{"id": "20604354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20604354", "title": "Aboriginal tracker", "text": "Aboriginal tracker\n\nIn the years following British settlement in Australia, aboriginal trackers or black trackers, as they became known, were enlisted by settlers to assist them in navigating their way through the Australian landscape. The trackers' hunter-gatherer lifestyle gave rise to excellent tracking skills which were advantageous to settlers in assisting them in finding food and water and locating missing persons, capturing bushrangers and violently dispersing other groups of aboriginals.\n\nThe first recorded employment of the services of Aboriginal trackers by Europeans in Australia was in 1791 when Watkin Tench utilised Eora men Colbee and Balloderry to find a way to the Hawkesbury River. In 1795, an aboriginal guide led Henry Hacking to the Cowpastures area where the lost First Fleet cattle were rediscovered. In 1802, Dharawal men Gogy, Budbury and Le Tonsure with Gandangara men Wooglemai and Bungin assisted Ensign Francis Barrallier in his explorations into the Blue Mountains. There are many other examples of explorers, squatters, military/paramilitary groups, naval missions, and police utilising aboriginal assistance in tracking down wanted persons. For instance, in 1834, near Fremantle, Western Australia, two trackers named Mogo and Mollydobbin tracked a missing five-year-old boy for over ten hours through the rough Australian bush. Another notable event occurred in 1864 when Duff children Jane (7), Isaac (9) and Frank (4) Duff, lost for nine days in Wimmera, were found by aboriginal tracker Dick-a-Dick.\n\nWhen asked how he tracked, Mitamirri, a famous tracker of the early 20th century, said \"I never bend down low, just walk slow round and round until I see more.\"\n\nIn 1845 Edward Stone Parker the Assistant Protector of Aborigines based at the Loddon Aboriginal Protectorate Station at Franklinford, wrote a letter to the Chief Protector reporting on the murder of a native at Joyce's Station (near Newstead). No witness could be found to the murder but the footprints of five men were tracked by the Jajowurrong to open country south of Mount Macedon (Sunbury region). The trackers there met with another man attached to the Loddon Protectorate Station who was on his return from Melbourne. He told the trackers he had met with the group they were tracking and was able to give a description of them.\n\nThe New South Wales Police Force actively engaged Aboriginal Trackers from 1850, attempting to secure Aboriginal Trackers for each of the police districts. By 1867, 52 Aboriginal Trackers were in the employ of the police at a daily rate of 2s 6d (approximately ₤3 17s 6d per month). In that year, at the height of Bushranger activity in the Goulburn Police District, three mounted Aboriginal Trackers of the New South Wales Police Force were actively involved in the capture of the Clarke brothers at Jinden near Braidwood. Aboriginal Tracker Sir Watkin Wynne (later Sergeant Major Sir Watkin Wynne), led the initial party of police from Fairfield under the command of Senior Constable Wright (later Sub-inspector Wright) to their location at Jinden. He was seriously injured during the capture and had an arm amputated. He was awarded ₤120 for his role in the capture. Two other trackers, who subsequently led other police to the scene, Trackers George Emmott (stationed at Ballalaba) and Thomas (stationed at Major's Creek), secured lesser awards of ₤7 10s. Tracker George Emmott had previously received an award of ₤30 for the arrest of Pat Connell another member of the gang.\n\nTwo members of the Queensland Native Mounted Police Force, Wannamutta and Werannabe, assisted in the capture of Ned Kelly at Glenrowan, Victoria in 1880. They had been promised ₤50 reward for Kelly's capture but descendants claimed the two were never paid. 101\n\nA number of Native Police organisations were established throughout Australia during the 19th Century which employed armed and mounted aboriginal trackers under white officers to carry out various duties, the foremost of these being punitive missions against aboriginals who resisted colonial expansion. During the goldrush era, they were also used to patrol goldfields and search for escaped prisoners. They were provided with uniforms, firearms, food rations and a rather dubious salary.\n\nIn 1879 the services of a group of Queensland black police were requested to help track the Kelly gang which were on the run from the Victorian police. Their use was agreed and a party of six native troopers, with a white officer (Sub-Inspector Stanhope O'Conner) reached Benalla about March 1879.\n\nIn 1941, the Northern Territory Special Reconnaissance Unit was established to patrol the North Australian coastline for Japanese landings and infiltration, and was primarily composed of Aboriginal soldiers. The 2/1st North Australia Observer Unit (\"Nackaroos\") performed a similar role, though Aboriginals were a minority in the unit, serving as labourers and trackers.\n\nIn the present day Australian Army, the Regional Force Surveillance Units can be seen as a spiritual descendant of the Tracker legacy.\n\nAboriginal trackers within the Queensland police force wore yellow epaulets to denote their role. By 2012, only one tracker remained, Lama Lama elder Barry Port. Queensland police do not expect another tracker to replace Port.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18638597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18638597", "title": "Alexander Lychnus", "text": "Alexander Lychnus\n\nAlexander (Gr. ) surnamed Lychnus (), was an ancient Greek rhetorician and poet. He was a native of Ephesus, from which he is sometimes called Alexander Ephesius, and must have lived shortly before the time of Strabo (i.e., the 1st century BC), who mentions him among the more recent Ephesian authors, and also states that he took a part in the political affairs of his native city. Strabo ascribes to him a history, and poems of a didactic kind, viz. one on astronomy and another on geography, in which he describes the great continents of the world, treating of each in a separate work or book, which, as we learn from other sources, bore the name of the continent of which it contained an account. What kind of history it was that Strabo alludes to, is uncertain. The so-called Aurelius Victor quotes the first book of a history of the Marsic War by Alexander the Ephesian; but this authority is considered doubtful.\n\nSome writers have supposed that this Alexander is the author of the history of the succession of Greek philosophers (), which is often referred to by Diogenes Laërtius; but this work belonged probably to Alexander Polyhistor. His geographical poem, of which several fragments are still extant, is frequently referred to by Stephanus of Byzantium and others. Of his astronomical poem a fragment is still extant, which however has also been attributed to Alexander Aetolus, particularly by the scholars Thomas Gale and Johann Gottlob Schneider. It is highly probable that Cicero is speaking of Alexander Lychnus when he mentions an Alexander whom he says is a bad poet, and a careless writer, but whose poems yet possess some factual information. The Greek text of his poem has been edited with a commentary by Christophe Cusset.\n"}
{"id": "50617808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50617808", "title": "Amy Bess Miller", "text": "Amy Bess Miller\n\nAmy Bess Williams Miller (May 4, 1912 – February 23, 2003) was an American historian, preservationist, trustee, and civic leader from the cities of Worcester and Pittsfield, Massachusetts. Best known for leading the effort to preserve Hancock Shaker Village on the border of Pittsfield and Hancock, Massachusetts and establish a museum there, she was a major scholar of Shaker history, society, and artifacts. In addition to serving as the Hancock museum's first president, she was president of the Berkshire Athenaeum, member of the Massachusetts Board of Library Commissioners and American Antiquarian Society, and trustee of Berkshire Medical Center, the Berkshire Museum, Miss Hall's School, the Massachusetts Audubon Society, and the Shaker Museum and Library. Miller's published works all deal with Shaker history and society. She wrote four books and co-edited a fifth, contributed an article to \"The Herbarist\", and contributed to numerous exhibits.\n\nAmy Bess Williams was born on May 4, 1912, in El Paso, Texas to Dr. Frederick R. Williams and Elizabeth Avery Taft Williams. At the age of five, her family relocated to Worcester, Massachusetts. During the 1920s, Williams gained a reputation as a socialite, and often visited events held by the American Antiquarian Society. She studied at the preparatory schools Bancroft School in Worcester and Miss Hall's School in Pittsfield, and then attended the Sorbonne, where she specialized in art history and architecture. On October 14, 1933, Williams married Lawrence K. \"Pete\" Miller, who was then editor and publisher of his family's newspaper \"The Berkshire Eagle\". Among the wedding presents the couple received was a table made by the Shakers, an American Christian sect. This gift is credited with sparking Miller's lifelong interest in the Shakers.\n\nIn 1944, Miller became president of the Berkshire Athenaeum, a public library in Pittsfield, holding that position until 1979. In the late 1950s she led a project to preserve what remained of the Hancock Village, as the few remaining Shakers there planned to leave. The project resulted in the transformation of the Village into a museum, which opened in 1960. Miller served as president of this museum until 1990. From 1964 to 1970, Miller served on the Massachusetts Board of Library Commissioners, and, in 1972, Miller successfully advocated for the construction of a new library building to house the Berkshire Athenaeum collection. In 1976, she was inducted into the American Antiquarian Society, to which she contributed regularly. She additionally served as a long-term trustee of Berkshire Medical Center, the Berkshire Museum, Miss Hall's School, the Massachusetts Audubon Society, and the Shaker Museum and Library. She was also the first woman president of the Pittsfield Community Chest.\n\nMiller's husband Lawrence died in 1991. The couple had four children: a daughter Margo and sons Kelton II, Michael, and Mark. Michael and Mark published and edited, respectively, the \"Eagle\" until it was sold to MediaNews Group in 1995. Miller died on February 23, 2003, and a memorial service was held at Hancock Shaker Village. Her collection of Shaker furniture was donated to the museum.\n\nMiller was awarded honorary degrees from Williams College, North Adams State College, Rhode Island School of Design, and Muhlenberg College. She also received a national preservation award from the Garden Club of America.\n\n"}
{"id": "21953198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21953198", "title": "Andrei Nakov", "text": "Andrei Nakov\n\nAndrei Nakov (), born in 1941 in Sofia, Bulgaria, is a French-Bulgarian art historian engaged principally in research on Russian non-objective art, Cubo-futurism, Dada and Constructivism, where his work as a precursor in these areas gained him an authoritative reputation.\nHe has published numerous theoretical studies, monographs and exhibition catalogues on the Russian avant-garde, Futurism, Dada, Constructivism, contemporary art and European abstract art.\nSince the publication of his critical edition of the writings of Malewicz (Malevich) by Champ Libre, Paris 1975, he has engaged in research on the work of this artist and has published the four-volume \"Kazimir Malewicz le peintre absolu\" in April 2007 (Thalia Édition, Paris). Part of this work's documentation comprising the catalogue raisonné of the artist's plastic work was published in 2002 (Éditions Adam Biro, Paris) under the title \"Kazimir Malewicz, Catalogue raisonné\". In January 2016, for the fifth consecutive year Andrei Nakov gets Moral Rights over the work of Alexandra Exter.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51343553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51343553", "title": "Anigouran", "text": "Anigouran\n\nAnigouran or Aligouran, or Arigullan, is a character in the mythology of the Tuaregs. It appears in many stories transmitted by their oral tradition. Anigouran is characterized by his exceptional intelligence and his taste for riddles. He is credited with the invention of Tifinagh \"the Tuareg alphabet\", and entries using this alphabet engraved on the rocks of the Aïr Mountains; it also made him the mythical inventor of several games.\n\nThe stories devoted to Anigouran depict adventures in which his intelligence and cunning allow him to get out of difficult situations. They also portray his rivalry with his Adelasegh nephew, whose great intelligence causes jealousy of Anigouran, who tries to kill him several times, but eventually reconciled with him. At a time when Adelasegh and his sister were captured by bandits and where Anigouran finally decided to reconcile with his nephew, Anigouran can not trace them, So he engraved on the desert rocks a coded tifinagh messages that only Adelasegh and his sister can decode, to show them the way back to his camp. This story thus provides a mythological explanation of the current presence of Tifinagh inscriptions in the desert.\n"}
{"id": "51496822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51496822", "title": "Ann Wheeler Harnwell Ashmead", "text": "Ann Wheeler Harnwell Ashmead\n\nAnn Wheeler Harnwell Ashmead is an American female archaeologist (born Princeton, New Jersey, October 7, 1929) who has co-authored comprehensive catalogues with the archaeologist Etruscologist Kyle Meredith Phillips, Jr. about the Greek Vase Painting collections of Bryn Mawr College (1971) and the Rhode Island School of Design (1976). She has also written the main published catalogue for the Antiquities Collection of Haverford College (1999). and many articles on Greek Vases.\n\nDuring World War II Ashmead moved with her family from the East Coast to the West to La Jolla, California, while her father Gaylord P. Harnwell, a Professor of Physics at the University of Pennsylvania, was directing the U. S. Navy Radio and Sound Laboratory at the Naval Base Point Loma in San Diego and developing FM Sonar for submarines. During the war, she attended The Bishop's School (La Jolla) and afterwards, upon returning East, she graduated from Lower Merion High School. She received her archaeology education at Bryn Mawr College, BA (1952, Honors, Magna Cum Laude) MA (1954); PhD (1959) in Classical Archaeology with Rhys Carpenter. Her thesis was on the Onesimos (vase painter). At Bryn Mawr College professional colleagues included Brunilde Sismondo Ridgway, Machteld Mellink and Kyle Phillips. Awarded an Ella Riegel Fellowship, Ashmead worked with Lucy Talcott in 1956-1957 at the American School of Classical Studies at Athens on the excavations at the Ancient Agora of Athens publishing on fragments by the Kleophrades Painter under the Directorship of Homer Thompson with his wife also an archaeologist Dorothy Burr Thompson. Ashmead then taught at Bryn Mawr College and was the Curator for Ella Riegel Museum. She became a Research Associate with the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology having written and compiled its Corpus vasorum antiquorum with the late Kyle Phillips.\n\nOther colleagues and circle of archaeologists and classicists include Richmond Lattimore, Richard Green, Phyllis Pray Bober, Ingrid Edlund Berry, Theresa Howard Carter, Jess Jeanny Canby, Crawford Hallock Greenewalt, Jr., Adrienne Mayor, Jocelyn Penny Small and Dyfri Williams.\n\nAnn Ashmead is a classical Greek vase painting expert, the leading authority on depictions of cats, particularly the Cheetah, on 5th Century Red-Figured Greek Vases. Ashmead has also introduced technical sections in her catalogues, through the use of x-rays, including references to kiln stacking marks, under-painting and preliminary sketches, fingerprints, and fuller inscriptions, and details garnered through technological examination, before it became a more commonly accepted practice in writing about Greek Vases.\n\n\nShe is the great-great-granddaughter of Nathaniel Wheeler one of the American inventors of the sewing machine and a descendant of Jonathan Edwards (theologian) President of Princeton and cousin to Marion Edwards Park President of Bryn Mawr College who also received all three degrees at the College and worked in the Agora. Ashmead was the first woman in her immediate family of notable American educators including college/university Presidents to receive a PhD. For most of Ashmead's career she was married to the Haverford College professor and writer John Ashmead.\n"}
{"id": "49645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49645", "title": "August Strindberg", "text": "August Strindberg\n\nJohan August Strindberg (; ; 22 January 184914 May 1912) was a Swedish playwright, novelist, poet, essayist and painter. A prolific writer who often drew directly on his personal experience, Strindberg's career spanned four decades, during which time he wrote over sixty plays and more than thirty works of fiction, autobiography, history, cultural analysis, and politics. A bold experimenter and iconoclast throughout, he explored a wide range of dramatic methods and purposes, from naturalistic tragedy, monodrama, and history plays, to his anticipations of expressionist and surrealist dramatic techniques. From his earliest work, Strindberg developed innovative forms of dramatic action, language, and visual composition. He is considered the \"father\" of modern Swedish literature and his \"The Red Room\" (1879) has frequently been described as the first modern Swedish novel.\n\nIn Sweden, Strindberg is known as an essayist, painter, poet, and especially as a novelist and playwright, but in other countries he is known mostly as a playwright.\n\nThe Royal Theatre rejected his first major play, \"Master Olof\", in 1872; it was not until 1881, at the age of thirty-two, that its première at the New Theatre gave him his theatrical breakthrough. In his plays \"The Father\" (1887), \"Miss Julie\" (1888), and \"Creditors\" (1889), he created naturalistic dramas that – building on the established accomplishments of Henrik Ibsen's prose problem plays while rejecting their use of the structure of the well-made play – responded to the call-to-arms of 's manifesto \"Naturalism in the Theatre\" (1881) and the example set by 's newly established (opened 1887). In \"Miss Julie\", characterisation replaces plot as the predominant dramatic element (in contrast to melodrama and the well-made play) and the determining role of heredity and the environment on the \"vacillating, disintegrated\" characters is emphasized. Strindberg modeled his short-lived Scandinavian Experimental Theatre (1889) in Copenhagen on Antoine's theatre and he explored the theory of Naturalism in his essays \"On Psychic Murder\" (1887), \"On Modern Drama and the Modern Theatre\" (1889), and a preface to \"Miss Julie\", the last of which is probably the best-known statement of the principles of the theatrical movement.\n\nDuring the 1890s he spent significant time abroad engaged in scientific experiments and studies of the occult. A series of psychotic attacks between 1894 and 1896 (referred to as his \"\"Inferno\" crisis\") led to his hospitalization and return to Sweden. Under the influence of the ideas of Emanuel Swedenborg, he resolved after his recovery to become \"the Zola of the Occult\". In 1898 he returned to play-writing with \"To Damascus\", which, like \"The Great Highway\" (1909), is a dream-play of spiritual pilgrimage. His \"A Dream Play\" (1902) – with its radical attempt to dramatize the workings of the unconscious by means of an abolition of conventional dramatic time and space and the splitting, doubling, merging, and multiplication of its characters – was an important precursor to both expressionism and surrealism. He also returned to writing historical drama, the genre with which he had begun his play-writing career. He helped to run the Intimate Theatre from 1907, a small-scale theatre, modeled on Max Reinhardt's , that staged his chamber plays (such as \"The Ghost Sonata\").\n\nStrindberg was born on 22 January 1849 in Stockholm, Sweden, the third surviving son of Carl Oscar Strindberg (a shipping agent) and Eleonora Ulrika Norling (a serving-maid). In his autobiographical novel \"The Son of a Servant\", Strindberg describes a childhood affected by \"emotional insecurity, poverty, religious fanaticism and neglect\". When he was seven, Strindberg moved to Norrtullsgatan on the northern, almost-rural periphery of the city. A year later the family moved near to Sabbatsberg, where they stayed for three years before returning to Norrtullsgatan. He attended a harsh school in Klara for four years, an experience that haunted him in his adult life. He was moved to the school in Jakob in 1860, which he found far more pleasant, though he remained there for only a year. In the autumn of 1861, he was moved to the Stockholm Lyceum, a progressive private school for middle-class boys, where he remained for six years. As a child he had a keen interest in natural science, photography, and religion (following his mother's Pietism). His mother, Strindberg recalled later with bitterness, always resented her son's intelligence. She died when he was thirteen, and although his grief lasted for only three months, in later life he came to feel a sense of loss and longing for an idealized maternal figure. Less than a year after her death, his father married the children's governess, Emilia Charlotta Pettersson. According to his sisters, Strindberg came to regard them as his worst enemies. He passed his graduation exam in May 1867 and enrolled at the Uppsala University, where he began on 13 September.\n\nStrindberg spent the next few years in Uppsala and Stockholm, alternately studying for exams and trying his hand at non-academic pursuits. As a young student, Strindberg also worked as an assistant in a pharmacy in the university town of Lund in southern Sweden. He supported himself in between studies as a substitute primary-school teacher and as a tutor for the children of two well-known physicians in Stockholm. He first left Uppsala in 1868 to work as a schoolteacher, but then studied chemistry for some time at the Institute of Technology in Stockholm in preparation for medical studies, later working as a private tutor before becoming an extra at the Royal Theatre in Stockholm. In May 1869, he failed his qualifying chemistry exam which in turn made him uninterested in schooling.\n\nStrindberg returned to Uppsala University in January 1870 to study aesthetics and modern languages and to work on a number of plays. It was at this time that he first learnt about the ideas of Charles Darwin. He co-founded the Rune Society, a small literary club whose members adopted pseudonyms taken from runes of the ancient Teutonic alphabet – Strindberg called himself Frö (Seed), after the god of fertility. After abandoning a draft of a play about Eric XIV of Sweden halfway through in the face of criticism from the Rune Society, on 30 March he completed a one-act comedy in verse called \"In Rome\" about Bertel Thorvaldsen, which he had begun the previous autumn. The play was accepted by the Royal Theatre, where it premièred on 13 September 1870. As he watched it performed, he realised that it was not good and felt like drowning himself, though the reviews published the following day were generally favourable. That year he also first read works of Søren Kierkegaard and Georg Brandes, both of whom influenced him.\nTaking his cue from William Shakespeare, he began to use colloquial and realistic speech in his historical dramas, which challenged the convention that they should be written in stately verse. During the Christmas holiday of 1870–71, he re-wrote a historical tragedy, \"Sven the Sacrificer\", as a one-act play in prose called \"The Outlaw\". Depressed by Uppsala, he stayed in Stockholm, returning to the university in April to pass an exam in Latin and in June to defend his thesis on Adam Gottlob Oehlenschläger's Romantic tragedy \"Earl Haakon\" (1802). Following further revision in the summer, \"The Outlaw\" opened at the Royal Theatre on 16 October 1871. Despite hostile reviews, the play earned him an audience with King Charles XV, who supported his studies with a payment of 200 riksdaler. Towards the end of the year Strindberg completed a first draft of his first major work, a play about Olaus Petri called \"Master Olof\". In September 1872, the Royal Theatre rejected it, leading to decades of rewrites, bitterness, and a contempt for official institutions. Returning to the university for what would be his final term in the spring, he left on 2 March 1872, without graduating. In \"Town and Gown\" (1877), a collection of short stories describing student life, he ridiculed Uppsala and its professors.\n\nStrindberg embarked on his career as a journalist and critic for newspapers in Stockholm. He was particularly excited at this time by Henry Thomas Buckle's \"History of Civilization\" and the first volume of Georg Brandes' \"Main Currents of Nineteenth-Century Literature\". From December 1874, Strindberg worked for eight years as an assistant librarian at the Royal Library. That same month, Strindberg offered \"Master Olof\" to Edvard Stjernström (the director of the newly built New Theatre in Stockholm), but it was rejected. He socialised with writers, painters, journalists, and other librarians; they often met in the Red Room in Bern's Restaurant.\n\nEarly in the summer of 1875, he met Siri von Essen, a 24-year-old aspiring actress who, by virtue of her husband, was a baroness – he became infatuated with her. Strindberg described himself as a \"failed author\" at this time: \"I feel like a deaf-mute,\" he wrote, \"as I cannot speak and am not permitted to write; sometimes I stand in the middle of my room that seems like a prison cell, and then I want to scream so that walls and ceilings would fly apart, and I have so much to scream about, and therefore I remain silent.\" As a result of an argument in January 1876 concerning the inheritance of the family firm, Strindberg's relationship with his father was terminated (he did not attend his funeral in February 1883). From the beginning of 1876, Strindberg and Siri began to meet in secret. Following a successful audition that December, Siri became an actress at the Royal Theatre. They married a year later, on 30 December 1877; Siri was seven months pregnant at the time. Their first child was born prematurely on 21 January 1878 and died two days later. On 9 January 1879, Strindberg was declared bankrupt. In November 1879, his novel \"The Red Room\" was published. A satire of Stockholm society, it has frequently been described as the first modern Swedish novel. While receiving mixed reviews in Sweden, it was acclaimed in Denmark, where Strindberg was hailed as a genius. As a result of \"The Red Room\", he had become famous throughout Scandinavia. Edvard Brandes wrote that the novel \"makes the reader want to join the fight against hypocrisy and reaction.\" In his response to Brandes, Strindberg explained that:\n\nStrindberg and Siri's daughter Karin was born on 26 February 1880. Buoyant from the reception of \"The Red Room\", Strindberg swiftly completed \"The Secret of the Guild\", an historical drama set in Uppsala at the beginning of the 15th century about the conflict between two masons over the completion of the city cathedral, which opened at the Royal Theatre on 3 May 1880 (his first première in nine years); Siri played Margaretha. That spring he formed a friendship with the painter Carl Larsson. A collected edition of all of Strindberg's previous writings was published under the title \"Spring Harvest\". From 1881, at the invitation of Edvard Brandes, Strindberg began to contribute articles to the \"Morgenbladet\", a Copenhagen daily newspaper. In April he began work on \"The Swedish People\", a four-part cultural history of Sweden written as a series of depictions of ordinary people's lives from the 9th century onwards, which he undertook mainly for financial reasons and which absorbed him for the next year; Larsson provided illustrations. At Strindberg's insistence, Siri resigned from the Royal Theatre in the spring, having become pregnant again. Their second daughter, Greta, was born on 9 June 1881, while they were staying on the island of Kymmendö. That month, a collection of essays from the past ten years, \"Studies in Cultural History\", was published. Ludvig Josephson (the new artistic director of Stockholm's New Theatre) agreed to stage \"Master Olof\", eventually opting for the prose version – the five-hour-long production opened on 30 December 1881 under the direction of August Lindberg to favourable reviews. While this production of \"Master Olaf\" was his breakthrough in the theatre, Strindberg's five-act fairy-tale play \"Lucky Peter's Journey\", which opened on 22 December 1883, brought him his first significant success, although he dismissed it as a potboiler. In March 1882 he wrote in a letter to Josephson: \"My interest in the theatre, I must frankly state, has but one focus and one goal – my wife's career as an actress\"; Josephson duly cast her in two roles the following season.\n\nHaving returned to Kymmendö during the summer of 1882, Strindberg wrote a collection of anti-establishment short stories, \"The New Kingdom\". While there, to provide a lead role for his wife and as a reply to Henrik Ibsen's \"A Doll's House\" (1879), he also wrote \"Sir Bengt's Wife\", which opened on 25 November 1882 at the New Theatre. He moved to Grez-sur-Loing, just south of Paris, France, where Larsson was staying. He then moved to Paris, which they found noisy and polluted. Income earned from \"Lucky Peter's Journey\" enabled him to move to Switzerland in 1883. He resided in Ouchy, where he stayed for some years. On 3 April 1884, Siri gave birth to their son, Hans.\nIn 1884 Strindberg wrote a collection of short stories, \"Getting Married\", that presented women in an egalitarian light and for which he was tried for and acquitted of blasphemy in Sweden. Two groups \"led by influential members of the upper classes, supported by the right-wing press\" probably instigated the prosecution; at the time, most people in Stockholm thought that Queen Sophia was behind it. By the end of that year Strindberg was in a despondent mood: \"My view now is,\" he wrote, \"everything is shit. No way out. The skein is too tangled to be unravelled. It can only be sheared. The building is too solid to be pulled down. It can only be blown up.\" In May 1885 he wrote: \"I am on my way to becoming an atheist.\" In the wake of the publication of \"Getting Married\", he began to correspond with Émile Zola. During the summer he completed a sequel volume of stories, though some were quite different in tone from those of the first. Another collection of stories, \"Utopias in Reality\", was published in September 1885, though it was not well received.\n\nIn 1885, they moved back to Paris. In September 1887 he began to write a novel in French about his relationship with Siri von Essen called \"The Defence of a Fool\". In 1887, they moved to Issigatsbühl, near Lindau by Lake Constance. His next play, \"Comrades\" (1886), was his first in a contemporary setting. After the trial he evaluated his religious beliefs, and concluded that he needed to leave Lutheranism, though he had been Lutheran since childhood; and after briefly being a deist, he became an atheist. He needed a credo and he used Jean-Jacques Rousseau nature worshiping, which he had studied while a student, as one. His works \"The People of Hemsö\" (1887) and \"Among French Peasants\" (1889) were influenced by his study of Rousseau. He then moved to Germany, where he fell in love with Chancellor Otto von Bismarck's Prussia status of the officer corps. After that, he grew very critical of Rousseau and turned to Friedrich Nietzsche's philosophies, which emphasized the male intellect. Nietzsche's influence can be seen in \"The Defence of a Fool\" (1893), \"Pariah\" (1889), \"Creditors\" (1889), and \"By the Open Sea\" (1890).\n\nAnother change in his life after the trial is that Strindberg decided he wanted a scientific life instead of a literary one, and began to write about non-literary subjects. When he was 37, he began \"The Son of a Servant\", a four-part autobiography. The first part ends in 1867, the year he left home for Uppsala. Part two describes his youth up to 1872. Part three, or \"The Red Room\", describes his years as a poet and journalist; it ends with his meeting Siri von Essen. Part four, which dealt with the years from 1877 to 1886, was banned by his publishers and was not published until after his death. The three missing years, 1875–1877, were the time when Strindberg was wooing von Essen and their marriage; entitled \"He and She\", this portion of his autobiography was not printed until 1919, after his death. It contains the love letters between the two during that period.\n\nIn the later half of the 1880s Strindberg discovered Naturalism. After completing \"The Father\" in a matter of weeks, he sent a copy to Émile Zola for his approval, though Zola's reaction was lukewarm. The drama revolves around the conflict between the Captain, a father, husband, and scientist, and his wife, Laura, over the education of their only child, a fourteen-year-old daughter named Berta. Through unscrupulous means, Laura gets the Captain to doubt his fatherhood until he suffers a mental and physical collapse. While writing \"The Father\", Strindberg himself was experiencing marital problems and doubted the paternity of his children. He also suspected that Ibsen had based Hjalmar Ekdal in \"The Wild Duck\" (1884) on Strindberg because he felt that Ibsen viewed him as a weak and pathetic husband; he reworked the situation of Ibsen's play into a warfare between the two sexes. From November 1887 to April 1889, Strindberg stayed in Copenhagen. While there he had several opportunities to meet with both Georg Brandes and his brother Edvard Brandes. Georg helped him put on \"The Father\", which had its première on 14 November 1887 at the Casino Theatre in Copenhagen. It enjoyed a successful run for eleven days after which it toured the Danish provinces.\nBefore writing \"Creditors\", Strindberg completed one of his most famous pieces, \"Miss Julie\". He wrote the play with a Parisian stage in mind, in particular the Théâtre Libre, founded in 1887 by Andre Antoine. In the play he used Charles Darwin's theory of survival of the fittest and dramatized a doomed sexual encounter that crosses the division of social classes. It is believed that this play was inspired by the marriage of Strindberg, the son of a servant, to an aristocratic woman.\n\nIn the essay \"On Psychic Murder\" (1887), he referred to the psychological theories of the Nancy School, which advocated the use of hypnosis. Strindberg developed a theory that sexual warfare was not motivated by carnal desire but by relentless human will. The winner was the one who had the strongest and most unscrupulous mind, someone who, like a hypnotist, could coerce a more impressionable psyche into submission. His view on psychological power struggles may be seen in works such as \"Creditors\" (1889), \"The Stronger\" (1889), and \"Pariah\" (1889).\n\nIn 1888, after a separation and reconciliation with Siri von Essen, he founded the Scandinavian Experimental Theatre in Copenhagen, where Siri became manager. He asked writers to send him scripts, which he received from Herman Bang, Gustav Wied and Nathalia Larsen. Less than a year later, with the theatre and reconciliation short lived, he moved back to Sweden while Siri moved back to her native Finland with the children. While there, he rode out the final phase of the divorce and later used this agonizing ordeal for the basis of \"The Bond and the Link\" (1893). Strindberg also became interested in short drama, called Quart d'heure. He was inspired by writers such as Gustave Guiche and Henri de Lavedan. His notable contribution was \"The Stronger\" (1889). As a result of the failure of the Scandinavian Experimental Theatre, Strindberg did not work as a playwright for three years. In 1889, he published an essay entitled \"On Modern Drama and the Modern Theatre\", in which he disassociated himself from naturalism, arguing that it was petty and unimaginative realism. His sympathy for Nietzsche's philosophy and atheism in general was also on the wane. He entered the period of his \"Inferno crisis,\" in which he had psychological and religious upheavals that influenced his later works.\n\nAugust Strindberg's Inferno is his personal account of sinking deeper into some kind of madness, typified by visions and paranoia. In \"Strindberg och alkoholen\" (1985), James Spens discusses Strindberg's drinking habits, including his liking for absinthe and its possible implications for Strindberg's mental health during the inferno period.\n\nAfter his disenchantment with naturalism, Strindberg had a growing interest in transcendental matters. Symbolism was just beginning at this time. Verner von Heidenstam and Ola Hanson had dismissed naturalism as \"shoemaker realism\" that rendered human experience in simplistic terms. This is believed to have stalled Strindberg's creativity, and Strindberg insisted that he was in a rivalry and forced to defend naturalism, even though he had exhausted its literary potential. These works include: \"Debit and Credit\" (1892), \"Facing Death\" (1892), \"Motherly Love\" (1892), and \"The First Warning\" (1893). His play \"The Keys of Heaven\" (1892) was inspired by the loss of his children in his divorce. He also completed one of his few comedies, \"Playing with Fire\" (1893), and the first two parts of his post-inferno trilogy \"To Damascus\" (1898–1904).\n\nIn 1892, he experienced writer's block, which led to a drastic reduction in his income. Depression followed as he was unable to meet his financial obligations and to support his children and former wife. A fund was set up through an appeal in a German magazine. This money allowed him to leave Sweden and he joined artistic circles in Berlin. Otto Brahm's Freie Bühne theatre premiered some of his famous works in Germany, including \"The Father\", \"Miss Julie\", and \"Creditors\".\n\nSimilar to twenty years earlier when he frequented The Red Room, he now went to the German tavern The Black Porker. Here he met a diverse group of artists from Scandinavia, Poland, and Germany. His attention turned to Frida Uhl, who was twenty-three years younger than Strindberg. They were married in 1893. Less than a year later, their daughter Kerstin was born and the couple separated, though their marriage was not officially dissolved until 1897. Frida's family, in particular her mother, who was a devout Catholic, had an important influence on Strindberg, and in an 1894 letter he declared \"I feel the hand of our Lord resting over me.\"\n\nSome critics think that Strindberg suffered from severe paranoia in the mid-1890s, and perhaps that he temporarily experienced insanity. Others, including Evert Sprinchorn and Olof Lagercrantz, believed that he intentionally turned himself into his own guinea pig by doing psychological and drug-induced self-experimentation. He wrote on subjects such as botany, chemistry, and optics before returning to literature with the publication of his edited journals \"Legends\" and \"Jacob Wrestling\" (both 1898), where he noted the impact Emanuel Swedenborg had on his current work.\n\n\"The Powers\" were central to Strindberg's later work. He said that \"the Powers\" were an outside force that had caused him his physical and mental suffering because they were acting in retribution to humankind for their wrongdoings. As William Blake, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Honoré de Balzac, and William Butler Yeats had been, he was drawn to Swedenborg's mystical visions, with their depictions of spiritual landscape and Christian morality. Strindberg believed for the rest of his life that the relationship between the transcendental and the real world was described by a series of \"correspondences\" and that everyday events were really messages from above of which only the enlightened could make sense. He also felt that he was chosen by Providence to atone for the moral decay of others and that his tribulations were payback for misdeeds earlier in his life.\n\nIn 1899, he returned to Sweden, following a successful production of \"Master Olaf\" in 1897 (which was re-staged in 1899 to mark Strindberg's fiftieth birthday). He had the desire to become the national poet and felt that historical dramas were the way to attain that status. Though Strindberg claimed that he was writing \"realistically,\" he freely altered past events and biographical information, and telescoped chronology. Works included the so-called Vasa Trilogy: \"The Saga of the Folkungs\" (1899), \"Gustavus Vasa\" (1899), and \"Erik XIV\" (1899).\n\nStrindberg was pivotal in the creation of chamber plays. Max Reinhardt was a big supporter of his, staging some of his plays at the Kleines Theatre in 1902 (including \"The Bond\", \"The Stronger\", and \"The Outlaw\"). Once Otto Brahm relinquished his role as head as of the Deutsches Theatre, Reinhardt took over and produced Strindberg's plays.\n\nIn 1903, Strindberg planned to write a grand cycle of plays based on world history, but the idea soon faded. He had completed short plays about Martin Luther, Plato, Moses, Jesus Christ, and Socrates. He wrote another historical drama in 1908 after the Royal Theatre convinced him to put on a new play for its sixtieth birthday. He wrote \"The Last of the Knights\" (1908), \"Earl Birger of Bjalbo\" (1909), and \"The Regents\" (1909).\nHis other works, such as \"Days of Loneliness\" (1903), \"The Roofing Ceremony\" (1907), and \"The Scapegoat\" (1907), and the novels \"The Gothic Rooms\" (1904) and \"Black Banners Genre Scenes from the Turn of the Century\", (1907) have been viewed as precursors to Marcel Proust and Franz Kafka.\n\nAugust Falck, an actor, wanted to put on a production of \"Miss Julie\" and wrote to Strindberg for permission. In September 1906 he staged the first Swedish production of \"Miss Julie\". August Palme, Strindberg's friend, played Jean and Manda Bjorling played Julie.\n\nIn 1909, Strindberg thought he might get the Nobel Prize in Literature, but instead lost to Selma Lagerlöf, the first woman and first Swede to win the award. The leader of the Social Democrat Youth Alliance started a fund-raiser for a special award. Nathan Söderblom was noted as a donor, yet he was criticized by the conservative party. In total there was 45,000 Swedish crowns collected, by more than 20,000 donors, most of whom were workers. Albert Bonniers förlag paid him 200,000 Swedish crowns for his complete works. He invited his first three children to Stockholm and divided the money into five shares, one for each child, one for Siri, and the other for himself.\n\nHe founded The Intimate Theatre in Stockholm in 1907. His theatre was modeled after Max Reinhart's Kammerspiel Haus. Strindberg had the intention of the theatre being used for his plays and his plays only, he also had the intention of the theatre being used mainly to perform chamber plays. For the theatre's opening, Strindberg wrote four chamber plays: \"Thunder in the Air, The Burned Site, The Ghost Sonata\", and \"The Pelican\". Strindberg had very specific ideas about how the theatre would be opened and operated. He drafted a series of rules for his theatre in a letter to August Falck: 1. No liquor. 2. No Sunday performances. 3. Short performances without intermissions. 4. No calls. 5. Only 160 seats in the auditorium. 6. No prompter. No orchestra, only music on stage. 7. The text will be sold at the box office and in the lobby. 8. Summer performances. Falck helped to design the auditorium, which was decorated in a deep-green tone. The ceiling lighting was a yellow silk cover which created an effect of mild daylight. The floor was covered with a deep-green carpet, and the auditorium was decorated by six ultra modern columns with elaborate up-to-date capitals. Instead of the usual restaurant Strindberg offered a lounge for the ladies and a smoking-room for the gentlemen. The stage was unusually small, only 6 by 9 metres. The small stage and minimal number of seats was meant to give the audience a greater feeling of involvement in the work. Unlike most theatres at this time, the Intima Teater was not a place in which people could come to socialize. By setting up his rules and creating an intimate atmosphere, Strindberg was able to demand the audience's focus. When the theatre opened in 1907 with a performance of \"The Pelican\" it was a rather large hit. Strindberg used a minimal technique, as was his way, by only having a back drop and some sea shells on the stage for scene design and props. Strindberg was much more concerned with the actors portraying the written word than the stage looking pretty. The theatre ran into a financial difficulty in February 1908 and Falck had to borrow money from Prince Eugen, Duke of Närke, who attended the première of \"The Pelican\". The theatre eventually went bankrupt in 1910, but did not close until Strindberg's death in 1912. The newspapers wrote about the theatre until its death; however, Strindberg felt it was entirely unsuccessful. He felt that he never had the opportunity to successfully stage a play the way he wanted to – which was the purpose of the theatre in the first place.\n\nStrindberg died shortly after the first of his plays was staged in the United States—\"The Father\" opened on 9 April 1912 at the Berkeley Theatre in New York, in a translation by Edith and Wärner Oland.\n\nDuring Christmas 1911, Strindberg became sick with pneumonia and he never recovered completely. He also started to suffer from a stomach cancer. The last weeks of his life were painful, and the daily papers in Stockholm reported on his health in every edition. He received many letters and telegrams from admirers across the country. He died on 14 May 1912 at the age of 63.\n\nStrindberg was interred at Norra begravningsplatsen in Stockholm. He had given strict instructions concerning his funeral and how his body should be treated after death: only members of his immediate family were allowed to view his body, there would be no obduction, no photographs were taken, and no death mask was made. Strindberg had also requested that his funeral should take place as soon as possible after his death to avoid crowds of onlookers. However, the workers' organisations requested that the funeral should take place on a Sunday to make it possible for working men to pay their respects, and the funeral was postponed for five days, until Sunday, 19 May. According to Strindberg's last wish, the funeral procession was to start at 8am, again to avoid crowds, but large groups of people were nevertheless waiting outside his home as well as at the cemetery, as early as 7am. A short service was conducted by Nathan Söderblom by the bier in Strindberg's home, in the presence of three of Strindberg's children and his housekeeper, after which the coffin was taken outside for the funeral procession. The procession was followed by groups of students, workers, and members of Parliament, and it was estimated that up to 60,000 people lined the streets. King Gustaf V sent a wreath for the bier.\n\nTennessee Williams, Edward Albee, Maxim Gorky, John Osborne, and Ingmar Bergman are among the many artists who have cited Strindberg as an influence. Eugene O'Neill, upon receiving the Nobel Prize in Literature, dedicated much of his acceptance speech to describing Strindberg's influence on his work, and referred to him as \"that greatest genius of all modern dramatists.\"\n\nA multi-faceted author, Strindberg was often extreme. His novel \"The Red Room\" (1879) made him famous. His early plays belong to the Naturalistic movement. His works from this time are often compared with the Norwegian playwright Henrik Ibsen. Strindberg's best-known play from this period is \"Miss Julie\". Among his most widely read works is the novel \"The People of Hemsö\".\nStrindberg wanted to attain what he called \"greater Naturalism.\" He disliked the expository character backgrounds that characterise the work of Henrik Ibsen and rejected the convention of a dramatic \"slice of life\" because he felt that the resulting plays were mundane and uninteresting. Strindberg felt that true naturalism was a psychological \"battle of brains\": two people who hate each other in the immediate moment and strive to drive the other to doom is the type of mental hostility that Strindberg strove to describe. He intended his plays to be impartial and objective, citing a desire to make literature akin to a science.\n\nFollowing the inner turmoil that he experienced during the \"Inferno crisis,\" he wrote an important book in French, \"Inferno\" (1896–7) in which he dramatised his experiences. He also exchanged a few cryptic letters with Friedrich Nietzsche.\n\nStrindberg subsequently ended his association with Naturalism and began to produce works informed by Symbolism. He is considered one of the pioneers of the modern European stage and Expressionism. \"The Dance of Death\", \"A Dream Play\", and \"The Ghost Sonata\" are well-known plays from this period.\n\nHis most famous and produced plays are \"Master Olof\", \"Miss Julie\", and \"The Father\".\n\nThe Swedish Composer Ture Rangström dedicated his first Symphony, which was finished in 1914, to \"August Strindberg in memoriam\".\n\nInfluenced by the history of the Paris Commune, during 1871, young Strindberg embraced the view, that politics is a conflict between the upper and lower classes. He was admired by many as a far-left writer. He was a socialist (or perhaps more of an anarchist, meaning a libertarian socialist, which he himself claimed on at least one occasion). Strindberg's political opinions nevertheless changed considerably within this category over the years, and he was never primarily a political writer. Nor did he often campaign for any one issue, preferring instead to scorn his enemies manifesto-style – the military, the church, the monarchy, the politicians, the stingy publishers, the incompetent reviewers, the narrow-minded, the idiots – and he was not loyal to any party or ideology. Many of his works, however, had at least some politics and sometimes an abundance of it. They often displayed that life and the prevailing system were profoundly unjust and injurious to ordinary citizens.\n\nThe changing nature of his political positions shows in his changing stance on the women's rights issue. Early on, Strindberg was sympathetic to women of 19th-century Sweden, calling for women's suffrage as early as 1884. However, during other periods he had strongly misogynistic opinions, calling for lawmakers to reconsider the emancipation of these \"half-apes ... mad ... criminal, instinctively evil animals.\" This is controversial in contemporary assessments of Strindberg, as have his antisemitic descriptions of Jews (and, in particular, Jewish enemies of his in Swedish cultural life) in some works (e.g., \"Det nya riket\"), particularly during the early 1880s. Strindberg's antisemitic pronouncements, just like his opinions of women, have been debated, and also seem to have varied considerably. Many of these attitudes, passions and behaviours may have been developed for literary reasons and ended as soon as he had exploited them in books.\n\nIn satirizing Swedish society – in particular the upper classes, the cultural and political establishment, and his many personal and professional foes – he could be very confrontational, with scarcely concealed caricatures of political opponents. This could take the form of brutal character disparagement or mockery, and while the presentation was generally skilful, it was not necessarily subtle.\n\nHis daughter Karin Strindberg married a Russian Bolshevik of partially Swedish ancestry, Vladimir Smirnov (\"Paulsson\"). Because of his political views, Strindberg was promoted strongly in socialist countries in Central and Eastern Europe, as well as in the Soviet Union and Cuba.\n\nStrindberg, something of a polymath, was also a telegrapher, theosophist, painter, photographer and alchemist.\n\nPainting and photography offered vehicles for his belief that chance played a crucial part in the creative process.\n\nStrindberg's paintings were unique for their time, and went beyond those of his contemporaries for their radical lack of adherence to visual reality. The 117 paintings that are acknowledged as his were mostly painted within the span of a few years, and are now seen by some as among the most original works of 19th-century art.\n\nToday, his best-known pieces are stormy, expressionist seascapes, selling at high prices in auction houses. Though Strindberg was friends with Edvard Munch and Paul Gauguin, and was thus familiar with modern trends, the spontaneous and subjective expressiveness of his landscapes and seascapes can be ascribed also to the fact that he painted only in periods of personal crisis. Anders Zorn also did a portrait.\n\nHis interest in photography resulted, among other things, in a large number of arranged self-portraits in various environments, which now number among the best-known pictures of Strindberg.\n\nIn 1895 Strindberg met Camille Flammarion and became a member of the Société astronomique de France. He gave some of his experimental astronomical photographs to the Society.\n\nAlchemy, occultism, Swedenborgianism, and various other eccentric interests were pursued by Strindberg with some intensity for periods of his life. In the curious autobiographical work \"Inferno\"—a paranoid and confusing tale of his years in Paris, written in French—he claims to have successfully performed alchemical experiments and cast black magic spells on his daughter.\n\nStrindberg was married three times, as follows:\n\nStrindberg was age 28 and Siri was 27 at the time of their marriage. He was 44 and Frida was 21 when they married, and he was 52 and Harriet was 23 when they married. Late during his life he met the young actress and painter Fanny Falkner (1890–1963) who was 41 years younger than Strindberg. She wrote a book which illuminates his last years, but the exact nature of their relationship is debated. He had a brief affair in Berlin with Dagny Juel before his marriage to Frida; it has been suggested that the news of her murder in 1901 was the reason he cancelled his honeymoon with his third wife, Harriet.\n\nHe was related to Nils Strindberg (a son of one of August's cousins).\n\nStrindberg's relationships with women were troubled and have often been interpreted as misogynistic by contemporaries and modern readers. Marriage and families were being stressed in Strindberg's lifetime as Sweden industrialized and urbanized at a rapid pace. Problems of prostitution and poverty were debated among writers, critics and politicians. His early writing often dealt with the traditional roles of the sexes imposed by society, which he criticized as unjust.\n\nStrindberg's last home was Blå tornet in central Stockholm, where he lived from 1908 until 1912. It is now a museum. Of several statues and busts of him erected in Stockholm, the most prominent is Carl Eldh's, erected in 1942 in Tegnérlunden, a park adjoining this house.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16752706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16752706", "title": "Authority for Use of Military Force to Combat Terrorist Activities Within the United States", "text": "Authority for Use of Military Force to Combat Terrorist Activities Within the United States\n\n\"Authority for Use of Military Force to Combat Terrorist Activities Within the United States\" is a 37-page classified United States Department of Justice memorandum dated October 23, 2001. This memo states that the President has both constitutional and statutory authority to use the military as a means to combat terrorist activity within the United States. This memo is a direct result of the terrorist attacks on September 11th 2001. Its existence is known because it was referred to in another Department of Justice memo. According to the latter memo, the former memo argued that the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution had no application to domestic military operations. The memo has been released to the public.\n\nThis decision was made using a five-part analysis. First it was found through interpretation by the executive branch of the Constitution that the President of the United States has the authority to \"deploy military force against terrorist threats within the United States\". Second, the enactment of legislation S.J. Res. 23, Pub. L.No. 107-40, 115 Stat. 224 (2001) was assessed for legal consequences and it was determined that the President \"may deploy military force domestically and to prevent and deter similar terrorist attacks.\" Third, the Posse Comitatus Act was reviewed and it was determined that the act only applies to \"domestic use of the Armed Forces for law enforcement purposed rather that for the performance of military functions.\" Fourth, it was determined that military intrusion into terrorist cells does not violate the Fourth Amendment. Fifth and finally the government has \"a compelling interest in protecting the nation\" and \"the war effort would outweigh the relevant privacy interests\" in regards to a claim of unreasonable search and seizure. The terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001 are unprecedented and thus the President's authority to deploy military force against terrorist threats is affirmed. The scale of these terrorist attacks has been viewed as a campaign against the United States and thus viewed as an act of war.\n\nOver the course of the last two hundred and fifteen years the Army and Marine Corps have been used to intervene in domestic affairs and enforce laws. Federal troops have been used to control riots, protect minorities from violence, break strikes and guard the borders. Due to partiality and unreliability of state militias, Presidents have found that the use of federal troops was a much more effective means of controlling such domestic disturbances. The use of federal troops in recent times has lessened due to Presidents' preference to let state governors utilize state militias to handle issues within the states.\nOver the last two centuries laws regarding the use of Federal troops to regulate domestic matters have been augmented to reflect lessons learned from previous use of federal troops in civil matters. These laws are based on past experience and were not developed to handle new and unprecedented events such as domestic terrorist attacks.\n\nAs unprecedented events occur in history it is necessary to examine current policies for adequacy. A federal law that \"prohibits military personnel from enforcing the law within the United States\" is an inadequate policy for addressing the Global War on Terrorism. In years prior to September 11, 2001 the Department of Defense narrowly focused on the military's ability to enforce laws domestically and not the President's authority to authorize such use of force.\n The document pertaining to the Authority for Use of Military Force to Combat Terrorist Activities Within the United States has been mentioned in several Supreme Court cases. Two cases that stand out are the Hamdi v. Rumsfeld case and the Hamdan v. Rumsfeld case. These two cases are examples of challenges to the constitutionality of the Authority for Use of Military Force to Combat Terrorist Activities Within the United States.\n\nOther than the implications of this document in the Supreme Court this document has received criticisms elsewhere. A memo that originated from the U.S. Justice Department stated that the memo concerning the Authority for Use of Military Force to Combat Terrorist Activities Within the United States \"should not be treated as authoritative for any purpose.\" This memo continues to highlight that the original memo was written in the time immediately after the September 11 attacks and therefore it is no longer relevant. The original memo stated that the use of military force domestically was not a violation of the fourth amendment, however in the more recent memo it is stated that this is no longer the view of the administration. The more recent memo also recants the statement that the first amendment could be suspended. It also continues to sort out any discrepancies.\n"}
{"id": "6868412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6868412", "title": "Azerbaijan Museum", "text": "Azerbaijan Museum\n\nAzerbaijan Museum is the major archaeological and historical museum in Tabriz, in the northwest part of Iran (East Azerbaijan province). It was established on April 1958. The museum consists of three major halls, a side yard, office rooms and a library. It mostly contains objects discovered from excavations in Iranian Azerbaijan, also some artworks and sculptures of artists. Its library contains more than 2500 books, both handwritten and printed, about history, archaeology, art and Iranian culture. Apart from National Museum of Iran in Tehran, Azerbaijan Museum has the largest collection belonging to different periods of Iran's history.\n\nThe museum has three galleries. The first gallery bears the oldest remains from 5th millennium BC until Sassanian dynasty (212-656 AD). The museum's monuments include goddesses, Rhytons, two skeletons (male and female) and a carved slab of marble known as Bism Allah-Stone. \nThe second gallery consists of two parts: one for Islamic archeology and another part for coins and seals. Part one involves pottery dated from the 10th to the 19th centuries. The coins of this gallery (part two), began with the Achamenid dynasty and end in the Qajar dynasty. The displayed seals and stamps date from the third millennium BC to Islamic eras.\n\nThe third gallery includes some sculptures made by Ahad Hosseini. They are made of plaster and represent the sculptor's own image about the fate of mankind in the 20th century.\n\nIn the yard of museum some stone figurines, statues, rams and inscriptions are kept.\n\nOn May 7, 2013, five silver plate belonging to the Sasanid time stolen from Azerbaijan museum. On November 2013, East Azerbaijan police arrested the thieves but they couldn't retrieve the stolen items.\n\nAzerbaijan Museum is located next to Khaqani Park and Tabriz Blue mosque in central part of Tabriz.\n\n"}
{"id": "17666490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17666490", "title": "Basque señoríos", "text": "Basque señoríos\n\nThe Basque \"jaurerriak or señoríos\" (literally, the Basque lordships) were a series of feudal territories that came into existence in the Basque Country in the Middle Ages. The lordships were hereditary land titles over territories of variable size under the name of a lord or count. The title and lands were often recognized by kings to Basque chieftains. It is loosely related to the concept of manorialism as the king had to swear allegiance to the Foral law in exchange for military assistance from the Basque chiefs, who were considered sovereign over their own lands and people. The Basque señoríos generally conformed vassal states of larger kingdoms; most of them started as part of the Kingdom of Pamplona (later Navarre) but were integrated into the Kingdom of Castile by the 13th century. The Basque term \"jaurreria\" (pronounced ) means \"the lord's country\" and it is usually used to refer to these feudal territories.\n\nThe feudal title confirmed considerable powers to the holder, which in other areas were directly controlled by the king. The \"Lord\" or \"Count\" was a sovereign judicial and military high authority, who ruled directly without referring to a king. The powers of the lord included the appointment of government and civil servants and collection of taxes, as well as the powers to sign external treaties, raise armies and wage wars. \n\nThe largest and most important of the \"señoríos\" was the Lordship of Biscay, which comprised the entire territory of the present-day province of Biscay. \n\nThe Lordship of Biscay was a feudal territory comprising the present-day province of Biscay. It was ruled by the Lord of Biscay. It was the largest and most powerful of the Basque señoríos, and acted as a semi-autonomous territory with its own naval ensign and international consulates from the 11th century until its dissolution in 1876. The Lordship was first a vassal state of the Kingdom of Pamplona, but starting in the 13th century it was conquered and later annexed by the Kingdom of Castile. The House of Haro were the bearers of the title after the Castilian conquest and until 1379, when John I of Castile inherited the title and lands.\n\nThe Lordship was integrated by three constituent lands:\n\n\nA feudal territory comprising most of the present-day province of Gipuzkoa. It was annexed by Alfonso VIII of Castile to the Kingdom of Castile in the year 1200.\n\nThe County of Álava comprised most of the present-day province of Álava from its consolidation in the 9th century until its dissolution in the year 1200 after being conquered by Alfonso VIII and annexed to the Kingdom of Castile. The county changed hands frequently, being controlled by the kingdoms of Asturias, Castile and Navarre at different times. The figure governing the County had the title of Count of Álava.\n\nThe smallest of the Basque señoríos, it comprised the territory surrounding the fortified city of Oñati, in present-day Gipuzkoa. The lordship was originally awarded by the Navarrese monarchs to the members of the House of Guevara, who all originated in the village with the same name in Álava. As such, the lordship had strong links with the Kingdom of Pamplona, but also with the County of Álava. The lordship was conquered by Castile circa the year 1200, but the titles were ratified by the Catholic Monarchs to the Guevara family in the year 1481. \n\nThe lordship was dissolved in 1845, when Oñati was finally integrated into the province of Gipuzkoa.\n\n"}
{"id": "11518267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11518267", "title": "Callixenus of Rhodes", "text": "Callixenus of Rhodes\n\nCallixenus of Rhodes was a Hellenistic author from Rhodes. He was a contemporary of Ptolemy II Philadelphus, Ptolemy III Euergetes and Ptolemy IV Philopator. He wrote two works, both of which are lost. \n\nThis consisted of at least four books, and was much used by Athenaeus (Athen. v. p. 196, &c., ix. p. 387, xi. pp. 472, 474, 483; Harpocrat. s. v. eggythike). It contained the main account of the tessarakonteres.\n\nThis seems to have been a catalogue of painters and sculptors (zografonte kai andriantopoion anagrafe), of which Sopater, in the twelfth book of his \"Eclogae\" had made an abridgement. (Phot. Bibl. Cod. 161 ; comp. Preller, Polem. Fragm. p. 178, &c.)\n"}
{"id": "23883912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23883912", "title": "Chronological synchronism", "text": "Chronological synchronism\n\nChronological synchronism is an event that links two chronologies. For example, it is used in Egyptology to ground Egyptian chronology. The main types of chronological synchronism are synchronisms with other historical chronologies and synchronisms with precisely datable astronomical events.\n\nSynchronisms with other chronologies often rely on some form of recorded communication between regions. For example, in Egyptology, the earliest such synchronisms appear in the 15th century BC, during the Amarna Period by the considerable quantity of diplomatic correspondence between Amenhotep III and Akhenaten and various Near Eastern monarchs; that links Egyptian chronology with other Near Eastern chronologies.\n\nAstronomical synchronisms rely on precise identification of astronomical events recorded in the historical record. The best known of these is the Sothic cycle whose careful study led Richard Anthony Parker to argue that the dates of the Twelfth dynasty of Egypt could be fixed with absolute precision. More recent research has eroded that confidence and questioned many of the assumptions used with the Sothic Cycle. As a result, experts have moved away from relying on it.\n"}
{"id": "47534588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47534588", "title": "Civility", "text": "Civility\n\nCivility comes from the word \"civilis\", which in Latin means \"citizen\". Civility is caused by a person's emotions or lack thereof. If a person is emotionally affected by the negative feedback that they get from other people in a psychologically normal manner then they are defined as civil.\n\nLate Middle English: from Old French \"civilite\", from Latin \"civilitas\", from civilis 'relating to citizens' (see civil). In early use, the term denoted the state of being a citizen and hence good citizenship or orderly behavior. The sense 'politeness' arose in the mid-16th century.\n\nAdolf G. Gundersen and Suzanne Goodney Lea have developed a civility model grounded in empirical data that \"stresses the notion that civility is a sequence, not a single thing or set of things\". The model conceives of civility as a continuum or scale consisting of increasingly demanding traits ranging from \"indifference\" to \"commentary\", \"conversation\", \"co-exploration\" and, from there, to \"habituation\". According to the authors, such a developmental model has several distinct advantages, not least of which is that it allows civility to be viewed as something everyone can get better at.\n\nThe International Day of Peace (\"Peace Day\") is observed by many countries on September 21. Peace day was first started in 1981 by declaration of the United Nations General Assembly. The voting was overwhelmingly in favor of enacting Peace Day, and so the observance was thus born. The goal of Peace Day is to help bring the world together, and share a collective attitude of peace and harmony. Many countries around the world celebrate September 21 as a day of non-violence and cease-fires to emulate the mission of global peace. Since its beginnings the day has spread more throughout the world, with many countries annually participating in this observance.\n\nParticipation is open to all people of the world. People may choose to celebrate Peace Day in different ways, but the goal is to have peace at the heart of all the activity's intentions. Individuals, businesses and organizations are also welcome and encouraged to celebrate Peace Day. Spreading peace and good will towards all mankind is the great aim that's in view for raising awareness for Peace Day.\n\nIn May 2007, the Global Peace Index (GPI) was launched in an attempt to measure the relative ranking of peacefulness around different countries around the world. Today, the Global Peace Index is maintained the Institute for Economics and Peace, and is conducted on an annual basis. The index primarily measures three different categories to determine the level of peace in the world. These levels look at the overall security, crime levels, and the build up of military forces. By measuring levels of peace, the hope is that a greater general awareness and attention is given towards making the world a more peaceful place.\n\nA 2010 Allegheny College poll found that nearly all Americans (95 percent) believe civility is important in politics.\n\nIn a 2012 poll conducted by Weber Shandwick, 65% of Americans reported an increase in incivility due to a weakened U.S. economy during the Great Recession. Almost 50% of those same Americans surveyed indicated they have removed themselves from participating in any politics because of fear of incivility or bullying. Of the 1000 people surveyed, a follow-up study revealed that 86% of those people reported being subjected to incivility. In this report, a part of an annual follow-up research report in January 2016 sharing findings on attitudes and sentiment about civility, 95% of Americans believe that incivility is a very visible issue, while 74% recognized that civility in general had declined during the past few years. Over 90% of voters claimed that the presidential candidates' attitudes and civil behavior would play a significant role in their voting decision in the upcoming 2016 election.\n\nMany projects are led by State Supreme Courts to foster civility. One of these initiatives is led by the California Judicial Branch for their Civics Education Outreach program. The primary objective of this program is to teach young adults and students how democracy is supposed to function in the United States and other details about how legal processes work. The mission is to have students leave the program with a greater interest and understanding of U.S. courts, legal processes, and democracy.\n\nPenn State University conducted a study on perceptions of the legal professional and its relation to civility. They found that general opinion pointed to a drop or decline in civility with the legal profession. To counteract demeaning and unprofessional behavior, there has been several initiatives put in place by state bar associations. However, the legal profession is not the only industry that has adopted civility standards. Many other companies and organizations across several industries have adopted civility standards that have also help to increase workplace civility.\n\nNumerous universities in the U.S., such as the University of Colorado, the University of Missouri, University of California Davis, Johns Hopkins University, University of Wisconsin, Rutgers University, American University, and California State University San Marcos have created programs designed to foster and define what civility means on their campuses. Some colleges, such as the Arizona State University, offer an undergraduate certificate in Civil Communication. Still other universities, such as Kansas State University, have developed programs in dialogue and deliberation which involve codes of behavior that foster constructive, civil discourse. Although many colleges have adopted programs to foster civility efforts, there are still many colleges and universities, including many of the Ivy League schools, that do not have or list no visible place online about any civility initiatives, codes or standards.\n\nNumerous community groups have formed throughout the U.S. to restore constructive civility in the public space. The Civility Toolkit with approximately 300 civility tools aggregated by the Civility Center with a mission to help provide access to resources regarding civility and to help restore civility in society. Many of these groups are members of the National Coalition for Dialogue and Deliberation. Other programs like iCivics, which was started by Sandra Day O'Conner U.S. Justice, provides educational tools for students that teach about the importance of actively taking part in democracy. Although some private schools offer courses geared to teach about the U.S. government and legal system, most public schools do not teach about the U.S. government until their junior or senior year in high school. To help bring these lessons into the classroom, O'Conner's program provides teachers with educational tools, such as printable goals, games, and various lesson plans.\n\nArnett and Arneson define civility \"a metaphor that points to the importance of public respect in interpersonal interaction.\" The difference between tolerating someone, and respecting them are concerned with the outlook that toleration does not imply respect, but respect requires understanding of another person's perspective. Having social intelligence or \"Social IQ\" impacts our ability to empathize with people, and realize all people are human and that if respect or common ground cannot be met that we strive for at least toleration in order to be civil.\n\nIn \"Psychology Today\", Price-Mitchell describes civility as a personal attitude that acknowledges other humans' rights to live and coexist together in a manner that does not harm others. The Psychology of civility indicates awareness, ability to control oneself's passions, as well as have a deeper understanding of others are a part of civil obligation, which everyone should strive to participate. This may suggest that civility goes beyond mere toleration, but may inherently imply a mutual co-existence and respect for humankind. Some may relate this to the ideas expressed by singer John Lennon in the song \"Imagine\", with the words \"Imagine all the people sharing all the world.\" Although the level of peace can be a subjective topic, many people would agree that it requires a certain degree of harmony and opposes violence in order to remain civil.\n\nIn the academic journal \"Philosophy & Public Affairs\", Calhoun delineates civility as an element of dialogue that sheds light on \"basic moral attitudes of respect, tolerance, and considerateness\". The topic of civility is expansive, and can be viewed from many different perspectives. Calhoun considers civility to be a part of the moral virtues that can differ from what is socially acceptable, since what is socially acceptable is not always morally correct.\n\nThe Freemasons and members of the entire Masonic family, have had a long history of fostering civil dialogue and building civil societies. Masonic Lodges represent a peaceful assembly of people that are of different places of origin, languages, backgrounds, and beliefs. In particular, the principles and tenets of Freemasonry's values aim to promote and restore civility in the United States and around the globe. In 2015, Grand Master Charvonia of the Grand Lodge of California declared May 25, 2015 to be the \"Champion Civility Month\", which encouraged Freemasons throughout California to make an effort to bring more civility into their local lodges and community. Additionally, Freemasons from around the world have been working to repair civility through the Masonic Family Civility Project. This Civility Project was built to help raise awareness of Civility, and by providing social conversations, civility resources, multimedia education, and information for anyone to access.\n\nRecent studies and polls from 2014 indicate that Americans find workplace incivility to be a growing problem that has had a negative impact on them and their duties at work. One study's research suggests 60% of employees think that their co-workers' irritating habits to have negatively affected them at their job. In the same study, 40% reported that they are looking for another job opportunity because of another negative co-worker. These studies suggest that incivility in the workplace dampens productivity and an adverse effect on an organization's bottom line. Although this data is only looking to quantify how widespread workplace incivility is in the workplace, it does not account for how many people encounter workplace incivility and are not sure what they can do about it. Furthermore, it is not taking into consideration how many of these workplaces have civility tools or initiatives at the researched companies.\n\nNumerous organizations, including the United States government, have actively attempted to put in place measures to prevent incivility in the workforce. One measure that was initiated to reduce workplace incivility, was processing cases of sexual harassment to be illegal, which is defined by the US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) as being against the law in every state to harass any person during the employment or hiring process because of that person's gender. Harassment can include \"sexual harassment\", but is not limited to workplace bullying, cyber bullying, physical and verbal threats. Although many would agree that sexual harassment is an issue that should be illegal, it has really been in the spotlight of the attention in the U.S. since 1964. Because of the legal ramifications from poor prior classification of sexual harassment cases in the past, its boundaries were more loosely interpreted and more people were subject to unwanted contact or attention. Since this the term has been redefined, people are greater protected from a legal perspective in their place of work, but must actively participate in preventing these issues by speaking up and/or reporting issues. The definition for these laws are still being written today, as more people are speaking out against the abuse.\n\nIncivility is the polar opposite of civility, or in other words a lack or completely without civility. Verbal or physical attacks on others, cyber bullying, rudeness, religious intolerance, discrimination, and vandalism are just some of the acts that are generally considered acts of incivility. Incivility is a negative part of society that has impacted many people in the United States, but as the world is becoming increasingly more transparent in social interactions, it has become more increasingly apparent that incivility has become an issue on the global stage. Social media and the web have given people the ability around the globe to freely exchange ideas, but it has not come without its consequences.\n\nPoliticians in the U.S. have frequently cited that they encounter a lack of civility in their workplace, and have disregarded it as unfortunate aspect of politics, but polls indicate that \"going negative\" can help candidates win elections. During the 2016 presidential campaign, candidate Donald Trump has regularly called his rivals \"stupid, incompetent and losers\".\n\nRecognizing that incivility online, more commonly referred to as cyber bullying, has become an increasing problem that takes away from a positive online experience. Recognizing that people harassing others online has become a problem and can have negative consequences for businesses, many companies have stepped up to create more awareness and initiatives to help. Intel in collaboration with organizations such as the Born This Way Foundation and Vox Media have made an initiative called \"Hack Harassment\" aimed to increase awareness of online harassment and anti-harassment technologies. There is no claim of solution for what can be done to stop online harassment, but many studies suggest that a large number of people are harassed online. Although there are many tactics to block cyber-bullying, such as censorship and banning users from accessing a site, it does not correct the underlying issues on what causes it in the first place. Although blocking people online from bullying others may solve some of the issues on the web, it may only manifest itself in other forms offline and in person where the possibility for violence and other physical harm could take place.\n\nOn April 22, 2016 The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research at the University of Chicago released a report citing that 74 percent of Americans think manners and behavior have declined in the United States. In this study they discovered that people in most cases can agree with what is appropriate and inappropriate behavior. They found that 8 out of 10 Americans find jokes made based on race, gender, or sexuality are considered inappropriate, but only a small number of people owning up to actually making these types of jokes ever. Although there were some differences between age demographics on newer technologies, such as the use of cell phones. The report suggests that nearly half of all Americans 18-29 find it acceptable to use their cell phones in a restaurant, while less than 22 percent of people over the age of 60 years old agrees.\n\nIn July 2012, the President of the Federation of Law Societies of Canada made a strong point on civility at the 5th Biennial International Legal Ethics Conference. Legislation is often very open for interpretation, unless strictly and prohibitively defined by law, but in most cases where the law is yet to be defined many lawyers can see opportunity to act immorally to win their case. The \"anything to get the job done\" mentality can not only have negative consequences in the legal system, but it could possibly further spread the potential for laws and regulations to be exploited in immoral manner.\n\nAdditionally, during 2012, the Law Society of Upper Canada decided that Joe Groia was guilty of his incivility to opposing counsel during his successful defense of John Felderhof from Insider trading and securities charges. On the same case, the Supreme Court of Canada confirmed the decision of Bar of Quebec that Giles Dore was guilty of professional misconduct because of an uncivil letter he wrote to a judge. This high-profile case brought a lot of attention to the legal definition of the word civility, and what it means to be civil in the legal profession. It has since defined a broader set of rules of what is legally considered civil in the court of law in Canada.\n\nSince the case with Joe Groia, The Law Society of Upper Canada has launched several initiatives to guard against incivility in the Canadian legal profession. To enforce The Law Society's stance on the issues of civility in the Canadian legal system, they have issued verbal warnings to lawyers who are not civil with judges and other lawyers. The counter argument against civility measures in if the new guidelines inhibit their ability to defend their clients. Since laws and rules are often open to interpretation, some lawyers consider it a conflict of interest to be civil with their opponents as they do not believe there is any way to accomplish their goals while remaining civil.\n\nIn January 2017, the BC & Yukon Freemasons in Canada stated civility being like The Golden Rule, defined as \"treating others as you would want them to treat you\". This statement was in part to a recent civility initiative grounded in respect and attitude of inclusiveness with family, community, and the society at large.\n\nAt a recent address with Gisborne's top businesswomen in early 2016, Lara Meyer an adviser to the Australian Government cited incivility in the workplace has cost New Zealand approximately $15 Million a year. Noting that Australia is also losing out about $26 Million a year due to a lack of workplace civility. There could even potentially be more loss that is unaccounted for in New Zealand businesses, as the cost of rudeness could be holding them back from working together more politely and agreeably.\n\nCivil Összefogás Fórum (Civil Cooperation Forum), founded on April 5, 2009, is a kind of umbrella organisation for numerous community groups throughout Hungary.\n\nEtiquette and language\n\nEtiquette and society\n\nWorldwide etiquette\n\n"}
{"id": "3011685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3011685", "title": "Counterfeit Coin Bulletin", "text": "Counterfeit Coin Bulletin\n\nThe Counterfeit Coin Bulletin was a publication of the American Numismatic Association, released three times a year to help battle counterfeiting of collector coins. Issued on a subscription basis, the bulletin was produced in conjunction with the International Association of Professional Numismatists (IAPN), which operates the International Bureau for the Suppression of Counterfeit Coins (IBSCC) and maintains close links with mints, police forces, museums, collectors and coin dealers.\n\nEight issues were produced between April 2000 and December 2002, after which the ANA ceased publication.\n\nThe publication was previously known as the \"Bulletin on Counterfeits\", and was published out of Switzerland by the IBSCC.\n\nAs of Nov 30th 2006, The entire series of \"The IBSCC Bulletin on Counterfeits\" was incorporated into \"forgerynetwork.com\" with permission from the copyright holder.\n\n"}
{"id": "493621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=493621", "title": "Dalmatic", "text": "Dalmatic\n\nThe dalmatic is a long, wide-sleeved tunic, which serves as a liturgical vestment in the Catholic, Lutheran, Anglican, United Methodist, and some other churches. When used, it is the proper vestment of a deacon at Mass or other services. Although infrequent, it may also be worn by bishops above the alb and below the chasuble.\n\nLike the chasuble worn by priests and bishops, it is an outer vestment and is supposed to match the liturgical colour of the day. The dalmatic is often made of the same material and decoration as a chasuble, so as to form a matching pair. Traditional Solemn Mass vestment sets include matching chasuble, dalmatic, and tunicle.\n\nA dalmatic is also worn by the British monarch during the Coronation service.\n\nIn the Roman Empire, the dalmatic was an amply sleeved tunic with wide stripes \"(clavi)\" that were sometimes worked with elaborate designs. Dalmatics had become typical attire for upper-class women in the latter part of the 3rd century AD. They are pictured in a few funerary portraits on shrouds from Antinoopolis in Roman Egypt. Literary sources record dalmatics as imperial gifts to individuals.\n\nThe dalmatic was a garment of Byzantine dress, and was adopted by Emperor Paul I of the Russian Empire as a coronation and liturgical vestment. In Orthodox icons of Jesus Christ as King and Great High Priest he is shown in a dalmatic.\n\nIt was a normal item of clothing at the time when ecclesiastical clothes began to develop separately around the fourth century, worn over a longer tunic by the upper classes, and as the longest part of the dress of men of lower rank.\n\nThe dalmatic is a robe with wide sleeves; it reaches to at least the knees or lower. In 18th-century vestment fashion, it is customary to slit the under side of the sleeves so that the dalmatic becomes a mantle like a scapular with an opening for the head and two square pieces of the material falling from the shoulder over the upper arm. Modern dalmatics tend to be longer and have closed sleeves, with the sides being open below the sleeve. The distinctive ornamentation of the vestment consists of two vertical stripes running from the shoulder to the hem; according to Roman usage these stripes are narrow and sometimes united at the bottom by two narrow cross-stripes. Outside of Rome the vertical stripes are quite broad and the cross-piece is on the upper part of the garment. At a Pontifical High Mass, a dalmatic (usually made of lighter material) is worn by the bishop under the chasuble. At solemn papal liturgical occasions the Pope is assisted by two cardinal-deacons vested in a dalmatic and wearing a \"mitra simplex\" (simple white mitre).\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church the subdeacons wore a vestment called the tunicle, which was originally distinct from a dalmatic, but by the 17th century the two had become identical, though a tunicle was often less ornamented than a dalmatic, the main difference often being only one horizontal stripe versus the two becoming a deacon's vestment. Additionally, unlike deacons, subdeacons do not wear a stole under their tunicle. Today, the tunicle is rare in the Roman Catholic Church as only certain authorized clerical societies (such as the Priestly Fraternity of St. Peter) have subdeacons.\n\nTraditionally the dalmatic was not used in the Roman rite by deacons during Lent. In its place, depending on the point in the liturgy, was worn either a folded chasuble or what was called a broad stole, which represented a rolled-up chasuble. This tradition went back to a time at which the dalmatic was still considered an essential secular garment and thus not appropriate to be worn during the penitential season of Lent.\n\nIn the Byzantine Rite the \"sakkos\", which is elaborately decorated and amply cut, usually worn by the bishops as an outer vestment in place of a presbyter's \"phelonion\" and which, like the \"phelonion\", corresponds to the western chasuble and cope, is derived from Byzantine imperial dress, and hence is identical in origin to the Western dalmatic.\n\nIn all Eastern rites the \"sticharion\" (which is analogous to the Western alb), of the ornate sort worn by deacons and lower clergy, is sometimes referred to as a dalmatic.\n\n"}
{"id": "26338752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26338752", "title": "Dimitrije Bogdanović", "text": "Dimitrije Bogdanović\n\nDimitrije Bogdanović (Cyrillic: \"Димитрије Богдановић\") (October 11, 1930 in Belgrade - June 14, 1986 in Beograd) was a Serbian historian and member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. He is considered as one of leading scholars on Serbian medieval literature.\n\nBogdanović concentrated on the history of medieval Serbian principalities and history of the Serbian Orthodox Church during the Middle Ages.\n\nIn 1978 Bogdanović became corresponding member of the Serbian Academy, in 1985 regular member.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7985859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7985859", "title": "Duchy of Gascony", "text": "Duchy of Gascony\n\nThe Duchy of Gascony or Duchy of Vasconia (; ; ) was a duchy in present southwestern France and northeastern Spain, part corresponding to the modern region of Gascony after 824. The Duchy of Gascony, then known as \"Wasconia\", was originally a Frankish march formed to hold sway over the Basques (Vascones). However, the Duchy went through different periods, from its early years with its distinctively Basque element to the merger in personal union with the Duchy of Aquitaine to the later period as a dependency of the Plantagenet kings of England.\n\nIn the Hundred Years' War, Charles V of France conquered most of Gascony by 1380, and under Charles VII of France it was incorporated into the kingdom of France in its entirety in 1453. The corresponding portion within Spain became part of the Basque Kingdom of Navarre.\n\nGascony was the core territory of Roman Gallia Aquitania. This province, by the 2nd century, was extended to include much of western Roman Gaul, as far north as the Loire. Thus, the name of the \"Aquitani\" came to be transferred to the territory of central-western France later known as the Duchy of Aquitaine. In 293, Diocletian re-created the original province of Caesar's Aquitania under the name of Novempopulania or \"Aquitania Tertia\".\n\nThe \"Vascones\" were a people of the southwestern Pyrenees in the Roman period, but by the end of the 6th century, the Vascones defined a confederacy of native tribes with similar language and traditions on both sides of the Pyrenees who had not been culturally Romanized. Around 580, both the Visigothic kingdom and the kingdom of the Franks launched major campaigns against the Basques. In 587 Basques are cited as raiding the plains of Aquitaine, maybe to the west of Toulouse. Chilperic I sent his duke Bladastes stationed in Toulouse, but was defeated. After taking the throne, Leovigild launched a series of military campaigns around the Iberian Peninsula, taking control from the Basques (\"partes Vasconiae\") in the upper reaches of the Ebro (present-day Álava, possibly up to the north of Castile), and founded a fortress called Victoriacum (dubiously Vitoria-Gasteiz, possibly Iruña-Veleia).\n\nThis military push from a stronger centralized authority in Toledo placed more pressure on the Basques to get off the Ebro rich farmland than those already stretching all the way to the Garonne. In this period (585), the count of Bordeaux Galactorius is cited as fighting the Basques, who are portrayed as hiding out in the mountains, and the Cantabrians.\n\nIn 602, the Merovingians created a frontier duchy to their southwest during the tripartite wars between Franks, Visigoths, and Basques. A certain \"Genial\" was then appointed \"dux wasconum\" as a way of better handling their relations with the Basques. At the same time, the Visigoths created the Duchy of Cantabria as a buffer against the Basques inhabiting west of current Navarre.\nThe march of Vasconia (or Wasconia) was created with the purpose of controlling the Basques in Novempopulania, but it extended at this stage on the lands south and around the axis provided by the river Garonne between Bordeaux and Toulouse. About this period duke Francio is reported to vow allegiance to the Franks in Cantabria, an area inhabited by the Basques, but c. 612, the Gothic king Sisebut seems to have conquered the territory.\n\nBy the year 602, the duchy of Vasconia, under Frankish overlordship, was consolidated in the areas around the Garonne river but it may have extended up to Cantabria, under Frankish domain at the time of and before the creation of the Duchy. In the years 610 and 612 respectively, the Gothic kings Gundemar and Sisebut launched attacks against the Basques. After a Basque attack in the Ebro valley in the year 621, Swinthila defeated them and founded the fortress of Olite.\n\nIn 626, the Basques rebelled against the Franks, with the bishop of Eauze being exiled on the accusation of supporting or sympathising with the Basque rebels, while in 635 a gigantic Frankish expedition led by the duke Arnebert and 9 more dukes launched an attack against the Basques, forcing them to retreat to the mountains, while Arnebert's column was defeated in Subola, maybe near Tardets. However, the Basques' relish was short-lived since they were brought to heel by Dagobert (Clichy, 636). By 626, it is certain that the duchy extended up to the Pyrenees and Vasconia had replaced Novempopulania as a preferred name for the geographical area between the Pyrenees and the Garonne. In 643, there was another rebellion to the north of the Pyrenees and in 642 and 654 they battled against the Visigoths to the south, in Saragossa. From 589 to 684, the Bishop of Pamplona was absent from the Visigothic Councils of Toledo, which is interpreted by some as the result of this city being under Basque or Frankish control.\n\nIn the year 660, Felix of Aquitaine, a patrician from Toulouse of Gallo-Roman stock, received the ducal title of both Vasconia and Aquitaine (located between the Garonne and Loire rivers), effectively ruling independently over Vasconia and at least part of Aquitaine. Under Felix and his successors, Frankish overlordship over these lands became merely nominal, and Vasconia became a prominent regional power. The \"Ravena Cosmography\" cites \"Wasconia\" as extending up to the Loire, although the real concept behind the name is contested; it further divides the territory into Guasconia (north of Garonne) and Spanoguasconia (south of Garonne). \n\nIndependent dukes Lupus, Odo, Hunald and Waifer succeeded him respectively, with the last three belonging to the same lineage. Their ethnicity is not certain, since records and their names are not conclusive.\n\nBut the Umayyad invasion of 711 effected a complete shift in trends. Hitherto the duke Odo the Great had been independent, refusing to recognise the authority of either the Merovingian king or his mayor of the palace. In 714, Pamplona was captured by the Umayyads. In 721, Odo defeated the Arabian-African forces at the Battle of Toulouse. However, in 732 he was utterly routed at the Battle of the River Garonne near Bordeaux, after which the Muslim troops under Abdul Rahman Al Ghafiqi plundered the country and captured Narbonne. Only by submitting to the suzerainty of his Frankish archrival, the mayor Charles Martel, could they decisively defeat the Umayyad invaders at the Battle of Tours. Aquitaine and its attendant marches were then united to Francia, but Odo probably kept ruling the Duchy of Vasconia and Aquitaine about the same as before until his death.\n\nOdo died c. 735, leaving his realm to his son Hunald, who desiring the former independence which had been his father's, attacked Martel's successors, starting a war which was to last for two generations. In 743, the situation was further complicated by the arrival of Asturian forces attacking Vasconia from the west. In 744, Hunald abdicated to his son Waifer, who repeatedly challenged Frankish overlordship. After a campaign against the Umayyads in Septimania, the king Pepin the Short turned his attention to Aquitaine and Waifer, unleashing a devastating war on Aquitaine (Vasconia included) that was to have dire consequences on its population, towns and society. Waifer and his Basque troops confronted Pepin several times but were defeated thrice in 760, 762, and 766, after which Aquitaine and Vasconia pledged loyalty to Pepin and Waifer was eventually murdered by desperate followers, or possibly by someone bribed by Pepin.\n\nBeginning in 778, Charlemagne did appoint counts (Bordeaux, Toulouse, Fezensac) on the bordering lands of Vasconia along the banks of the river Garonne, so undermining the influence of the dukes of Vasconia.\n\nThe Basques however found a pivotal ally in the south in the Basque Muslim realm of the Banu Qasi (early 9th century), and enjoyed some safety from the west, as the Asturians were immersed in continuous dynastic conflicts.\nThe time of Charlemagne's reign was rife with conflicts between Basques, Franks and Muslims. Most famous is the Battle of Roncevaux in 778, during which Basques ambushed and slaughtered Charlemagne's rearguard after the Franks destroyed the walls of Pamplona. Heavily mythologised from the 11th century on as a clash between Christians and Muslims, this battle became one of the most celebrated events in the legendary Matter of France.\n\nMuslims attacked Vasconia as well, taking possession of Pamplona for some time, but they were expelled by a rebellion in 798-801 that helped to create the Basque Muslim realm of the Banu Qasi around Tudela. In 806 Pamplona, still under Cordovan rule, was attacked by the Franks; and the Pamplonese, led by a certain Velasco, pledged allegiance to Charlemagne again, but his tenure proved short lived. At about 814, an anti-Frankish faction led by Enecco, allied with the Banu Qasi, seems to have taken over again. A Frankish army was sent to quash the revolt, to little effect. Furthermore, on their way north through Roncevaux an ambush was attempted, but resulted in a stalemate as the Franks had taken Basque women and children hostage.\n\nNorthern Basques, organized in the Duchy of Vasconia, collaborated with Franks during campaigns such as the capture of Barcelona in 799 but after the death of Charlemagne in 814, uprisings started anew. The revolt in Pamplona crossed the Pyrenees north and in 816 Louis the Pious deposed the Basque Duke Seguin of Bordeaux for failing to suppress or sympathising with the rebellion, so starting a widespread revolt, led by García Jiménez (according to late traditions, a near-kinsman of Íñigo Arista, to be the first monarch of Pamplona) and newly appointed duke Lupus Centullo (c. 820). Meanwhile, in Aragon the pro-Frankish Count Aznar Galindo was overthrown by Enecco´s allied Count Gartzia Malo, with Aznar Galindo in turn seeking refuge in Frankish-held territory. Louis the Pious received the submission of rebel Basque lords in Dax, but things were far from settled.\n\nIn 824 the second Battle of Roncevaux took place, when counts Eblo and Aznar Galindo (identified as Aznar Sánchez too), Frankish vassals and the latter appointed Duke of Gascony, were captured by the joint Pamplonese and Banu Qasi forces, strengthening the independence of Pamplona. In the early 9th century the lands around the Adour river were segregated from the Duchy under the name of County of Vasconia. Count Aznar's successor, Sans Sancion, fought against Charles the Bald, as Charles didn't recognize him as legitimate.\n\nIn 844, Vikings invaded Bordeaux and killed Duke Seguin II. His heir William was killed trying to retake Bordeaux in 848, though some sources say he was only captured and later deposed by the king. By the year 853, Sans Sancion, the Basque leader, was recognised as duke by Charles the Bald. During that same year, Muza of Tudela, relative of the Basque princes, invaded Vasconia and made Sans prisoner. In 855, Sans died and was succeeded by Arnold, who died fighting against the Norse in 864.\n\nSancho III Mitarra (or \"Menditarra\", cited in 864) appears to be the founder of a lineage of autochthonous independent dukes ruling Gascony up to Sancho VI William (died in 1032), with loose ties, if any, to the Frankish Kingdom.\n\nThe dukes had to face Viking inroads and unrest for over a century, an instability that brought about the destruction of existing monasteries in Gascony and a decayed urban life. The dukes of Gascony faced up against the Norsemen (Vikings), and a King of Navarre is cited as providing assistance against them near Bayonne. The Gascon ducal family became tied to the rising Kingdom of Navarre by matrimonial alliances at the end of the 10th century, eventually bringing Gascony suzerain to King Sancho III of Navarre (\"the Great\") for a short period up to 1035.\n\nWhile the gradual decay of the Carolingian dynasty would have been expected to pave the way for a reassertion of its regional identity, new borders, a more rigid structure derived from feudalizalization, and internal Basque divergences of culture, interest and language stopped that process. Dukes parcelled out the duchy as appanages for their sons — the power of decision was gradually transferred in the 9th and 10th centuries to Gascony's smaller constituent counties, such as Béarn, Armagnac, Bigorre, Comminges, Nébouzan, Labourd, etc.\n\nThe Duchy of Vasconia between the Adour and the Garonne, gradually became the Duchy of Gascony, moving away from the history of the Basque Country as Gascon (a romance language) took hold in 'greater Gascony', so stripping the name of its former ethnic connotations and lending it a political one. By the 11th-12th century, Basque language is believed to extend on the north-east up to the upper reaches of the Adour river, far short of its extension 300 years before.\n\nAfter Sancho \"the Great\"'s reign, Gascony distanced again from Pamplona. By 1053, Gascony was inherited and conquered by the Duchy of Aquitania. It thus became a part of the Angevin Empire in the 12th century. The ducal title was reemployed by Edward Longshanks and it formed a base of support for the English during the Hundred Years' War. Margaret Wade Labarge called it England's first foreign colony.\n\nEngland lost Gascony as a result of its defeat in the Hundred Years' War, and the region thence became a permanent part of France.\n\nUnder the Basque line of dukes that began in 864, Gascony became effectively independent of the Frankish kings. In 1004, Abbo of Fleury, when visiting the monastery of La Réole, claimed to be more powerful there than the king, since nobody recognised his power. Charters of La Réole are dated by the reign of the duke of Gascony and not that of the king of France. Nonetheless, charters from elsewhere in Gascony continued to be dated by the reigns of the Frankish kings down to the acquisition of Gascony by Aquitaine.\n\nAccording to the cartulary of Saint-Seurin at Bordeaux in 1009, \"the custom is that no count [of Gascony] can legitimately govern in this city of Bordeaux if he has not received the charge of the consulate, eyes lowered, from the most holy saint bishop Seurin and if he does not make an annual tribute.\" A later notice from between 1160 and 1180, says specifically that the would-be count must lay his sword on Saint Seurin's altar and then only take it up again after receiving the saint's standard. These practices parallel the practice of the French kings of receiving their kingdom from Saint Denis and carrying his banner, the Oriflamme. It is possible, however, that the notices in the cartulary of Saint-Seurin, which both elevate that religious house and at the same time distance the dukes of Gascony from any French vassalage, were forged in the late 12th century to advance the cause of the Plantagenets.\n\nFrankish \"Wasconia\" comprised the former Roman province of Novempopulania and, at least in some periods, also the lands south of the Pyrenees centred on Pamplona. It follows that the Duchy of Vasconia comprised Basque areas north and south of the Pyrenees at least until the definite detachment of Pamplona from the Duchy in 824.\n\nIn 628 the Frankish king Dagobert I made arrangements for his brother Charibert II to rule over the territories between the Loire and the Pyrenees (\"limes Spaniae\") 'in the general area of Vasconia', including Saintes, Perigueux, Cahors, Agenais, etc. In the following years, the same king is reported to have subjugated the whole of Vasconia, meaning that it extended beyond the Pyrenees as well.\n\nThe \"Ravenna Cosmographer\" refers to Vasconia as the whole territory stretching out to the Loire, and so does the \"Chronicle of Fredegar\", suggesting that it lies south of the Loire. but the nature of this naming is subject to debate. At any rate, Basques on either side of the Garonne are cited in the last independent years of the Duchy up to 768, but this year, its northern boundary was pinpointed on the river Garonne. Several authors have put down this large geographical extent of the 7th-8th centuries to an expansion of the Basques from their assumed original habitations around the Pyrenees.\n\nUnlike neighbouring regions, counts did not play a role in Vasconia's power share. Moreover, they were absent, and dukes are mentioned as the main figures of the Basques, immediately followed on the hierarchy by tribal chiefs and families, at least until the rise of the Carolingian dynasty.As for the judicial system, neither the Visigoth law nor Roman law seem to have been in use in the Duchy of Vasconia, and a native order may have prevailed at least until the Carolingian takeover in 768-769.\n\nAs of 778, Charlemagne started appointing counts (Bordeaux, Toulouse, Fezensac) on the bordering lands of Vasconia along the banks of the river Garonne, so undermining the grip on power of the dukes of Vasconia.\n\nThe names of the dukes are recorded under a bewildering number of variants, which makes identification very difficult. These dukes and counts were leaders of the Basque clans that dominated Gascony and so their native names were Basque. However, as the Gascon language gradually replaced Basque, their names are also recorded in Gascon. Indeed, eventually the dukes of Gascony probably themselves adopted Gascon, which is reflected in the declining use of authentically Basque names by the last dukes.\n\nIn written documents, their names were usually recorded in Latin, which was the favored written language at the time. Today, their names are also frequently found in their French version, and also sometimes in their Spanish version. One example: the Basque name Otsoa (meaning \"wolf\") was literally translated Lop in Gascon, Lupus in Latin, Loup in French, and Lobo in Spanish. Thus, Duke Otsoa II of Gascony can be known by any of these names, which confuses people not used to the local linguistic situation. Furthermore, even within a set language, there exist many different written variants, as for the Basque name Santso (from Latin \"sanctus\", meaning \"holy\"), which can be found in Basque documents written Antso, Sanzio, Santio, Sanxo, Sancio, and so on.\n\nUsually, the dukes and counts of Gascony had two names, the first one being their given name, the second one being the given name of their father (for example, Duke Sans I Lop, which means this is Duke Sans I, son of Lop). This custom later generated the Spanish family names, with the adding of suffix -\"ez\" meaning \"son of\". \"Juan Sánchez\" literally means \"John, son of Sancho\". For a few dukes of Gascony, the second name is not the given name of their father, but it is a nickname that they gained over time and that replaced the given name of their father, such as the famous duke Sans III Mitarra, where \"Mitarra\" is not the name of his father, but a nickname referring to his origin, probably \"Menditarra\", with a typical Basque \"-tarra\" suffix to express origin.\n\nThere is one duke of Gascony subject to a historiographical discussion, and that is Duke Seguin I (Segiwin, Sihimin...). It has been contended that it actually hides a Basque \"Semen\"—written forms \"Semeno, Xemen, Ximen\", or \"Jimeno\". It may be that native Basque name based on the word \"seme\" (meaning \"son\", attested in Aquitanian engravings), or it may be \"Seguin\" (modern Gascon \"Siguin\"), a name of Germanic origin based on \"sig\", meaning 'victory' (cf modern German \"Sieg\"), and \"win\", meaning 'friend'.\n\nIt has been suggested that some apparently Basque names are merely corruptions of late Germanic names. For example, Garsinde leading to Garsean, Gendolf or Centulf to Centule, Aginald or Hunnald to Enneko (in Flanders, and Frisian,still a short form of the first two frank names), Aginard to Aznar, Belasgytta or Wallagotha to Velasquita, Belasgutho to Velasco, Arnoald to Arnau, Theuda to Toda, Theudahilda to Dadildis or Dedadils. While some of them may be so, many of them—Andregoto, Amunna, Aznar(i), Velasco, Garcia, Ximen(o), Enneco—have well explained forms according to consistent linguistic rules and etymologies, as described by linguist Koldo Mitxelena. The oldest Basque medieval names reflected totemic (animal) references, and family links.\n\nIn the list below, the dukes and counts of Gascony are listed according to their Gascon names (based on the current spelling of Gascon, not the medieval spelling, which was fluctuating).\n\n\n\n\nAfter 1053, the title of duke of Gascony was held by the dukes of Aquitaine.\n\n\nAfter 1204, the title of duke of Gascony was held by the kings of England.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10928780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10928780", "title": "Early modern European cuisine", "text": "Early modern European cuisine\n\nThe cuisine of early modern Europe (c. 1500–1800) was a mix of dishes inherited from medieval cuisine combined with innovations that would persist in the modern era. Though there was a great influx of new ideas, an increase in foreign trade and a scientific revolution, preservation of foods remained traditional: preserved by drying, salting and smoking or pickling in vinegar. Fare was naturally dependent on the season: a cookbook by Domenico Romoli called \"Panunto\" made a virtue of necessity by including a recipe for each day of the year. \n\nThe discovery of the New World, the establishment of new trade routes with Asia and increased foreign influences from sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East meant that Europeans became familiarized with a multitude of new foodstuffs. Spices that previously had been prohibitively expensive luxuries, such as pepper, cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, and ginger, soon became available to the majority population, and the introduction of new plants coming from the New World and India like maize, potato, sweet potato, chili pepper, cocoa, vanilla, tomato, coffee and tea transformed European cuisine forever. \n\nThere was a very great increase in prosperity in Europe during this period, which gradually reached all classes and all areas, and considerably changed the patterns of eating. Everywhere both doctors and chefs continued to characterize foodstuffs by their effects on the four humours: they were considered to be heating or cooling to the constitution, moistening or drying. Nationalism was first conceived in the early modern period, but it was not until the 19th century that the notion of a national cuisine emerged. Class differences were far more important dividing lines, and it was almost always upper-class food that was described in recipe collections and cookbooks.\n\nIn most parts of Europe two meals per day were eaten, one in the early morning to noon and one in the late afternoon or later at night. The exact times varied both by period and region. In Spain and in parts of Italy such as Genoa and Venice the early meal was the lighter one while supper was heavier. In the rest of Europe, the first meal of the day was the more substantial. Throughout the period, there was a gradual shift of mealtimes. The first meal, then called dinner in English, moved from before noon to around 2:00 or 3:00 in the afternoon by the 17th century. By the end of the 18th century, it could be held as late as 5:00 or 6:00. This necessitated a midday meal, luncheon, later shortened to lunch, which was established by the late 18th century. Breakfast does not receive much attention in any sources. Breakfast, when it began to be fashionable, was usually just a coffee, tea or chocolate, and did not become a more substantial meal in many parts of Europe until the 19th century. In the south, where supper was the largest meal, there was less need for breakfast, and it therefore remained unimportant, something that can still be seen today in the traditionally light breakfasts of southern Europe, which usually consists of coffee or tea with bread or pastry. There is no doubt that working people since medieval times ate some sort of morning meal, but it is unclear exactly at what time and what it consisted of. The three-meal-regimen so common today did not become a standard until well into the modern era. Peasants in the early modern world commonly ate a diet that consisted of \"gruels, pottages, and ... grains\". \n\nAs in the Middle Ages, breakfast in the sense of an early morning meal, is largely absent from the sources. It's unclear if this meant it was universally avoided or that it simply was not fashionable enough to be mentioned, as most sources were written by, for, and about the upper class.\n\nFor most of Europe, the many varieties of grain were the most important crop and formed the daily staple for segments of society. The differentiation was in the varieties, its quality and how it was prepared. The lower classes ate bread that was coarse and of considerably higher bran content while the upper classes enjoyed the finely ground, white wheat flour that most modern Europeans are used to. Wheat was considerably more expensive than other grains, and rarely eaten by many. Most bread was made with a mixture of wheat and other grains. \n\nGrain remained the undisputed main staple of early modern Europe until the 17th century. By this time the skepticism towards New World imports such as potatoes and maize had softened among the general populace, and the potato in particular found new appreciation in northern Europe, where it was a much more productive and flexible crop than wheat. In Ireland, this would later have disastrous results. In the early 19th century, when much of the country depended almost exclusively on potato, the potato blight, a fungus that rotted the edible tubers of the potato plant while still in the ground, caused a massive famine that killed over a million people and forced another two million to emigrate. In regions of Europe such as Scotland, Scandinavia and northern Russia, the climate and soil types were less suited for wheat cultivation, and rye and barley were far more important. Rye was used to bake the dense, dark bread that is still common in countries like Sweden, Russia and Finland. Barley was more common in the north, and was often used to make beer.\n\nOats made up a considerable minority of the produced grain but stood very low in status and was commonly used as animal feed, especially for horses. Millet, grown in much of Europe since prehistoric times was still used throughout much of the early period, but had largely disappeared by the 18th century although its exceptional storage period of up to twenty years meant it was used for emergency reserves. For example, the Italian dish polenta, previously made from millet, later was made with maize. Pasta had been a common food since the middle of the medieval period, and gained in popularity during the early modern period (notably in Naples, where it was not often seen until the late 18th century), but it was not yet usual to use the hard variety of durum wheat or semolina to make dried pasta until the Industrial era. Rice became established in many places, especially Italy and Spain, during the period, but was regarded as a low-status food; the well-off might occasionally have rice pudding but otherwise ignored it.\n\nPeas and beans, which made up a very large part of the diet of the medieval poor, were still often treated as a staple food, but to a diminishing extent over the period, to be replaced by cereals and the potato.\n\nNo parts of animals were wasted; blood was used in soups, for blood sausages, tripe was an ingredient in stews, soups or pies, and even cuts that clearly reminded of the live creature were readily consumed. Calf's head could be served as a separate dish, and eating eyes, tongue or cheeks was not seen as problematic; in some regions they were even considered to be delicacies.\n\nEuropean consumption of meat remained exceptional by world standards, and during the period high levels generally moved down the social scale. But the poor continued to rely mainly on eggs, dairy products, and pulses for protein. Often they did better in the less populated regions, where wild game and fish could still easily be found. The richer nations, especially England, ate considerably more meat than the poorer ones. In some areas, especially Germany and the Mediterranean counties, the meat consumption of ordinary people actually declined, beginning in about 1550, and continuing throughout the period. Increasing population seem to lie behind this trend.\n\nA map of Early Modern Europe could be drawn based on the characteristic fats that predominated: olive oil, butter and lard. These kitchen staples had not changed since Roman times, but the onset of the Little Ice Age that coincided with Early Modern Europe affected the northernmost regions where olives would flourish. Only olive oil was a subject of long-distance trade.\n\nCane sugar, native to India, was already known in Europe in the Middle Ages, expensive and mainly regarded as a medicine. From the end of the 17th century, greatly increased New World production struggled to meet the increase in European demand, so that by the end of the period the maritime nations of England, France, the Low and Iberian Countries were consuming large quantities, but other parts of Europe used it far less. At the same time, modern distinctions between sweet and savoury dishes were becoming general; meat dishes were much less likely to be sweetened than in the Middle Ages.\n\nWater as a neutral table beverage did not appear in Europe until well into the Industrial era, when efficient water purification could ensure safe drinking water. All but the poorest drank mildly alcoholic drinks on a daily basis, for every meal; wine in the south, beer in the north, east and middle Europe. Both drinks came in many varieties, vintages and at varying qualities. Those northerners who could afford to do so drank imported wines, and wine remained an integral part of the Eucharist, even for the poor. Ale had been the most common form of beer in England through most of the Middle Ages, but was mostly replaced with hopped beer from the Low Countries in the 16th century.\n\nThe art of distillation was perfected in Europe during the 15th century, and many of today's most common and familiar spirits were invented and perfected before the 18th century. Brandy (from Low German \"Brandwein\" via Dutch \"brandewijn\", meaning \"distilled wine\") first appeared in 15th-century Germany. When the English and Dutch were in fierce competition for the control of the lucrative European export market, the Dutch encouraged wine growing outside the Bordeaux area, where the English had strong connections. The result that the regions of Cognac and Armagnac became famous for producing high-quality brandy. Whisky and schnapps were produced in small household stills. Whisky became fashionable, commercialised and exported in the 19th century. Gin, grain liquor flavored with juniper, was invented by the Dutch and commercial production by Lucas Bols began in the mid-17th century. The production was later refined in England and became immensely popular among the English working classes.\n\nIn the triangular trade which began in the 16th and 17th century between Europe, North America and the Caribbean, rum was one of the most important commodities. It was made from molasses and was one of the most important products made from the sugar grown on the Caribbean Islands and in Brazil.\n\nBefore the Early modern period, the social drinks of Europe had all been alcoholic. With the increased contact with Asia and Africa and the discovery of the Americas meant that Europeans came into contact with tea, coffee and drinking chocolate. But it was not until the 17th century that all three products became popular as social beverages. The new drinks contained caffeine or theobromine, both mild stimulants that are not intoxicating in the same way as alcohol. Chocolate was the first drink to gain popularity, and was one of the preferred drinks of the Spanish nobility in the 16th and early 17th century. All three remained very expensive throughout the early modern period.\n\nAs nations began to form in Europe, the foundations of cuisine had begun to form. Although nationalization of many of today's European nations had not occurred in early modern Europe, many of the characteristics that establish a national cuisine began to emerge. These attributes included attributes such as the emergence of professional chefs, professional kitchens, the printing of codified culinary texts, and educated diners.\n\nIn France in particular, this characteristic change came from the specialization of culinary skills by-way-of guilds. The two major separations of guilds were between those who supplied raw products and those who prepared them. Those who were members of guilds, specialized in specific forms of cookery, including bakers, pastrycooks, saucemakers, poulterers, and caterers. It was through this specialization that many of the well-known French dishes of today began to take hold, but it was not until the 17th century that France's haute cuisine would begin codification with La Varenne the author of works such as Cvisinier françois and Le Parfait confitvrier, he is credited with publishing the first true French cookbook. His recipes marked a change from the style of cookery known in the Middle Ages, to new techniques aimed at creating somewhat lighter dishes, and more modest presentations of pies as individual pastries and turnovers.\n\nDuring the 15th and 16th centuries, French cuisine assimilated many new food items from the New World. Although they were slow to be adopted, records of banquets show Catherine de' Medici serving sixty-six turkeys at one dinner. The dish called cassoulet has its roots in the New World discovery of haricot beans, which are central to the dish's creation but had not existed outside of the New World until its exploration by Christopher Columbus.\n\nItaly similarly was undergoing its own shift toward a national cuisine. However, a didactic switch occurred during the early modern era which changed the cuisine from one of high court cuisine, to a regional local cuisine by the end of the era. In the beginning of the era the courts of Florence, Rome, Venice and Ferrara were an integral component to the creation of fine cooking in Italy with the court of Estes in Ferrara a central figure to the creation of this high-cuisine. A number of chefs were integral to this process, including Cristoforo di Messisbugo, steward to Ippolito d'Este, published Banchetti Composizioni di Vivande in 1549, which detailed banquets in the first half of the book, while the second half of the book featured a multitude of recipes for items such as pies and tarts (containing 124 recipes with various fillings). In 1570, Opera was written by Bartolomeo Scappi, personal chef to Pope Pius V, a five-volume work which to that date encompassed the most comprehensive example of Italian cooking. The work contained over 1,000 recipes, with information on banquets including displays and menus as well as illustrations of kitchen and table utensils. Opera was an important text as it is seen as one of the first integral works which shed game meats in favor of domesticated animals. Additionally \"alternative\" cuts of animals such as tongue, head, and shoulder appear in recipes. Seasonality to fish and seafood dishes was also featured along with emphasis on Lenten cookery. Opera also featured an early version of the Neapolitan pizza, however, it was a sweet concoction unlike today's savory dish. Turkey and maize also appear for a first time in Italy in this book.\n\nUnlike France's continued path toward high-cuisine, Italy began to show a change toward regionalism and simple cooking in the late 17th century. In 1662 the last cookbook on Italian high-cuisine was published by Bartolomeo Stefani chef to Gonzagas. L'Arte di Ben Cucinare introduced \"vitto ordinario\" (\"ordinary food\") to Italian cookery. In turn, at the beginning of the 18th century, the cookery books of Italy began to show the regionalism of Italian cuisine in order for Italian chefs to better show the pride of their regions instead of the high cuisine of France. These books were no longer addressed to professional chefs but to bourgeois housewives who could address their home cook. Originating in booklet form, periodicals such as La cuoca cremonese (The cook of Cremona) written in 1794 give a sequence of ingredients according to season along with chapters on meat, fish and vegetables. As the century progressed these books increased in size, popularity and frequency, while the price to attain them dropped well within the reach of the general populace.\n\n"}
{"id": "739597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=739597", "title": "Edward Shepherd Creasy", "text": "Edward Shepherd Creasy\n\nSir Edward Shepherd Creasy (12 September 1812 – 17 January 1878) was an English historian and jurist.\n\nHe was born the son of a Land Agent in Bexley, Kent, England and educated at Eton College (where he won the Newcastle Scholarship in 1831) and King's College, Cambridge. He was called to the Bar in 1837 and appointed assistant judge at the Westminster sessions court.\n\nIn 1840, he began teaching history at the University of London and wrote a number of historical books including \"The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World\" (1851).\n\nCreasy was knighted in 1860, and spent the next decade and a half in Ceylon as Chief Justice of Ceylon (1860 to 1875). He then returned in poor health to England and died in London on 17 January 1878.\n\nWhilst in Ceylon he served as President of the Ceylon Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society from 1861 to 1864. In July, 1864 Creasy founded the Colombo Rowing Club.\n\nCreasy's best known contribution to literature is his \"Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World\" (1851). It is typical of 19th century European sentiment, highly Eurocentric, with references to the barbarism and immorality of non-Europeans. The reason Creasy gives for the significance of many of the fifteen battles, is that they denied Eastern peoples access to European soil. Other battles are seen as \"decisive\" because they shaped the development of Britain, which was the world's leading power at the time of writing.\n\nOther works included are:\n\n\n\"Old Love and the New\" (1870) was a novel. With John Sheehan and Robert Gordon Latham, Creasy took part in contributing to \"Bentley's Miscellany\" the political squibs in verse known as the \"Tipperary Papers\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23869274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23869274", "title": "Felix A. Chami", "text": "Felix A. Chami\n\nFelix A. Chami is an archaeologist from Tanzania. He is a professor at Dar es Salaam University. Dr. Chami discovered, on the island of Mafia and Juani, artefacts that revealed East Africa as being integral to the Indian Ocean trade.\n"}
{"id": "24626389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24626389", "title": "France Klopčič", "text": "France Klopčič\n\nFrance Klopčič (25 October 1903 - 25 April 1984) was a Slovenian historian, author, translator and Communist political activist.\n\nHe was born in the town of L'Hôpital (), France, then part of the German province of Alsace-Lorraine, where his father worked as an industrial worker. In 1909, the family moved to the industrial town of Zagorje ob Savi. He attended high school in Ljubljana. Already as a teenager, he became a member of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, and became one of the leasers of the Communist Youth in Slovenia. During the 1920s, he worked as a journalist for left wing newspapers. He strongly opposed Yugoslav centralism, and advocated the establishment of a socialist and federal Yugoslavia. In 1924, he took part in the armed clash between the Communist-organized workers' units and members of the Yugoslav nationalist militiamen of the ORJUNA organization that took place in the industrial town of Trbovlje. Between 1926 and 1929, he was in the leadership of the Slovenian section of the Yugoslav Communist Party. During this period, he was arrested and imprisoned by the Yugoslav authorities on two occasions.\n\nIn 1930, he emigrated to the Soviet Union. In the mid-1930s, he was accused of counter-revolutionary activity, and imprisoned. He was released in 1945, but had to remain in the Soviet Union because of his disapproval of the Informbiro declaration. In 1956, he was released at the request of the Yugoslav authorities.\n\nAfter his return to Yugoslavia, he settled in Ljubljana, Slovenia, and became a professional historian, focusing on the history of the worker movement in Slovenia, and on the history of the Communist Party. Together with Dušan Kermavner, he was one of the foremost Communist historians of the Socialist movement in Slovenia. He was also vocal in the defence of the federalist system in Yugoslavia and of the autonomy of the single Yugoslav republics against centralist pressures.\n\nHe was also a prolific translator from Russian into Slovene. Among other, he translated several works of Lenin and Mayakovsky. In 1964, he translated Solzhenitsyn's novel \"One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich\".\n\nHe died in Ljubljana.\n\nHe was the brother of the social realist poet Mile Klopčič, and the uncle of the film director Matjaž Klopčič.\n\n"}
{"id": "4517206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4517206", "title": "Gawis cranium", "text": "Gawis cranium\n\nThe Gawis cranium is a portion of a fossil hominin skull discovered on February 16, 2006 near the drainage of Gawis, a tributary of the Awash River in the Afar Depression, Ethiopia. Despite the presence of volcanic ash layers that are key to dating, the cranium is only generally dated between 200,000 and 500,000 years ago due to taphonomic issues. \n\nThe 2006 discovery was reported by Sileshi Semaw, director of the Gona Project, which is based at the Stone Age Institute and Indiana University Bloomington's CRAFT research center.\n\nThe hominin skull was discovered by Asahmed Humet, a member of the Gona Paleoanthropological Research Project; he found the recently resurfaced fossil in a small erosion gully that empties into the Gawis river drainage basin in the Afar Region, some 300 miles northeast of Addis Ababa. The skull is a nearly complete cranium of what is believed to be a Middle Pleistocene human ancestor. While different from a modern human, the braincase, upper face and jaw of the cranium have unmistakable anatomical evidence that belong to human ancestry. The discovery was reported by Sileshi Semaw, director of the Gona Project at the Stone Age Institute. Semaw noted the skull fossil could be a transitional form that fills a gap in human evolutionary origins; he described its appearance as intermediate between \"Homo erectus\" and \"Homo sapiens\".\n\nSignificant archaeological collections of stone tools and numerous fossil animal specimens were also found at the site. \n\nGawis is in the Gona Research Project study area situated in the Awash River Valley. Immediately to the east of Gona, also located along the Awash and one of its tributaries is the site of Hadar, where in 1974 U.S. scientist Donald Johanson found the 3.2-million-year-old remains of an \"Australopithecus afarensis\", known as Lucy. The Middle Awash project, site of many other hominin discoveries, is to the south.\n\nIn addition to the Gawis cranium, the Gona project area has yielded some of the world's oldest stone tools (2.6 million years old), as well as fossils of \"Ardipithecus ramidus\"—hominid, and debated as whether or not hominin—dated to approximately 4.5 million years ago.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1176482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1176482", "title": "Geneva gown", "text": "Geneva gown\n\nThe Geneva gown, also called a pulpit gown, pulpit robe, or preaching robe, is an ecclesiastical garment customarily worn by ordained ministers in the Christian churches that arose out of the historic Protestant Reformation. It is particularly associated with Protestant churches of the Reformed and Methodist tradition.\n\nThe gown, analogous to the Western doctoral robe and similar to American judicial attire, is constructed from heavy material, most appropriately of black color, and usually features double-bell sleeves with a cuff (mimicking the cassock once worn under it) and velvet facings (or panels) running over the neck and down both sides of the front enclosure length-wise, mimicking the ecclesiastical tippet once worn over it.\n\nA minister who has earned an academic doctoral degree in any of the theological disciplines (DD, D.Min., STD, Th.D.) or in the liberal arts and sciences (PhD, DA) may adorn each sleeve with three chevrons or bars of velvet cloth in black or scarlet red, signifying senior scholarly credentials. The velvet panels of the gown's facings match the chevrons. Some doctoral gowns also have black velvet chevrons and panels, and adorned with red piping.\n\nContemporary choir robes and other expressions of lay vesture are inspired by, but remain distinct from, the Geneva gown.\n\nThe simple yet dignified gown is meant to convey the authority and solemn duty of the ordained ministry as called by God to proclaim the Gospel of Jesus and preach the biblical Word of God, the bearer being a learned minister of the Word and teaching elder (\"presbyter\") over the Church faithful.\n\nWorn over street clothes, traditionally a cassock but today more commonly a business suit with or without clerical collar, the gown eschews ostentation, obscuring individual grooming and concealing fashion preferences, and instead draws attention to the wearer's office and not the person.\n\nThe Reformed Protestant Reformers of western Europe rejected the traditional dress worn by members of the Roman Catholic Church because they disagreed with what it represented. Instead, they began attending church in their daily clothes, which happened to be long black robes due to the fact that the majority of the Reformation leaders were of the scholarly class. This was eventually defined as liturgical dress, and the traditional garment for those in leadership roles.\n\nBy convention a minister may wear the gown only at expressly Christian services of worship wherein a sermon, that is an exposition of Scripture, is delivered.\n\nWith the gown a minister may also wear preaching bands and a liturgical stole. Less typically a minister may choose to put on white gloves when distributing the elements of the Lord's Supper, a practice predating the advent of stainless steel chalices and communion trays.\n\nFor historical and theological reasons the gown is most typical of Congregational, Presbyterian and Reformed churches, that is those congregations primarily influenced by Calvinist formulations of Christian doctrine and church order. Though historically also common with Baptist and Methodist clergy, its use waned in the 20th century. During that century, there was a general shift toward a less formal religious service; this movement spread across most denominational lines. In many cases, the Geneva gown was replaced by a lounge suit.\n\nAnother liturgical movement which took place was a renewed interest in medieval liturgical practices. This was an outgrowth of the 19th century Oxford Movement which took place in the Church of England. During the later half of the 20th century, the ongoing effects of this movement began to spark interest for liturgical reforms in non-Anglican denominations in America (particularly the United Methodist Church and the Presbyterian Church). Today, it is not uncommon to find the alb worn by many mainline Protestant clergy during services. This, however, should not be seen as a revival of historical practice, but as part of general liturgical reforms which were occurring in denominations at that time.\n\nThe typical clerical dress of an Anglican minister during the 18th century was a cassock, Geneva gown, and neck bands. For this reason, the gown is sometimes (though rarely) found in \"low church\" parishes of the Anglican Communion, many whom desire a continuity with the stauncher Protestant stances of the church before the influence of the Oxford Movement. In these parishes it is usual for the gown is worn for preaching, whilst the surplice is worn for the liturgy. It is also widely used in many African-American congregations regardless of denominational affiliation. Use of the gown has also waned in Lutheran churches, though it seemed to be common during the 19th and first half of the 20th centuries. Rarely is this uniquely Protestant attire worn by Eastern Orthodox or Roman Catholic.\n\nIn the Church of Scotland, it is normal for the Geneva gown to be vented (opened at the front), sleeveless, and worn over a cassock. The cassock, usually black (like its counterpart in the Church of England), also comes in blue (signifying the Royal Blue in the Flag of Scotland, which bears the Cross of St. Andrew, the patron saint of Scotland), or scarlet red signifying a Queen's Chaplain. This practice is sometimes followed by some English Methodists and American Presbyterians, although wearing the more familiar American-style gown, including wearing a black cassock in Roman or Anglican cut.\n\nUnited or Uniting churches which contain an episcopalian element have in some countries (notably Australia; generally not in Canada) tended to abandon the Geneva gown in favor of the more symbolically ecumenical alb and cincture, whereas some non-united evangelical congregations have for various reasons done away with distinct ministerial dress altogether.\n\nSome rabbis and spiritual leaders of other non-Christian faiths have fashioned their modern religious garb patterned after the historic Geneva gown.\n\nAmong the Paleo-orthodoxy and emerging church movements in Protestant and evangelical churches, particularly Methodist, Lutheran, and Presbyterian, many clergy are reclaiming not only the traditional Eucharist vestments of alb and chasuble, but also cassock and surplice (typically a full-length Old English style) with appropriate liturgical stole, and cassock and Geneva gown for a Liturgy or Service of the Word.\n\n"}
{"id": "55433791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55433791", "title": "Hampshire Field Club", "text": "Hampshire Field Club\n\nThe Hampshire Field Club & Archaeological Society is a local history and archaeological society for Hampshire, England. It was founded in 1885 by Thomas W. Shore. It publishes a newsletter, monograms and other longer publications, and a journal \"Hampshire Studies: Proceedings of the Hampshire Field Club and Archaeological Society\". The society has published the second series of Hampshire Papers since 2015, following on from the first series which was published by the Hampshire Record Office between 1991 and 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57726569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57726569", "title": "Hans Werner Debrunner", "text": "Hans Werner Debrunner\n\nHans Werner Debrunner (1923 –1998) was a Swiss German historian and theologian whose work mainly covered mission history, West Africa and the African diaspora. He also carried out academic research on history relating to missiology in northern, eastern and southern Africa. Upon his death in 1998, his private library and archive were donated to the \"Carl Schlettwein Foundation\". The \"independent, self-contained collection\" comprises more than 3100 books and single journal issues on his area of specialty, published mostly in the first half to mid-twentieth century. Furthermore, Debrunner’s academic archives is a compilation of historiography and ethnography, particularly bio-bibliographies of Swiss missionaries and native African pastors and missionaries who worked with the Basel Mission in Africa. Debrunner also documented history, socio-political and intercultural relations between Africa and Europe. Hans Debrunner’s accounts explored the life and works of African saints, royalty, aristocrats, noblemen, political envoys, writers, intellectuals, scholars and artists who lived in or visited Europe from the early medieval period through the Enlightenment until the end of the World War I era.\n\n"}
{"id": "13574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13574", "title": "Herodotus", "text": "Herodotus\n\nHerodotus ( 484 BC – 425 BC) was an ancient Greek historian who was born in Halicarnassus in the Persian Empire (modern-day Bodrum, Turkey). He is known for having written the book \"The Histories\", a detailed record of his \"inquiry\" ( \"historía\") on the origins of the Greco-Persian Wars. He is widely considered to have been the first writer to have treated historical subjects using a method of systematic investigation—specifically, by collecting his materials and then critically arranging them into a historiographic narrative. On account of this, he is often referred to as \"The Father of History\", a title first conferred on him by the first-century BC Roman orator Cicero.\n\nDespite Herodotus's historical significance, little is known about his personal life. His \"Histories\" primarily deals with the lives of Croesus, Cyrus, Cambyses, Smerdis, Darius, and Xerxes and the battles of Marathon, Thermopylae, Artemisium, Salamis, Plataea, and Mycale; however, his many cultural, ethnographical, geographical, historiographical, and other digressions form a defining and essential part of the \"Histories\" and contain a wealth of information. Herodotus has been criticized for the fact that his book includes a large number of obvious legends and fanciful accounts. Many authors, starting with the late fifth-century BC historian Thucydides, have accused him of making up stories for entertainment. Herodotus, however, states that he is merely reporting what he has been told. A sizable portion of the information he provides has since been confirmed by historians and archaeologists.\n\nHerodotus announced the purpose and scope of his work at the beginning of his \"Histories\" as such:\n\nHis record of the achievements of others was an achievement in itself, though the extent of it has been debated. Herodotus's place in history and his significance may be understood according to the traditions within which he worked. His work is the earliest Greek prose to have survived intact. However, Dionysius of Halicarnassus, a literary critic of Augustan Rome, listed seven predecessors of Herodotus, describing their works as simple, unadorned accounts of their own and other cities and people, Greek or foreign, including popular legends, sometimes melodramatic and naïve, often charming – all traits that can be found in the work of Herodotus himself.\n\nModern historians regard the chronology as uncertain, but according to the ancient account, these predecessors included Dionysius of Miletus, Charon of Lampsacus, Hellanicus of Lesbos, Xanthus of Lydia and, the best attested of them all, Hecataeus of Miletus. Of these, only fragments of Hecataeus's works survived, and the authenticity of these is debatable, but they provide a glimpse into the kind of tradition within which Herodotus wrote his own \"Histories\".\n\nIn his introduction to Hecataeus's work, \"Genealogies\":\n\nThis points forward to the \"folksy\" yet \"international\" outlook typical of Herodotus. However, one modern scholar has described the work of Hecataeus as \"a curious false start to history\", since despite his critical spirit, he failed to liberate history from myth. Herodotus mentions Hecataeus in his \"Histories\", on one occasion mocking him for his naive genealogy and, on another occasion, quoting Athenian complaints against his handling of their national history. It is possible that Herodotus borrowed much material from Hecataeus, as stated by Porphyry in a quote recorded by Eusebius. In particular, it is possible that he copied descriptions of the crocodile, hippopotamus, and phoenix from Hecataeus's \"Circumnavigation of the Known World\" (\"Periegesis\" / \"Periodos ges\"), even misrepresenting the source as \"Heliopolitans\" (\"Histories\" 2.73).\n\nBut Hecataeus did not record events that had occurred in living memory, unlike Herodotus, nor did he include the oral traditions of Greek history within the larger framework of oriental history. There is no proof that Herodotus derived the ambitious scope of his own work, with its grand theme of civilizations in conflict, from any predecessor, despite much scholarly speculation about this in modern times. Herodotus claims to be better informed than his predecessors by relying on empirical observation to correct their excessive schematism. For example, he argues for continental asymmetry as opposed to the older theory of a perfectly circular earth with Europe and Asia/Africa equal in size (\"Histories\" 4.36 and 4.42). However, he retains idealizing tendencies, as in his symmetrical notions of the Danube and Nile.\n\nHis debt to previous authors of prose \"histories\" might be questionable, but there is no doubt that Herodotus owed much to the example and inspiration of poets and story-tellers. For example, Athenian tragic poets provided him with a world-view of a balance between conflicting forces, upset by the hubris of kings, and they provided his narrative with a model of episodic structure. His familiarity with Athenian tragedy is demonstrated in a number of passages echoing Aeschylus's \"Persae\", including the epigrammatic observation that the defeat of the Persian navy at Salamis caused the defeat of the land army (\"Histories\" 8.68 ~ \"Persae\" 728). The debt may have been repaid by Sophocles because there appear to be echoes of \"The Histories\" in his plays, especially a passage in \"Antigone\" that resembles Herodotus's account of the death of Intaphernes (\"Histories\" 3.119 ~ \"Antigone\" 904-920). However, this point is one of the most contentious issues in modern scholarship.\n\nHomer was another inspirational source. Just as Homer drew extensively on a tradition of oral poetry, sung by wandering minstrels, so Herodotus appears to have drawn on an Ionian tradition of story-telling, collecting and interpreting the oral histories he chanced upon in his travels. These oral histories often contained folk-tale motifs and demonstrated a moral, yet they also contained substantial facts relating to geography, anthropology, and history, all compiled by Herodotus in an entertaining style and format.\n\nIt is on account of the many strange stories and the folk-tales he reported that his critics in early modern times branded him \"The Father of Lies\". Even his own contemporaries found reason to scoff at his achievement. In fact, one modern scholar has wondered if Herodotus left his home in Greek Anatolia, migrating westwards to Athens and beyond, because his own countrymen had ridiculed his work, a circumstance possibly hinted at in an epitaph said to have been dedicated to Herodotus at one of his three supposed resting places, Thuria:\nYet it was in Athens where his most formidable contemporary critics could be found. In 425 BC, which is about the time that Herodotus is thought by many scholars to have died, the Athenian comic dramatist Aristophanes created \"The Acharnians\", in which he blames the Peloponnesian War on the abduction of some prostitutes – a mocking reference to Herodotus, who reported the Persians' account of their wars with Greece, beginning with the rapes of the mythical heroines Io, Europa, Medea, and Helen.\n\nSimilarly, the Athenian historian Thucydides dismissed Herodotus as a \"logos-writer\" (story-teller). Thucydides, who had been trained in rhetoric, became the model for subsequent prose-writers as an author who seeks to appear firmly in control of his material, whereas with his frequent digressions Herodotus appeared to minimize (or possibly disguise) his authorial control. Moreover, Thucydides developed a historical topic more in keeping with the Greek world-view: focused on the context of the \"polis\" or city-state. The interplay of civilizations was more relevant to Greeks living in Anatolia, such as Herodotus himself, for whom life within a foreign civilization was a recent memory.\n\nModern scholars generally turn to Herodotus's own writing for reliable information about his life, supplemented with ancient yet much later sources, such as the Byzantine \"Suda\", an 11th century encyclopaedia which possibly took its information from traditional accounts.\n\nModern accounts of his life typically go something like this: Herodotus was born at Halicarnassus around 484 BC. There is no reason to disbelieve the \"Suda\"'s information about his family: that it was influential and that he was the son of Lyxes and Dryo, and the brother of Theodorus, and that he was also related to Panyassis – an epic poet of the time. The town was within the Persian Empire at that time, making Herodotus a Persian subject, and it may be that the young Herodotus heard local eye-witness accounts of events within the empire and of Persian preparations for the invasion of Greece, including the movements of the local fleet under the command of Artemisia I of Caria. Inscriptions recently discovered at Halicarnassus indicate that her grandson Lygdamis negotiated with a local assembly to settle disputes over seized property, which is consistent with a tyrant under pressure. His name is not mentioned later in the tribute list of the Athenian Delian League, indicating that there might well have been a successful uprising against him some time before 454 BC. The epic poet Panyassis – a relative of Herodotus – is reported to have taken part in a failed uprising. Herodotus expresses affection for the island of Samos (III, 39–60), and this is an indication that he might have lived there in his youth. So it is possible that his family was involved in an uprising against Lygdamis, leading to a period of exile on Samos and followed by some personal hand in the tyrant's eventual fall.\n\nHerodotus wrote his \"Histories\" in the Ionian dialect, yet he was born in Halicarnassus, which was a Dorian settlement. According to the \"Suda\", Herodotus learned the Ionian dialect as a boy living on the island of Samos, to which he had fled with his family from the oppressions of Lygdamis, tyrant of Halicarnassus and grandson of Artemisia. The \"Suda\" also informs us that Herodotus later returned home to lead the revolt that eventually overthrew the tyrant. Due to recent discoveries of inscriptions at Halicarnassus dated to about Herodotus's time, we now know that the Ionic dialect was used in Halicarnassus in some official documents, so there is no need to assume (like the \"Suda\") that he must have learned the dialect elsewhere. Further, the \"Suda\" is the only source which we have for the role played by Herodotus as the heroic liberator of his birthplace. That itself is a good reason to doubt such a romantic account.\n\nAs Herodotus himself reveals, Halicarnassus, though a Dorian city, had ended its close relations with its Dorian neighbours after an unseemly quarrel (I, 144), and it had helped pioneer Greek trade with Egypt (II, 178). It was, therefore, an outward-looking, international-minded port within the Persian Empire, and the historian's family could well have had contacts in other countries under Persian rule, facilitating his travels and his researches.\n\nHerodotus's eye-witness accounts indicate that he traveled in Egypt in association with Athenians, probably some time after 454 BC or possibly earlier, after an Athenian fleet had assisted the uprising against Persian rule in 460–454 BC. He probably traveled to Tyre next and then down the Euphrates to Babylon. For some reason, possibly associated with local politics, he subsequently found himself unpopular in Halicarnassus, and some time around 447 BC, migrated to Periclean Athens – a city whose people and democratic institutions he openly admires (V, 78). Athens was also the place where he came to know the local topography (VI, 137; VIII, 52–5), as well as leading citizens such as the Alcmaeonids, a clan whose history features frequently in his writing.\n\nAccording to Eusebius and Plutarch, Herodotus was granted a financial reward by the Athenian assembly in recognition of his work. It is possible that he unsuccessfully applied for Athenian citizenship, a rare honour after 451 BC, requiring two separate votes by a well-attended assembly.\n\nIn 443 BC or shortly afterwards, he migrated to Thurium as part of an Athenian-sponsored colony. Aristotle refers to a version of \"The Histories\" written by \"Herodotus of Thurium\", and some passages in the \"Histories\" have been interpreted as proof that he wrote about southern Italy from personal experience there (IV, 15,99; VI, 127). Intimate knowledge of some events in the first years of the Peloponnesian War (VI, 91; VII, 133, 233; IX, 73) indicate that he might have returned to Athens, in which case it is possible that he died there during an outbreak of the plague. Possibly he died in Macedonia instead, after obtaining the patronage of the court there; or else he died back in Thurium. There is nothing in the \"Histories\" that can be dated to later than 430 BC with any certainty, and it is generally assumed that he died not long afterwards, possibly before his sixtieth year.\n\nHerodotus would have made his researches known to the larger world through oral recitations to a public crowd. John Marincola writes in his introduction to the Penguin edition of \"The Histories\" that there are certain identifiable pieces in the early books of Herodotus's work which could be labeled as \"performance pieces\". These portions of the research seem independent and \"almost detachable\", so that they might have been set aside by the author for the purposes of an oral performance. The intellectual matrix of the 5th century, Marincola suggests, comprised many oral performances in which philosophers would dramatically recite such detachable pieces of their work. The idea was to criticize previous arguments on a topic and emphatically and enthusiastically insert their own in order to win over the audience.\n\nIt was conventional in Herodotus's day for authors to \"publish\" their works by reciting them at popular festivals. According to Lucian, Herodotus took his finished work straight from Anatolia to the Olympic Games and read the entire \"Histories\" to the assembled spectators in one sitting, receiving rapturous applause at the end of it. According to a very different account by an ancient grammarian, Herodotus refused to begin reading his work at the festival of Olympia until some clouds offered him a bit of shade – by which time the assembly had dispersed. (Hence the proverbial expression \"Herodotus and his shade\" to describe someone who misses an opportunity through delay.) Herodotus's recitation at Olympia was a favourite theme among ancient writers, and there is another interesting variation on the story to be found in the \"Suda\": that of Photius and Tzetzes, in which a young Thucydides happened to be in the assembly with his father, and burst into tears during the recital. Herodotus observed prophetically to the boy's father, \"Your son's soul yearns for knowledge.\"\n\nEventually, Thucydides and Herodotus became close enough for both to be interred in Thucydides' tomb in Athens. Such at least was the opinion of Marcellinus in his \"Life of Thucydides\". According to the \"Suda\", he was buried in Macedonian Pella and in the agora in Thurium.\n\n\"The Histories\" were occasionally criticized in antiquity, but modern historians and philosophers generally take a positive view. Despite the controversy, Herodotus still serves as the primary, and often only, source for events in the Greek world, Persian Empire, and the region generally in the two centuries leading up until his own day. Herodotus, like many ancient historians, preferred an element of show to purely analytic history, aiming to give pleasure with \"exciting events, great dramas, bizarre exotica.\" As such, certain passages have been the subject of controversy and even some doubt, both in antiquity and today.\n\nThe accuracy of the works of Herodotus has been controversial since his own era. Cicero Aristotle, Josephus, Duris of Samos, Harpocration and Plutarch all commented on this controversy. Generally, however, he was regarded as reliable in antiquity, and is especially so today. Many scholars, ancient and modern, routinely cite Herodotus (e.g., Aubin, A. H. L. Heeren, Davidson, Cheikh Anta Diop, Poe, Welsby, Celenko, Volney, Pierre Montet, Bernal, Jackson, DuBois, Strabo). Many of these scholars (Welsby, Heeren, Aubin, Diop, etc.) explicitly mention the reliability of Herodotus's work and demonstrate corroboration of Herodotus's writings by modern scholars. A. H. L. Heeren quoted Herodotus throughout his work and provided corroboration by scholars regarding several passages (source of the Nile, location of Meroe, etc.). To further his work on the Egyptians and Assyrians, Aubin uses Herodotus's accounts in various passages and defends Herodotus's position. Aubin said that Herodotus was \"the author of the first important narrative history of the world\". Diop provides several examples (the inundations of the Nile) which, he argues, support his view that Herodotus was \"quite scrupulous, objective, scientific for his time.\" Diop argues that Herodotus \"always distinguishes carefully between what he has seen and what he has been told.\" Diop also notes that Strabo corroborated Herodotus's ideas about the Black Egyptians, Ethiopians, and Colchians.\nThe reliability of Herodotus' writing about Egypt is sometimes criticized. Alan B. Lloyd argues that, as a historical document, the writings of Herodotus are seriously defective, and that he was working from \"inadequate sources\". Nielsen writes: \"Though we cannot entirely rule out the possibility of Herodotus having been in Egypt, it must be said that his narrative bears little witness to it.\" German historian Detlev Fehling questions whether Herodotus ever traveled up the Nile River, and considers doubtful almost everything that he says about Egypt and Ethiopia. Fehling states that \"there is not the slightest bit of history behind the whole story\" about the claim of Herodotus that Pharaoh Sesostris campaigned in Europe, and that he left a colony in Colchia.\n\nHerodotus provides much information about the nature of the world and the status of science during his lifetime, often engaging in private speculation. For example, he reports that the annual flooding of the Nile was said to be the result of melting snows far to the south, and he comments that he cannot understand how there can be snow in Africa, the hottest part of the known world, offering an elaborate explanation based on the way that desert winds affect the passage of the Sun over this part of the world (2:18ff). He also passes on reports from Phoenician sailors that, while circumnavigating Africa, they \"saw the sun on the right side while sailing westwards\". Owing to this brief mention, which is included almost as an afterthought, it has been argued that Africa was circumnavigated by ancient seafarers, for this is precisely where the sun ought to have been. His accounts of India are among the oldest records of Indian civilization by an outsider.\n\nDiscoveries made since the end of the 19th century have generally added to Herodotus's credibility. He described Gelonus, located in Scythia, as a city thousands of times larger than Troy; this was widely disbelieved until it was rediscovered in 1975. The archaeological study of the now-submerged ancient Egyptian city of Heracleion and the recovery of the so-called \"Naucratis stela\" give credibility to Herodotus's previously unsupported claim that Heracleion was founded during the Egyptian New Kingdom.\nAfter journeys to India and Pakistan, French ethnologist Michel Peissel claimed to have discovered an animal species that may illuminate one of the most bizarre passages in Herodotus's \"Histories\". In Book 3, passages 102 to 105, Herodotus reports that a species of fox-sized, furry \"ants\" lives in one of the far eastern, Indian provinces of the Persian Empire. This region, he reports, is a sandy desert, and the sand there contains a wealth of fine gold dust. These giant ants, according to Herodotus, would often unearth the gold dust when digging their mounds and tunnels, and the people living in this province would then collect the precious dust. Peissel reports that, in an isolated region of northern Pakistan on the Deosai Plateau in Gilgit–Baltistan province, there is a species of marmot – the Himalayan marmot, a type of burrowing squirrel – that may have been what Herodotus called giant ants. The ground of the Deosai Plateau is rich in gold dust, much like the province that Herodotus describes. According to Peissel, he interviewed the Minaro tribal people who live in the Deosai Plateau, and they have confirmed that they have, for generations, been collecting the gold dust that the marmots bring to the surface when they are digging their underground burrows. Later authors such as Pliny the Elder mentioned this story in the gold mining section of his \"Naturalis Historia\". Peissel offers the theory that Herodotus may have confused the old Persian word for \"marmot\" with the word for \"mountain ant\". Research suggests that Herodotus probably did not know any Persian (or any other language except his native Greek) and was forced to rely on many local translators when travelling in the vast multilingual Persian Empire. Herodotus did not claim to have personally seen the creatures which he described. Herodotus did, though, follow up in passage 105 of Book 3 with the claim that the \"ants\" are said to chase and devour full-grown camels.\n\nSome \"calumnious fictions\" were written about Herodotus in a work titled \"On the Malice of Herodotus\" by Plutarch, a Chaeronean by birth, (or it might have been a Pseudo-Plutarch, in this case \"a great collector of slanders\"), including the allegation that the historian was prejudiced against Thebes because the authorities there had denied him permission to set up a school. Similarly, in a \"Corinthian Oration\", Dio Chrysostom (or yet another pseudonymous author) accused the historian of prejudice against Corinth, sourcing it in personal bitterness over financial disappointments – an account also given by Marcellinus in his \"Life of Thucydides\". In fact, Herodotus was in the habit of seeking out information from empowered sources within communities, such as aristocrats and priests, and this also occurred at an international level, with Periclean Athens becoming his principal source of information about events in Greece. As a result, his reports about Greek events are often coloured by Athenian bias against rival states – Thebes and Corinth in particular.\n\n\"The Histories\" were sometimes criticized in antiquity, but modern historians and philosophers take a more positive view of Herodotus's methodology, especially those searching for a paradigm of objective historical writing. A few modern scholars have argued that Herodotus exaggerated the extent of his travels and invented his sources, yet his reputation continues largely intact. Herodotus is variously considered \"father of comparative anthropology\", \"the father of ethnography\", and \"more modern than any other ancient historian in his approach to the ideal of total history\".\n\nIt is clear from the beginning of Book 1 of the \"Histories\" that Herodotus utilizes (or at least claims to utilize) various sources in his narrative. K.H. Waters relates that \"Herodotos did not work from a purely Hellenic standpoint; he was accused by the patriotic but somewhat imperceptive Plutarch of being \"philobarbaros\", a pro-barbarian or pro-foreigner.\"\n\nHerodotus at times relates various accounts of the same story. For example, in Book 1 he mentions both the Phoenician and the Persian accounts of Io. However, Herodotus at times arbitrates between varying accounts: \"I am not going to say that these events happened one way or the other. Rather, I will point out the man \"who I know for a fact\" began the wrong-doing against the Greeks.\" Again, later, Herodotus claims himself as an authority: \"I know this is how it happened because I heard it from the Delphians myself.\"\n\nThroughout his work, Herodotus attempts to explain the actions of people. Speaking about Solon the Athenian, Herodotus states \"[Solon] sailed away on the pretext of seeing the world, \"but it was really so that he could not be compelled to repeal any of the laws he had laid down\".\" Again, in the story about Croesus and his son's death, when speaking of Adrastus (the man who accidentally killed Croesus' son), Herodotus states: \"Adrastus ... \"believing himself to be the most ill-fated man he had ever known\", cut his own throat over the grave.\"\n\nWhile Herodotus had not met these people whom he is discussing, he claims to understand their thoughts and intentions.\n\nHerodotus writes with the purpose of \"explaining\"; that is, he discusses the reason for or cause of for an event. He lays this out in the proem: \"This is the publication of the research of Herodotus of Halicarnassus, so that the actions of people shall not fade with time, so that the great and admirable achievements of both Greeks and barbarians shall not go unrenowned, and, among other things, \"to set forth the reasons why they waged war on each other\".\"\n\nThis mode of explanation traces itself all the way back to Homer, who opened the \"Iliad\" by asking:\n\nBoth Homer and Herodotus begin with a question of causality. In Homer's case, \"who set these two at each other's throats?\" In Herodotus's case, \"Why did the Greeks and barbarians go to war with each other?\"\n\nHerodotus's means of explanation does not necessarily posit a simple cause; rather, his explanations cover a host of potential causes and emotions. It is notable, however, that \"the obligations of gratitude and revenge are the fundamental human motives for Herodotus, just as ... they are the primary stimulus to the generation of narrative itself.\"\n\nSome readers of Herodotus believe that his habit of tying events back to personal motives signifies an inability to see broader and more abstract reasons for action. Gould argues to the contrary that this is likely because Herodotus attempts to provide the rational reasons, as understood by his contemporaries, rather than providing more abstract reasons.\n\nHerodotus attributes cause to both divine and human agents. These are not perceived as mutually exclusive, but rather mutually interconnected. This is true of Greek thinking in general, at least from Homer onward. Gould notes that invoking the supernatural in order to explain an event does not answer the question \"why did this happen?\" but rather \"why did this happen to me?\" By way of example, faulty craftsmanship is the human cause for a house collapsing. However, divine will is the reason that the house collapses at the particular moment when I am inside. It was the will of the gods that the house collapsed while a particular individual was within it, whereas it was the cause of man that the house had a weak structure and was prone to falling.\n\nSome authors, including Geoffrey de Ste-Croix and Mabel Lang, have argued that Fate, or the belief that \"this is how it had to be,\" is Herodotus's ultimate understanding of causality. Herodotus's explanation that an event \"was going to happen\" maps well on to Aristotelean and Homeric means of expression. The idea of \"it was going to happen\" reveals a \"tragic discovery\" associated with fifth-century drama. This tragic discovery can be seen in Homer's, \"Iliad\" as well.\n\nJohn Gould argues that Herodotus should be understood as falling in a long line of story-tellers, rather than thinking of his means of explanation as a \"philosophy of history\" or \"simple causality\". Thus, according to Gould, Herodotus's means of explanation is a mode of story-telling and narration that has been passed down from generations prior:\n\nAlthough Herodotus considered his \"inquiries\" a serious pursuit of knowledge, he was not above relating entertaining tales derived from the collective body of myth, but he did so judiciously with regard for his historical method, by corroborating the stories through enquiry and testing their probability. While the gods never make personal appearances in his account of human events, Herodotus states emphatically that \"many things prove to me that the gods take part in the affairs of man\" (IX, 100).\n\nIn Book One, passages 23 and 24, Herodotus relates the story of Arion, the renowned harp player, \"second to no man living at that time,\" who was saved by a dolphin. Herodotus prefaces the story by noting that \"a very wonderful thing is said to have happened,\" and alleges its veracity by adding that the \"Corinthians and the Lesbians agree in their account of the matter.\" Having become very rich while at the court of Periander, Arion conceived a desire to sail to Italy and Sicily. He hired a vessel crewed by Corinthians, whom he felt he could trust, but the sailors plotted to throw him overboard and seize his wealth. Arion discovered the plot and begged for his life, but the crew gave him two options: that either he kill himself on the spot or jump ship and fend for himself in the sea. Arion flung himself into the water, and a dolphin carried him to shore.\n\nHerodotus clearly writes as both historian and teller of tales. Herodotus takes a fluid position between the artistic story-weaving of Homer and the rational data-accounting of later historians. John Herrington has developed a helpful metaphor for describing Herodotus's dynamic position in the history of Western art and thought – Herodotus as centaur:\n\nHerodotus is neither a mere gatherer of data nor a simple teller of tales – he is both. While Herodotus is certainly concerned with giving accurate accounts of events, this does not preclude for him the insertion of powerful mythological elements into his narrative, elements which will aid him in expressing the truth of matters under his study. Thus to understand what Herodotus is doing in the \"Histories\", we must not impose strict demarcations between the man as mythologist and the man as historian, or between the work as myth and the work as history. As James Romm has written, Herodotus worked under a common ancient Greek cultural assumption that the way events are remembered and retold (e.g. in myths or legends) produces a valid kind of understanding, even when this retelling is not entirely factual. For Herodotus, then, it takes both myth and history to produce truthful understanding.\n\n\nSeveral English translations of \"The Histories of Herodotus\" are readily available in multiple editions. The most readily available are those translated by:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17122871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17122871", "title": "Ignaz Agricola", "text": "Ignaz Agricola\n\nIgnaz Agricola (July 31, 1661 – January 23, 1729) was a German Jesuit.\n\nAgricola was born in Zusamaltheim in the Bishopric of Augsburg. He entered the Jesuit order on September 28, 1677, and studied in Jesuit schools, philosophy for three years and theology for four years. He then taught in Jesuit schools for a number of years: grammar for two years, poetry for two years, rhetoric for seven years, and logic for two years. He spent much of this time in Munich, where in 1719 he was president of the \"Sodalitas major\", and where he died in 1729.\n\nHis wrote a well-known history of the Jesuit order, \"Historia Provinciae Societatis Jesu Germaniae superioris, quinque primas annorum complexa decades\" (1727).\n"}
{"id": "43679049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43679049", "title": "Jalmari Jaakkola", "text": "Jalmari Jaakkola\n\nKaarle Jalmari Jaakkola (1 January 1885 – 12 February 1964) was a Finnish historian and a professor of Finnish history at the University of Helsinki between 1932 and 1954. Jaakkola is known as a historian who primarily researched medieval history and sought to put forth that Finland existed as an entity already during that period. Some of Jaakkola's hypotheses are today considered to be overtly nationalist and outdated, but his influence during his lifetime remains undisputed.\n\nHis other research interests included the historical origins of the Birkarls and Kvens, and the historical background of Kalevala epic poetry.\n\nJaakkola was born in Eurajoki to a peasant family of Markus Jaakkola and Johanna Fredrika Nuorante. He completed student matriculation in 1905 and studied history and Finnish language at the University of Helsinki. He made studying journeys to Germany and Sweden, and graduated with a bachelor's degree in 1909, a licentiate in 1921, and a PhD in 1923. The subject of his doctoral thesis was the legend of Eric IX of Sweden and its authenticity.\n\nHe worked as a teacher and a headmaster until he was appointed a docent of Nordic history in 1923, and later a professor of Finnish history in 1932.\n\nThe focus of his research was the medieval period of Finnish history, as he endeavoured to write a history extending from the ancient times for the newly independent country. He emphasized Finnish position in the Western sphere of influence and concentrated on the history of his home region, Satakunta. Jaakkola supported his historical research with toponymy, ethnopoetics, epic poetry, and sometimes extensive speculation. Many of Jaakkola's assertions have been refuted by later research.\n\nBetween 1935 and 1959, Jaakkola published an extensive five-volume synthesis on Finnish history from the Viking Age to the sixteenth century. The series is especially speculative in regard to the sections on history prior to the fourteenth century, although the books included almost all sources available in the Finnish history. The works were criticized by archaeologists at the time of their release. Despite this criticism, Jaakkola decided not to do any major changes for the reprints.\n\nThe central theme of the series was the medieval political history of Finland, during which, as Jaakkola argued, there was a period of ancient independence during which the country guarded its own interests. He envisioned Finland almost as a fourth member of the Kalmar Union, instead of an insignificant part of Sweden. The most theoretically sustainable conclusions of Jaakkola include viewing the Swedish crusades to Finland as more of a peaceful transition to Swedish rule and Catholicism rather than as a period of conflict. Jaakkola wanted to continue his series to cover the twentieth century, and the work was carried on by his students who wrote two works on the period of the Swedish rule, but after Jaakkola died in 1964, the series was discontinued.\n\nAfter the Winter War, Jaakkola wrote the concise presentation of Finnish history, \"Suomen historian ääriviivat\", which was meant for readers abroad. It was translated into several languages. During the Continuation War, President Risto Ryti commissioned Jaakkola to write \"Die Ostfrage Finnlands\" (1941), to argue for Finnish territorial expansion eastwards to the Kola Peninsula and East Karelia. Jaakkola's writing took on a nationalist and even German nationalist tone as he attempted to justify the Finnish expansion.\n\nDespite the difficult style and academic nature of Jalmari Jaakkola's works, his influence on contemporary beliefs is considered to have been extensive. He chose the text, \"The seer of early Finnish history\", for his 75th anniversary memorial medal. He was the editor of the scientific journal \"Historiallinen aikakauskirja\" between 1935 and 1959. Jaakkola was awarded an honorary degree from the faculty of theology at the University of Helsinki and the faculty of philosophy at the University of Turku.\n\nJaakkola married Katie Jansson in 1915, with whom he had one child.\n\n"}
{"id": "8886184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8886184", "title": "John of Trokelowe", "text": "John of Trokelowe\n\nJohn of Trokelowe was an English Benedictine of the fourteenth century. He was a monk of St Albans Abbey, who in 1294 was living in the dependent priory of Tynemouth, Northumberland. Once he was thought to be a significant chronicler, on the basis of internal evidence, it is now considered very possible that he was merely the scribe for William Rishanger.\n\nThe prior and monks endeavoured to sever connection with St Albans and to obtain independence by presenting the advowson to the king; but abbot John of Berkamsted resisted this arrangement, visited Tynemouth, and sent Trokelowe with other monks as prisoners back to St Albans. There Trokelowe wrote his \"Annales\" including the period 1259 to 1296 and a useful account of the reign of Edward II of England, from 1307 to 1323, after which date his chronicle was continued by Henry de Blaneford. A reference made by Trokelowe to the execution of Roger Mortimer shows that he was writing after 1330.\n\nRoman Funerary Art\n\n"}
{"id": "2475923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2475923", "title": "José Antonio Conde", "text": "José Antonio Conde\n\nJosé Antonio Conde y García (1766–1820) was a Spanish Orientalist and historian of Al-Andalus period. His \"Anacreon\" (1791) obtained him a post in the royal library in 1795. He also published several paraphrases of Greek classics. These were followed in 1799 by an edition of the Arabic text of Muhammad al-Idrisi's \"Description of Spain\", with notes and a translation. As an afrancesado, he fled Spain in 1813, but returned a year later and was eventually reinstated to his honors. His \"magnum opus\", the three-volume \"Historia de la Dominación de los Árabes en España,\" was published after his death.\n\nConde was educated at the university of Alcalá. He published a translation of the works of the Greek poet \"Anacreon\" in 1795. In 1796–1797, he published paraphrases from Theocritus, Bion, Moschus, Sappho and Meleager. In 1799, these were followed by an edition of the Arabic text of Muhammad al-Idrisi's \"Description of Spain\", with notes and a translation, making him among the first modern western historians to translate an important Arabic text. Conde became a member of the Spanish Academy in 1802. He succeeded Tomás Antonio Sánchez de Uribe to the so-called \"G\" seat. Conde was a member also of Academy of Sciences and Letters of Berlin.\n\nIn 1804, Conde was accepted to membership of the Royal Academy of History, but his appointment as interpreter to Joseph Bonaparte and his being an \"afrancesado\" (French sympathizer) led to his expulsion from both the Academy of History and the Spanish Academy in 1814. He escaped to France in 1813, but returned a year later. He was not permitted to reside at Madrid until 1816. Two years later he was re-elected to his former seats by both academies.\n\nConde died in poverty on the 12 June 1820. George Ticknor, American Hispanist at Harvard University and several Spanish friends Leandro Fernández de Moratín, Francisco Martínez de la Rosa and Agustín Argüelles paid his funeral expenses.\n\nConde born at La Peraleja, Cuenca, in present-day Spain on 28 October 1766. He married a 20-year-old cousin of Leandro Fernández de Moratin, who died in childbirth in September 1817.\n\nHis major work, \"Historia de la Dominación de los Árabes en España\", was published in 1820–1821. He completed only the first volume before his death. Juan Tineo compiled volumes two and three from Conde's manuscript. This work was translated into German (1824–1825), French (1825) and English (1854). Although it has since been superseded by other works, Conde's work stimulated others in the same field and in the context of time it was considered a valuable work.\n\n"}
{"id": "39282972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39282972", "title": "Kaiserpanorama", "text": "Kaiserpanorama\n\nThe Kaiserpanorama (or Kaiser-Panorama) is a form of stereoscopic entertainment medium used chiefly in the 19th and early 20th centuries, a precursor to film, invented by August Fuhrmann (1844 – 1925). It was patented by the inventor ca. 1890. There would be a number of viewing stations through which people would peer through a pair of lenses showing a number of rotating stereoscopic glass slides. By 1910 he is said to have controlled exhibitions in over 250 branches across Europe, and in the central archive have up to 100,000 slides stored.\n\nA kaiserpanorama would normally have around 25 wooden stations, each with a pair of viewing lenses. Inside the device there would be a rotating mechanism showing numerous stereoscopic images on rear-illuminated glass, giving a 3D effect.\nVarious modern reconstructions as well as few authentic, remaining kaiserpanoramas exist in the Munich Stadtmuseum, Wels, German Historical Museum, the Märkisches Museum (Berlin), Neugersdorf, Pioneer Settlement (Swan Hill, Australia), Muzeum Kinematografii (Łódź, Poland), Deutsches Technikmuseum (Berlin), the Dusseldorf Film Museum and Teylers Museum (Haarlem, Holland). Another example is the Warsaw Fotoplastikon, built in 1905, which, despite very similar design, is not under the name kaiserpanorama.\nDuring the German occupation, it was used by the Polish resistance as a meeting point.\nThere was a dismantled kaiserpanorama in Snibston Discovery Museum in Coalville, Leicestershire, UK. However, since the museum is now closed, the item is now in storage and under the care of Leicester City Council.\n\nThe museum of the occupation at the Oskar Schindler's Enamel Factory in Kraków, Poland, uses a fotoplastikon to show historical pictures.\n\n"}
{"id": "130339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130339", "title": "Langston, Oklahoma", "text": "Langston, Oklahoma\n\nLangston is a town in Logan County, Oklahoma, United States, and is part of the Oklahoma City Metropolitan Statistical Area. The population was 1,724 at the 2010 census, an increase of 3.2 percent from 1,670 at the 2000 census. Langston is home to Langston University, the only historically black college in Oklahoma.\n\nLangston was founded on April 22, 1890 by Edward P. McCabe, an African-American political figure from Kansas. McCabe helped lead a migration of black settlers from southern U.S. states who hoped to escape discrimination by creating a majority-black state in what was then the Territory of Oklahoma. He named the town for John Mercer Langston, a black member of the 51st United States Congress from Virginia. McCabe used traveling salesmen and African-American newspapers to advertise lots for sale in Langston, and the deeds which accompanied the sale of these lots stipulated that their re-sale could only be to other African-Americans.\n\nBy 1891, Langston had a population of 200, which included a preacher, doctor, and schoolteacher. By 1892, the town had 25 businesses, with a bank and a public school. A Roman Catholic mission was established in 1893 by Rev. Bishop Theophile Meerschaert and the Benedictine Sisters. The town had a telephone system in service in 1895. In 1897, the Oklahoma Territorial Legislature passed a law creating the Colored Agricultural and Normal University at Langston (which later became Langston University).\n\nLangston is northeast of Guthrie, the Logan County seat, on State Highway 33.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of , all of it land.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 1,670 people, 199 households, and 92 families residing in the town. The population density was 896.5 people per square mile (346.7/km²). There were 246 housing units at an average density of 132.1 per square mile (51.1/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 3.29% White, 93.29% African American, 1.26% Native American, 0.24% from other races, and 1.92% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.32% of the population.\n\nThere were 199 households out of which 27.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 16.1% were married couples living together, 27.1% had a female householder with no husband present, and 53.3% were non-families. 37.7% of all households were made up of individuals and 12.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.25 and the average family size was 3.14.\n\nIn the town, the population was spread out with 7.6% under the age of 18, 75.3% from 18 to 24, 8.4% from 25 to 44, 4.9% from 45 to 64, and 3.8% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 21 years. For every 100 females, there were 86.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 85.9 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $14,722, and the median income for a family was $26,042. Males had a median income of $23,750 versus $20,417 for females. The per capita income for the town was $17,602. About 23.5% of families and 33.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 26.1% of those under age 18 and 40.0% of those age 65 or over.\n\nIn the 2016 presidential election, the city gave over 90% of the vote to the Democratic Party candidate Hillary Clinton.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7652001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7652001", "title": "Lenape Stone", "text": "Lenape Stone\n\nThe Lenape Stone is a piece of slate found in Bucks County, Pennsylvania in 1872, which appears to depict Native Americans hunting a woolly mammoth. This image, however, seems to have been carved some time after the stone was broken into two; for this and other reasons, it is generally considered an archaeological forgery.\n\nThe first portion of the stone is reported to have been found in Bucks County by Barnard Hansell, a farmer, in the spring of 1872. In 1881, Hansell sold the fragment to Henry Paxon, a young man with an interest in Native American artifacts. A few months later, Hansell reported finding the second piece of the stone in the same field where he had unearthed the first.\n\nOnce the two pieces were joined, they were examined by members of the Bucks County Historical Society, including archaeologist and historian Henry Chapman Mercer. Despite evidence which cast doubt on the stone's origin, Mercer came to be an ardent proponent of its authenticity, an argument which he put forth in his 1885 book, \"The Lenape Stone, or the Indian and the Mammoth\". However, even Mercer acknowledged that the stone's unique nature and a lack of physical evidence (such as soil samples) made scientific certainty impossible.\n\nThe stone is currently housed at the Mercer Museum in Doylestown, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe Lenape Stone is a small piece of slate, about long, and is hypothesised to have been a gorget, a type of ornamental necklace. Supporting this theory are the two holes drilled into the stone which would have enabled it to be worn about the neck. The stone comprises two fragments, each of which is decorated with clear engravings on both sides; they form a complete picture when the two halves are joined. On one side there are numerous depictions of turtles, fish, birds, and snakes. The reverse side shows an elephant-like creature, apparently a mammoth, along with humanoid figures, a forest, some teepees, and other markings. The humanoid figures are engaged in battle with the mammoth, and one even appears to have been trampled by it.\n\nThere is much evidence against the authenticity of the Lenape Stone. Mammoths are thought to have become extinct in North America around 10,000 years ago, while most gorgets uncovered in archaeological digs are less than 2,000 years old. In addition, other artifacts found in the same field as the Lenape Stone bore stylistically similar carvings, and these were all dated to around 2,000 years ago. There were no witnesses to verify the circumstances under which either fragment of the stone was found, and after it was found, the stone was cleaned multiple times, making geological tests virtually impossible. The carvings on each half of the stone appear not to match up perfectly, which may indicate that they were made after the stone was broken. The stone, therefore, was probably a forgery, the motive for which may have been money, as the stone was sold soon after its discovery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42422651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42422651", "title": "Mary W.M. Hargreaves", "text": "Mary W.M. Hargreaves\n\nMary Wilma Massey Hargreaves (March 1, 1914 – August 29, 2008), a scholar of U.S. agricultural history, was the first woman at the University of Kentucky to reach the rank of full professor in the Department of History. Her areas of research included the agricultural history of the Northern Great Plains, dry land agriculture and land utilization. She was a Brookings Institution scholar, editor of the Henry Clay Papers and served in leadership roles in the Organization of American Historians, the Southern Historical Association; in 1975 was elected president of the Agricultural History Society. She also served as a local and state officer in the American Association of University Women.\n\nBorn on March 1, 1914, in Erie, Pennsylvania, Mary Wilma Massey was an only child. She attended East High School, and she enjoyed swimming as well as track and field sports. An excellent student she won a full scholarship to Bucknell University and graduated in 1935 with a triple major in history, English and the social studies. She earned her master's degree in history from Radcliffe College/Harvard University in 1936, and she served as a research editor at the Harvard University School of Business Administration. She began her work on the Ph.D. as a doctoral candidate at Radcliffe writing about settlement in the American West, working under an exponent of the thesis of Frederick Jackson Turner - mentored by Harvard historian Frederick Merk. While at Harvard in 1939, she became a junior fellow at the Brookings Institution, a liberal think tank in Washington, D.C.\n\nAt Brookings, she met Herbert Walter \"Walt\" Hargreaves, who was finishing up his Ph.D. in economics from Duke University. They married on August 24, 1940, and she followed her husband when he was hired to teach at what is now the University of Texas at El Paso. Walt Hargreaves joined up during World War II, and they moved to various posts for his training. He served also as a member of the economic reconstruction delegation to Germany, and for most of the war she lived in Brooklyn, New York. Soon after the war, Walt Hargreaves was hired as a professor of economics at the University of Kentucky in Lexington.\n\nWhen they arrived in Kentucky, Mary Wilma Hargreaves met Thomas D. Clark in the History Department who invited her to guest lecture in his classes on American land policy, the subject of her dissertation. Finally, in 1951, Mary Wilma Hargreaves earned her Ph.D. in history from Harvard University. She applied for a job in the University's History Department, but instead was hired as a typist for James F. Hopkins who had been working on gathering the letters and works of Henry Clay for a bound series. By 1957 with a grant from the Eli Lilly Endowment and sponsored as part of a program by the National Archives and Records Division, Hopkins was appointed editor-in-chief of the Henry Clay Papers and Hargreaves was hired as associate editor. Together they edited the first five volumes of the series.\n\nHargreaves was finally hired as a professor in the University of Kentucky History Department in 1964 to teach courses on the American frontier and economic history of the U.S. She remained associate editor of the Henry Clay Papers until 1974 when she then became co-editor and project director. She was promoted to full professor in 1973 - the first woman in the department's history to do so.\n\nShe wrote three major works, two of which focused on the economic history of the agricultural practices used in the high plains, with interpretations on the formation of national land policy and the socioeconomic problems associated with that. Her book \"Dry Farming the Northern Great Plains, 1900-1925\" (Harvard, 1957) was a part of the prestigious Harvard Economic Studies series (Volume 101) and went through nine editions.\n\nBy the 1970s she was writing important groundbreaking articles to update and expand upon her original work on the history of the American west, broadening her analysis to include studies of women's critical roles in agriculture and the settlement of the Great Plains. She followed in Thomas D. Clark's footsteps when she won the Theodore Hallam Professor Award of the UK History Department for outstanding achievement.\n\nShe served on many boards, including the Henry Clay Memorial Foundation which acquired Ashland, the estate of Henry Clay.\n\nHargreaves retired from the University of Kentucky in 1984 and was named professor emerita. She continued to work as a scholar and community activist, living with her husband in Lexington on Cassidy Avenue. During her retirement she produced a volume for the University Press of Kansas' American Presidency series: \"The Presidency of John Quincy Adams\" (Lawrence, Kansas, 1985). Her book \"Dry Farming in the Northern Great Plains: Years of Readjustment, 1920-1990\" (Lawrence, Kansas, 1993) followed up on the topic of her first study and was awarded the Theodore Saloutos book prize by the Agricultural History Society. It is still widely regarded as a standard work on that topic.\n\nShe was an active member of the First United Methodist Church in Lexington and left a legacy for the Kentucky United Methodist Homes for Children and Youth. Her activism in organizations included animal rights. She especially loved her many golden retrievers. She and her husband enjoyed classical music as well as ballroom dancing at Arthur Murray studios. After a brief illness, Hargreaves died on August 29, 2008, in Lexington, Kentucky at age 94.\n\nBesides the First United Methodist legacy, Hargreaves also upon her death endowed a general fund scholarship at the University of Nevada, Reno. A University of Kentucky Graduate School fellowship was named in her memory to provide financial support for graduate student travel, both for dissertation related research and for presentations at scholarly conferences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27708116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27708116", "title": "Minerva (archaeology magazine)", "text": "Minerva (archaeology magazine)\n\nMinerva, The International Review of Ancient Art and Archaeology, is a bi-monthly magazine publishing features on exhibitions, excavations, and museums, interviews, travelogues, auction reports, news items, and book reviews. \n\n\"Minerva\" was established in 1990 by Jerome Eisenberg. The magazine is published by Clear Media, a division of the Media Circus Group. It contains articles by experts on the ancient art and archaeology of Egypt and the Middle East, the Graeco-Roman world and the Mediterranean, the Near East, the Far East, Scandinavia, and North and South America.\n\nSince \"Minerva\" was purchased in 2009 by the Mougins Museum of Classical Art, its subject matter has expanded to include art and the arts influenced and inspired by the ancient world, including architecture, opera, music, film and literature.\n"}
{"id": "56269767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56269767", "title": "Museum of Moscow", "text": "Museum of Moscow\n\nThe Museum of Moscow () is one of the oldest museums of the city of Moscow, Russia. Its collection was established on the initiative of Russian scientific community in 1896. The Moscow City Duma gave it a large collection of exhibits. \nIn the 20th century the museum several times changed its name and location. \nIn 1921 the museum was called \"Moscow Municipal Museum\" and was located in Sukharev Tower. In 1940 was renamed the \"Museum of History and Reconstruction of Moscow\". In 1987 the museum got its present name. \n\nThe museum acquired more than one million articles depicting life in the city throughout its history, from Moscow's ancient beginnings to the present day. This collection contains the archaeological finds, ancient tools, jewelry, bronze and stone items from most ancient period of Moscow history. There is a collection of maps and drafts which show how the city grew from year to year. A great number of photos recreate the important occasions, celebrations, and events of Moscow since middle of the 19th century to the present day. \n\nThe museum holds original costumes, accessories, furniture and other everyday objects produced by talented Russian and European masters. \n\nThe Museum's exhibition was housed in one of the Krestovsky Towers.\n\n"}
{"id": "16350479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16350479", "title": "Punta Sur", "text": "Punta Sur\n\nPunta Sur marks the southern point of Cozumel and is part of the Parque Punta Sur, a ecological park that covers the reefs, beaches, lagoons, and low forest of the surrounding area. The reef system is also part of the Arrecifes de Cozumel National Park.\nThe Celarain lighthouse (\"Faro de Celarain\") sits on the Punta Sur promontory (\"Punta Celarain\") and is part of a nautical museum. Just northeast of it is the Caracol (\"Tumba del Caracol\"), a Maya building erected during the post-classic period. There is a persistent myth, often repeated by tour guides, that the building functioned as a weather alarm, producing a whistle that would precede the arrival of a hurricane, but that is only a legend. The idea that the building somehow functioned as a lighthouse or beacon used to send signals to the mainland is another legend, but also incorrect; it was a temple and nothing more. \n\nSome of the sandy beaches are protected to allow hatching for sea turtles. Observation towers have been erected at the Columbia lagoon to watch wildlife. Off Punta Sur is the Devil's Throat scuba diving area, while in the closer reef visitors can snorkel. The dirt road area is accessible to off-road vehicles and allows some tours to access the area as part of a guided excursion. At the end of the dirt road you will find 2 beach clubs, Papito's Beach Club Restaurant and Bar as well as the Punta Sur Beach Club. Included in the entrance fee to Punta Sur Park is also a guided boat ride on the Colombia Lagoon for bird watching, sightseeing, crocodile observation and more.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4464359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4464359", "title": "Purusha Sukta", "text": "Purusha Sukta\n\nPurusha sukta (IAST \"\", Devanāgarī पुरुषसूक्त) is hymn 10.90 of the Rigveda, dedicated to the Purusha, the \"Cosmic Being\".\n\nIt is also found in the Shukla Yajurveda Vajasena Samhita(adhyaya 31).\n\nOne version of the suktam has 16 verses, 15 in the meter, and the final one in the meter. Another version of the Sukta consists of 24 verses with the first 18 mantras designated as the \"Purva-narayana\" and the later portion termed as the \"Uttara-narayana\" probably in honour of Rishi Narayana. Some scholars state that certain verses of Purusha Sukta are later interpolations to the Rigveda. One of the reasons given is that it is the only hymn in all the Vedas that mentions the four varnas by name - although the word \"varṇa\" itself is not mentioned in the hymn.\n\nThe Purusha Sukta gives a description of the spiritual unity of the universe. It presents the nature of Purusha, or the cosmic being, as both immanent in the manifested world and yet transcendent to it. From this being, the Sukta holds, the original creative will (ldentified with Viswakarma, Hiranyagarbha or Prajapati) proceeds which causes the projection of the universe in space and time. The Purusha Sukta, in the seventh verse, hints at the organic connectedness of the various classes of society.\n\nThe Purusha is defined in verses 2 to 5 of the Sukta. He is described as a being who pervades everything conscious and unconscious universally. He is poetically depicted as a being with thousand heads, eyes and legs, enveloping not just the earth, but the entire universe from all sides and transcending it by ten fingers length - or transcending in all 10 directions. All manifestations, in past, present and future, is held to be the Purusha alone. It is also proclaimed that he transcends his creation. The immanence of the Purusha in manifestation and yet his transcendence of it is similar to the viewpoint held by panentheists. Finally, his glory is held to be even greater than the portrayal in this Sukta.\n\nVerses 5-15 hold the creation of the Rig Veda. Creation is described to have started with the origination of Virat, or the cosmic body from the Purusha. In Virat, omnipresent intelligence manifests itself which causes the appearance of diversity. In the verses following, it is held that Purusha through a sacrifice of himself, brings forth the avian, forest-dwelling and domestic animals, the three Vedas, the metres (of the mantras). Then follows a verse which states that from his mouth, arms, thighs, feet the four varnas (classes) are born. This four varna-related verse is controversial and is believed by many scholars, such as Max Müller, to be a corruption and a medieval or modern era insertion into the text.\n\nAfter the verse, the Sukta states that the moon takes birth from the Purusha's mind and the sun from his eyes. Indra and Agni descend from his mouth and from his vital breath, air is born. The firmament comes from his navel, the heavens from his head, the earth from his feet and quarters of space from his ears. Through this creation, underlying unity of human, cosmic and divine realities is espoused, for all are seen arising out of same original reality, the Purusha.\n\nThe Purusha Sukta holds that the world is created by and out of a Yajna or sacrifice of the Purusha. All forms of existence are held to be grounded in this primordial yajna. In the seventeenth verse, the concept of Yajna itself is held to have arisen out of this original sacrifice. In the final verses, yajna is extolled as the primordial energy ground for all existence.\n\nThe Sukta gives an expression to immanence of radical unity in diversity and is therefore, seen as the foundation of the Vaishnava thought, Bhedabheda school of philosophy and Bhagavata theology.\n\nThe concept of the Purusha is from the Samkhya Philosophy which is traced to the Indus Valley period. It seems to be an interpolation into the Rigveda since it is out of character with the other hymns dedicated to nature gods.\n\nThe Purusha Sukta is repeated with some variations in the Atharva Veda (19.6). Sections of it also occur in the Panchavimsha Brahmana, Vajasaneyi Samhita and the Taittiriya Aranyaka. Among Puranic texts, the Sukta has been elaborated in the Bhagavata Purana (2.5.35 to 2.6.1-29) and in the Mahabharata (Mokshadharma Parva 351 and 352).\n\nMany 19th and early 20th century scholars questioned as to when parts or all of Purusha Sukta were composed, and whether some of these verses were present in the ancient version of Rigveda. They suggest it was interpolated in post-Vedic era and is a relatively modern origin of Purusha Sukta. \n\nB. V. Kamesvara Aiyar, another 19th-century scholar, on the other hand, disputed this idea:\n\nScholarship on this and other Vedic topics has moved on decisively since the end of the twentieth century, especially since the major publications of Brereton & Jamison and many others, and views such as the above are nowadays of interest only as part of the history of indology, and not as contributions to contemporary scholarship.\n\nThe verses about social estates in the Purusha Sukta are considered to belong to the latest layer of the Rigveda by scholars such as V. Nagarajan, Jamison and Brereton. V. Nagarajan believes that it was an \"interpolation\" to give \"divine sanction\" to an unequal division in society that was in existence at the time of its composition. He states \"The Vedic Hymns had been composed before the Varna scheme was implemented. The Vedic society was not organized on the basis of varnas. The Purush Sukta might have been a later interpolation to secure Vedic sanction for that scheme\". Stephanie Jamison and Joel Brereton, a professor of Sanskrit and Religious studies, state, \"there is no evidence in the Rigveda for an elaborate, much-subdivided and overarching caste system\", and \"the varna system seems to be embryonic in the Rigveda and, both then and later, a social ideal rather than a social reality\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5014699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5014699", "title": "Raising the Flag at Ground Zero", "text": "Raising the Flag at Ground Zero\n\nRaising the Flag at Ground Zero is a photograph by Thomas E. Franklin of \"The Record\" (Bergen County, N.J.), taken on September 11, 2001. The picture shows three New York City firefighters raising the American flag at Ground Zero of the World Trade Center, following the September 11 attacks. The official names for the photograph used by \"The Record\" are Firefighters Raising Flag and Firemen Raising the Flag at Ground Zero. The photo appeared on \"The Record\" front page on September 12, 2001. The paper also put it on the Associated Press wire and it appeared on the covers of several newspapers around the world. It has often been compared to the \"Raising the Flag on Iwo Jima\" photograph taken by Joe Rosenthal during World War II.\n\nFranklin shot the photograph shortly after 5 p.m. with a telephoto lens. At this time, he was standing under a pedestrian walkway across the West Side Highway that connected the center to the World Financial Center, located at the northwest corner of the World Trade Center site. Franklin said the firefighters were about away from him and the debris was beyond that. They were about off the ground.\n\nFranklin had hitched a ride on a tug boat across the Hudson River, arriving around noon after the towers had collapsed. He was with photographer James Nachtwey when he saw the firefighters.\n\nThe firefighters pictured were Brooklyn-based firefighters George Johnson of Rockaway Beach, Dan McWilliams of Long Island (both from Ladder 157), and Billy Eisengrein of Staten Island (Rescue 2).\n\nThe flag came from the yacht \"Star of America\", owned by Shirley Dreifus and her late husband Spiros E. Kopelakis, which was docked in the yacht basin in the Hudson River at the World Financial Center. McWilliams cut the yardarm off of the yacht with a K-Saw and then took the flag and its pole from the yacht to an evacuation area on the northwest side of the site. They found a pole about off the ground.\n\nSoon after its raising above Ground Zero, the flag disappeared. The city thought it had possession of the flag after the attack, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and George Pataki signed it, and it flew at the New York City Hall, Yankee Stadium, and on the during its service in the Mideast. When the flag's owner prepared to formally donate the flag, it was discovered that it was \"not\" the flag from Ground Zero. There was a size discrepancy, the yacht's flag measured , the flag the city had measured . Dreifus started a website in an effort to get the flag back. A 2013 CNN documentary film, \"The Flag\", directed by filmmakers Michael Tucker and Petra Epperlein investigated the mystery of this missing 9/11 icon and discovered video evidence that the flag went missing hours after it was first raised. The original flag has now been recovered. The recovery came as a result of a lead gathered following the airing of the History Channel's \"Brad Meltzer's Lost History\" in 2014. A number of scientists have now verified that the flag is authentic, and it was unveiled on Sunday, September 11, 2016, the 15th anniversary of 9/11, on a History Channel special on the flag, \"America's 9/11 Flag: Rise From the Ashes\".\n\nMichael Kessel, a Manhattan attorney, suggested to U.S. Representative Gary Ackerman that the photo be used for a stamp, and the \"Heroes 2001\" stamp, USA Scott #B2, was unveiled on March 11, 2002, by President George W. Bush, in a ceremony attended by Franklin, Johnson, Eisengrein, and McWilliams. These stamps were semipostals: they had a purchase price (45¢) higher than their postage value (34¢), with the balance given to the Federal Emergency Management Agency's relief efforts. A special exception was thus made to the normal requirement by the United States Postal Service that subjects of stamps be deceased. \n\nIn December 2001, the New York City Fire Department unveiled plans for a statue based on the photograph to be placed at the Brooklyn headquarters. In an effort to be inclusive of all those who had been affected by the tragedy, the statue was to include black, white, and Hispanic firefighters. The change in ethnicity from the actual firefighters, all of whom are white, proved controversial enough that the statue was never built.\n\nOn November 5, 2007, a bronze monument based on the photograph called \"To Lift A Nation\" and depicting three New York firefighters raising the flag over the ruins of the World Trade Center was dedicated at the National Fallen Firefighters Memorial Park in Emmitsburg, Maryland.\n\nThe picture taken by Thomas E. Franklin is not to be confused with another picture of the same event but from a different angle by Ricky Flores for \"The Journal News\". Flores also was able to get near Ground Zero on the day of the attacks and at around the same time that Franklin took his shot, Flores was able to get into a second story of a nearby building and capture the same picture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22754623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22754623", "title": "Robert Kerr Hannay", "text": "Robert Kerr Hannay\n\n\"Robert Hannay redirects here. For Sir Robert Hannay, 1st Baronet and Sir Robert Hannay, 2nd Baronet, see Hannay baronets\"\n\nProf Robert Kerr Hannay FRSE RSA (31 December 1867, Glasgow – 19 March 1940, Edinburgh) was a Scottish historian. He served as Historiographer Royal for Scotland and Chair of Scottish History and Palaeography at the University of Edinburgh.\n\nHe collected and calendared the letters of both James 1V and James V, and wrote \"The Early History of the Scottish Signet\".\n\nHe was born in Glasgow on New Year's Eve 1867. He was the eldest of seven children of Thomas Hannay (1841–1916), and his wife Elizabeth McDowall of Alloa. His father owned the estate of Rusco, but in 1878 had sold it to settle debts, theafter becoming an agent for the iron-masters William Whitwell & Co. The family thereafter lived at 16 Woodside Terrace in Glasgow. Robert was educated at the Albany Academy in Glasgow. He then went first to Glasgow University then Oxford University graduating MA from the latter in 1891.\n\nHe began lecturing in Ancient History at Dundee University in 1894. In 1901 he transferred to St Andrews University. From 1911 to 1919 he left academia to act as Curator of Register House in Edinburgh. From 1919 to 1930 he was Professor of Scottish History and Palaeography in Edinburgh University. From 1930 he was Historiographer Royal for Scotland.\n\nIn 1922 he was elected a Fellow of the royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Cargill Gilston Knott, James Hartley Ashworth, James Alfred Ewing, and Sir Edmund Taylor Whittaker. St Andrews University granted him an honorary doctorate (LLD) in 1923.\n\nHe was living at 5 Royal Terrace, Edinburgh in 1936 and died in Edinburgh on 19 March 1940.\n\nIn 1899 he married Jane Ewing Wilson CBE (died 1938), daughter of Rev John Stewart Wilson DD of New Abbet. They had one son, Robert Stewart Erskine Hannay (born 1900).\n\nHe is the grandfather of writer Robert Alastair Hannay.\n\n"}
{"id": "20563689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20563689", "title": "Slovene months", "text": "Slovene months\n\nSlovene months have standard modern names derived from Latin names, as in most European languages. There are also archaic Slovene month names, which exist in both a standardized set as well as many variations. \n\nThe standard modern Slovene month names are \"januar\", \"februar\", \"marec\", \"april\", \"maj\", \"junij\", \"julij\", \"avgust\", \"september\", \"oktober\", \"november\", and \"december\". When writing dates, they appear after the day and are often represented by Arabic numerals, and sometimes with Roman numerals (e.g., \"19. 5.\" or \"19. V.\" 'May 19th'). Older variants include \"januvarij\" 'January', \"februvarij\" 'February', and \"marcij\" 'March'.\n\nMany of the names in the standardized set of archaic Slovene month names first occur in the Škofja Loka manuscript, written in 1466 by Martin of Loka.\n\nMultiple systems have been used in various Slovene-speaking regions, some of which were based on the names of saints (e.g., \"jurjevščak\" 'April', literally 'St. George's'), numbers (e.g., \"prvnik\" 'January', literally 'first'), or other features (e.g., \"vetrnik\" 'March', literally 'windy'). In the Prekmurje dialect of Slovene, the following system was attested: \"sečen\" 'January', \"süšec\" 'February', \"mali traven\" 'March', \"velki traven\" 'April', \"risalšček\" 'May', \"ivanšček\" 'June', \"jakopešček\" 'July', \"mešnjek\" 'August', \"mihalšček\" 'September', \"vsesvišček\" 'October', \"andrejšček\" 'November', \"božič\" 'December'.\n\nAdditional names include \"brumen\" (< Italian \"bruma\" 'depth of winter'), \"sečen\" (related to \"suh\" 'dry' or from \"sek-\" 'cut'), \"ledenec\" and \"lednik\" (< \"led\" 'ice'), \"mali božičnjak\" and \"malobožičnjak\" (< \"mali božič\" 'Epiphany'), \"prozimec\" (probably contamination of \"prosinec\" with \"zima\" 'winter'), \"prvnik\" (< \"prvi\" 'first'), and \"zimec\" (< \"zima\" 'winter'). The name \"prosinec\", associated with millet bread and the act of asking for something, was first written in the Škofja Loka manuscript.\nAdditional names include \"sečan\" and \"sečen\" (both related to \"suh\" 'dry' or from \"sek-\" 'cut'), and \"sečni mesec\" (< \"sek-\" 'cut'). The name \"svečan\" may relate to icicles or Candlemas. This name originates from \"sičan\", written as \"svičan\" in the \"New Carniolan Almanac\" from 1775 and changed to its final form by Franc Metelko in his \"New Almanac\" from 1824. The name was also spelled \"sečan\", meaning \"the month of cutting down of trees\". In 1848, a proposal was put forward in \"Kmetijske in rokodelske novice\" by the Slovene Society of Ljubljana to call this month \"talnik\" (related to ice melting), but it has not stuck. The idea was proposed by the priest and patriot Blaž Potočnik. A name of February in Slovene was also \"vesnar\", after the mythological character Vesna.\nAdditional names include \"brezen\" and \"breznik\" (both from \"breza\" 'birch'), \"ebehtnik\" (< Middle High German \"ebennaht\" 'equinox'), \"gregorščak\" (< \"Gregor\" '(Saint) Gregory'), \"marcij\", \"postnik\" (< \"post\" 'Lent'), \"traven\" (< \"trava\" 'grass'), and \"tretnik\" (< \"tretji\" 'third'). The name \"sušec\" was first written in the Škofja Loka manuscript.\nAdditional names include \"brezen\" (< \"breza\" 'birch') and \"jurijevščak\" (< \"Jurij\" '(Saint) George'). The name \"mali traven\" was first written in the Škofja Loka manuscript.\nAdditional names include \"cvetičnik\" and \"cvetnar\" (both < \"cvet\" 'flower'), \"majnik\", \"mlečen\" (< \"mleč\" 'chicory'), \"risalščak\" and \"rusalščak\" (< \"risale/rusale\" 'Pentecost'), \"rožni mesec\" (< \"roža\" 'flower'), and \"sviben\" (< \"sviba\" '(flowering of) dogwood'). The name \"veliki traven\" was first written in the Škofja Loka manuscript.\nAdditional names include \"bobov cvet\" (literally, 'broad bean blossom') \"ivanjščak\" and \"šentjanževec\" (both referring to Saint John's Day), \"klasen\" (< \"klas\" 'head of grain'), \"kresnik\" (< \"kres\" 'bonfire', referring to Midsummer), \"prašnik\" (literally, 'stamen'), \"rožencvet\" and \"rožni cvet\" (both 'flower blossom'), and \"rženi cvet\" ('rye blossom').\nAdditional names include \"jakobnik\" and \"jakobščak\" (both referring to Saint James's Day), \"pšeničnik\" (< \"pšenica\" 'wheat'), and \"žetnik\" (< \"žetev\" 'reaping').\nAdditional names include \"kolovožnjak\", \"medmašnik\", \"mešnjak\", \"otavnik\", \"porcijunkula\", \"velikomašnjak\", and \"vršenj\".\nAdditional names include \"jesenik\", \"jesenščak\", \"kozoprsk\", \"miholščak\", \"poberuh\", and \"šmihelščnik\".\nAdditional names include \"kozoprsk\", \"listopad\", \"lukovščak\", \"moštnik\", \"obročnik\", \"repar\", \"repnik\", \"vinec\", and \"vinščak\".\nAdditional names include \"andrejščak\", \"gnilolist\", \"listognoj\", \"martinščak\", \"vsesvečnjak\", and \"vsesvečak\".\nAdditional names include \"kolednjak\" and \"veliki božičnjak\" (< \"božič\" 'Christmas').\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7246021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7246021", "title": "Star-Spangled Banner (flag)", "text": "Star-Spangled Banner (flag)\n\nThe Star-Spangled Banner, or the Great Garrison Flag, was the garrison flag that flew over Fort McHenry in Baltimore Harbor during the naval portion of the Battle of Baltimore during the War of 1812. Seeing the flag during the battle inspired Francis Scott Key to write the poem \"Defence of Fort M'Henry\", which, retitled with the flag's name from the closing lines of the first stanza and set to the tune of \"To Anacreon in Heaven\" by John Stafford Smith, later became the national anthem of the United States.\n\nIn Baltimore's preparation for an expected attack on the city, Fort McHenry was made ready to defend the city's harbor. When Major George Armistead expressed the desire for a very large flag to fly over the fort, General John S. Stricker and Commodore Joshua Barney placed an order with a prominent Baltimorean flagmaker for two oversized American Flags. The larger of the two flags would be the Great Garrison Flag, the largest battle flag ever flown at the time. The smaller of the two flags would be the Storm Flag, to be more durable and less prone to fouling in inclement weather.\n\nAvailable documentation shows that this flag was sewn by local flagmaker Mary Young Pickersgill under a government commission in 1813 at a cost of $405.90 (). George Armistead, the commander of Fort McHenry, specified \"a flag so large that the British would have no difficulty seeing it from a distance\".\n\nMary Pickersgill stitched the flag from a combination of cotton and dyed English wool bunting, assisted by her daughter, two nieces, and an African American indentured servant. (Her elderly mother may also have helped.) The flag has fifteen horizontal red and white stripes, as well as fifteen white stars in the blue field. The two additional stars and stripes, approved by the United States Congress's Flag Act of 1794, represent Vermont and Kentucky's entrance into the Union. The stars are arranged in vertical rows, with five horizontal rows of stars, offset, each containing three stars. At the time, the practice of adding stripes (in addition to stars) with the induction of a new state had not yet been discontinued.\n\nThe flag originally measured . Each of the fifteen stripes is wide, and each of the stars measures about in diameter. After the battle, the Armistead family occasionally gave away pieces of the flag as souvenirs and gifts; this cutting, along with deterioration from continued use, removed several feet of fabric from the flag's fly end, and it now measures . The flag currently has only fourteen stars—the fifteenth star was similarly given as a gift, but its recipient and current whereabouts are unknown.\n\nThe Flag was flown over the fort when 5,000 British soldiers and a fleet of 19 ships attacked Baltimore on September 12, 1814. The bombardment turned to Fort McHenry on the evening of September 13, and continuous shelling occurred for 25 hours under heavy rain. When the British ships were unable to pass the fort and penetrate the harbor, the attack was ended, and on the morning of September 14, when the battered flag still flew above the ramparts, it was clear that Fort McHenry remained in American hands. This revelation was famously captured in poetry by Key, an American lawyer, and amateur poet. Being held by the British on a truce ship in the Patapsco River, Key observed the battle from afar. When he saw the Garrison Flag still flying at the dawn of the morning of the 14th, he composed a poem he originally titled \"Defence of Fort M'Henry\". The poem would be put to the music of a common tune, retitled \"The Star-Spangled Banner\", and a portion of it would later be adopted as the United States National Anthem. Since its arrival at the Smithsonian, the flag has undergone multiple preservation efforts.\n\nA 2-inch by 5-inch fragment of the flag - white and red, with a seam down the middle - was sold at auction in Dallas, TX on November 30, 2011, for $38,837: the snippet was, presumably, cut from the famous flag as a souvenir in the mid-19th century. The framed remnant came with a faded, hand-written note attesting it was \"\"A piece of the Flag which floated over Fort McHenry at the time of the bombardment when Key's (\"sic\") composed the Song of the Star Spangled Banner, presented by Sam Beth Cohen.\"\"\n\nThe flag that flew during that episode in history became a significant artifact. It remained in the possession of Major Armistead, who was promoted to brevet lieutenant colonel, and his family for many years. Eben Appleton, Colonel Armistead's grandson, inherited the flag in 1878. In 1907, he lent it to the Smithsonian Institution, and in 1912 it was made a formal gift. Today it is permanently housed in the National Museum of American History, one of the Smithsonian Institution museums on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. The flag was given to the museum in 1912, and has undergone multiple restoration efforts after being originally restored by Amelia Fowler in 1914. \n\nDue to environmental and light damage, a four-phase restoration project began in May 1999. In the first phase, the team removed the linen support backing that was attached to the flag during the 1914 restoration. The second phase consisted of the most comprehensive, detailed examination of the condition and construction of the Star-Spangled Banner to date, which provided critical information for later work. This included scientific studies with infrared spectrometry, electron microscopy, mechanical testing, and determination of amino acid content by a New Zealand scientist, and infrared imaging by a NASA scientist. Planning and executing a cleaning treatment for the flag following scientific analysis was the third phase. In the fourth and final phase of the project, curators, scientists, and conservators developed a long-term preservation plan. The restoration was completed in 2008 at a total cost in excess of $21 million. \n\nFollowing the reopening of the National Museum of American History on November 21, 2008, the flag is now on display in a two-story display chamber that allows it to lie at a 10-degree angle in dim light. The Smithsonian has created a permanent exhibition to document the flag's history and significance, called \"The Star-Spangled Banner: The Flag that Inspired the National Anthem\". Visitors are allowed a clear view of the flag, while it remains protected in a controlled environment.\n\nThe National Museum of American History produced an online exhibition in conjunction with the reopening of Flag Hall in 2008. An interactive component allows site visitors to closely explore features of the flag in detail, download an audio-descriptive tour of the exhibition for the visually-impaired, and hear the song performed on original instruments from the National Museum of American History's collection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33653294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33653294", "title": "The Gods of Atlantis (novel)", "text": "The Gods of Atlantis (novel)\n\nThe Gods of Atlantis (titled Atlantis God in the US) is an archaeological adventure novel by \"New York Times\" and London \"Sunday Times\" bestselling author David Gibbins. First published in 2011, it is the sixth book in Gibbins' Jack Howard series.\n\nThe book was published in the UK in hardback on 18 August 2011 and in paperback and as an ebook on 27 October 2011; the US edition (Atlantis God) was published in 2012, along with French, Greek and other translations.\n\nA lost Nazi bunker in a forest in Germany contains a dreadful secret. Marine archaeologist Jack Howard returns to the lost island of Atlantis in the Black Sea to answer questions about the Atlantis priests that have plagued him. Then by tracking down the 1930s expeditions of Himmler's Ahnenerbe - the Nazi's Department of Cultural Heritage - and its link with Atlantis, Jack realises he is not just on the trail of the greatest lost relics from the past.\n\nDavid Gibbins\n\n"}
{"id": "7011092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7011092", "title": "Theodorus Janssonius van Almeloveen", "text": "Theodorus Janssonius van Almeloveen\n\nTheodorus Janssonius van Almeloveen (24 July 1657 – 28 July 1712) (Theodoor Jansson) was a Dutch physician, and the learned editor of various classical and medical works. He was born at Mijdrecht, near Utrecht, where his father was minister of the reformed church. His mother, Mary Jansson, was related to the celebrated printer of Amsterdam, Jan Jansson.\n\nAfter studying at Utrecht University under various eminent men, such as Johann Georg Graevius for belles lettres, de Vries for philosophy, Johann Leusden for theology, Johannes Munniks and Jacob Vallan (1637–1720), for medicine, etc., he determined to give up his father's profession, for which he had been intended, and devote himself to medicine. He became doctor of medicine at Utrecht in 1681.\n\nIn 1687, he settled at Gouda, where he married. He founded a learned society there in 1692. In 1697, he was invited to Harderwijk, to become professor of Greek and history; and in 1702, he was appointed professor of medicine, retaining both offices until his death.\n\nHe was an untiring author and editor, and acquired the highest reputation as a teacher, and for his scholarship, science, and particularly for his great bibliographical knowledge. For this specialty, it has been suggested, he may have been indebted to the opportunities of observation afforded him by his uncle Jan Jansson, the printer, whose name he bore.\n\nHe had a great knowledge of books. Besides editions with notes of Strabo, Juvenal, Quintilian, the Aphorisms of Hippocrates, Celsus, \"Apicius\", Aurelian on Diseases, and Decker's \"Treatise on Supposititious Writings\", he has left a work in Dutch on the anatomy of the muscles, several bibliographical treatises in Latin, among which are a work—\"De Vitis Stephanorum\", a list of Plagiaries, and a list of books promised that never appeared.\n\nIn his \"Inventa nov-antiqua\" (1684), he discusses in detail, with a strong bias towards antiquity, the question of how far the discoveries in contemporary medicine were anticipated by ancient physicians. In this particular field, therefore, he sustains the \"ancients versus moderns\" thesis taken up by others, and which, in its greatest amplitude, led to the serious debates of Sir William Temple and William Wotton, and to Jonathan Swift's satirical \"The Battle of the Books\".\n\nIn his \"Plagiariorum Syllabus\" (1694), he lists authors—including biblical, classical, and contemporary writers—who have plagiarized expressions from previous writers. His list includes Andrea Alciato, Bodin, Calvin, Casaubon, Heinsius, Junius, Justus Lipsius, Petrus Ramus, Claudius Salmasius, Scaliger, and Henry Estienne, among others.\n\n\nSaskia Stegeman, “How to set up a scholarly correspondence. Theodorus Janssonius van Almeloven (1657-1712) aspires to membership of the Republic of Letters”, \"LIAS\", XX, 1993, p. 227-243\nSaskia Stegeman, \"Patronage and services in the Republic of Letters : the network of Theodorus Janssonius van Almeloveen (1657-1712)\", Amsterdam, APA-Holland University Press, 2005, XVI-612 p.\n"}
{"id": "31299317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31299317", "title": "Timeline of Treblinka extermination camp", "text": "Timeline of Treblinka extermination camp\n\nThis article presents the timeline of events at Treblinka extermination camp during the most deadly phase of the Holocaust in World War II. All deportations were from German occupied Poland, except where noted. In most cases the number of deportees are not exact figures, but rather approximations.\nDays are listed in chronological order, nevertheless, a number of dates are missing from the below tables which means only that no way bills survived for those particular dates. It does not mean that transports were not arriving or have not been processed from layover yards, when applicable. \n\n"}
{"id": "28976141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28976141", "title": "Tishri-years", "text": "Tishri-years\n\nTishri-years is an ancient calendar system used in Israel/Judea, and the Jewish people in Diaspora. It is based on, and is a variation of, the Nisan-years. \n\nTishri-years is often called the Jewish Civil Calendar, in contrast to Nisan-years, which is often called the Jewish Religious Calendar.\n\nTishri-years is similar to, and sometimes equivalent to, the Macedonian years practices by the Hellenistic empires (332-30 BC). They are all lunisolar years beginning from Autumn, but could differ by a month.\n\nWhile the Nisan-years begin the year from the Spring season, around the Vernal Equinox/Spring Equinox (Gregorian March 20/21), the Tishri-years begin the years from the Autumn season, around the Autumn Equinox (Gregorian September 22/23). The New Years Day of the Tishri-years is called \"Rosh Hashanah\" (\"Head of the Year\"); it begins the Fall Feasts of Israel. \n\nTishri 1, however, is not determined directly by its relationship to the Autumn Equinox. It depends on the determination of Nisan 1, which is the day after the New Moon closest to the Spring Equinox (within fifteen days before or after). Tishri 1 is the first day of the seventh month. Although the month number is always counted from Nisan, in the Tishri-years, the year begins and ends with Tishri 1.\n\nThe intercalary month is still the second Adar, initially determined by agricultural observations in Israel. Although meteorological conditions may cause a few days of delay for each Rosh Codesh (\"Head of the Month\"), over all the errors will cancel each other, and the calendar system remained accurate.\n\nAfter the fourth century AD, Hillel II fixed the Jewish Talmudic Calendar by a mathematical algorithm, in order for Jews all around the world to observe the feasts according to the same calendar. This caused the Jewish calendar to gradually depart from the actual seasons, due to the accumulated errors.\n\nThe origin of the Tishri-years tradition can be traced to King David, who was ordained the king of Judah (the two southern tribes) on Tishri 1, 1010 BC, before he was ordained the king of Israel (the ten northern tribes) on Nisan 1, 1002 BC. It seemed that David still used the Nisan-years in chronicling his years, but King Solomon made it a national calendar commemorating his great father. And after the split of the kingdom in 931/930 BC, the northern kingdom Israel continued using Nisan-years, while the southern kingdom Judah used the Tishri-years. \n\nThe Jewish people kept on using the Tishri-years system throughout the first (Babylonian) and the second (Roman) Diaspora, till today. They also traced the system back till the time of creation.\n"}
{"id": "46956824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46956824", "title": "Vincent Megaw", "text": "Vincent Megaw\n\nJohn Vincent Stanley Megaw (born 1934) is a British-born Australian archaeologist with research interests focusing on the archaeology and anthropology of art and musical instruments, Australasian prehistory and protohistory. He is a specialist in early Celtic art and contemporary Australian Indigenous art.\n\nMegaw was educated at University College School, Hampstead and the University of Edinburgh, and worked on a number key sites in Europe as well as carrying out pioneering work in the South Sydney region of Australia. He undertook extensive research with his wife, Ruth Megaw, on the art of the European pre-Roman Iron Age; they wrote several publications together. In 1961, after working as an editor at Thames and Hudson, he accepted a position at the University of Sydney as Lecturer and subsequently Senior Lecturer in European Iron Age Archaeology. From 1971 to 1982 he held the Chair of Archaeology and Head of Department at Leicester University. His other appointments have included Visiting Professorship at the University of Edinburgh and Senior Honorary Research Fellow in the Department of Archaeology at the University of Glasgow (from 1998 with his wife). Ruth Megaw died in 2013.\n\nHe was elected to the Australian Academy of the Humanities in 1985 and in 2004 was made a Member of the Order of Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "41275007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41275007", "title": "Víctor Manuel Albornoz", "text": "Víctor Manuel Albornoz\n\nVíctor Manuel Albornoz Cabanilla (Lima, March 23, 1896 – Cuenca, October 26, 1975) was an Ecuadorian writer, poet, biographer, and historian.\n\nAlbornoz was born in Lima, Peru on March 23, 1896. His father was from Ambato, Ecuador, and his mother was from Lima, Peru. At a young age he moved permanently to Cuenca, Ecuador, where he completed all of his primary and secondary education.\n\nHe helped initiate journalism in Cuenca and founded the newspaper \"La Crónica\".\n\nOn August 16, 1966 he was recognized as an Ecuadorian citizen according to Act No. 122 from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because his father was Ecuadorian.\n\nIn 1947 he was one of the founding members of the House of Ecuadorian Culture. He was also a member of the Ecuadorian Academy of Language.\n\nHe died on October 26, 1975 of a brain hemorrhage.\n\nHe was married to Leticia Peralta Rosales, with whom he had 4 children.\n\nPoetry\n\nBiography\n\nHistory\n"}
{"id": "6093810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6093810", "title": "Wendy Davies", "text": "Wendy Davies\n\nWendy Elizabeth Davies, OBE, FBA, FSA, FRHistS, FLSW is an Emeritus Professor of History at University College, London, England.\n\nDavies studied for her BA degree (1964) and PhD degree (1970) in history at UCL. Following positions in Munich and Birmingham University, she returned to UCL as a Lecturer in Medieval History. She was made a Professor in 1985 and thereafter became Head of the Department of History, then Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Dean of the Faculty of Social & Historical Sciences and, from 1995, UCL Pro-Provost (European Affairs). She was made a Fellow of UCL in 1997. UCL marked her retirement at a reception on 30 October 2007. She was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2008 Birthday Honours. She is also a Founding Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales. Although her teaching originally covered a wide area of European and English medieval history it more recently concentrated on Celtic subjects working across and within the disciplines of history, archaeology and Celtic studies.\n\nShe is particularly well known for her studies of early Welsh and Breton history. She is co-director, with Prof. James Graham-Campbell, of the interdisciplinary 'Celtic Inscribed Stones Project', established to build a database of all known early medieval Celtic inscribed stones. For the last twenty years she has also convened a major research group, known as the 'Bucknell Group', with the aim of examining the social significance of early medieval European charters. She is notable for her analysis of the Llandaff Charters.\n\nShe has a special interest in the economic and social structure of Western European pre-industrial rural communities and the ways in which they used land and for fifteen years ran, with Dr Grenville Astill, the \"East Brittany Survey\", a multidisciplinary research programme into settlement and land-use changes. Much of her work has involved collaboration with others and she believes in the importance of fieldwork in teaching and research. Her responsibility for co-ordinating and developing the college's European strategy required her to represent the Provost and President both abroad and at home and to advise him on major European Higher Education trends, maintain the college's membership of European networks and work with to promote the good reputation of UCL. She is particularly concerned that academic qualifications be speedily recognised within Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "518931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=518931", "title": "William Dodd (ambassador)", "text": "William Dodd (ambassador)\n\nWilliam Edward Dodd (October 21, 1869 – February 9, 1940) was an American historian, author and diplomat. A liberal Democrat, he served as the United States Ambassador to Germany from 1933 to 1937 during the Nazi era. Initially a holder of the slightly Antisemitic notions of his times, he went to Germany with instructions from President Franklin D. Roosevelt to do what he could to protest Nazi treatment of Jews in Germany \"unofficially,\" while also attempting to follow official State Department instructions to maintain cordial official diplomatic relations. Convinced from first hand observation that the Nazis were an increasing threat, he resigned over his inability to mobilize the Roosevelt administration, particularly the State Department, to counter the Nazis prior to the start of World War II.\n\nDodd was born on October 21, 1869 on a farm near Clayton, North Carolina. He was of English or Scottish descent, his paternal ancestors having lived in America since the 1740s when the first of the family to arrive in the New World, Daniel Dodd, settled among the Highland Scots in the Cape Fear Valley. Dodd earned his bachelor's degree from the Virginia Polytechnic Institute (Virginia Tech) in 1895 and a master's degree in 1897. He earned his Ph.D. at the University of Leipzig in 1900. He and his wife Martha married on December 25, 1901. They had two children, a daughter, Martha, and a son, William E. Dodd Jr.\n\nDodd learned a class-conscious view of Southern history from his family, which taught him that slaveholders were responsible for the Civil War. His semi-literate and impoverished father supported his family only through the generosity of wealthier relatives, whom Dodd came to view as \"hard men, those traders and aristocratic masters of their dependents\". Dodd taught history at Randolph–Macon College from 1900 to 1908. His instruction there was at times controversial, because it included attacks on Southern aristocratic values. In 1902, he wrote an article in \"The Nation\" in which he complained of pressure to flatter Southern elites and their view that slavery played no role in the onset of the Civil War. He criticized the Grand Camp of Confederate Veterans by name. Confederate societies called for his dismissal. Dodd explained that \"To suggest that the revolt from the union in 1860 was not justified, was not led by the most lofty minded statesmen, is to invite not only criticism but an enforced resignation.\" University administrators supported him and he attacked his accusers and detailed their distortions of Southern history. When recruited by the University of Chicago, he began his 25-year career as Professor of American History there in 1908.\n\nDodd was the first, and for many years the only, college or university professor fully devoted to the history of the American South. He produced many scholarly works, both articles and books, and won excellent reviews as a teacher. Though much of his scholarship was superseded in later years, he helped to model a new approach to regional history: sympathetic, judicious, and less partisan than the work of earlier generations. In a letter to President Theodore Roosevelt, he described his approach: \"The purpose of my studying and writing history is to strike a balance somewhat between the North and the South, but not to offer any defense of any thing.\"\n\nDodd wrote a biography of Thomas Jefferson in German. Dodd was a Democrat, active in Chicago politics. In 1912 he wrote speeches for presidential candidate Woodrow Wilson. He became a friend of President Wilson, visited him in the White House frequently, and authored a biography of him, \"Woodrow Wilson and his Work\", that appeared in 1920. He was an early opponent of the theory that German imperialism was solely responsible for World War I. He gave speeches on behalf of Wilson and U.S. participation in the League of Nations, and in 1920 he reviewed the League-related parts of the speech Ohio Governor James M. Cox gave when accepting the Democratic nomination for the presidency. In the 1920s, following Wilson's death, Dodd lectured on his administration and its accomplishments, revised the biography he had written, and co-edited the six-volumes of \"The Public Papers of Woodrow Wilson\". He wrote in defense of Wilson for both scholarly journals and the popular press. Through these efforts, he developed connections to a number of figures in the Democratic Party establishment, including Josephus Daniels, Daniel C. Roper, and Edward M. House.\n\nDodd held several positions as an officer of the American Historical Association and was named the organization's president for 1934.\n\nDodd long planned to write a multi-volume history of the American South. As he reached his sixties, he found the prospect of completing it increasingly unlikely given his academic responsibilities.\n\nThe Roosevelt administration had difficulty filling the post of U.S. Ambassador to Germany. The volatile political situation in Germany presented diplomatic challenges, but most observers expected German politics would stabilize before too long. The ambassadorship, normally a patronage position rather than one filled by a State Department professional, was offered to others, including James M. Cox and Newton D. Baker, both of whom declined citing personal reasons. With the administration under pressure to act before the adjournment of Congress, Secretary of Commerce Daniel C. Roper, a longtime friend of Dodd and his family, suggested his name after Dodd himself had made it clear he was seeking a diplomatic post that would allow him sufficient free time to complete his multi-volume history.\n\nPresident Roosevelt offered Dodd the position on June 8, 1933, and sent the Senate his nomination to be U.S. Ambassador to Germany on June 10, 1933. He was confirmed the same day. Before his departure, Dodd's old friend Carl Sandburg told him he needed \"to find out what this man Hitler is made of, what makes his brain go round, what his blood and bones are made of\" and still \"be brave and truthful, keep your poetry and integrity.\" He left for Germany on July 5, 1933, accompanied by his wife and two adult children. His departure statements said:\n\nBefore his departure for Berlin, State Department officials set as his priority the need to ensure that the German government did not default on its debts to American lenders. Dodd met with a group of bankers in New York City who recognized that economic conditions in Germany made full payment unlikely. They hoped he could argue against a German default and suggested they would agree to lower the interest on their loans from 7% to 4% to prevent it. National City Bank and Chase National Bank held over 100 million dollars in German bonds, which Germany later proposed to pay back at the rate of thirty-cents on the dollar. Dodd was not sympathetic to the bankers or the high interest rates they charged. He repeatedly registered protests with the German government when payments were suspended or debts to United States lenders were treated differently from debts owed to those in other countries. Yet he remained fundamentally in sympathy with Germany's request that interest rates be lowered. As Secretary of State Hull insisted that Dodd renew his requests for payment, Dodd expressed frustration in his diary: \"What more can I say than I have said a score of times? Germany is in a terrible plight and for once she recognizes war is no remedy.\"\n\nBefore leaving to take up his post, Dodd consulted on the situation in Germany, and especially Nazi persecution of the Jews, with his own contacts and during interviews the State Department arranged for him. The opinions he heard covered a broad range. Charles Richard Crane, a plumbing industry tycoon and philanthropist, expressed great admiration for Hitler. As for the Jews, Crane said: \"Let Hitler have his way.\" Some of the State Department's most senior officials harbored an outright dislike of Jews, including William Phillips, Undersecretary of State, the second-highest-ranking man in the department. Dodd met with members of the Jewish-American community, including Stephen S. Wise and Felix Warburg, who asked him to seek a reversal of the Nazis' repressive anti-Jewish policies. Dodd promised he would \"exert all possible personal influence against unjust treatment\" of German Jews, but not in his official capacity.\n\nPresident Roosevelt advised him on June 16, 1933:\nEdward M. House, a veteran in Democratic Party circles since the Wilson administration, told Dodd that he should do what he could \"to ameliorate Jewish sufferings,\" but cautioned, \"the Jews should not be allowed to dominate economic or intellectual life in Berlin as they have done for a long time.\" Dodd shared House's views and wrote in his diary that \"The Jews had held a great many more of the key positions in Germany than their numbers or talents entitled them to.\" Based on this view of the proper role of Jews in society, he advised Hitler in March 1934 that Jewish influence should be restrained in Germany as it was in the United States. \"I explained to him [Hitler]\" wrote Dodd, \"that where a question of over-activity of Jews in university or official life made trouble, we had managed to redistribute the offices in such a way as to not give great offense.\" Hitler ignored Dodd's advice and responded that \"if they [the Jews] continue their activity we shall make a complete end of them in this country.\"\n\nDodd tried without success to save the life of Helmut Hirsch, a German-American Jew who planned to bomb parts of the Nazi party rally grounds at Nuremberg.\n\nThe German government's treatment of United States citizens created a series of crises during Dodd's tenure as ambassador. Edgar Ansel Mowrer, a reporter for the \"Chicago Daily News\" and president of the Foreign Press Association in Berlin, published a book-length attack on the Nazis, \"Germany Puts the Clock Back\", and continued his critical coverage until the government demanded his resignation as head of the Association. The U.S. State Department ignored the government's demand that it arrange for his return to the U.S. When Mowrer's employers arranged for him to leave and he sought to stay to cover the September 1933 Nuremberg rally, Dodd refused to support him, believing his reporting was so provocative that it made it difficult for other American journalists to work.\n\nOn October 5, 1933 Dodd gave a speech in Berlin at the American Club describing the New Deal's effect on the U.S. Constitutional system: \"It was not revolution as men are prone to say. It was a popular expansion of governmental powers beyond all constitutional grants, and nearly all men everywhere hope the President may succeed.\"\n\nOn October 12, 1933 Dodd gave a speech to the American Chamber of Commerce in Berlin, with Joseph Goebbels and Alfred Rosenberg in attendance, and used an elaborate analogy based on Roman history to criticize the Nazis as \"half-educated statesmen\" who adopted the \"arbitrary modes\" of an ancient tyrant. His views grew more critical and pessimistic with the Night of the Long Knives in June–July 1934, when the Nazis killed prominent political opponents including many dissenters within the Nazi movement. Dodd was one of the very few in the U.S. and European diplomatic community who reported that the Nazis were too strongly entrenched for any opposition to emerge. In May 1935 he reported to his State Department superiors that Hitler intended \"to annex part of the Corridor, part of Czechoslovakia, and all of Austria.\" A few months later he predicted a German-Italian alliance. Feeling ineffectual, Dodd offered to resign, but Roosevelt allowed him only a recuperative visit to the U.S. The President wrote to U.S Ambassador to Italy Breckinridge Long in September 1935 that he and Dodd had been \"far more accurate in your pessimism for the past two years than any of my other friends in Europe.\" In a note to Assistant Secretary of State R. Walton Moore that same month, he wrote of Dodd: \"we most certainly do not want him to consider resigning. I need him in Berlin.\" Dodd reported to Secretary of State Hull in September 1936 that Hitler's domestic economic policies, rearmament, and Rhineland initiatives had consolidated his support to the point that he could count on the support of the German people for a declaration of war \"in any measure he might undertake.\"\n\nFollowing a U.S. vacation of several months in 1936, Dodd devoted the fall to testing German reaction to a personal meeting between Roosevelt and Hitler, an initiative the President proposed, or a world peace conference. After a series of rebuffs, Dodd produced a report for the State Department dated November 28, 1936, which Assistant Secretary Moore commended and forwarded to Roosevelt. He decried the tendency of Europeans to refuse to believe that Hitler meant to carry out the expansionist plans he had outlined in \"Mein Kampf\". He described Hitler's success in outmaneuvering France and Great Britain diplomatically and forging ties with Italy and Spain. Assessing the current situation he wrote: \"there does not appear to be any vital force or combination of forces which will materially impede Germany in pursuit of her ambitions.\"\n\nMany in the State Department had reservations about Dodd's suitability for the job. He was neither a political figure of the sort normally honored with such a prestigious appointment, nor a member of the social elite that formed the higher ranks of the Foreign Service. In Berlin some of his subordinates were embarrassed by his insistence on living modestly, walking unaccompanied in the street, and leaving formal receptions so early as to appear rude. Dodd considered his insistence on living on his $17,500 annual salary a point of pride and criticized the posh lifestyle of other embassy officials.\n\nEarly in his tenure as ambassador, Dodd decided to avoid attending the annual Nazi Party rally in Nuremberg rather than appear to endorse Hitler's regime. In 1933, the State Department left the decision to him, and other ambassadors—including those of France and Great Britain—adopted a similar policy to Dodd's. As the Nazi Party became indistinguishable from the government, however, the State Department preferred that Dodd attend and avoid giving offense to the German government. State Department pressure increased each year until Dodd determined to avoid attending in 1937 by arranging a visit to the United States at the time of the rally. His advice against sending a representative of the U.S. embassy to attend the September 1937 Nazi Party congress in Nuremberg was overridden by his State Department superiors, and the State Department allowed its overruling of Dodd's position to become public. Hitler expressed his pleasure with the attendance of the U.S., Great Britain, and France for the first time, recognizing it as an \"innovation\" in policy.\n\nDodd considered resigning several times, beginning as early as July 1934.\n\nIn 1935, American journalist Marguerite Young interviewed Dodd at his own request for the CPUSA-controlled \"Daily Worker\". He described to her FDR's lack of support for him. She noted that Dodd met her because she already knew his daughter, Martha Dodd, who was (unbeknownst to her father) a Soviet spy. She wrote of Martha, \"his daughter, whom I'd met and liked, an attractive young woman, light yellow hair, large black velvet bow at the nape of her neck.\" Dodd reported to Young that his anger because the State Department had no \"secure communications\" or meetings: \"he could not make an appointment to meet privately with anyone in Berlin, even members of his staff, without its becoming known instantly ... both his critics and his supports knew what he was doing before he told them.\" Young filed the story–and it never appeared in print. She traveled to New York and met directly with Party secretary general Earl Browder. The only explanation that Browder offered was \"'You know that we are supporting Franklin D. Roosevelt' ... He just looked very solemn, implacable, and pious, pious, pious.\"\n\nBy 1936, his health had declined seriously and his clear antagonism to the German government increased his personal sense of defeat. During the 1936 U.S. election campaign, Dodd wrote a public letter warning that the defeat of Roosevelt's programs would produce a fascist dictatorship financed by an American billionaire: \"There are individuals of great wealth who wish a dictatorship ... There are politicians who think they may gain powers like those exercised in Europe. One man, I have been told by friends, who owns nearly a billion dollars, is ready to support such a program and, of course, control it.\" Several Senators called for him to be recalled from Germany and Senator William Borah called him \"an irresponsible scandalmonger.\" He supported Roosevelt's attempt to enlarge the membership of the Supreme Court, arguing that courts need to be responsive to popular wishes if the United States were to avoid totalitarian impulses. Consistent in interpreting American institutions in terms of their place on the aristocratic-democratic continuum, he viewed the Supreme Court as an aristocratic institution in need of an infusion of democracy. When he expressed these views in letters to senators, they reacted angrily and newspapers called for Dodd's resignation. Roosevelt told Dodd he was \"frankly delighted\" with the letter, but the public dispute embarrassed President Roosevelt and gave Dodd's enemies in the State Department an opportunity to press for his removal.\n\nPresident Roosevelt, reacting to complaints about Dodd's effectiveness as well as his health, notified the State Department in April 1937 that he was prepared to see Dodd's tenure end September 1. Then Dodd, on his arrival in the U.S. in August, said that \"the basic objective of some powers in Europe is to frighten and even destroy democracies everywhere,\" provoking a formal protest on the part of the German Ambassador to the U.S. Given that exchange, the State Department determined that it was more important that Dodd return to Germany than to allow his resignation to appear as a response to German protests. Dodd left a resignation letter and suggested the following March as a suitable date. In September, his dispute with the State Department over U.S. diplomatic presence at the Nuremberg rallies became public. The German government told the State Department that Dodd could no longer function in Berlin. Dodd was surprised when told in November to prepare to depart by the end of the year. His resignation was announced in December.\n\nDodd left Berlin without notifying the press. \"The New York Times\" reported that upon arriving in New York on January 6, 1938, he said that he \"doubted if an American envoy who held his ideals of democracy could represent his country successfully among the Germans at the present time.\" The German government said his remarks demonstrated \"the retiring ambassador's habitual lack of comprehension of the new Germany.\" Hitler said he felt \"vivid satisfaction\" with Dodd's replacement, career diplomat, Hugh R. Wilson, and \"Time\" magazine wrote:\n\nIn a speech at the Nuremberg Congress the following September, Nazi Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels denounced Dodd by name for his \"laments on the decay of German culture.\"\n\nIn 1937, Dodd stepped down as ambassador in Berlin, and President Roosevelt appointed Hugh Wilson, a senior professional diplomat, to replace him. After leaving his State Department post, he campaigned to warn against the dangers posed by Germany, Italy, and Japan, and detailed racial and religious persecution in Germany. He predicted German aggression against Austria, Czechoslovakia, and Poland. Dodd, who was in failing health, traveled on a speaking tour of Canada and the US, establishing his reputation as a statesman who opposed the Nazis.\n\nIn 1938, Dodd wrote an assessment of Nazi ideology and the Third Reich's plan for Europe. He stated:\n\nA volume of his planned four-volume history of the South was published in 1938 as \"The Old South: Struggles for Democracy\", covering the 17th century.\n\nDodd's wife died in May 1938.\n\nIn December 1938, Dodd accidentally ran over a 4-year-old African-American child and fled the scene. The child sustained severe injuries, but survived. Dodd was charged with leaving the scene of an accident, convicted, and fined $250 plus court costs. Dodd also paid more than $1000 for the child's medical bills.\n\nAfter a year's illness, Dodd died on February 9, 1940, at his country home at Round Hill, Loudoun County, Virginia.\n\nIn April 1946, during the Nuremberg trials, Dodd's diaries were used as evidence against Hjalmar Schacht, a liberal economist and banker, and a Nazi government official until the end of 1937. Schacht praised Dodd's character but suggested his views in the 1930s were tainted by his less than fluent German. He testified that Dodd was his friend who invited him to emigrate to the United States. Schacht's attorney described Dodd as \"one of the few accredited diplomats in Berlin who very obviously had no sympathy of any sort for the regime in power\".\n\nAssessments of Dodd's service in Berlin vary considerably, colored by what another ambassador might have accomplished. Hull in his \"Memoirs\" described Dodd as \"sincere though impulsive and inexperienced.\"\n\nMax Lerner later commented:\n\nDodd felt himself a failure both during his ambassadorship and after, having set himself the impossible standard of \"changing the Third Reich by example and persuasion.\" Historian Gerhard Weinberg believes no other ambassador to Nazi Germany was more effective, \"even if some were more popular and others better informed.\" He reports the assessment of George S. Messersmith, the embassy's consul general who worked closely with Dodd, who wrote that \"there were very few men who realized what was happening in Germany more thoroughly \" than Dodd, who proved ineffective because he \"was completely appalled by what was happening.\" Historian Franklin L. Ford faults Dodd for failing to provide \"concrete intelligence concerning \"immediate\" Nazi objectives and power\" as his peers were providing their superiors in London and Paris. He faults as well Dodd's nostalgic view of the Germany of his student years and centuries past that enabled him to view German anti-Semitism as a Nazi phenomenon driven personally by Hitler without recognizing its deeper roots in German society. A harsh critic of FDR's foreign policy called Dodd \"a tragic misfit\", \"a babe-in-the-woods in the dark forests of Berlin.\"\n\nDodd and his family's time in Nazi Germany are the subject of Erik Larson's bestselling 2011 work of popular history, \"In the Garden of Beasts\", which portrays Dodd as well meaning but naive and unprepared, believing as a historian that all national leaders are ultimately rational actors, and rendered helpless when he realizes that Hitler may in fact be completely irrational.\n\nDuring World War II the Liberty ship was built in Panama City, Florida, and named in his honor.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n\n"}
