{"id": "417534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=417534", "title": "Algorism", "text": "Algorism\n\nAlgorism is the technique of performing basic arithmetic by writing numbers in place value form and applying a set of memorized rules and facts to the digits. One who practices algorism is known as an algorist. This positional notation system largely superseded earlier calculation systems that used a different set of symbols for each numerical magnitude, such as Roman numerals, and in some cases required a device such as an abacus.\n\nThe word \"algorism\" comes from the name Al-Khwārizmī (c. 780–850), a Persian mathematician, astronomer, geographer and scholar in the House of Wisdom in Baghdad, whose name means \"the native of Khwarezm\", a city that was part of the Greater Iran during his era and now is in modern-day Uzbekistan He wrote a treatise in Arabic language in the 9th century, which was translated into Latin in the 12th century under the title \"Algoritmi de numero Indorum\". This title means \"Algoritmi on the numbers of the Indians\", where \"Algoritmi\" was the translator's Latinization of Al-Khwarizmi's name. Al-Khwarizmi was the most widely read mathematician in Europe in the late Middle Ages, primarily through his other book, the Algebra. In late medieval Latin, \"algorismus\", the corruption of his name, simply meant the \"decimal number system\" that is still the meaning of modern English algorism. During the 17th century, the French form for the word –but not its meaning– was changed to \"algorithm\", following the model of the word \"logarithm\", this form alluding to the ancient Greek . English adopted the French very soon afterwards, but it wasn't until the late 19th century that \"algorithm\" took on the meaning that it has in modern English. In English, it was first used about 1230 and then by Chaucer in 1391. Another early use of the word is from 1240, in a manual titled \"Carmen de Algorismo\" composed by Alexandre de Villedieu. It begins thus:\n\nwhich translates as:\nThe word \"algorithm\" also derives from \"algorism\", a generalization of the meaning to any set of rules specifying a computational procedure. Occasionally \"algorism\" is also used in this generalized meaning, especially in older texts.\n\nStarting with the integer arithmetic developed in India using base 10 notation, Al-Khwārizmī along with other mathematicians in medieval Islam, both Iranian and Arabic, documented new arithmetic methods and made many other contributions to decimal arithmetic (see the articles linked below). These included the concept of the decimal fractions as an extension of the notation, which in turn led to the notion of the decimal point. This system was popularized in Europe by Leonardo of Pisa, now known as Fibonacci.\n\n"}
{"id": "59503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59503", "title": "Bioaccumulation", "text": "Bioaccumulation\n\nBioaccumulation is the accumulation of substances, such as pesticides, or other chemicals in an organism. Bioaccumulation occurs when an organism absorbs a substance at a rate faster than that at which the substance is lost by catabolism and excretion. Thus, the longer the biological half-life of a toxic substance, the greater the risk of chronic poisoning, even if environmental levels of the toxin are not very high. Bioaccumulation, for example in fish, can be predicted by models. Hypotheses for molecular size cutoff criteria for use as bioaccumulation potential indicators are not supported by data. Biotransformation can strongly modify bioaccumulation of chemicals in an organism.\n\nBioconcentration is a related but more specific term, referring to uptake and accumulation of a substance from water alone. By contrast, bioaccumulation refers to uptake from all sources combined (e.g. water, food, air, etc.).\n\nAn example of poisoning in the workplace can be seen from the phrase \"mad as a hatter\" (18th and 19th century England). The process for stiffening the felt used in making hats more than a hundred years ago involved mercury, which forms organic species such as methylmercury, which is lipid-soluble, and tends to accumulate in the brain, resulting in mercury poisoning. Other lipid-soluble (fat-soluble) poisons include tetraethyllead compounds (the lead in leaded petrol), and DDT. These compounds are stored in the body's fat, and when the fatty tissues are used for energy, the compounds are released and cause acute poisoning.\n\nStrontium-90, part of the fallout from atomic bombs, is chemically similar enough to calcium that it is utilized in osteogenesis, where its radiation can cause damage for a long time.\n\nNaturally produced toxins can also bioaccumulate. The marine algal blooms known as \"red tides\" can result in local filter-feeding organisms such as mussels and oysters becoming toxic; coral fish can be responsible for the poisoning known as ciguatera when they accumulate a toxin called ciguatoxin from reef algae.\n\nSome animal species exhibit bioaccumulation as a mode of defense; by consuming toxic plants or animal prey, a species may accumulate the toxin, which then presents a deterrent to a potential predator. One example is the tobacco hornworm, which concentrates nicotine to a toxic level in its body as it consumes tobacco plants.\nPoisoning of small consumers can be passed along the food chain to affect the consumers later on.\nOther compounds that are not normally considered toxic can be accumulated to toxic levels in organisms. The classic example is of Vitamin A, which becomes concentrated in carnivore livers of e.g. polar bears: as a pure carnivore that feeds on other carnivores (seals), they accumulate extremely large amounts of Vitamin A in their livers. It was known by the native peoples of the Arctic that the livers of carnivores should not be eaten, but Arctic explorers have suffered Hypervitaminosis A from eating the bear livers (and there has been at least one example of similar poisoning of Antarctic explorers eating husky dog livers). One notable example of this is the expedition of Sir Douglas Mawson, where his exploration companion died from eating the liver of one of their dogs.\n\nCoastal fish (such as the smooth toadfish) and seabirds (such as the Atlantic puffin) are often monitored for heavy metal bioaccumulation.\n\nIn some eutrophic aquatic systems, biodilution can occur. This trend is a decrease in a contaminant with an increase in trophic level and is due to higher concentrations of algae and bacteria to \"dilute\" the concentration of the pollutant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44852980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44852980", "title": "California Technical Bulletin 117", "text": "California Technical Bulletin 117\n\nCalifornia Technical Bulletin 117 (TB 117) is a California fire safety law, first implemented in 1975. It has recently been updated as a Technical Bulletin 117-2013. The law requires furniture to meet certain fire safety standards.\n"}
{"id": "42470857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42470857", "title": "Chinta (mentation)", "text": "Chinta (mentation)\n\nChinta (Sanskrit: चिन्ता) in Hindu philosophy refers to mentation i.e. mental activity, especially thinking.\n\nThe word, Chintā (चिन्ता), is derived from the root – चिन्त् meaning - to think, consider, reflect, ponder over; and by itself means – thinking, thought, sad or sorrowful thought, reflection, consideration, anxiety \n\nChintā is one of thirty-three \"Vyabhichāri bhavas\", the transient feelings which rise irregularly and support the permanent basic sentiments, because of their fleeting nature they are also called \"sanchāri bhavas\". \"Manas\", which is the ordinary mental equipment of the individual, is the perceiving and arranging mind. In Samkhya system it refers to the personal organ of thought, not diffused like the\"ātman\" but localized in the individual. \"Manas\" has its own illumination (\"chetas\") which gives man awareness or consciousness (\"chetna\"), faculties of perception (\"pratyaksha\"), thought (\"chintā\"), imagination (\"kalpanā\") and volition (\"praytana\"). Chintā is the faculty whereby the current of thought dwells, thinks and contemplates upon the subject so recalled by \"Samarnam\" (memory), and previously known and determined by \"buddhi\" (intellect)\n\nRishi Shant Vaikhānsa of the Rig Veda (IX.66.25) in a mantra addressed to Soma tells us that\n\nwhen the material darkness is dispelled by the powerful purifying (पवमानस्य) light emanating from the divine source, coinciding therewith is also the destruction of the darkness of the mind (जङ्घ्नतः) (which darkness is ignorance), then that light (जीराः) (the bright divine source) which is Brahman (अजिराशोचिषः) is seen which delivers the \"yogins\" beyond all (imaginable) folds (barriers) of existence, which existence with reference to the body is gross but is subtle with reference to the mind. The epithet – Soma as the ever glowing one, is used with regard to Agni, Aditya and Brahman.\n\nSankara in his Vivekachudamani (Sloka 539) uses the term – चिन्ताशून्यम् (\"chintashoonyam\") as meaning without anxiety or worry (\"chinta\" here means anxiety). Chinmayananda Saraswati explains that it refers to the man of perfection to whom no thought comes to mind so as to disturb and destroy him because worry cannot reach him who refuses to worry.\n\nIn Vedanta, \"Chinta\", along with and therefore interconnected with \"vāsanā\" and \"karma\", is a factor which represents the chain of causation. \"Chinta\" and \"karmas\" create powerful \"vasanas\" and by themselves are the effects of \"vasanas\". \"Vasanas\" are not destroyed if \"chinta\" and \"karmas\" are not destroyed.\n\nGaudapada in his \"Karika\" on the Mandukya Upanishad (Slokas III.31-48) explains that all that there is, is perceived by the mind; when the mind ceases to be (stops thinking) duality is not perceived; the mind ceases to think as a consequence of the realisation of the Truth that it is the Self, it becomes a non-perceiver. Truth is known through knowledge and both are birth-less; the mind that does not lose itself when under control becomes the fearless Brahman possessed of the light of Consciousness; then all mentation (चिन्ता) stops, he states:-\n\nIn this verse, the word \"chinta\" derived in the sense of that by which things are thought of, means - the intellect. Gaudapada calls the moment of direct apprehension of the Paramatman (whose presence is known through the mind) the state of the highest Samadhi in which all talk is at an end, all anxiety is at an end. The learned people are those who are aware of the existence of Truth, and the enlightened one are those who have in their own way personally experienced, both know about the true nature of Truth.\n"}
{"id": "12825560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12825560", "title": "Choiceless awareness", "text": "Choiceless awareness\n\nChoiceless awareness is a major topic in the exposition of Indian philosopher Jiddu Krishnamurti (18951986). Beginning in the 1930s, he often commented on the subject, which became a recurring theme in his work. He is considered to have been mainly responsible for the subsequent interest in both the term and the concept.\n\nKrishnamurti held that outside of strictly practical, technical matters, the presence and action of choice indicates confusion and subtle bias: an individual who perceives a given situation in an unbiased manner, without distortion, and therefore with complete awareness, will immediately, naturally, act according to this awarenessthe action will be the manifestation and result of this awareness, rather than the result of choice. Such action (and quality of mind) is inherently without conflict.\n\nHe did not offer any method to achieve such awareness; in his view application of technique cannot possibly evolve into, or result in, true choicelessnessjust as unceasing application of effort leads to illusory effortlessness, in reality the action of habit; additionally, in his opinion all methods introduce potential or actual conflict, generated by the practitioner's efforts to comply. According to this analysis, all practices towards achieving choiceless awareness have the opposite effect: they inhibit its action in the present by treating it as a future, premeditated result, and moreover one that is conditioned by the practitioner's implied or expressed expectations. For true choicelessness to be realized, choiceimplicit or explicithas to simply, irrevocably, stop; however, the ceasing of choice is not the result of decision-making, but implies the ceasing of the functioning of the chooser or self as a psychological entity. Krishnamurti proposed that such a state might be approached through inquiry based on total attentiveness: identity is then dissolved in complete, all-encompassing attention. Therefore, he asserted that choiceless awareness is a natural attribute of non-self-centered perception, which he called \"observation without the observer\".\n\nAccordingly, Krishnamurti advised against following any doctrine, discipline, teacher, guru, or authority, including himself. He also advised against following one's own psychological knowledge and experience, which he considered integral parts of the observer. He denied the usefulness of all meditation techniques and methods, but not of meditation itself, which he called \"perhaps the greatest\" art in life; and stated that insight into choiceless awareness could be shared through open dialogue.\n\nKrishnamurti's ideas on choiceless awareness were discussed by among others, influential Hindu spiritual teacher Ramana Maharshi (18791950) and, following wide publication of his books, they attracted the attention of psychologists and psychoanalysts in the 1950s; in subsequent decades Krishnamurti held a number of discussions on this and related subjects with practicing psychotherapists and with researchers in the field. His views on the subject have been included in scholarly papers on existential therapy, education theory, and peace research, but they have also been discussed in less formal or structured settings.\n\nIn late1980, almost half a century after he started discussing it, Krishnamurti included the concept in \"The Core of Krishnamurti's Teaching\", a pivotal statement of his philosophy: \"Freedom is found in the choiceless awareness of our daily existence and activity.\n\nIn contrast with Krishnamurti's approach, other articulations commonly include choiceless awareness (or related ideas and terms) as part, or as the hoped-for result, of specific methodologies and meditation techniques. Similar concepts and terms appeared or developed in various traditional and contemporary religious or spiritual doctrines and texts, and also within secular disciplines such as psychotherapy, rehabilitation medicine, and counseling. Choiceless awareness has been examined within the context of philosophy of perception and behavior, while studies have cited its possible role in job performance. Other studies have linked meditation based on the concept (among others), with neural activity consistent with increased attentiveness, considered a factor of well-being and happiness.\n\nOne term that is often used as a near-synonym is mindfulness, which as a concept has similarities to or may include choiceless awareness. Initially part of Buddhist meditation practice, it has been adapted and utilized for contemporary psychological treatment, and has been applied as a component of integrative medicine programs.\n\nKindred themes can be found in the doctrine and meditation practices (such as Vipassanā) associated with the Theravada school of Buddhism; and also in 20th-century offshoots such as the Thai Forest Tradition and the Vipassana movement. Within these and similar fields, for example the Shikantaza practice in Zen Buddhism, choiceless (or effortless) awareness is considered to frequently be the result of a mature progression of practice.\n\nThe concept has been included in the discourse of transpersonal philosopher Ken Wilber (b. 1949), and also of independent Indian spiritual teacher Osho (Rajneesh) (19311990). Tibetan Buddhism teacher Chögyam Trungpa (19391987), who engaged in dialogue with Krishnamurti, used the term to describe the experience of shunyata (Śūnyatā)in Sanskrit, \"emptiness\", or \"ego-less perception\".\n\nAmong other fields, the term has appeared in dispute resolution theory and practice, and has found application in artistic endeavors. In dramatic theory, theater criticism, and acting, it has been used to denote spontaneous creativity and related practices or attempts; it has additionally appeared in music works. Author J. D. Salinger (19192010), who was interested in spirituality and alternative religions, was reputedly an adherent of Ramana Maharshi's ideas on choiceless awareness.\n\nContrary to press reports published in mid-20th-century, later interest in practices related to, or influenced by, choiceless awareness, has resulted in unambiguously favorable mentions in the popular press. Additionally, mass market general interest titles covering the subject have been published.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1688046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1688046", "title": "Civil rights movement (1896–1954)", "text": "Civil rights movement (1896–1954)\n\nThe African-American civil rights movement (1896–1954) was a long, primarily nonviolent series of events to bring full civil rights and equality under the law to all Americans. The era has had a lasting impact on United States society, in its tactics, the increased social and legal acceptance of civil rights, and in its exposure of the prevalence and cost of racism.\n\nTwo United States Supreme Court decisions—\"Plessy v. Ferguson\", , which upheld \"separate but equal\" racial segregation as constitutional doctrine, and \"Brown v. Board of Education\", which overturned \"Plessy\"—serve as milestones. This was an era of new beginnings, in which some movements, such as Marcus Garvey's Universal Negro Improvement Association, were very successful but left little lasting legacy, while others, such as the NAACP's painstaking legal assault on state-sponsored segregation, achieved modest results in its early years but made steady progress on voter rights and gradually built to a key victory in \"Brown v. Board of Education\" (1954).\n\nAfter the Civil War, the US expanded the legal rights of African Americans. Congress passed, and enough states ratified, an amendment ending slavery in 1865—the 13th Amendment to the United States Constitution. This amendment only outlawed slavery; it provided neither citizenship nor equal rights. In 1868, the 14th Amendment was ratified by the states, granting African Americans citizenship. All persons born in the US were extended equal protection under the laws of the Constitution. The 15th Amendment (ratified in 1870) stated that race could not be used as a condition to deprive men of the ability to vote. During Reconstruction (1865–1877), Northern troops occupied the South. Together with the Freedmen's Bureau, they tried to administer and enforce the new constitutional amendments. Many black leaders were elected to local and state offices, and many others organized community groups, especially to support education.\n\nReconstruction ended following the Compromise of 1877 between Northern and Southern white elites. In exchange for deciding the contentious Presidential election in favor of Rutherford B. Hayes, supported by Northern states, over his opponent, Samuel J. Tilden, the compromise called for the withdrawal of Northern troops from the South. This followed violence and fraud in southern elections from 1868 to 1876, which had reduced black voter turnout and enabled Southern white Democrats to regain power in state legislatures across the South. The compromise and withdrawal of Federal troops meant that white Democrats had more freedom to impose and enforce discriminatory practices. Many African Americans responded to the withdrawal of federal troops by leaving the South in what is known as the Kansas Exodus of 1879.\n\nThe Radical Republicans, who spearheaded Reconstruction, had attempted to eliminate both governmental and private discrimination by legislation. That effort was largely ended by the Supreme Court's decision in the Civil Rights Cases, , in which the Court held that the Fourteenth Amendment did not give Congress power to outlaw racial discrimination by private individuals or businesses.\n\nThe Supreme Court's decision in \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" (1896) upheld state-mandated discrimination in public transportation under the \"separate but equal\" doctrine. As Justice Harlan, the only member of the Court to dissent from the decision, predicted:\nIf a state can prescribe, as a rule of civil conduct, that whites and blacks shall not travel as passengers in the same railroad coach, why may it not so regulate the use of the streets of its cities and towns as to compel white citizens to keep on one side of a street, and black citizens to keep on the other? Why may it not, upon like grounds, punish whites and blacks who ride together in street cars or in open vehicles on a public road or street? . . . .\nThe \"Plessy\" decision did not address an earlier Supreme Court case, \"Yick Wo v. Hopkins\", 118 U.S. 356 (1886), involving discrimination against Chinese immigrants, that held that a law that is race-neutral on its face, but is administered in a prejudicial manner, is an infringement of the Equal Protection Clause in the Fourteenth Amendment to the US Constitution.\nWhile in the 20th century, the Supreme Court began to overturn state statutes that disenfranchised African Americans, as in \"Guinn v. United States\" (1915), with \"Plessy\", it upheld segregation that Southern states enforced in nearly every other sphere of public and private life.\nThe Court soon extended \"Plessy\" to uphold segregated schools. In \"Berea College v. Kentucky\", , the Court upheld a Kentucky statute that barred Berea College, a private institution, from teaching both black and white students in an integrated setting. Many states, particularly in the South, took \"Plessy\" and \"Berea\" as blanket approval for restrictive laws, generally known as \"Jim Crow laws\", that created second-class status for African Americans.\n\nIn many cities and towns, African Americans were not allowed to share a taxi with whites or enter a building through the same entrance. They had to drink from separate water fountains, use separate restrooms, attend separate schools, be buried in separate cemeteries and swear on separate Bibles. They were excluded from restaurants and public libraries. Many parks barred them with signs that read \"Negroes and dogs not allowed.\" One municipal zoo listed separate visiting hours.\n\nThe etiquette of racial segregation was harsher, particularly in the South. African Americans were expected to step aside to let a white person pass, and black men dared not look any white woman in the eye. Black men and women were addressed as \"Tom\" or \"Jane\", but rarely as \"Mr.\" or \"Miss\" or \"Mrs,\" titles then widely in use for adults. Whites referred to black men of any age as \"boy\" and a black woman as \"girl\"; both often were called by labels such as \"nigger\" or \"colored.\"\n\nLess formal social segregation in the North began to yield to change. In 1941, however, the United States Naval Academy, based in segregated Maryland, refused to play a lacrosse game against Harvard University because Harvard's team included a black player.\n\nJackie Robinson was a sports pioneer of the civil rights movement, best known for becoming the first African American to play professional sports in the major leagues. \nRobinson debuted with the Brooklyn Dodgers of Major League Baseball on April 15, 1947. His first major league game came one year before the US Army was integrated, seven years before \"Brown v. Board of Education\", eight years before Rosa Parks, and before Martin Luther King Jr. was leading the movement.\n\nFollowing the Civil War, black leaders made substantial progress in establishing representation in the Republican Party.\n\nAmong the most prominent was Norris Wright Cuney, the Republican Party chairman in late 19th century Texas. These gains led to substantial discomfort among many white voters, who generally supported the Democrats. During the 1888 Texas Republican Convention, Cuney coined the term \"lily-white movement\" to describe efforts by white conservatives to oust blacks from positions of party leadership and incite riots to divide the party. Increasingly organized efforts by this movement gradually eliminated black leaders from the party. The writer Michael Fauntroy contends that the effort was coordinated with Democrats as part of a larger movement toward disenfranchisement of blacks in the South at the end of the 19th and beginning of the 20th century by increasing restrictions in voter registration rules.\n\nFollowing biracial victories by a Populist-Republican slates in several states, by the late 19th century the Democratic Party had regained control of most state legislatures in the South. From 1890 to 1908, they accomplished disenfranchisement of blacks and, in some states, many poor whites. Despite repeated legal challenges and some successes by the NAACP, the Democrats continued to devise new ways to limit black electoral participation, such as white primaries, through the 1960s.\n\nNationally, the Republican Party tried to respond to black interests. Theodore Roosevelt, president 1901–1909, had a mixed record on race relations. He relied extensively on the backstage advice of Booker T. Washington regarding patronage appointments across the South. He publicly invited Washington to dinner at the White House, thereby challenging racist attitudes. On the other hand, he began the system of segregating federal employees; and he cracked down on black soldiers who refused to testify against each other in the Brownsville Affair of 1906. In order to defeat his successor William Howard Taft for the Republican nomination in 1912, Roosevelt pursued a Lily-white policy in the South. This new progressive party of 1912 was supportive of black rights in the North, but excluded all black members in the South.\n\nRepublicans in Congress repeatedly proposed federal legislation to prohibit lynching, which was always defeated by the Southern block. In 1920 Republicans made opposition to lynching part of their platform at the Republican National Convention. Lynchings, primarily of black men in the South, had increased in the decades around the turn of the 20th century. Leonidas C. Dyer, a white Republican Representative from St. Louis, Missouri, worked with the NAACP to introduce an anti-lynching bill into the House, where he gained strong passage in 1922. His effort was defeated by the Southern Democratic block in the Senate, which filibustered the bill that year, and in 1923 and 1924.\n\nOpponents of black civil rights used economic reprisals and frequently violence at the polls in the 1870s and 1880s to discourage blacks from registering to vote or voting. Paramilitary groups such as the Red Shirts in Mississippi and the Carolinas, and the White League in Louisiana, practiced open intimidation on behalf of the Democratic Party. By the turn of the 20th century, white Democratic-dominated Southern legislatures disfranchised nearly all age-eligible African-American voters through a combination of statute and constitutional provisions. While requirements applied to all citizens, in practice, they were targeted at blacks and poor whites (and Mexican Americans in Texas), and subjectively administered. The feature \"Turnout in Presidential and Midterm Elections\" at the following University of Texas website devoted to politics, shows the drastic drop in voting as these provisions took effect in Southern states compared to the rest of the US, and the longevity of the measures.\n\nMississippi passed a new constitution in 1890 that included provisions for poll taxes, literacy tests (which depended on the arbitrary decisions of white registrars), and complicated record keeping to establish residency, which severely reduced the number of blacks who could register. It was litigated before the Supreme Court. In 1898, in \"Williams v. Mississippi\", the Court upheld the state. Other Southern states quickly adopted the \"Mississippi plan\", and from 1890 to 1908, ten states adopted new constitutions with provisions to disfranchise most blacks and many poor whites. States continued to disfranchise these groups for decades, until mid-1960s federal legislation provided for oversight and enforcement of constitutional voting rights.\n\nBlacks were most adversely affected, and in many southern states black voter turnout dropped to zero. Poor whites were also disfranchised. In Alabama, for instance, by 1941, 600,000 poor whites had been disfranchised, as well as 520,000 blacks.\n\nIt was not until the 20th century that litigation by African Americans on such provisions began to meet some success before the Supreme Court. In 1915 in \"Guinn v. United States\", the Court declared Oklahoma's 'grandfather clause' to be unconstitutional. Although the decision affected all states that used the grandfather clause, state legislatures quickly employed new devices to continue disfranchisement. Each provision or statute had to be litigated separately. The NAACP, founded in 1909, litigated against many such provisions.\n\nOne device which the Democratic Party began to use more widely in Southern states in the early 20th century was the white primary, which served for decades to disfranchise the few blacks who managed to get past barriers of voter registration. Barring blacks from voting in the Democratic Party primaries meant they had no chance to vote in the only competitive contests, as the Republican Party was then weak in the South. White primaries were not struck down by the Supreme Court until \"Smith v. Allwright\" in 1944.\n\nIn 1880, the United States Supreme Court ruled in \"Strauder v. West Virginia\", that African Americans could not be excluded from juries. But, beginning in 1890 with new state constitutions and electoral laws, the South effectively disfranchised blacks in the South, which routinely disqualified them for jury duty which was limited to voters. This left them at the mercy of a white justice system arrayed against them. In some states, particularly Alabama, the state used the criminal justice system to reestablish a form of peonage, through the convict-lease system. The state sentenced black males to years of imprisonment, which they spent working without pay. The state leased prisoners to private employers, such as Tennessee Coal, Iron and Railroad Company, a subsidiary of United States Steel Corporation, which paid the state for their labor. Because the state made money, the system created incentives for the jailing of more men, who were disproportionately black. It also created a system in which treatment of prisoners received little oversight.\n\nExtrajudicial punishment was more brutal. During the last decade of the 19th century and the first decades of the 20th century, white vigilante mobs lynched thousands of black males, sometimes with the overt assistance of state officials, mostly within the South. No whites were charged with crimes in any of those murders. Whites were so confident of their immunity from prosecution for lynching that they not only photographed the victims, but made postcards out of the pictures.\n\nThe Ku Klux Klan, which had largely disappeared after a brief violent career in the early years of Reconstruction, reappeared in 1915. It grew mostly in industrializing cities of the South and Midwest that underwent the most rapid growth from 1910 to 1930. Social instability contributed to racial tensions that resulted from severe competition for jobs and housing. People joined KKK groups because they were anxious about their place in American society, as cities were rapidly changed by a combination of industrialization, migration of blacks and whites from the rural South, and waves of increased immigration from mostly rural southern and eastern Europe.\n\nInitially the KKK presented itself as another fraternal organization devoted to betterment of its members. The KKK's revival was inspired in part by the movie \"Birth of a Nation\", which glorified the earlier Klan and dramatized the racist stereotypes concerning blacks of that era. The Klan focused on political mobilization, which allowed it to gain power in states such as Indiana, on a platform that combined racism with anti-immigrant, anti-Semitic, anti-Catholic and anti-union rhetoric, but also supported lynching. It reached its peak of membership and influence about 1925, declining rapidly afterward as opponents mobilized.\n\nRepublicans repeatedly introduced bills in the House to make lynching a federal crime, but they were defeated by the Southern block. In 1920 the Republicans made an anti-lynching bill part of their platform and achieved passage in the House by a wide margin. Southern Democrats in the Senate repeatedly filibustered the bill to prevent a vote, and defeated it in the 1922, 1923 and 1924 sessions as they held the rest of the legislative program hostage.\n\nWhite society also kept blacks in a position of economic subservience or marginality. Most black farmers in the South by the early 20th century worked as sharecroppers or tenant farmers. Relatively few were landowners.\n\nEmployers and labor unions generally restricted African Americans to the worst paid and least desirable jobs. Because of the lack of steady, well-paid jobs, relatively undistinguished positions, such as those with the Pullman Porter or as hotel doorman, became prestigious positions in black communities in the North. The expansion of railroads meant that they recruited in the South for laborers, and tens of thousands of blacks moved North to work with the Pennsylvania Railroad, for example, during the period of the Great Migration.\n\nThe nadir of race relations was reached in the early 20th century, in terms of political and legal rights. Blacks were increasingly segregated. Cut off from the larger white community, however, black entrepreneurs succeeded in establishing flourishing businesses that catered to a black clientele, including professionals. In urban areas, north and south, the size and income of the black population was growing, providing openings for a wide range of businesses, from barbershops to insurance companies. Undertakers had a special niche in their communities, and often played a political role, as they were widely known and knew many of their constituents.\n\nHistorian Juliet Walker calls 1900–1930 the \"Golden age of black business.\" According to the National Negro Business League, the number black-owned businesses doubled rapidly, from 20,000 in 1900 to 40,000 in 1914. There were 450 undertakers in 1900, rising to 1000 in this time period. The number of black-owned drugstores rose from 250 to 695. Local retail merchants – most of them quite small – jumped from 10,000 to 25,000. One of the most famous entrepreneurs was Madame C.J. Walker (1867–1919), who built a national franchise business called Madame C.J. Walker Manufacturing Company, based on her development of the first successful hair straightening process.\n\nBooker T. Washington, who ran the National Negro Business League and was president of the Tuskegee Institute, was the most prominent promoter of black business. He traveled from city to city to sign up local entrepreneurs into the national league.\nCharles Clinton Spaulding (1874–1952), an ally of Washington, was the most prominent black American business leader of his day. Behind the scenes he was an advisor to President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the 1930s, with the goal of promoting a black political leadership class. He founded North Carolina Mutual Life Insurance Company, which became America's largest black-owned business, with assets of over $40 million at his death.\n\nAlthough black business flourished in urban areas, it was severely handicapped in the rural South where the great majority of blacks lived. Blacks were farmers who depended on one cash crop, typically cotton or tobacco. They chiefly traded with local white merchants. The primary reason was that the local country stores provided credit, that is the provided supplies the farm and family needed, including tools, seeds, food and clothing, on a credit basis until the bill was paid off at harvest time. Black businessmen had too little access to credit to enter this business. Indeed, there were only a small number of wealthy blacks; overwhelmingly they were real estate speculators in the fast-growing cities, typified by Robert Church in Memphis.\n\nMinority entrepreneurship entered the national agenda in 1927 when Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover set up a Division of Negro Affairs to provide advice, and disseminate information to both white and black businessmen on how to reach the black consumer. Entrepreneurship was not on the New Deal agenda of Franklin D. Roosevelt. However, when he turned to war preparation in 1940, he used this agency to help black business secure defense contracts. Black businesses had not been oriented toward manufacturing, and generally were too small to secure any major contracts. President Eisenhower disbanded the agency in 1953.\n\nPresident Roosevelt issued two Executive Orders directing defense contractors to hire, promote and fire without regard for racial discrimination. In areas such as West Coast shipyards and other industries, blacks began to gain more of the skilled and higher-paying jobs and supervisory positions.\n\nThis period saw the maturing of independent black churches, whose leaders were usually also strong community leaders. Blacks had left white churches and the Southern Baptist Convention to set up their own churches free of white supervision immediately during and after the American Civil War. With the help of northern associations, they quickly began to set up state conventions and, by 1895, joined several associations into the black National Baptist Convention, the first of that denomination among blacks. In addition, independent black denominations, such as the African Methodist Episcopal Church and AME Zion Church, had made hundreds of thousands of converts in the South, founding AME churches across the region. The churches were centers of community activity, especially organizing for education.\n\nContinuing to see education as the primary route of advancement and critical for the race, many talented blacks went into teaching, which had high respect as a profession. Segregated schools for blacks were underfunded in the South and ran on shortened schedules in rural areas. Despite segregation, in Washington, DC by contrast, as Federal employees, black and white teachers were paid on the same scale. Outstanding black teachers in the North received advanced degrees and taught in highly regarded schools, which trained the next generation of leaders in cities such as Chicago, Washington, and New York, whose black populations had increased in the 20th century due to the Great Migration.\n\nEducation was one of the major achievements of the black community in the 19th century. Blacks in Reconstruction governments had supported the establishment of public education in every Southern state. Despite the difficulties, with the enormous eagerness of freedmen for education, by 1900 the African-American community had trained and put to work 30,000 African-American teachers in the South. In addition, a majority of the black population had achieved literacy. Not all the teachers had a full 4-year college degree in those years, but the shorter terms of normal schools were part of the system of teacher training in both the North and the South to serve the many new communities across the frontier. African-American teachers got many children and adults started on education.\n\nNorthern alliances had helped fund normal schools and colleges to teach African-American teachers, as well as create other professional classes. The American Missionary Association, supported largely by the Congregational and Presbyterian churches, had helped fund and staff numerous private schools and colleges in the South, who collaborated with black communities to train generations of teachers and other leaders. Major 20th-century industrialists, such as George Eastman of Rochester, New York, acted as philanthropists and made substantial donations to black educational institutions such as Tuskegee Institute.\n\nIn 1862, the US Congress passed the Morrill Act, which established federal funding of a land grant college in each state, but 17 states refused to admit black students to their land grant colleges. In response, Congress enacted the second Morrill Act of 1890, which required states that excluded blacks from their existing land grant colleges to open separate institutions and to equitably divide the funds between the schools. The colleges founded in response to the second Morill Act became today's public historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs) and, together with the private HBCUs and the unsegregated colleges in the North and West, provided higher educational opportunities to African Americans. Federally funded extension agents from the land grant colleges spread knowledge about scientific agriculture and home economics to rural communities with agents from the HBCUs focusing on black farmers and families.\n\nIn the 19th century, blacks formed fraternal organizations across the South and the North, including an increasing number of women's clubs. They created and supported institutions that increased education, health and welfare for black communities. After the turn of the 20th century, black men and women also began to found their own college fraternities and sororities to create additional networks for lifelong service and collaboration. These were part of the new organizations that strengthened independent community life under segregation.\n\nTuskegee took the lead in spreading industrial education to Africa, typically in cooperation with church missionary efforts.\n\nAs the center of community life, Black churches were integral leaders and organizers in the civil rights movement. Their history as a focal point for the Black community and as a link between the Black and White worlds made them natural for this purpose. Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. was but one of many notable Black ministers involved in the movement. Ralph David Abernathy, Bernard Lee, Fred Shuttlesworth, and C.T. Vivian are among the many notable minister-activists. They were especially important during the later years of the movement in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, Booker T. Washington was regarded, particularly by the white community, as the foremost spokesman for African Americans in the US. Washington, who led the Tuskegee Institute, preached a message of self-reliance. He urged blacks to concentrate on improving their economic position rather than demanding social equality until they had proved that they \"deserved\" it. Publicly, he accepted the continuation of Jim Crow and segregation in the short term, but privately helped to fund national court cases that challenged the laws.\n\nW. E. B. Du Bois and others in the black community rejected Washington's apology for segregation. One of his close associates, William Monroe Trotter, was arrested after challenging Washington when he came to deliver a speech in Boston in 1905. Later that year Du Bois and Trotter convened a meeting of black activists on the Canadian side of Niagara Falls. They issued a manifesto calling for universal manhood suffrage, elimination of all forms of racial segregation and extension of education—not limited to the vocational education that Washington emphasized—on a nondiscriminatory basis. The Niagara Movement was actively opposed by Washington, and had effectively collapsed due to internal divisions by 1908.\n\nDu Bois joined with other black leaders and white activists, such as Mary White Ovington, Oswald Garrison Villard, William English Walling, Henry Moskowitz, Julius Rosenthal, Lillian Wald, Rabbi Emil G. Hirsch, and Stephen Wise to create the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) in 1909. Du Bois also became editor of its magazine \"The Crisis\". In its early years, the NAACP concentrated on using the courts to attack Jim Crow laws and disfranchising constitutional provisions. It successfully challenged the Louisville, Kentucky ordinance that required residential segregation in \"Buchanan v. Warley\", . It also gained a Supreme Court ruling striking down Oklahoma's \"grandfather clause\" that exempted most illiterate white voters from a law that disfranchised African-American citizens in \"Guinn v. United States\" (1915).\n\nSegregation in the federal civil service began under President Theodore Roosevelt, and continued under President Taft. President Wilson allowed his cabinet to escalate the process, ignoring complaints by the NAACP. The NAACP lobbied for commissioning of African Americans as officers in World War I. It was arranged for Du Bois to receive an Army commission, but he failed his physical. In 1915 the NAACP organized public education and protests in cities across the nation against D.W. Griffith's film \"Birth of a Nation\", a film that glamorized the Ku Klux Klan. Boston and a few other cities refused to allow the film to open.\n\nMany from the American Jewish community tacitly or actively supported the civil rights movement. Several of the co-founders of the NAACP were Jewish. In the latter part of the 20th century, many of its white members and leading activists came from within the Jewish community.\n\nJewish philanthropists actively supported the NAACP and various civil rights group, and schools for African Americans. The Jewish philanthropist Julius Rosenwald supported the construction of thousands of primary and secondary schools for black youth in the rural South; the public school system was segregated and black facilities were historically underfunded. In partnership with Booker T. Washington and Tuskegee University, Rosenwald created a matching fund which provided seed money for building. Tuskegee Institute architects created model school plans. Black communities essentially taxed themselves twice to raise funds for such schools, which required community matching funds. Often most of the residents in rural areas were blacks. Public funds were committed for the schools, and blacks raised additional funds by community events, donating land and labor, and sometimes by members' getting second mortgages on their homes. Hoping to encourage collaboration, Rosenwald required the white school systems to support the schools by approving them. At one time some forty percent of rural southern blacks were learning at Rosenwald elementary schools; nearly 5,000 were built in total.\n\nRosenwald also contributed to HBCUs such as Howard, Dillard and Fisk universities.\n\nThe PBS television show \"From Swastika to Jim Crow\" discussed Jewish involvement in the civil rights movement. It recounted that Jewish scholars fleeing from or surviving the Holocaust of World War II came to teach at many Southern schools, where they reached out to black students:\n\nThus, in the 1930s and 1940s when Jewish refugee professors arrived at Southern Black Colleges, there was a history of overt empathy between Blacks and Jews, and the possibility of truly effective collaboration. Professor Ernst Borinski organized dinners at which Blacks and Whites would have to sit next to each other—a simple yet revolutionary act. Black students empathized with the cruelty these scholars had endured in Europe and trusted them more than other Whites. In fact, often Black students—as well as members of the Southern White community—saw these refugees as \"some kind of colored folk.\"\n\nAfter World War II particularly, the American Jewish Committee, American Jewish Congress, and Anti-Defamation League (ADL) became active in promoting civil rights.\n\nThe experience of fighting in World War I along with exposure to different racial attitudes in Europe influenced the black veterans by creating a widespread demand for the freedoms and equality for which they had fought. Those veterans found conditions at home as bad as ever. Some were assaulted even while wearing their uniforms in public. This generation responded with a far more militant spirit than the generation before, urging blacks to fight back when whites attacked them. A. Philip Randolph introduced the term the \"New Negro\" in 1917; it became the catchphrase to describe the new spirit of militancy and impatience of the post-war era.\n\nA group known as the African Blood Brotherhood, a socialist group with a large number of Caribbean émigrés in its leadership, organized around 1920 to demand the same sort of self-determination for black Americans that the Wilson administration was promising to Eastern European peoples at the Versailles conference in the aftermath of World War I. The leaders of the Brotherhood, many of whom joined the Communist Party in the years to come, were also inspired by the anti-imperialist program of the new Soviet Union.\n\nIn addition, during the Great Migration, hundreds of thousands of African Americans moved to northern and midwestern industrial cities starting before World War I and through 1940. Another wave of migration during and after World War II led many to West Coast cities, as well as more in the North and Midwest. They were both fleeing violence and segregation and seeking jobs, as manpower shortages in war industries promised steady work. Continued depressed conditions in the farm economy of the South in the 1920s made the north look more appealing. Those expanding northern communities confronted familiar problems—racism, poverty, police abuse and official hostility—but these were in a new setting, where the men could vote (and women, too, after 1920), and possibilities for political action were far broader than in the South.\n\nMarcus Garvey's Universal Negro Improvement Association made great strides in organizing in these new communities in the North, and among the internationalist-minded \"New Negro\" movement in the early 1920s. Garvey's program pointed in the opposite direction from mainstream civil rights organizations such as the NAACP; instead of striving for integration into white-dominated society, Garvey's program of Pan Africanism has become known as Garveyism. It encourages economic independence within the system of racial segregation in the United States, an African Orthodox Church with a black Jesus and black Virgin Mother that offered an alternative to the white Jesus of the black church, and a campaign that urged African Americans to \"return to Africa\", if not physically, at least in spirit. Garvey attracted thousands of supporters, both in the United States and in the African diaspora in the Caribbean, and claimed eleven million members for the UNIA, which was broadly popular in Northern black communities.\n\nGarvey's movement was a contradictory mix of defeatism, accommodation and separatism: he married themes of self-reliance that Booker T. Washington could have endorsed and the \"gospel of success\" so popular in white America in the 1920s with a rejection of colonialism worldwide and rejection of racial inferiority. The movement at first attracted many of the foreign-born radicals also associated with the Socialist and Communist parties, but drove many of them away when Garvey began to suspect them of challenging his control.\n\nThe movement collapsed nearly as quickly as it blossomed, as the federal government convicted Garvey for mail fraud in 1922 in connection with the movement's financially troubled \"Black Star Line\". The government commuted Garvey's sentence and deported Garvey to his native Jamaica in 1927. While the movement floundered without him, it inspired other self-help and separatist movements that followed, including Father Divine and the Nation of Islam.\n\nThe labor movement, with some exceptions, had historically excluded African Americans. While the radical labor organizers who led organizing drives among packinghouse workers in Chicago and Kansas City during World War I and the steel industry in 1919 made determined efforts to appeal to black workers, they were not able to overcome the widespread distrust of the labor movement among black workers in the North. With the ultimate defeat of both of those organizing drives, the black community and the labor movement largely returned to their traditional mutual mistrust.\n\nLeft-wing political activists in the labor movement made some progress in the 1920s and 1930s, however, in bridging that gap. A. Phillip Randolph, a long-time member of the Socialist Party of America, took the leadership of the fledgling Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters at its founding in 1925. Randolph and the union faced opposition not only from the Pullman Company, but from the press and churches within the black community, many of whom were the beneficiaries of financial support from the company. The union eventually won over many of its critics in the black community by wedding its organizing program with the larger goal of black empowerment. The union won recognition from the Pullman Company in 1935 after a ten-year campaign, and a union contract in 1937.\n\nThe BSCP became the only black-led union within the American Federation of Labor in 1935. Randolph chose to remain within the AFL when the Congress of Industrial Organizations split from it. The CIO was much more committed to organizing African-American workers and made strenuous efforts to persuade the BSCP to join it, but Randolph believed more could be done to advance black workers' rights, particularly in the railway industry, by remaining in the AFL, to which the other railway brotherhoods belonged. Randolph remained the voice for black workers within the labor movement, raising demands for elimination of Jim Crow unions within the AFL at every opportunity. BSCP members such as Edgar Nixon played a significant role in the civil rights struggles of the following decades.\n\nMany of the CIO unions, in particular the Packinghouse Workers, the United Auto Workers and the Mine, Mill and Smelter Workers made advocacy of civil rights part of their organizing strategy and bargaining priorities: they gained improvements for workers in meatpacking in Chicago and Omaha, and in the steel and related industries throughout the Midwest. The Transport Workers Union of America, which had strong ties with the Communist Party at the time, entered into coalitions with Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., the NAACP and the National Negro Congress to attack employment discrimination in public transit in New York City in the early 1940s.\n\nThe CIO was particularly vocal in calling for elimination of racial discrimination by defense industries during World War II; they were also forced to combat racism within their own membership, putting down strikes by white workers who refused to work with black co-workers. While many of these \"hate strikes\" were short-lived: a wildcat strike launched in Philadelphia in 1944 when the federal government ordered the private transit company to desegregate its workforce lasted two weeks and was ended only when the Roosevelt administration sent troops to guard the system and arrested the strike's ringleaders.\n\nRandolph and the BSCP took the battle against employment discrimination even further, threatening a March on Washington in 1942 if the government did not take steps to outlaw racial discrimination by defense contractors. Randolph limited the March on Washington Movement to black organizations to maintain black leadership; he endured harsh criticism from others on the left for his insistence on black workers' rights in the middle of a war. Randolph only dropped the plan to march after winning substantial concessions from the Roosevelt administration.\n\n\"See\" The Communist Party and African-Americans.\n\nIn 1931, the NAACP and the Communist Party USA also organized support for the \"Scottsboro Boys\", nine black men arrested after a fight with some white men also riding the rails, then convicted and sentenced to death for allegedly raping two white women dressed in men's clothes later found on the same train. The NAACP and the CP fought over the control of those cases and the strategy to be pursued; the CP and its arm the International Labor Defense largely prevailed. The ILD's legal campaign produced two significant Supreme Court decisions (\"Powell v. Alabama\" and \"Norris v. Alabama\") extending the rights of defendants; its political campaign saved all the defendants from the death sentence and ultimately led to freedom for most of them.\n\nThe Scottsboro defense was only one of the ILD's many cases in the South; for a period in the early and mid-1930s, the ILD was the most active defender of blacks' civil rights, and the Communist Party attracted many members among activist African Americans. Its campaigns for black defendants' rights did much to focus national attention on the extreme conditions which black defendants faced in the criminal justice system throughout the South.\n\nThe NAACP operated primarily at the local level, providing as forum that brought black religious, professional and business elites in most large cities. Baltimore was a pioneer in battling for issues that dominated the agendas of the post-World War II civil rights and Black Power movements. Baltimore activists were protest pioneers during the 1930s and 1940s. They organized in the city city to fight against housing discrimination, school segregation, prison conditions, and police brutality.\n\nThe NAACP devoted much of its energy between the first and second world wars to mobilizing a crusade against the lynching of blacks. It investigated the serious race riots in numerous major industrial cities throughout the United States in what was called the \"Red Summer of 1919,\" catalyzed by postwar economic and social tensions. These were white on black attacks, but that summer, blacks began to fight back, in Chicago and other cities.\n\nThe organization sent Walter F. White, who later became its general secretary, to Phillips County, Arkansas in October 1919 to investigate the Elaine Race Riot. In that year, it was unusual for being a rural riot: more than 200 black tenant farmers were killed for trying to organize a union. They were murdered by roving white vigilantes and federal troops after a deputy sheriff's attack on a union meeting of sharecroppers left one white man dead. The NAACP organized the appeals for twelve men sentenced to death a month later, based on their testimony having been obtained by beating and electric shocks. The groundbreaking United States Supreme Court decision in \"Moore v. Dempsey\", , significantly expanded the Federal courts' oversight of the states' criminal justice systems in the years to come.\n\nThe NAACP worked for more than a decade seeking federal anti-lynching legislation. Its offices in New York City regularly displayed a black flag out the window - stating \"A Man Was Lynched Yesterday\" - to mark each outrage. Efforts to pass an anti-lynching law foundered on the power of the Solid South; Southern Democrats in the Senate controlled power in Congress. For instance, while Republicans achieved passage in the House of an anti-lynching law in 1922, Southern Democratic senators filibustered the bill in the Senate and defeated it in the 1922, 1923 and 1924 legislative sessions. Because positions were awarded by seniority and the South was a one-party region, its Democratic congressmen controlled important chairmanships in both houses of Congress. The South defeated all anti-lynching legislative bills.\n\nThe NAACP led the successful fight, in alliance with the American Federation of Labor, to prevent the nomination of John Johnston Parker to the Supreme Court. They opposed him because of his opposition to black suffrage and his anti-labor rulings. This alliance and lobbying campaign were important for the NAACP, both in demonstrating the NAACP's ability to mobilize widespread opposition to racism and as a first step toward building political alliances with the labor movement.\n\nElbert Williams of Brownsville, Tennessee, is believed to be the first NAACP member lynched for his civil rights activities, killed on June 20, 1940. He had been part of an NAACP effort in 1940 to register black voters in his city for that year's presidential election. Whites targeted other NAACP members, threatening them, and ran several families out of town who feared for their safety. In 2015 the Tennessee Historical Commission approved a marker commemorating Elbert Williams in Brownsville.\n\nAfter World War II, African-American veterans returning to the South were spurred by their sacrifices and experiences to renew demands for the protection and exercise of their constitutional rights as citizens in US society. One serviceman reportedly said, \nI spent four years in the Army to free a bunch of Dutchmen and Frenchmen, and I'm hanged if I'm going to let the Alabama version of the Germans kick me around when I get home. No sirree-bob! I went into the Army a nigger; I'm comin' out a man.From 1940 to 1946, the NAACP's membership grew from 50,000 to 450,000.\n\nThe NAACP's legal department, headed by Charles Hamilton Houston and Thurgood Marshall, undertook a litigation campaign spanning several decades to bring about the reversal of the \"separate but equal\" doctrine established in the Supreme Court's decision in \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" (1896). Instead of appealing to the legislative or executive branches of government, they focused on challenges through the courts. They knew that Congress was dominated by Southern segregationists, while the Presidency could not afford to lose the Southern vote. The NAACP's first cases did not challenge the principle directly, but sought instead to establish factually that the state's segregated facilities in transportation, public education and parks, for instance, were not equal. These were typically underfunded, with outdated textbooks and facilities. Such cases helped lay the foundation for the ultimate reversal of the doctrine in \"Plessy v. Ferguson\".\n\nMarshall believed that the time had come to do away with \"separate but equal\". The NAACP issued a directive stating that their goal was now \"obtaining education on a nonsegregated basis and that no relief other than that will be acceptable.\" The first case that Marshall argued on this basis was \"Briggs v. Elliott\", but the NAACP also filed challenges to segregated education in other states. In Topeka, Kansas, the local NAACP branch determined that Oliver Brown would be a good candidate for filing a lawsuit; he was an assistant pastor and the father of three girls. The NAACP instructed him to apply to enroll his daughters at a local white school; after the expected rejection, \"Brown v. Board of Education\" was filed. Later, this and several other cases made their way to the Supreme Court, where they were consolidated under the title of \"Brown\". The decision to name the case after one originating in Kansas was apparently made \"so that the whole question would not smack of being a purely southern one.\"\n\nSome in the NAACP thought Marshall was moving too quickly. They feared that the Southern judge, Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson, who would almost certainly oppose overruling \"Plessy\", could destroy their case. One historian stated: \"There was a sense that if you do this and you lose, you're going to enshrine Plessy for a generation.\" A government lawyer involved in the case agreed that it was \"a mistake to push for the overruling of segregation per se so long as Vinson was chief justice—it was too early.\" In December 1952, the Supreme Court heard the case, but could not come to a decision. Unusually, they pushed the case back by a year, to allow the lawyers involved to research the intention of the framers who drafted the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment. In September 1953, Vinson died due to a heart attack. Justice Felix Frankfurter said: \"This is the first indication I have ever had that there is a God.\" Vinson was succeeded as chief justice by Earl Warren, who was known for his moderate views on civil rights.\n\nAfter the case was reheard in December, Warren set about persuading his colleagues to reach a unanimous decision overruling \"Plessy\". Five of the other eight judges were firmly on his side. He persuaded another two by saying that the decision would not touch greatly on the original question of \"Plessy\"'s legality, focusing instead on the principle of equality. Justice Stanley Reed was swayed after Warren suggested that a Southerner's lone dissent on this issue could be more dangerous and incendiary than the court's unanimous decision. In May 1954, Warren announced the Court's decision, which he wrote. It said that \"segregation of children in public schools solely on the basis of race\" was unconstitutional because it deprived \"the children of the minority group of equal educational opportunities\" and thus equal protection under the law.\n\nNumerous Southern leaders and their constituents strongly resisted the ruling; the Governor of Virginia, Thomas B. Stanley, insisted he would \"use every legal means at my command to continue segregated schools in Virginia,\" and some school districts closed down rather than integrate. One survey suggested that 13% of Florida policemen were willing to enforce the decision in \"Brown\".\n\nSome 19 Senators and 77 members of the House of Representatives, including the entire congressional delegations of the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina and Virginia, signed \"The Southern Manifesto\", all but two of the signatories were Southern Democrats: Republicans Joel Broyhill and Richard Poff of Virginia also promised to resist the decision by \"lawful means.\" By the fall of 1955, Cheryl Brown started first grade at an integrated school in Topeka—the first step on the long road to eventual equality for African Americans.\n\nOn December 28, 1951, T.R.M. Howard, an entrepreneur, surgeon, fraternal leader and planter in Mississippi, founded the Regional Council of Negro Leadership (RCNL) together with other key blacks in the state. At first the RCNL, which was based in the all-black town of Mound Bayou, did not directly challenge \"separate but equal\" policy, but worked to guarantee the \"equal.\" It often identified inadequate schools as the primary factor responsible for the black exodus to the North. It called for equal school terms for both races, as black schools were historically underfunded. From the beginning, the RCNL also pledged an \"all-out fight for unrestricted voting rights.\"\n\nThe RCNL's most famous member was Medgar Evers. Fresh from graduation at Alcorn State University in 1952, he moved to Mound Bayou to sell insurance for Howard. Evers soon became the RCNL's program director and helped to organize a boycott of service stations that failed to provide restrooms for blacks. As part of this campaign, the RCNL distributed an estimated 20,000 bumper stickers with the slogan \"Don't Buy Gas Where You Can't Use the Rest Room.\" Beginning in 1953, it directly challenged \"separate but equal\" and demanded integration of schools.\n\nThe RCNL's annual meetings in Mound Bayou between 1952 and 1955 attracted crowds of 10,000 or more. They featured speeches by Rep. William L. Dawson of Chicago, Rep. Charles Diggs of Michigan, Alderman Archibald Carey, Jr. of Chicago, and NAACP attorney Thurgood Marshall. Each of these events, in the words of Myrlie Evers, later Myrlie Evers-Williams, the wife of Medgar, constituted \"a huge all-day camp meeting: a combination of pep rally, old-time revival, and Sunday church picnic.\" The conferences also included panels and workshops on voting rights, business ownership, and other issues. Attendance was a life-transforming experience for many future civil black leaders who became prominent in the 1960s, such as Fannie Lou Hamer, Amzie Moore, Aaron Henry and George W. Lee.\n\nOn November 27, 1955, Rosa Parks attended one of these speeches at Dexter Avenue Church in Montgomery. The host for this event was a then relatively unknown Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. Parks later said that she was thinking of Till when she refused to give up her seat four days later.\n\nIts treatment of African Americans compromised the United States' role as a would-be world leader and champion of democracy. The world challenge from Communism – not to be confused with the actions of the U.S. Communist Party in support of ending discrimination – forced \ndemocracies of the West... to divest themselves of antiquated racial attitudes and practices in order to prevent further mergers of anti-imperialist revolutions and Communist revolutions. Incidents in the United States involving Negro discrimination...are given a much bigger play in the neutralist Asian press than they are in America itself. In addition, the victory over Nazis and Fascists in World War II did much to lay the groundwork for the civil rights movement.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29854384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29854384", "title": "Communication privacy management theory", "text": "Communication privacy management theory\n\nCommunication privacy management (CPM), originally known as communication boundary management, is a systematic research theory designed to develop an evidence-based understanding of the way people make decisions about revealing and concealing private information. CPM theory suggests that individuals maintain and coordinate privacy boundaries (the limits of what they are willing to share) with various communication partners depending on the perceived benefits and costs of information disclosure. It was first developed by Sandra Petronio in 1991.\n\nPetronio uses a boundary metaphor to explain the privacy management process. Privacy boundaries draw divisions between private information and public information. This theory argues that when people disclose private information, they depend on a rule-based management system to control the level of accessibility. An individual's privacy boundary governs his or her\nself-disclosures. Once a disclosure is made, the negotiation of privacy rules between the two parties is required. A\ndistressing sense of \"boundary turbulence\" can arise when\nclashing expectations for privacy management are identified. Having the mental image of protective boundaries is central to understanding the five core principles of Petronio's CPM:\n\n(1) People believe they own and have a right to control their private information. (2) People control their private information through the use of personal privacy rules. (3) When others are told or given access to a person's private information, they become co-owners of that information. (4) Co-owners of private information need to negotiate mutually agreeable privacy rules about telling others. (5) When co-owners of private information don't effectively negotiate and follow mutually held privacy rules, boundary turbulence is the likely result.\n\nPetronio's communication privacy management (CPM) theory is built on Altman's dialectical\nconception of privacy as a process of opening and closing a boundary to others. Altman and Taylor's social penetration theory focused on self-disclosure as the primary way to develop close relationships. However, openness is only part of the story. We also have a desire for privacy. When Petronio first developed this theory in 1991, it was called \"communication boundary management\". In 2002, she renamed it to \"communication privacy management\", underscoring private disclosure as the main thrust of the theory.\n\n\nThe content of concealing and revealing is private information. Petronio favored the term \"private information\" over the term \"self-disclosure\" because there are many caveats inherent to private information disclosure that are not present with self-disclosure. Firstly, the motivations behind sharing are many, including but not limited to: sharing a burden, righting a wrong, and influencing others. Since private information can be about yourself or others, the decision as to what is private and whom to share it with plays a part when taking the idea of boundaries into consideration. The decision to share is ultimately left up to the process of the privacy rule management system which combines rules for coordination of information, characteristics of disclosure, and attributes of the nature of boundaries.\n\nTo understand CPM theory it is important to follow the metaphor of the boundary. Private boundaries are the division between private information and public information. When private information is shared, there will be a collective boundary. When private information remains with an individual and is not disclosed, the boundary is called a personal boundary. An individual's private information is protected by their boundaries. The permeability of these boundaries are ever-changing. Boundaries can be relatively permeable (easy to cross) or relatively impregnable (rigid and difficult to cross).\nCommunication privacy management theory understands information (as well as boundaries) as something that is owned, and each owner must decide whether or not they are willing to have a confidant, i.e. a co-owner, to that information. In some cases, it is preferable for the owner to have another person share the private information, though this may not be the case for the confidant. Co-ownership of information is characterized by two things: heavy responsibility and a knowledge of the rules for a particular disclosure. However, ownership can be felt to different degrees, and the understanding of disclosure rules can be different from owner to owner. Also, the act of sharing is coupled along with the realization that boundaries have expanded and that they may never return to their original state. It is the responsibility of co-owners to decide and make clear if, when, and how information can or should be shared with others.\n\nAs the framework for understanding the decisions people make about private information, this system allows for management on the individual and collective levels through three processes: privacy rule characteristics, boundary coordination, and boundary turbulence.\n\nPetronio's understanding and argument of privacy management rests on the idea that a dialectic exists wherever the decision is made to disclose or conceal private information. Thus, costs and benefits must be weighed and consideration must be given to how such information will be owned, used, and spread. The definition of dialectic that Petronio borrows from can be found in Leslie Baxter and Barbara Montgomery's theory of relational dialectics, wherein various approaches to the contradictory impulses of relational life are discussed. The theory focuses on the idea that there are not only two contradictory stances within a relationship, but that at any given moment decisions are weighed using multiple viewpoints.\n\nPetronio views boundary management as a rule based process, not an individual decision. This rule-based management system allows for management on the individual and collective levels. This system depends on three privacy rule management to regulate the process of revealing and concealing private information: privacy rule characteristics, boundary coordination, and boundary turbulence.\n\nThe characteristics of privacy rules are divided into two sections, attributes and development. Privacy rule attributes refer to how people obtain rules of privacy and understand the properties of those rules. This is normally done through social interactions where the boundaries for rules are put to the test. Rules are set in different social situations which dictate the type of disclosure that should be made, for example, the difference between disclosure at a family member's birthday party versus an office event at work. Petronio asserts that each situation will come with its own set of rules for managing privacy that are learned over time. The development of privacy rule characteristics has to do with the criteria implemented to decide if and how information will be shared. Communication privacy management theory general lists those criteria as the following:\n\nWith these five criteria, personal and group privacy rules are developed, but disclosure of private information necessitates the inclusion of others within the boundary of knowledge, which demands an understanding between parties for how to coordinate ownership of knowledge.\n\nAn individual's private information is protected by the individual's boundaries. The permeability of these boundaries are ever-changing, and allow certain parts of the public access to certain pieces of information belonging to the individual. Once private information is shared, co-owners must coordinate the boundaries of privacy and disclosure based on boundary permeability, boundary linkage, and boundary ownership. Petronio describes this mutual boundary coordination by co-owners as drawing the same borders on a map around a shared piece of information. By no means is this an easy process considering that each owner will approach the information from distinct viewpoints and referencing their personal criteria for privacy rule development. \n\nOften, boundaries are not coordinated as well as they should be to maintain the level of privacy or exposure desired by owners – this leads to problems known as boundary turbulence. The coordination of shared boundaries is key to avoiding over-sharing. When the boundaries are unclear, owners may come into conflict with one another. Turbulence among co-owners is caused when rules are not mutually understood by co-owners and when the management of private information comes into conflict with the expectations each owner had, which can happen for a number of reasons.\n\nBoundary turbulence can be caused by mistakes, such as an uninvited party overhearing private information (causing weak boundary linkage) or a disclosure an owner might make under the influence of alcohol or other drugs. Disclosure to a new party was not the intent, but, when it happens, other co-owners can feel that their expectations of maintaining boundaries have been violated.\n\nIn addition, boundary turbulence occurs when a co-owner intentionally breaks the coordinated boundary of privacy to disclose private information. An example of such intentional disclosure would be a daughter revealing to a doctor that her father is indeed an active smoker when the father has told the doctor that he no longer smokes after his heart surgery. The daughter in this case must weigh the risks of breaking the family privacy boundary against the benefits of the doctor being better informed of her father's condition.\n\nLastly, boundary turbulence can also occur when there have not been pre-existing rules for a situation. For example, with the emergence of social media and, in particular, Facebook, boundary rules had not been established. As parents began to join Facebook and \"friend\" their children, the children felt turbulence. There was a perception of privacy invasion between the parent-child relationship.\n\nIn cases of boundary turbulence, co-owners of information can feel that their expectations have been violated and lose trust in other co-owners. In these cases, the goal of each party is to reduce turbulence by reestablishing and coordinating boundaries. It should be noted, however, that turbulence doesn't always have a negative outcome, there has been studies which show that turbulence within relationships can lead to stronger and improved relationships.\n\nCommunication privacy management can be applied across different contexts, primarily include: (1) family communication, with a particular focus on parental privacy invasions, (2) online social media, (3) health, and (4) relational issues, and (5) work environments.\n\nSpecific applications of CPM highlight family privacy management. Research focused on secrets and topic avoidance, such as questions of concealment to stepfamily members feeling caught, and parents-adolescent conversations about sex. Family privacy research over the decades are also inspired specifically by the chapter of parental privacy invasion. For example, work by Hawk and his colleagues explore perceived parental invasions from the view of adolescents in reaction to such issues as control attempts, solicitation of information, and conflict outcomes. Another way that family communication uses CPM is with child bearing or the lack thereof; whom childless-couples choose to disclose to that they voluntarily do not want children is another way CPM has been explored.\n\nPregnancy loss due to miscarriage could be a unique CPM case in the family setting as couples often manage this information jointly as they decide whether to share the miscarriage with people outside the dyad. The research found that couples frame miscarriage as a shared but distinct experience and that both members exert rights of ownership over the information. Couples' privacy rules centered on issues of social support and others' need to know about the loss. Even though couples described their privacy rules as implicitly understood, they also recalled having explicit conversations to develop rules. We discuss how the management of co-owned information can improve communication and maintain relationships.\n\nRecent researchers apply CPM to investigate privacy management for online blogging, Facebook usage and online dating. Further, there have been investigations into parental behavior that is enacted through online social media; specifically when parents 'friend' their children and the management of privacy that ensues from that. Privacy practices in social network sites often appear paradoxical, as content-sharing behavior stands in conflict with the need to reduce disclosure-related harms. Some study explore privacy in social network sites as a contextual information practice, managed by a process of boundary regulation.\n\nSimilar research has been done on the perceptions of teachers' disclosures on Facebook and their impact on credibility. The relevance and valence of disclosures were compared between disclosures made in the classroom and those made on Facebook and were found to be significantly different. Students' perceptions of teacher credibility were shown to decrease as relevance of disclosures increased and as negativity increased.\n\nAnother popular SNS Twitter was examined as well. In the research, Twitter was regarded as an onion with multiple privacy layers. The research found out that there were significant differences at the descriptive and inferential levels among the multiple dimensions of private information, including daily lives, social identity, competence, socio-economic status, and health. Private information regarding daily lives and entertainment was disclosed easily and located at the outermost layer of the disclosure onion. In contrast, health-related private information was concealed and located within the innermost layer of the disclosure onion. What's more, there were significant differences among current Twitter users, nonusers, and dropouts with regard to personality traits and privacy concerns about Twitter.\n\nYoung people especially highschool and college students are an important part of SNS users. A recent study examined college students' privacy concerns and impacts on their Twitter usage behaviors. Regression analyses concluded that Control and Boundary Rules of Private Information on Twitter significantly predict daily minutes spent on Twitter accounts. However, the same CPM variables did not predict college students' other Twitter usage behaviors (e.g., weekly inquiries and total months of using Twitter). This shows the intricate connection between students' privacy concern and their usage behavior.\n\nInformed by principles of CPM, health communication research using CPM to explore health privacy issues has become a growth area. Earlier study investigated physician disclosure of medical mistakes. Recently there have been a number of studies focused on ways that privacy issues influence patient care, confidentiality and control over ownership, choices about disclosure, for instance, with stigmatized health-related illness such as HIV/AIDS, about e-health information, and the digitization of healthcare.\n\nOne recent study about how overweight and obese individuals handle their personal history after they become a normal weight. The result shows that the vast majority of participants perceived more benefits from disclosing their larger identity than risks, regardless of weight-loss method.\n\nUsing CPM, \"Celebrity Health Narratives & the Public Health\" offers the \"first extensive look at celebrity health sagas, this book examines the ways in which their stories become our stories, influencing public perception and framing dialog about wellness, disease and death. These private-yet-public narratives drive fund-raising, reduce stigma and influence policy. Celebrities such as Mary Tyler Moore, Robin Roberts, Michael J. Fox, and Christopher Reeve—as well as 200 others included in the study—have left a lasting legacy.\"\n\nMany studies emphasize the use of CPM in relationships because of the concepts of disclosure and boundaries. Not only romantic relationships, but also friendships are a factor when thinking of CPM. Briefly, work on conflict and topic avoidance, considering the relational impact of privacy turbulence, students and faculty relationships, and workplace relationships have all produced useful information that opens new doors regarding CPM-based research.\n\nThe mobile phone and its impact on romantic relationships is a good example. After investigating mobile phone usage rules that are negotiated by adolescents and young adults in romantic relationships, findings are that the negotiation of rules is a crucial part of young adult relationships while enhancing trust and fostering harmony were important factors in the rule development process.\n\nCPM also appears in the friendship. The study intended to addresses the issue of whether personal traits and predispositions can predict the tendencies to either reveal or conceal secrets shared in confidence by a best friend suggested that a combination of several traits could successfully distinguish those who revealed secrets from those who did not. Significant discriminators included tendency to gossip and depth of disclosure. Implications of the study and suggestions for future research are discussed.\n\nAlthough privacy violations can be uncomfortable and disruptive, they have the potential for positive outcomes in relationships if addressed. Using CPM theory as a framework, a study surveyed a community sample of 273 adults to examine their retrospective accounts of privacy violations in personal relationships. Results showed that less than half of the sample offered explicit rules for information management, and the majority of participants blamed the confidant for the privacy turbulence. Findings indicated that people often do not share similar information with the violator in the future, but if they do, less than half offer explicit privacy rules during the privacy recalibration process. Confrontation efficacy was positively associated with initiating a conversation about the privacy turbulence and that people who engaged in privacy recalibration were more likely to report forgiveness and relational improvement and less likely to report relational damage than those individuals who did not.\n\nCPM has become very applicable in the workplace as personal mobile devices have increasingly been allowed to be brought to work. The concept of Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) has stirred conversation on the concept of privacy, security and boundaries between employee and employer. Companies have had to take measures to further secure their network or even decide whether they want to have employee access personal accounts (i.e. email) or devices while on the job. By the same token, some employees argue that companies should not be able to track what is being done on their personal devices or even on company computers even if they are in the work place.\nEven before stepping foot into the workplace, much can be said about CPM and interviewing. How much we decide to reveal within an interview and the boundaries we have in that situation is directly related to CPM. Even interviewing within a job (as a cop, for example) requires a certain sensitivity to people's boundaries and how much private information they are willing to reveal.\n\nSeveral studies tested CPM within intercultural contexts. For instance, a study that examined intercultural privacy management between foreign English teachers and Japanese co-workers uncovered cultural premises. This \"study highlights four cultural premises that garner intercultural privacy management between foreign English language teachers (ELTs) and Japanese coworkers (JCWs) in Japan. The analysis revealed that ELTs: (a) expected not to be a \"free space\" for privacy inquisition by JCWs, and (b) expected voluntary reciprocity in (egalitarian) workplace relationships. JCWs viewed: (a) privacy inquisitions as acts of kindness/caring and (b) soliciting help from a supervisor as providing opportunities for better care. This study calls for attention to intercultural privacy management and enhances CPM's cultural criteria.\" Within the same context, foreign English teachers \"employed the following management strategies: (a) withdrawal, (b) cognitive restructuring, (c) independent control, (d) lying, (e) omission, (f) avoidance, and (g) gaijin smashing. Japanese co-workers defined privacy as information that should be hidden and managed such information by: (a) drawing clear boundaries by not talking or changing contexts, and (b) being pre-emptive by demarcating privacy boundaries early on within a relationship.\"\n\nThere are a few communication theories that are worth noting after understanding CPM in more depth.\n\nExpectancy violations theory discusses the importance of personal space, territoriality and the expectations individuals have of another's non verbal communication. Though dealing with physical proximity, we can see the relation between expectancy violations theory and CPM as it pertains to privacy and how close we allow another to come to us. Both physical and intimate proximity requires boundaries to be crossed or permeated.\n\nSocial penetration theory explains how two individuals grow in intimacy and move from one level to the next in their relationships. The popular idea behind social penetration is that individual are like onions; they have layers and as you go deeper, the more intimate you become. For this intimacy to occur, we can safely say that private information needs to be shared and exchanged. As one does this, boundaries are permeated and become co-owned.\n\nFinally, coordinated management of meaning explains how people establish rules for both creating and interpreting meaning. Similar to CPM, coordinated management of meaning has stages were coordination is achieved, not achieved, or partially achieved. Similarly you can have boundary ownership, boundary turbulence or boundary linkage. Moreover, in order to achieve meaning there needs to be an exchange of information between individuals to decipher. This exchange of private information falls directly into CPM.\n\nCommunication privacy management theory utilizes a socio-cultural communication tradition within an interpersonal context, and employs both a positivistic and interpretive approach to knowing.\n\nAltman speaks to the values of this theory as it advances our thinking by incorporating different \"levels\" or combinations of participants in communication processes (Altman 2002). Whereas earlier research and theorizing on privacy-disclosure focused on dyads or individuals, a most complicated set of dynamics has been carefully enunciated by Petronio. Petronio also describes communication within families and between family members and outsiders, within and outside work and social groups, and between many combinations of individuals, dyads, and others within and across social boundaries. In addition, her analysis of privacy-disclosure \"turbulence\", or breaches of desired communication patterns, is articulate and systematic.\n\nSome researchers have questioned whether CPM theory truly is dialectical in nature. It has argued that CPM takes a dualistic approach, treating privacy and disclosure as independent of one another and able to coexist in tandem rather than in the dynamic interplay characteristic of dialectics. This accusation of dualistic thinking might result from the theory's use of the terms \"balance\" and \"equilibrium\" in the early versions of CPM theory. Petronio argues that CPM is not focused on balance in the psychological sense. \"Instead, [CPM] argues for coordination with others that does not advocate an optimum balance between disclosure and privacy. As an alternative, the theory claims there are shifting forces with a range of privacy and disclosure that people handle by making judgments about the \"degrees\" [emphasis in original] of privacy and publicness they wish to experience in any given interaction\" (pp. 12–13). Thus, Petronio argues that it is legitimate to call CPM theory dialectical in nature.\n\n"}
{"id": "41273483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41273483", "title": "Cortex Plus", "text": "Cortex Plus\n\nThe Cortex Plus System is a toolkit RPG system that evolved from Margaret Weis Productions, Ltd's Cortex System. It has been used for four published games and one published preview to date, and the design principles are in the Cortex Plus Hacker's Guide, a book of advice in how to create new games using Cortex Plus, and list of new games produced via kickstarter. According to the Hacker's Guide there are three basic 'flavors' of Cortex Plus; Action, Drama, and Heroic.\n\nOf the four games published using this system, was nominated for the 2011 Origins Award for best Role Playing Game, and Marvel Heroic Roleplaying won the 2013 award and the award for best support as well as the 2012 ENnie Award for Best Rules and runner up for Best Game.\n\nNote that despite the similarity in name, \"Cortex Plus\" is not the Cortex System, also produced by Margaret Weis Productions.\n\nUnlike the Cortex System, Cortex Plus is a roll and keep system in which you roll one die from each category and keep the two highest dice in your dice pool. What goes into your dice pool is whatever is considered important for the game you are playing - but different stories have different things they consider important so the implementation of the system has been different for each game so far. All versions of Cortex Plus use standard polyhedral dice and the normal dice notation ranging from d4 (a 4 sided tetrahedral die) to d12 (a 12-sided dodecahedral die), and narratively notable features are given dice from this list, with d6 being the default.\n\nIn all cases Cortex Plus uses dice pools ranging from d4 (terrible) to d12 (the best possible), and every die in your pool that rolls a natural 1 (called an 'Opportunity') doesn't count toward your total and causes some form of negative consequence which, depending on the game, either creates a complication for the characters to overcome or adds to the Doom Pool that provides the Game Master resources within the scene. Adding a d4 to your dice pool is considered a penalty because it isn't likely to roll one of your best two die results and there's such a high chance of rolling a 1.\n\nMost versions of Cortex Plus (other than Smallville) give the character a set of three distinctions that they can choose to add to their dice pool either as a d8 to assist them, or as a d4 to hinder them - but they gain a plot point by using the d4 option.\n\nEquipment is normally handled by enabling the character to do things (you can't shoot someone without a gun) but where it is especially notable it is given a dice rating and added to the dice pool as an asset. And things that get in the way are treated similarly, and added to the dice pool as complications.\n\nCortex Plus also uses Plot Points - the normal uses of which are to establish something as notable (turning it into an asset), power a stunt or ability, to add a die to your roll, or to keep an additional die after you have rolled.\n\nCortex Plus Action is used in both the Leverage and Firefly Role-Playing Games, and is the most traditional of the three. The important factors are an \"attribute\" (Leverage uses the six from the Cortex System, Firefly uses Physical/Mental/Social), a \"Skill\" (Leverage uses Grifter, Hacker, Hitter, Mastermind, and Thief which are based on the TV show. Firefly has a list of 22). Also in the dice pool can be a distinction, an asset, and a complication affecting the opposition.\n\nLeverage, as a Heist or Con game allows characters to spend a plot point to establish Flashback scenes to explain what is really going on and why things are not as bad as they appear.\n\nCortex Plus Drama is used in the Smallville Roleplaying Game, which was the first Cortex Plus game. It has the most complicated character generation; the players start by drawing a relationship map that step by step ties the player characters to each other and the gameworld. Instead of attributes and skills, the important factors are considered Relationships with other characters and Values (Duty, Glory, Justice, Love, Power, Truth in Smallville) and each relationship and values having a statement attached and you can use the dice when acting in line with the statement. A character can also challenge a value statement and possibly reject it, allowing them to use it three times in the dice pool on that roll - but using a smaller die for the rest of the session every time they want to invoke that value or relationship.\n\nWhen a character loses a contest and doesn't give in Smallville they take stress (Insecure, Afraid, Angry, Exhausted, and Injured) which can be used against them - or they can use at the cost of increasing the amount of stress they've taken, and being unable to act beyond d12 stress.\n\nCortex Plus Heroic was written for Marvel Heroic Roleplaying and has the largest dice pools. In addition to distinctions, assets, complications, and stress (as used in Drama - with stress being Physical, Mental, and Emotional in Marvel Heroic), Cortex Plus Heroic characters have an Affiliation (Solo, Buddy, Team), at least one powerset and possibly more, and some Specialities (which represent a mix of skills, resources, and contacts). The powersets are further detailed with Sfx and Limits so they more closely represent the vision of the character, and character creation is largely freeform. Unlike other Cortex Plus games, the default is to keep three dice with the third die representing the effect size and not being added to the total, only the size of this die mattering. This third die is known as the Effect Die. Marvel Heroic Roleplaying commonly uses large dice pools with seven separate categories (and potentially more than one power set). The dice in Marvel Heroic are:\n\nFrom the character:\n\nThere are also three potential dice from the situation:\n\nExtra dice may be included through Plot Points, and characters seldom use all those dice.\n\n\nReception to Cortex Plus games has been good, with Marvel Heroic Roleplaying winning best rules at the 2012 ENnie Awards. A common theme in reviews is that there are no procedural elements, and you are instead rolling based on what you consider relevant to the situation and the way that 1s add narrative complications to the results that would not normally be expected in other role-playing games. Another theme picked up on in the system is the way that it allows balance between characters such as Wolverine and Captain America while having enough meat to distinguish them.\n"}
{"id": "8681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8681", "title": "Data compression ratio", "text": "Data compression ratio\n\nData compression ratio, also known as compression power, is a computer science term used to quantify the reduction in data-representation size produced by a data compression algorithm. The data compression ratio is analogous to the physical compression ratio used to measure substances.\n\nData compression ratio is defined as the ratio between the \"uncompressed size\" and \"compressed size\":\n\nThus a representation that compresses a 10 MB file to 2 MB has a compression ratio of 10/2 = 5, often notated as an explicit ratio, 5:1 (read \"five\" to \"one\"), or as an implicit ratio, 5/1. Note that this formulation applies equally for compression, where the uncompressed size is that of the original; and for decompression, where the uncompressed size is that of the reproduction. \n\nSometimes the space savings is given instead, which is defined as the reduction in size relative to the uncompressed size: \n\nThus a representation that compresses a 10MB file to 2MB would yield a space savings of 1 - 2/10 = 0.8, often notated as a percentage, 80%.\n\nFor signals of indefinite size, such as streaming audio and video, the compression ratio is defined in terms of uncompressed and compressed data rates instead of data sizes: \n\nand instead of space savings, one speaks of data-rate savings, which is defined as the data-rate reduction relative to the uncompressed data rate: \n\nFor example, uncompressed songs in CD format have a data rate of 16 bits/channel x 2 channels x 44.1 kHz ≅ 1.4 Mbit/s, whereas AAC files on an iPod are typically compressed to 128 kbit/s, yielding a compression ratio of 10.9, for a data-rate savings of 0.91, or 91%. \n\nWhen the uncompressed data rate is known, the compression ratio can be inferred from the compressed data rate.\n\nLossless compression of digitized data such as video, digitized film, and audio preserves all the information, but it does not generally achieve compression ratio much better than 2:1 because of the intrinsic entropy of the data. Compression algorithms which provide higher ratios either incur very large overheads or work only for specific data sequences (e.g. compressing a file with mostly zeros). In contrast, lossy compression (e.g. JPEG for images, or MP3 and Opus for audio) can achieve much higher compression ratios at the cost of a decrease in quality, such as Bluetooth audio streaming, as visual or audio compression artifacts from loss of important information are introduced. A compression ratio of at least 50:1 is needed to get 1080i video into a 20 Mbit/s MPEG transport stream.\n\nThe data compression ratio can serve as a measure of the complexity of a data set or signal, in particular it is used to approximate the algorithmic complexity. It is also used to see how much of a file is able to compressed without increasing its original size.\n\n"}
{"id": "15542466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15542466", "title": "Display contrast", "text": "Display contrast\n\nContrast in visual perception is the difference in appearance of two or more parts of a field seen simultaneously or successively (hence: brightness contrast, lightness contrast, color contrast, simultaneous contrast, successive contrast, etc.). \n\nContrast in physics is a quantity intended to correlate with the perceived brightness contrast, usually defined by one of a number of formulae (see below) which involve e.g. the luminances of the stimuli considered, for example: ΔL/L near the luminance threshold (known as Weber contrast), or L/L for much higher luminances.\n\nA contrast can also be due to differences of chromaticity specified by colorimetric characteristics (e.g. the color difference ΔE CIE 1976 UCS).\n\nVisual information is always contained in some kind of visual contrast, thus contrast is an essential performance feature of electronic visual displays.\n\nThe contrast of electronic visual displays depends on the electrical driving (analog or digital input signal), on the ambient illumination and on the direction of observation (i.e. viewing direction). \n\nThe \"luminance contrast\" is the ratio between the higher luminance, L, and the lower luminance, L, that define the feature to be detected. This ratio, often called contrast ratio, CR, (actually being a luminance ratio), is often used for high luminances and for specification of the contrast of electronic visual display devices. The luminance contrast (ratio), CR, is a dimensionless number, often indicated by adding \":1\" to the value of the quotient (e.g. CR = 900:1).\n\nformula_1 with 1 ≤ CR ≤ formula_2\n\nA \"contrast ratio\" of CR = 1 means no contrast.\n\nThe contrast can also be specified by the contrast modulation (or Michelson contrast), C, defined as:\n\nformula_3 with 0 ≤ C ≤ 1.\n\nC = 0 means no contrast.\n\nAnother contrast definition sometimes found in the electronic displays field, K, is:\n\nformula_4 with 0 ≤ K ≤ 1.\n\nK = 0 means no contrast, the maximum possible contrast, K equals one.\n\nTwo parts of a visual field can be of equal luminance, but their color (chromaticity) is different. Such a \"color contrast\" can be described by a distance in a suitable chromaticity system (e.g. CIE 1976 UCS, CIELAB, CIELUV). \n\nA metric for \"color contrast\" often used in the electronic displays field is the color difference ΔE*uv or ΔE*ab.\n\nDuring measurement of the luminance values used for evaluation of the contrast, the active area of the display screen is often completely set to one of the optical states for which the contrast is to be determined, e.g. completely white (R=G=B=100%) and completely black (R=G=B=0%) and the luminance is measured one after the other (time sequential).\n\nThis way of proceeding is suitable only when the display device does not exhibit \"loading effects\", which means that the luminance of the test pattern is varying with the size of the test pattern. Such loading effects can be found in CRT-displays and in PDPs. A small test pattern (e.g. 4% window pattern) displayed on these devices can have significantly higher luminance than the corresponding full-screen pattern because the supply current may be limited by special electronic circuits.\n\nAny two test patterns that are not completely identical can be used to evaluate a contrast between them. When one test pattern comprises the completely bright state (full-white, R=G=B=100%) and the other one the completely dark state (full-black, R=G=B=0%) the resulting contrast is called \"full-swing contrast\". This contrast is the highest (maximum) contrast the display can achieve. If no test pattern is specified in a data sheet together with a contrast statement, it will most probably refer to the \"full-swing contrast\".\n\nThe standard procedure for contrast evaluation is as follows:\n\n1 apply the first test pattern to the electrical interface of the display under test and wait until the optical response has settled to a stable steady state,\n\n2 measure the luminance and/or the chromaticity of the first test pattern and record the result,\n\n3 apply the second test pattern to the electrical interface of the display under test and wait until the optical response has settled to a stable steady state,\n\n4 measure the luminance and/or the chromaticity of the second test pattern and record the result,\n\n5 calculate the resulting \"static contrast\" for the two test patterns using one of the metrics listed above (CR,C or K).\n\nWhen luminance and/or chromaticity are measured before the optical response has settled to a stable steady state, some kind of \"transient contrast\" has been measured instead of the \"static contrast\".\n\nWhen the image content is changing rapidly, e.g. during the display of video or movie content, the optical state of the display may not reach the intended stable steady state because of slow response and thus the apparent contrast is reduced if compared to the static contrast.\n\nThis is a technique for expanding the contrast of LCD-screens.\nLCD-screens comprise a backlight unit which is permanently emitting light and an LCD-panel in front of it which modulates transmission of light with respect to intensity and chromaticity. In order to increase the contrast of such LCD-screens the backlight can be (globally) dimmed when the image to be displayed is dark (i.e. not comprising high intensity image data) while the image data is numerically corrected and adapted to the reduced backlight intensity. In such a way the dark regions in dark images can be improved and the contrast between subsequent frames can be substantially increased. Also the contrast within one frame can be expanded intentionally depending on the histogram of the image (some sporadic highlights in an image may be cut or suppressed). There is quite some digital signal processing required for implementation of the \"dynamic contrast control technique\" in a way that is pleasing to the human visual system (e.g. no flicker effects must be induced). \n\nThe contrast within individual frames (\"simultaneous contrast\") can be increased when the backlight can be locally dimmed. This can be achieved with backlight units that are realized with arrays of LEDs. High-dynamic-range (HDR) LCDs are using that technique in order to realize (static) contrast values in the range of CR > 100.000.\n\nIn order to measure the highest contrast possible, the dark state of the display under test must not be corrupted by light from the surroundings, since even small increments ΔL in the denominator of the ratio (L + ΔL) / (L + ΔL) effect a considerable reduction of that quotient. This is the reason why most contrast ratios used for advertising purposes are measured under dark-room conditions (illuminance E ≤ 1 lx).\n\nAll emissive electronic displays (e.g. CRTs, PDPs) theoretically do not emit light in the black state (R=G=B=0%) and thus, under darkroom conditions with no ambient light reflected from the display surface into the light measuring device, the luminance of the black state is zero and thus the contrast becomes infinity.\n\nWhen these display-screens are used outside a completely dark room, e.g. in the living room (illuminance approx. 100 lx) or in an office situation (illuminance 300 lx minimum), ambient light is reflected from the display surface, adding to the luminance of the dark state and thus reducing the contrast considerably.\n\nA quite novel TV-screen realized with OLED technology is specified with a \"dark-room contrast\" ratio CR = 1.000.000 (one million). In a realistic application situation with 100 lx illuminance the contrast ratio goes down to ~350, with 300 lx it is reduced to ~120.\n\nThe contrast that can be experienced or measured in the presence of ambient illumination is shortly called \"ambient contrast\". A special kind of \"ambient contrast\" is the contrast under outdoor illumination conditions when the illuminance can be very intense (up to 100.000 lx). The contrast apparent under such conditions is called \"daylight contrast\".\n\nSince always the dark areas of a display are corrupted by reflected light, reasonable \"ambient contrast\" values can only be maintained when the display is provided with efficient measures to reduce reflections by anti reflection and/or anti-glare coatings.\n\nWhen a test pattern is displayed that contains areas with different luminance and/or chromaticity (e.g. a checkerboard pattern), and an observer sees the different areas simultaneously, the apparent contrast is called \"concurrent contrast\" (the term \"simultaneous contrast\" is already taken for a different effect). Contrast values obtained from two subsequently displayed full-screen patterns may be different from the values evaluated from a checkerboard pattern with the same optical states. That discrepancy may be due to non-ideal properties of the display-screen (e.g. crosstalk, halation, etc.) and/or due to straylight problems in the light measuring device.\n\nWhen a contrast is established between two optical states that are perceived or measured one after the other, this contrast is called \"successive contrast\". The contrast between two full-screen patterns (full-screen contrast) always is a \"successive contrast\".\n\n\nDepending on the nature of the display under test (direct-view or projection) the contrast is evaluated as a quotient of luminance values (direct-view) or as a quotient of illuminance values (projection displays) if the properties of the projection screen is separated from that of the projector. In the latter case, a checkerboard pattern with full-white and full-black rectangles is projected and the illuminance is measured at the center of the rectangles. The standard ANSI IT7.215-1992 defines test-patterns and measurement locations, and a way to obtain the luminous flux from illuminance measurements, it does not define however a quantity named \"ANSI lumen\".\n\nIf the reflective properties of the projection screen (usually depending on direction) are included in the measurement, the luminance reflected from the centers of the rectangles has to be measured for a (set of) specific directions of observation.\n\nLuminance, contrast and chromaticity of LCD-screens is usually varying with the direction of observation (i.e. viewing direction). The variation of electro-optical characteristics with viewing direction can be measured sequentially by mechanical scanning of the viewing cone (\"gonioscopic\" approach) or by simultaneous measurements based on conoscopy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "152902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152902", "title": "Dormant Commerce Clause", "text": "Dormant Commerce Clause\n\nThe Dormant Commerce Clause, or Negative Commerce Clause, in American constitutional law, is a legal doctrine that courts in the United States have inferred from the Commerce Clause in Article I of the US Constitution. The Dormant Commerce Clause is used to prohibit state legislation that discriminates against interstate or international commerce.\n\nFor example, it is lawful for Michigan to require food labels that specifically identify certain animal parts, if they are present in the product, because the state law applies to food produced in Michigan as well as food imported from other states and foreign countries; the state law would violate the Commerce Clause if it applied only to imported food or if it was otherwise found to favor domestic over imported products. Likewise, California law requires milk sold to contain a certain percentage of milk solids that federal law does not require, which is allowed under the Dormant Commerce Clause doctrine because California's stricter requirements apply equally to California-produced milk and imported milk and so does not discriminate against or inappropriately burden interstate commerce.\n\nThe idea that regulation of interstate commerce may to some extent be an exclusive Federal power was discussed even before adoption of the Constitution, but the framers did not use the word \"dormant\". On September 15, 1787, the Framers of the Constitution debated in Philadelphia whether to guarantee states the ability to lay duties of tonnage without Congressional interference so that the states could finance the clearing of harbors and the building of lighthouses. James Madison believed that the mere existence of the Commerce Clause would bar states from imposing any duty of tonnage: \"He was more and more convinced that the regulation of Commerce was in its nature indivisible and ought to be wholly under one authority.\"\n\nRoger Sherman disagreed: \"The power of the United States to regulate trade being supreme can control interferences of the State regulations when such interferences happen; so that there is no danger to be apprehended from a concurrent jurisdiction.\" Sherman saw the commerce power as similar to the tax power, the latter being one of the concurrent powers shared by the federal and state governments. Ultimately, the Philadelphia Convention decided upon the present language about duties of tonnage in , which says: \"No state shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage ...\"\n\nThe word \"dormant,\" in connection with the Commerce Clause, originated in dicta of Chief Justice John Marshall. For example, in the case of \"Gibbons v. Ogden\", , he wrote that the power to regulate interstate commerce \"can never be exercised by the people themselves, but must be placed in the hands of agents, or lie dormant.\" Concurring Justice William Johnson was even more emphatic that the Constitution is \"altogether in favor of the exclusive grants to Congress of power over commerce.\"\n\nLater, in the case of \"Willson v. Black-Bird Creek Marsh Co.\", , Marshall wrote: \"We do not think that the [state] act empowering the Black Bird Creek Marsh Company to place a dam across the creek, can, under all the circumstances of the case, be considered as repugnant to the power to regulate commerce in its dormant state, or as being in conflict with any law passed on the subject.\"\n\nIf Marshall was suggesting that the power over interstate commerce is an exclusive federal power, the Dormant Commerce Clause doctrine eventually developed very differently: it treats regulation that does not discriminate against or unduly burden interstate commerce as a concurrent power, rather than an exclusive federal power, and it treats regulation that does so as an exclusive federal power. Thus, the modern doctrine says that congressional power over interstate commerce is somewhat exclusive but \"not absolutely exclusive\". The approach began in the 1851 case of \"Cooley v. Board of Wardens\", in which Justice Benjamin R. Curtis wrote for the Court: \"Either absolutely to affirm, or deny that the nature of this [commerce] power requires exclusive legislation by Congress, is to lose sight of the nature of the subjects of this power, and to assert concerning all of them, what is really applicable but to a part.\" The first clear holding of the Supreme Court striking down a state law under the Dormant Commerce Clause came in 1873.\n\nJustice Anthony Kennedy has written that: \"The central rationale for the rule against discrimination is to prohibit state or municipal laws whose object is local economic protectionism, laws that would excite those jealousies and retaliatory measures the Constitution was designed to prevent.\" In order to determine whether a law violates a so-called \"dormant\" aspect of the Commerce Clause, the court first asks whether it discriminates on its face against interstate commerce. In this context, \"discrimination\" simply means differential treatment of in-state and out-of-state economic interests that benefits the former and burdens the latter.\n\nThus, in a dormant Commerce Clause case, a court is initially concerned with whether the law facially discriminates against out-of-state actors or has the effect of favoring in-state economic interests over out-of-state interests. Discriminatory laws motivated by \"simple economic protectionism\" are subject to a \"virtually per se rule of invalidity\", \"City of Philadelphia v. New Jersey\" 437 U.S. 617 (1978), \"Dean Milk Co. v. City of Madison, Wisconsin\", 340 U.S. 349 (1951), \"Hunt v. Washington State Apple Advertising Comm.\", 432 U.S. 333 (1977) which can only be overcome by a showing that the State has no other means to advance a legitimate local purpose, \"Maine v. Taylor\", 477 U.S. 131(1986). See also \"Brown-Forman Distillers v. New York State Liquor Authority\", .\n\nOn the other hand, when a law is \"directed to legitimate local concerns, with effects upon interstate commerce that are only incidental\" (United Haulers Association, Inc.), that is, where other legislative objectives are credibly advanced and there is no patent discrimination against interstate trade, the Court has adopted a much more flexible approach, the general contours of which were outlined in \"Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc.\", 397 U.S. 137, 142 (1970) and \"City of Philadelphia v. New Jersey\", 437 U.S. at 624. If the law is not outright or intentionally discriminatory or protectionist, but still has some impact on interstate commerce, the court will evaluate the law using a balancing test. The Court determines whether the interstate burden imposed by a law outweighs the local benefits. If such is the case, the law is usually deemed unconstitutional. See \"Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc.\", . In the Pike case, the Court explained that a state regulation having only \"incidental\" effects on interstate commerce \"will be upheld unless the burden imposed on such commerce is clearly excessive in relation to the putative local benefits\". 397 U.S. at 142, 90 S.Ct. at 847. When weighing burdens against benefits, a court should consider both \"the nature of the local interest involved, and ... whether it could be promoted as well with a lesser impact on interstate activities\". Id. Thus regulation designed to implement public health and safety, or serve other legitimate state interests, but impact interstate commerce as an incident to that purpose, are subject to a test akin to the rational basis test, a minimum level of scrutiny. See \"Bibb v. Navajo Freight Lines, Inc.\" In USA Recycling, Inc. v. Town of Babylon, 66 F.3d 1272, 1281 (C.A.2 (N.Y.), 1995), the court explained:\n\nIf the state activity constitutes \"regulation\" of interstate commerce, then the court must proceed to a second inquiry: whether the activity regulates evenhandedly with only \"incidental\" effects on interstate commerce, or discriminates against interstate commerce. As we use the term here, \"discrimination\" simply means differential treatment of in-state and out-of-state economic interests that benefits the former and burdens the latter. The party challenging the validity of a state statute or municipal ordinance bears the burden of showing that it discriminates against, or places some burden on, interstate commerce. \"Hughes v. Oklahoma\", 441 U.S. 322, 336, 99 S.Ct. 1727, 1736, 60 L.Ed.2d 250 (1979). If discrimination is established, the burden shifts to the state or local government to show that the local benefits of the statute outweigh its discriminatory effects, and that the state or municipality lacked a nondiscriminatory alternative that could have adequately protected the relevant local interests. If the challenging party cannot show that the statute is discriminatory, then it must demonstrate that the statute places a burden on interstate commerce that \"is clearly excessive in relation to the putative local benefits.\" \"Minnesota v. Clover Leaf Creamery Co.\", 449 U.S. 456, 471(1981) (quoting Pike, 397 U.S. at 142, 90 S.Ct. at 847).\n\nOver the years, the Supreme Court has consistently held that the language of the Commerce Clause contains a further, negative command prohibiting certain state taxation even when Congress has failed to legislate on the subject. Examples of such cases are \"Quill Corp. v. North Dakota\", 504 U.S. 298 (1992); \"Northwestern States Portland Cement Co. v. Minnesota\", 358 U.S. 450, 458 (1959) and \"H.P. Hood & Sons, Inc. v. Du Mond\", 336 U.S. 525 (1949).\n\nMore recently, in the 2015 case of \"Comptroller of Treasury of MD. v. Wynne\", the Court addressed Maryland's unusual practice of taxing personal income earned in Maryland, and taxing personal income of its citizens earned outside Maryland, \"without\" any tax credit for income tax paid to other states. The Court held this sort of double-taxation to be a violation of the dormant Commerce Clause. The Court faulted Justice Antonin Scalia's criticism of the dormant Commerce Clause doctrine by saying that he failed to \"explain why, under his interpretation of the Constitution, the Import-Export Clause \nwould not lead to the same result that we reach under the dormant Commerce Clause\".\n\nApplication of the dormant commerce clause to state taxation is another manifestation of the Court's holdings that the Commerce Clause prevents a State from retreating into economic isolation or jeopardizing the welfare of the Nation as a whole, as it would do if it were free to place burdens on the flow of commerce across its borders that commerce wholly within those borders would not bear. The Court's taxation decisions thus \"reflected a central concern of the Framers that was an immediate reason for calling the Constitutional Convention: the conviction that in order to succeed, the new Union would have to avoid the tendencies toward economic Balkanization that had plagued relations among the Colonies and later among the States under the Articles of Confederation.\" \"Wardair Canada, Inc. v. Florida Dept. of Revenue\", 477 U.S. 1 (1986); \"Hughes v. Oklahoma\", 441 U.S. 322 (1979); \"Oklahoma Tax Commission v. Jefferson Lines, Inc.\", 514 U.S. 175 (1995).\n\nAs with the Court's application of the dormant commerce clause to discriminatory regulation, the pre-New Deal Court attempted to apply a formalistic approach to state taxation alleged to interfere with interstate commerce. The history is described in \"Oklahoma Tax Commission v. Jefferson Lines, Inc.\", 514 U.S. 175 (1995):\n\nThe command has been stated more easily than its object has been attained, however, and the Court's understanding of the dormant Commerce Clause has taken some turns. In its early stages, the Court held the view that interstate commerce was wholly immune from state taxation \"in any form\", \"even though the same amount of tax should be laid on (intrastate) commerce\". This position gave way in time to a less uncompromising but formal approach, according to which, for example, the Court would invalidate a state tax levied on gross receipts from interstate commerce, or upon the \"freight carried\" in interstate commerce, but would allow a tax merely measured by gross receipts from interstate commerce as long as the tax was formally imposed upon franchises, or \"'in lieu of all taxes upon (the taxpayer's) property,'\" Dissenting from this formal approach in 1927, Justice Stone remarked that it was \"too mechanical, too uncertain in its application, and too remote from actualities, to be of value.\" \n\nAccompanying the revolution in approach in the Court's Congressional powers jurisprudence, the New Deal Court began to change its approach to state taxation as well. The Jefferson Lines decision continues:\n\nIn 1938, the old formalism began to give way with Justice Stone's opinion in \"Western Live Stock v. Bureau of Revenue\", 303 U.S. 250, which examined New Mexico's franchise tax, measured by gross receipts, as applied to receipts from out-of-state advertisers in a journal produced by taxpayers in New Mexico but circulated both inside and outside the State. Although the assessment could have been sustained solely on prior precedent, Justice Stone added a dash of the pragmatism that, with a brief interlude, has since become our aspiration in this quarter of the law. ... The Court explained that \"[i]t was not the purpose of the commerce clause to relieve those engaged in interstate commerce from their just share of state tax burden even though it increases the cost of doing the business.\" \n\nDuring the transition period, some taxes were upheld based on a careful review of the actual economic impact of the tax, and other taxes were reviewed based on the kind of tax involved, whether the tax had a nefarious impact on commerce or not. Under this formalistic approach, a tax might be struck down, and then re-passed with exactly the same economic incidence, but under another name, and then withstand review.\n\nThe absurdity of this approach was made manifest in the two Railway Express cases. In the first, a tax imposed by the state of Virginia on American business concerns operating within the state was struck down because it was a business privilege tax imposed on the privilege of doing business in interstate commerce. But then, in the second, Virginia revised the wording of its statute to impose a \"franchise tax\" on \"intangible property\" in the form of \"going concern\" value as measured by gross receipts.\n\nThe Court upheld the reworded statute as not violative of the prohibition on privilege taxes, even though the impact of the old tax and new were essentially identical. There was no real economic difference between the statutes in Railway Express I and Railway Express II. The Court long since had recognized that interstate commerce may be made to pay its way. Yet under the Spector rule, the economic realities in Railway Express I became irrelevant. The Spector rule (against privilege taxes) had come to operate only as a rule of draftsmanship, and served only to distract the courts and parties from their inquiry into whether the challenged tax produced results forbidden by the Commerce Clause.\n\nThe death knell of formalism occurred in \"Complete Auto Transit, Inc v. Brady\", 430 U.S. 274 (1977), which approved a Mississippi privilege tax upon a Michigan company engaged in the business of shipping automobiles to Mississippi dealers. The Court there explained:\n\nAppellant's attack is based solely on decisions of this Court holding that a tax on the \"privilege\" of engaging in an activity in the State may not be applied to an activity that is part of interstate commerce. See, e. g., \"Spector Motor Service v. O'Connor\", 340 U.S. 602 (1951); \"Freeman v. Hewit\", 329 U.S. 249 (1946). This rule looks only to the fact that the incidence of the tax is the \"privilege of doing business\"; it deems irrelevant any consideration of the practical effect of the tax. The rule reflects an underlying philosophy that interstate commerce should enjoy a sort of \"free trade\" immunity from state taxation. \n\nComplete Auto Transit is the last in a line of cases that gradually rejected a per se approach to state taxation challenges under the commerce clause. In overruling prior decisions which struck down privilege taxes per se, the Court noted the following, in what has become a central component of commerce clause state taxation jurisprudence:\n\nWe note again that no claim is made that the activity is not sufficiently connected to the State to justify a tax, or that the tax is not fairly related to benefits provided the taxpayer, or that the tax discriminates against interstate commerce, or that the tax is not fairly apportioned.\n\nThese four factors, nexus, relationship to benefits, discrimination, and apportionment, have come to be regarded as the four Complete Auto Transit factors applied repeatedly in subsequent cases. Complete Auto Transit must be recognized as the culmination of the Court's emerging commerce clause approach, not just in taxation, but in all of its aspects. Application of Complete Auto Transit to State taxation remains a highly technical and specialized venture, requiring the application of commerce clause principles to an understanding of specialized tax law.\n\nIn addition to satisfying the four-prong test in \"Complete Auto Transit\", the Supreme Court has held state taxes which burden international commerce cannot create a substantial risk of multiple taxations and must not prevent the federal government from \"speaking with one voice when regulating commercial relations with foreign governments\". \"Japan Lines, Ltd. v. County of Los Angeles\", 441 U.S. 434 (1979).\n\nIn \"Kraft Gen. Foods, Inc. v. Iowa Dept. of Revenue and Finance\", 505 U.S. 71 (1992), the Supreme Court considered a case in which Iowa taxed dividends from foreign subsidiaries, without allowing a credit for taxes paid to foreign governments, but not dividends from domestic subsidiaries operating outside Iowa. This differential treatment arose from Iowa's adoption of the definition of \"net income\" used by the Internal Revenue Service. For federal income tax purposes, dividends from domestic subsidiaries are allowed to be exempted from the parent corporations income to avoid double taxation. The Iowa Supreme Court rejected a Commerce Clause claim because Kraft failed to show \"that Iowa businesses receive a commercial advantage over foreign commerce due to Iowa's taxing scheme.\" Considering an Equal Protection Clause challenge, the Iowa Supreme Court held that the use of the federal government's definitions of income were convenient for the state and was \"rationally related to the goal of administrative efficiency\". The Supreme Court rejected the notion that administrative convenience was a sufficient defense for subjecting foreign commerce to a higher tax burden than interstate commerce. The Supreme Court held that \"a State's preference for domestic commerce over foreign commerce is inconsistent with the Commerce Clause even if the State's own economy is not a direct beneficiary of the discrimination.\"\n\nDiscrimination in the flow of interstate commerce has arisen in a variety of contexts. A line of important cases has dealt with local processing requirements. Under the local processing requirement, a municipality seeks to force the local processing of raw materials before they are shipped in interstate commerce.\n\nThe basic idea of the local processing ordinance was to provide favored access to local processors of locally produced raw materials. Examples of Supreme Court decisions in this vein are set out in its Carbone decision. They include \"Minnesota v. Barber\", 136 U.S. 313, (1890) (striking down a Minnesota statute that required any meat sold within the State, whether originating within or without the State, to be examined by an inspector within the State); \"Foster-Fountain Packing Co. v. Haydel\", 278 U.S. 1 (1928) (striking down a Louisiana statute that forbade shrimp to be exported unless the heads and hulls had first been removed within the State); \"Johnson v. Haydel\", 278 U.S. 16 (1928) (striking down analogous Louisiana statute for oysters); \"Toomer v. Witsell\", 334 U.S. 385 (1948) (striking down South Carolina statute that required shrimp fishermen to unload, pack, and stamp their catch before shipping it to another State); \"Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc.\", supra (striking down Arizona statute that required all Arizona-grown cantaloupes to be packaged within the State prior to export); \"South-Central Timber Development, Inc. v. Wunnicke\", 467 U.S. 82 (1984) (striking down an Alaska regulation that required all Alaska timber to be processed within the State prior to export). The Court has defined \"protectionist\" state legislation as \"regulatory measures designed to benefit in-state economic interests by burdening out-of-state competitors\". \"New Energy Co. of Indiana v. Limbach\", 486 U.S. 269, 273–74 (1988).\n\nIn the 1980s, spurred by RCRA's emphasis on comprehensive local planning, many states and municipalities sought to promote investment in more costly disposal technologies, such as waste-to-energy incinerators, state-of-the-art landfills, composting and recycling. Some states and localities sought to promote private investment in these costly technologies by guaranteeing a longterm supply of customers. See Phillip Weinberg, Congress, the Courts, and Solid Waste Transport: Good Fences Don't Always Make Good Neighbors, 25 Envtl. L. 57 (1995); Atlantic Coast Demolition & Recycling, Inc., 112 F.3d 652, 657 (3d Cir. 1997). For about a decade, the use of regulation to channel private commerce to designated private disposal sites was greatly restricted as the result of the Carbone decision discussed below.\n\nFlow control laws typically came in various designs. One common theme was the decision to fund local infrastructure by guaranteeing a minimum volume of business for privately constructed landfills, incinerators, composters or other costly disposal sites. In some locales, choice of the flow control device was driven by state bonding laws, or municipal finance concerns. If a county or other municipality issued general obligation bonds for construction of a costly incinerator, for example, state laws might require a special approval process. If approval could be obtained, the bonds themselves would be counted against governmental credit limitations, or might impact the governmental body's credit rating: in either instance the ability to bond for other purposes might be impaired. But by guaranteeing customers for a privately constructed and financed facility, a private entity could issue its own bonds, privately, on the strength of the public's waste assurance.\n\nThe private character of flow control regimens can thus be explained in part by the desire to utilize particular kinds of public financing devices. It can also be explained by significant encouragement at the national level, in national legislation as well as in federal executive policy to achieve environmental objectives utilizing private resources. Ironically, these public-private efforts often took the form of local processing requirements which ultimately ran afoul of the commerce clause.\n\nThe Town of Clarkstown had decided that it wanted to promote waste assurance through a local private transfer station. The transfer station would process waste and then forward the waste to the disposal site designated by the Town. The ordinance had the following features:\n\nWaste hauling in the Town of Clarkstown was accomplished by private haulers, subject to local regulation. The scheme had the following aspects: (A) The Town promoted the financing of a privately owned transfer station through a waste assurance agreement with the private company. Thus the designated facility was a private company. (B) The Town of Clarkstown forced private haulers to bring their solid waste for local processing at the designated transfer station, even if the ultimate destination of solid waste was an out-of-state disposal site. (C) The primary rationale for forcing in-state waste into the designated private transfer station was financial; it was seen as a device to raise revenue to finance the transfer station.\n\nThe Town of Clarkstown's ordinance was designed and written right in the teeth of the long line of Supreme Court cases which had historically struck down local processing requirements. In short, it was as if the authors of the ordinance had gone to a treatise on the commerce clause and intentionally chosen a device which had been traditionally prohibited. A long line of Supreme Court case law had struck down local processing requirements when applied to goods or services in interstate commerce. As the Court in Carbone wrote:\n\nWe consider a so-called flow control ordinance, which requires all solid waste to be processed at a designated transfer station before leaving the municipality. The avowed purpose of the ordinance is to retain the processing fees charged at the transfer station to amortize the cost of the facility. Because it attains this goal by depriving competitors, including out-of-state firms, of access to a local market, we hold that the flow control ordinance violates the Commerce Clause.\n\nThe Court plainly regarded the decision as a relatively unremarkable decision, not a bold stroke. As the Court wrote: \"The case decided today, while perhaps a small new chapter in that course of decisions, rests nevertheless upon well-settled principles of our Commerce Clause jurisprudence.\" And, the Court made it plain, that the problem with Clarkstown's ordinance was that it created a local processing requirement protective of a local private processing company:\n\nIn this light, the flow control ordinance is just one more instance of local processing requirements that we long have held invalid ... The essential vice in laws of this sort is that they bar the import of the processing service. Out-of-state meat inspectors, or shrimp hullers, or milk pasteurizers, are deprived of access to local demand for their services. Put another way, the offending local laws hoard a local resource—be it meat, shrimp, or milk—for the benefit of local businesses that treat it. 511 U.S. at 392–393.\n\nThe Court's 2007 decision in \"United Haulers Association v. Oneida-Herkimer Solid Waste Management Authority\" starkly illustrates the difference in result when the Court finds that local regulation is not discriminatory. The Court dealt with a flow control regimen quite similar to that considered in Carbone. The \"only salient difference is that the laws at issue here require haulers to bring waste to facilities owned and operated by a state-created public benefit corporation.\" The Court decided that the balancing test should apply, because the regulatory scheme favored the government owned facility, but treated all private facilities equally.\n\nCompelling reasons justify treating these laws differently from laws favoring particular private businesses over their competitors. \"Conceptually, of course, any notion of discrimination assumes a comparison of substantially similar entities.\" \"General Motors Corp. v. Tracy\", 519 U.S. 278 (1997). But States and municipalities are not private businesses—far from it. Unlike private enterprise, government is vested with the responsibility of protecting the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens. See \"Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. Massachusetts\", 471 U.S. 724 (1985) ... These important responsibilities set state and local government apart from a typical private business.\n\nThe Court's United Haulers decision demonstrates an understanding of the regulatory justifications for flow control starkly missing in the Carbone decision:\n\nBy the 1980s, the Counties confronted what they could credibly call a solid waste \" 'crisis.' \"... Many local landfills were operating without permits and in violation of state regulations. Sixteen were ordered to close and remediate the surrounding environment, costing the public tens of millions of dollars. These environmental problems culminated in a federal clean-up action against a landfill in Oneida County; the defendants in that case named over local businesses and several municipalities and school districts as third-party defendants The \"crisis\" extended beyond health and safety concerns. The Counties had an uneasy relationship with local waste management companies, enduring price fixing, pervasive overcharging, and the influence of organized crime. Dramatic price hikes were not uncommon: In 1986, for example, a county contractor doubled its waste disposal rate on six weeks' notice\n\nThe Court would not interfere with local government's efforts to solve an important public and safety problem.\n\nThe contrary approach of treating public and private entities the same under the dormant Commerce Clause would lead to unprecedented and unbounded interference by the courts with state and local government. The dormant Commerce Clause is not a roving license for federal courts to decide what activities are appropriate for state and local government to undertake, and what activities must be the province of private market competition. In this case, the citizens of Oneida and Herkimer Counties have chosen the government to provide waste management services, with a limited role for the private sector in arranging for transport of waste from the curb to the public facilities. The citizens could have left the entire matter for the private sector, in which case any regulation they undertook could not discriminate against interstate commerce. But it was also open to them to vest responsibility for the matter with their government, and to adopt flow control ordinances to support the government effort. It is not the office of the Commerce Clause to control the decision of the voters on whether government or the private sector should provide waste management services. \"The Commerce Clause significantly limits the ability of States and localities to regulate or otherwise burden the flow of interstate commerce, but it does not elevate free trade above all other values.\"\n\nThe history of commerce clause jurisprudence evidences a distinct difference in approach where the state is seeking to exercise its public health and safety powers, on the one hand, as opposed to attempting to regulate the flow of commerce. The exact dividing line between the two interests, the right of states to exercise regulatory control over their public health and safety, and the interest of the national government in unfettered interstate commerce is not always easy to discern. One Court has written as follows:\n\nNot surprisingly, the Court's effort to preserve a national market has, on numerous occasions, come into conflict with the states' traditional power to \"legislat[e] on all subjects relating to the health, life, and safety of their citizens.\" \"Huron Portland Cement Co. v. City of Detroit\", 362 U.S. 440, 443 (1960). On these occasions, the Supreme Court has \"struggled (to put it nicely) to develop a set of rules by which we may preserve a national market without needlessly intruding upon the States' police powers, each exercise of which no doubt has some effect on the commerce of the Nation.\" \"Camps Newfound/Owatonna v. Town of Harrison\", 520 U.S. 564, 596 (1997) (Scalia, J., dissenting) (citing \"Okla. Tax Comm'n v. Jefferson Lines\", 514 U.S. 175, 180–83 (1995)); see generally Boris I. Bittker, Regulation of Interstate and Foreign Commerce § 6.01[A], at 6–5 (\"[T]he boundaries of the [State's] off-limits area are, and always have been, enveloped in a haze.\"). Those rules are \"simply stated, if not simply applied.\" Camps Newfound/Owatonna, 520 U.S. at 596 (Scalia, J., dissenting).\n\nA frequently cited example of the deference afforded to the powers of state and local government may be found in \"Exxon Corp. v. Maryland\", 437 U.S. 117 (1978), where the State of Maryland barred producers of petroleum products from operating retail service stations in the state. It is difficult to imagine a regimen which might have greater impact on the way in which markets are organized. Yet, the Court found the legislation constitutionally permitted: \"The fact that the burden of a state regulation falls on some interstate companies does not, by itself establish a claim of discrimination against interstate commerce,\" the Court wrote. The \"Clause protects interstate market, not particular interstate firms, from prohibitive or burdensome regulations.\"\n\nSimilarly, in \"Minnesota v. Clover Leaf Creamery Co.\", 449 U.S. 456 (1981) the Court upheld a state law that banned nonreturnable milk containers made of plastic but permitted other nonreturnable milk containers. The Court found that the existence of a burden on out-of-state plastic industry was not 'clearly excessive' in comparison to the state's interest in promoting conservation. And the court continued:\n\nIn Exxon, the Court stressed that the Commerce Clause protects the interstate market, not particular interstate firms, from prohibitive or burdensome regulations. A nondiscriminatory regulation serving substantial state purpose is not invalid simply because it causes some business to shift from a predominantly out-of-state industry to a predominantly in-state industry. Only if the burden on interstate commerce clearly outweighs the State's legitimate purpose does such a regulation violate the commerce clause. When a state statute regarding safety matters applies equally to interstate and intrastate commerce, the courts are generally reluctant to invalidate it even if it may have some impact on interstate commerce. In \"Bibb v. Navajo Freight Lines\" 359 U.S. 520, 524 (1959), the United States Supreme Court stated: 'These safety measures carry a strong presumption of validity when challenged in court. If there are alternative ways of solving a problem, we do not sit to determine which of them is best suited to achieve a valid state objective. Policy decisions are for the state legislature, absent federal entry into the field. Unless we can conclude on the whole record that \"the total effect of the law as a safety measure in reducing accidents and casualties is so slight or problematical as not to outweigh the national interest in keeping interstate commerce free from interferences which seriously impede it\" we must uphold the statute.\n\nThere are two notable exceptions to the dormant Commerce Clause doctrine that can permit state laws or actions that otherwise violate the Dormant Commerce Clause to survive court challenges.\n\nThe first exception occurs when Congress has legislated on the matter. See \"Western & Southern Life Ins. v. State Board of California\", . In this case the Dormant Commerce Clause is no longer \"dormant\" and the issue is a Commerce Clause issue, requiring a determination of whether Congress has approved, preempted, or left untouched the state law at issue.\n\nThe second exception is \"market participation exception\". This occurs when the state is acting \"in the market\", like a business or customer, rather than as a \"market regulator\". For example, when a state is contracting for the construction of a building or selling maps to state parks, rather than passing laws governing construction or dictating the price of state park maps, it is acting \"in the market\". Like any other business in such cases, a state may favor or shun certain customers or suppliers.\n\nThe Supreme Court introduced the market participant doctrine in \"Hughes v. Alexandria Scrap Corp.\", 426 U.S. 794 (1976), which upheld a Maryland program that offered bounties to scrap processors to destroy abandoned automobile hulks. See also \"Wisconsin Dep't of Indus., Labor & Human Relations v. Gould Inc.\", 475 U.S. 282, 289 (1986); \"Reeves, Inc. v. Stake\", 447 U.S. 429, 437 (1980). Because Maryland required out-of-state processors, but not in-state processors, to submit burdensome documentation to claim their bounties, the state effectively favored in-state processors over out-of-state processors. The Court held that because the state was merely attaching conditions to its expenditure of state funds, the Maryland program affected the market no differently than if Maryland were a private company bidding up the price of auto hulks. Because the state was not \"regulating\" the market, its economic activity was not subject to the anti-discrimination principles underlying the dormant Commerce Clause—and the state could impose different paperwork burdens on out-of-state processors. \"Nothing in the purposes animating the Commerce Clause prohibits a State, in the absence of congressional action, from participating in the market and exercising the right to favor its own citizens over others.\"\n\nAnother important case is \"White v. Massachusetts Council of Constr. Employers, Inc.\", in which the Supreme Court held that the City of Boston could require its building contractors to hire at least fifty percent of their workforce from among Boston residents. 460 U.S. at 214–15. Because all of the employees covered by that mandate were \"in a substantial if informal sense, 'working for the city,' \" Boston was considered to be simply favoring its own residents through the expenditures of municipal funds. The Supreme Court stated, \"when a state or local government enters the market as a participant it is not subject to the restraints of the Commerce Clause.\" Id. at 208. Nothing in the Constitution precludes a local government from hiring a local company precisely because it is local.\n\nOther important cases enunciating the market participation exception principle are \"Reeves, Inc. v. Stake\", and \"South-Central Timber Development, Inc. v. Wunnicke\", . The \"Reeves\" case outlines the market participation exception test. In this case state-run cement co-ops were allowed to make restrictive rules (e.g. rules not to sell out-of-state). Here, this government-sponsored business was acting restrictively like an individually owned business and this action was held to be constitutional. \"South-Central Timber\" is important because it limits the market exception. \"South-Central Timber\" holds that the market-participant doctrine is limited in allowing a State to impose burdens on commerce within the market in which it is a participant, but allows it to go no further. The State may not impose conditions that have a substantial regulatory effect outside of that particular market.\n\nThe \"market participation exception\" to the dormant Commerce Clause does not give states unlimited authority to favor local interests, because limits from other laws and Constitutional limits still apply. In \"United Building & Construction Trades Council v. Camden\", , the city of Camden, New Jersey had passed an ordinance requiring that at least forty percent of the employees of contractors and subcontractors on city projects be Camden residents. The Supreme Court found that while the law was not infirm because of the Dormant Commerce Clause, it violated the Privileges and Immunities Clause of Article IV of the Constitution. Justice Rehnquist's opinion distinguishes the market-participant doctrine from the privileges and immunities doctrine. Similarly, Congress has the power itself under the Commerce Clause to regulate and sanction states acting as \"market participants\", but it lacks power to legislate in ways that violate Article IV.\n\nIn the 21st century, the dormant Commerce Clause has been a frequent legal issue in cases arising under state laws regulating some aspects of Internet activity. Because of the interstate, and often international, nature of Internet communications, state laws addressing internet-related subjects such as spam, online sales or online pornography can often trigger Dormant Commerce Clause issues.\n\nA \"negative\" or \"dormant\" component to the Commerce Clause has been the subject of scholarly discussion for many decades. Both Supreme Court Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas have rejected the notion of a Dormant Commerce Clause. They believe that such a doctrine is inconsistent with an originalist interpretation of the Constitution—so much so that they believe the doctrine is a \"judicial fraud\".\n\nA number of earlier Supreme Court justices also expressed dissatisfaction with the dormant Commerce Clause doctrine. For example, Chief Justice Taney said this in 1847:\n\nIf it was intended to forbid the States from making any regulations of commerce, it is difficult to account for the omission to prohibit it, when that prohibition has been so carefully and distinctly inserted in relation to other powers ... [T]he legislation of Congress and the States has conformed to this construction from the foundation of the government ... The decisions of this court will also, in my opinion, when carefully examined, be found to sanction the construction I am maintaining.\n\nHowever, that statement by Taney in 1847 was before the doctrine morphed in the 1851 case of \"Cooley v. Board of Wardens\", in which Justice Benjamin R. Curtis wrote for the Court that the Commerce Clause does not always require \"exclusive legislation by Congress\".\n\nIn \"Trailer Marine Transport Corp. v. Rivera Vázquez\", 977 F.2d 1, 7-8 (1st Cir. 1992), the First Circuit held that the dormant Commerce Clause applies to Puerto Rico.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18984987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18984987", "title": "Eastern world", "text": "Eastern world\n\nThe term Eastern world refers to various cultures or social structures and philosophical systems depending on the context, most often including at least part of Asia or geographically the countries and cultures east of Europe, the Mediterranean Region and Arab world, specifically in historical (pre-modern) contexts, and in modern times in the context of Orientalism. \n\nThe term is usually not used by people in this region itself, since this Eastern world is a varied, complex and dynamic region, hard to generalize, and although these countries and regions have many common threads running through them, historically they never needed to define themselves collectively against another entity, real or superficial.\n\nThe term originally had a literal geographic meaning, referring to the eastern part of the Old World, contrasting the cultures and civilizations of Asia with those of Europe (the \"Occident\" or Western world). Traditionally, this includes all of Central, North and East Asia (the Far East), Greater Middle East, Southeast Asia and South Asia (the Indian subcontinent). \n\nConceptually, the boundary between east and west is cultural, rather than geographical, as a result of which Australia is typically grouped in the \nWest, while Islamic nations and much of the former Soviet Union are, regardless of location, grouped in the East. Other than Asia and some parts of Africa, Europe has successfully absorbed almost all of the societies of Oceania, and the Americas into the Western world, Turkey, the Philippines,\nIsrael, and Japan, which are geographically located in the Eastern world, are considered at least partially westernized due to the cultural influence of Europe.\n\nAlthough the concept of a united Asian people and not mean Asian race is even more debatable due to the fact that most of the world link the identity of Asian only to the people of South, East and Southeast Asia and so regions like Western Asia that who even though see themselves as part of the Eastern world such as the Arab nations of Western Asia, Israel, Turkey, Iran, and the ethnic groups that come along with these countries do not identify as Asian. \n\nAnother reason why a Pan-Asian identity is a flawed work in progress concept compared to the mass unity found in the continents of Europe and Africa is the fact that Asia is the most racially and ethnically diverse continent in the world that differs very widely among and within its regions with many different cultures, environments, economics, historical ties and government systems whose people have an even further pan-continental belief of nationalistic, cultural, and ethnic individualism many of whom believe came out of the imperialistic colonization of the continent by foreign Western powers back in colonial times and because of this overt sense individualism across the continent once a specific group(s) is labeled something many groups within Asia will have a hard time identifying with the same label. Most of the people of Asia prefer to identify with their individual nations rather than with their continent, region, or each other and these attitudes can be found throughout the continent.\n\nThe division between 'East' and 'West' is a product of European cultural history, and of the distinction between European Christendom and the cultures beyond it to the East. With the European colonization of the Americas the East/West distinction became global. The concept of an Eastern, \"Indian\" (Indies) or \"Oriental\" sphere was emphasized by ideas of racial as well as religious and cultural differences. Such distinctions were articulated by Westerners in the scholarly tradition known as Orientalism and Indology. An intriguing fact to be noted is that Orientalism has been the only Western concept that was about a unified Eastern world and not about any specific region(s), but rather all of Asia together.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the term \"Eastern world\" was sometimes used as an extension of Eastern bloc, connoting the Soviet Union, China and their communist allies, while the term \"Western world\" often connoted the United States and its NATO allies such as the United Kingdom.\n\nThe concept is often another term for the Far East – a region that bears considerable cultural and religious commonality. Eastern philosophy, art, literature, and other traditions, are often found throughout the region in places of high importance, such as popular culture, architecture and traditional literature. The spread of Buddhism and Hindu Yoga is partly responsible for this.\n\nEastern culture has developed many themes and traditions. Some important ones are:\n"}
{"id": "32760378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32760378", "title": "Edict of Toleration 1844", "text": "Edict of Toleration 1844\n\nThe Edict of Toleration took place during the process referred to as the Eastern Question in relations between European powers, Britain in particular, and the Ottoman Empire in its development at a time referred to as Tanzimat internally which included other initiatives like ending the Ottoman slave trade a few years later but overall as part of the Dissolution of the Ottoman Empire – a process that continued into the 1920s. It was largely a result of pressure from the British government on the Sublime Porte, Abdülmecid I of the Ottomans, urging to stop the persecutions of the Christians, and eventually had an effect on the persecutions of Jews, continuing effects such as the earlier Damascus affair. It is one of the edicts of toleration of history.\n\nTanzimat was an Ottoman reform process that sought equal protections under the law in Ottoman lands for all people; however, it did not address matters of religious freedom. A particular incident in 1843 with an Armenian Ottoman subject sparked an incident in August which gained international entanglements and then a Greek national in November, both of whom were put to death - the process of which became the Edict in March 1844. Reverend Edward Bickersteth referred to these developments in 1844 when he summarized diplomatic notes presented to the British Parliament noting \"The correspondence occupied a considerable part of the year—from Aug. 27, 1843, to April 19, 1844.\"\n\nIn February 1844 there is a question on the status of Jew apostates from Islam (who, it was claimed, must pass through being Christian on the way to Islam in the first place) and in March 21, 1844 appears (in translation):\n\nIt is the special and constant intention of His Highness the Sultan that his cordial relations with the High Powers be preserved, and that a perfect reciprocal friendship be maintained and increased.<br>\n\nAccording to Muslim Islamic scholar Cyril Glassé, death for Apostasy in Islam was \"not in practice enforced\" in later times in the Muslim world, and was \"completely abolished\" by \"a decree of the Ottoman government in 1260AH/1844AD.\" This short edict was advanced in the wider Ottoman Reform Edict of 1856.\n\nThe Edict was seen by some especially among the religious as a specific sign leading towards the fulfillment of prophecy.\n\nResearch conducted by Michael Sours into this subject and the records of the development of the Edict did not refer directly to the Jews but rather infers religious tolerance through ending executions for apostasy for Jews that seemed to convert making their social situation easier while actually keeping their personal and group identity in their Judaic religion. Jerusalem has had the largest Jewish population in Palestine in recent centuries since about 1844 and been majority Jewish since about 1852.\n\nThe Edict was first publicly commented upon by Reverend Edward Bickersteth in his publication, \"Practical Guide to the Prophecies\" in the 1844 edition. Adventist William Miller, and those that disagreed with him, though unaware of the Edict and the diplomacy around it, still looked to the fortunes of the Ottoman Empire even in the period. Miller pointed to the year because of the 2300 day prophecy of , relying on the Day-year principle. The 2300 days are understood to represent 2300 years stretching from 457 BC, the calculated starting date of the 70 weeks prophecy based on the 3rd decree found in Ezra, thus leading to 1843/4. Bickersteth acknowledged the same interpretation and added a second - - as a parallel to start the clock for understanding ; taking 390 years as a period for persecution of Christians in the End time. Bickersteth takes this persecution from the triumph of Ottoman rule of Constantinople in 1453, thus 1453+390 is 1843/4, directly before these events. Thus, independently of Miller, a number of Christian authors followed the significance of this declaration from Bickersteth including Alfred Edersheim, a Jewish convert to Christianity and a Biblical scholar, and Henry Grattan Guinness who broadened the themes of the understanding of the edict and its importance, and into the early 20th century with Worth Smith who mentioned it in his 1934 \"Miracle of the Ages\". Adventist mention of the Edict wasn't until 1917.\n\nThornton Chase, commonly recognized as the first convert to the Bahá'í Faith of Occidental background, noted the Edict in his publication \"The Bahai Revelation\" published in 1909. An Irish convert to the religion, George Townshend was the first broadly published to mention the Edict in Bahá'í literature in 1944 when he wrote:\n\nThe proclamation of His Faith was made in 1844, the year when the strict exclusion of the Jews from their own land enforced by the Muslims for some twelve centuries was at last relaxed by the Edict of Toleration and \"the times of the Gentiles\" were \"fulfilled.\" \n\nin the introduction to Shoghi Effendi's book, God Passes By, published in 1944. This was also centrally mentioned by William Sears in his book \"Thief in the Night\" originally published in 1961 and in its 17th edition circa 2012. Both Townshend and Sears had high offices in the religion as Hands of the Cause.\n\n"}
{"id": "47737052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47737052", "title": "Edward Hart (settler)", "text": "Edward Hart (settler)\n\nEdward Hart was an early settler of the American Colonies who, as town clerk, wrote the Flushing Remonstrance, a precursor to the United States Constitution's provision on freedom of religion in the Bill of Rights.\n\nLittle is known with any degree of certainty regarding Edward Hart's life before 1640. Genealogical sources give place and date of birth, year and manner of emigration to North America, and first places of residence within the American colonies, but none provide documentary evidence for their assertions. A man named Edward Hart was one of the early settlers of Rhode Island having obtained a plot of land from Roger Williams and signed an agreement for the government of Providence in 1640. This man married a woman named Margaret whose surname is unknown. There is no definite evidence that this Edward Hart is the same as the Edward Hart of Flushing, Long Island, but sources generally accept that he is.\n\nAlthough there is some level of uncertainty about his prior whereabouts, there is no doubt that on October 10, 1645, Hart was one of 18 men who received a charter from the Dutch governor of New Netherland, William Kieft, to establish the town of Vlissingen (i.e., Flushing) in Long Island. Three of these men came to Flushing from Rhode Island and may have known Hart there. The others, so far as is known, came from Massachusetts, Connecticut, or other towns in Long Island.\n\nIn 1642, after efforts to attract Dutch immigrants had disappointing results, the administration in New Netherland and its parent governors in Amsterdam began to accept applications from English settlers to form towns on Long Island. These settlers brought with them the forms of government common in the settlements of New England. Based on practices common in English towns, these were generally more liberal than the ones granted to New Netherland's Dutch communities and the charter granted to the applicants from Flushing was no exception. Having obtained privileges of self-government that were not granted to the towns where Dutch settlers resided, the settlers from New England were energetic in defending and where possible expanding these rights against efforts of the administration in New Amsterdam to erode them.\n\nIn 1648 Hart, as one of Flushing's landholders, joined with four other men to protest the payment of tithes to the pastor of a state-sponsored church and to question the manner of choosing the town's sole magistrate, the schout, who acted as court officer, prosecutor, and sheriff. On January 17 of that year the government of New Netherland, now headed by Peter Stuyvesant summoned the five men to answer for this resistance to the authorities in New Netherland and ordered them to accept the Dutch method for electing their schout.\n\nStuyvesant did not relent in his efforts to require the inhabitants of Flushing to support a pastor of his choosing nor did he change the method for electing a schout. However, a few months later he expanded local government by granting the town's freeholders the right to elect three additional magistrates, called schaepens, and a clerk. The election of the officials would be subject to confirmation by the New Netherland government but in practice the town's nominations of its officials were routinely accepted. Although there is some doubt about the names and terms of early clerks, it is certain that Hart was clerk in 1656 for in July of that year he signed himself clerk in responding on behalf of the town's schout and schaepens to a demand from the New Netherland government for payment of a tenth of the town's agricultural production as annual tax as provided in its charter. Hart's letter said that Flushing was \"willing to do that which is reasonable and honest\" and proposed an amount of produce (\"fiftie scipple of peas and twentie-five of wheat\") which was apparently acceptable. That he continued as clerk in 1657 is shown by a letter of his dated January 23, 1657, affirming the town's rights and privileges and complaining that the neighboring town of Hempstead was encroaching on its lands.\n\nThe next document bearing Hart's signature as clerk is the famous Flushing Remonstrance of December 27, 1657. The towns settled by immigrants from New England were generally granted charters recognizing their right to freedom of conscience but not freedom of religion. In the case of Flushing, the relevant clause granted the original patentees the right \"to have and Enjoy the Liberty of Conscience, according of Religion; to the Custome and manner of Holland, without molestacōn or disturbance, from any Magistrate or Magistrates, or any other Ecclesiasticall Minister, that may extend Jurisdiccōn over them.\" In practice this meant that men would not be prosecuted for religious practices that did not strongly contradict those of the Dutch Reformed Church which was the official public church in Holland. It also meant that personal beliefs that were contrary to the tenets of the established church would be tolerated so long as they were kept private and expressed only in the narrow circle of the family. Meetings for the public expression of dissenting worship would be prosecuted. Although the early settlers of Flushing complied with these strictures, some of them came into conflict with Stuyvesant and the New Netherlands government when charismatic speakers began to come among them proclaiming nonconformist beliefs. Believing that Quakers posed the most serious threat to religious and civil tranquility, the administration in New Amsterdam proclaimed that any person who took a Quaker into his home, even for a single night, would be fined fifty pounds and that any ships bringing any Quaker into the province would be confiscated. The schout, magistrates, of Flushing, along with twenty-eight other freeholders of that town and two from neighboring Jamaica recognized that they could not, in conscience, obey this regulation and signed a protest, the Remonstrance, explaining why they could not comply. The document says Quakers are not seducers of the people nor are they \"destructive unto magistracy and ministers\" but—along with Presbyterians, Independents, and Baptists—are members of the \"household of faith\" who, when they \"come unto us, we cannot in conscience lay violent hands upon them, but give them free ingress and egress unto our town and houses, so as God shall persuade our consciences.\" It closes by saying that the signatories \"desire to be true subjects both of church and state\" according to the law of God and also to the provisions of the town's charter.\n\nThe collections of colonial documents of this period contain many protests against government actions, but none of such historic import or eloquence of expression as this. The Remonstrance \"concretely illustrates the seventeenth century practice of speaking Scripture\" and is \"an unusually rich display of rhetoric and fine English style.\" It gives forceful religious arguments for tolerance of other religions and the separation of church and state. Nonetheless it is framed on Dutch law, adheres closely to legal forms, and contains nothing that might be construed as politically rebellious.\n\nThe signers of the Remonstrance followed correct procedure in having the town schout, Tobias Feake, submit it to the provincial schout, Nicasius de Sille. De Sille passed it on to Stuyvesant who immediately ordered de Sille to arrest and imprison Feake. A few days later—January 1, 1658—he also ordered the arrest of two of the town's magistrates, Thomas Farrington and William Noble, and on January 3 he summoned Hart to testify. Under examination by Stuyvesant and two councilors, Hart said that the Remonstrance contained the sentiments of the community as expressed in a town meeting, that some who were not present at the meeting signed afterward, and that he did not know who called the meeting or who had drafted the document for the community's consideration. Having suffered imprisonment for three weeks Hart wrote the governor and council on January 28 requesting to be released. He acknowledged no offense and made no excuse for writing the Remonstrance but begged mercy and consideration for his \"poore estate and Condition\" and promised that he would \"indeavor hereafter to walke inoffensively.\" The council responded the same day. The record of its decision says something about his performance as town clerk and his standing in the community:In Council received and read the foregoing petition of the imprisoned Clerk of Vlissingen, Edward Hart, and having considered his verbal promises of better behavior and the mediation of some inhabitants of said village, also that he has always been an efficient officer and as an old resident is well acquainted with divers matters; further whereas the Schout Tobias Feakx has advised him to draw up the remonstrance recorded on the first of January and he is burdened with a large family,\n\nThe Director-General and Council forgive and pardon his error this time on condition of his paying the costs and misses of law. On March 26 the director-general and council passed an ordinance intended to prevent the town from ever again submitting a \"seditious and mutinous\" document like the Remonstrance. Saying that \"all the late Schouts successively have manifested no small negligence,\" it added new qualifications for the office aimed at obtaining persons \"better versed in Dutch Practice, and somewhat conversant in both languages, the English and Dutch.\" It also prohibited town meetings for conducting ordinary business and, in their place, instituted a town council consisting of seven persons to assist the schout and magistrates and it required the town to acquire and maintain \"an Orthodox Minister\" to conduct religious services.\n\nHart gave somewhat inconsistent statements in his interrogation by Stuyvesant, de Sille, and Tonneman, saying first that he drew up the Remonstrance on the order of those who signed it in order to record the \"opinion of the people\" of the town and then saying that he had prepared it before the town meeting at which he submitted it for consideration. He pleaded ignorance concerning the responsibility of any specific individuals as instigators prior to the town meeting. Pressed to explain his inconsistent testimony he said the draft he prepared prior to the meeting contained \"what he thought to be the opinion of the people.\" The questions submitted to Hart show that Stuyvesant and the two councilors suspected that the four town officials who signed the document (the schout, two magistrates, and Hart) bore primary responsibility for it. After interrogating the two magistrates and after the two of them and Hart had submitted apologies for their actions, the governor and councilors settled on the schout as mainly responsible. Although they singled out Feake for punishment, the ordinance they passed subsequent to the release from imprisonment and pardoning of the Hart and the magistrates maintains that all four of the town's officials were jointly at fault. It says that most of the men who signed the Remonstrance were \"urged to subscribe by the previous signatures of the Schout, Clerk and some Magistrates.\"\n\nHistorians who have considered this subject have not agreed about who took the lead in preparing the Remonstrance and, as a result, it is not known which of its signers most inspired its moving appeal for freedom of conscience. Some maintain that the schout, Feake, was mainly responsible. Others say it was mainly Hart's doing or that, at least, the language was his. One says that the four town officials were more or less equally responsible. Many accounts say that the responsibility was communal. One author makes a case for a strong influence of Baptist beliefs among those who signed the document.\n\nThere is little information about Hart following his pardoning and release from prison. In 1660 and 1661 his name appears as a witness on deeds for transfer of land and in the latter year he was listed as a tax collector in Flushing. On April 13, 1662, Hart wrote Stuyvesant on behalf of Flushing residents to request help in dealing with three Indians \"who demand pay for the Land wee live vpon\" and later that year (June 26) A man whose name is given as Eduart Hart obtained a translation from the Notary Public in New Amsterdam. After that there is no assured documentary evidence regarding him. The last references to a man who is supposed to have been Hart are in records of land transfer. In 1679 a man named Robert West acquired land originally owned by an Edward Hart in Providence, R.I. and in 1707 land formerly owned by him is referred to in a deed filed by a man named William Field. It is likely but not certain that this Edward Hart is the same as the one who wrote the Remonstrance.\n\nHart's life after 1662 is described from inferences lacking a clear documentary trail. With his wife, Margaret, he is said to have had two sons, Thomas and Jonathan. Hart having returned to Rhode Island and then died, his wife is supposed to have remarried. Some genealogical and other sources say that Jonathan Hart died in Newtown, Long Island, in 1671, however \"Early Wills of Westchester County, New York, from 1664 to 1784\" by William Smith Pelletreau (Francis P. Harper, New York, 1898) says that the family of one Monmouth Hart of Rye, New York, is descended from an Edmund Hart who signed the Flushing Remonstrance and that his son, Jonathan Hart, came to Rye in 1685 and subsequently married Hannah Budd. Thomas Hart is said to have married Freeborn Williams, a daughter of Roger Williams and this fact is supported by a note in \"The genealogical dictionary of Rhode Island\" by John Osborne Austin (Joel Munsells Sons, Albany, 1887). The note says that the Edward Hart who was granted land in Providence and subsequently signed the civil compact of 1640 was the husband of a woman named Margaret and the two were parents of a son named Thomas. It says that this son lived in Newport, Rhode Island, and was husband of Freeborn Williams, daughter of Roger Williams and his wife Mary. Although most sources accept that this Edward Hart is the same man as the one who drafted the Remonstrance, they offer no evidence to support their inference.\n\nIn 1789 all the records of the town of Flushing were destroyed in a fire and in 1911 a fire caused serious damage to the manuscripts of the New Netherland colony. Although no copies had been made of the Flushing documents and they were thus lost forever, many of the Dutch colonial documents had been transcribed and printed prior to the 1911 fire.\n"}
{"id": "26613492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26613492", "title": "Egain forecasting", "text": "Egain forecasting\n\nEgain forecasting is a method of controlling building heating by calculating demand for heating energy that should be supplied to the building in each time unit. By combining physics of structures with meteorology, properties of the building, weather conditions including outdoor temperature, wind power and direction, as well as solar radiation can be taken into account. In the case of conventional heating control, only current outdoor temperature is considered.\n\nThe starting point for developing the method of eGain forecasting was the ENLOSS mathematical energy balance model developed by Prof. Roger Taesler\n\nUntil 2017 inclusive, forecasting method has been introduced in nearly 16 million square metres of floorage of residential buildings and commercial premises. Estimated data indicate 10 - 15 kWh/\"m\" reduction of average annual heat energy consumption. Since forecasting method contains information about future demand and is not in conflict with other methods of increasing energy efficiency, it is always a good foreground solution.\n\nAs far as practical use of forecasting method is concerned, usually remote control forecasting receivers are used to send and receive data by means of GPRS or GSM network. Then, the forecasting receivers manage the operation of control panels installed in buildings which adjust distribution of heat energy in the heating system of a given property.\n\nRecently, special remote control weather loggers have started to be used in combination with forecasting receivers. The weather loggers measure air temperature and humidity with high accuracy and the measurements are sent in real time to forecasting receivers to which they are connected. Such a turning point in technology means even more detailed preview of situation and better possibilities of control for users of forecasting method.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59604", "title": "Epiphenomenon", "text": "Epiphenomenon\n\nAn epiphenomenon (plural: epiphenomena) is a secondary phenomenon that occurs alongside or in parallel to a primary phenomenon. The word has two senses, one that connotes known causation and one that connotes absence of causation or reservation of judgment about it.\n\nThe problem of epiphenomena is often a counterexample to theories of causation and is identified with situations in which an event E is caused by (or, is said to be caused by) an event C, which also causes (or, is said to cause) an event F. For example, take a simplified Lewisian counterfactual analysis of causation that the meaning of propositions about causal relationships between two events A and B can be explained in terms of counterfactual conditionals of the form “if A had not occurred then B would not have occurred”. Suppose that C causes E necessarily and that C has an epiphenomenon F necessarily. We then have that if E had not occurred, then F would not have occurred, either. But then according to the counterfactual analysis of causation, the proposition that there is a causal dependence of F on E is true; that is, on this view, E caused F. Since this is not in line with how we ordinarily speak about causation (we would not say that E caused F), a counterfactual analysis seems to be insufficient.\n\nAn epiphenomenon can be an effect of primary phenomena, but cannot affect a primary phenomenon. In philosophy of mind, epiphenomenalism is the view that mental phenomena are epiphenomena in that they can be caused by physical phenomena, but cannot cause physical phenomena. In strong epiphenomenalism, epiphenomena that are mental phenomena can \"only\" be caused by physical phenomena, not by other mental phenomena. In weak epiphenomenalism, epiphenomena that are mental phenomena can be caused by both physical phenomena and other mental phenomena, but mental phenomena cannot be the cause of any physical phenomenon. \n\nThe physical world operates independently of the mental world in epiphenomenalism; the mental world exists as a derivative parallel world to the physical world, affected by the physical world (and by other epiphenomena in weak epiphenomenalism), but not able to have an effect on the physical world. Instrumentalist versions of epiphenomenalism allow some mental phenomena to cause physical phenomena, when those mental phenomena can be strictly analyzable as summaries of physical phenomena, preserving causality of the physical world to be strictly analyzable by other physical phenomena.\n\nIn the more general use of the word, a causal relationship between the phenomena is implied; the epiphenomenon is a consequence of the primary phenomenon. This is the sense that is related to the noun \"epiphenomenalism\".\n\nHowever, in medicine, this relationship is typically \"not\" implied, and the word is usually used in its second sense: an epiphenomenon may occur independently, and is called an epiphenomenon because it is not the primary phenomenon under study or because only correlation, not causation, is known or suspected. In this sense, saying that X is associated with Y as an epiphenomenon is preserving an acknowledgment that correlation does not imply causation. Signs, symptoms, syndromes (groups of symptoms), and risk factors can all be epiphenomena in this sense. For example, having an increased risk of breast cancer concurrent with taking an antibiotic is an epiphenomenon. It is not the antibiotic that is causing the increased risk, but the increased inflammation associated with the bacterial infection that prompted the taking of an antibiotic. The metaphor of a tree is one way of helping to explain the difference to someone struggling to understand. If the infection is the root of the tree, and the inflammation is the trunk, then the cancer and the antibiotic are two branches; the antibiotic is not the trunk.\n\nAlthough electronics is said to be due to the influence of electrons, the standard approach to the study of electrical phenomena due to James Clerk Maxwell views these particles as secondary:\nAccording to epiphenomenalism, free will having an effect on the physical world is an illusion, as physical phenomena can only be caused by other physical phenomena. In weak epiphenomenalism, there is free will to cause some mental effects, allowing for mental discipline that is directed at other mental phenomena.\n\nWeak versions of behaviorism in psychology admit the existence of mental phenomena but not their meaningful study as causes of observable behavior and view mental phenomena as either epiphenomena or linguistic summaries, instruments to examine objectively observable physical behavior.\n\nIn the field of complex systems, the term epiphenomenon tends to be used interchangeably with \"emergent effect\".\n\nZenon Pylyshyn suggested a propositional model of cognition where people do not conceptualize ideas in images but rather in meaningful relationships. In this theory, epiphenomena refer to images because they are merely products people conceptualize from their actual thought processes. Pylyshyn defends his claim by explaining that we only see images when we envision the form of an object. While visualizing objects or actions is a frequent process in our mind, it does not occur when we are considering the meaning behind an action or the non-visual properties of an object. There are many concepts we simply cannot envision. Additionally, when envisioning an image, it changes based on our preconceived notions, suggesting that semantic relations precede visual images. Unfortunately, the idea of epiphenomena in propositional theory is largely subjective and not falsifiable.\n"}
{"id": "33801744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33801744", "title": "Family Violence Prevention and Services Act", "text": "Family Violence Prevention and Services Act\n\nThe Family Violence Prevention and Services Act (FVPSA) is a United States law, first authorized as part of the Child Abuse Amendments of 1984 (PL 98–457), that provides federal funding to help victims of domestic violence and their dependent children by providing shelter and related help, offering violence prevention programs, and improving how service agencies work together in communities. \n\n"}
{"id": "11436221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11436221", "title": "Fragmentalism", "text": "Fragmentalism\n\nFragmentalism is a view that holds that the world consists of individual and independent objects. The term contends that the world is indeed composed of separable parts, and that it is chiefly knowable through the study of these component parts, rather than through wholes. It therefore stands opposed to holistic interpretations of phenomena.\n\"The Fragmentalists carved the universe up into smaller and smaller pieces until they reached such a fine level of subdivision that they could no longer observe the pieces directly.\" (Stewart & Cohen, p.198) \"As the tale of the Fragmentalists demonstrates, reductionist science usually looks for a mathematical equation, formula, or process that describes general features of the universe.\" (Stewart & Cohen, p.200)\n\nFragmentalism has also been defined as \"the notion that knowledge is a growing collection of substantiated facts or \"nuggets of truth.\"\" Anti-realists use the term fragmentalism in arguments that the world does not exist of separable entities, instead consisting of wholes. For example, advocates of this position declare that: The linear deterministic approach to nature and technology promoted a fragmented perception of reality, and a loss of the ability to foresee, to adequately evaluate, in all their complexity, global crises in ecology, civilization and education.\nThis term is usually applied to reductionist modes of thought, frequently with the related pejorative term of \"scientism\". This usage is popular amongst some ecological activists: There is a need now to move away from scientism and the ideology of cause-and-effect determinism toward a radical empiricism, such as William James proposed, as an epistemology of science. These perspectives are not new and in the early twentieth century, William James noted that rationalist science emphasized what he termed fragmentation and disconnection.\nAn alternative usage of this term is in cognitive psychology. Here, George Kelly developed \"constructive alternativism\" as a form of personal construct psychology, this provided an alternative to what he saw as \"accumulative fragmentalism\". In this theory, knowledge is seen as the construction of successful mental models of the exterior world, rather than the accumulation of independent \"nuggets of truth\".\n\nThe term also has ancillary uses in education, in design theory,\nand environmentalism, as well as in healthcare and business management.\n\nThe term has been used in politics, in anthropology, in international development and in ecological economics. The term has also been used in Cultural Studies and in history\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1180710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1180710", "title": "Gratitude", "text": "Gratitude\n\nGratitude, thankfulness, or gratefulness, from the Latin word \"gratus\" ‘pleasing, thankful’, is a feeling of appreciation felt by and/or similar positive response shown by the recipient of kindness, gifts, help, favors, or other types of generosity, towards the giver of such gifts. \n\nThe experience of gratitude has historically been a focus of several world religions. It has also been a topic of interest to ancient, medieval and modern philosophers, and continues to engage contemporary philosophers. \n\nThe systematic study of gratitude within psychology only began around the year 2000, possibly because psychology traditionally focused more on understanding distress than on understanding positive emotions. The study of gratitude within psychology has focused on the understanding of the short term experience of the emotion of gratitude (state gratitude), individual differences in how frequently people feel gratitude (trait gratitude), and the relationship between these two aspects.\n\nGratitude is not the same as \"indebtedness\". While both emotions occur following help, indebtedness occurs when a person perceives that they are under an obligation to make some repayment of compensation for the aid. The emotions lead to different actions; indebtedness can motivate the recipient of the aid to avoid the person who has helped them, whereas gratitude can motivate the recipient to seek out their benefactor and to improve their relationship with them.\n\nGratitude may also serve to reinforce future prosocial behavior in benefactors. For example, one experiment found that customers of a jewelry store who were called and thanked showed a subsequent 70% increase in purchases. In comparison, customers who were called and told about a sale showed only a 30% increase in purchases, and customers who were not called at all did not show an increase. In another study, regular patrons of a restaurant gave bigger tips when servers wrote \"Thank you\" on their checks.\n\nThe link between spirituality and gratitude has recently become a popular subject of study. While these two characteristics are certainly not dependent on each other, studies have found that spirituality is capable of enhancing a person’s ability to be grateful and therefore, those who regularly attend religious services or engage in religious activities are more likely to have a greater sense of gratitude in all areas of life. Gratitude is viewed as a prized human propensity in the Christian, Buddhist, Muslim, Jewish, Baha'i, and Hindu traditions. Worship with gratitude to God is a common theme in such religions and therefore, the concept of gratitude permeates religious texts, teachings, and traditions. For this reason, it is one of the most common emotions that religions aim to provoke and maintain in followers and is regarded as a universal religious sentiment.\n\nIn Judaism, gratitude is an essential part of the act of worship and a part of every aspect of a worshiper’s life. According to the Hebrew worldview, all things come from God and because of this, gratitude is extremely important to the followers of Judaism. The Hebrew Scriptures are filled with the idea of gratitude. Two examples included in the psalms are \"O Lord my God, I will give thanks to you forever,\" and \"I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart\" (Ps. 30:12; Ps. 9:1). The Jewish prayers also often incorporate gratitude beginning with the Shema, where the worshiper states that out of gratitude, \"You shall love the Eternal, your God, with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your might\" (Deut. 6:5). One of the crucial blessings in the central thrice-daily prayer, the \"Amidah\", is called \"Modim\" - \"We give thanks to You\"; this is also the only blessing which is recited by the congregation together with the leader during their repetition of the Amidah. The concluding prayer, the Alenu, also speaks of gratitude by thanking God for the particular destiny of the Jewish people. Along with these prayers, faithful worshipers recite more than one hundred blessings called berachot throughout the day. In Judaism there is also a major emphasis on gratitude for acts of human kindness and goodness.\n\nGratitude has been said to mold and shape the entire Christian life. Martin Luther referred to gratitude as \"The basic Christian attitude\" and today it is still referred to as \"the heart of the gospel.\" Christians are strongly encouraged to praise and give gratitude to their creator. In Christian gratitude, God is seen as the selfless giver of all good things and because of this, there is a deep sense of gratefulness which enables Christians to share a common bond, shaping all aspects of a follower’s life. Gratitude in Christianity is an acknowledgment of God’s generosity that inspires Christians to shape their own thoughts and actions around such ideals. Instead of simply a sentimental feeling, Christian gratitude is regarded as a virtue that shapes not only emotions and thoughts but also actions and deeds.\nJonathan Edwards writes in his \"A Treatise Concerning Religious Affections\" that gratitude and thankfulness toward God are among the signs of true religion. Because of this interpretation, modern measures of religious spirituality include assessments of thankfulness and gratitude towards God. Allport (1950) suggested that mature religious intentions come from feelings of profound gratitude and Edwards (1746/1959) claimed that the \"affection\" of gratitude is one of the most accurate ways of finding the presence of God in a person’s life. In a study done by Samuels and Lester (1985) it was contended that in a small sample of Catholic nuns and priests, out of 50 emotions, love and gratitude were the most experienced emotion towards God.\n\nIn the Orthodox, Catholic and Anglican churches, the most important rite is called the Eucharist; the name derives from the Greek word eucharistia for thanksgiving.\n\nThe Islamic sacred text, The Quran, is filled with the idea of gratitude. Islam encourages its followers to be grateful and express thanks to God in all circumstances. Islamic teaching emphasizes the idea that those who are grateful will be rewarded with more. A traditional Islamic saying states that, \"The first who will be summoned to paradise are those who have praised God in every circumstance\" In the Quran it is also stated in Sura 14 that those who are grateful will be given more by God. The prophet Muhammad also said, \"Gratitude for the abundance you have received is the best insurance that the abundance will continue.\"\nMany practices of the Islamic faith also encourage gratitude. The Pillar of Islam calling for daily prayer encourages believers to pray to God five times a day in order to thank him for his goodness. The pillar of fasting during the month of Ramadan is for the purpose of putting the believer in a state of gratitude.\n\nMuch of the recent work psychological research into gratitude has focused on the nature of individual difference in gratitude, and the consequences of being a more or less grateful person. Three scales have been developed to measure individual differences in gratitude, each of which assesses somewhat different conceptions. The GQ6 measures individual differences in how frequently and intensely people feel gratitude. The Appreciation Scale measures 8 different aspects of gratitude: appreciation of people, possessions, the present moment, rituals, feeling of awe, social comparisons, existential concerns, and behaviour which expresses gratitude. The GRAT assesses gratitude towards other people, gratitude towards the world in general, and a lack of resentment for what you do not have. A recent study showed that each of these scales are actually all measuring the same way of approaching life; this suggests that individual differences in gratitude include all of these components.\n\nA large body of recent work has suggested that people who are more grateful have higher levels of subjective well-being. Grateful people are happier, less depressed, less stressed, and more satisfied with their lives and social relationships. Specifically, in terms of depression, gratitude may serve as a buffer by enhancing the coding and retrievability of positive experiences. Grateful people also have higher levels of control of their environments, personal growth, purpose in life, and self acceptance. Grateful people have more positive ways of coping with the difficulties they experience in life, being more likely to seek support from other people, reinterpret and grow from experiences, and spend more time planning how to deal with the problem. Grateful people also have less negative coping strategies, being less likely to try to avoid the problem, deny there is a problem, blame themselves, or cope through substance use. Grateful people sleep better, and this seems to be because they think less negative and more positive thoughts just before going to sleep.\n\nGratitude has been said to have one of the strongest links with mental health of any character trait. Numerous studies suggest that grateful people are more likely to have higher levels of happiness and lower levels of stress and depression.\n\nWhile many emotions and personality traits are important to well-being, there is evidence that gratitude may be uniquely important. First, a longitudinal study showed that people who were more grateful coped better with a life transition. Specifically, people who were more grateful before the transition were less stressed, less depressed, and more satisfied with their relationships three months later. Second, two recent studies have suggested that gratitude may have a unique relationship with well-being, and can explain aspects of well-being that other personality traits cannot. Both studies showed that gratitude was able to explain more well-being than the Big Five and 30 of the most commonly studied personality traits.\n\nGratitude has also been shown to improve a person’s altruistic tendencies. One study conducted by David DeSteno and Monica Bartlett (2010) found that gratitude is correlated with economic generosity. In this study, using an economic game, increased gratitude was shown to directly mediate increased monetary giving. From these results, this study shows that grateful people are more likely to sacrifice individual gains for communal profit (DeSteno & Bartlett, 2010). A study conducted by McCullough, Emmons, & Tsang, (2002) found similar correlations between gratitude and empathy, generosity, and helpfulness.\n\nGiven that gratitude appears to be a strong determinant of people's well-being, several psychological interventions have been developed to increase gratitude. For example, Watkins and colleagues had participants test a number of different gratitude exercises, such as thinking about a living person for whom they are grateful, writing about someone for whom they are grateful, and writing a letter to deliver to someone for whom they are grateful. Participants in the control condition were asked to describe their living room. Participants who engaged in a gratitude exercise showed increases in their experiences of positive emotion immediately after the exercise, and this effect was strongest for participants who were asked to think about a person for whom they are grateful. Participants who had grateful personalities to begin with showed the greatest benefit from these gratitude exercises. In another study concerning gratitude, participants were randomly assigned to one of six therapeutic intervention conditions designed to improve the participants' overall quality of life (Seligman et al., 2005). Out of these conditions, it was found that the biggest short-term effects came from a \"gratitude visit\" where participants wrote and delivered a letter of gratitude to someone in their life. This condition showed a rise in happiness scores by 10 percent and a significant fall in depression scores, results which lasted up to one month after the visit. Out of the six conditions, the longest lasting effects were associated with the act of writing \"gratitude journals\" where participants were asked to write down three things they were grateful for every day. These participants’ happiness scores also increased and continued to increase each time they were tested periodically after the experiment. In fact, the greatest benefits were usually found to occur around six months after treatment began. This exercise was so successful that although participants were only asked to continue the journal for a week, many participants continued to keep the journal long after the study was over. Similar results have been found from studies conducted by Emmons and McCullough (2003) and Lyubomirsky et. all. (2005). See also gratitude journal.\n\nRecently (2013), the Greater Good Science Center at the University of California, Berkeley, has been offering awards for dissertation-level research projects with the greatest potential to advance the science and practice of gratitude.\n\nAccording to Cicero, \"Gratitude is not only the greatest of the virtues but the parent of all others.\" Multiple studies have shown the correlation between gratitude and increased wellbeing not only for the individual but for all people involved. The positive psychology movement has embraced these studies and in an effort to increase overall well-being, has begun to make an effort to incorporate exercises to increase gratitude into the movement. Although in the past gratitude has been neglected by psychology, in recent years much progress has been made in studying gratitude and its positive effects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2801004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2801004", "title": "Handle decompositions of 3-manifolds", "text": "Handle decompositions of 3-manifolds\n\nIn mathematics, a handle decomposition of a 3-manifold allows simplification of the original 3-manifold into pieces which are easier to study.\n\nAn important method used to decompose into handlebodies is the Heegaard splitting, which gives us a decomposition in two handlebodies of equal genus.\n\nAs an example: lens spaces are orientable 3-spaces, and allow decomposition into two solid-tori which are genus-one-handlebodies. The genus one non-orientable space is a space which is the union of two solid Klein bottles and corresponds to the twisted product of the 2-sphere and the 1-sphere: formula_1.\n\nEach orientable 3-manifold is the union of exactly two orientable handlebodies; meanwhile, each non-orientable one needs three orientable handlebodies.\n\nThe minimal genus of the glueing boundary determines what is known as the Heegaard genus. For non-orientable spaces an interesting invariant is the tri-genus.\n\n"}
{"id": "39913055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39913055", "title": "Imperial and US customary measurement systems", "text": "Imperial and US customary measurement systems\n\nThe imperial system of measurement and the US customary system of measurement are both derived from an earlier English system of measurement which in turn can be traced back to Ancient Roman units of measurement, and Carolingian and Saxon units of measure.\n\nThe US Customary system of units was developed and used in the United States after the American Revolution, based on a subset of the English units used in the Thirteen Colonies. The Imperial system of units was developed and used in the United Kingdom beginning in 1826, and subsequently used in the rest of the Commonwealth. US Customary units are the predominant system of units in the United States, but the metric system has, to varying degrees, replaced the imperial system in all Commonwealth countries.\n\nMost of the units of measure have been adopted in one way or another since the Norman Conquest (1066). The units of linear measure have changed the least – the yard (which replaced the ell) and the chain were measures derived in England. The foot used by craftsman supplanted the longer foot used in agriculture. The agricultural foot was reduced to of its former size, causing the rod, pole or perch to become (rather than the older 15) agricultural feet. The furlong and the acre, once it became a measure of the size of a piece of land rather than its value, remained relatively unchanged. In the last thousand years, three principal pounds were used in England. The troy pound (5760 grains) was used for precious metals, the apothecaries' pound, (also 5760 grains) was used by pharmacists and the avoirdupois pound (7000 grains) was used for general purposes. The apothecaries and troy pounds are divided into 12 ounces (of 480 grains) while the avoirdupois pound has 16 ounces (of 437.5 grains). The unit of volume, the gallon, has different values in the United States and in the United Kingdom – the US fluid gallon being about 0.83 imperial gallons and the US dry gallon being about 0.97 imperial gallons.\n\nBoth systems of measure were widely used in mechanical engineering, though not in electrical engineering. Some units of measure such as the horsepower or the British thermal unit (BTU) have special names but by and large unit names are generated from their constituent components – for example, pounds per square inch. In contrast, the metric system has a special name for pressure—the pascal.\n\nAfter the United States Declaration of Independence the units of measurement in the United States developed into what is now known as customary units. The United Kingdom overhauled its system of measurement in 1826, when it introduced the imperial system of units. This resulted in the two countries having different gallons. Later in the century, efforts were made to align the definition of the pound and the yard in the two countries by using copies of the standards adopted by the British Parliament in 1855. However, these standards were of poor quality compared with those produced for the Convention of the Metre. In 1960 the two countries agreed to common definitions of the yard and the pound based on definitions of the metre and the kilogram. This change, which amounted to a few parts per million, had little effect in the United Kingdom, but resulted in the United States having two slightly different systems of linear measure – the international system, and the surveyors system.\n\nEnglish units of measure, were derived from a combination of Roman, Carolignian and Saxon units of measure. They were a precursor to both the Imperial system of units (first defined in 1824, to take effect in 1826) and United States customary units which evolved from English Units from 1776 onwards.\n\nThe earliest records of English units of measure involve the weight (and therefore the value) of Saxon coins. The penny introduced by Offa was about 20 grains (1.296 g). Edward the Elder increased the weight of the English penny to 26 grains (1.685 g), thereby aligning it with the penny of Charlemagne. By the time of the Norman Conquest (1066), it had decreased to 24 grains (1.555 g). This value was subsequently called the \"pennyweight\" and formed the basis of the Troy units of weight—the troy ounce used to this day for weighting precious metals. Edward I (1272–1307) broke the link between a coin's value and its weight when he debased the English coinage by introducing a groat (four pence) which weighed of 89 grains rather than the expected 96 grains. The groat was further devalued in the 1350s when its weight was reduced to 72 grains.\nDuring Saxon times land was measured both in terms of its economic value and in terms of its size. The Domesday Book used the hide, an economic unit of measure. In other references the furlong and the rood appear to be units related to ploughing procedures. Of particular interest was the rood which was 15 North German feet in length, the North German foot being equivalent to 335 mm (13.2 inches). Craftsmen, on the other hand used a shorter Roman foot. \nStandardization of weights and measures was a recurring issue for monarchs. In 965 AD, King Edgar decreed \"that only one weight and one measure should pass throughout the King's dominion\". \nIn 1197 Richard I decreed that the measures of corn and pulse, and of wine and ale should be the same throughout all England. The Magna Carta, signed by King John in 1215 extended this to include cloth. Some time between 1266 and 1303 the weights and measures of England were radically revised by a law known as the \"Composition of Yards and Perches\" (\"Compositio ulnarum et perticarum\") often known as the \"Compositio\" for short. This law, attributed to either Henry III or his successor Edward I, instituted a new foot that was exactly the length of the old foot, with corresponding reductions in the size of the yard, ell, inch, and barleycorn. (Furlongs remained the same, but the rod changed from 15 old feet to 16 new feet.) \n\nIn 1324 Edward II systematized units of length by defining the inch as 3 barleycorns, the foot as 12 inches, the yard as 3 feet, the perch as 5 yards, and the acre as an area 4 by 40 perches. Apart from the ell (45 inches or 114.3 cm, which continued to be used in the cloth trade) and the chain (introduced by Edmund Gunter in 1620, and used in land surveying), these units formed the basis of the units of length of the English system of measurement. The units were however redefined many times – during Henry VIII's time standard yards and ells made of brass were manufactured, during Elizabeth I's time these were replaced with standards made of bronze and in 1742, after scientific comparisons showed a variation of up to 0.2% from the mean, a definitive standard yard was proposed (but not manufactured).\n\nDuring the medieval era agricultural products, apart from wool, were mostly sold by volume, with various bushels and gallons being introduced over the years for different commodities. In the early fourteenth century the wool trade traditionally used the avoirdupois system of weights, a process that was formalized by Edward III in 1340. At the same time, the stone, when used to weigh wool, was formalized as being 14 pounds.\n\nDuring the Tudor period, numerous reforms were made to English weights and measures. In 1496 Henry VII ordered that reference copies of the yard, pound and gallon should be made of brass and distributed to specified towns and cities throughout the kingdom. Many weights and measures that had crept into use were banned: in 1527 Henry VIII banned the Tower pound (5400 grains against the 5760 grains of the apothecaries and troy pounds) and the mercantile pound (6750 grains against the 7000 grains of the pound avoirdupois) and in 1592 Elizabeth I ordered the use of the \"statute mile\" (5280 feet against the 5000 feet of the London or Old English mile).\n\nUnder the Act of Union of 1707, Scotland, which had developed its own system of weights and measures independently of England, abandoned them in favour of English weights and measures. The Acts of Union 1800 which united Ireland with Great Britain had less of an effect on weights and measures—Irish weights and measures having been based on the English foot and pound avoirdupois since 1351, though the Irish acre and mile were based on a perch of 7 yards, not yards as in England.\n\nBy the early nineteenth century many commodities had their own set of units, the units of measure for the wool and cloth industries had units of measure specific to those commodities, albeit derived on the pound avoirdupois or the foot while wine and beer used units with the same names but different sizes – the wine gallon being 231 cubic inches and the beer or ale gallon being 282 cubic inches. Agricultural produce was sold by the bushel which was based on yet another gallon – the dry gallon of 268.8 cubic inches. Even though not explicitly permitted by statute, many markets used bushels based on weight rather than volume when selling wheat and barley.\n\nThe British Weights and Measures Act of 1824 repealed all existing British weights and measures legislation, some dating back to the 1300s, and redefined existing units of measure. In particular, a new standard yard and troy pound were manufactured as the standards for length and weight respectively. A new measure, the imperial gallon, which replaced the many gallons in use, was defined as being the volume of 10 pounds of water at 62 °F which, after the authorized experiments, was found to be 277.274 cubic inches. The bushel, which like the gallon, had definitions reflecting the various gallons, was defined as 8 imperial gallons.\n\nThe 1824 Act also introduced some changes to the administration of the standards of weights and measures: previously Parliament had been given the custody of the standards but the act passed this responsibility on to the Exchequer. The act also set up an inspectorate for weights and measures.\n\nThe standard yard and pound were lost in 1834 when a fire partially destroyed the Palace of Westminster. Following a report published in 1841 by a commission new standard yard and pound were manufactured using the best available secondary sources. Unlike the previous standard, the new pound standard was a pound avoirdupois. They were accepted by an Act of Parliament as the standards for length and weight in 1855. Following the debacle over the different gallons that had been adopted by the United States and the United Kingdom thirty years earlier, one of the copies of the standard yard was offered to and accepted by the United States Government.\n\nThe 1835 Weights and Measures Act tidied up a number of shortcomings in the 1825 Act. In response to representations from traders, the stone and the hundredweight were formally defined as being 14 pounds and 112 pounds respectively and the experiment of defining a \"heaped\" measure as outlined in the 1824 Act was abandoned. Not all trades followed the use of the 14 stone—Britten, in 1880 for example, catalogued a number of different values of the stone in various British towns and cities ranging from 4 lb to 26 lb The 1835 Act also restricted the use of Troy measure to precious metals and required that coal be sold by weight and not by volume.\nThe Weights and Measures Act of 1878 overhauled the inspection regime of weights and measures used in trade. The act also reaffirmed the use of the brass standard yard and platinum standard pound as the standards for use in the United Kingdom, reaffirmed the use of apothecaries measures in the pharmaceutical industry, reaffirmed the 1824 definition of the gallon, removed the Troy pound from the list of legal units of measure, added the fathom to the list of legal units and fixed the ratio of metric to imperial units at one metre being equal to 39.3708 inches and one kilogram being equal to 15432.3487 grains (1 lb = 0.453592654 kg). Subsequent to the passing of the act, the volume of the gallon which had been defined as being the volume of 10 lb distilled water at was remeasured and set at 277.42 cubic inches though HM Customs and Excise continued to use the 1824 definition for excise purposes.\nThe Weights and Measures Act of 1878 effectively prohibited the use of metric weights for trade, the United Kingdom having declined to sign the Convention of the Metre three years previously. The standard imperial yard was not stable – in 1947 its rate of shrinkage was quantified and found to be one part per million every 23 years. In April 1884 HJ Chaney, Warden of Standards in London unofficially contacted the BIPM (custodians of the standard metre) inquiring whether the BIPM would calibrate some metre standards that had been manufactured in the United Kingdom. Broch, director of the BIPM replied that he was not authorised to perform any such calibrations for non-member states. On 17 September 1884, the British Government signed the convention on behalf of the United Kingdom. The Weights and Measures Act of 1897 authorized the use of metric units for trade; a list of metric to imperial equivalents being published the following year.\n\nUnder the Weights and Measures Act of 1824 custody of the standard yard and pound and custody of the administration of weights and measures was entrusted to the Exchequer but verification was administered locally. The 1835 Act formally described the office and duties of Inspectors of Weights and Measures and required every borough to appoint such officers and the 1866 Act passed responsibility for weights and measures to the Board of Trade. In 1900 the Board of Trade established the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) to provide laboratory facilities for weights and measures.\n\nAfter the passage of the 1897 Act, weights and measures in the United Kingdom remained relatively unchanged until after the Second World War. By the middle of the century the difference of 2 parts per million between the British and US standard yards was causing problems—in 1900 a tolerance of 10 parts per million was adequate for science, but by 1950 this tolerance had shrunk to 0.25 parts per million. In 1960 representatives from the NPL and other national laboratories from the United States and Commonwealth agreed to redefine the yard as being exactly 0.9144 metres, an action that was ratified by the British Government as part of the 1963 Weights and Measures Act.\nMetrication in the United Kingdom began in the mid-1960s. Initially this metrication was voluntary and by 1985 many traditional and imperial units of measure had been voluntarily removed from use in the retail trade. The Weights and Measures Act of 1985 formalized their removal for use in trade, though imperial units were retained for use on road signs and the most common imperial weights such as the foot, inch, pound, ounce, gallon and pint continued to be used in the retail trade for the sale of loose goods or goods measured or weighed in front of the customer. Since 1 January 2000 it has been unlawful to use imperial units for weights and measures in retail trade in the United Kingdom except as supplementary units or for the sale of draught beer and cider by the pint or milk that is sold in returnable containers.\n\nWhen colonies attained dominion status, they also attained the right to control their own systems of weights and measures. Many adopted the imperial system of units with local variations. India and Hong Kong supplemented the imperial system of units with their own indigenous units of measure, parts of Canada and South Africa included land survey units of measure from earlier colonial masters in their systems of measure while many territories used only a subset of the units used in the United Kingdom—in particular the stone, quarter and cental were not catalogued in, amongst others, Australian, Canadian and Indian legislation. Furthermore, Canada aligned her ton with US measures by cataloguing the ton of 2000 lb as being legal for trade, but kept the imperial gallon.\n\nThe standardization of the yard in 1960 required not only agreement between the United States and the United Kingdom, but also of Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa, all of whom had their own standards laboratories.\n\nPrior to their declaration of independence in 1776, the thirteen colonies that were to become the United States used the English system of measurement. The Articles of Confederation which predated the Constitution gave the central government \"the sole and exclusive right and power of...fixing the Standard of Weights and Measures throughout the United States.\" Subsequent to the formation of the United States, the Constitution reaffirmed the right of Congress to \"fix the Standard of Weights and Measures\" but reserved the right to regulate commerce and weights and measures to the individual states.\n\nDuring the First Congress of the United States in 1789, Thomas Jefferson was detailed to draw up a plan for the currency and weights of measures that would be used in the new republic. In his response in 1790 he noted that the existing system of measure was sound but that control of the base artefact was not under the control of the United States. His report suggested a means of manufacturing a local standard and also left the way open for an adoption of a decimal-based system should this be appropriate. In the event, the existing standards were retained.\nFor many years no action was taken at the federal level to ensure harmony in units of measure – the units acquired by the early colonists appeared to serve their purpose. Congress did nothing, but Ferdinand Hassler, Superintendent of the East Coast survey, who in 1790 had met using contacts in his native Switzerland acquired a copy of the [French] \"mètre des Archives\". \nIn 1810 Ferdinand Hassler was dispatched to Europe by the Treasury to acquire measuring instruments and standards.\n\nIn 1827 Albert Gallatin, United States minister at London acquired an \"exact copy\" of the troy pound held by the British Government which in 1828 was adopted as the reference copy of weight in the United States.\n\nIn 1821 John Quincy Adams, then Secretary of State submitted a report based on research commissioned by the Senate in 1817 which recommended against adoption of the metric system. Congress did nothing and in 1832 the Treasury adopted the yard of 36 inches as the unit of length for customs purposes, the avoirdupois pound of 7000 grains as the unit of weight and the gallon of 231 cubic inches (the \"Queen Anne gallon\") and the bushel of 2150.42 cubic inches as the units of volume. Congress did little to promote standards across the United States other than fixing the size of the yard and the gallon. \n\nThroughout the nineteenth century individual states developed their own standards and in particular a variety of bushels based on weight (mass) rather than volume emerged, dependent on both commodity and state. This lack of uniformity crippled inter-state trade and in 1905 the National Bureau of Standards called a meeting of the states to discuss the lack of uniform standards and in many cases, a means of regulatory oversight. A meeting was held the following year and subsequently became an annual gathering known as the National Conference on Weights and Measures (NCWM). In 1915 the conference published its first model standards. The bushel was not fully standardized and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange still (May 2013) uses different bushels for different commodities—a bushel of corn being 56 lb, a bushel of oats 38 lb and a bushel of soybeans 60 lb and a bushel of red winter wheat (both hard and soft) also 60 lb. Other commodities at the exchange are reckoned in pounds, in short tons or in metric tons.\n\nOne of the actions taken by Congress was to permit the use of the metric system in trade (1866), made at the height of the metrication process in Latin America. Other actions were to ratify the Metre Convention in 1875 and under the Mendenhall Order of 1897, to redefine the pound and the yard in terms of the International Prototype Kilogram and the International Prototype Metre respectively.\n\nIn 1901 the administration of weights and measures was handed to a federal agency, the National Bureau of Standards, which in 1988 became the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Inactivity by Congress and the lack of uniformity of weights and measures which were crippling US economic growth in the nineteenth century led to the National Bureau of Standards to call a meeting of states in 1905 which resulted in the setting up of the National Conference on Weights and Measures (NCWM). This organisation is the \"de facto\" controlling body for weights and measures in the United States, though in respect of international relations such as membership of the General Conference on Weights and Measures (an intergovernmental organization) the US Government itself has to take the lead.\n\nDuring the twentieth century the principal change in the customary system of weights and measures was an agreement between NIST and the corresponding bodies in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa and the United Kingdom, signed in 1960, that redefined the yard and the pound in terms of the metre and the kilogram respectively. These new units became known as the international yard and pound. Congress has neither endorsed nor repudiated this action. (See ).\n\nImperial and US customary units have long been used in many branches of engineering. \nTwo of the earliest such units of measure to come into use were the \"horsepower\" and the \"degree Fahrenheit\". The \"horsepower\" was defined by James Watt in 1782 as the power required to raise 33,000 pounds of water through a height of one foot in one minute and the degree Fahrenheit was first defined by Daniel Fahrenheit in about 1713 as being a temperature scale having its lower calibration point (0 °F) at temperature where a supersaturated salt/ice mixture froze and its upper calibration point at body temperature (96 °F). In 1777 the Royal Society, under the chairmanship of Henry Cavendish, proposed the definition of the Fahrenheit scale be modified such that the temperature corresponding to the melting point of ice be 32 °F and the boiling point of water under standard atmospheric conditions be 212 °F.\nThe British thermal unit (Btu) is defined as the heat needed to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit. It was in use before 1859 as a unit of heat based on imperial units rather than the metric units used by the French—Clément-Desormes having defined the calorie in terms of the kilogram and degrees centigrade in 1824.\n\nIn 1873 a committee of the British Association for the Advancement of Science under the chairmanship of William Thomson (Lord Kelvin) introduced the concept of a coherence into units of measure and proposed the names dyne and erg as the units of force and work in the CGS system of units. Two years later James Thomson, older brother of William Thomson introduced the term poundal as a coherent unit of force in the Foot–pound–second system (FPS) of measurement. The equivalent FPS unit of work was the foot-poundal.\n\nOther systems for the measurement of dynamic quantities that used imperial and US customary units are the British Gravitational System (BG) proposed by Arthur Mason Worthington and the English Engineering System (EE). Both systems depend on the gravitational acceleration, and use the pound-force as the unit of force but use different approaches when applying Newton's laws of motion. In the BG system, force, rather than mass is a base unit while the slug is a derived unit of inertia (rather than mass). On the other hand, the EE system uses a non-coherent approach and introduce the acceleration due to gravity (\"g\") into its equations. Both these approaches led to slight variations in the meaning of the pound-force (and also of the kilogram force) in different parts of the world. Various countries published standard values that should be used for \"g\" and in 1901 the CGPM published a standard value for \"g\" that should be used in the \"International Service of Weights and Measures\", namely 9.80665 m/s (32.174 ft/s) which is equal to the value of \"g\" at 45° latitude.\n\nNewton's second law in these systems becomes:\n\nFPS is ignored in many engineering courses and textbooks while some, such as Darby only uses EE (alongside SI), having described the BG and EE systems as \"archaic\".\n\nThe standard yard and [Troy] pound were lost in 1834 when a fire partially destroyed the Palace of Westminster. Following a report published in 1841 by a commission new standard yard and pound were manufactured using the best available secondary sources. Unlike the previous standard, the new pound standard, made of platinum, was a pound avoirdupois. The new yard, slightly longer than a yard to prevent wear as was experienced with the \"mètre des Archives\", was made of brass and had two gold plugs close to its end. Scratch marks on the plugs denoted the length of the yard. They were accepted by an Act of Parliament as the standards for length and weight in 1855. Following the debacle over the different gallons that had been adopted by the United States and the United Kingdom thirty years earlier, one of the copies of the standard yard and avoirdupois pound (known in the United States as the \"Mint pound\") was offered to and accepted by the United States Government.\n\nIn the years that followed the passing of the 1878 Act, the standard imperial yard was found to be shrinking at a rate, confirmed in 1950, to be nearly one part per million every 30 years. On the other hand, the international prototype metre, manufactured from a platinum-iridium alloy rather than brass by a British firm, which in 1889 replaced the \"metre des archives\" as the standard for the metre, was found to be more stable than the standard yard. Both the United States and the United Kingdom, as signatories of the Metre Convention, took delivery of copies of both the standard metre and the standard kilogram. The \"Mint pound\" was also found to be of poor workmanship.\n\nIn 1866 the United States Government legalised use of metric units in contract law, defining them in terms of the equivalent customary units to five significant figures which was sufficient for purposes of trade. In 1893, under the Mendenhall Order the United States abandoned the 1855 yard as a standard of length and the \"Mint pound\" as a standard of mass, redefining them in terms of the metre and kilogram using the values of the 1866 legislation. In the United Kingdom fresh comparisons of the imperial and metric standards of length and mass were made and were used in the Weights and Measures Act 1897 to redefine the yard and pound in terms of the metre and kilogram respectively. In addition, the definitions of both the yard and the pound in terms of the artifacts held by the British Government was reaffirmed giving both the yard and the pound two different definitions. The differences between the British and the US yard and pound was of the order of a few parts per million. \n\nBy the end of the Second World War, the standards laboratories of Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa also had their own copies of the pound and the yard. These legal and technical discrepancies, described by McGreevy (pg 290) as being \"unsound\" led to the Commonwealth Science Conference of 1946. proposing that the Commonwealth countries and the United States should all redefine the yard and the pound in terms of an agreed fraction of the metre and kilogram respectively. Agreement was reached by the standards laboratories in 1960 to redefine the yard and the metre as \nThe final digit of the value chosen for the pound was chosen so as to make the number exactly divisible by 7, making the grain exactly .\n\nThis agreement was ratified by the United Kingdom in 1963 while Canada pre-empted the decision by adopting these values in 1951, nine years ahead of the full international agreement. The United States Congress has neither ratified nor repudiated the agreement.\n\nPrior to 1960 the imperial and customary yard and the pound were sufficiently close to each other that for most practical purposes the differences in the sizes of units of length, area, volume and mass could be disregarded, though there were differences in usage - for example, in the United States short road distances are specified in feet while in the United Kingdom they are specified in yards The introduction of the international yard in 1960 caused small but noticeable effects in surveying in the United States which resulted in some states retaining the original definitions of the customary units of measure which are now known as the survey mile, foot, while other states adopted the international foot.\n\nThe definition of units of weight above a pound differed between the customary and the imperial system - the imperial system employed the stone of 14 pounds, the hundredweight of 8 stone and the ton of 2240 pounds (20 hundredweight), while the customary system of units did not employ the stone but has a hundredweight of 100 pounds and a ton of 2000 pounds. In international trade, the ton of 2240 pounds was often referred to as the \"long ton\" and the ton of 2000 pounds as the \"short ton\". When using customary units, it is usual to express body weight in pounds, but when using imperial units, to use stones and pounds.\n\nIn his \"Plan for Establishing Uniformity in the Coinage, Weights, and Measures of the United States\", Thomas Jefferson, then secretary of state, identified 14 different gallons in English statutes varying in size from 224 to 282 cubic inches (3.67 to 4.62 litres). In 1832, in the absence of any direction by Congress, the United States Treasury chose the second smallest gallon, the \"Queen Anne gallon\" of 231 cubic inches (3.785 litres) to be the official gallon in the United States for fiscal purposes. Sixteen US fluid ounces make a US pint (8 pints equals 1 gallon in both customary and imperial systems). During the reform of Weights and measures legislation in the United Kingdom in 1824, old gallons were replaced by the new imperial gallon which was defined to be the volume to 10 pounds of water at 62 °F (17 °C) and determined experimentally to be 277.42 cubic inches (4.546 litres). Twenty imperial fluid ounces make an imperial pint, the imperial fluid ounce being 0.96 US fluid ounces.\n\nThe US Customary system of units makes use of set of dry units of capacity that have a similar set of names to those of liquid capacity, though different volumes - the dry pint having a volume of 33.6 cubic inches (550 ml) against the US fluid pint's volume of 28.875 cubic inches (473 ml) and the imperial pint of 34.68 cubic inches (568 ml). The imperial system of measure does not have an equivalent to the US customary system of \"dry measure\".\n\nIn the international commodities markets, the barrel (, ~159 litres) is used in both London and New York/Chicago for trading in crude oil and the troy ounce (~31.10 grams) for trading in precious metals, otherwise the London markets use metric units and the Chicago Board of Trade uses customary units.\n\nThe tables below catalogue the imperial units of measure that were permitted for use in trade in the United Kingdom on the eve of metrication (1976) and the customary \"units of measurement that have traditionally been used in the United States\". In addition, named units of measure that are used in the engineering industry are also catalogued. Prior to metrication, the units of measure used in the Ireland were the same as those used in the United Kingdom while those used in the British Commonwealth and in South Africa were in most cases a subset of those used in the United Kingdom with, in certain cases, local differences.\n\nUnless otherwise specified, the units of measure quoted below were used in both the United States, the United Kingdom. The SI equivalents are quoted to four significant figures.\n\nIn 1893 the United States fixed the yard at metres, making the yard 0.9144018 metres and 1896 the British authorities fixed the yard as being 0.9143993 metres. At the time the discrepancy of about two parts per million was considered to be insignificant. In 1960, the United Kingdom, United States, Australia, Canada and South Africa standardised their units of length by defining the \"international yard\" as being 0.9144 metres exactly. This change affected land surveyors in the United States and led to the old units being renamed \"survey feet\", \"survey miles\" etc. However the introduction of the metric-based Ordnance Survey National Grid Surveyors in the United Kingdom in 1938 meant that British surveyors were unaffected by the change.\nNotes\n\nNotes\nThe introduction of the international yard in 1960 had no effect on British measurements of area, however US measurements of land area, as opposed to other measurements of area (such as pounds per \"square inch\") continued to be based on the US statute yard.\nNotes\n\nNotes\nNotes\n\nNotes\n\nSeveral of the units of liquid volume or capacity have similar names, but have different volumes – and in the case of fluid ounces and pints, different relations. In addition the definitions of the imperial and US gallons are based on different concepts – the imperial gallon is defined in terms of the volume occupied by a specified mass of water, while the US gallon is specified in terms of cubic linear measure.\n\nNotes \n\nNotes \n\nUnits of weight in both the imperial and US customary system always used the same standard, though differences in multiples of the avoirdupois pound developed in the nineteenth century. Both systems used the three different scales – the avoirdupois system for general use, the troy system for precious metals and the apothecaries system in the pharmacy industry. The term \"weight\" and \"mass\" are used interchangeably in the imperial and US customary systems, though since the linking of the pound to the kilogram in 19xx, the pound technically became a mass, not a weight.\n\nNotes\nNotes\n\nApothecaries weights were used in the pharmaceutical industry and have remained almost unchanged since the Middle Ages – the Apothecaries pound and ounce being the same as the Troy pound and ounce, but each system having different sub-units. In the United Kingdom, these units are of historic interest only, having been replaced by metric units in 1970.\n\nThe names of most derived units of measure in the imperial and US customary systems are concatenations of the constituent parts of the unit of measure, for example the unit of pressure is the \"pounds [force] per square inch\". Apart from the poundal, most of the named units of measure are non-coherent, but were adopted due to traditional working practice.\n\nIn addition to those catalogued above, there are literally hundreds of other units of measure in both the imperial and the US customary system of measurement – many are specific to a particular industry of application. Such units could, in theory, be replaced by general units of the same dimension, for example the barrel (42 US gallons, 34.97 imperial gallons or 159.0 litres) used in the oil industry has the dimension of volume and could be replaced by the gallon, cubic metre or litre.\n\nThe definitions of potential difference (volt), electric current (ampere), electrical resistance (ohm) were defined in terms of metric units, international agreement having been reached at a series of IEC Congress in Chicago between 1881 and 1906 when the electrical industry was in its infancy. At that time the metric system had become established in continental Europe while in the United Kingdom metrication was an active issue. Similarly, the units of measurement used in the radiological industry were defined in terms of metric units, agreement first having been reached at the second International Congress of Radiology at Stockholm (1928).\n\nSince its inception, the metric system has displaced the traditional system of units in many countries. In the 1960s a metrication program was initiated in most English-speaking countries, resulting in either the partial or total displacement of the imperial system or the US customary system of measure in those countries. The current status of imperial and US customary units, as summarised by NIST, is that \"the SI metric system is now the official system of units in the United Kingdom, while the customary units are still predominantly used in the United States\".\n\nThe situation is however not as clear-cut as this. In the United States, for example, the metric system is the predominant system of measure in certain fields such as automobile manufacture even though customary units are used in aircraft manufacture. In the United Kingdom, metric units are required for almost all regulated use of units of measure except for a few specifically exempt areas such as road signs, speedometers and draught beer. The NIST statement is also incomplete as it made no mention of metrication in the Commonwealth countries of Australia, India, New Zealand or South Africa where metrication is all but complete, nor did it mention the status of metrication in Canada where the imperial system has been displaced for many areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "28929760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28929760", "title": "Imran Channa", "text": "Imran Channa\n\nImran Channa (, is a contemporary visual artist based in Lahore, Pakistan. He works in multiple media, including painting, drawing, sculpture, digital art and interactive art. He has been exhibiting nationally and internationally. He teaches at the National College of Arts, Lahore. He lives and works in Lahore.\n\nImran Channa was born in Shikarpur, Sindh. After completing his initial education in Shikarpur . He moved to Hyderabad to explore art, where he met with artist, art teacher and writer Fatah Halepoto. He worked for 3 years in Hyderabad under the influence of his teacher . He graduated in the Department of Fine Arts at and post-graduated in MA Hons. Visual Arts programme at National College of Arts, Lahore.\n\nVarious critics and publications have spoken of the direction and impact of Channa's work. Asim Akhtar in \"Pause Play\" wrote, \"There is a revolutionary lexicography behind Channa’s visual vocabulary that is deeply rooted in the syntax and morphology of that visual modernity, and without it one will never learn how to read his pictures. His art is the very vision of an alterity that sets the political tyranny of language off balance – and with that liberates those who have gathered around the festive occasion of his art.\" \nIn \"Starring: The Artist\"', Quddus Mirza said, \"The interplay of obvious and unusualness makes his work, interesting and intriguing.\"\nReflecting on the focus of his work and its impact, Yee-Wan Koon in \"MUSE\" wrote, \"Imran Channa's work is based on historical perspectives. He questions the authenticity of history, which is constructed and manipulated by the power.\"\nFind The Real Jinnah, work exhibited nationally and internationally many time in Redo Pakistan](Lahore, Karachi, London) \"Rising Tide\", Mohatta Palace Karachi, \"creating common wealth\"Creating Common Wealth India, \"between black and white\" canvas gallery karachi.\" The art critic Maheen Bashir Adam Jee wrote in the article \"messages for The Discerning\" that: \"Channa’s work, ‘Making of the History,’ defies the norm with its very title. The deliberate inclusion of “the” in the title challenges more than just grammar. Channa questions the veracity of the Badshahnama – a tale of kings, commissioned by Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan – and the practice of getting one’s history written under one’s own auspices. The authenticity of Badshahnama’s account, on the making of the Taj Mahal, was first called into question by historian P. N. Oak, who asserted that the Taj Mahal was, in fact, an ancient Hindu temple of Lord Shiva, usurped for Queen Mumtaz Mahal.\"\n\n\n2013- Solo Project with XVA gallery at Art Basel HK 2013. Hong Kong.\n\n2012, “Lik Likoti” Solo show at Canvas Gallery Karachi.\n2011, “The Memory is The Message” solo show at XVA gallery Dubai, UAE.\n\n2011, “After All” group show curated by Quddus Mirza at Royat gallery.\n\n2011. Contemporary Shahnama, millennium painting Exhibition traveling show at NCA in Lahore.\n\n2011, Common Threads: Contemporary Art from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Iran and Pakistan. Xerxes gallery with NMart gallery at the Bastakiya at the Heritage House Gallery. Duabi.\n\n2010: The sovereign Asian Art prize finalist exhibition, ARTSPACE at Helutrans, Singapore.\n2010: The Rising Tide, Group Show, curated by Naiza khan at Mohatta Palace Karachi. \n\n2010: Slick 2010. Art fair, Paris.\n\n2010: Creating Common wealth, Group show Curated by Ragini Gallery, New Delhi India. \n\n2010: \"Fatah Je Asay Pasay\" Group show (Green Cardamom) at V.M. Art Gallery Karachi, Sindh Museum Hyderabad \n\n2010: \"Badshahnama\" Solo show at Tmproject Gallery Geneva, Switzerland. \n\n2010: \"Structures Within An Intervention\" - A Group Show curated by Meenakshi Thirukode at The Guild Art Gallery, New York, USA.\n\n2010: \"Making of The History\" Two-person show at Canvas Gallery Karachi. \n\n2010: \"The Havelian Express\" 3 person show at CAIS Gallery Hong Kong. \n\n2009: \"Tradition & Tension\" 4 person show at Art Scene Gallery Karachi \n\n2009: \"Patrons Of \"Oh My God! I Can Buy Art!\" Group show at Grey Noise gallery Lahore. \n\n2009: Redo Pakistan. Deptford X festival London \n\n2009: Redo Pakistan Group show in the form of symposium at Alhamra art council Lahore\n\n2009: \"Between Black & White\" 4 person show at Canvas Gallery Karachi. \n\n2009: \"Redo Pakistan\" a traveling show (Karachi, Lahore, Pakistan, England, UK, Dhaka, Bangladesh) arranged by Other Asias, a London-based organization at Shanakhit Festival 2009 Karachi.\n\n2009: \"Starring: The Artist\" Group show at Indus Valley Gallery Karachi\n\n2008: Degree show at Zahoor-ul-Akhalq Gallery National College of Arts.\n\n2008: Young artist exhibition at Alhmara Art Council Lahore.\n\n2007: “Dropping Tears Together” an anokha laadla collective live art\nperformance at Alhamra\nArt Council Lahore. \n\n2006: “Places Real and Imagined\" Group Exhibition at Alhamra Art\nGallery, Lahore. \n\n2005: “Art Aid” Group Exhibition at Convention Center Islamabad.\n\n2005: “Voices” Group Exhibition by Pakistan Development Forum\nIslamabad.\n\n2005: “Emerging Talent” Group Exhibition at V.M. Art Gallery\nKarachi.\n\n2005: \"Memories\" Degree Show at National College of Arts Lahore.\n\n2003: Group Exhibition of water colors at Art Scene Gallery, Lahore.\n\n2002: Group Exhibition of Printmaking at Zahoor-ul-Akhlaq Gallery\nLahore.\n"}
{"id": "691626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=691626", "title": "Irrationality", "text": "Irrationality\n\nIrrationality is cognition, thinking, talking, or acting without inclusion of rationality. It is more specifically described as an action or opinion given through inadequate use of reason, or through emotional distress or cognitive deficiency. The term is used, usually pejoratively, to describe thinking and actions that are, or appear to be, less useful, or more illogical than other more rational alternatives.\n\nIrrational behaviors of individuals include taking offense or becoming angry about a situation that has not yet occurred, expressing emotions exaggeratedly (such as crying hysterically), maintaining unrealistic expectations, engaging in irresponsible conduct such as problem intoxication, disorganization, and falling victim to confidence tricks. People with a mental illness like schizophrenia may exhibit irrational paranoia.\n\nThese more contemporary normative conceptions of what constitutes a manifestation of irrationality are difficult to demonstrate empirically because it is not clear by whose standards we are to judge the behavior rational or irrational.\n\nThe study of irrational behavior is of interest in fields such as psychology, cognitive science, economics, game theory, and evolutionary psychology, as well as of practical interest to the practitioners of advertising and propaganda.\n\nTheories of irrational behavior include:\n\nFactors which affect rational behavior include:\n\nIrrationality is not always viewed as a negative. Dada Surrealist art movements embraced irrationality as a means to \"reject reason and logic\". André Breton, for example, argued for a rejection of pure logic and reason which are seen as responsible for many contemporary social problems.\n\nIn science fiction literature, the progress of pure rationality is viewed as a quality which may lead civilization ultimately toward a scientific future dependent on technology. Irrationality in this case, is a positive factor which helps to balance excessive reason.\n\nIn psychology, excessive rationality without creativity may be viewed as a form of self-control and protection. Certain problems, such as death and loss, may have no rational solution when they are being experienced. We may seek logical explanations for such events, when in fact the proper emotional response is grief. Irrationality is thus a means of freeing the mind toward purely imaginative solutions, to break out of historic patterns of dependence into new patterns that allow one to move on.\n\n\"Irrationalist\" is a wide term. It may be applied to mean \"one without rationality\", for their beliefs or ideas. Or, more precisely, it may mean someone who openly rejects some aspect of rationalism, variously defined. It can be seen as either a negative quality, used pejoratively, or a positive quality: For example, religious faith may variably be seen by some as a virtue which doesn't need to be rational (see fideism), while others (even of the same religious tradition) may view their faiths as being rational, favoring rationalism.\n\nAlso, it might be considered irrationalist to gamble or buy a lottery ticket, on the basis that the expected value is negative.\n\nIrrational thought was seen in Europe as part of the reaction against Continental rationalism. For example, Johann Georg Hamann is sometimes classified as an irrationalist.\n\nAncient Greek philosophy established a fundamental differentiation between logical \"true\" assumptions of the universe and irrational \"false\" statements or mere opinions based on emotion or sensorial experience. The German cultural historian Silvio Vietta has shown that Greek philosophy thus founded a dual cultural system based on rationality as the domain of philosophy and science versus \"irrational\" emotion and sensuality as domains of literature and art. Since the irrational emotions as stirred up in literature threaten the rationality of human beings, in \"The Republic\" Plato expelled poets from the state.\n\nIn the later history of philosophy this opposition of rationality and the irrational was renewed as a methodological differentiation by Descartes, but reversed by Pascal in his statement: “Le coeur a ses raisons, que la raison ne connait point” (“The heart has its reasons which reason does not know”). Pascal thus asserted a specific rationality of the \"irrational\" emotions. The philosophy of sensualism (John Locke, among others) underlined the importance of the senses as the source of human perception and cognition.\n\nThe 19th-century German philosopher Julius Bahnsen asserted that all thought processes, desires and actions ultimately led to irresolvable contradictions which stem from the inherent irrationality of being. Years earlier, Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling had theorized that despite some traces of rationality in the world, the \"dark ground\" of being itself rested in an irrational will that could not be explained, only described in an apophatic manner. Arthur Schopenhauer picked up on this idea and completely fleshed out the concept of an irrational will as a cause of existence, by founding his entire metaphysics and explaining the variety of physical phenomena precisely with this underlying, unconscious and dynamic notion of will.\n\nSøren Kierkegaard gave some remit to irrationality in his \"Concluding Scientific Postscript to the Philosophical Fragments\", where he claimed that 'Subjectivity is Truth'. Rather than allowing reason to do our choosing for us, Kierkegaard argued that irrational leaps of faith could be more useful, as they were more authentic (although, he never used the word 'authentic'), and thus gave more meaning to life. Objectivity, like reason, was opposed to subjectivity, and thus could not be said to give any meaning to anyone's life. Although he never dismissed rationality in its entirety, Kierkegaard argued that we could not allow rationality to make our decisions for us. In this, and to some degree, he offers a vindication of irrationality.\n\nMuch subject matter in literature can be seen as an expression of human longing for the irrational. The Romantics valued irrationality over what they perceived as the sterile, calculating and emotionless philosophy which they thought to have been brought about by the Age of Enlightenment and the Industrial Revolution.\nThe Dadaists and Surrealists later used irrationality as a basis for their art. The disregard of reason and preference for dream states in Surrealism was an exaltation of the irrational and the rejection of logic.\n\nMythology nearly always incorporates elements of fantasy and the supernatural; however myths are largely accepted by the societies that create them, and only come to be seen as irrational through the spyglass of time and by other cultures. But though mythology serves as a way to rationalize the universe in symbolic and often anthropomorphic ways, a pre-rational and irrational way of thinking can be seen as tacitly valued in mythology's supremacy of the imagination, where rationality as a philosophical method has not been developed.\n\nOn the other side the irrational is often depicted from a rational point of view in all types of literature, provoking amusement, contempt, disgust, hatred, awe, and many other reactions.\n\nThe term \"irrational\" is often used in psychotherapy and the concept of irrationality is especially known in rational emotive behavior therapy originated and developed by American psychologist Albert Ellis. In this approach, the term \"irrational\" is used in a slightly different way than in general. Here irrationality is defined as the tendency and leaning that humans have to act, emote and think in ways that are inflexible, unrealistic, absolutist and most importantly self-defeating and socially defeating and destructive.\n\nOne psychotherapist describes the overlapping of irrationality and psychotherapy: I didn't understand enough about them [patients] or how they thought even to begin to reach them. Listening to their stories, I wanted to offer advice. Why don't you escape from such a relationship? Leave your home, don't submit! Seek out others, expect more for yourself, I wanted to say. But I came to realize that they could not really hear me. They heard my words, perhaps even agreed with my recommendations. They had brain compartments to which new information, my suggestions for example, had easy access. But habits, learned emotional responses, and remembered expectations were buried deep in their brains that dictated the course of their lives. These patients, like victims of encephalitis, could not be awakened.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14693633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14693633", "title": "Jankers", "text": "Jankers\n\nIn the British Armed Services, jankers or Restrictions of Privileges is an official punishment for a minor breach of discipline, as opposed to the more severe punishment of \"detention\" which would be given for a man committing a more serious or criminal offence. To be \"on jankers\" meant the serviceman or woman had been put on a charge by a non-commissioned officer (NCO) or occasionally a commissioned officer (referred to in service slang as \"being put on a fizzer\"), and so having his alleged offence entered on a Charge Report (Army or RAF Form No. 252). After appearing before an officer, the punishment might be ordered by the officer only after he has heard the evidence and had considered any mitigating factors.\n\n\"Jankers\" is a much used vernacular term. The official Army terminology for jankers was \"CB\" which means \"Confined to Barracks\" or in the RAF \"CC\" \"Confined to Camp\" but later during the epoch of National Service the term was changed to \"ROP\" or \"Restrictions of Privileges\" in both Services.\n\nThe term \"jankers\" is today very occasionally used jokingly in civilian life, such as in journalism to mean the punishment of minor infringements by the imposition of tedious duties.\n\nAs an alternative to ordering jankers, the officer may alternatively decide to \"\"dismiss the charge\", if he considered the man had no case to answer. Or the officer may simply \"admonish\"\" him or her if he decided the alleged breach of discipline had occurred but was just not serious enough to warrant jankers. For some offences, like drunkenness, the officer might alternatively impose a fine instead of jankers.\n\nWhen jankers is \"awarded\" by the officer taking the charge, the officer will also specify the number of days the jankers would last for up to a maximum of 14 days.\n\nThe officer's decision, in this regard, is dependent upon his judgement of the seriousness, or otherwise, of the offence(s) committed and also whether it is a first offence or there were previous similar breaches of discipline already recorded on the man's or woman's conduct sheet e.g. \"Jankers\" is a familiar part of life during Regular and National Service in both the British Army and the Royal Air Force.\n\nThe kinds of offences which, most typically, resulted in a man being put on jankers, have always been fairly minor breaches of discipline, most commonly being AWOL, e.g. returning to base slightly late after leave on a weekend pass. Other common offences, often resulting in a spell of jankers, were being caught still in bed after reveille, being drunk, being deemed \"scruffy\" when in uniform such as boots or brasses not gleaming satisfactorily, performing some minor duty lazily or carelessly, failing to comply correctly with some order or regulation, failing to salute an officer correctly or some other similar mistake, being late for some duty, being untidy or lazy in his barrack room, such as not sweeping his bed space properly or having dust on his locker, making a sloppy bedpack, or else not being up to the required standard of smartness on parade or on a kit inspection.\n\nIn many such cases, another officer might have ordered an NCO to \"put that man on a Charge\" when the breach of discipline or mistake was originally observed, and the form 252 would then be signed by the NCO. The more severe punishment of \"detention\" was given for offences which might be considered as criminal in a civil court, such as theft or violence against another person, or insubordination. Detention could only be given to a soldier or airman by the Commanding Officer, usually somebody of the Army rank of Colonel or RAF rank of Group Captain or by a convened Court Martial Board. Jankers could be given by a less senior officer, most typically a Captain or Flight Lieutenant.\n\nAlthough what being on jankers involved has varied between different bases, different Services and over time, typically, whilst on jankers, the soldier or airmen was subjected to several punishment parades and inspections each day in different forms of dress, starting with working clothes fatigues half an hour after reveille, where he paraded outside the guardhouse for inspection by the Orderly Officer. After inspection, the offender is sent to perform a variety of tasks, often menial, before breakfast. After lunch, the man has to report again to the guardroom for inspection, and is then assigned unpleasant work, known as \"fatigues\", until shortly before he must attend the afternoon's muster parade. After tea, he parades again at the guardhouse, this time in battledress and in battle order, where he is rigorously inspected. Any criticism of his turnout or equipment can result in another 'charge' or 'fizzer.' The final parade of the day was at 22.00 hours, and in best Battle Dress, best boots, sharply and cleanly turned out, and with every piece of equipment provided by the Army. After inspection, the soldier could then return to barracks, prepare his kit for tomorrow's parades, and then get to bed for some rest.\n\nThe theory was that the whole punishment made the offender's daily life unpleasant, having to get up extremely early, then rushing about miserable, often having the mickey taken out of him by his mates and perhaps feeling humiliated. So he was thereby motivated never to repeat in future, the mistake or slackness that got him put on the charge in the first place. Being put on jankers was never considered an indication of bad character in the Services, but particularly in the days of conscription, rather more as normal Armed Forces discipline likely to be experienced by the majority of ratings at some time or other while in the Forces.\n\nBritish TV classic comedies, such as \"It Ain't Half Hot Mum\" and \"Get Some In!\" and full length cinema films of that epoch like \"Privates Progress\" and \"Carry on Sergeant\" habitually made fun of jankers, as have memoirs of life in the armed services. For example in the first episode of \"It Ain't Half Hot Mum\" Gunner Graham was put on \"jankers\" (painting stones) by the Sergeant Major. In Last of the Summer Wine, Smiler once described that working for Nora Batty was like being in the Army again, and always on Jankers.\n"}
{"id": "331597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331597", "title": "Kuratowski closure axioms", "text": "Kuratowski closure axioms\n\nIn topology and related branches of mathematics, the Kuratowski closure axioms are a set of axioms that can be used to define a topological structure on a set. They are equivalent to the more commonly used open set definition. They were first introduced by Kazimierz Kuratowski.\n\nA similar set of axioms can be used to define a topological structure using only the dual notion of interior operator.\n\nLet formula_1 be a set and formula_2 its power set.\nA Kuratowski Closure Operator is an assignment formula_3 with the following properties:\n\nIf the last axiom, idempotence, is omitted, then the axioms define a preclosure operator.\n\nA consequence of the third axiom is: formula_8 (Preservation of Inclusion).\n\nThe four Kuratowski closure axioms can be replaced by a single condition, namely,\n\nConstruction\nA closure operator naturally induces a topology as follows:\nA subset formula_10 is called closed if and only if formula_11.\n\nEmpty Set and Entire Space are closed:\nBy extensitivity, formula_12 and since closure maps the power set of formula_1 into itself (that is, the image of any subset is a subset of formula_1), formula_15 we have formula_16. Thus formula_17 is closed.\nThe preservation of nullary unions states that formula_4. Thus formula_19 is closed.\n\nArbitrary intersections of closed sets are closed:\nLet formula_20 be an arbitrary set of indices and formula_21 closed for every formula_22.\nBy extensitivity, formula_23\nAlso, by preservation of inclusions, formula_24\nTherefore, formula_25. Thus formula_26 is closed.\n\nFinite unions of closed sets are closed:\nLet formula_20 be a finite set of indices and let formula_21 be closed for every formula_29.\nFrom the preservation of binary unions and using induction we have formula_30. Thus formula_31 is closed.\n\nIn any induced topology (relative to the subset \"A\") the closed sets induce a new closure operator that is just the original closure operator restricted to \"A\": formula_32\n\nCloseness\nA point formula_33 is close to a subset formula_34 iff formula_35.\n\nContinuity\nA function formula_36 is continuous at a point formula_33 iff formula_38.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7343965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7343965", "title": "Language tax", "text": "Language tax\n\nThe language tax is an economic concept proposed by the Belgian economist Philippe Van Parijs. It is intended to compensate countries with a less widespread language for their expenses for teaching and translation.\n\nVan Parijs points out that Jonathan Pool had proposed this kind of taxation in 1991 but criticizes Pool's proposal to distribute the cost of language learning on a per capita basis.\n\nAn analogous concept is found in the work of the Swiss economist François Grin, who argues that such countries are implicitly paying an \"impôt linguistique\" (literally also meaning \"language tax\") to countries with a \"strong\" language. In a similar sense, the Italian Radical Party speaks of a \"tassa inglese\" (\"English tax\").\n\n"}
{"id": "8932322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8932322", "title": "Legal systems in Asia", "text": "Legal systems in Asia\n\nLaw in Asia is undergoing rapid change and modernisation, especially given the economic growth in China and India. Asian countries share a substantial heritage with European law, whilst keeping their own distinct identity.\n\nAncient China and ancient India had historically independent schools of legal theory and practice such as the \"Laws of Manu\" or the \"Arthashastra\" in India and traditional Chinese law in China. Because Germany was a rising power in the late 19th century, and codified civil law is more 'exportable' than large bodies of common law jurisprudence, the German Civil Code has been highly influential for most oriental legal systems, and forms the basis of civil law in Japan and South Korea. In China, the German Civil Code was introduced in the later years of the Qing Dynasty and formed the basis of the law of the Republic of China which remains in force in Taiwan. The current legal infrastructure in the People's Republic of China reflects influences from the German-based civil law, English-based common law in Hong Kong, Soviet-influenced Socialist law, United States-style banking and securities law, and traditional Chinese law. In India, and other previous members of the Commonwealth, English common law forms the basis of private law.\n\n"}
{"id": "4718632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4718632", "title": "Mental representation", "text": "Mental representation\n\nA mental representation (or cognitive representation), in philosophy of mind, cognitive psychology, neuroscience, and cognitive science, is a hypothetical internal cognitive symbol that represents external reality, or else a mental process that makes use of such a symbol: \"a formal system for making explicit certain entities or types of information, together with a specification of how the system does this\".\n\nMental representation is the mental imagery of things that are not actually present to the senses. In contemporary philosophy, specifically in fields of metaphysics such as philosophy of mind and ontology, a mental representation is one of the prevailing ways of explaining and describing the nature of ideas and concepts.\n\nMental representations (or mental imagery) enable representing things that have never been experienced as well as things that do not exist. Think of yourself traveling to a place you have never visited before, or having a third arm. These things have either never happened or are impossible and do not exist, yet our brain and mental imagery allows us to imagine them. Although visual imagery is more likely to be recalled, mental imagery may involve representations in any of the sensory modalities, such as hearing, smell, or taste. Stephen Kosslyn proposes that images are used to help solve certain types of problems. We are able to visualize the objects in question and mentally represent the images to solve it.\n\nMental representations also allow people to experience things right in front of them—though the process of how the brain interprets the representational content is debated.\n\nRepresentationalism (also known as indirect realism) is the view that representations are the main way we access external reality. Another major prevailing philosophical theory posits that concepts are entirely abstract objects.\n\nThe representational theory of mind attempts to explain the nature of ideas, concepts and other mental content in contemporary philosophy of mind, cognitive science and experimental psychology. In contrast to theories of naive or direct realism, the representational theory of mind postulates the actual existence of mental representations which act as intermediaries between the observing subject and the objects, processes or other entities observed in the external world. These intermediaries stand for or represent to the mind the objects of that world.\n\nFor example, when someone arrives at the belief that his or her floor needs sweeping, the representational theory of mind states that he or she forms a mental representation that represents the floor and its state of cleanliness.\n\nThe original or \"classical\" representational theory probably can be traced back to Thomas Hobbes and was a dominant theme in classical empiricism in general. According to this version of the theory, the mental representations were images (often called \"ideas\") of the objects or states of affairs represented. For modern adherents, such as Jerry Fodor, Steven Pinker and many others, the representational system consists rather of an internal language of thought (i.e., mentalese). The contents of thoughts are represented in symbolic structures (the formulas of Mentalese) which, analogously to natural languages but on a much more abstract level, possess a syntax and semantics very much like those of natural languages. For the Spanish logician and cognitive scientist Luis M. Augusto, at this abstract, formal level, the syntax of thought is the set of symbol rules (i.e., operations, processes, etc. on and with symbol structures) and the semantics of thought is the set of symbol structures (concepts and propositions). Content (i.e., thought) emerges from the meaningful co-occurrence of both sets of symbols. For instance, \"8 x 9\" is a meaningful co-occurrence, whereas \"CAT x §\" is not; \"x\" is a symbol rule called for by symbol structures such as \"8\" and \"9\", but not by \"CAT\" and \"§\".\n\nThere are two types of representationalism, strong and weak. Strong representationalism attempts to reduce phenomenal character to intentional content. On the other hand, weak representationalism claims only that phenomenal character supervenes on intentional content. Strong representationalism aims to provide a theory about the nature of phenomenal character, and offers a solution to the hard problem of consciousness. In contrast to this, weak representationalism does not aim to provide a theory of consciousness, nor does it offer a solution to the hard problem of consciousness.\n\nStrong representationalism can be further broken down into restricted and unrestricted versions. The restricted version deals only with certain kinds of phenomenal states e.g. visual perception. Most representationalists endorse an unrestricted version of representationalism. According to the unrestricted version, for any state with phenomenal character that state’s phenomenal character reduces to its intentional content. Only this unrestricted version of representationalism is able to provide a general theory about the nature of phenomenal character, as well as offer a potential solution to the hard problem of consciousness. The successful reduction of the phenomenal character of a state to its intentional content would provide a solution to the hard problem of consciousness once a physicalist account of intentionality is worked out.\n\nWhen arguing against the unrestricted version of representationalism people will often bring up phenomenal mental states that appear to lack intentional content. The unrestricted version seeks to account for all phenomenal states. Thus, for it to be true, all states with phenomenal character must have intentional content to which that character is reduced. Phenomenal states without intentional content therefore serve as a counterexample to the unrestricted version. If the state has no intentional content its phenomenal character will not be reducible to that state’s intentional content, for it has none to begin with.\n\nA common example of this kind of state are moods. Moods are states with phenomenal character that are generally thought to not be directed at anything in particular. Moods are thought to lack directedness, unlike emotions, which are typically thought to be directed at particular things e.g. you are mad \"at\" your sibling, you are afraid \"of\" a dangerous animal. People conclude that because moods are undirected they are also nonintentional i.e. they lack intentionality or aboutness. Because they are not directed at anything they are not about anything. Because they lack intentionality they will lack any intentional content. Lacking intentional content their phenomenal character will not be reducible to intentional content, refuting the representational doctrine.\n\nThough emotions are typically considered as having directedness and intentionality this idea has also been called into question. One might point to emotions a person all of a sudden experiences that do not appear to be directed at or about anything in particular. Emotions elicited by listening to music are another potential example of undirected, nonintentional emotions. Emotions aroused in this way do not seem to necessarily be about anything, including the music that arouses them.\n\nIn response to this objection a proponent of representationalism might reject the undirected nonintentionality of moods, and attempt to identify some intentional content they might plausibly be thought to possess. The proponent of representationalism might also reject the narrow conception of intentionality as being directed at a particular thing, arguing instead for a broader kind of intentionality.\n\nThere are three alternative kinds of directedness/intentionality one might posit for moods. \nIn the case of outward directedness moods might be directed at either the world as a whole, a changing series of objects in the world, or unbound emotion properties projected by people onto things in the world. In the case of inward directedness moods are directed at the overall state of a person’s body. In the case of hybrid directedness moods are directed at some combination of inward and outward things.\n\nEven if one can identify some possible intentional content for moods we might still question whether that content is able to sufficiently capture the phenomenal character of the mood states they are a part of. Amy Kind contends that in the case of all the previously mentioned kinds of directedness (outward, inward, and hybrid) the intentional content supplied to the mood state is not capable of sufficiently capturing the phenomenal aspects of the mood states. In the case of inward directedness, the phenomenology of the mood does not seem tied to the state of one’s body, and even if one’s mood is reflected by the overall state of one’s body that person will not necessarily be aware of it, demonstrating the insufficiency of the intentional content to adequately capture the phenomenal aspects of the mood. In the case of outward directedness, the phenomenology of the mood and its intentional content do not seem to share the corresponding relation they should given that the phenomenal character is supposed to reduce to the intentional content. Hybrid directedness, if it can even get off the ground, faces the same objection.\n\nThere is a wide debate on what kinds of representations exist. There are several philosophers who bring about different aspects of the debate. Such philosophers include Alex Morgan, Gualtiero Piccinini, and Uriah Kriegel—though this is not an exhaustive list.\n\nThere are \"job description\" representations. That is representations that (1) represent something—have intentionality, (2) have a special relation—the represented object does not need to exist, and (3) content plays a causal role in what gets represented: e.g. saying \"hello\" to a friend, giving a glare to an enemy.\n\nStructural representations are also important. These types of representations are basically mental maps that we have in our minds that correspond exactly to those objects in the world (the intentional content). According to Morgan, structural representations are not the same as mental representations—there is nothing mental about them: plants can have structural representations.\n\nThere are also internal representations. These types of representations include those that involve future decisions, episodic memories, or any type of projection into the future.\n\nIn Gualtiero Piccinini's forthcoming work, he discusses topics on natural and nonnatural mental representations. He relies on the natural definition of mental representations given by Grice (1957) where \"P entails that P\". e.g. Those spots mean measles, entails that the patient has measles. Then there are nonnatural representations: \"P does not entail P\". e.g. The 3 rings on the bell of a bus mean the bus is full—the rings on the bell are independent of the fullness of the bus—we could have assigned something else (just as arbitrary) to signify that the bus is full.\n\nThere are also objective and subjective mental representations. Objective representations are closest to tracking theories—where the brain simply tracks what is in the environment. If there is a blue bird outside my window, the objective representation is that of the blue bird. Subjective representations can vary person-to-person. For example, if I am colorblind, that blue bird outside my window will not \"appear\" blue to me since I cannot represent the blueness of blue (i.e. I cannot see the color blue). The relationship between these two types of representation can vary.\n\nEliminativists think that subjective representations don't exist. Reductivists think subjective representations are reducible to objective. Non-reductivists think that subjective representations are real and distinct.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33728253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33728253", "title": "Mindfulness (journal)", "text": "Mindfulness (journal)\n\nMindfulness a is peer-reviewed academic journal on psychology published by Springer Science+Business Media.\n\nThe journal is abstracted or indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2014 impact factor of 3.692.\n"}
{"id": "1085344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1085344", "title": "Motivational salience", "text": "Motivational salience\n\nMotivational salience is a cognitive process and a form of attention that \"motivates\", or propels, an individual's behavior towards or away from a particular object, perceived event, or outcome. Motivational salience regulates the intensity of behaviors that facilitate the attainment of a particular goal, the amount of time and energy that an individual is willing to expend to attain a particular goal, and the amount of risk that an individual is willing to accept while working to attain a particular goal.\n\nMotivational salience is composed of two component processes that are defined by their attractive or aversive effects on an individual's behavior relative to a particular stimulus: \"incentive salience\" and \"aversive salience\". Incentive salience is the attractive form of motivational salience that causes approach behavior, and is associated with operant reinforcement, desirable outcomes, and pleasurable stimuli. Aversive salience is the aversive form of motivational salience that causes avoidance behavior, and is associated with operant punishment, undesirable outcomes, and unpleasant stimuli.\n\nIncentive salience is a cognitive process that confers a \"desire\" or \"want\" attribute, which includes a motivational component, to a rewarding stimulus. \"Reward\" is the attractive and motivational property of a stimulus that induces appetitive behavior – also known as approach behavior – and consummatory behavior. The \"wanting\" of incentive salience differs from \"liking\" in the sense that liking is the pleasure that is immediately gained from the acquisition or consumption of a rewarding stimulus; the \"wanting\" of incentive salience serves a \"motivational magnet\" quality of a rewarding stimulus that makes it a desirable and attractive goal, transforming it from a mere sensory experience into something that commands attention, induces approach, and causes it to be sought out.\n\nIncentive salience is regulated by a number of brain structures, but it is assigned to stimuli by a region of the ventral striatum known as the nucleus accumbens shell. Incentive salience is primarily regulated by dopamine neurotransmission in the mesocorticolimbic projection, but activity in other dopaminergic pathways and hedonic hotspots (e.g., the ventral pallidum) also modulate incentive salience.\n\nThe assignment of incentive salience to stimuli is dysregulated in addiction. Addictive drugs are intrinsically rewarding (i.e., pleasurable) and therefore function as primary positive reinforcers of continued drug use that are assigned incentive salience. During the development of an addiction, the repeated association of otherwise neutral and even non-rewarding stimuli with drug consumption triggers an associative learning process that causes these previously neutral stimuli to act as conditioned positive reinforcers of addictive drug use (i.e., these stimuli start to function as drug cues). As conditioned positive reinforcers of drug use, these previously neutral stimuli are assigned incentive salience (which manifests as a craving) – sometimes at pathologically high levels due to reward sensitization – which can transfer to the primary reinforcer (e.g., the use of an addictive drug) with which it was originally paired. Thus, if an individual remains abstinent from drug use for some time and encounters one of these drug cues, a craving for the associated drug may reappear. For example, anti-drug agencies previously used posters with images of drug paraphernalia as an attempt to show the dangers of drug use. However, such posters are no longer used because of the effects of incentive salience in causing relapse upon sight of the stimuli illustrated in the posters.\n\nIn addiction, the \"liking\" (pleasure or hedonic value) of a drug or other stimulus becomes dissociated from \"wanting\" (i.e., desire or craving) due to the sensitization of incentive salience. In fact, if the incentive salience associated with drug-taking becomes pathologically amplified, the user may want the drug more and more while liking it less and less as tolerance develops to the drug's pleasurable effects.\n\nAmphetamine and other ADHD stimulants improve task saliency (motivation to perform a task) and increase arousal (wakefulness), in turn promoting goal-directed behavior. The reinforcing and motivational salience-promoting effects of amphetamine are mostly due to enhanced dopaminergic activity in the mesolimbic pathway.\n"}
{"id": "30872739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30872739", "title": "New media art", "text": "New media art\n\nNew media art refers to artworks created with new media technologies, including digital art, computer graphics, computer animation, virtual art, Internet art, interactive art, video games, computer robotics, 3D printing, cyborg art and art as biotechnology. The term differentiates itself by its resulting cultural objects and social events, which can be seen in opposition to those deriving from old visual arts (i.e. traditional painting, sculpture, etc.). This concern with medium is a key feature of much contemporary art and indeed many art schools and major universities now offer majors in \"New Genres\" or \"New Media\" and a growing number of graduate programs have emerged internationally. New media art often involves interaction between artist and observer or between observers and the artwork, which responds to them. Yet, as several theorists and curators have noted, such forms of interaction, social exchange, participation, and transformation do not distinguish new media art but rather serve as a common ground that has parallels in other strands of contemporary art practice. Such insights emphasize the forms of cultural practice that arise concurrently with emerging technological platforms, and question the focus on technological media, per se.\n\nNew Media concerns are often derived from the telecommunications, mass media and digital electronic modes of delivering the artworks involve, with practices ranging from conceptual to virtual art, performance to installation.\n\nThe origins of new media art can be traced to the moving photographic inventions of the late 19th century such as the zoetrope (1834), the praxinoscope (1877) and Eadweard Muybridge's zoopraxiscope (1879). From the 1920s through the 1950s, various forms of kinetic and light art, from Thomas Wilfred's 'Lumia' (1919) and 'Clavilux' light organs to Jean Tinguely's self-destructing sculpture 'Homage to New York' (1960) can be seen as progenitors of new media art.\n\nIn 1958 Wolf Vostell becomes the first artist who incorporates a television set into one of his works. The \"Black Room Cycle\". This installation is part of the collection of the Berlinische Galerie.\n\nDuring the 1960s the development of then new technologies of video produced the new media art experiments of Nam June Paik, and Wolf Vostell with the installation \"6 TV Dé-coll/age\" in 1963 at the Smolin Gallery in New York. A. Michael Noll, and multimedia performances of E.A.T., Fluxus and Happening. \nIn 1983, Roy Ascott introduced the concept of \"distributed authorship\" in his worldwide telematic project La Plissure du Texte for Frank Popper's \"Electra\" at the Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris. The development of computer graphics at the end of the 1980s and real time technologies then in the 1990s combined with the spreading of the Web and the Internet favored the emergence of new and various forms of interactive art by Ken Feingold, Lynn Hershman Leeson, David Rokeby, Ken Rinaldo, Perry Hoberman, Tamas Waliczky; telematic art by Roy Ascott, Paul Sermon, Michael Bielický; Internet art by Vuk Ćosić, Jodi; virtual and immersive art by Jeffrey Shaw, Maurice Benayoun, Monika Fleischmann, Wolfgang Strauss and large scale urban installation by Rafael Lozano-Hemmer. In Geneva, the Centre pour l'Image Contemporaine or CIC coproduced with Centre Georges Pompidou from Paris and the Museum Ludwig in Cologne the first internet video archive of new media art.\n\nSimultaneously advances in biotechnology have also allowed artists like Eduardo Kac to begin exploring DNA and genetics as a new art medium.\n\nInfluences on new media art have been the theories developed around interaction, hypertext, databases, and networks. Important thinkers in this regard have been Vannevar Bush and Theodor Nelson, whereas comparable ideas can be found in the literary works of Jorge Luis Borges, Italo Calvino, and Julio Cortázar.\n\nIn the book \"New Media Art\", Mark Tribe and Reena Jana named several themes that contemporary new media art addresses, including computer art, collaboration, identity, appropriation, open sourcing, telepresence, surveillance, corporate parody, as well as intervention and hacktivism. In the book \"Postdigitale\", Maurizio Bolognini suggested that new media artists have one common denominator, which is a self-referential relationship with the new technologies, the result of finding oneself inside an epoch-making transformation determined by technological development. Nevertheless, new media art does not appear as a set of homogeneous practices, but as a complex field converging around three main elements: 1) the art system, 2) scientific and industrial research, and 3) political-cultural media activism. There are significant differences between scientist-artists, activist-artists and technological artists closer to the art system, who not only have different training and technocultures, but have different artistic production. This should be taken into account in examining the several themes addressed by new media art.\n\nNon-linearity can be seen as an important topic to new media art by artists developing interactive, generative, collaborative, immersive artworks like Jeffrey Shaw or Maurice Benayoun who explored the term as an approach to looking at varying forms of digital projects where the content relays on the user's experience. This is a key concept since people acquired the notion that they were conditioned to view everything in a linear and clear-cut fashion. Now, art is stepping out of that form and allowing for people to build their own experiences with the piece. Non-linearity describes a project that escape from the conventional linear narrative coming from novels, theater plays and movies. Non-linear art usually requires audience participation or at least, the fact that the \"visitor\" is taken into consideration by the representation, altering the displayed content. The participatory aspect of new media art, which for some artists has become integral, emerged from Allan Kaprow's \"Happenings\" and became with Internet, a significant component of contemporary art. \n\nThe inter-connectivity and interactivity of the internet, as well as the fight between corporate interests, governmental interests, and public interests that gave birth to the web today, fascinate and inspire a lot of current new media art.\n\nMany new media art projects also work with themes like politics and social consciousness, allowing for social activism through the interactive nature of the media. New media art includes \"explorations of code and user interface; interrogations of archives, databases, and networks; production via automated scraping, filtering, cloning, and recombinatory techniques; applications of user-generated content (UGC) layers; crowdsourcing ideas on social- media platforms; narrowcasting digital selves on \"free\" websites that claim copyright; and provocative performances that implicate audiences as participants\".\n\nOne of the key themes in new media art is to create visual views of databases. Pioneers in this area include Lisa Strausfeld, Martin Wattenberg and Alberto Frigo. Database aesthetics holds at least two attractions to new media artists: formally, as a new variation on non-linear narratives; and politically as a means to subvert what is fast becoming a form of control and authority.\n\nThe emergence of 3D printing has introduced a new bridge to new media art, joining the virtual and the physical worlds. The rise of this technology has allowed artists to blend the computational base of new media art with the traditional physical form of sculpture. A pioneer in this field was artist Jonty Hurwitz who created the first known anamorphosis sculpture using this technique.\n\nAs the technologies used to deliver works of new media art such as film, tapes, web browsers, software and operating systems become obsolete, New Media art faces serious issues around the challenge to preserve artwork beyond the time of its contemporary production. Currently, research projects into New media art preservation are underway to improve the preservation and documentation of the fragile media arts heritage (see DOCAM - Documentation and Conservation of the Media Arts Heritage).\n\nMethods of preservation exist, including the translation of a work from an obsolete medium into a related new medium, the digital archiving of media (see the Rhizome ArtBase, which holds over 2000 works, and the Internet Archive), and the use of emulators to preserve work dependent on obsolete software or operating system environments. \n\nAround the mid-90s, the issue of storing works in digital form became a concern. Digital art such as moving images, multimedia, interactive programs, and computer-generated art has different properties than physical artwork such as oil paintings and sculptures. Unlike analog technologies, a digital file can be recopied onto a new medium without any deterioration of content. One of the problems with preserving digital art is that the formats continuously change over time. Former examples of transitions include that from 8-inch floppy disks to 5.25-inch floppies, 3-inch diskettes to CD-ROMs, and DVDs to flash drives. On the horizon is the obsolescence of flash drives and portable hard drives, as data is increasingly held in online cloud storage.\n\nMuseums and galleries thrive off of being able to accommodate the presentation and preservation of physical artwork. New media art challenges the original methods of the art world when it comes to documentation, its approach to collection and preservation. Technology continues to advance, and the nature and structure of art organizations and institutions will remain in jeopardy. The traditional roles of curators and artist are continually changing, and a shift to new collaborative models of production and presentation is needed.\n\nIn New Media programs, students are able to get acquainted with the newest forms of creation and communication. New Media students learn to identify what is or isn't \"new\" about certain technologies. Science and the market will always present new tools and platforms for artists and designers. Students learn how to sort through new emerging technological platforms and place them in a larger context of sensation, communication, production, and consumption.\n\nWhen obtaining a bachelor's degree in New Media, students will primarily work through practice of building experiences that utilize new and old technologies and narrative. Through the construction of projects in various media, they acquire technical skills, practice vocabularies of critique and analysis, and gain familiarity with historical and contemporary precedents. \n\nIn the United States, many Bachelor's and Master's level programs exist with concentrations on Media Art, New Media, Media Design, Digital Media and Interactive Arts.\n\nLeading art theorists and historians in this field include Roy Ascott, Maurice Benayoun, Christine Buci-Glucksmann, Jack Burnham, Mario Costa, Edmond Couchot, Fred Forest, Oliver Grau, Margot Lovejoy, Dominique Moulon, Robert C. Morgan, Christiane Paul, Catherine Perret, Frank Popper, and Edward A. Shanken.\n\nThe term New Media Art is generally applied to disciplines such as:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5556670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5556670", "title": "Ohm's acoustic law", "text": "Ohm's acoustic law\n\nOhm's acoustic law, sometimes called the acoustic phase law or simply Ohm's law, states that a musical sound is perceived by the ear as a set of a number of constituent pure harmonic tones.\n\nThe law was proposed by physicist Georg Ohm in 1843. Hermann von Helmholtz elaborated the law into what is often today known as Ohm's acoustic law, by adding that the quality of a tone depends solely on the number and relative strength of its partial simple tones, and not on their relative phases. Helmholtz championed the law in opposition to contrary evidence expounded by August Seebeck.\n\nThe law has also been interpreted as \"a pitch corresponding to a certain frequency can only be heard if the acoustical wave contains power at that frequency.\"\n\nThese laws are true to the extent that the ear is sensitive to the frequency and amplitude of the acoustic waves, and further, is able to resolve the differences in their frequency. In modern times, the sensitivity of human hearing to the phase of tone components has been extensively investigated. Controversy has led to this characterization:\n"}
{"id": "340240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340240", "title": "Partition of a set", "text": "Partition of a set\n\nIn mathematics, a partition of a set is a grouping of the set's elements into non-empty subsets, in such a way that every element is included in one and only one of the subsets.\n\nEvery equivalence relation on a set defines a partition of this set, and every partition defines an equivalence relation. A set equipped with an equivalence relation or a partition is sometimes called a setoid, typically in type theory and proof theory.\n\nA partition of a set \"X\" is a set of nonempty subsets of \"X\" such that every element \"x\" in \"X\" is in exactly one of these subsets (i.e., \"X\" is a disjoint union of the subsets).\n\nEquivalently, a family of sets \"P\" is a partition of \"X\" if and only if all of the following conditions hold:\n\nThe sets in \"P\" are called the \"blocks\", \"parts\" or \"cells\" of the partition.\n\nThe rank of \"P\" is |\"X\"| − |\"P\"|, if \"X\" is finite.\n\n\nFor any equivalence relation on a set \"X\", the set of its equivalence classes is a partition of \"X\". Conversely, from any partition \"P\" of \"X\", we can define an equivalence relation on \"X\" by setting precisely when \"x\" and \"y\" are in the same part in \"P\". Thus the notions of equivalence relation and partition are essentially equivalent.\n\nThe axiom of choice guarantees for any partition of a set \"X\" the existence of a subset of \"X\" containing exactly one element from each part of the partition. This implies that given an equivalence relation on a set one can select a canonical representative element from every equivalence class.\n\nA partition \"α\" of a set \"X\" is a refinement of a partition \"ρ\" of \"X\"—and we say that \"α\" is \"finer\" than \"ρ\" and that \"ρ\" is \"coarser\" than \"α\"—if every element of \"α\" is a subset of some element of \"ρ\". Informally, this means that \"α\" is a further fragmentation of \"ρ\". In that case, it is written that \"α\" ≤ \"ρ\".\n\nThis \"finer-than\" relation on the set of partitions of \"X\" is a partial order (so the notation \"≤\" is appropriate). Each set of elements has a least upper bound and a greatest lower bound, so that it forms a lattice, and more specifically (for partitions of a finite set) it is a geometric lattice. The \"partition lattice\" of a 4-element set has 15 elements and is depicted in the Hasse diagram on the left.\n\nBased on the cryptomorphism between geometric lattices and matroids, this lattice of partitions of a finite set corresponds to a matroid in which the base set of the matroid consists of the atoms of the lattice, namely, the partitions with formula_6 singleton sets and one two-element set. These atomic partitions correspond one-for-one with the edges of a complete graph. The matroid closure of a set of atomic partitions is the finest common coarsening of them all; in graph-theoretic terms, it is the partition of the vertices of the complete graph into the connected components of the subgraph formed by the given set of edges. In this way, the lattice of partitions corresponds to the lattice of flats of the graphic matroid of the complete graph.\n\nAnother example illustrates the refining of partitions from the perspective of equivalence relations. If \"D\" is the set of cards in a standard 52-card deck, the \"same-color-as\" relation on \"D\" – which can be denoted ~ – has two equivalence classes: the sets {red cards} and {black cards}. The 2-part partition corresponding to ~ has a refinement that yields the \"same-suit-as\" relation ~, which has the four equivalence classes {spades}, {diamonds}, {hearts}, and {clubs}.\n\nA partition of the set \"N\" = {1, 2, ..., \"n\"} with corresponding equivalence relation ~ is noncrossing if it has the following property: If four elements \"a\", \"b\", \"c\" and \"d\" of \"N\" having \"a\" < \"b\" < \"c\" < \"d\" satisfy \"a\" ~ \"c\" and \"b\" ~ \"d\", then \"a\" ~ \"b\" ~ \"c\" ~ \"d\". The name comes from the following equivalent definition: Imagine the elements 1, 2, ..., \"n\" of \"N\" drawn as the \"n\" vertices of a regular \"n\"-gon (in counterclockwise order). A partition can then be visualized by drawing each block as a polygon (whose vertices are the elements of the block). The partition is then noncrossing if and only if these polygons do not intersect.\n\nThe lattice of noncrossing partitions of a finite set has recently taken on importance because of its role in free probability theory. These form a subset of the lattice of all partitions, but not a sublattice, since the join operations of the two lattices do not agree.\n\nThe total number of partitions of an \"n\"-element set is the Bell number \"B\". The first several Bell numbers are \"B\" = 1,\n\"B\" = 1, \"B\" = 2, \"B\" = 5, \"B\" = 15, \"B\" = 52, and \"B\" = 203 . Bell numbers satisfy the recursion\n\nand have the exponential generating function\n\nThe Bell numbers may also be computed using the Bell triangle\nin which the first value in each row is copied from the end of the previous row, and subsequent values are computed by adding two numbers, the number to the left and the number to the above left of the position. The Bell numbers are repeated along both sides of this triangle. The numbers within the triangle count partitions in which a given element is the largest singleton.\n\nThe number of partitions of an \"n\"-element set into exactly \"k\" nonempty parts is the Stirling number of the second kind \"S\"(\"n\", \"k\").\n\nThe number of noncrossing partitions of an \"n\"-element set is the Catalan number \"C\", given by\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15785676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15785676", "title": "Probability plot correlation coefficient plot", "text": "Probability plot correlation coefficient plot\n\nMany statistical analyses are based on distributional assumptions about the population from which the data have been obtained. However, distributional families can have radically different shapes depending on the value of the shape parameter. Therefore, finding a reasonable choice for the shape parameter is a necessary step in the analysis. In many analyses, finding a good distributional model for the data is the primary focus of the analysis.\n\nThe probability plot correlation coefficient (PPCC) plot is a graphical technique for identifying the shape parameter for a distributional family that best describes the data set. This technique is appropriate for families, such as the Weibull, that are defined by a single shape parameter and location and scale parameters, and it is not appropriate or even possible for distributions, such as the normal, that are defined only by location and scale parameters.\n\nThe technique is simply \"plot the probability plot correlation coefficients for different values of the shape parameter, and choose whichever value yields the best fit\".\n\nThe PPCC plot is formed by:\nThat is, for a series of values of the shape parameter, the correlation coefficient is computed for the probability plot associated with a given value of the shape parameter. These correlation coefficients are plotted against their corresponding shape parameters. The maximum correlation coefficient corresponds to the optimal value of the shape parameter. For better precision, two iterations of the PPCC plot can be generated; the first is for finding the right neighborhood and the second is for fine tuning the estimate.\n\nThe PPCC plot is used first to find a good value of the shape parameter. The probability plot is then generated to find estimates of the location and scale parameters and in addition to provide a graphical assessment of the adequacy of the distributional fit. \n\nThe PPCC plot answers the following questions:\n\nIn addition to finding a good choice for estimating the shape parameter of a given distribution, the PPCC plot can be useful in deciding which distributional family is most appropriate. For example, given a set of reliability data, one might generate PPCC plots for a Weibull, lognormal, gamma, and inverse Gaussian distributions, and possibly others, on a single page. This one page would show the best value for the shape parameter for several distributions and would additionally indicate which of these distributional families provides the best fit (as measured by the maximum probability plot correlation coefficient). That is, if the maximum PPCC value for the Weibull is 0.99 and only 0.94 for the lognormal, then one could reasonably conclude that the Weibull family is the better choice.\n\nWhen comparing distributional models, one should not simply choose the one with the maximum PPCC value. In many cases, several distributional fits provide comparable PPCC values. For example, a lognormal and Weibull may both fit a given set of reliability data quite well. Typically, one would consider the complexity of the distribution. That is, a simpler distribution with a marginally smaller PPCC value may be preferred over a more complex distribution. Likewise, there may be theoretical justification in terms of the underlying scientific model for preferring a distribution with a marginally smaller PPCC value in some cases. In other cases, one may not need to know if the distributional model is optimal, only that it is adequate for our purposes. That is, one may be able to use techniques designed for normally distributed data even if other distributions fit the data somewhat better.\n\nThe Tukey lambda PPCC plot, with shape parameter λ, is particularly useful for symmetric distributions. It indicates whether a distribution is short or long tailed and it can further indicate several common distributions. Specifically,\nIf the Tukey lambda PPCC plot gives a maximum value near 0.14, one can reasonably conclude that the normal distribution is a good model for the data. If the maximum value is less than 0.14, a long-tailed distribution such as the double exponential or logistic would be a better choice. If the maximum value is near −1, this implies the selection of very long-tailed distribution, such as the Cauchy. If the maximum value is greater than 0.14, this implies a short-tailed distribution such as the Beta or uniform.\n\nThe Tukey-lambda PPCC plot is used to suggest an appropriate distribution. One should follow-up with PPCC and probability plots of the appropriate alternatives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1079435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1079435", "title": "Rankism", "text": "Rankism\n\nRankism is \"abusive, discriminatory, or exploitative behavior towards people because of their rank in a particular hierarchy\".\nRank-based abuse underlies many other phenomena such as bullying, racism, hazing, ageism, sexism, ableism, mentalism, homophobia and transphobia. The term \"rankism\" was coined by physicist, educator, and citizen diplomat Robert W. Fuller.\n\nRankism can take many forms, including\n\nRankism can occur in any social hierarchy, such as governments, corporations, families, non-profit organizations, and universities.\n\nThe term rankism first appeared in print in the \"Oberlin Alumni Magazine\" for fall of 1997. It later appeared in a book called \"Somebodies and Nobodies: Overcoming the Abuse of Rank,\" written by Fuller and published in 2003.\n\nThe first use of the term in a management journal occurred in 2001 in a \"Leader to Leader Institute\" article. The piece questioned the abuse of rank in work hierarchies. The idea of rankism has since been widely covered in the media, including \"The New York Times\", \"NPR\", \"C-SPAN\", \"The Boston Globe\", the \"BBC\", \"Voice of America\", and \"O, The Oprah Magazine\".\n\nOther notable references of rankism include Fuller's second book on the subject, \"All Rise: Somebodies, Nobodies, and the Politics of Dignity,\" and an action-oriented guide titled \"Dignity for All: How to Create a World Without Rankism.\"\n\nThe Human Dignity and Humiliation Studies (HumanDHS) network has also accepted the concept of rankism as core to its mission. It asserts, \"...the mission we have undertaken at Human DHS is the confrontation of abuse, rankism and the humiliation endemic to it, on the historical scale.\"\n\nProfessional mediator Julia Ann Wambach uses Fuller's definition of rankism to explore the abuse of position within a hierarchy from both up and down the lines of power, including how rankism feeds on itself in group contexts.\n\nAccording to Fuller, the abuse of rank is experienced by victims as an affront to their dignity. Fuller and his supporters have launched a new social movement to promote the creation of a dignitarian society. The Dignity Movement's goal is to overcome rankism in the same way that the Civil Rights Movement and women's movements targeted racism and sexism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47313267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47313267", "title": "Rule consciousness", "text": "Rule consciousness\n\nThe rule consciousness as one of the primary factors of personality out of sixteen was categorized by (Raymond Cattell, 1946) as low and high level. The descriptors of low level rule consciousness are expedient, nonconforming, disregards rules, self-indulgent or having a low super ego strength while the high level consciousness are rule-conscious, dutiful, conscientious, conforming, moralistic, staid, rule bound or having high super ego strength.\n"}
{"id": "24983195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24983195", "title": "Sensory maps", "text": "Sensory maps\n\nSensory maps are areas of the brain which respond to sensory stimulation, and are spatially organized according to some feature of the sensory stimulation. In some cases the sensory map is simply a topographic representation of a sensory surface such as the skin, cochlea, or retina. In other cases it represents other stimulus properties resulting from neuronal computation and is generally ordered in a manner that reflects the periphery. An example is the somatosensory map which is a projection of the skin's surface in the brain that arranges the processing of tactile sensation. This type of somatotopic map is the most common, possibly because it allows for physically neighboring areas of the brain to react to physically similar stimuli in the periphery or because it allows for greater motor control.\n\nThe somatosensory cortex is adjacent to the primary motor cortex which is similarly mapped. Sensory maps may play an important role in facilitating motor responses. Other examples of sensory map organization may be that adjacent brain regions are related through proximity of the receptors that they process as in the map of the cochlea in the brain, or that similar features are processed as in the map of the feature detectors or the retinotopic map, or that time codes are used in organization as in the maps of an owl's sense of direction via interaural time difference between ears. These examples exist in contrast to non-mapped or randomly distributed patterns of processing. An example of a non-mapped sensory processing system is the olfactory system where unrelated odorants are processed side-by-side in the olfactory bulb. In addition to non-mapped and mapped processing, stimuli may be processed under multiple maps as in the human visual system.\n\nMapped sensory processing areas are a complex phenomenon and must therefore serve an adaptive advantage as it is highly unlikely for complex phenomena to appear otherwise. Sensory maps are also very old in evolutionary history as they are nearly ubiquitous in all species of animals and are found for nearly all sensory systems. Some advantages of sensory maps have been elucidated by scientific exploration:\n\nThese maps may be thought of as a mapping of the surface of the body onto the brain structure. Phrased another way, topographic maps are organized in the neural system in a manner that is a projection of the sensory surface onto the brain. This means that the organization in the periphery mirrors the order of the information processing in the brain. This organization can be somatotopic, as in the tactile sense of touch, or tonotopic, as in the ear, and the retinotopic map which is laid out in the brain as the cells are arranged on the retina.\n\n\nThese maps are organized entirely in the neural system or organized in a manner not present in the periphery. This can be any map that is constructed by neural computation which is the brain relating two or more bits of information in order to obtain some new information from them. Often these maps involve comparing, as in performing subtraction to get a time delay, two stimuli, like incoming sound information from different ears, in order to produce a valuable new bit of information about those stimuli, as in where they originated. The process just described takes place in the owl's neural system very rapidly.\n\n"}
{"id": "49026556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49026556", "title": "Sex differences in cognition", "text": "Sex differences in cognition\n\nSex differences in cognition, or mental abilities, are widely studied in the current scientific literature. Biological and genetic differences in combination with environment and culture have resulted in the cognitive differences among men and women. Among biological factors, hormones such as testosterone and estrogen may play some role mediating these differences. Among differences of diverse mental and cognitive abilities, the largest or most well known are those relating to spatial abilities, social cognition and verbal skills and abilities.\n\nCognitive abilities are mental abilities that a person uses in everyday life, as well as specific demand tasks. The most basic of these abilities are memory, executive function, processing speed and perception, which combine to form a larger perceptual umbrella relating to different social, affective, verbal and spatial information. Memory, which is one of the primary core of cognitive abilities can be broken down into short-term memory, working memory and long-term memory. There are also other abilities relating to perceptual information such as mental rotation, spatial visualization ability, verbal fluency and reading comprehension. Other larger perceptual umbrellas include social cognition, empathy, spatial perception and verbal abilities.\n\nVarious researchers have conducted studies to determine the differences between men and women and their abilities within their short-term memory. For example, a study conducted by Lowe, Mayfield, and Reynolds (2003) examined gender differences among children and adolescents on various short-term memory measures. This study included 1,279 children and adolescents, 637 males and 642 females, between the ages of 5 and 19. They found that females scored higher on two verbal subtests: Word Selective Reminding and Object Recall, and males scored higher on the Memory for Location and Abstract Visual Memory subtests, the key spatial memory tasks. In two different studies researchers have found that women perform higher on verbal tasks and men perform higher on spatial tasks (Voyer, Voyer, & Saint-Aubin, 2016). These findings are consistent with studies of intelligence with regards to pattern, females performing higher on certain verbal tasks and males performing higher on certain spatial tasks (Voyer, Voyer, & Saint-Aubin, 2016). Same results have been also found cross culturally. Sex differences in verbal short term memory have been found regardless of age even among adults, for example a review published in the journal \"Neuropsychologia\" which evaluated studies from 1990–2013 found greater female verbal memory from ages 11–89 years old.\n\nThere are usually no sex differences in overall working memory except those involving spatial information such as space and object. A 2004 study published in the journal of \"Applied Cognitive Psychology\" found significantly higher male performance on four visuo-spatial working memory. Another 2010 study published in the journal \"Brain and Cognition\" found a male advantage in spatial and object working memory on an n-back test but not for verbal working memory. Similarly another study published in the journal \"Human Brain Mapping\" found no sex differences in a verbal n-back working memory task among adults from ages 18–58 years old. There was also no sex differences in verbal working memory among a study of university students published in the \"Journal of Dental and Medical Sciences\". However, they still found greater male spatial working memory in studies published in the journals \"Brain Cognition\" and \"Intelligence\". Also, even though they found no sex differences in verbal working memory, researchers have found lower brain activity or hermodynamics in the prefrontal cortex of women which suggested greater neural efficiency and less effort for the same performance. Researchers indicate women might have greater working memory on tasks that only relies on the prefrontal cortex. A 2013 study published in the journal \"Current Research in Psychology\" also found a female advantage in one visual-working memory task among university students. A 2006 review and study on working memory published in the journal \"European Journal of Cognitive Psychology\" also found no gender differences in working memory processes except in a double-span task where women outperformed men. There have also been no sex differences found in a popular working memory task known as n-back among a large number of studies.\n\nStudies have found a greater female ability in episodic memory involving verbal or both verbal and visual-spatial tasks while a higher male ability that only involves complex visual-spatial episodic memory. For example, a study published in the journal \"Neuropsychology\" found that women perform at a higher level on most verbal episodic tasks and tasks involving some or little visual-spatial episodic memory. Another study published the following year found that women perform at a higher level in verbal and non-verbal (non-spatial visual) episodic memory but men performed at a higher level in complex visual-spatial episodic memory. A review published in the journal \"Current Directions in Psychological Science\" by researcher Agneta Herlitz also conclude that higher ability in women on episodic-memory tasks requiring both verbal and visuospatial episodic memory and on face-recognition tasks.\n\nSex differences in semantic memory have also been found with a higher female ability which can be explained by a female advantage in verbal fluency. One other study also found greater female free-recall and long term retrieval among the ages 5–17.\n\nThere has not been enough literature or studies assessing sex difference in executive functioning, especially since executive functions are not a unitary concept. However, in the ones that have been done, there have been differences found in attention and inhibition.\n\nA 2002 study published in the \"Journal of Vision\" found that males were faster at shifting attention from one object to another as well as shifting attention within objects. 2012–2014 studies published in the \"Journal of Neuropsychology\" with a sample size ranging from 3500–9138 participants by researcher Ruben C Gur found higher female attention accuracy in a neurocognitive battery assessing individuals from ages 8–21. A 2013 study published in the \"Chinese Medical Journal\" found no sex differences in executive and alerting of attention networks but faster orientation of attention among females. A 2010 study published in \"Neuropsychologia\" also found greater female responsiveness in attention to processing overall sensory stimulation.\n\nA 2008 study published in the journal \"Psychophysiology\" found faster reaction time to deviant stimuli in women. The study also analyzed past literature and found higher female performance in withholding social behavior such as aggressive responses and improper sexual arousal. Furthermore, they found evidence that women were better at resisting temptation in tasks, delaying gratification and controlling emotional expressions. They also found lower female effort in response inhibition in equal performance for the same tasks implying an advantage for females in response inhibition based on neural efficiency. In another study published in 2011 in the journal \"Brain and Cognition\", it was found that females outperformed males on the \"Sustained Attention to Response Task\" which is a test that measures inhibitory control. Researchers have hypothesized that any female advantage in inhibition or self-regulation may have evolved as a response to greater parenting responsibilities in ancestral settings.\n\nSex differences in processing speed has been largely noted in literature. Studies published in the journal \"Intelligence\" have found faster processing speed in women. For example, a 2006 study published in \"Intelligence\" by researcher Stephen Camarata and Richard Woodcock found faster processing speed in females across all age groups in a sample of 4,213 participants. This was followed by another study published in 2008 by researchers Timothy Z Keith and Matthew R. Reynolds who found faster processing speed in females from ages 6 to 89 years old. The sample also had a number of 8,818 participants. Other studies by Keith have also found faster processing speed in females from ages 5 to 17.\n\nStudies of sex differences in semantic perception (attribution of meaning) of words reported that males conceptualize items in terms of physical or observable attributes whereas females use more evaluative concepts. Another study of young adults in three cultures showed significant sex differences in semantic perception (attribution of meaning) of most common and abstract words. Contrary to common beliefs, women gave more negative scores to the concepts describing sensational objects, social and physical attractors but more positive estimations to work- and reality-related words, in comparison to men This suggests that men favour concepts related to extreme experience and women favour concepts related to predictable and controllable routines. In a light of the higher rates of sensation seeking and deviancy in males, in comparison to females, these sex differences in meaning attribution were interpreted as support for the Evolutionary theory of sex.\n\nSex differences in spatial abilities are widely established in literature. Males have much higher level of performance in three major spatial tasks which include spatial visualization, spatial perception and mental rotation. Spatial visualization elicits the smallest difference with a deviation of 0.13, perception a deviation of 0.44 and mental rotation the largest with a deviation of 0.73. Another 2013 meta-analysis published in the journal \"Educational Review\" found greater male mental rotation in a deviation of 0.57 which only grew larger as time limits were added. These male advantages manifests themselves in math and mechanical tasks for example significantly higher male performance on tests of geometry, measurement, probability, statistics and especially mechanical reasoning. It also manifests and largely mediates higher male performance in arithmetic and computational fluency All of these math and technical fields involve spatial abilities such as rotation and manipulation of imagined space, symbols and objects. Mental rotation has also been linked to higher success in fields of engineering, physics and chemistry regardless of gender. Spatial visualization on the other hand also correlate with higher math achievement in a range of 0.30 to 0.60. Furthermore, male advantage in spatial abilities can be accounted for by their greater ability in spatial working memory. Sex differences in mental rotation also reaches almost a single deviation (1.0) when the tasks require navigation, as found in one study with participants who used Oculus Rift in a virtual environment.\n\nEven though most spatial abilities are higher in men, object location memory or the ability to memorize spatial cues involving categorical relations are higher in women. Higher female ability in visual recognition of objects and shapes have also been found.\n\nLike spatial ability, sex differences in verbal abilities have been widely established in literature. There is a clear higher female performance on a number of verbal tasks prominently a higher level of performance in speech production which reaches a deviation of 0.33 and also a higher performance in writing Studies have also found greater female performance in phonological processing, identifying alphabetical sequences, and word fluency tasks. Studies have also females outperforming males in verbal learning especially on tests such as \"Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test\" and \"Verbal Paired Associates\". and A 2010 study published in the \"Journal of Advanced Prosthodentics\" found women showed significantly higher speech intelligibility scores than men and differences in acoustic (sound) parameters. Meanwhile, in another studies, a female advantage in generating synonyms and solving anagrams have also been found. Furthermore, a 2009 study published in the \"Archive of Clinical Neuropsychology\" found better female performance in writing that reached about 8 points in a sample of 22–80 year old adults, in relation to better male performance in math which reached about 4 points. It has also been found that the hormone estrogen increases ability of speech production and phonological processing in women, which could be tied to their advantages in these areas. Overall better female performance have also been found in verbal fluency which include a trivial advantage in vocabulary and reading comprehension while a significantly higher performance in speech production and essay writing. This manifests in higher female international PISA scores in reading and higher female Grade 12 scores in national reading, writing and study skills. Researchers Joseph M. Andreano and Larry Cahill have also found that the female verbal advantage extends into numerous tasks, including tests of spatial and autobiographical abilities. Another 2008 study published in the journal \"Act Psychologica\" found no sex differences in remembering phonologically-unfamiliar novel words but higher female ability to remember phonologically-familiar novel words. Meanwhile, higher depth of processing in semantic analysis among females compared to males have also been found in brain imaging studies, while greater female performance in many verbal abilities might be linked to their higher verbal memory. A 2013 study published in the \"International Journal of Psychology\" also found an adult female advantage in time for performing a verbal lexical task and temperament scale of social-verbal tempo.\n\nCurrent literature suggests women have higher level of social cognition. A 2012 review published in the journal \"Neuropsychologia\" found that women are better at recognizing facial effects, expression processing and emotions in general. Men were only better at recognizing specific behaviour which includes anger, aggression and threatening cues. A 2012 study published in the journal \"Neuropsychology\" with a sample of 3,500 individuals from ages 8–21, found that females outperformed males on face memory and all social cognition tests. In 2014, another study published in the journal \"Cerebral Cortex\" found that females had larger activity in the right temporal cortex, an essential core of the social brain connected to perception and understanding the social behaviour of others such as intentions, emotions, and expectations. In 2014, a meta-analysis of 215 study sample by researcher A.E. Johnson and D Voyeur in the journal \"Cognition and Emotion\" found overall female advantage in emotional recognition. Other studies have also indicated greater female superiority to discriminate vocal and facial expression regardless of valence, and also being able to accurately process emotional speech. Studies have also found males to be slower in making social judgments than females. Structural studies with MRI neuroimaging has also shown that women have bigger regional grey matter volumes in a number of regions related to social information processing including the Inferior frontal cortex and bigger cortical folding in the Inferior frontal cortex and parietal cortex Researchers have indicated that these sex differences in social cognition predisposes males to high rates of autism spectrum disorders which is characterized by lower social cognition.\n\nEmpathy is a large part of social cognition and facilitates its cognitive components known as theory of mind. Current literature suggests a consistent higher level of empathy in woman compared to men. A 2006 meta-analysis by researcher Rena A Kirkland in the journal \"North American Journal of Psychology\" found significant sex differences favoring females in the \"Reading of the mind\" test. The \"Reading of the mind\" test is an advanced ability measure of cognitive empathy in which Kirkland's analysis involved 259 studies across 10 countries. Another 2014 meta-analysis in the journal \"Cognition and Emotion\", found overall female advantage in non-verbal emotional recognition across 215 samples.\n\nUsing fMRI, neuroscientist Tania Singer showed that empathy-related neural responses are significantly lower in males when observing an \"unfair\" person experiencing pain. A 2014 study by researchers Chiyoko Kobayashi Frank, Simon Baron-Cohen and Barbara L. Ganzel found that on average women use brain networks correlated with both cognitive empathy (more activation in the mPFC) and affective empathy (deactivation in the vmPFC) more than men, and this can partly explain for women's better performance in theory of mind or cognitive empathy skills. A 2014 analysis from the journal \"Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews\" also found that there are sex differences in empathy from birth, growing larger with age and which remains consistent and stable across lifespan. Females were found to have higher empathy than males, while children with higher empathy regardless of gender continue to be higher in empathy throughout development. Further analysis of brain tools such as event related potentials found that females who saw human suffering had higher ERP waveforms than males. Another investigation with similar brain tools such as N400 amplitudes found higher N400 in females in response to social situations which positively correlated with self-reported empathy. Structural fMRI studies also found females to have larger grey matter volumes in posterior inferior frontal and anterior inferior parietal cortex areas which are correlated with mirror neurons in fMRI literature. Females were also found to have stronger link between emotional and cognitive empathy. The researchers found that the stability of these sex differences in development are unlikely to be explained by any environment influences but rather might have some roots in human evolution and inheritance.\n\nThroughout prehistory, females nurtured and were the primary caretakers of children, so this might have led to an evolved neurological adaptation for women to be more aware and responsive to non-verbal expressions. According to the \"Primary Caretaker Hypothesis\", prehistoric males did not have the same selective pressure as primary caretakers; so therefore this might explain modern day sex differences in emotion recognition and empathy.\n\n"}
{"id": "29030474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29030474", "title": "Sexual bullying", "text": "Sexual bullying\n\nSexual bullying is a type of bullying and harassment that occurs in connection with a person's sex, body, sexual orientation or with sexual activity. It can be physical, verbal, or emotional.\n\nThe NSPCC has defined sexual bullying as \"any bullying behaviour, whether physical or non-physical, that is based on a person's sexuality or gender. It is when sexuality or gender is used as a weapon by boys or girls towards other boys or girls – although it is more commonly directed at girls. It can be carried out to a person's face, behind their back or through the use of technology.\" The erstwhile Beatbullying organisation (now defunct) had a similar definition. It can be the use of sexual words to put someone down, like calling someone a slut, a slag, or gay, or spreading rumours about someone's alleged sex life. In its most extreme form, it can be inappropriate touching, sexual assault or even rape. This term is primarily used in the United Kingdom and is not yet used in other areas.\nDefinitions and descriptions of bullying and of sexual bullying can be problematic, however. Offensive terms are often deployed in a friendly way, so the context of such exchanges is very important, and adults sometimes misinterpret them. Conversely, while much sexual bullying is overt, a great deal is not, and appears to be ordinary bullying. An example of this is the teasing by tough boys of a 'geeky' boy for his academic ability. What is actually happening is that the boy is being mocked for his lack of machismo, or his lack of engagement in heterosexist banter with girls or boys. Superficially, the bullying has no sexual content, but is underpinned by the aggressors staking a claim to dominance for their 'type of boy' (See Mac An Ghaill, 1994 and Duncan, 1999).\n\nAs part of its research into sexual bullying in schools, the BBC Panorama programme commissioned a\nquestionnaire aimed at young people aged 11–19 years in schools and youth clubs across five regions of England. The survey revealed that of the 273 young people who responded to the questionnaire, 28 had been forced to do something sexual and 31 had seen it happen to someone else. Of the 273 respondents, 40 had experienced unwanted touching. UK Government figures show that in school year 2007/8 there were 3,450 fixed period exclusions and 120 permanent exclusions from schools in England due to sexual misconduct. That equates to 19 exclusions per school day for incidents including groping and using sexually insulting language. From April 2008 to March 2009, ChildLine counselled a total of 156,729 children. Of these, 26,134 children spoke about bullying as a main concern and 300 of these talked specifically about sexual bullying. 25% of children who have attended Kidscape free ZAP anti-bullying sessions have reported some form of sexual bullying.\n\nA significant proportion of LGBT students experience homophobic and transphobic violence in school. This is shown consistently by data from Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean, North America and the Pacific, with the proportion affected ranging from 16 per cent in Nepal to 85 per cent in the United States. LGBT students are also more likely to experience such violence at school than at home or in the community.\n\nLGBT students report a higher prevalence of violence at school than their non-LGBT peers. In New Zealand, for example, lesbian, gay and bisexual students were three times more likely to be bullied than their heterosexual peers and in Norway 15–48 per cent of lesbian, gay and bisexual students reported being bullied compared with 7 per cent of heterosexual students.\n\nA survey by the UK National Union of Teachers suggests that sexual bullying is most often carried out by boys against girls, although girls are increasingly harassing girls and boys in a sexual manner. Research shows that sexual bullying starts at primary school level and usually takes the form of verbal insults by boys directed at girls and women through demeaning sexually abusive and aggressive language. A NUT study shows that these verbal insults are generally centred on girls' sexual status including terms such as 'bitch', 'slag', 'tart' and 'slut'. Other researchers cite similar evidence. These incidents are typically dismissed as playful behaviour or justified through humour, however. The research also shows that boys are also subjected to a range of sexual bullying by other boys and by girls although this is said to be less obvious. The most prevalent issue is sexual verbal abuse and being called obscene names. The names that cause most offence to boys are homophobic terms and those that are associated with the 'absence' of high status masculinity. Sexual bullying can involve spreading rumours about someone's sexuality or sex life, or showing or posting sexual comments, photos, or videos, such as revenge porn.\n\nSome people, including the UK charity Beatbullying, have claimed that children are being bullied into providing 'sexual favours' in exchange for protection as gang culture enters inner city schools. Other anti-bullying groups and teachers' unions, including the National Union of Teachers, challenged the charity to provide evidence of this, as they had no evidence that this sort of behaviour was happening in schools.\n\nBullying victimization occurs more frequently in sexual minorities than heterosexual individuals. Sexual orientation-related physical bullying significantly correlates with mental distress and symptoms of trauma. When bullying co-occurs with adverse childhood experiences (see: Adverse Childhood Experiences Study), greater lifetime health disparities and health risk behaviours appear. Bullying, especially in adolescents, can lead to depression and suicidal ideation. Bullied sexual minority females are more likely to experience depression and suicidal ideation than their sexual minority male and heterosexual counterparts.\n\nAnti-gay physical bullying, along with sexual abuse and verbal bullying, can lead to psychosocial health problems, which can be a predictor of risky sex behaviours. Men who have sex with men in the United States and Canada have a higher prevalence of HIV than any other cohort.\n\n"}
{"id": "41303269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41303269", "title": "Slutwalk in Latin America", "text": "Slutwalk in Latin America\n\nSlutwalks in Latin America were renamed \"Marcha das Vadias\" in Brazil and \"La Marcha de las Putas\" in most Spanish-speaking countries, sometimes using PUTAS as an acronym for \"Por una transformación Auténtica y Social (For An Authentic Social Transformation)\" Some countries like Argentina, Brazil, and Colombia were known to host simultaneous Slutwalks in different cities. In almost all countries, Slutwalks are repeated annually, although not always in the same cities. Some protests select their dates to match significant events such as the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and the World Youth Day.\n\nThere were some interactions noted between the organizers in different countries. Organizers from Argentina had previously contacted their counterparts in Mexico and Venezuela through social networks, and artist Adriana Minolitti participated in Mexican Slutwalks before becoming an organizer herself at Buenos Aires. They were, in turn, contacted by organizers in Bolivia and Uruguay to get assistance. Also, the organizer of the national Slutwalk at Colombia had some previous interaction with organizers in Peru, and Argentine activist travelled to Chile to help organize La Marcha de las Maracas in Santiago. In most countries, the LGBT community actively participated, and many protests were attended by sex workers, with others expressing their solidarity. There was also a common regional chant: \"!Alerta, alerta, alerta que camina la Marcha de las Putas por América Latina!\" (Alert! Alert! Alert, the sluts are walking to Latin America!).\n\nThe Latin American protests shared the same purpose as those in other continents, but were additionally directed at local state authorities \nand members of the Catholic church whose public comments they saw as reinforcing gender stereotypes and a culture of violence against women. Protesters wore Catholic costumes in several countries, while many protests demanded a secular state and blamed the Catholic church for holding back women's rights. There were some exceptions like Colombia, where Catholics joined the protests. The Marcha das Vadias against the public spending for the visit of Pope Francis in Copacabana, Brazil, featured dissident Catholic groups marching among the protesters as well.\n\nSome protests evolved into permanent organizations, continued working throughout the year to combat violence against women, and participated or organized events other than the typical Slutwalks to raise awareness on sexual assault.\n\nOn August 12, 2011, the first SlutWalk took place simultaneously in Buenos Aires, Rosario and Mar del Plata, under the name \"La Marcha de las Putas\". The organizers, most of them belonging to women's and human rights organizations, described the march as \"not a strategy to fight, but a union of women and men to demand respect for the individual liberties of women.\" Participants mentioned the alarming rates of murdered women and human trafficking for sexual exploitation in Argentina as motives to join the SlutWalk. Feminist deputy María José Lubertino, who participated in the protest, said: \"Even though it started in a foreign country, this march helps us build a better citizenship and that is what pushes public policies forward.\" On November 25, 2011, La Marcha de las Putas protested in the city of Mendoza. The day was selected for being the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. A document issued by the organizers states: \"we will march to demand an end to all forms of violence against women, the figure of femicide as aggravation incorporated into the penal code, budget for the implementation of the Domestic Violence Act and the processing and approval of the law for voluntary interruption of pregnancy.\n\nNew Marchas de las Putas were held in Buenos Aires, Córdoba, San Juan and Mar del Plata on November 3, 2012. The main theme for the protest were sexual stereotypes. The march began with an exposition of photographs from the previous rally. There were also workshops and debate spaces regarding intimate and social respect, non-sexist education and media violence, while several music bands performed on stage. Organizer Verónica Lemi explained: \"marching is not enough. We need to raise awareness and create spaces for reflection and debate so we can take our slogans to our daily lives. We need society to stop justifying, tolerating or minimizing sexual abuses, and to stop victim-blaming.\" She also pointed at the need to promote that \"sexual abuse survivors speak of their experiences without being judged for it, and get the help they need to heal.\" The objective of the protest was to re-signify the word \"puta\" (equivalent for \"slut\", but also for \"prostitute\"), to take its violent power away so it cannot be used to cause harm, to favor the construction of a society where everyone is respected regardless of gender, sexual orientation or chosen lifestyle.\n\nOn October 6, 2013, another Marcha de las Putas took place in Buenos Aires. It began with an open space for sharing experiences of abuse, most of which had happened to the speakers during childhood or as teenagers, and kept silenced during years. \"It took me twelve years to tell my family I was abused when I was 10. I only was able to do it after I joined this movement and found other people went through similar situations\" explained Deborah, one of the organizers. Rita González, other of the organizers, explained the march is framed in a wider range of \"actions done during the whole year, to give legal assistance, emotional support and company to people who have been through difficult situations, which they begin to overcome in healing encounters where they can verbalize their pain.\" The selected slogan for the protest was: \"\"Desnudando la cultura de la violación\" (Disclosing rape culture)\". Other cities known to host Slutwalks were Posadas, La Plata and Formosa.\n\nMaría José Lubertino, once again participant of the march, said: \"in the 21st century, we cannot allow women to be judged for how we dress. A few weeks ago our President Cristina was discredited for wearing leggings, a clear example of what we see in a daily basis in different spheres. It's ridiculous and a typical patriarchal behavior. La Marcha de las Putas is about getting actively involved in building a new reality, in which respect, recognition and effective equality between men and women prevail.\n\nOn November 19, 2013, La Marcha de las Putas participated among several other organizations in a wider protest to raise awareness on child sexual abuse. It included activities related to the importance of detection and prevention of child molestation, legal processes, and healing. The protest advocated for better laws, and for the effective application of the existing laws. The day was closed with speeches from the organizations, and artistic activities for the participants.\n\nThe first SlutWalk took place in Sao Paulo under the name \"Marcha das Vadias\" (also \"Marcha de las Vagabundas\") on June 4, 2011. Around 300 people gathered, marching in daily outfits. Only a 23 years old student participated in underwear. The organizers of the event, writer Solange De-Ré and publicist Madô Lopez explained: \"We do not want Carnival. We want people to dress normally, as they like to wear.\" On June 18, 2011 a new Marcha das Vadias gathered one thousand people at Brasilia. Despite the name, the SlutWalk brought together women, men and families, sometimes including babies. Participants chanted slogans against sexual abuse. On July 2, 2011, hundreds of people attended Marcha das Vadias at Copacabana, in the South Zone of Rio de Janeiro. Participants advocated for the improvement in hospitals and police stations for women victims of sexual abuse, access to abortion with no paperwork when pregnancy is the result of rape, and the effective implementation of the Lei Maria da Penha, in cases of battered women. During 2011, new Marchas das Vadias were organized at Belo Horizonte, Florianópolis, Juiz de Fora, Recife, Fortaleza, Porto Alegre and Natal.\n\nOn May 26, 2012, Marcha das Vadias took place simultaneously in Brasilia, Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, Sao Paulo and Vitoria, among others. During the march in Brasilia, a man participating in the protest began to speak offensive phrases to women and homosexuals, and then dropped his pants to show his penis. He was quickly arrested and taken to a nearby police station.\n\nOn May 25, 2013, Marcha das Vadias was held in Recife and Sao Paulo, gathering over 2000 and 1000 people respectively. Késia Salgado, organizer at Recife stated: \"The march is to show that women will no longer be silent, that impunity will not happen; we live a social epidemic and have to reeducate ourselves. Marcha das Vadias does not end when the protest is over, we keep working so that daily violence is not forgotten.\" In this city, the protest included various artistic interventions of groups supporting the cause. Towards the end of the march at Praça da Independência, the group opened space for testimonials. With megaphones, women victims of sexual assault shared their experiences with the rest of the participants.\n\nIn Sao Paulo, the march walked past rue Augusta, a street known for being a gathering point for prostitutes, as a gesture of support. \"It's in Augusta where we find the women that society likes to call sluts, or rapeable\" explained a member of the collective.\"Our intention is to create visibility on the fight against violence towards women. We want to encourage women who are suffering violence to break the silence and make men aware of the daily acts of violence they practice.\" Protesters also handed over to pedestrians a \"security card\" to be kept in wallets, containing the phone number of services which help abused women.\n\nThere was a new Marcha das Vadias organised at Brasilia on June 22, 2013, gathering around 3000 people. Protesters spoke against the State intervention on women's bodies, and against religious leaders occupying seats in State institutions. A new episode was reported of a man who, in apparent state of drunkenness, insulted the manifestants and dropped his pants.\n\nIn Copacabana, Rio de Janeiro, Marcha das Vadias was planned to match a visit from Pope Francis to the city, on June 22, 2013, in the context of the World Youth Day, and the protest was renamed \"Jornada Mundial das Vadias (World Slut Day)\". Organizer Rogéria Peixinho explained \"performing the act during the Pope's visit is also a way to put another youth on the street, establishing a political counterpoint. We want to show that there is another youth and another way of thinking about the world, and the chosen date also has to do with it.\" There were several participants in costumes representing religious characters such as nuns and the Pope, and signs with puns and slogans rejecting religious views on women and sexuality. A group called Católicas Pelo Direito de Decidir (Catholic Women for the Right to Choose) in favor of abortion, women priests and married priests, participated in the protest.\n\nPeixinho asserted the importance of the Pope's visit regarding the objectives of Marcha das Vadias: \"The presence of the Pope and the public resources allocated for the visit of a spiritual leader calls into question the secular State. (...) This matter falls within the axes of our movement, as well as the right to the body, the complaints about the rape cases that are increasing especially in Rio, and the formulation of public policies to protect women.\" The participants, during the march, encountered a group of about 50 pilgrims from France, Chile and Italy, participating in the World Youth Day, who were offended by the act and started insulting the participants. A pilgrim spat in the face of a protester. However, most pilgrims peacefully observed the demonstration and some foreigners, without realizing it, mingled among the protesters.\n\nDuring the protest, some of the participants smashed statues of saints. Peixinho assured the action was not planned nor encouraged by the organizers, but after the incident several of them suffered death threats via phone calls, text messages and messages on social networks, and several pages were created on Facebook exposing their phone numbers and addresses. The movement denounced the case to the Human Rights Commission of Alerj and sought support of Amnesty International.\n\nSee: Afro-Brazilian Feminism\n\nOn September 19, 2011 the first Slutwalk took place in the city of Santiago with the name La Marcha de las Putas y las Maracas, and was appointed to walk from Plaza del Corregidor to Estación Mapocho. The protest was organized by collective Rita Lazo, which explained: \"this is an answer to the violence still present in many areas of our lives. When we appropriate and re-signify the word \"puta\", we take down its offensive meaning and fight against the dominance over our bodies. We abort fear: when a woman says NO it means NO. Nothing justifies a rapist's actions. Let us break the rules on how to \"be a woman\". This struggle is not only one of women, but of society as a whole. That's why we say: WE ARE ALL PUTAS!\" \n\nOn January 13, 2012, over 400 people, mostly female students, marched in the city of Ñuñoa under the name \"La Marcha de las Putas\" to protest against the city mayor Pedro Sabat for his saying regarding the occupation of the Female National Boarding School. In a debate with the president of the Student Federation, Camila Vallejo, Sabat described the Boarding School as \"a harlotry\", and accused the students of engaging in sex trade within the institution. Previous to the protest, the students presented legal charges for defamation against the mayor.\n\nIo Guiria, spokeswoman of the students ensured that they were \"ready to carry out the protest to the very end\". \"We believe the Justice system must take action after such serious declarations\" she stated, and also added they expect an indemnity as well as a public apology \"and, if possible, jail time.\" The protest ended when Special Carabiniers Forces acted to prevent the crowd from cutting street traffic on Irarrázaval street, and faced protesters with tear gas bombs and water cannons. Student Natalia Torres was hit by a stone in the head and was left unattended for 40 minutes until she got help from a doctor who walked by. Six people were arrested by the time the protest was over.\n\nOn February 25, 2012, the first Slutwalk was held with the name \"La Marcha de las Putas\" in the cities of Armenia, Bucaramanga, Barranquilla, Manizales, Medellín, Pereira, the island of San Andrés, Villavicencio, Tunja, and Bogotá, gathering up to 2000 people in the country's capital, at Bolívar Square. The participants included men, women, the LGBT community, intellectuals, college students and Catholic Church representatives. Some men assisted in naked torsos and wearing red lipstick. There were also many topless women, one of which explained: \"I came naked today because it must be clear than my body is mine alone, and even walking in bare breasts only I decide who gets to touch me.\" Mar Candela, one of the organizers, was in charge of the opening speech: \"We suffer to be called sluts for living our sexuality freely. When we are victims of violence, there are those who dare say we \"asked for it\". We are victims of harassment in buses, in streets, in public spaces. This society need to understand that when a woman says no, it's no.\" In Colombia, a woman is victim of abuse every 6 hours, and an average 245 women are victims of some kind of violence every day. Mar Candela stated La Marcha de las Putas proved that all sections of society are committed to ending it. \"We'll do it. We'll make possible that no woman is made victim of violence under the complicity of society's silence.\" \n\nThe protest was closed by a speech from a group of sex workers who demanded the government and society to recognize their rights. Darly, one of them, expressed: \"We want to be respected. We work with our bodies, like everyone else. The shoemaker uses his hands to make shoes, the football player uses his feet to score goals. Therefore, being a prostitute, no one has the right to point a finger at me or treat me with violence.\" Social NGOs Opción Colombia and Red Colombiana de Masculinidades no Hegemónicas (Colombian Network of non-Hegemonic Masculinities) also participated in the protest.\n\nOn April 6, 2013, La Marcha de las Putas was held simultaneously in Bogotá, where over 1000 people attended, Barranquilla, Cali, Cartagena, Manizales and Medellín. Mar Candela, organiser at Bogotá and coordinator of the protest on the national level, decided to use the word \"PUTAS\" as an acronym for \"\"Por Una Transformación Auténtica y Social\" (For An Authentic Social Transformation)\", which had been used in Peru during the protests. She adds: \"The word \"puta\" shouldn't even be used as an offense, and doing so reveals great ignorance. Whatever a woman does with her vagina, she is a human being with full individual rights. It is commonly said that being a prostitute means losing constitutional rights and State protection, but prostitution is legal in Colombia. And even if it was illegal, they are still in complete possession of their rights, because human rights apply even for criminals.\"\n\nAccording to Mar Candela, all fractions of society were represented in the march including Catholics, protestants, LGBT, atheists, artists, agnostics and krishnas, which allowed to treat the subject outside of the traditional feminist context. She also spoke regarding activities from La Marcha de las Putas apart from the street protests: \"we've been collaborating with schools and communities in different neighborhoods, and now we're magnifying those processes. Today, our feminist movement and the urban pedagogy of Slutwalk counts on the presence of sexual psychologist Alejandra Quintero, who's strongly supporting the matter of female body empowerment.\" As well as fighting conservative attitudes, women and women's organizations on the march were concerned about the sexual violence that has been an integral part of the armed conflict. The UN has called on Colombia to end impunity for sexual crimes by the armed forces.\n\nRubiela Valderrama, organiser at Cartagena, stated that many organizations, collectives and foundations were invited to join the protest. She also explained the objective of La Marcha de las Putas is \"to create interest among the Cartagena community, to promote its participation in affirmative action focused on the transformation of individual and collective conscience to break the oppression, injustice and any rule or norm which naturalizes violence against women in the city.\" \n\nOn November 17, 2013, La Marcha de las Putas organised a protest in front of a famous restaurant in Bogotá called Andrés Carne de Res. An accusation had been made on November 2, of a 19-year-old woman who was raped by a lawyer in the restaurant's parking lot and Andrés Jaramillo, owner of the restaurant, pointed at the victim's clothes as an explanation. The initiative was spread mainly through social networks. After the events, Jaramillo apologized and denied to have a sexist attitude, and the accused rapist presented himself at the public prosecutor's office for questioning, but was not arrested.\n\nOn August 14, 2011, the first Slutwalk of Costa Rica was held in the city of San José with the name \"La Marcha de las Putas\" and the invitation was spread mainly through social networks. Organizer Montserrat Sagot, university professor and feminist leader, is the author of several books including \"When Violence Against Women Kills: Femicide in Costa Rica.\" The protest was directed against remarks made on August 2 by senior Catholic clerics during a ceremony in Cartago honouring Costa Rica's patron saint, the Virgen de los Angeles.\n\nAt the event, Bishop José Francisco Ulloa called on women to dress \"modestly\" to not be \"dehumanized\" and \"objectified.\" \"The sexual gift that God gave women is wrapped in love and fidelity for its ultimate purpose: fertilization,\" Ulloa said. Mexican Cardinal Francisco Robles, representing Pope Benedict XVI, said at the ceremony that a woman's mission \"does not consist in emulating men, but rather in creating a more humane world by exercising creativity in the household.\" Robles urged women to enter public life \"without imitating men,\" and to strengthen their role at home as mothers and family members. \"The mandate from the (Catholic) church for women to act with modesty and decency is the same conservative message that intends to blame women for the abuses of which they are victims,\" Sagot said.\n\nThe group of organizers issued a communication in defense of the right of women to dress as they wish, with no Church or institution imposing limitations. \"Our claim is the most basic of feminism: we decide over our own lives, no one else has to tell us how to dress, what to think or what we should do. On the contrary, it is necessary to teach men not to rape, assault and abuse\" says the document. It also demanded the enforcement of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), ratified by Costa Rica in 1986 and the Convention of Belém do Pará (Inter-American Convention on the Prevention, Punishment and Eradication of Violence against Women) ratified by Costa Rica in 1995.\n\nAfter the protest, Sagot wrote: \"The march proved that in this country exists a new generation, who is not willing to answer with \"good manners\" to institutions which, like the Catholic hierarchy, disrespect their rights, blame women for the violence they suffer and which, from a position of power ( ... ) attempt to impose norms and lifestyles to people who do not agree with them.\" She also linked the protests to the \"evident commitments\" of President Laura Chinchilla to the Catholic Church.\n\nOn November 22, 2013, a second Marcha de las Putas was organised at San José with the slogan \"\"No es no. La violencia nunca es consentida\" (No means no: violence is never consented)\". The choice of the slogan denounced sayings from former deputy Oscar Lopez, who declared there is \"a thin line between consent and rape\". Organizers claim such statements minimize the problem of sexual violence against women, justify the actions of rapists, and reinforce misogynistic speech. Their aim was that Lopez retracts his comments and recognises that sexual assault as a serious form of violence against women. They also called for Lopez's political party, Partido de Accessibilidad Sin Exclusión, to commit on taking action, and for all other political parties to pronounce on the matter.\n\nOn March 11, 2012, the first Slutwalk took place in Quito, with the name \"La Marcha de las Putas\". Sex workers and transgender people attended the event, and the meeting of the organizer previous to the protest was at Casa Transgénero (Transgender House). Social movement Ruptura also supported the march, stating: \"This protest advocates for the right of women to express their reality in their clothes, poses and make up, and this can't be turned into an excuse for harassment and abuse.\"\n\nOn April 22, 2013, another Marcha de las Putas was organized in Quito by feminist and LGBT collectives, gathering nearly 3000 people. Organizer Ana Almeida explained: \"We want to establish a precedent of this message of no violence against women, because women's bodies must be respected; we can't allow women to be stigmatized for their clothes. Nothing can justify violence. We make a constant political work to redefine the word \"puta\" and what it means to both women and men.\"\n\nAt the march, there was an increased number of male participants, as well as people with naked torsos, a fake Catholic priest in pink robe, many signs with rhymes and slogans, live musicians and stiltwalkers. Halfway through the protest, rain began to pour down, but the protest continued while many chanted: \"\"¡Que llueva, que llueva, las putas no se ahuevan!\" (Let it rain, let it rain, sluts don't give up!)\" \n\nOn August 6, 2011, Andrea Nuila co-organized the event with her group Atrévete, the Tegucigalpa chapter of Hollaback!, an international women-led movement to end street harassment. For Nuila, the march is also about confronting the dangerous combination of male dominance and impunity that puts Honduran women at risk, as seen in the high occurrence of femicide. \"They're increasing every day. We believe that women are not only victims of sexual harassment, they're also victims of domestic violence. And we have a big level of impunity from the state institutions\" she said.\n\nFrancisco Murillo López, head of the Dirección Nacional de Investigación Criminal (National Direction of Criminal Investigation), was asked to explain the rise in the killing of women. He said \"the most significant factor is gender equality. Women are participating in roles that were previously carried out by men. Today we see women driving taxis, driving a truck. This shows how much Honduran society is changing, and therefore it is normal to see women dying. Gender equality is the principal reason that women are now involved in violent affairs linked to organized gangs and common crime.\"\n\nHowever, according to the research of Ana Carcedo, the region's foremost expert on femicide, 12% of female homicides in Honduras can be linked to organized crime, while in 40% of the cases, the killer is either a current or former lover, while more than 9% of the killings result from sexual attacks, and almost 8% of the women are being killed by their family members. All in all, according to Carcedo, in roughly three-quarters of the cases, the women were killed in one way or another for being women. This is the opposite of the conclusion of the Honduran police chief that they are being killed for taking on male roles.\n\nSandra Maribel, director of the radio station Radio Gualcho, was present at the event. According to her analysis: \"The use of language to discriminate based on the way we dress is related to the broader women's struggle in Honduras. There's lots of violence inside the home, and we want to change that. Maybe a good place to start is by changing the language used to refer to us women.\" She also referred to the recent ban on the morning-after pill approved by the Congress of Honduras: \"The women's struggle isn't isolated from the larger struggle of the Honduran people. It's a liberation struggle, not only in the political sense, but in every sense. And the Honduran women have been active participants in the resistance against the Honduras coup d'etat. But we're not doing it just to make the crowd bigger. We want the order of things to change in this country.\"\n\nMaria Victoria, a participant who works as an HIV/AIDS prevention worker, urged people to consider how the word slut is used to discriminate against the trans community as well: \"Women and trans people who choose to dress sexy shouldn't be called sluts.\" Fernando Reyes, of Honduras' diversity and resistance movement considered the march as a response to all forms of intolerance: \"Today is the best example, seeing all the youth of the sexual diversity and various cultural collectives demonstrating and realizing that even as youths they have a right to be who they want to be.\"\n\nAs a closing activity, participants took turns writing messages on the side of the city's main Catholic cathedral. Nuila explained: \"The church is one of the institutions that has oppressed women's rights the most, especially in a Catholic country like ours. Abortion is illegal in Honduras, not only for the women, because it's criminalized from three to six years in jail, but he doctor is also penalized, and their license restricted.\" \n\nOn December 8, 2012, hundreds of people participated in the second Marcha de las Putas at Tegucigalpa. Many women assisted with their male partners, and the protest counted on the participation of LGBT organizations. \"We're marching to protest against the sexual harassment us women suffer for the way we choose to dress\" explained Karla Martínez, coordinator of the protest, \"we're tired of our clothing being an excuse for men to feel they have the right to rape us or grope us, that's why we're here today, demanding an end to violence against women.\"\n\nMildred Tejada, from the United Nations System, was present at Marcha de las Putas. \"The word \"puta\" causes aversion, it's an insult to all women regardless of the profession they exercise\" she said. Sergio Ulloa, one of the male protesters, commented on the march: \"We live in a machista country, and it's about time men stop harassing and sexually abusing women. Women must have their rights respected, and men must respect and value women.\"\n\nOn June 12, 2011 Slutwalk took place in Mexico City, with the name Marcha de las Putas. Women, men and children, mostly in casual wear but some in heels and schoolgirl miniskirts, marched with signs saying \"No means No\" and \"prostitutes are sacred.\" One self-described grandmother in a low-cut blouse advised women to dress as they pleased. \"This is a problem of all society\" said Edith López, spokeswoman of the protest, \"we need to re-educate ourselves, because victims of sexual violence are not the ones responsible.\" Similar walks were held in Cancún, Guadalajara, Oaxaca and Sinaloa.\n\nAccording to different non-government organizations, violence against women has raised by 30%, and an average 1200 women each year receive medical assistance for domestic or workplace violence. Official data from Mexico show that during the years 1999 to 2005, over six thousand girls and women were murdered for being women. Gabriela Amancaya, from Atrévete DF, the local version of Hollaback!, participated in the protest in Mexico City, and explained the goal was to \"raise consciousness around the fact that we are tired of street harassment, of abuse in general, and of the silence which always surrounds those subjects.\" The invitation was made through social networks, and gathered thousands of participants to the march.\n\nOn June 27, 2011, Marcha de las Putas was organized at Puebla, with the participation of activists, students, housewives, academics, professionals, mothers and a few female politicians, whose presence was questioned by some participants who considered they were not so interested in gender equality as they were in being seen among the crowd. About a dozen women were dressed as prostitutes, and at least one was in a nun costume. They explained their goal was to show that in either of those outfits, they must be equally respected. There was also a runway with different types of shoe wear, including high heels, sandals, boots and sport shoes, with colorful signs about their pretended owners: \"one who kisses whoever she wants\", \"one who works\". They were beneath a bigger sign stating: \"Putas somos todas, o ninguna (Either all of us or none of us is a slut).\" On July 16, 2011, Marcha de las Putas was held in Uruapan.\n\nOn October 8, 2012, a new Marcha de las Putas was held at Puebla. Natali Hernández participated with her non-profit organization, Red por los Derechos Sexuales y Reproductivos (Network for Sexual and Reproductive Rights), which denounced in the State of Puebla there's an accusation of sexual violence against a woman every 12 hours, making that state the fifth in sexual violence occurrence, in a country where the average of denounces is one every 17 hours. The protest finished in front of Puebla's City Hall, where the protesters pronounciated against sexual violence. They stressed that in the previous six years, murders of women raised up to three times. Figures show 341 femicides in 2005 against 619 in 2011, marking an 81% increase.\n\nOn November 25, 2012, a new Marcha de las Putas was organized in Tuxtla Gutiérrez to match the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. Martha Figuero Mier participated in the protest with her NGO Colectivo de Mujeres (Colem), and as an activist is representing several cases of women's rights violations in Chiapas at the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights. Previous to the march, her organization had denounced 67 femicides of indigenous women during 2012. She explained the number was based only in the cases covered by the media, since the Attorney General's Office of Chiapas did not respond to their requests for information about number and status of the processes of femicides.\n\n\"When a woman is assaulted or murdered, the authorities qualify it as a crime of passion, disregarding the larger social structure which minimizes and violates the rights of women. We demand public policies to eliminate all forms of violence against women\" added the participants of the protest. Alejandra Peralta, head of the Secretaría para el Desarrollo y Empoderamiento de las Mujeres (Secretary for the Development and Empowerment of Women) at the State Government, also participated in La Marcha de las Putas. She admitted there are high records of violence against women, but the numbers and statistics on femicides and accusations for assault must be administered by the Attorney General's Office.\n\nOn June 11, 2011, the first Slutwalk was held in Matagalpa under the name \"Marcha de las Putas\", with the objective of bringing an end to the naturalization of violence against women and blaming of victims based on their appearance. According to the Network of Women Against Violence, 89 women in Nicaragua were murdered by their partner or another individual known to them on 2012. Edume Larracochea, Spanish leader of Red de Mujeres de Matagalpa (Matagalpa Women Network) and organizer of the event, said dozens of women assisted, wearing jeans or skirts, high heels or flats, as they chose. \"The march was a great success, we feel people were interested and we want everyone to reflect on sexual violence\" she added.\n\nAt the end of the protest, Red de Mujeres de Matagalpa read a document denouncing society for \"using the word \"puta\" to stigmatize and discredit those women who are courageous enough to decide over our bodies and our lives.\" It also states the protersters \"are tired of hearing us women provoke, and therefore are guilty\" of sexual violence.\n\nOn October 25, 2011 the first Slutwalk was held in Panamá City with the name \"La Marcha de las Putas\". Among the 500 men and women who joined the protest on a rainy day, there were a few prostitutes who, despite prostitution being legal in Panamá, expressed their complaints regarding their situation. The march began outside the headquarters of the Attorney General's Office. The participants said they were demanding respect and an end to domestic violence in the country. Actress explained she supported the cause, even though she was not able to attend the protest. She narrated a visit to her doctor at the age of 17 wearing jeans and a low-cut blouse, in which she got told: \"Look at yourself! Then you'll complain when you get raped\". \"It doesn't matter whether you dress sexy or not, respect is fundamental\" she added.\n\nColombian journalist Carolina Ángel Idrobo was also present at the protest to cover the story for Panamanian newspaper La Prensa. On the day following the march, she was given a verbal warning from her editor for being seen dancing and singing among the protesters, arguing activism was incompatible with journalism at La Prensa. Idrobo apologized to the editor, but on November 2 she was called by the director, who informed her she was fired. The FELCOPER (\"Federación Colombiana de Periodistas\" - Colombian Federation of Journalists) pronounced in favor of Idrobo, expressing their worry around censorship and discrimination inside independent media, as well as unfair layoffs based on ideology. \"Freedom of speech cannot be a right to be claimed only from the media to society, it must also be guaranteed by the media to its workers\" explained Adriana Hurtado, president of FELCOPER.\n\nOn November 12, 2011, a Slutwalk was held in Lima with the name \"La Marcha de las Putas\". Over 100 women in short skirts and lingerie joined the protest and handed panflets to bystanders. \"People are surprised to see women dressed like this, it always catches the eye\" explained Fiorella Farje, one of the organizers and member of P.U.T.A.S., \"Por Una Transformación Auténtica y Social\" (For An Authentic Social Transformation). \"We were a bit scared for the name of the protest, that we might have problems or the message could be distorted, but the reaction was very positive\" she added.\n\nOn November 10, 2012, a new Marcha de las Putas took place in Lima, gathering around 150 people. Ana Lucía Álvarez, spokeswoman of the organization, explained to the local media it was not a march of prostitutes, but rather one of young people against violence towards women and street harassment. \"We also recognize prostitutes have dignity, deserve respect from all society and we reject the mistreatment they suffer from the police.\"\n\nOn December 9, 2012, the first Slutwalk was held with the name \"La Marcha de las Putas\", inviting men, women, transgender people and children alike. \"Each one of us participates with as much or as little clothing as they wish\" explained the organizers, \"Our demand is that society stops tolerating and minimizing sexual abuses, and instead of blaming the victim, have the perpetrator severely judged.\"\n\nThe protest was also directed to a comment made by President José Mujica to those who were asking for the resignation of Fernando Calloia, head of the Banco de la República. Mujica answered publicly in Brasilia saying \"they had better control their wives.\" During their speech at the protest, the organizers answered: \"We don't want to be controlled, men believe they are owners of any woman. Patriarchy tells them they are incontinent and therefore can't stop themselves nor respect us. But we look for partners, not owners.\"\n\nSociologist Teresa Herrera also addressed the remark: \"Mr. President, the ideology of men exercising power over women is the eldest in the world, even previous to the richness-poverty relation, and its ideological justification is, unfortunately, supported in all cultures. Because of this, we have deep-rooted behaviors we must \"unlearn\" and new ways of relating and knowing each other we must apprehend. Us women don't need to be controlled, in fact, control is the first step of violence against us.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2118929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2118929", "title": "Solidarity", "text": "Solidarity\n\nSolidarity is unity (as of a group or class) that produces or is based on unities of interests, objectives, standards, and sympathies. It refers to the ties in a society that bind people together as one. The term is generally employed in sociology and the other social sciences as well as in philosophy or in Catholic social teaching. In addition, solidarity is a core concept in Christian democracy political ideology.\n\nWhat forms the basis of solidarity varies between societies. In simple societies it may be mainly based on kinship and shared values. In more complex societies there are various theories as to what contributes to a sense of social solidarity.\n\nSolidarity is also one of six principles of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and December 20 of each year is International Human Solidarity Day recognized as an international observance.\n\nAccording to Émile Durkheim, the types of social solidarity correlate with types of society. Durkheim introduced the terms \"mechanical\" and \"organic solidarity\" as part of his theory of the development of societies in \"The Division of Labour in Society\" (1893). In a society exhibiting mechanical solidarity, its cohesion and integration comes from the homogeneity of individuals—people feel connected through similar work, educational and religious training, and lifestyle. Mechanical solidarity normally operates in \"traditional\" and small scale societies. In simpler societies (e.g., tribal), solidarity is usually based on kinship ties of familial networks. Organic solidarity comes from the interdependence that arises from specialization of work and the complementarities between people—a development which occurs in \"modern\" and \"industrial\" societies.\n\nAlthough individuals perform different tasks and often have different values and interest, the order and very solidarity of society depends on their reliance on each other to perform their specified tasks. Organic here is referring to the interdependence of the component parts. Thus social solidarity is maintained in more complex societies through the interdependence of its component parts (e.g., farmers produce the food to feed the factory workers who produce the tractors that allow the farmer to produce the food).\n\nA connection between the biological and the social was of principal importance for the idea of solidarity as expressed by the anarchist ideologist and former Prince Peter Kropotkin (1842–1921). In his most famous book, \"\" (1902), written partly in response to Huxleyan Social Darwinism, Kropotkin studied the use of cooperation as a survival mechanism in human societies at their various stages, as well as with animals. According to him, mutual aid, or cooperation, within a species has been an important factor in the evolution of social institutions. Solidarity is essential for mutual aid; supportive activity towards other people does not result from the expectation of reward, but rather from instinctive feelings of solidarity.\n\nIn his introduction to the book, Kropotkin wrote: \"The number and importance of mutual-aid institutions which were developed by the creative genius of the savage and half-savage masses, during the earliest clan-period of mankind and still more during the next village-community period, and the immense influence which these early institutions have exercised upon the subsequent development of mankind, down to the present times, induced me to extend my researches to the later, historical periods as well; especially, to study that most interesting period – the free medieval city republics, whose universality and influence upon our modern civilization have not yet been duly appreciated. And finally, I have tried to indicate in brief the immense importance which the mutual-support instincts, inherited by mankind from its extremely long evolution, play even now in our modern society, which is supposed to rest upon the principle \"every one for himself, and the State for all,\" but which it never has succeeded, nor will succeed in realizing\". Kropotkin advocated an alternative economic and social system, which would be coordinated through a horizontal network of voluntary associations with goods distributed in compliance with the physical needs of the individual, rather than according to labour.\n\nSolidarity is an emerging concept in contemporary philosophy – it is subject to ongoing studies in various subfields of ethics and political philosophy.\n\nOne notable approach in bioethics is to identify solidarity primarily as a three-tiered practice enacted at the interpersonal, communal, and contractual and legal levels. This approach is driven by the quest to differentiate between the diverse applications of the concept and to clarify its meaning, both historically and in terms of its potential as a fruitful concept for contemporary moral, social and political issues.\n\nSolidarity is an integral element of Catholic social teaching. According to Pope Francis:\nThe Church's teaching on solidarity is explained in the Compendium of the Social Doctrine of the Church, and briefly summarised in the Catechism of the Catholic Church:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1569292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1569292", "title": "Stochastic electrodynamics", "text": "Stochastic electrodynamics\n\nStochastic electrodynamics (SED) is an extension of the de Broglie–Bohm interpretation of quantum mechanics, with the electromagnetic zero-point field (ZPF) playing a central role as the guiding pilot-wave. The theory is a deterministic nonlocal hidden-variable theory. It is distinct from other more mainstream interpretations of quantum mechanics such as QED, a stochastic electrodynamics of the Copenhagen interpretation and Everett's many-worlds interpretation. SED describes energy contained in the electromagnetic vacuum at absolute zero as a stochastic, fluctuating zero-point field. The motion of a particle immersed in this stochastic zero-point radiation generally results in highly nonlinear, sometimes chaotic or emergent, behaviour. Modern approaches to SED consider the quantum properties of waves and particles as well-coordinated emergent effects resulting from deeper (sub-quantum) nonlinear matter-field interactions.\nGiven the posited emergent nature of quantum laws in SED, it has been argued that they form a kind of \"quantum equilibrium\" that has an analogous status to that of thermal equilibrium in classical dynamics. In principle therefore, SED allows other \"quantum non-equilibrium\" distributions, for which the statistical predictions of quantum theory are violated. It is controversially argued that quantum theory is merely a special case of a much wider nonlinear physics, a physics in which non-local (superluminal) signalling is possible, and in which the uncertainty principle can be violated. It has also been proposed that inertia is one such emergent law. The reported results are subject to considerable argument, with accusations that it leads to the possibility of anti-gravity, reactionless drives or free energy.\n\nThe background field is introduced as a Lorentz force in the (classical) Abraham-Lorentz-Dirac equation (see: Abraham–Lorentz–Dirac force), where the classical statistics of the electric and magnetic fields and quadratic combinations thereof are chosen to match the vacuum expectation values of the equivalent operators in QED. The field is generally represented as a discrete sum of Fourier components each with amplitude and phase that are independent classical random variables, distributed so that the statistics of the fields are isotropic and unchanged under boosts. This prescription is such that each Fourier mode at frequency (f) is expected to have an energy of hf/2, equaling that of the ground state of the vacuum modes of QED. Unless cut off, the total field has an infinite energy density, with a spectral energy density (per unit frequency per unit volume) [2h/c]f where h is Planck's constant. Consequently, the background field is a classical version of the electromagnetic ZPF of QED, though in SED literature the field is commonly referred to simply as 'the ZPF' without making that distinction. It should be noted that any finite cutoff frequency of the field itself would be incompatible with Lorentz invariance. For this reason, some researchers prefer to think of cutoff frequency in terms of the response of particles to the field rather than as a property the field itself.\n\nStochastic electrodynamics is a term for a collection of research efforts of many different styles based on the ansatz that there exists a Lorentz invariant random electromagnetic radiation. The basic ideas have been around for a long time; but Marshall (1963) and Brafford seem to have been the originators of the more concentrated efforts starting in the 1960s. Thereafter Timothy Boyer, Luis de la Peña and Ana María Cetto were perhaps the most prolific contributors in the 1970s and beyond. Others have made contributions, alterations and proposals concentrating on the application of SED to problems in QED. A separate thread has been the investigation of an earlier proposal by Walther Nernst attempting to use the SED notion of a classical ZPF to explain \"inertial mass\" as due to a vacuum reaction.\n\nIn 2000, Trevor Marshall derived an experimental prediction of SED dubbed \"spontaneous parametric up-conversion\" (SPUC) as a dual process to the well-known spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC). SPUC was tested in 2009 and 2010 with positive results.\n\nIn 2010, Cavalleri \"et al.\" introduced SEDS ('pure' SED, as they call it, plus spin) as a fundamental improvement which they claim potentially overcomes all the known drawbacks to SED. They also claim SEDS resolves four observed effects that are so far unexplained by QED, i.e., 1) the physical origin of the ZPF, and its natural upper cutoff; 2) an anomaly in experimental studies of the neutrino rest mass; 3) the origin and quantitative treatment of 1/f noise; and 4) the high-energy tail (~ 10 eV) of cosmic rays. Two double-slit electron diffraction experiments are proposed to discriminate between QM and SEDS.\n\nInconclusive but encouraging experiments were carried out in 2012 by Dmitriyeva and Moddel in which emissions in \"... infrared was clearly observed\" which they could not explain using \"...conventional thermodynamic models\".\n\nIn 2013 Auñon et al. showed that Casimir and Van der Waals interactions are a particular case of stochastic forces from electromagnetic sources when the broad Planck's spectrum is chosen and the wavefields are non-correlated. Addressing fluctuating partially coherent light emitters with a tailored spectral energy distribution in the optical range, this establishes the link between stochastic electrodynamics and coherence theory; henceforth putting forward a way to optically create and control both such zero-point fields as well as Lifshitz forces of thermal fluctuations. In addition, this opens the path to build many more stochastic forces on employing narrow-band light sources for bodies with frequency-dependent responses.\n\nIn a 2014 dissertation Carlos Alberto de Oliveira Henriques measured the energy shift in the atomic levels of Xe atoms as they passed through nano-porous Casimir membranes. Some evidence of anomalous radiation were observed, however, he was not able to distinguish this radiation conclusively from the background due to said shortcomings in the detector.\n\nSED has been used in attempts to provide a \"classical\" explanation for effects previously considered to require quantum mechanics (here restricted to the Schrödinger equation and the Dirac equation and QED) for their explanation. It has also been used to motivate a classical ZPF-based underpinning for gravity and inertia. There is no universal agreement on the successes and failures of SED, either in its congruence with standard theories of quantum mechanics, QED, and gravity, or in its compliance with observation. The following SED-based explanations are relatively uncontroversial and are free of criticism at the time of writing:\n\nThe following SED-based calculations and SED-related claims are more controversial and some have been subject to published criticism:\n\n\nAccording to Haisch and Rueda, inertia arises as an \"electromagnetic drag force\" on accelerating particles, produced by interaction with the zero-point field. In their 1998 Ann. Phys. paper (see citations), they speak of a \"Rindler flux\", presumably meaning the Unruh effect, and claim to have computed a nonzero \"z.p.f. momentum\". This computation rests upon their claim to compute a nonzero \"z.p.f. Poynting vector\".\n\nThese proposals for zero-point energy suggest a source of low or no cost free energy from the vacuum as well as the hope of developing a reactionless drive. NASA continues to make assessments: In the usual interpretation of vacuum energy it is not possible to use it to do work. However, SED takes a rather more literal, classical interpretation, and views the very high energy density of the electromagnetic vacuum as propagating waves, which must necessarily carry considerable energy and momentum flux, ordinarily not evident in the absence of matter, because the flux is isotropic.\n\nArthur C. Clarke describes a \"SHARP drive\" (for Sakharov, Haisch, Rueda and Puthoff) in his 1997 novel \"\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17718279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17718279", "title": "Telugu-Kannada alphabet", "text": "Telugu-Kannada alphabet\n\nBetween 1100 CE and 1400 CE Kannada script and Telugu script separated from Old-Kannada script (Halegannada script) or Kadamba script or Bhattiprolu script. The Chalukyas influenced the modern form of Telugu script and its similarity with modern Kannada script.\n\nOld Kannada script is the continuation of the Kadamba script, which was used for writing Kannada and Telugu languages. Telugu and Kannada Scripts are strikingly similar. \n\nThe Dravidian family comprising about \"73 languages\" including Telugu, Kannada, Tamil and Malayalam. Kannada abugida was developed between the 1st and 3rd centuries CE from Chalukya and Kadamba scripts, descendants of Brahmi. Old Kannada script is about 1800 years old, developed into Modern Telugu and Modern Kannada scripts. The Telugu script is closely related to Kannada, earliest known inscriptions dates back to the 6th century CE, poetry begins to appear in the 11th century. New written standard emerged in Telugu during the second half of the 20th century.\n\nDuring 4th to 7th centuries AD the Early Bādāmi Chālukyās and Early Banavasi Kadambās used early form of \"Kannada script\" in inscriptions. The early Eastern Chalukyas and Salankayana who ruled the Kannada and Telugu speaking areas.\n\nKannada and Telugu belongs to Dravidian family of languages in southern India, Saatavaahanas introduced the Brahmi to present day Telugu and Kannada speaking regions. Kannada and Telugu scripts are categorized under Old Kannada script. Kannada became a literate language much ahead of Telugu language. Both Kannada and Telugu produced the poetry during the eighth century. The full-fledged literary works in Kannada produced in ninth century, two centuries before the works available in Telugu. The combined Kannada-Telugu script called as \"Old Kannada\". Telugu writers waited till 11th century because of socio-political factors (royal patronage, influence of Buddhism and Jainism).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25490788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25490788", "title": "Third culture kid", "text": "Third culture kid\n\nThird culture kids (TCK) are persons raised in a culture other than their parents' or the culture of the country named on their passport (where they are legally considered native) for a significant part of their early development years. They are exposed to a greater variety of cultural influences. The term can refer to both adults and children, as the term \"kid\" points more to an individual's formative or developmental years, but for clarification, sometimes the term adult third culture kid (ATCK) is used.\n\nTCKs move between cultures before they have had the opportunity to fully develop their personal and cultural identity. The first culture of such individuals refers to the culture of the country from which the parents originated, the second culture refers to the culture in which the family currently resides, and although not widely agreed upon by the TCK community, some sources refer to the third culture as the amalgamation of these two cultures.\n\nIn the early 21st century, the number of bilingual children in the world was about the same as the number of monolingual children. TCKs are often exposed to a second (or third, fourth, etc.) language while living in their host culture, being physically exposed to the environment where the native language is used in practical aspects of life. \"TCKs learn some languages in schools abroad and some in their homes or in the marketplaces of a foreign land. ... Some pick up languages from the nannies in the home or from playmates in the neighborhood\" (Bell-Villada et al. 23). This language immersion is why TCKs are often bilingual, and sometimes even multilingual.\n\nThe term \"third culture kid\" was first coined by researchers John and Ruth Useem in the 1950s, who used it to describe the children of American citizens working and living abroad. Ruth Useem first used the term after her second year-long visit to India with her fellow sociologist/anthropologist husband and three children.\n\nUseem et al. (1963) depicted individuals who have undergone such an experience as having distinct standards of interpersonal behavior, work-related norms, codes of lifestyle and perspectives, and communication. This creates a new cultural group that does not fall into their home or host culture, but rather share a culture with all other TCKs. In 1993 she wrote:\nKay Branaman Eakin, the former Education Counselor for the United States Department of State, worked with American families returning to the United States after having lived abroad. She described a TCK as \"someone who, as a child, has spent a significant period of time in one or more culture(s) other than [his/her] own, thus integrating elements of those cultures and their own birth culture, into a third culture.\" In 1984, author and researcher Norma McCaig used the term \"global nomad\", which is synonymous with TCK, but was used in order to take into account that the child's situation was as a result of a parent or parents' career or life choice(s).\n\nThird culture kids can also be referred to as cultural hybrids, cultural chameleons, and global nomads. TCKs are particularly adept at building relationships with other cultures while not possessing a cultural identity of their own. It has been discussed in the past that the characteristics that have been put forth by prominent researchers in the TCK field have only been discussed when referring to American children who have lived abroad. However, there has been further research done on TCKs that shows that the same characteristics described by Pollock and Useem in the most prominent TCK literature also apply to individuals from other nations who have also lived abroad for extended periods of time during their developmental years.\nThere are benefits and challenges to being a TCK according to various researchers on the subject. The term TCKs may be applied to all social classes and although there are certain distinctions between TCKs and immigrants, it can include immigrant and refugee students (Dewaele 8c van Oudenhoven, 2009).\n\n\n\nOne of the challenges of being a third culture kid during childhood is developing a sense of belonging, commitment, and attachment to a culture. These factors play a strong role in one's self-esteem and identity, and are especially apparent as present or not present among TCKs. There are psychological benefits to being a bi-culturally competent individual, meaning that adjustment to the host culture and repatriation do not pose a difficulty for the individual. Individuals who do not experience this same smooth transition into the new culture are referred to as \"culturally rootless\" and \"cultural homelessness\". Culturally homeless (CH) individuals often experience confusion over their identity and especially because the TCK is frequently abroad during the adolescent development years when identity is most solidified psychologically.\n\nWhen individuals who have spent a significant number of their developmental years in a host culture and have not been able to adapt, develop an identity, and do not feel as though they belong, they are considered \"culturally homeless\". Cultural homelessness has been found to have both advantages and disadvantages, at times to being associated with low self-esteem, perceiving less control over one's own life, and an unsatisfactory level of experience with belonging and attachment.\n\nTCKs have the unique experience of being exposed to and living in cultures different from their home culture for extended periods of time. Based on only one source, this has been found to affect their level of authoritarianism, both positively and negatively depending on the circumstance of the TCK. Within the context of the methodology and subjects selected in the study, authoritarianism measurements were used by the researchers on individuals, and high scores on the right-wing authoritarian scale (RWA) have been found to possess the following three personality characteristics: a tendency to submit themselves to authority figures, a willingness to commit an act of aggression for the sake of this authority or authorities, and possessing significant concern with acting according to the rules and norms of their group.\n\nThough research initially largely focused on children in missionary families or children of diplomats, it has since expanded to other populations, including non-U.S. citizens. The researchers who pioneered the TCK research, such as Ruth Useem, were not expecting to find as many participants as they did. Useem and Cottrell, for example, were seeking at least 100 participants to respond to a survey that they believed to be \"unconsciously long\" but instead had 680 participants (ranging in age from 25–84 years) respond to the questionnaire. Instances like this one indicate to researchers the potential in exploring a subject matter that is still open to much research.\n\nFrom the research that has been conducted on TCKs, it has been found that subjects are generally more tolerant of different cultures and of people of different backgrounds than subjects from the same home country who are not TCKs. In addition, TCKs generally feel that they are better able to adapt to new cultures and understand how to behave appropriately in these new environments. Researcher and teacher Wenda Sheard surveyed some of her multi-cultural students, most of whom were either fluent in two or more languages, and found that many felt that they had an increased tolerance of other cultures. However, as one student explained, part of this tolerance was out of necessity for maintaining a healthy social life in one's new environment and culture.\nIn a study by Dewaele and van Oudenhoven (2009), it was found that TCKs scored higher on the open-mindedness scale on the Multicultural Personality Questionnaire (MPQ). According to the study, \"this dimension [of the test] evaluates for open and unprejudiced attitudes toward out-group members, as well as diverse cultural norms and values.\"\n\nThough the intellectual effect of being a TCK has not yet been widely explored, there has been some research in the area. One particular study by Lee and Bain (2007) that was found to have significant findings was conducted on young native Koreans who had recently moved to the United States and were attending school in America. The researchers were looking to see how these students would respond to explicit instruction aimed to work with their originality and fluency and that is specific to TCKs. This was measured through the level of creativity demonstrated in assigned tasks given to the students. TCKs were found to be able to demonstrate significantly higher levels of creativity and originality for problem solving than TCKs not given this same explicit instruction. This study has implications for the ways that TCKs can be instructed differently from the traditional curriculum to enhance their creativity and problem solving abilities because of their third culture experience.\n\nIntellectual effect is also possible through differences in choosing to continue studies in higher education after high school. In 2001, it was found by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics that 61.7 percent of 2001 high school graduates were enrolled in college. That same year, it was found that 95 percent of the TCK population were either enrolled or had some college education. Twenty-nine percent of this population had received an advanced degree, which is also higher than the percentage of the general population.\n\nMuch of the literature and research surrounding TCKs has found that these individuals are more open to learning new languages, demonstrate more flexibility when interacting with a novel culture than their monoculture peers, and a greater interest in continuing a global nomad lifestyle, which includes an interest in international careers. It has been found that women are more inclined to seek out interpersonal relationships while men are more task-oriented in their relationships and choices. Such findings were used in the hypothesis of a study conducted by Gerner & Perry (2000) that predicted that gender differences would also be found in the cultural acceptance and experiences of TCKs.\n\nBoth non-U.S. citizen females and U.S. citizen females were found to have more positive ratings of cultural acceptance, acquisition or exposure to a new language, travel, and interest in going into an international career in the future and were less prone to stereotypes.\n\nWith the growing number of international business, military placements, and immigration there has been a growing number of TCKs. Third culture kids are being educated in a culture that is not their own. Schools and teachers need to be aware of the culture differences these students face. Studies have found that educators and counselors should be culturally competent and possess the knowledge to properly educate these type of students. This would create an effective and optimal environment for their learning and adjusting abilities. Research conducted on TCKs have been found to need special attention during their transition phase. The stress and grief students feel during transitional phases can distort their psycho-social development which can affect their grades and school work. Therefore, Third Culture Kid students need a comfortable and inviting school setting to offset the effect of their transition. The best way for counselors to work with TCKs is to have sound knowledge about the students and their unique characteristics.\n\nAn empirical research was done by Katholiki Georgiades, Michael H. Boyle, and Kelly A. Fife over the Emotional and Behavior Problems Among Adolescent Students, in specific immigrant students. They examined the relationship between immigrants and racial/ethnic congruence in school. They hypothesized that school belonging is the connection between the congruency and the emotional problems. Although their study was unable to find enough evidence to support their hypothesis they agree that school belonging will influence emotional behavioral problems. According to other studies, TCKs are proven to have less emotional stability than those who grew up in more culturally and socially stable environment.\n\nTCKs who have parents or guardians affiliated with the military have varying levels of exposure to local culture. This is due to the possibility of living on base or off base. TCKs who live off base or who are not closely affiliated with the military (such as contractors) will have higher exposure and cultural shaping, while those who spend the majority of their time on the base will have lower exposure and minimal cultural shaping. Military children who are immersed in local culture from birth tend to show an extremely high level of cultural shaping, and upon relocation they are likely to cling to said culture for years, if not their lifetime. Relocation for these particular TCKs has shown to be particularly marring for them emotionally.\nSee also Military brat (U.S. subculture).\n\nSome of these TCKs may grow up moving from country to country in the diplomatic corps (see Foreign Service Brat) while others may live their lives near military bases.\n\nMissionary Kids (MKs) typically spend the most time overseas, of any TCKs, in one country. 85% of MKs spend more than 10 years in foreign countries and 72% lived in only one foreign country. Of all TCKs, MKs generally have the most interaction with the local populace and the least interaction with people from their passport country. They are also the most likely of the TCKs to integrate themselves into the local culture. 83% of missionary kids have at least one parent with an advanced degree.\nMissionary kids struggle adjusting to the parents culture; the majority of MKs identify mostly with the country in which their parents served.\n\nPriests' Kids (PKs) or Pastor's Kids are sometimes considered TCKs because they, like military brats, grow up moving from place to place regularly, but are sometimes excluded because they do not often grow up outside their passport country.\n\nAnother career that can lead to TCKs is a career in business. Sixty-three percent of business TCKs have lived in foreign countries at least 10 years but are more likely than children in missionary families to live in multiple countries. Business TCKs have fairly high interaction with both their host nationals and people from their host country.\n\nNot all TCK families have one of the fours careers listed above. Other careers include working for an intergovernmental agency (for example, the Nuclear Energy Agency, the Commonwealth Secretariat, and the International Agency of the Francophonie), an international non-governmental organization (for example, an international school or serving as international staff of the United Nations or one of their agencies), and a local organization such as a hospital. Working in media and/or athletic industries (for example, Wally Szczerbiak) can also mean being moved abroad. Like most of the other careers that send employees abroad, involvement with the host culture can vary greatly.\n\nRecent research into the 'other' category has identified a subgroup of TCKs now labelled EdKids. These are children who relocate to various countries with their parents who are educators in the international schools. This creates a unique paradigm of a nuclear family whose family-work-school-social experiences are intertwined.\n\nThird culture kids, with their international experience, generally value the international aspect of their lives. In a survey given to TCKs in 2001, there was a strong interest among TCK participants to continue to travel as they move into adulthood and their future careers, and many continued to maintain their internationally acquired languages. It was also found in these surveys that approximately half of the participants continue to travel at least once a year and that just a little under 15 percent travel for business. TCKs have also been found to report selecting to study majors while in college that could have the options of having international careers. Some of these fields of study include business, nursing, and teaching English as a foreign language.\n\nBelow are tables showing some of the fields that TCK go into.\n\nMost international TCKs are expected to speak English and some countries require their expatriate families to be proficient with the English language. This is largely because most international schools use the English language as the norm.\n\nFamilies tend to seek out schools whose principal languages they share, and ideally one which mirrors their own educational system. Many countries have American schools, French schools, British schools, German Schools and 'International Schools' which often follow one of the three International Baccalaureate programs. These will be populated by expatriates' children and some children of the local upper middle class. They do this in an effort to maintain linguistic stability and to ensure that their children do not fall behind due to linguistic problems. Where their own language is not available, families will often choose English-speaking schools for their children. They do this because of the linguistic and cultural opportunities being immersed in English might provide their children when they are adults, and because their children are more likely to have prior exposure to English than to other international languages. This poses the potential for non-English speaking TCKs to have a significantly different experience from TCKs for whom English is a native language. Research on TCKs from Japan, Denmark, Italy, Germany, the United States and Africa has shown that TCKs from different countries share more in common with other TCKs than they do with their own peer group from their passport country.\n\nA few sociologists studying TCKs, however, argue that the commonality found in international TCKs is not the result of true commonality, but rather the researcher's bias projecting expectations upon the studied subculture. They believe that some of the superficial attributes may mirror each other, but that TCKs from different countries are really different from one another. The exteriors may be the same, but that the understanding of the world around them differs.\n\nIn Japan, the use of the term \"third culture kids\" to refer to children returned from living overseas is not universally accepted; they are typically referred to both in Japanese and in English as \"kikokushijo\", literally \"returnee children\", a term which has different implications. Public awareness of \"kikokushijo\" is much more widespread in Japan than awareness of TCKs in the United States, and government reports as early as 1966 recognised the need for the school system to adapt to them. However, views of \"kikokushijo\" have not always been positive; in the 1970s, especially, they were characterised in media reports and even by their own parents as \"educational orphans\" in need of \"rescue\" to reduce their foreignness and successfully reintegrate them into Japanese society.\n\nResearch has been done on American TCKs to identify various characteristics:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51893360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51893360", "title": "Tone policing", "text": "Tone policing\n\nTone policing (also tone trolling, tone argument and tone fallacy) is an \"ad hominem\" and antidebate appeal based on genetic fallacy. It attempts to detract from the validity of a statement by attacking the tone in which it was presented rather than the message itself.\n\nIn Bailey Poland's book, \"Harassment, Abuse, and Violence Online\", she suggests that tone policing is frequently aimed at women and attempts to derail or silence opponents who may be lower on the \"privilege ladder\". She writes that \"In changing their tactics to criticizing how the women spoke instead of what the women said, the men created an environment in which the outcome of a dispute was not decided on the merits of an argument but on whether the men chose to engage with the arguments in good faith.\" and adds that tone policing is frequently aimed at women as a way to prevent them from making points in discussions..\n\nIn Keith Bybee's \"How Civility Works\", he notes that feminists, Black Lives Matter protesters, and anti-war protesters have been told to \"calm down and try to be more polite\". He argues that tone policing is a means to deflect attention from injustice and relocate the problem in the style of the complaint, rather than address the complaint itself. In his \"Letter from a Birmingham Jail\", Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. condemned this type of silencing, writing that he was \"gravely disappointed\" with the \"white moderate, who is more devoted to ‘order’ than justice.\"\n\nWhile \"ad hominem\" fallacies of relevance are often autologies, critics have argued that tone policing is a flawed concept simply because it is autological. As discussed by \"The Frisky's\" Rebecca Vipond Brink, the act of labeling tone policing may itself be considered tone policing, as \"The problem with telling someone that you have a right to express yourself as angrily as you want to without them raising an objection is that you’re also inherently telling them that they don’t have a right to be angry about the way you’re addressing them.\"\n\nBruce Byfield has written that steering observers away from the validity of an argument is only one of many possible motivations for raising concerns about tone during a heated debate. An article on The Good Men Project has argued that moderating tone, whether or not one cares about civility, is useful for increasing persuasive impact on the listener.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10648468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10648468", "title": "Transmissibility (vibration)", "text": "Transmissibility (vibration)\n\nTransmissibility is the ratio of output to input.\n\nTransmissibility: formula_1\n\nformula_2 means amplification and maximum amplification occurs when forcing frequency (formula_3) and natural frequency (formula_4) of the system coincide.\n\nThere is no unit designation for transmissibility, although it may sometimes be referred to as the \"Q factor\".\n\nThe transmissibility is used in calculation of passive heave compensation efficiency.\n\n"}
{"id": "42051711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42051711", "title": "Vulgar auteurism", "text": "Vulgar auteurism\n\nVulgar auteurism is a term used to describe a movement in latter-day cinephilia in film criticism associated with championing or reappraising filmmakers, mostly working in the action genre, whose work has supposedly been overlooked or unfairly maligned by the critical mainstream. Initially associated with the social network and streaming service Mubi and its online film magazine, \"Notebook\", vulgar auteurism became a controversial topic in the cinephile community following the publication of an article in the \"Village Voice\" in 2013. It has been described as \"a critical movement committed to assessing the 'unserious' artistry of popcorn cinema with absolute seriousness.\"\n\nVulgar auteurism derives its name from the auteur theory, a key component of film criticism which posits that the director is the author (\"auteur\") of a film and that films should be analyzed in terms of how they fit into a director's larger body of work. Also known as \"auteurism,\" the auteur theory was introduced by French critics associated with the film magazine \"Cahiers du cinéma\" during the 1950s and popularized in the United States in the 1960s by Andrew Sarris.\n\nSeveral critics, including Richard Brody of \"The New Yorker\" and Scott Foundas of \"Variety\", have drawn parallels between the earliest French and American proponents of the auteur theory and vulgar auteurism. However, many commentators on the movement consider vulgar auteurism to be distinct from the classical auteur theory, pointing to its concern with visual style over theme. The question of whether vulgar auteurism is a legitimate separate movement or a subset of the auteur theory remains a source of controversy in the film critic community.\nAccording to film critic Peter Labuza, vulgar auteurism \"seems to have been an unconscious movement before it ever had a name.\" The earliest criticism identified as exhibiting \"vulgar auteurism\" was published in the Canadian film magazine \"Cinema Scope\" in 2006 and 2007. \"Cinema Scope\" writer Andrew Tracy coined the term in his 2009 article, \"Vulgar Auteurism: The Case of Michael Mann\". Initially pejorative, the term was repurposed by Mubi user John Lehtonen. In the early-going, the theory was explored not through text, but through images via a Tumblr simply entitled \"Vulgar Auteurism\", spearheaded by Lehtonen and filmmaker Kurt Walker, with contributions from Mubi critics Adam Cook and Daniel Kasman. Over the years which followed, Mubi's online film magazine began to publish more and more articles defending genres and directors which were unpopular with the critical mainstream. \n\nVulgar auteurist ideas gained currency when one of the movement's leading proponents, critic Ignatiy Vishnevetsky, became the co-host of the television program \"\", produced by Roger Ebert. However, while \"vulgar auteurist\" criticism was becoming popular, the term and the movement to which it corresponded remained obscure until the publication of an article by Calum Marsh, \"Fast & Furious & Elegant: Justin Lin and the Vulgar Auteurs\", in \"The Village Voice\" on May 24, 2013.\n\nMarsh's article was immediately controversial. While some took issue with the films and filmmakers being championed by the proponents of vulgar auteurism, others took issue with the idea that vulgar auteurism was a movement distinct from the auteur theory.\n\nOne of the most vocal opponents of vulgar auteurism is former \"Village Voice\" critic Nick Pinkerton, \n\n\n"}
{"id": "27646957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27646957", "title": "Western snowy plover", "text": "Western snowy plover\n\nThe western snowy plover (\"Charadrius nivosus nivosus\") is a small wader in the plover bird family. It breeds in the southern and western United States and the Caribbean. \n\nOn March 5, 1993 the western snowy plover was listed as a threatened species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973. As of June 19, 2012, the habitat along the California, Oregon, and Washington Coasts have been listed as critical.\n\n"}
