{"id": "13902910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13902910", "title": "Adze (folklore)", "text": "Adze (folklore)\n\nThe adze is a vampiric being in Ewe folklore. The Ewe are located in Togo and Ghana. In the wild, the adze takes the form of a firefly, though it will transform into human shape upon capture. When in human form, the adze has the power to possess humans.\n\nPeople, male or female, possessed by an adze are viewed as witches (\"abasom\" in the Ewe language). The adze's influence would negatively affect the people who lived around their host. A person is suspected of being possessed in a variety of situations, including: women with brothers (especially if their brother's children fared better than their own), old people (if the young suddenly started dying and the old stayed alive) and the poor (if they envied the rich). The adze's effects are generally felt by the possessed victim's family or those of whom the victim is jealous.\n\nIn firefly form, the adze would pass through closed doors at night and suck blood from people as they slept. The victim would fall sick and die. Tales of the creature and its effects were probably an attempt to describe the potentially deadly effects of mosquitoes and malaria. There is no defense against an adze.\n\n"}
{"id": "40617839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40617839", "title": "Alamy", "text": "Alamy\n\nAlamy (registered as Alamy Limited) is a privately owned stock photography agency launched in 1999. Its headquarters are in Milton Park, near Abingdon, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom. It has a development and operations centre at Techno park in Trivandrum, Kerala, India and a sales office in Brooklyn, New York, United States.\n\nAlamy maintains an online archive of over 125 million still images, illustrations and hundreds of thousands of videos contributed by agencies and independent photographers or collected from news archives, museums and national collections. Its suppliers include both professional and amateur photographers, stock agencies, news archives, museums, national collections and public domain content copied from Wikimedia Commons. Its clients are from the photography, publishing and advertising industries and the general public.\n\nJames West, a graduate of Edinburgh University, is the CEO of Alamy and co-founded the company with Mike Fischer in 1999. Fischer, the current chairman and co–founder of the firm, was also co-founder and CEO of RM plc.\n\n\nOn 16 February 2015 Alamy informed its members of changes to the contributor contract. These changes were condemned by the photography industry bodies, the National Union of Journalists and Editorial Photographers UK (EPUK) who said \"Alamy, it seems is trying to establish a perpetual and irrevocable contract with images that they have previously sold on our behalf at a time when this was not the case, which allows them to continue selling them even after the contract with the photographer has been terminated. ... The provision would last for the full term of copyright and we see it as unreasonably extensive.\" Alamy responded by stating that the changes only reflect the company work style and do not represent a significant shift. Their reply, in turn, was characterized by the documentary photographer and Alamy contributor David Hoffman as \"misleading and evasive\".\n\nCarol M. Highsmith sued Alamy in July 2016 for selling photographs without attribution she had donated to the Library of Congress. License Compliance Services, part of Alamy, had also sent an e-mail to the \"This is America!\" foundation, a foundation that was founded by Highsmith herself. The e-mail stated \"We have seen that an image or image(s) represented by Alamy has been used for online use by your company. According to Alamy’s records your company doesn’t have a valid license for use of the image(s).\" and demanded to pay a settlement fee of $120 for the infringement Highsmith was accused of. The photograph in question was not an infringement but an original work of authorship of Highsmith. Highsmith's claim was dismissed because she had signed away her copyrights, putting the photographs in the public domain.\n\n"}
{"id": "22201812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22201812", "title": "Anjou Legendarium", "text": "Anjou Legendarium\n\nThe Anjou Legendarium is a Gothic illuminated manuscript of a collection of stories from the life of saints important to the House of Anjou of Hungary. It was made on the occasion of the journey of Charles I of Hungary and his son Prince Andrew to Naples in Italy in 1330.\n\nThe legendarium was a picture book intended for children with a brief text accompanying pictures. The painters of the work came from Bologna and painted in the style of the trecento.\n\nPortions of the manuscript can be found in the Vatican Library, the Morgan Library and the Hermitage Museum. The medieval Legendarium of more than 140 pages contains images and scenes of the life of Jesus Christ, the Hungarian bishop Saint Gerard Sagredo, the prince Saint Emeric of Hungary, the King Saint Ladislaus I of Hungary, the Polish bishop Stanislaus of Szczepanów, Saint Francis of Assisi, Saint Martin, Saint George and of many other legendary Christians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31747876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31747876", "title": "Attribution-value model", "text": "Attribution-value model\n\nThe attribution-value model is a framework for understanding individual differences in prejudice, developed by Chris Crandall and colleagues. It states that not only do minorities possess undesirable characteristics incongruent with the majority, but also that minorities are also responsible for them. For example, overweight individuals are viewed as “lazy” and unable to control themselves. This belief that targeted groups should be held accountable for their status arouses negative emotional reactions towards them.\n\nA study by Crandall and his colleagues found that dislike towards the overweight was in fact correlated with beliefs that weight is a matter of choice (e.g. “if fat people would only choose to not eat so much, they would not be fat”). Similarly, Willian Dejong (1980) asked participants to give their impression of a woman who was either overweight because of a medical condition, overweight for no apparent reason, or average weight. The woman depicted as overweight for no apparent reason was rated less favorably than both the woman of average weight and the overweight woman with a medical cause. \n\nThe model can also extend to prejudices against homosexuality. Sakalli had Turkish undergraduates complete a homophobia scale and answer questions about the origins of homosexuality, cultural attitudes toward homosexuality, and their own gender and sexual preferences. In general, the participants were prejudiced against gay men and lesbians; the participants who thought that homosexuality was controllable had more negative attitudes toward gay men and lesbians than did those who thought that homosexuality was uncontrollable. In a similar study, Nierman found that the same prejudices existed in American undergraduates, but controllability and cultural value, accounted for only 25.3% of the U.S. variance, while they accounted for 53% in the Sakalli study. Further, those who believe that homosexuality is a result of biology rather than choice express lower levels of anti-homosexual beliefs.\n\nAs an accommodation to this model, Haslam et al. suggest that two dimensions people use to categorize social groups may also account for differences in attributions. According to these dimensions, groups may be categorized based on a dimension of naturalness or entitativity. The dimension of naturalness refers to the degree that group membership is identified on a biological level. The dimension of entitativity refers to the degree that group membership is defined based on group members being similar to each other.\nSome groups such as racial or gender related groups are noted as being high on both dimensions of categorization, however, other groups may possess strength in one dimension over the others. Gay men and lesbians are seen high in the dimension of entitativity but low in the dimension of naturalness. \nUltimately, findings from Haslam et al., show that when attribution values towards prejudice are regarding the naturalness dimension group members can’t be held accountable for membership related to a biological factor that can not be controlled. However, groups such as gays or lesbians relate more to the entitativity dimension, and attribution value related to prejudice show a stronger association between prejudice and these groups due to cultural beliefs or stigmatization of negative groups. \n\nFollowing Gordon Allport (1954). Haslam et al. looked to see if beliefs with a fixed social category related with prejudice towards blacks, women, and gay men. He found that strong relationships exist between these beliefs and anti-gay attitudes, while the relationship to women and blacks was weak by comparison.\n\n"}
{"id": "13377152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13377152", "title": "Año Cristiano", "text": "Año Cristiano\n\nThe Año Cristiano is a series of books published annually during the 19th century. An almanac of sorts, each volume (or set of volumes) offers a complete calendar for a particular Roman Catholic year.\n\nIt was compiled by Jean Croiset (1656-1738) and published at Toulouse from 1812. The \"Año Cristiano\" is a Spanish translation published at Barcelona, 1835-55.\n"}
{"id": "22767486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22767486", "title": "Ballotpedia", "text": "Ballotpedia\n\nBallotpedia is a nonpartisan online political encyclopedia. Founded in 2007, it covers American federal, state, and local politics, elections, and public policy. Ballotpedia is sponsored by the Lucy Burns Institute, a nonprofit organization based in Middleton, Wisconsin. As of 2014, Ballotpedia employed 34 writers and researchers; the website said it had an editorial staff of over 50 in 2016.\n\nBallotpedia's stated goal is \"to inform people about politics by providing accurate and objective information about politics at all levels of government.\" The website \"provides information on initiative supporters and opponents, financial reports, litigation news, status updates, poll numbers, and more.\" It originally was a \"community-contributed web site, modeled after Wikipedia\" which is now edited by paid staff. It \"contains volumes of information about initiatives, referenda, and recalls.\"\n\nIn 2008, \"InfoWorld\" called Ballotpedia one of the \"Top 20 Election Day Web sites and online tools.\"\n\nAccording to the \"Colorado Springs Gazette\", \"Ballotpedia is a nonprofit wiki encyclopedia that originally used nonpartisan collaboration to gather political info for sharing.\"\n\nBallotpedia was founded by the Citizens in Charge Foundation in 2007. Ballotpedia was sponsored by the Sam Adams Alliance in 2008, along with Judgepedia and Sunshine Review. In 2009, their sponsorship was transferred to the nonprofit Lucy Burns Institute, based in Middleton, Wisconsin.\n\nOn July 9, 2013, Sunshine Review was acquired by the Lucy Burns Institute and merged into Ballotpedia. Judgepedia was merged into Ballotpedia in March 2015.\n\nJudgepedia was an online wiki-style encyclopedia covering the American legal system. In 2015, all content from Judgepedia was merged into Ballotpedia. It included a database of information on state and federal courts and judges.\n\nAccording to its original website, the goal of Judgepedia was \"to help readers discover and learn useful information about the court systems and judiciary in the United States.\"\n\nJudgepedia was sponsored by the Sam Adams Alliance in 2007, along with Ballotpedia and Sunshine Review. In 2009, sponsorship of Judgepedia was transferred to the Lucy Burns Institute, which merged Judgepedia into Ballotpedia in March 2015.\n\nJudgepedia had a weekly publication titled \"Federal Courts, Empty Benches\" which tracked the vacancy rate for Article III federal judicial posts.\n\nBallotpedia has been mentioned in \"The Washington Post\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> politics blog, \"The Fix\"; in \"The Wall Street Journal\"; and in \"Politico\".\n\nJudgepedia has also been cited in \"The Washington Post\" and its Volokh Conspiracy blog, in \"The Wall Street Journal\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Law Blog, and in \"The New York Times\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> \"The Caucus\" politics blog. The \"Orange County Register\" noted Judgepedia's coverage of Courts of Appeal and the Supreme Court. Judgepedia's profile of Elena Kagan was included in the Harvard Law School Library's guide to Kagan's Supreme Court nomination and the Law Library of Congress's guide to Kagan.\n\nIn 2015, Harvard University visiting scholar Carl Klarner conducted a study for Ballotpedia which found that state legislative elections have become less competitive over time, with 2014's elections being the least competitive elections in the past 40 years.\n\nBallotpedia has helped spotlight the unnecessarily complex language used in various U.S. ballot measures. In 2017, with a sample of 27 issues from nine states, the group determined that, on average, ballot descriptions required a graduate-level education to understand the complex wording of issues, with the average American adult only reading at a 7th to 8th grade reading level. A Georgia State University analysis of 1200 ballot measures over a decade showed that voters were more likely to skip complex issues altogether. Further, some ballot language confuses potential voters with the use of double negatives. A few states require plain-language explanations of ballot wording. \n"}
{"id": "691738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=691738", "title": "Benet's Reader's Encyclopedia of American Literature", "text": "Benet's Reader's Encyclopedia of American Literature\n\nBenet's Reader's Encyclopedia of American Literature was published in 1991 by Harper Collins Publishers. The book contains facts on American authors' major and lesser works, summarizes the critical consensus, gives biographical information and often lists secondary biographical and critical works.\n\n"}
{"id": "1651364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1651364", "title": "Big City Plan", "text": "Big City Plan\n\nThe Big City Plan is a major development plan for the city centre of Birmingham, England.\n\nStage 2 of the Big City Plan, the City Centre Masterplan was launched on 29 September 2010. This masterplan sets out how the city centre of Birmingham will be improved over the next 20 years. The plan identifies five key areas of development potentially worth £10 billion.\n\nThe aim of this ambitious plan will be to increase the size of the city core by 25%, improving transport connectivity throughout the seven ‘quarters’ that make up the city centre. It identifies how the city centre population will grow providing more than 5000 new homes and 50,000 new jobs, as well as the £600 million redevelopment of New Street station, opened in September 2015, a new Library of Birmingham which opened in September 2013 and Eastside City Park which was opened in 2012, the first new city centre park since Victorian times. It also sets out visionary proposals in which each of the seven 'quarters' will be able to evolve.\n\nThe city was subject to a widespread regeneration effort following the Birmingham Blitz during World War II. This public demand for modern buildings, combined with Victorian architectural styles falling out of favour, resulted in dozens of fine Victorian buildings like the intricate glass-roofed Birmingham New Street station, and the old Central Library being destroyed in the 1950s and 1960s by the city planners. These planning decisions were to have a profound effect on the image of Birmingham in subsequent decades, with the mix of concrete ring roads, shopping centres and tower blocks giving Birmingham a 'concrete jungle' tag. Sir Herbert Manzoni was made city engineer of Birmingham and his work included the construction of the Inner Ring Road, Middle Ring Road and the Outer Ring Road, which necessitated the purchase and clearance of vast areas of land. As well as this, he designated large areas of land redevelopment areas and set about clearing large areas of slums. The elevated roadways and the ring roads gave Birmingham the tag; \"Britain's motor city\". One commentator described Manzoni's vision of Birmingham as a \"Godless, concrete urban hell\", another a \"brutalist, concrete-dominated slave to the motor car\"\".\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Birmingham City Council decided that they needed to change the image Birmingham had to the public, and improve the livability of the city. The first main aim was to target the areas in the city centre that had not been developed following World War II, such as the canals. The council worked closely with Argent, a developer, who redeveloped the area around the canals into a mixed use scheme Brindleyplace, which began in 1994 and was completed in early 2009. This development followed the construction of the National Indoor Arena and the International Convention Centre, which were both completed in 1991.\n\nAnother major part of the plan was to redevelop the skyline of the city. The skyline mainly consisted of postwar office buildings and through the creation of the \"High Places\" document, the council aimed to encourage highrise development in the city once more.\n\nIn 2007, a report was commissioned by the Leader of the Council, Councillor Mike Whitby. The result was \"The Birmingham City Centre Masterplan: The Visioning Study\" by Professor Michael Parkinson. The Big City Plan was launched in February 2008. Between December 2008 and February 2009 there was an extensive public consultation stage, engaging with citizens in a variety of ways: a website, newspaper supplements, leaflets, posters, a conference, and even an exhibition on a bus that toured inner-city residential districts.\n\nFollowing the removal of the Inner Ring Road, which acted as a 'concrete collar' preventing expansion, the city centre is newly defined as being the area within the Middle Ring Road. The Big City Plan divided the now much bigger city centre into seven districts, each with its own distinct character.\n\n\nA large part of the scheme was the redevelopment of the Bull Ring, which has been an important feature of Birmingham since the Middle Ages, when its market was first held. It has been developed into a shopping centre twice, first in 1964, but its Brutalist architecture became much disliked by the public and the building was seen as a major part of Birmingham's \"concrete jungle\" image. Realising the need for major changes to the city centre, an alliance of investment and development companies was formed called the Birmingham Alliance who put the finance together to design and construct the new £500 million Bull Ring shopping centre, which was completed in 2003.\nIt is amongst the busiest shopping centres in the United Kingdom with 36.5 million visitors in 2004. It houses one of only four Selfridges department stores and the largest Debenhams outside London.The area is said to bring in around £1 billion per year, and has a footfall of around 36.9 million a year. \n\nThe Rotunda was refurbished by Urban Splash into residential apartments from an office building. The building was stripped to the core and floorplates before new full-height windows and cladding were added, plus two LED boards to the top of the building.\n\nDesigns were shown to the public in mid-February 2006 for a new Birmingham New Street station in a project known as Gateway Plus. The plans featured a foyer of open space with a multi-storey entrance. The roof was composed completely of glass to allow natural light to enter the entrance hall. The façade will have rounded edges and the Pallasades Shopping Centre above the station will remain.\n\nA planning application for outline planning permission was submitted to the council in August 2006 which shows a glass façade with rounded edges. The entrance on Station Street originally included two curved 130 metre tall towers on the site of Stephenson Tower. Due to the economic slowdown, the office space is not needed, and the \"twin towers\" plan has been shelved until the market picks up.\n<br>Work began on the new station in September 2009. The building work will be done in phases in an attempt to minimise disruption to passengers and shoppers. Building work is expected to last until at least 2015.\n\nThe Snowhill scheme adjacent to Snow Hill station is a large mixed-use development. Developed by Ballymore, it will feature two office blocks, a hotel tower and a 137-metre residential tower.\n\nOne Snowhill was the first building in the development. The accountancy firm KPMG has of office space in the building on a 20-year lease on floors 7 to 11. Following this, Barclays agreed to move its Midlands headquarters to One Snowhill. They are to take up of space on floors three to six on a 15-year lease with its own dedicated reception and meeting suite. 1,000 sales and operations staff will move into the office building. The pre-let to Barclays is believed to be the reason why they were comfortable to refinance the loan for the construction of the building. Snowhill One was completed in 2009.\n\nConstruction of Two Snowhill was suspended in 2009, with the basement level and slip form cores having been completed. The project restarted in 2011 with the shell and core works being completed in early 2013. Office floors 1 to 6 have been completed to 'Cat A' standard and are now available for lease. Floors 7 to 14 are currently being fitted out for legal firm, Wragge & Co who have signed up for of space, a new record for the Birmingham office market.\n\nIn a major move which will give Birmingham its first five-star hotel, Ballymore confirmed that US operator Starwood Hotels & Resorts has entered into an agreement to open a new 198 bedroom Westin Hotel & Spa. However, building has stopped due to the financial backer pulling out.\n\nAs part of the development, St Chads Circus was levelled with the underpasses filled in. A new square created adjacent to Saint Chad's Cathedral, with the aim of attracting more pedestrians to the area.\n\nThe coalition government has given funding approval for the extension of the Midland Metro from Birmingham Snow Hill station, passing through the shopping district to Birmingham New Street station. The £127 million state-of-the-art, electrically powered light rail system will also provide quick and easy access to Birmingham's business district and the Jewellery Quarter. Track laying was due to start in 2013 with a completion date of 2015 however following a number of delays the extension was finally opened on 30 May 2016. The extension is forecast to boost the regional economy by £50 million a year and create up to 1,300 sustainable new jobs.\nThis extension has now been carried out and there are other extensions planned for the future by TfWM.\n\nThe Library of Birmingham is a new library at Centenary Square beside the Birmingham Rep and Baskerville House, replacing Birmingham Central Library in 2013. It is part of a pedestrian axis extending from Centenary Square to the Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery. It is estimated the new library cost £193 million and is seen by Birmingham City Council as a flagship project for the Redevelopment of Birmingham and is set to become the largest public library in Britain.\n\nThe Cube is a 23 storey cuboid tower completed in 2010, in Birmingham, England. Designed by Ken Shuttleworth of Make Architects, the mixed use development contains 135 flats, 111,500 ft² (10,360 m²) of offices, shops, a hotel and a 'skyline' restaurant. It is the final phase of The Mailbox development. It has already been dubbed 'Tetris Tower' by some Brummies due to the exterior resembling the shapes on the game Tetris. The Highways Agency have relocated their offices to The Cube from Five Ways.\n\nThe Arena Central project includes offices, apartments, leisure facilities, bars and restaurants on Broad Street on the site of the former ATV / Central Television Studios which had closed in 1997. Construction has been delayed due to the property market slump.\n\nThe V Building is a proposed 51 storey landmark residential skyscraper. It will be located next to Alpha Tower, one of the tallest buildings in Birmingham, on what is currently a multi-level underground car park. The total cost of the entire scheme is expected to be £400 million, and the tower, £150 million. Planning permission was granted in 2005, however developers Miller Developments and Bridgehouse Capital have been granted a five-year extension on planning permission for the V Building meaning it must be built by 2015.\n\nIt is believed the larger Arena Central site may not be completed until 2030.\n\nRegal Tower is a proposed skyscraper to be constructed on the corner of Broad Street and Sheepcote Street in Birmingham, England. The proposal consists of a 56-storey tower, measuring tall, housing retail units, a luxury hotel, residential apartments and car parking. Provision has been made for 256 serviced apartments, although these could become additional hotel space. It is estimated it will cost £125million to construct, and when completed, it will become the tallest building in the city at 200m.\n\nLee Bank was a large inner-city council estate, which was one of five areas designated as a redevelopment area following World War 2. Originally slum housing, it was cleared by the council who constructed numerous tower blocks and low rise maisonettes. Lee Bank began to deteriorate following poor construction which led to inadequate maintenance. The estate was purchased by Optima Housing who aimed to redevelop the site.\n\nThe development, known as Park Central, is phase one of a larger area Optima are developing called Attwood Green. Phase one is being built by Crest Nicholson and has resulted in the demolition of all the tower blocks on the former Lee Bank estate. Park Central is one of Europe's largest urban renaissance projects.\n\nParadise, Birmingham, previously known as Paradise Circus, is a large site in the city centre in which the council has investigated options for redeveloping the site following the imminent demolition of Birmingham Central Library. At present, it is home to the Central Library, Birmingham Conservatoire (including the Adrian Boult Hall), Birmingham Library Theatre and Paradise Forum. It was designed by John Madin and the Brutalist architecture of the conglomerate of buildings is seen by many as contributing to Birmingham's concrete jungle image.\n\nThe Paradise, Birmingham redevelopment has been an important part of the redevelopment of the city centre, and plans from the 1990s suggested the construction of skyscrapers. The site was also identified as an appropriate location for a tall building under the \"High Places\" document. The development is estimated to cost £1 billion, and the council has joined with several major developers involved in projects across the city to establish plans for the site. However, a report into the financial feasibility of redeveloping the site warned the project was financially flawed and unlikely to succeed.\n\nAs of May 2007, Argent are investing £2 million to improve the interior of Paradise Forum.\n\nIn July 2012, Argent submitted an outline planning application to develop up to 10 new buildings, which include a new upgraded Copthorne and a concert hall for Birmingham City University’s school of music. Chamberlain Square and Centenary Square will be linked through news public squares whilst pedestrians will be encouraged around the site with new leisure, cultural and civic amenities. Granted planning permission be approved at the end of 2012, construction will begin in 2014 for an estimated completion date of 2017.\n\nEastside is a new area of Birmingham city centre made possible by the demolition of a large elevated road junction called Masshouse Circus and the Inner Ring Road. This was known as the \"concrete collar\". The council drew up plans to develop the former industrial area into a vibrant area. They also aimed to create a technology quarter, due to the proximity to Aston Science Park, and to create an education quarter, due to the proximity of Aston University.\n\nThe area has been sold to various developers who are being encouraged to build large mixed use schemes. The first building to be completed in Eastside was Millennium Point in the education quarter. This has since been followed by the completion of the New Technology Institute and the new Birmingham Metropolitan College Matthew Boulton campus.\n\nEastside City Park is a proposed urban park in Birmingham, United Kingdom, projected to cover at least . including the existing Park Street Gardens. The scheme is part of the Eastside regeneration programme, and is expected to be completed in 2013. It is the first city centre park created in Birmingham for 125 years and will double the amount of open space in the city centre.\n\nThe City Park Gate scheme located immediately adjacent to Moor Street station will deliver over of Grade A offices, a 200-room hotel, 250 residential apartments, and of retail. The scheme will also include a major new public square. An outline planning application for the development, designed by Make Architects, received consent on 10 May 2007. Construction is expected to begin in early 2008.\n\nMasshouse is a development with the construction of 13 new highrise blocks intended for public services, commerce and residential purposes. When completed, the blocks will have a prominent position on the Eastside skyline. Also planned for location at Masshouse was Birmingham Magistrates' Court, which was scheduled to begin building in March 2010 to be completed in early 2013, but has since been cancelled by the Conservative-LibDem Coalition government.\n\nIn mid-2010, city planners approved proposals for a nine-storey, 174 bed hotel beside the existing Masshouse building. The Hotel La Tour group plans to open the four star in February 2012, creating 100 full and part-time jobs in the area. The development will include a restaurant, bar, gym and conference facilities.\n\nMartineau Galleries is a proposed mixed-use development which will connect the Eastside to the city centre core and is also located on the High Street, a major retail area. The design contains residential and office blocks as well as an open area surrounded by shops. There are also five rooftop gardens. There is also a block with two towers protruding one of which is estimated to be 110 metres in height with 29 floors and a sloped roof with two rooftop gardens either side of these. The other is shorter however also has the sloped roof. It is proposed that there are eight buildings in total on site.\n\nEastside is the planned location for the city centre terminus station for \"High Speed 2 (HS2)\" phase one at Curzon Street railway station. It is expected that once HS2 is complete journey times from London into Birmingham City Centre will be reduced to 45 minutes with the potential to bring £1.4 billion of economic value (GVA) into the region. Birmingham City Council's Gross value added, sets out how investment in the Curzon area will enable the city to benefit from the improved connectivity with London (phase one 2026) and northern cities in phase two.\n\nThe Beorma Quarter is planned for construction from 2010 onwards, as a multimillion-pound 27-storey city-within-a-city development on a site at the end of Digbeth High Street, directly opposite Birmingham's already iconic Selfridges building (it will occupy the site of the city's last seven burgage plots ). Complete with state-of-the-art environmental and energy systems, the final development is likely to consist of a Marriott Hotel, apartments, green spaces, a niche shopping centre, a public space intended to house Birmingham's historic John F. Kennedy memorial and two refurbished cold storage buildings which will be redeveloped as creative industries business incubation and innovation hubs.\n\nPlanning permission was granted for the Beorma Quarter in August 2009, despite the fact that the project contravenes at least two of the City Council’s own planning policies. It is outside the city's designated tall building area and is also in the middle of a conservation area. The tower was described as \"abominable\" and \"like a punch in the face by an architectural fist\" by the city’s Conservative and Heritage Panel.\n\nPreliminary work on the construction of the Beorma Quarter began in December 2010. Work started with stripping out the listed Cold Store building opposite St. Martin's Church. The conversion of the historic, building will create an innovation centre for businesses.\n\nBy February 2011, a question mark remained over the development of the site's 27-storey tower block, as construction will only commence once occupiers are found.\n\nDigbeth Coach Station underwent a £15 million redevelopment in 2009 and was renamed Birmingham coach station. It is a major coach interchange offering services to destinations throughout Great Britain and also to Belfast, Dublin and Poland. National Express, the largest scheduled coach service provider in Europe, has its national headquarters on the site.\n\nThe completion of South Birmingham College: Digbeth and the renovation of the Custard Factory also attracted interest to the area economically with the opening of a Cadillac automobile showroom in the area in early 2006, despite the council naming the area as a media quarter. The Custard Factory is again set for an expansion with the refurbishment of the adjacent Devonshire House being approved by Birmingham City Council in August 2007. Scaffolding has been erected around the structure. A further planning application has been submitted for the installation of artwork on one of the railway arches making up the Digbeth Viaduct. Opposite the Custard Factory is a five-storey office development named Rhubarb designed by Bryant Priest Newman Architects which was completed in February 2010.\n\nDeritend is also expected to witness a vast amount of redevelopment. A large number of low-rise residential schemes have been proposed with several beginning construction in 2005 and 2006. Deritend Bridge (so called because of its location near a bridge which crossed the River Rea called Deritend Bridge) was a large residential development planned for the area. It received outline planning consent however the land was then sold by the developers to another company. The site is now set to be developed into a large mixed-use scheme named Connaught Square by the Naus Group. The development in Deritend extends towards the Bordesley area which borders Eastside.\n\nAn area between Fazeley Street and the Grand Union Canal in Digbeth, named Warwick Bar, has become the focus of redevelopment itself with the construction of new modern buildings and a restoration project of an old Victorian storage facility. Proposals are also being planned for the area including a little-known project known as \"The Needle\". Its location is not known according to a developments document issued however it would most likely be at Warwick Bar.\n\nThe Southside Business Improvement District (BID) is a plan for the local business community to come together to develop projects and services that will benefit the environment of Southside.\n\nAt the end of May 2009, the City Council approved plans for a £530,000 environmental improvement scheme at the heart of the city’s Gay Village area. The proposals include extending the avenue of street trees to the full length of Hurst Street and parts of Kent Street; widening pavements to create space for café bars to provide outdoor seating and brighter street lighting with decorative lanterns. This plan may now be funded by Southside BID.\n\nIn August 2010, planning permission was granted for a new £1.5 million square at the heart of Birmingham’s historic Jewellery Quarter. Created by Birmingham-based architects, Capita Lovejoy, the ‘Golden Square’ will provide a focal point for visitors and shoppers within the Quarter. Construction is due to start in Autumn 2011, with completion in Spring 2012.\n\nNewhall Square is a vibrant new mixed use development on the site of the former Museum of Science and Industry on Newhall Street. It will include a range of new and restored listed buildings set around a major new square fronting the canal.\n\nTo improve the skyline of Birmingham, the \"High Places\" document was produced by the council to outline appropriate places for highrise buildings and to explain what the council expects from their design. Birmingham city centre is located on a sandstone ridge and is about 100 metres above sea level meaning that towers no taller than 40 storeys are advised due to CAA height restrictions.\n\nSeveral towers have been proposed for Birmingham since. Beetham Tower was originally proposed at 191 metres, however, the height restrictions meant the height was cut down to 122 metres. It has since been completed. V Building, first known as Arena Central Tower, was first proposed at 245 metres but was also shortened to 175 metres. The building was redesigned by Eric Kuhne and is proposed at 152 metres.\n\nOne building, Broad Street Tower, surpasses the height restrictions. It received planning approval in 2006 when Birmingham International Airport withdrew objections to the tower.\n\nThe new Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham is the city's first superhospital, completed in 2010. The completion cost was £545 million. The new hospital replaces Selly Oak Hospital and the old Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham (1933–2010).\n\nThe City of Birmingham Stadium was a proposed multi-purpose stadium in the Saltley area of Birmingham for Birmingham City F.C., to replace the current St Andrews Stadium in Bordesley Green. The original proposal was the centrepiece of a larger scheme to create a £300 million sports village on a site, however, plans for the sports village fell through when plans for a proposed supercasino for the site also fell through. The stadium plans will rejuvenate a contaminated site currently used by Birmingham Wheels.\n\nUrban Splash also developed Fort Dunlop, a former factory building next to the M6 motorway, which opened in December 2006.\n\nBournville College has relocated to Longbridge on the former site of the MG Rover works.\n\n"}
{"id": "41662601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41662601", "title": "Bishop White Gallery of Chinese Temple Art", "text": "Bishop White Gallery of Chinese Temple Art\n\nThe Bishop White Gallery of Chinese Temple Art is one of four galleries in the Royal Ontario Museum (ROM) that are dedicated to Chinese art and archaeology. It contains one of the most important collections of Chinese temple art in the world, including three Yuan Dynasty (1271 – 1368 AD) temple wall paintings from Shanxi Province that adorn the three walls of the Gallery, and several wooden sculptures depicting bodhisattvas from the 12th to the 15th centuries. These are some of the earliest acquisitions and most iconic objects in the ROM.\n\nThe Gallery is named in honour of Bishop William Charles White (1873-1960), an Anglican missionary, educated at Wycliffe College in the University of Toronto, who became Bishop of Honan Province, China (1909-1934). Bishop White was chiefly responsible for building and interpreting the ROM's Chinese collection in the early days and, in particular, for the acquisition of the Buddhist wall painting on the north wall of this Gallery and the H.H. Mu Far Eastern Library . He was also the first curator of the East Asian galleries (1934-1948) and founder of the School of Chinese Studies (later the East Asian Studies Department) at the University of Toronto in 1934. The Bishop White Committee in the Royal Ontario Museum was founded shortly after his death to promote the collections of the East Asian Galleries.\n\nThe collections of this Gallery are mostly Buddhist, including the wall painting on the north wall of the Gallery, The Paradise of Maitreya, and the wooden sculptures, which are mostly of a later provenance; but the other two wall paintings, both entitled Homage to the First Principle, are from the Daoist tradition.\n\nThe wall painting depicts Maitreya, the Buddha of the future and successor to the historical Buddha, enthroned in heaven and awaiting his incarnation on earth where he will save the souls of lost humanity. Maitreya himself is the central figure but he is joined by a goodly retinue of greater and lesser bodhisattvas and monks (arhats, or 'luohan' in Chinese). According to the Indian Buddhist tradition, Maitreya will be born in to the Kingdom of Ketumati, whose King and Queen are depicted here, at the far left and right, 'taking the tonsure' (i.e., having their heads shaved) as a sign of their conversion to Buddhism.\n\nThe Paradise of Maitreya, which measures approximately 16 (height) x 36 (width) feet, is known to have come from the Monastery of Joyful Conversion (Xinghua Si) in southern Shanxi Province, which has long since been destroyed after falling into ruins. The painting remained in situ and was undisturbed until the 1920s, when social and political unrest in China led to the destruction of many temples in the northern part of the country. To protect the wall paintings from war lords who were looting the northern monasteries, the Buddhist monks resolved to cut the painting in to 63 sections and hid them. They eventually sold the painting in 1923 to a syndicate of Chinese art dealers from Beijing from whom Bishop White purchased it in 1928 for the Royal Ontario Museum where it was installed in 1933 after being reassembled. It was acquired through the generosity of the Sir Joseph Flavelle Foundation, in memory of Sir Joseph Flavelle, a prominent Toronto businessman and Trustee of the ROM.\n\nThe Paradise of Maitreya is currently dated as having been composed in 1298 and is one of the best surviving examples of its kind from late Yuan period, but there has been much scholarly debate about the exact date of composition. Bishop White himself contributed a monograph on the subject, arguing for a slightly earlier date, and suggesting that the painting should be attributed to Zhu Haogu, whose name Bishop White procured from the temple records before it was destroyed. This attribution has been accepted by subsequent scholars and has been a useful point of reference for research into the development of a Buddhist-Daoist style of temple art in southern Shanxi Province.\n\nThese Buddhist sculptures are bodhisattvas, enlightened beings who have remained on earth rather than entering paradise in order to help others attain enlightenment. These sculptures also come from Shanxi Province, though not from the same temple as the Paradise of Maitreya, and were intended as icons by which to evoke the presence of the divine, with the wall paintings serving as a background. The most famous of these are a pair of bodhisattvas, Guanyin and Dashiji, who are almost identical except for some of their accoutrements, like the diadems they wear. Their creation is attested as being in the year 1195 by an inscription set into the lower back of Guanyin, which makes them unique, as only a very few wooden sculptures of this kind dated to the 12th century are known to have survived. Many of the sculptures in the Bishop White Gallery have openings in their backs where devotees would leave offerings (e.g., printed prayers, small images or precious gems and metals) at the time of dedication to ensure their efficacy as objects of prayer.\n\nBishop White surmised that most of the statues in this Gallery were sculpted from a variety of catalpa, either in pieces or from a single block. All of these sculptures were acquired through the efforts of George Crofts, a fur merchant who was also instrumental as an agent in the Chinese art market of the early 20th century, and arrived to the ROM before 1925.\n\nOn the east and west walls of the Bishop White Gallery are a pair of two slightly smaller paintings, Homage to the Highest Principle, that depict a procession of Daoist deities and their celestial attendants, sometimes referred to as Chaoyuan tu or the 'Heavenly Court'. These deities, whose court is modeled on the bureaucratic structure of the earthly world, are said to maintain the order of nature and to govern the welfare of human beings. In their original monastic context, these processional paintings would have led up to a great picture at the end of the room, probably depicting the heavenly host. In the Bishop White Gallery, the north wall is occupied by the Paradise of Maitreya, a Buddhist painting but with a similar motif and treatment of the subject matter as what would have been seen in the original Daoist temple. By the time that these paintings were being produced in the 13th or 14th century, Buddhism had been assimilated into the Chinese philosophical system, and this syncretism had long since begun to influence iconography.\n\nThe provenance of these paintings, which both measure approximately 10 (height) x 34 (width) feet, is not known with certainty. It is thought that they came from a Daoist temple in southern Shanxi, whose name and exact location are unknown, but the stylistic similarity between these and other paintings found in another Shanxi Daoist temple, Yongle Gong, suggests that they might have come from the same workshop and be roughly contemporaneous, dating from the early 14th century. Since the paintings in Yongle Gong bear the inscription of the master Zhu Haogu, the same painter whom Bishop White first identified as being responsible for the Paradise of Maitreya, it has been inferred that all three wall paintings in the Bishop White Gallery, both Buddhist and Daoist, might have been executed by the same man or, at least, in the same workshop.\nThe Daoist murals were acquired through the well-known art dealership of Yamanaka & Co. in 1937. Charles Currelly, the founding Director of the ROM, relates in his autobiography how the paintings were offered to the Museum by a certain Mr. Tanaka, who, being particularly impressed by the quality of the Buddhist wall painting already in the ROM's possession, thought it desirable that the pair of Daoist paintings should also come to the ROM, so that there would be in North America at least one complete representation of what these early Northern Chinese temples would have been like.\n\nThe Bishop White Gallery is located in the original wing of the ROM, constructed in 1914, where it has remained since the wall paintings were installed in the 1930s. The design of the Gallery, however, has changed dramatically over the years, beginning with a fairly prosaic display of the objects around the circumference of the room, later progressing in the 1980s to a recreation of an authentic temple setting and, since the mid-2000s, receiving a more modern treatment with an 'open concept' layout.\n\nIn the early 1980s, the Bishop White Gallery was redesigned to give the effect of a Chinese Buddhist temple of the 14th century. This was not an attempt to reproduce a particular site but rather a thoughtful way of utilizing the space to combine a number of roughly contemporary artefacts into a coherent unit. This was done by imitating a few features of what remains from the Yongle Gong temple complex, long roof beams terminating in curved brackets and a coffered ceiling, together with the same general layout of a rectangular space where devotees could participate in rituals such as meditative circumambulation around a raised altar supporting sculpted images of bodhisattvas.\n\nThe choice of a temple environment was appropriate not only thematically, since both the wall paintings and the statues were originally used as temple art, but also in terms of the provenance of these artefacts, which originated in geographic proximity to each other in northern China. It might be objected that the contents of this Gallery are not exactly contemporaneous, dating from 1195 to the late 14th century, but yet it would not have been uncommon for a temple to contain devotional objects that its community had accumulated throughout many generations. Although the wall paintings displayed in this 'temple' setting are both Buddhist and Daoist, it was decided that this too would not be inappropriate, because there had long since been a blending of these two religious belief systems. Indeed, from the 10th century onwards the syncretism of Buddhist, Daoist and Confucian beliefs – 'The Three Teachings' - was reflected even in the similarity of artistic style, which is certainly evidenced in the examples presented in the Bishop White Gallery. The renovated Gallery was reputed to be as close as one could come outside China to a major North Chinese monastery hall.\n\nThe current incarnation of the Gallery, which opened in 2005, dates from the renovations that were undertaken during the first phase of the 'Renaissance ROM' building project. Several other galleries were also renovated, including the other galleries of the Far Eastern collection, and the construction of the Michael-Lee Chin Crystal, designed by Daniel Libeskind, was completed in 2007. Like the Crystal, the renovation of gallery space in the historic buildings was also intended to be modern in style - quite austere, with a minimum of colour and helpful signage, and an 'open-concept' layout that minimizes visual barriers between adjoining galleries, purportedly so that audience might appreciate the collections as 'works of art,' with little indication of the context for which objects – particularly religious objects – were originally intended. That said, the general organization of the artefacts remains much as it was during the Gallery's previous incarnation as a temple reconstruction, with the murals surrounding the wooden sculptures situated in the middle of the space, but the decorative elements of the temple setting have been stripped away to focus one's attention on the objects themselves.\n"}
{"id": "30457831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30457831", "title": "Cape Bowling Green Light", "text": "Cape Bowling Green Light\n\nCape Bowling Green Light is an active lighthouse located on Cape Bowling Green, a lengthy headland ending with a long low sandspit, about from Ayr, Queensland, Australia. The lighthouse is at the end of the headland, near the base of the sandspit. The first lighthouse at the location, established 1874, was moved multiple times. It was prefabricated in Brisbane, shipped to the location, moved twice due to coastal erosion and finally transferred for display at the Australian National Maritime Museum at Darling Harbour in Sydney.\n\nMany ships wrecking at Cape Bowling Green necessitated the construction of a lighthouse at the cape. The first Cape Bowling Green Light was constructed in 1874, one of 22 lighthouse of similar design constructed in Queensland around that time. It was a round conical tower, constructed of local hardwood frame clad with galvanized iron plates imported from Britain. The lighthouse was prefabricated in Brisbane, then dismantled and shipped to the location to be erected again. The construction was done by the brothers John and Jacob Rooney of Maryborough, which also constructed Sandy Cape Light, Cowan Cowan Point Light, Cape Capricorn Light, Lady Elliot Island Light and Booby Island Light.\n\nThe original lens was a 3rd order Chance Brothers dioptric lens, and the light source was a kerosene wick lamp with an intensity of 13,000 cd, visible for . The apparatus was rotated with a clockwork mechanism and the station was operated by four lighthouse keepers, a chief and three assistants.\n\nIn 1878 beach erosion threatened the lighthouse for the first time and it was moved for the first time. In 1908 the tower had to be relocated further away for the same reason.\n\nIn 1913 an incandescent gas mantle operated by vaporised kerosene was installed, raising the power to 64,000 cd. In 1920 a fixed automatic acetylene gas lamp (carbide lamp) with a sun valve was installed. As a result, the lighthouse was demanned and all other buildings were demolished.\n\nIn 1985 a racon was installed. In 1987 the lighthouse was replaced by the current skeletal tower. With the sponsorship of the Australian Maritime Safety Authority, the lighthouse was dismantled, and sections were lifted by a Department of Transport helicopter to a site where they were numbered, crated, and shipped to Sydney. By 1994 the lighthouse was reassembled at the Australian National Maritime Museum where it is now on display. The lighthouse is still operational, using the original 3rd order lens and a typical 1913 clockwork mechanism, and it maintains its original light characteristic, four white flashes every twenty seconds (Fl.(4)W. 20s).\n\nThe current tower is a square steel skeletal tower. It is topped by a square lantern structure with a gallery. It is painted white with a red horizontal band at the top.\nThe light characteristic shown is four white flashes every twenty seconds (Fl.(4)W. 20s), visible for .\n\nThe current lighthouse is operated by the AMSA. The visiting status is unclear. The original lighthouse is owned and operated by the Australian National Maritime Museum, and it is open for guided tours daily.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12036175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12036175", "title": "Chronicles of Mann", "text": "Chronicles of Mann\n\nThe Chronicles of the Kings of Mann and the Isles () or Manx Chronicle (London, British Library, Cotton MS Julius A. VII, ff. 31r-52r) is a medieval Latin manuscript relating the early history of the Isle of Man.\n\nThe main part of the manuscript is believed to have been composed and written in 1261 or 1262 at Rushen Abbey on the island, shortly after the time of the Cistercian abbey's dedication in 1257, which is the final event retold by the original scribe. The manuscript is written in ink on vellum, with pages roughly by .\n\nThe \"Chronicles\" are a look back, year-by-year from 1016, over the significant events in Manx history of that time. Written in Latin, it records the island's role as the centre of the Norse Kingdom of Mann and the Isles, and the influence of its kings and religious leaders, as well as the role of Rushen Abbey itself – which was founded at the invitation of Olaf I Godredsson, one of the Norse kings. The original scribe also wrote a list of popes (ff. 3r-14r) which ends with Pope Urban IV (1261–4). It is probable that the \"Chronicles\" were written for the new abbey on its foundation.\n\nEntries for the earlier years are notably shorter than those towards the end of the original section of the manuscript, no doubt due to later events having occurred within living memory of the time of writing, and thus more detail being available. Many of the dates of the earlier annals are put around 15 years earlier than the actual event, and none of these entries before 1047 are directly related to the Isle of Man, having been copied from a source shared with the \"Chronicle of Melrose\".\n\nSeveral further notes were later added by the abbey's Cistercian monks, taking the \"Chronicles\" up to 1316. The manuscript also contains a copy of Bonizo of Sutri's \"Cronica Romanorum pontificum\" (ff. 15r-30r) and a territorial survey (ff. 53r-54v). A record of the bishops of the Western Isles to John Donkan (Bishop of Man and the Isles from 1374 to 1387) is appended to the \"Chronicles\".\n\nAfter the abbey was dissolved in 1540 the manuscript is thought to have passed through a number of private hands until being presented by Roger Dodsworth (d. 1654) to Sir Robert Cotton (d. 1631) in 1620/1. Cotton's collection of medieval and early modern manuscripts was one of the founding collections of the British Museum and is now cared for by the British Library in London.\n\nThere have been campaigns to move the \"Chronicles\" permanently to the Isle of Man.\n\nIn 2014 it was confirmed that the Celtic League will be demanding the return of the Chronicles to the Isle of Man.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36117689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36117689", "title": "Comparison of software saving Web pages for offline use", "text": "Comparison of software saving Web pages for offline use\n\nA number of proprietary software products are available for saving Web pages for later use offline. They vary in terms of the techniques used for saving, what types of content can be saved, the format and compression of the saved files, provision for working with already saved content, and in other ways.\n\nTo save video embedded on web sites (e.g. YouTube), there are video download extensions for Firefox (including Download Helper) and Chrome.\n\n"}
{"id": "21004836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21004836", "title": "Comparison of solid-fuelled orbital launch systems", "text": "Comparison of solid-fuelled orbital launch systems\n\nThis page contains the lift launch systems constructed by some solid fuel stages except final stage.\n\n"}
{"id": "4225013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4225013", "title": "Comparison of webmail providers", "text": "Comparison of webmail providers\n\nThe following tables compare general and technical information for a number of notable webmail providers who offer a web interface in English.\n\nThe list does not include web hosting providers who may offer email services as a part of hosting package.\n\nGeneral information on webmail providers and products\n\nLicensing and JavaScript requirements for webmail products\n\nSecurity information users must provide to verify and complete the registration when opening an account: \n\n"}
{"id": "55140757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55140757", "title": "Dipylon krater", "text": "Dipylon krater\n\nDipylon kraters are Geometric Period Greek terracotta funerary vases found at the Dipylon cemetery, near the Dipylon Gate, in Kerameikos, the ancient potters quarter on the northwest side of the ancient city of Athens. A krater is a large Ancient Greek painted vase used to mix wine and water, but the large kraters at the Dipylon cemetery served as grave markers.\n\nVases representative of this larger \"Dipylon Style,\" are housed in the National Archaeological Museum, Athens and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.\n\nThe Met's Dipylon krater is tall and has a circumference of . The monumental vase is hollow, with a hole at the bottom, indicating that it was not used as a mixing bowl like regular kraters. At the Dipylon Cemetery, where it was found, kraters marked the graves of men. Decorations occupy the entire vase, separated into registers containing abstract motifs or figural designs in a dark-on-light style.\n\nA key-patterned meander fills the top registers, while funerary iconography sits below. The figural scenes describe two of the three parts of a proper burial: a prothesis and an ekphora. A prothesis is the laying out of a body for mourning, and an ekphora is the transportation of the body to the grave. The third step in a burial would be the actual burial of the body or its ashes.\n\nThe prothesis scene on the Met's Dipylon Krater features standing women with triangular torsos surrounding a prostrate body underneath a checkered burial shroud. The women raise their arms to their head, tearing out their hair as a sign of mourning for the deceased. Abstract geometric motifs and animals fill space in between the figures in a dense style characteristic of the Late Geometric Period. Underneath, the ekphora scene displays warriors with chariots and hourglass-shaped shields transporting the body in a funeral procession.\n\nThe horses overlap each other without clear distinctions, in a stiff profile featured across the vase. The elaborate procession, complete with soldiers and horses indicates the importance this family placed on a proper burial, a value also featured in canonical Greek texts like the Iliad. The similarity of this vase's iconography to that of the Dipylon Amphora, attributed to the same artist, reveals that the rituals displayed were not isolated but were part of a larger tradition of Greek funerary rites in Geometric Period Athens.\n\n"}
{"id": "3104765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3104765", "title": "Donald Davidson (historian)", "text": "Donald Davidson (historian)\n\nDonald C. Davidson is the historian of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, the only person to hold such a position on a full-time basis for any motorsports facility in the world. Davidson started his career as a statistician, publicist, and historian at USAC. He is perhaps best known for his radio program, \"The Talk of Gasoline Alley\", broadcast annually throughout the \"Month of May\" on WFNI in Indianapolis, as well as his long tenure as a part of the IMS Radio Network.\n\nDavidson is a member of the Auto Racing Hall of Fame, the Richard M. Fairbanks Indiana Broadcast Pioneers Hall of Fame, and the USAC Hall of Fame. In 2016, he was named a Sagamore of the Wabash by Governor Mike Pence.\n\nBritish born, Davidson was from Salisbury, Wiltshire in South West England. He worked as a cinema projectionist at the Odeon Leicester Square in London. He first learned of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway when he became passionately interested in Grand Prix motor racing in the mid-1950s. Part of that interest stemmed from viewing highlight films of auto races. It did not take long for his interest to transfer over to the Indianapolis 500, plus other forms of American oval track racing. Davidson sought out books, magazines, and other various publications relating to auto racing. He then proceeded to memorize, in great detail, the results of every Indianapolis 500. He has been described as having Selective Retentive Easy-Access Memory.\n\nDavidson saved up his own money and first visited Indianapolis in May 1964. He had relatives in Chicago, with whom he arranged to stay during part of the trip. He had written to IMS radio announcer Sid Collins and amazed the crowd by being able to recite the record of every driver who had ever competed in the \"500.\" He was quickly and warmly welcomed by the Speedway staff as well as participants, and within hours of his arrival, he was given free credentials. Collins invited Davidson to make a brief appearance as a guest on the radio broadcast of the 1964 race.\n\nDavidson returned to the Speedway to attend the 1965 Indianapolis 500. He reunited with Sid Collins and the Radio Network staff. He joined the staff as a popular fixture, and sought permanent employment in Indianapolis. \n\nA few days after the 1965 race, Davidson was hired by Henry Banks to work at USAC as a statistician, a position he would hold for 31 years. He also worked as a publicist, writing the USAC newsletter and other related publications. Davidson left USAC in 1997, and worked briefly for IMS Productions, the in-house television division at the Speedway. In January 1998 he officially became the full-time historian of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, and maintains an office at the Museum. He is also now the longest-serving commentator on the IMS Radio Network staff, having served in at least some capacity on every radio broadcast of the Indianapolis 500 since 1965 (not including his guest appearance in 1964).\n\nParallel to his work on the IMS Radio Network, Davidson also worked on the local radio coverage of practice and time trials on WIBC.\n\nIn 1966, Sid Collins arranged for Davidson to host 15-minute semi-daily radio program on 1070 WIBC during the month of May. The program was called \"Dial Davidson,\" and allowed phone-in callers to ask Davidson questions about the Indianapolis 500.\n\nIn 1967, Davidson was unable to continue the program because he was going through basic training at Fort Rucker in the National Guard. He missed a considerable part of the month of May at Indy in 1967, but was able to attend the race itself and serve on the radio network broadcast.\n\nAfter management changes at 1070 WIBC in 1970, the station vastly increased their coverage of the Indianapolis 500 for 1971. Davidson was invited back to host a one-hour nightly quiz show about the Indy 500. The show was unnamed for the first two to three years, but for a brief time it was called \"Stump the chump\". Lou Palmer called the program \"Do it to Donald\" and Chuck Riley called it \"Stymie the Limey.\" Callers won prizes if Donald did not know the answer.\n\nAfter a few seasons, the show evolved from a \"rapid fire\" call-in quiz show to a more long form caller-based question & answer talk show, with Davidson taking the role of raconteur. Davidson fields the callers' questions, preferably of a nostalgic nature, about the history of the Indianapolis 500. Furthermore, he prohibits himself from using any sort of reference material during the show, relying only on his own memory. Not only does he answer questions, but he adds various anecdotes, vignettes, statistics, driver biographies, and may recount other related stories, typically of personal experiences regarding the subject matter. Topics for discussion are broad, but are often focused on biographies of drivers, team owners, mechanics, and other personalities associated with the race or the track. Other popular topics include track lore, famous cars, race recaps, members of the IMS Radio Network, the museum and its exhibits, and specific events from a particular year. Discussions regarding non-race winners and drivers of relative obscurity (particularly drivers from the very early years) are warmly received, as it offers \"fresh\" content to the program. \n\nControversial topics are frowned upon, and a small list of oft-repeated subjects that have been answered ad nauseam are usually avoided (the Turbines, Jigger Sirois, the Jim Hurtubise \"beer engine\" incident, the 1911 controversy, and others). In addition, shows that air during Brickyard 400 week invite questions about NASCAR and USAC Stock Car history, both of which Davidson is also well-versed.\n\nBy the late-1970s, the program adopted the name \"The Talk of Gasoline Alley\" (in reference to the nickname of the garage area at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway). Starting around 1983, the show moved from the downtown studios of WIBC to the track itself, and for one year was set up in the lobby of the Speedway Motel. The following year, the show moved to the garage area. Eventually Davidson was invited to broadcast the program from one of the team's garages, and mechanics were usually heard in the background working on the cars. In many years, the show was done from the garages of the Jonathan Byrd team. Starting in 1990, a special post-race drive home show has also been aired, immediately following the conclusion of the IMS Radio Network race broadcast. In recent years, the program has originated from the media center at the Speedway, or from the WFNI studios downtown.\n\nFor much of its run on 1070 WIBC-AM, the hour-long show aired daily at 6:00 p.m. local time. That coincided with the time of the day the track closed for practice (or time trials) each evening. During the late 1990s and early 2000s, the show was jointly produced as a part of Dave \"The King\" Wilson's nightly drive-home show. Consistent with airing on a traditionally news/talk station, the show was frequently at the mercy of numerous breaks for news, traffic, and weather reports, and occasional pre-emption for breaking news and other live sports coverage.\n\nFor a brief period, the show was expanded to two hours, with the second hour carried on \"Network Indiana\", a syndicated feed that was picked up by several stations around the state.\n\nStarting in 1994, the program expanded to new events at Indy. The show was added the week in July/August for the Brickyard 400 (1994–2009, 2013–2016), the weekend involving the F1 U.S. Grand Prix (2000–2007), as well as the Moto G.P. Around 2001, WIBC began streaming over the internet, effectively exposing the show to a nationwide/worldwide listening audience. In 2006, the program became available in podcast form.\n\nDavidson's other radio experiences included regular appearances on WIBC's Sunday morning program \"The First Day\" in 1976–1984, and a nostalgic radio program titled \"Looking Back with Davidson\" on WIAN in 1973.\n\nIn 2008, after 37 years on 1070 WIBC, the station was reorganized, and the program moved to 1070 The Fan. The show moved to the 8 p.m. timeslot. It is currently part of a two-hour daily block, with \"Trackside with Curt Cavin & Kevin Lee\" serving as a lead-in during the 7 o'clock hour. Typically either Lee or Cavin sits in to serve as host/call screener. Since having moved to a dedicated sports talk station, the program enjoys more leeway in the broadcast window, and is no longer burdened by news reports and the like. However, the program is still occasionally interrupted by Pacers games, as WFNI is the flagship for the team. In some cases, the program has been simulcast or mirrored over to sister station 107.5 FM to avoid preemption.\n\nAlong with the traditional telephone calls, questions are now also accepted via e-mail and Twitter. In some cases discussion topics are pre-planned by the hosts, particularly for the opening segment, or follow-ups from previous night's question(s) kick off the program. A short list of longtime frequent callers complement the show, including Dave from Marion, Paul in Racine, Mike in Vernon Hills, Jerry in Delphi, and many others. \n\nThe show is traditionally aired live, however, on rare occasions when Davidson (or the co-host) has prior commitments, the show will be pre-recorded. In those cases, no phone calls will be taken, instead the topics will be culled from e-mail or Twitter requests. As of 2017, the show has aired for 46 consecutive seasons, and has produced upwards of 1,275 episodes.\n\nIn 2010, Davidson was inducted as a member of the Auto Racing Hall of Fame at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. In 2013, he was inducted into the Richard M. Fairbanks Indiana Broadcast Pioneers Hall of Fame. In 2016, \"The Indianapolis Star\" named Davidson to the list of the 100 most influential people in the history of the Indianapolis 500, and likewise WFNI ranked him #10 on the list of Top Ten Influential People (Non-Drivers) in Indy history. In June 2016, Davidson was named the grand marshal of the Indy Legends Charity Pro–Am race.\n\nAs chief historian for USAC and the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, Davidson has written, or contributed to numerous books about auto racing and the Indianapolis 500. His earlier contributions include the annual 500 Yearbooks and magazine articles. In 1974 and 1975, he wrote a short-lived series of Indianapolis 500 annuals entitled \"Donald Davidson's 500 Annuals.\" During the month of May for numerous years, Davidson penned a daily column in the \"Indianapolis Star\" about Indianapolis 500 history. In addition to his work on the radio Davidson also co-hosted local Indy 500 practice and qualifications coverage on WTTV (1984–1989) and WNDY-TV (1995–1997).\n\nAfter many years of helping others with their books on the Indianapolis 500, Davidson wrote his own, put out through the publishers of \"Autocourse\", entitled \"Autocourse Official History of the Indianapolis 500\", co-authored by Rick Shaffer. An updated second edition was published in 2013.\n\nDavidson has appeared on numerous television programs, including \"Motorweek Illustrated\", \"SportsCentury\" on ESPN, and \"Indy 500 The Classics\" on Speedvision.\n\nDavidson has served as a lecturer at IUPUI and for many years taught a course in motorsports history. He has been a frequent guest speaker at various engagements including trade shows, civic and social events, banquets, and awards ceremonies. Davidson lives within walking distance of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, and has an office inside the museum. In 2003, a house fire swept through his basement, destroying some items from his personal collection, including a photograph of himself with 1911 Indianapolis 500 winner Ray Harroun. On his radio program, though he is guarded of his age, Davidson mentioned that he shares a birthday with Indy 500 winners Jimmy Bryan and Takuma Sato, as well as driver Gene Hartley.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47011977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47011977", "title": "Dongguk Jeongun", "text": "Dongguk Jeongun\n\nThe Dongguk Jeongun (Standard Rhymes of the Eastern States) is a Korean dictionary of rhymes which sets out a standard practice for pronouncing Chinese characters in Korean. It was compiled between 1446 and 1448 under the instructions of Sejong the Great, and serves as a companion volume to his \"Hunminjeongeum\".\n\nIt was one of the first printed books in Korea, using both woodblock printing and metal type printing. Woodblocks were used for the larger characters (whose calligraphy is attributed to Prince Jinyang) and metal for the smaller text.\n\nAn extant original version of the book is held at the Museum of Konkuk University.\n"}
{"id": "35458398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35458398", "title": "Enciclopedia Dantesca", "text": "Enciclopedia Dantesca\n\nThe Enciclopedia Dantesca, published 1970–1975 by the Istituto dell'Enciclopedia Italiana, in six volumes, under the general editorship of Umberto Bosco, is considered the reference book in Italian language about the life and works of Dante, described as a \"monumental\" work\n\n"}
{"id": "52809171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52809171", "title": "European Component Oriented Architecture", "text": "European Component Oriented Architecture\n\nEuropean Component Oriented Architecture (ECOA) is an open specification for a software framework for mission system software comprising components that are both real-time and service-oriented.\n\nECOA is managed by the French Direction générale de l'armement and the UK Ministry of Defence (through the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory - DSTL) with the help of the following industry partners:\n\nThe initial study began in January 2008 with French partners, but work on the standard really began in January 2011. In August 2015, the first version of the standard was publishers as a UK Defense standard (DEFSTAN). In December 2015, the standard was republished as a BNAE standard. In July 2016, an updated specification has been made available.\n\nECOA defines an architecture framework based on a Service-oriented architecture. ECOA Software Components (ASCs) are composed of modules which contain the application code and may run in parallel. ECOA provides mechanisms to make these software components portable across computing platforms through use of an interfacing layer called a \"container\". Components communicate with other components using events, request–response and versioned data.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19109098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19109098", "title": "Feng Office Community Edition", "text": "Feng Office Community Edition\n\nFeng Office Community Edition (formerly \"OpenGoo\") is an open-source collaboration platform developed and supported by Feng Office and the OpenGoo community. It is a fully featured online office suite with a similar set of features as other online office suites, like G Suite, Microsoft Office Live, Zimbra, LibreOffice Online and Zoho Office Suite. The application can be downloaded and installed on a server.\n\nFeng Office could also be categorized as collaborative software and as personal information manager software.\n\nFeng Office Community Edition main features include project management, document management, contact management, e-mail and time management. Text documents and presentations can be created and edited online. Files can be uploaded, organized and shared, independent of file formats.\n\nOrganization of the information in Feng Office Community Edition is done using workspaces and tags.\n\nThe application presents the information stored using different interfaces such as lists, dashboards and calendar views.\n\nFeng Office Community Edition is distributed under the GNU Affero General Public License, version 3.\n\nFeng Office uses PHP, JavaScript, AJAX (ExtJS) and MySQL technology.\n\nSeveral open source projects served as a basis for development. ActiveCollab's last open sourced release was used as the initial code base. It includes CKEditor for online document editing.\n\nThe server could run on any operating system. The system needs the following packages:\n\nOn the client side, the user is only required to use a modern Web browser.\n\nOpenGoo started as a degree project at the faculty of Engineering of the University of the Republic, Uruguay. The project was presented and championed by Software Engineer Conrado Viña. Software Engineers Marcos Saiz and Ignacio de Soto developed the first prototype as their thesis. Professors Eduardo Fernández and Tomás Laurenzo served as tutors. Conrado, Ignacio and Marcos founded the OpenGoo community and remain active members and core developers. The thesis was approved with the highest score.\n\nCurrently there is a second project for OpenGoo at the same University being developed by students Fernando Rodríguez, Ignacio Vázquez and Juan Pedro del Campo. Their project aims to build an open source Web-based spreadsheet.\n\nOn December 2009 the OpenGoo name was changed to Feng Office Community Edition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18952656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18952656", "title": "Getty Center", "text": "Getty Center\n\nThe Getty Center, in Los Angeles, California, is a campus of the Getty Museum and other programs of the Getty Trust. The $1.3 billion Center opened to the public on December 16, 1997 and is well known for its architecture, gardens, and views overlooking Los Angeles. The Center sits atop a hill connected to a visitors' parking garage at the bottom of the hill by a three-car, cable-pulled hovertrain funicular. \n\nLocated in the Brentwood neighborhood of Los Angeles, the Center is one of two locations of the J. Paul Getty Museum and draws 1.8 million visitors annually. (The other location is the Getty Villa in the Pacific Palisades neighborhood of Los Angeles, California.) The Center branch of the Museum features pre-20th-century European paintings, drawings, illuminated manuscripts, sculpture, and decorative arts; and photographs from the 1830s through present day from all over the world. In addition, the Museum’s collection at the Center includes outdoor sculpture displayed on terraces and in gardens and the large Central Garden designed by Robert Irwin. Among the artworks on display is the Vincent Van Gogh painting \"Irises\". \n\nDesigned by architect Richard Meier, the campus also houses the Getty Research Institute (GRI), the Getty Conservation Institute, the Getty Foundation, and the J. Paul Getty Trust. The Center's design included special provisions to address concerns regarding earthquakes and fires.\n\nOriginally, the Getty Museum started in J. Paul Getty's house located in Pacific Palisades in 1954. He expanded the house with a museum wing. In the 1970s, Getty built a replica of an Italian villa on his home's land to better house his collection, which opened in 1974. After Getty's death in 1976, the entire property was turned over to the Getty Trust for museum purposes. However, the collection outgrew the site, which has since been renamed the Getty Villa, and management sought a location more accessible to Los Angeles. The purchase of the land upon which the center is located, a campus of on a site in the Santa Monica Mountains above Interstate 405, surrounded by kept in a natural state, was announced in 1983. The top of the hill is above sea level, high enough that on a clear day it is possible to see not only the Los Angeles skyline but also the San Bernardino Mountains, and San Gabriel Mountains to the east as well as the Pacific Ocean to the west.\n\nThe price tag of the center totaled $733 million which includes $449 million for construction, $115 million for the land and site work, $30 million for fixtures and equipment, and $139 million for insurance, engineers' and architects' fees, permits and safety measures, according to Stephen D. Rountree, former director of the Getty's building program and director of operations and planning for the trust.\n\nCurrent appraisal for the property fluctuates with the market, but in June 2013 the land and buildings were estimated at $3.853 billion (art not included). \n\nIn 1984, Richard Meier was chosen to be the architect of the center. After an extensive conditional-use permit process, construction by the Hathaway Dinwiddie Construction Company began in August 1989. The construction was significantly delayed, with the planned completion date moved from 1988 to 1995 (as of 1990). By 1995, however, the campus was described as only \"more than halfway complete\".\n\nThe center ultimately opened to the public on December 16, 1997. Although the total project cost was estimated to be $350 million as of 1990, it was later estimated to be $1.3 billion. After the center opened, the villa closed for extensive renovations and reopened on January 28, 2006, to focus on the arts and cultures of ancient Greece, Rome, and Etruria. Currently, the museum displays collections at both the Getty Center and the Getty Villa in Pacific Palisades.\n\nIn 2005, after a series of articles in the \"Los Angeles Times\" about the spending practices of the Getty Trust and its then-president Dr. Barry Munitz, the California Attorney General conducted an investigation of the Getty Trust and found that no laws had been broken. The trust agreed to appoint an outside monitor to review future expenditures. The Getty Trust experienced financial difficulties in 2008 and 2009 and cut 205 of 1,487 budgeted staff positions to reduce expenses. Although the Getty Trust endowment reached $6.4 billion in 2007, it dropped to $4.5 billion in 2009. The endowment rebounded to $6.2 billion by 2013.\n\nMeier has exploited the two naturally-occurring ridges (which diverge at a 22.5 degree angle) by overlaying two grids along these axes. These grids serve to define the space of the campus while dividing the import of the buildings on it. Along one axis lie the galleries and along the other axis lie the administrative buildings. Meier emphasized the two competing grids by constructing strong view lines through the campus. The main north-south axis starts with the helipad, then includes a narrow walkway between the auditorium and north buildings, continues past the elevator kiosk to the tram station, through the rotunda, past the walls and support columns of the exhibitions pavilion, and finally the ramp besides the west pavilion and the central garden. Its corresponding east-west visual axis starts with the edge of the scholar's wing of the Getty Research Institute (GRI), the walkway between the central garden and the GRI, the overlook to the azalea pool in the central garden, the walkway between the central garden and the west pavilion, and finally the north wall of the west pavilion and the courtyard between the south and east pavilions.\n\nThe main axes of the museum grid that is offset by 22.5 degrees begins with the arrival plaza, carries through the edge of the stairs up to the main entrance, aligns with the columns supporting the rotunda as well as the center point of the rotunda, aligns with travertine benches in the courtyard between the pavilions, includes a narrow walkway between the west and south pavilions, a staircase down to the cactus garden and ends in the garden. The corresponding cross axis starts with the center point of the circle forming the GRI library garden, then passing to the center of the entrance rotunda, and aligning with the south wall of the rotunda building. Although all of the Museum is aligned on these alternative axes, portions of the exhibitions pavilion and the east pavilion are aligned on the true north-south axis as a reminder that both grids are present in the campus.\n\nThe primary grid structure is a square; most wall and floor elements are squares or some derivative thereof. The buildings at the Getty Center are made from concrete and steel with either travertine or aluminium cladding. Around of travertine was used to build the Center.\n\nThroughout the campus, numerous fountains provide white noise as a background. The initial design has remained intact; however benches and fences have been installed around the plaza fountains to discourage visitors from wading into the pools. Some additional revisions have been made in deference to the Americans with Disabilities Act.\n\nThe north promontory is anchored by a circular grass area, which serves as a heliport in case of emergencies, and the south promontory is anchored by a succulent plant and cactus garden. The complex is also encircled by access roads that lead to loading docks and staff parking garages on both the west and east sides of the buildings. The hillside around the complex has been planted with California Live Oak (Quercus agrifolia) trees.\n\nThe Museum has a seven-story deep underground parking garage with over 1,200 parking spaces. Its roof has an outdoor sculpture garden. An automated three-car, cable-pulled hovertrain funicular, the \"Getty Center Tram\", takes passengers between the parking garage at the bottom of the hill and the Museum at the top of the hill.\n\nVisitors typically arrive at a tram station in the arrival plaza located between the administrative buildings and the Museum entrance. A large set of steps leads to the main doors of the rotunda building. The rotunda building houses information desks, two orientation theatres and Museum shops. It also holds a grand staircase that starts a path toward the paintings located on the second floor of each art pavilion. The rotunda opens to the south to a terrace that links all five of the Museum pavilions. A separate building to the west of the arrival plaza and stairs holds a cafeteria and restaurant. Next to the restaurant is a stone arch, which separates the Museum from the GRI. Stairs from the terrace connecting the GRI and the restaurant lead down to the central garden.\n\nThe Getty Center also has a 7-story underground parking garage for visitors use as they visit the Center. Parking is $15 per vehicle or $10 after 3pm. \n\nThe J. Paul Getty Museum's estimated 1.8 million visitors annually make it one of the most visited museums in the United States. The collection of the J. Paul Getty Museum on display at the Getty Center includes \"pre-20th-century European paintings, drawings, illuminated manuscripts, sculpture, and decorative arts; and 19th- and 20th-century American and European photographs\". The paintings include:\n\nGetty's extensive photograph collection is located on the lower level of the west pavilion.\nThe Museum building consists of a three-level base building that is closed to the public and provides staff workspace and storage areas. Five public, two-story towers on the base are called the North, East, South, West and the Exhibitions Pavilions. The Exhibitions Pavilion acts as the temporary residence for traveling art collections and the Foundation's artwork for which the permanent pavilions have no room. The permanent collection is displayed throughout the other four pavilions chronologically: the north houses the oldest art while the west houses the newest. The first-floor galleries in each pavilion house light-sensitive art, such as illuminated manuscripts, furniture, or photography. Computer-controlled skylights on the second-floor galleries allow paintings to be displayed in natural light. The second floors are connected by a series of glass-enclosed bridges and open terraces, both of which offer views of the surrounding hillsides and central plaza. Sculpture is also on display at various points outside the buildings, including on various terraces and balconies. The lower level (the highest of the floors in the base) includes a public cafeteria, the terrace cafe, and the photography galleries.\n\nThe Central Garden at the Getty Center is the work of artist Robert Irwin. Planning for the garden began in 1992, construction started in 1996, and the garden was completed in December 1997.\n\nIrwin was quoted as saying that the Central Garden \"is a sculpture in the form of a garden, which aims to be art.\" Water plays a major role in the garden. A fountain near the restaurant flows toward the garden and appears to fall into a grotto on the north garden wall. The resulting stream then flows down the hillside into the azalea pool. The designers placed rocks and boulders of varying size in the stream bed to vary the sounds from the flowing water. A tree-lined stream descends to a plaza, while the walkway criss-crosses the stream, which continues through the plaza, and goes over a stone waterfall into a round pool. A maze of azaleas floats in the pool, around which is a series of specialty gardens. More than 500 varieties of plant material are used for the Central Garden, but the selection is \"always changing, never twice the same\".\n\nAfter the original design, an outdoor sculpture garden, called the \"Lower Terrace Garden\" was added in 2007 on the west side of the central garden just below the scholar's wing of the GRI building.\n\nThe Getty Research Institute (GRI) is \"dedicated to furthering knowledge and advancing understanding of the visual arts.\" Among other holdings, GRI's research library contains over 900,000 volumes of books, periodicals, and auction catalogs; special collections; and two million photographs of art and architecture. GRI's other activities include exhibitions, publications, and a residential scholars program. At the Getty Center, GRI is located to the west of the Museum. The round building encircles a landscaped garden and is located to the west of the central garden. The main entrance of GRI is connected by a terrace to the main arrival court of the Museum, with outdoor sculptures placed along the route. GRI has one art gallery on its entrance level that is open to the public.\n\nMeier also designed three other buildings located next to the north promontory and offset at a 22.5 degree angle from the main axis of the Museum pavilions. The north-most building is an auditorium. Next to it is the North Building, with the East Building sitting between the North Building and the rotunda. The main entrance to the East Building is flanked by two round silos that hold its elevators. A bridge over a sunken courtyard links the main entrance of the East Building to the main walkway that connects the auditorium and North Buildings to the rotunda. These buildings house the Getty Conservation Institute (GCI), the J. Paul Getty Trust and the Getty Foundation. These buildings are generally closed to the public except for special events held in the auditorium. They are linked to the Museum both by landscaped terraces and by an enclosed glass walkway that leads from the main rotunda.\n\nGCI, which is headquartered at the Getty Center but also has facilities at the Getty Villa, commenced operation in 1985. It \"serves the conservation community through scientific research, education and training, model field projects, and the dissemination of the results of both its own work and the work of others in the field\" and \"adheres to the principles that guide the work of the Getty Trust: service, philanthropy, teaching, and access\". GCI has activities in both art conservation and architectural conservation.\n\nThe Getty Foundation awards grants for \"the understanding and preservation of the visual arts\". In addition, it runs the Getty Leadership Institute for \"current and future museum leaders\". Its offices are north of the Museum. The foundation offices are located in the two administrative buildings that are north of the Museum. The J. Paul Getty Trust, which oversees the Getty Conservation Institute, Getty Foundation, Getty Research Institute, and J. Paul Getty Museum, also has offices there.\n\nAlthough the Center's site was thought to have little motion during earthquakes, which are frequent in the Los Angeles area, in 1994, as the Center was being constructed, the Northridge earthquake struck. It caused \"disturbing hairline cracks... in the welds and plated joints of the steel framework.\" As a result, the steelwork through the site was retrofitted. The Center's buildings are thought to be able to survive an earthquake of 7.5 magnitude on the Richter scale.\n\nIn the 16 electrical transformers at the Center, silicone fluid is used as a coolant \"with less risk of ignition\" than hydrocarbon coolant. The native flammable chaparral was removed and fire-resistant poverty weed was added to the slopes around the Center. Each year, a herd of goats is rented to clear brush on the surrounding hills.\n\nAt the north end of the Center, a tank with of water, together with a grass-covered helipad, allow helicopters to collect water. The access ramp from the entry plaza to the Museum was constructed to allow a fire truck to pass over it. Inside the Museum, the sprinkler system is designed to balance \"between the potential damage of a fire and the risk of water damage to valuable artwork\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1219810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1219810", "title": "Historic preservation", "text": "Historic preservation\n\nHistoric preservation (US), heritage preservation or heritage conservation (UK), is an endeavour that seeks to preserve, conserve and protect buildings, objects, landscapes or other artifacts of historical significance.\nThis term refers specifically to the preservation of the built environment, and not to preservation of, for example, primeval forests or wilderness.\n\nIn England, antiquarian interests were a familiar gentleman's pursuit since the mid 17th century, developing in tandem with the rise in scientific curiosity. Fellows of the Royal Society were often also Fellows of the Society of Antiquaries.\n\nMany historic sites were damaged as the railways began to spread across the UK; including Trinity Hospital and its church in Edinburgh, Furness Abbey, Berwick and Northampton Castle, and the ancient walls of York, Chester and Newcastle. In 1833 Berkhamsted Castle became the first historic site in England officially protected by statute under the London and Birmingham Railway Acts of 18331837, though the new railway line in 1834 did demolish the castle's gatehouse and outer earthworks to the south.\nAnother early preservation event also occurred at Berkhamsted. In 1866, Lord Brownlow who lived at Ashridge, tried to enclose the adjoining Berkhamsted Common with steel fences in an attempt to claim it as part of his estate. In England from early Anglo-Saxon times, Common land was an area of land which the local community could use as a resource. Across England between 1660 and 1845, 7 million acres of Common land had been enclosed by private land owners by application to parliament. On the night of 6 March 1866, Augustus Smith MP led gangs of local folk and hired men from London's East End in direct action to break the enclosure fences and protect Berkhamsted Common for the people of Berkhamsted in what became known nationally as the Battle of Berkhamsted Common. In 1870, Sir Robert Hunter (later co-founder of the National Trust in 1895) and the Commons Preservation Society succeed in legal action that ensured protection of Berkhamsted Common and other open spaces threatened with enclosure. In 1926 the common was acquired by the National Trust.\n\nBy the mid 19th century, much of Britain's unprotected cultural heritage was being slowly destroyed. Even well-meaning archaeologists like William Greenwell excavated sites with virtually no attempt at their preservation, Stonehenge came under increasing threat by the 1870s. Tourists were chipping off parts of the stones or carving their initials into the rock. The private owners of the monument decided to sell the land to the London and South-Western Railway as the monument was \"not the slightest use to anyone now\". John Lubbock, an MP and botanist emerged as the champion of the country's national heritage. In 1872 he personally bought private land that housed ancient monuments in Avebury, Silbury Hill and elsewhere, from the owners who were threatening to have them cleared away to make room for housing. Soon, he began campaigning in Parliament for legislation to protect monuments from destruction. This finally led to the legislative milestone under the Liberal government of William Gladstone of the Ancient Monuments Protection Act 1882. The first government appointed inspector for this job was the archaeologist Augustus Pitt-Rivers. This legislation was regarded by conservative political elements as a grave assault on the individual rights of property of the owner, and consequently, the inspector only had the power to identify endangered landmarks and offer to purchase them from the owner with his consent. The Act only covered ancient monuments and explicitly did not cover historic buildings or structures. In 1877 the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings was founded by the Arts and Crafts designer William Morris to prevent the destruction of historic buildings, followed by the National Trust in 1895 that bought estates from their owners for preservation.\n\nThe Ancient Monuments Protection Act 1882 had only given legal protection to prehistoric sites, such as ancient tumuli. The Ancient Monuments Protection Act 1900 took this further by empowering the government's Commissioners of Work and local County Councils to protect a wider range of properties. Further updates were made in 1910.\nTattershall Castle, Lincolnshire, a medieval manor house had been put up for sale in 1910 with its greatest treasures, the huge medieval fireplaces, still intact. However, when an American bought the house they were ripped out and packaged up for shipping. The former viceroy of India, George Curzon, 1st Marquess Curzon of Kedleston, was outraged at this cultural destruction and stepped in to buy back the castle and reinstall the fireplaces. After a nationwide hunt for them they were finally found in London and returned. He restored the castle and left it to the National Trust on his death in 1925. His experience at Tattershall influenced Lord Curzon to push for tougher heritage protection laws in Britain, which saw passage as the Ancient Monuments Consolidation and Amendment Act 1913.\n\nThe new structure involved the creation of the Ancient Monuments Board to oversee the protection of such monuments. Powers were given for the board, with Parliamentary approval, to issue preservation orders to protect monuments, and extended the public right of access to these. The term \"monument\" was extended to include the lands around it, allowing the protection of the wider landscape.\n\nThe National Trust was founded in 1894 by Octavia Hill, Sir Robert Hunter, and Hardwicke Canon Rawnsley as the first organisation of its type in the world. Its formal purpose is: The preservation for the benefit of the Nation of lands and tenements (including buildings) of beauty or historic interest and, as regards lands, for the preservation of their natural aspect, features and animal and plant life. Also the preservation of furniture, pictures and chattels of any description having national and historic or artistic interest.\n\nIn the early days, the Trust was concerned primarily with protecting open spaces and a variety of threatened buildings; its first property was Alfriston Clergy House and its first nature reserve was Wicken Fen. Its first archaeological monument was White Barrow. The focus on country houses and gardens, which now comprise the majority of its most visited properties, came about in the mid 20th century, when it was realised that the private owners of many of these properties were no longer able to afford to maintain them.\n\nThe Town and Country Planning Act 1944 and the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 took steps toward historic preservation on an unprecedented scale. Concern about the demolition of historic buildings arose in institutions such as the pressure group the Society for the Preservation of Historic Buildings, which appealed against demolition and neglect on a case by case basis.\n\nEnglish Heritage formed in 1983, is a registered charity that looks after the National Heritage Collection in England. This comprises over 400 of England's historic buildings, monuments and sites spanning more than 5,000 years of history. Within its portfolio are Stonehenge, Dover Castle, Tintagel Castle and the best preserved parts of Hadrian's Wall.\n\nOriginally English Heritage was the operating name of an executive non-departmental public body of the British Government, officially titled the Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England, that ran the national system of heritage protection and managed a range of historic properties. It was created to combine the roles of existing bodies that had emerged from a long period of state involvement in heritage protection. In 1999 the organisation merged with the Royal Commission on the Historical Monuments of England and the National Monuments Record (England), bringing together resources for the identification and survey of England's historic environment. On 1 April 2015, English Heritage was divided into two parts: Historic England, which inherited the statutory and protection functions of the old organisation, and the new English Heritage Trust, a charity that would operate the historic properties, and which took on the English Heritage operating name and logo. The British government gave the new charity an £80 million grant to help establish it as an independent trust, although the historic properties remained in the ownership of the state.\n\nIn the United States one of the first historic preservation efforts was the\nWashington's Headquarters State Historic Site, in Newburgh, New York. This property has the distinction of being the first-ever property designated and operated as a historic site by a U.S. state, having been so since 1850.\n\nAnother early historic preservation undertaking was that of George Washington's Mount Vernon in 1858. Founded in 1889, the Richmond, Virginia-based Preservation Virginia (formerly known as the Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities) was the United States' first statewide historic preservation group. The American Scenic and Historic Preservation Society was formed in 1895 as the first American organization of its kind in the United States that did not limit its activities to a single historic place or object. The Society operated as a national organization to: protect the natural scenery and the preservation of historic landmarks; to preserve landmarks and records of the past or present; to erect memorials and promote appreciation of the scenic beauty of America.\n\nCharles E. Peterson was an influential figure in the mid-20th century establishing the Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS), advising on the establishment of Independence National Historical Park, helping with the first graduate degree program in historic preservation in the United States at Columbia University, and author.\n\nThe architectural firm of Simons & Lapham (Albert Simons and Samuel Lapham) was an influential supporter of the nation's first historic preservation ordinance in Charleston, South Carolina in 1930, affording that city a regulatory means by which to prevent the destruction of its historic building stock. In 1925, efforts to preserve the historic buildings of the French Quarter in New Orleans led to the creation of the Vieux Carré Commission and later, to the adoption of a historic preservation ordinance.\n\nThe US National Trust for Historic Preservation, another privately funded non-profit organization, began in 1949 with a handful of structures and has developed goals that provide \"leadership, education, advocacy, and resources to save America's diverse historic places and revitalize our communities\" according to the Trust's mission statement. In 1951 the Trust assumed responsibility for its first museum property, Woodlawn Plantation in northern Virginia. Twenty-eight sites in all have subsequently become part of the National Trust, representing the cultural diversity of American history. In New York City, the destruction of Pennsylvania Station in 1964 shocked many nationwide into supporting preservation. The 1960s proved advantageous with new laws and international agreements extending preservation \"from ancient monuments to whole districts and buildings a few decades old.\" On an international level, the New York-based World Monuments Fund was founded in 1965 to preserve historic sites all over the world.\n\nUnder the direction of James Marston Fitch, the first advanced-degree historic preservation program began at Columbia University in 1964. It became the model on which most other graduate historic preservation programs were created. Many other programs were to follow before 1980: M.A. in Preservation Planning from Cornell (1975); M.S. in Historic Preservation from the University of Vermont (1975); M.S. in Historic Preservation Studies from Boston University (1976); M.S. in Historic Preservation from Eastern Michigan University (1979) and M.F.A. in Historic Preservation was one of the original programs at Savannah College of Art & Design. James Marston Fitch also offered guidance and support towards the founding of the Master of Preservation Studies Degree within the Tulane School of Architecture in 1996. The M.Sc. in Building Conservation degree program is offered by the School of Architecture at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York. In 2005, Clemson University and the College of Charleston created an M.S. degree program based in Charleston, SC. The first undergraduate programs (B.A.) appeared in 1977 from Goucher College and Roger Williams University (then called Roger Williams College), followed by Mary Washington College in 1979. there were more than fifty historic preservation programs offering certificates, associate, bachelor's, and master's degrees in the United States.\n\nIn Canada, the phrase \"heritage preservation\" is sometimes seen as a specific approach to the treatment of historic places and sites, rather than a general concept of conservation. \"Conservation\" is taken as the more general term, referring to all actions or processes that are aimed at safeguarding the character-defining elements of a cultural resource so as to retain its heritage value and extend its physical life.\n\nHistoric objects in Canada may be granted special designation by any of the three levels of government: the central government, the provincial governments, or a municipal government.\nThe Heritage Canada Foundation acts as Canada's lead advocacy organisation for heritage buildings and landscapes.\nVictor de Stuers is widely considered the man who started historic preservation in the Netherlands. In 1875 the first national department for conservation was established and de Stuers was appointed as the first legal secretary at the Ministry of Home Affairs as chief of the brand new Department of Arts and Sciences. He was the driving force behind \"Monumentenzorg\" (Foundation for Historic Preservation), helped found the \"Rijksmuseum\" (National Museum) and the \"Rijksarchief\" (National Archives).\n\nHowever, it was not until the 20th century that there was national legislation on historic preservation. In 1961 the (“Monuments Act”) was passed. It defined that any physical building or space that was at least fifty years old and “which are of general interest because of their beauty, their meaning to science or their social value” and must thus be preserved. In 1988 this Act was replaced by the \"\" (“Monuments Act 1988”) and in 2015 by the \"\" (“Heritage Law”).\n\nIn 1973, the NGO \"Monumentenwacht\" (“Monument Watch”) was founded with the purpose of providing preventative measures of maintenance for historic buildings. As the majority of the historic preservation programs in the Netherlands, this program is decentralized, managed on the provincial level. Owners of heritage buildings can subscribe to the services of Monumentenwacht and receive regular visits for inspection. The costs are covered through a combination of national and provincial subsidies.\n\nA special kind of preservation that takes place in the Netherlands is the preservation of maritime heritage. Maritime trade was the Dutch specialty which shaped much of their culture and as a country that is 50% under sea level the Dutch history is closely intertwined with water. There are maritime museums in both Amsterdam and Rotterdam that tell the story of the Dutch maritime heritage, but there is not much legal documentation on how to preserve it. For example, according to Sarah Dromgoole, shipwrecks from The Dutch East India Company are found all around the world, which are still property of the Netherlands, but the Dutch government rarely takes responsibility for this property that is found outside of their territory.\n\nIn Macedonia, historic preservation falls under the overarching category of cultural heritage preservation according to the Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage (Закон за заштита на културното наследство). According to this law, which the Macedonian Parliament approved in March 2004, there are three types of cultural heritage: immovable, movable, and intangible. Historical preservation is represented by the protection of monuments and monumental entireties under immovable cultural heritage, and historical items under movable cultural heritage.\n\nAlthough this Law was the first nation-wide establishment of regulations for historic preservation since the Republic of Macedonia gained independence from Yugoslavia on September 8, 1991, several organizations throughout the 20th century have encompassed efforts of historic preservation.\n\nThe “Central office for protection of cultural monuments and natural rarities of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia” has existed since 1949. In 1960, the Central Office was renamed to “National office for protection of cultural monuments”, and granted the status of an independent cultural institution, with authority to execute activities of historic preservation. After the establishment of the Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage in 2004, the Ministry of Culture once again renamed the office to “National center for conservation” and narrowed down its responsibilities to dealing solely with preservation of immovable cultural heritage.\n\nOther organizations which have contributed to the efforts of historic preservation are the Macedonian National Committee of ICOMOS and the NI Institute for Protection of Monuments of Culture and Museum-Ohrid.\n\nThe International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS) established their branch in Macedonia in 1995 through the initiative of 43 conservationists from Macedonia. The guiding principles of the Macedonian National Committee of ICOMOS are raising the national consciousness about the importance of historic and cultural heritage, decentralization of the discourse about heritage, and effective monitoring of the status of cultural and historic heritage in the country.\n\nThe NI Institute for Protection of Monuments of Culture and Museum - Ohrid is the second oldest institutions for historical preservation established in 1952. In 1956 the Institute was granted authority to protect movable and immovable cultural and historic heritage in the Ohrid region. The Institute has since executed numerous efforts for historic preservation, most notably aiding the recognition of the city of Ohrid as a UNESCO site of cultural heritage in 1979.\n\nToday, the main authority for historic preservation is the Cultural Heritage Protection Office (Управа за заштита на културно наследство). The Office is an independent governmental organization under the Ministry of Culture, divided into three departments:\n\nIn Israel, there are currently two laws concerning historic preservation, Antiquities Law of the State of Israel (1978) and Planning and Building Law (1965). Both laws were adapted from the British law that was implemented during the British Mandate of Palestine.\n\nHowever, these laws are not comprehensive and limited in scope: the Antiquities Law only applies itself to buildings or artifacts dated before 1700 BC. So while efforts discovering and protecting anything older than 1700 BC are well protected, anything from later historical periods is not under the protection of this law. The Planning and Building Law discusses the overall management and regulation of land use in Israel. It has been through several changes and amendments specifically regarding preservation, but over the years it hasn't been enforced and many historical sites were destroyed, as the state was prioritizing developmental and economic interests.\n\nDuring the 1960s, the issue of preservation was gaining public awareness, and as a response to the destruction of Herzliya Hebrew Gymnasium (one of the first educational institutions in Israel) in 1959, a wave of shock and anger led to extensive public debate.\n\nIn 1984, The Council for Conservation of Heritage Sites in Israel was established, at the recommendation of the Knesset and the Committee of Education. Its aims include locating remains of historic settlements, protect and conserve them as well as developing conservation principles that are specific to Israel’s historic situations and are aligned with international standards. The council used to operate under the Society for the Protection of Nature in Israel but in 2008 registers as an independent non-profit. Today, it is the organization responsible for the most historical preservation endeavors as well as efforts to add amendments to existing laws to provide a comprehensive and effective framework for preservation in Israel.\n\nA different, separate effort in preservation comes from the Israeli Defense Force (IDF). The IDF surveyed 94 military bases and found that about 80 of them include sites worth preserving, and for each of these bases there is a preservation plan. The IDF is working towards maintaining these building as well as communicating their value to the soldiers in these bases. Buildings include Knights Templar sites, old military bases used by the British or German or buildings from the Ottoman period.\n\nA historic district in the United States is a group of buildings, properties, or sites that have been designated by one of several entities on different levels as historically or architecturally significant. Buildings, structures, objects and sites within a historic district are normally divided into two categories, contributing and non-contributing. Districts greatly vary in size, some having hundreds of structures while others have just a few.\n\nThe U.S. federal government designates historic districts through the U.S. Department of Interior, under the auspices of the National Park Service. Federally designated historic districts are listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Historic districts allows rural areas to preserve their characters through historic preservation programs. These include \"Main Street\" programs that can be used to redevelop rural downtowns. Using historic preservation programs as an economic development tool for local governments in rural areas has enabled some of those areas to take advantage of their history and develop a tourism market that in turn provides funds for maintaining an economic stability that these areas would not have seen otherwise.\n\nA similar concept exists in the United Kingdom: a Conservation area is designated in accordance with the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 in order to protect a zone in which there are buildings of architectural or cultural heritage interest.\n\nIn 1835, the English poet William Wordsworth described the Lake District as a \"sort of national property, in which every man has a right and interest who has an eye to perceive and a heart to enjoy.\"\n\nIt was, however, the United States that led the world in the creation of National Parks, areas of unspoiled natural wilderness, where the intrusion of civilization are intentionally minimal.\n\nThe department of the interior designated several areas of Morristown, New Jersey as the first historic park in the United States national park system. It became designated as the Morristown National Historical Park. The community had permanent settlements that date to 1715, is termed the military capital of the American Revolution, and contains many designations of sites and locations. The park includes three major sites in Morristown.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, James Bryce the ambassador to the US praised the system of National Parks and campaigned to have them introduced in Great Britain. Little came of it until mounting public pressure during the early 20th century from the Ramblers' Association and other groups led to the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949.\n\nAccording to UNESCO’s 1972 World Heritage Convention, landscapes and sites of outstanding universal value can be designated as World Heritage Sites. The World Heritage Convention encompasses historic preservation under the category of “cultural heritage”. According to Article 1 of the Convention, monuments, groups of buildings, and sites “which are of outstanding universal value from the point of view of history, art or science” are to be designated cultural heritage.\n\nA requirement of such designation is that the designating nation has appropriate legal, scientific, technical, administrative and financial measures in place to identify, protect, conserve, present, and rehabilitate world heritage sites. However, according to Article 6 of the Convention, while sovereignty of the State where the site is located is not to be compromised, the State acknowledges that protection of heritage sites is a duty of the entire international community.\n\nThe World Heritage convention’s counterpart, The World Heritage Committee, is the body responsible for the practical implementation of the Convention as well as managing and deciding how to use the World Heritage Fund. The Committee also gets to have the final say when determining whether a property will be included in the World Heritage List.\n\nThe Committee meets once a year and includes representatives from 21 states that are part of the States Parties. Yearly reports are available to the public on the World Heritage website and include outlines of decisions made, outcomes, working documents and various reports.\n\nAlthough preservation efforts can have benefits for the owners of historical buildings, such as tax cuts and subsidies, there are also drawbacks.\n\nOne such drawback is that after a neighborhood has been designated to be historically preserved, there is less construction. On the long term this can affect the value of property and investment in housing, both in the neighborhood itself and the neighborhoods directly surrounding it.\n\nA second concern that has been raised is that buildings that need to be historically preserved are sometimes still inhabited. In some cases their inability to make changes to the building can lead to dangerous or unhealthy situations for residents.\n\nIt is not true that nothing could be changed or renovated, but the owner of the building would need to ask permission at the appropriate preservation society, slowing the process down severely. The exact policies are country dependent.\n\n\nAlthough volunteers continue to play a large role in historic preservation activities, the field has seen an increased level of professionalization. Today, there are many career options in historic preservation in the public, non-profit and private sectors. Institutes of secondary education (universities, colleges, etc.) in the United States offer both certificate and degree (A.A.S, B.A., B.F.A., B.S., M.A., M.F.A., M.D.S, M.H.P., M.S., and PhD) programs in historic preservation. Some pupils—at schools with such programmes available—choose to enroll in \"joint degree\" programs, earning a degree in historic preservation along with one in another, related subject, often an MArch, MUP or JD degree.\n\nPossible career fields include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49265376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49265376", "title": "Hovden Cannery", "text": "Hovden Cannery\n\nThe Hovden Cannery in Cannery Row, Monterey, California was among the oldest, largest canneries of the Pacific Sardine Fishery. In the first half of the 20th century, it marked one of the most lucrative national fisheries. It was a source for literary inspiration in the works of John Steinbeck.\n\nHovden Cannery was founded in 1916 by Knute Hovden, a leading innovator in canning technology, and closed in 1973 after the collapse of the area fish population.\n\nThe former cannery building is now the site of the Monterey Bay Aquarium, which opened in 1984.\n"}
{"id": "13535139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13535139", "title": "Jellyfish.com", "text": "Jellyfish.com\n\nJellyfish.com was a reverse auction online shopping site website. The Middleton, Wisconsin-based company was acquired by Microsoft in 2007. On May 22, 2008, Microsoft officially announced the cash back service as part of their Live Search group of tools. The site was shut down at midnight, February 16, 2009.\n\nJellyfish launched the first beta version of service in June 2006, after receiving an initial seed round of investment from its founders, Brian Wiegand and Mark McGuire, and Kegonsa Capital Partners.\n\nIn a press release, Kegonsa Capital Partners said that it acquired 25 percent of Jellyfish.com's stock for about $600,000 in February 2006, and made 15 times its seed investment with the deal.\n\nOn October 2006, Jellyfish raised an additional 5 million dollars in funding. According to their founders, Jellyfish has 1,000 retailers advertising more than 5 million products, from shoes to electronics to home appliances. It was expected to have 20 employees by the end of October 2006, at the Old Sauk Trails business park, on the Far West Side.\n\nKegonsa, a Fitchburg, Wisconsin group with 42 Wisconsin investors, led the second round of investment on October 2006, with more than $1 million in October 2006 through the Kegonsa Co-Invest fund, for a total of $5 million. The second round investors more than doubled their investment in less than a year.\n\nIn an interview in July 2007, Wiegand said Jellyfish had sold nearly $5 million worth of products, \"everything from bicycles to shoes\".\n\nMcGuire explained that the name Jellyfish was chosen because they wanted to be completely transparent.\n\nIn 2007, Microsoft purchased Jellyfish. for an estimated price of $50 million. The Jellyfish engine can be used as a part of Microsoft Live Search. When bought by Microsoft, it had 26 employees.\n\nLive Search Cashback allow users to search for products from multiple vendors and find their prices. It offers money back for purchases made through the site. This service started in June 2006 \n\n"}
{"id": "271300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271300", "title": "José Padilla (prisoner)", "text": "José Padilla (prisoner)\n\nJosé Padilla (born October 18, 1970), also known as Abdullah al-Muhajir ( ) or Muhajir Abdullah, is a United States citizen from Brooklyn, New York, who was convicted in federal court of aiding terrorists.\n\nPadilla was arrested in Chicago on May 8, 2002, on suspicion of plotting a radiological bomb (\"dirty bomb\") attack. He was detained as a material witness until June 9, 2002, when President George W. Bush designated him an enemy combatant and, arguing that he was not entitled to trial in civilian courts, had him transferred to a military prison in South Carolina. Padilla was held for three and a half years as an enemy combatant. Upon pressure and lawsuits from civil liberties groups, he was transferred to a civilian jail in 2006.\n\nIn August 2007, a federal jury found him guilty of conspiring to commit murder and fund terrorism. Government officials had earlier claimed Padilla was suspected of planning to build and explode a \"dirty bomb\" in the United States, but he was never charged with this crime. He was initially sentenced to 17 years in prison, which was increased on appeal to 21 years. His lawsuits against the military for allegedly torturing him were rejected by the courts for lack of merit and jurisdictional issues.\n\nJose Padilla was born in Brooklyn, New York to Estella Obregon and her husband, both of Puerto Rican descent. The family later moved to Chicago, Illinois. As a youth, Padilla joined the Latin Kings street gang and was arrested several times. During his gang years, he maintained several aliases, such as José Rivera, José Alicea, José Hernandez, and José Ortiz. As a 14-year-old juvenile, he was convicted of aggravated assault and manslaughter after a gang member, whom he had kicked in the head, died.\n\nAfter serving his last jail sentence, Padilla converted to Islam. One of his early religious instructors was an Islamic teacher who professed a nonviolent philosophy and Padilla appeared at the time to be faithful to his mentor's teachings.\n\nWhile living in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Padilla attended the Masjid Al-Iman mosque, as did Adham Amin Hassoun, \"for most of the 1990s and [they] were reportedly friends.\"\n\nU.S. authorities accused Hassoun of associating with radical Islamic fundamentalists, including Al-Qaeda. Hassoun, a Lebanese-born Palestinian, was arrested in 2002 for overstaying his visa and was charged in 2004 with providing material support to terrorists. By that time, Hassoun had already been charged with perjury, a weapons offense, and other offenses.\n\nBroward County, Florida court records show that on July 1, 1994, Padilla changed his name to one word: \"Ibrahim\". He was married under that name to Cherie Maria Stultz on January 2, 1996. They divorced in March 2001, according to court records. In January 2001, she had placed an ad in a local business newspaper, serving notice that she was seeking divorce. Their divorce papers identify him as Jose Ibrahim Padilla.\n\nPadilla married an Egyptian woman named Shamia'a, and they had two sons together. When he was arrested in 2002, the boys were infants. At his bail hearing, his wife and children were believed to be overseas.\n\nAccording to press reports in 2002, Padilla had been in the Afghanistan–Pakistan region in 2001 and early 2002.\n\nAt the time, the Defense Department said that Abu Zubaydah, then believed to be a top al-Qaeda official, had led the US to Padilla.\n\nPadilla was alleged to have been trained in the construction and employment of radiologic weapons – \"dirty bombs\" – at an al-Qaeda safe house in Lahore, Pakistan. Padilla and Binyam Mohammed, a United Kingdom resident, were alleged to have been recruited at the Lahore safe house to travel to the United States to launch terrorist attacks.\n\nHowever, more recent evidence suggests that the \"dirty bomb\" plot was likely a ruse to get out of Pakistan and based on an internet joke website purporting to describe how to build an H-bomb by swinging buckets of uranium as fast as possible. A 2003 CIA memo notes that the satirical article \"is filled with countless technical inaccuracies which would likely result in the death of anyone attempting to follow the instructions, and definitely would not result in a nuclear explosion\".\n\nPadilla traveled to Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq. On his return, he was arrested by U.S. Customs agents at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport on May 8, 2002, and held as a material witness on a warrant issued in the state of New York stemming from the September 11, 2001 attacks.\n\nOn June 9, 2002, two days before District Court Judge Michael Mukasey was to issue a ruling on the validity of continuing to hold Padilla under the material witness warrant, President George Bush issued an order to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to detain Padilla as an \"enemy combatant.\" Padilla was transferred to a military brig in Charleston, South Carolina without any notice to his attorney or family. The order \"legally justified\" the detention using the 2001 AUMF passed in the wake of September 11, 2001 (formally \"The Authorization for Use of Military Force Joint Resolution\" (Public Law 107-40)) and opined that a U.S. citizen detained on U.S. soil can be classified as an enemy combatant. (This opinion is based on the decision of the United States Supreme Court in the case of \"Ex parte Quirin\", a case involving the detention of eight German spies operating in the United States while working for Nazi Germany during World War II).\n\nAccording to the text of the ensuing decision from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, Padilla's detention as an \"enemy combatant\" (pursuant to the President's order) was based on the following reasons:\n\nShortly after September 26, 2002, the top political appointees David Addington, Alberto Gonzales, John A. Rizzo, William Haynes II, two Justice Department lawyers, Alice S. Fisher and Patrick F. Philbin, and then-Special Counsel to the General Counsel of the Department of Defense Jack Goldsmith flew to Camp Delta to view Mohammed al-Kahtani, then to Charleston, South Carolina, to view Padilla, and finally to Norfolk, Virginia, to view Yaser Esam Hamdi, who had been subjected to coercive techniques including solitary confinement. It was later learned that top administration officials had earlier discussed and approved the use of enhanced interrogation techniques for the CIA. They were consulting with DOD agents to discuss techniques that might be used against the detainees in military custody. Later that year, additional \"harsh techniques\" were used on these three and other prisoners.\n\nIn October 2008, 91 pages of memos drafted in 2002 by officers at the Naval Consolidated Brig, Charleston were made public. The memos indicate that officers were concerned that the isolation of solitary confinement and lack of stimuli were causing the prisoner Yasser Hamdi mental anguish and threatened his sanity. The memos also state that Padilla and a third prisoner, Ali Saleh Kahlah al-Marri, were held in similar conditions at the Brig.\n\nBecause Padilla was being detained without any criminal charges being formally made against him, he, through his lawyer, made a petition for a writ of \"habeas corpus\" to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, naming then Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld as the respondent to this petition. The government filed a motion to dismiss the petition on the grounds that:\n\nThe New York District Court disagreed with the government's arguments and denied its motion. However, the court declared that President Bush had constitutional and statutory authority to designate and detain American citizens as \"enemy combatants.\" It held that Padilla had the right to challenge his \"enemy combatant\" designation and detention in the course of his \"habeas corpus\" petition, although immediate release was denied. Both Padilla and the government made an interlocutory appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.\n\nOn December 18, 2003, the Second Circuit declared that\n\nDeclaring that without clear congressional approval (per ), President Bush cannot detain an American citizen arrested in the United States and away from a zone of combat as an \"illegal enemy combatant,\" the court ordered that Padilla be released from the military brig within 30 days. However, the court had stayed the release order pending the government's appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nOn February 20, 2004, the Supreme Court agreed to hear the government's appeal. The Supreme Court heard the case, \"Rumsfeld v. Padilla\", in April 2004, but on June 28, 2004, the court dismissed the petition on technical grounds because\n\nThe case was refiled in the U.S. District Court for the District of South Carolina, and on February 28, 2005, the court ordered that the government either charge or release Padilla. On June 13, 2005, the Supreme Court denied the government's petition to have his case heard directly by the court, instead of the appeal being first heard by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit in Richmond, Virginia. On September 9, 2005, a three-judge panel of the Fourth Circuit ruled that President Bush had the authority to detain Padilla without charges. An opinion written by judge J. Michael Luttig cited the joint resolution by Congress authorizing military action following the September 11, 2001, attacks, as well as the June 2004 ruling concerning Yaser Hamdi.\n\nAttorneys for Padilla and civil liberties organizations, filing \"amicus curiae\" briefs, argued that the detention was illegal. They said it could lead to the military holding anyone, from protesters to people who check out what the government considers the wrong books from the library. The Bush administration denied the allegations. The defense argument noted that the congressional military authorization (the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists) pertained only to nations, organizations, or persons whom the president \"determines planned, authorized, committed, or aided the September 11, 2001, attacks, or harbored such organizations or persons.\"\n\nThey advanced a reading of this language would suggest a Congressional limitation to the military power would assure an appropriately narrow range of detainees and that the power to detain would last only so long as the Congressional authorization was not revoked or remained in effect by its terms. Similarly, they noted that the Yaser Hamdi Supreme Court case (\"Hamdi v. Rumsfeld\") upon which the court relied, required a habeas corpus hearing for any alleged enemy combatant who demands one, claiming not to be such a combatant, which would require additional judicial or military tribunal oversight over each such detention.\n\nThe argument in the general public concerning the legality of Padilla's detention examined one of the provisions of the Military Commissions Act of 2006 enacted on October 17, 2006, which states:\n\nThe Military Commissions Act of 2006 does not apply by its terms to Padilla as he is a U.S. citizen. Other provisions of the Military Commissions Act of 2006 may provide civil and criminal amnesty to those involved in his case, who might otherwise face civil rights lawsuits or criminal liability for unlawfully detaining someone. The immunity provisions may be tested in a civil suit brought by Padilla against John Yoo of the Office of Legal Counsel, Department of Justice (discussed below).\n\nOn November 22, 2005, CNN reported that Padilla had been indicted in federal court on charges he \"conspired to murder, kidnap, and maim people overseas.\"\n\nPadilla's lawyer correlated the indictment's timing as avoidance of an impending Supreme Court hearing on the Padilla case: \"The administration is seeking to avoid a Supreme Court showdown over the issue.\"\n\nNone of the original allegations made by the U.S. government three years prior, which had contributed to Padilla's being held the majority of the time in solitary confinement, was part of the indictment, nor was there any charge related to incidents within the United States.\n\nDemocracy Now! further asserted:\n\nAttorney General Alberto Gonzales announced Padilla is being removed from military custody and charged with a series of crimes\" and \"There is no mention in the indictment of Padilla's alleged plot to use a dirty bomb in the United States. There is also no mention that Padilla ever planned to stage any attacks inside the country. And there is no direct mention of Al-Qaeda. Instead the indictment lays out a case involving five men who helped raise money and recruit volunteers in the 1990s to go overseas to countries including Chechnya, Bosnia, Somalia and Kosovo. Padilla, in fact, appears to play a minor role in the conspiracy. He is accused of going to a jihad training camp in Afghanistan but his lawyers said the indictment offers no evidence he ever engaged in terrorist activity.\n\nPadilla was held for years in military custody with no formal charges. Critics said such a process would allow the U.S. government to detain citizens indefinitely without presenting the case that would eventually be tried.\n\nOn December 21, 2005, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit refused to authorize a transfer from the Navy brig to civil court. The court suggested that the administration was manipulating the federal court system with \"intentional mooting\" in order to avoid Supreme Court review. It said that the \"shifting tactics in the case threatens [the government's] credibility with the courts.\"\n\nThe Solicitor General Paul Clement said that the federal appeals court decision \"defies both law and logic.\" He asked the Supreme Court authorize immediate transfer on December 30, 2005. This took place one day after Padilla's lawyers filed a petition charging the president with overstepping his authority.\n\nOn January 3, 2006, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a Bush administration request to transfer Padilla from military to civilian custody. He was transferred to a federal prison in Miami while the Supreme Court decided whether to accept his appeal of the government's authority to keep US citizens it designates \"enemy combatants\" in open-ended military confinement without benefit of trial.\n\nOn April 3, 2006, the Supreme Court declined, with three justices dissenting from denial of certiorari, to hear Padilla's appeal from the 4th Circuit Court's decision. It left the 4th Circuit court's ruling that the president had the power to designate and detain him as an \"enemy combatant\" without charges and with disregard to \"habeas corpus\".\n\nPadilla was indicted on three criminal counts in the Miami, Florida, criminal proceeding. He pleaded not guilty to all charges. The trial commenced on May 15, 2007, and lasted for 3 months.\n\nTwo weeks after the presiding judge claimed prosecutors were \"light on facts\" in their conspiracy allegations, the government dismissed one of its three charges against Padilla and dismissed another in part.\n\nThe count of conspiracy to murder (punishable by life imprisonment) was dismissed on August 16, 2006, on the grounds that it was duplicative of the other two counts pending against him. The second count was conspiracy to materially aid terrorists under (punishable by five years in prison) and the third was (punishable by 15 years in prison). The trial court ordered that the government elect a single criminal statute in its second count of the indictment.\n\nHowever, on January 30, 2007, the Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit reversed the ruling and reinstated a charge of conspiracy to \"murder, kidnap, and maim.\"\n\nTwo additional motions filed in October 2006 argued that the case should be dismissed because the government took too much time between arresting Padilla and charging him, violating Padilla's constitutional right to a speedy trial as the arrest took place prior to his detention as an enemy combatant and not when he was transferred to civilian custody.\n\nIn January 2007, a mental competency hearing was scheduled for Padilla for February 22, 2007. Two mental health experts hired by the defense to conduct a competency evaluation concluded Padilla was not mentally fit for trial; a third evaluation submitted by the Bureau of Prisons found him mentally competent. The judge ordered that Sandy Seymour, technical director of the Charleston brig; Craig Noble, brig psychologist; Andrew Cruz, brig social worker; four employees of the Miami federal detention center; and a Defense Department lawyer appear at the hearing.\n\nOn February 22, 2007, at the competency hearing, Dr. Angela Hegarty, a psychiatrist hired by Padilla's defense, said that after 22 hours of examining Padilla, she believed that he was mentally unfit to stand trial. She said he exhibited \"a facial tic, problems with social contact, lack of concentration and a form of Stockholm syndrome.\" She diagnosed his condition as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and told the court, \"It's my opinion that he lacks the capacity to assist counsel. He has a great deal of difficulty talking about the current case before him.\"\n\nIn cross examination, federal prosecutor John Shipley noted that Padilla had a score of zero on Hegarty's post-traumatic stress disorder test and pointed out that this information was omitted in her final report. Hegarty stated that the omission was an error on her part. Another psychiatrist hired by the defense testified along the same lines. The \"Miami Herald\" reported that a \"U.S. Bureau of Prisons psychiatrist who believes Padilla is fit to face trial and Defense Department officials—are expected to testify at the ongoing hearing before U.S. District Judge Marcia Cooke.\"\n\nOn August 16, 2007, after a day and a half of deliberations, the jury found Padilla guilty on all counts. He was scheduled to be sentenced on December 5, 2007, but his sentencing was postponed to January due to the death of a family member of the judge scheduled to sentence him. He was sentenced on January 22, 2008, to 17 years and 4 months in federal prison. His three co-defendants received sentences of 15 years, eight months, and 12 years and 8 months.\n\nBefore receiving his permanent prison assignment, Padilla was placed in the Federal Detention Center facility in Miami, Florida. Padilla is serving his sentence at the \"Supermax\" prison in Florence, Colorado. Padilla's prisoner number is 20796-424; his projected release date is August 6, 2025.\n\nAs of February 28, 2008, Padilla had appealed his conviction and sentence and the government had cross-appealed. The \"Wall Street Journal\" said in an editorial, \"the lawyers suing for Padilla aren't interested in justice. They're practicing 'lawfare', which is an effort to undermine the war on terror by making U.S. officials afraid to pursue it for fear of personal liability.\" In January 2012, the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a lower court decision and his case has been ruled on numerous times.\n\nOn September 19, 2011, a three-judge panel of the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals threw out the 17-year prison sentence imposed on Padilla, ruling that the sentence was too lenient. They sent the case back to the lower court for a new sentencing hearing. The Court said, \"Padilla's sentence of 12 years below the low end of the [sentencing] guidelines range reflects a clear error of judgment about the sentencing of this career offender.\" On September 9, 2014, the district court sentenced Padilla to 21 years.\n\nAndrew Patel, Padilla's lawyer, said after the guilty verdict,\nWhat happened in this trial, I think you have to put it in the context of federal conspiracy law, where the government doesn't have to prove that something happened, but just that people agree that something should happen in the future. In this case, it was even more strained. The crime charged in this case was actually an agreement to agree to do something in the future. So when you're dealing with a charge like that, you're not going to have—or the government's not going to be required to produce the kind of evidence that you would expect in a normal criminal case.\n\nAmerican economist Paul Craig Roberts criticized the jury's verdict in the Padilla case as having \"overthrown\" the Constitution and done far more damage to U.S. liberty than any terrorist could.\n\nBritish journalist Andy Worthington wrote:\n\n[Seventeen] years and four months seems to me to be an extraordinarily long sentence for little more than a thought crime, but when the issue of Padilla's three and half years of suppressed torture is raised, it's difficult not to conclude that justice has just been horribly twisted, that the president and his advisers have just got away with torturing an American citizen with impunity, and that no American citizen can be sure that what happened to Padilla will not happen to him or her. Today, it was a Muslim; tomorrow, unless the government's powers are taken away from them, it could be any number of categories of 'enemy combatants' who have not yet been identified.\n\nTimothy Lynch of the Cato Institute raised several issues related to the Padilla seizure in an \"amicus\" brief he filed to the Supreme Court. In it, he asks questions such as whether the president can lock up any person in the world and then deny that person access to family, defense counsel, and civilian court review; and objects to the use of \"harsh conditions\" and \"environmental stresses\". He questioned whether such techniques can be employed against anyone once the president gives an order. Those legal questions remain unsettled. Lynch argued that, by abruptly moving Padilla from the military brig and transferring him into the civil criminal justice system, the Bush administration was able to forestall Supreme Court review of the president's military powers.\n\nGlenn Greenwald, journalist and former constitutional law and civil rights litigator, wrote a highly critical piece in the online magazine \"Salon.com\" in September 2011.\n\nThe treatment Padilla has received in the justice system is, needless to say, the polar opposite of that enjoyed by these political elites ... Literally days before it was required to justify to the U.S. Supreme Court how it could imprison an American citizen for years without charges or access to a lawyer, the Bush administration suddenly indicted Padilla -- on charges unrelated to, and far less serious than, the accusation that he was A Dirty Bomber -- and then successfully convinced the Supreme Court to refuse to decide the legality of Padilla's imprisonment on the grounds of 'mootness', Greenwald opined.\n\nA 2012 editorial in the \"Wall Street Journal\" describes efforts of the ACLU and others on Padilla's behalf as \"lawfare\". It said that the court ruling throwing out a lawsuit filed for Padilla as a \"victory for legal sanity.\"\n\nOn January 4, 2008, Padilla and his mother filed suit against John Yoo in the U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (Case Number CV08 0035).\n\nThe complaint sought damages based on the alleged torture of Padilla, and attributed this treatment as having been authorized by Yoo's legal opinions issued in August 2002, known as the Torture memos. The claim was that Yoo caused Padilla's damages by authorizing his alleged torture through his memoranda.\n\nOn June 12, 2009, the trial court held that the complaint should not be dismissed for failure to state a claim, because if everything stated in the complaint was taken as true, it stated grounds for Yoo to be liable to Padilla for civil damages. But on February 17, 2011, the District Court dismissed another suit by Padilla against other former officials (including Leon Panetta who was Secretary of Defense at the time of the hearing) that had been brought on February 9, 2007. \"Lebron v. Rumsfeld\", 764 F.Supp.2d 787 (D.S.C.). On January 23, 2012, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed this dismissal.\n\nIn May 2012, the U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that Yoo could not be held accountable for Padilla's treatment because, though his treatment might have amounted to torture, it was not defined as such legally in 2002–2003 when it occurred.\n\nAccording to his attorney and others, Padilla has changed the pronunciation of his surname from the typical to .\n\nPadilla's Arabic name Abdullah al-Muhajir, which he began using during his jail sentence, literally means \"Abdullah the migrant\". \"Al-Muhajir\" is a \"laqab\" (epithet) rather than an adopted family name. Padilla is not related to or known to be connected in any way to Abu Hamza al-Muhajir.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3971631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3971631", "title": "KEGG", "text": "KEGG\n\nKEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) is a collection of databases dealing with genomes, biological pathways, diseases, drugs, and chemical substances. KEGG is utilized for bioinformatics research and education, including data analysis in genomics, metagenomics, metabolomics and other omics studies, modeling and simulation in systems biology, and translational research in drug development.\n\nThe KEGG database project was initiated in 1995 by Minoru Kanehisa, Professor at the Institute for Chemical Research, Kyoto University, under the then ongoing Japanese Human Genome Program. Foreseeing the need for a computerized resource that can be used for biological interpretation of genome sequence data, he started developing the KEGG PATHWAY database. It is a collection of manually drawn KEGG pathway maps representing experimental knowledge on metabolism and various other functions of the cell and the organism. Each pathway map contains a network of molecular interactions and reactions and is designed to link genes in the genome to gene products (mostly proteins) in the pathway. This has enabled the analysis called KEGG pathway mapping, whereby the gene content in the genome is compared with the KEGG PATHWAY database to examine which pathways and associated functions are likely to be encoded in the genome.\n\nAccording to the developers, KEGG is a \"computer representation\" of the biological system. It integrates building blocks and wiring diagrams of the system — more specifically, genetic building blocks of genes and proteins, chemical building blocks of small molecules and reactions, and wiring diagrams of molecular interaction and reaction networks. This concept is realized in the following databases of KEGG, which are categorized into systems, genomic, chemical, and health information.\n\n\nThe KEGG PATHWAY database, the wiring diagram database, is the core of the KEGG resource. It is a collection of pathway maps integrating many entities including genes, proteins, RNAs, chemical compounds, glycans, and chemical reactions, as well as disease genes and drug targets, which are stored as individual entries in the other databases of KEGG. The pathway maps are classified into the following sections:\n\n\nThe metabolism section contains aesthetically drawn global maps showing an overall picture of metabolism, in addition to regular metabolic pathway maps. The low-resolution global maps can be used, for example, to compare metabolic capacities of different organisms in genomics studies and different environmental samples in metagenomics studies. In contrast, KEGG modules in the KEGG MODULE database are higher-resolution, localized wiring diagrams, representing tighter functional units within a pathway map, such as subpathways conserved among specific organism groups and molecular complexes. KEGG modules are defined as characteristic gene sets that can be linked to specific metabolic capacities and other phenotypic features, so that they can be used for automatic interpretation of genome and metagenome data.\n\nAnother database that supplements KEGG PATHWAY is the KEGG BRITE database. It is an ontology database containing hierarchical classifications of various entities including genes, proteins, organisms, diseases, drugs, and chemical compounds. While KEGG PATHWAY is limited to molecular interactions and reactions of these entities, KEGG BRITE incorporates many different types of relationships.\n\nSeveral months after the KEGG project was initiated in 1995, the first report of the completely sequenced bacterial genome was published. Since then all published complete genomes are accumulated in KEGG for both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. The KEGG GENES database contains gene/protein-level information and the KEGG GENOME database contains organism-level information for these genomes. The KEGG GENES database consists of gene sets for the complete genomes, and genes in each set are given annotations in the form of establishing correspondences to the wiring diagrams of KEGG pathway maps, KEGG modules, and BRITE hierarchies.\n\nThese correspondences are made using the concept of orthologs. The KEGG pathway maps are drawn based on experimental evidence in specific organisms but they are designed to be applicable to other organisms as well, because different organisms, such as human and mouse, often share identical pathways consisting of functionally identical genes, called orthologous genes or orthologs. All the genes in the KEGG GENES database are being grouped into such orthologs in the KEGG ORTHOLOGY (KO) database. Because the nodes (gene products) of KEGG pathway maps, as well as KEGG modules and BRITE hierarchies, are given KO identifiers, the correspondences are established once genes in the genome are annotated with KO identifiers by the genome annotation procedure in KEGG.\n\nThe KEGG metabolic pathway maps are drawn to represent the dual aspects of the metabolic network: the genomic network of how genome-encoded enzymes are connected to catalyze consecutive reactions and the chemical network of how chemical structures of substrates and products are transformed by these reactions. A set of enzyme genes in the genome will identify enzyme relation networks when superimposed on the KEGG pathway maps, which in turn characterize chemical structure transformation networks allowing interpretation of biosynthetic and biodegradation potentials of the organism. Alternatively, a set of metabolites identified in the metabolome will lead to the understanding of enzymatic pathways and enzyme genes involved.\n\nThe databases in the chemical information category, which are collectively called KEGG LIGAND, are organized by capturing knowledge of the chemical network. In the beginning of the KEGG project, KEGG LIGAND consisted of three databases: KEGG COMPOUND for chemical compounds, KEGG REACTION for chemical reactions, and KEGG ENZYME for reactions in the enzyme nomenclature. Currently, there are additional databases: KEGG GLYCAN for glycans and two auxiliary reaction databases called RPAIR (reactant pair alignments) and RCLASS (reaction class). KEGG COMPOUND has also been expanded to contain various compounds such as xenobiotics, in addition to metabolites.\n\nIn KEGG, diseases are viewed as perturbed states of the biological system caused by perturbants of genetic factors and environmental factors, and drugs are viewed as different types of perturbants. The KEGG PATHWAY database includes not only the normal states but also the perturbed states of the biological systems. However, disease pathway maps cannot be drawn for most diseases because molecular mechanisms are not well understood. An alternative approach is taken in the KEGG DISEASE database, which simply catalogs known genetic factors and environmental factors of diseases. These catalogs may eventually lead to more complete wiring diagrams of diseases.\n\nThe KEGG DRUG database contains active ingredients of approved drugs in Japan, the USA, and Europe. They are distinguished by chemical structures and/or chemical components and associated with target molecules, metabolizing enzymes, and other molecular interaction network information in the KEGG pathway maps and the BRITE hierarchies. This enables an integrated analysis of drug interactions with genomic information. Crude drugs and other health-related substances, which are outside the category of approved drugs, are stored in the KEGG ENVIRON database. The databases in the health information category are collectively called KEGG MEDICUS, which also includes package inserts of all marketed drugs in Japan.\n\nIn July 2011 KEGG introduced a subscription model for FTP download due to a significant cutback of government funding. KEGG continues to be freely available through its website, but the subscription model has raised discussions about sustainability of bioinformatics databases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10733329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10733329", "title": "Leonard Maltin's Movie Guide", "text": "Leonard Maltin's Movie Guide\n\nLeonard Maltin's Movie Guide was a book-format collection of movie capsule reviews that began in 1969, was updated biennially after 1978, and then annually after 1986. The final edition was published in September 2014. It was originally called TV Movies, which became Leonard Maltin's TV Movies and Video Guide, and then Leonard Maltin's Movie and Video Guide, before arriving at its final title. Film critic Leonard Maltin edited it and contributed a large portion of its reviews.\n\nThe book used a star rating system. The lowest rating was \"BOMB\", followed by one and a half stars, rising in half-star increments to a maximum of four stars, \nand \nfrequently giving out two-and-a-half star ( **1/2 ) reviews. The sole exception to this was \"\", which was rated with two and one third stars out of four, referencing the film's title.\n\nMaltin did not cover direct-to-video films because of their great number (six released each week by 1994). Made-for-television films were included in the guides for many years, though in the early 2000s, Maltin gradually began to phase them out to make room for current feature film releases. All had been removed by the early 2010s, and no TV movies made after 2004 were included in new editions. Maltin used a different system for rating TV movies: \"Below average\", \"Average\" or \"Above average\", with select variants for highly rated films, including \"Way above average\" for \"The Day After\" and \"Special Bulletin\", and \"Outstanding\" for \"Minstrel Man\". Certain theatrically-released films (usually low budget, obscure, foreign, concert, or serial films), as well as the majority of films based on Edgar Wallace novels, were also removed from the guide over time to allow the inclusion of new titles.\n\nAnother notable feature of the Guide was that each review included a reference to the source material for the film if it was based on previously published material. Films were listed alphabetically letter-by-letter, ignoring punctuation and spaces. Articles were also ignored and transposed to the end of the title.\n\nThe Guide was notable for containing what the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" calls the world's shortest movie review. His 2 out of 4 star review of the 1948 musical \"Isn't It Romantic?\" consisted of the word \"No\". Another very short review concerned the film \"\" where Maltin wrote, \"It is what it is.\" Yet another was of \"Are Husbands Necessary?\" in which he wrote \"And what about this film?\", and one more right behind these is \"\" where, in comparing it to the previous installments, he commented, \"More of the same, only worse.\"\n\nAlong with typically listed worst pictures of all time, the hundreds of films Maltin designated as a \"BOMB\" in his guide also included \"3000 Miles to Graceland\", \"88 Minutes\", \"College\", \"\", \"American Gigolo\", the Woody Allen-directed \"Anything Else\", \"The Benchwarmers\", \"Bobby Deerfield\", \"The Bonfire of the Vanities\", \"Captain Ron\", \"Celtic Pride\", \"The Dukes of Hazzard\", \"Endless Love\", \"Every Which Way but Loose\", \"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas\", \"Four Rooms\", 2010's \"Gulliver's Travels\", \"Mame\", \"The Missouri Breaks\", \"Popeye\", \"Prêt-à-Porter\", 1998's remake of \"Psycho\", 2007's remake of \"Sleuth\", \"Valley of the Dolls\" and \"Your Highness\".\n\nHigh-school senior Leonard Maltin was a film fan and publisher of \"Fanzine Monthly\". In spring 1968 a teacher introduced him to an editor at Signet Books, which wanted a competitor to Steven H. Scheuer's \"Movies on TV\"; impressed by Maltin's ideas for the book the editor hired him immediately, without telling others that he had hired a 17-year-old. The first edition of Maltin's book appeared in 1969; a second edition appeared five years later. After a third in 1978, new editions appeared every two years, and after 1986 every year. In 2005, logistical problems of a single book prompted him to launch a companion volume, \"Leonard Maltin's Classic Movie Guide\", restricted to films from 1960 and earlier, several of which no longer appear in the annual publication (some had been deleted over the years to make room for newer films, others removed at this point because the additional venue allowed it) and many others that never had. The latter category includes the \"complete\" (according to Maltin's introduction) Saturday matinee cowboy programmers of John Wayne, William \"Hopalong Cassidy\" Boyd, Gene Autry and Roy Rogers.\n\nThe second edition of the \"Classic Movie Guide\", published in 2010, moved the cut-off date to 1965. Besides Scheuer's \"Movies on TV\", similar books include \"Halliwell's Film Guide\", by Leslie Halliwell, and \"The Good Film and Video Guide\", by David Shipman. Scheuer's guide was the first published, in 1958, preceding Maltin's by ten years, and the two were competing titles until the early 1990s. Scheuer's books had a similar format to Maltin's, except with more listings for made-for-television productions.\n\nMaltin announced in August 2014 that the 2015 edition, to be published in September 2014, would be the last: \"An entire generation has been raised to acquire all their information online from their mobile devices or computers. These are not the likely customers for a physical paperback reference book. Our sales have sharply declined in recent years.\"\n\nThe mobile application version of the guide was released, in 2009, to the App Store. However, the app was taken down in 2014 due to Penguin Group being unable to come to an agreement with Mobile Age, the creator of the app.\n"}
{"id": "176271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176271", "title": "Microsoft Outlook", "text": "Microsoft Outlook\n\nMicrosoft Outlook is a personal information manager from Microsoft, available as a part of the Microsoft Office suite. Although often used mainly as an email application, it also includes a calendar, task manager, contact manager, note taking, journal, and web browsing.\n\nIt can be used as a stand-alone application, or can work with Microsoft Exchange Server and Microsoft SharePoint Server for multiple users in an organization, such as shared mailboxes and calendars, Exchange public folders, SharePoint lists, and meeting schedules. Microsoft has also released mobile applications for most mobile platforms, including iOS and Android. Developers can also create their own custom software that works with Outlook and Office components using Microsoft Visual Studio. In addition, Windows Phone devices can synchronize almost all Outlook data to Outlook Mobile.\n\nMicrosoft Outlook has replaced Microsoft's previous scheduling and mail programs, Schedule+ and Exchange Client.\n\nVersions of Microsoft Outlook include:\n\nOutlook 98 and Outlook 2000 offer two configurations:\n\n\nOutlook 2002 introduced the following new features:\n\nOutlook 2003 introduced the following new features:\n\nFeatures that debuted in Outlook 2007 include:\n\nFeatures that debuted in Outlook 2010 include:\n\nFeatures that debuted in Outlook 2013, which was released on January 29, 2013, include:\n\nFeatures that debuted in Outlook 2016, include:\n\nMicrosoft also released several versions of Outlook for classic Mac OS, though it was only for use with Exchange servers. It was not provided as a component of Microsoft Office for Mac, but instead made available to users from administrators or by download. The final version was Outlook for Mac 2001, which was fairly similar to Outlook 2000 and 2002 apart from being exclusively for Exchange users.\n\nMicrosoft Entourage was introduced as an Outlook-like application for Mac OS in Office 2001, but it lacked Exchange connectivity. Partial support for Exchange server became available natively in Mac OS X with Entourage 2004 Service Pack 2. Entourage is not directly equivalent to Outlook in terms of design or operation; rather, it is a distinct application which has several overlapping features including Exchange client capabilities. Somewhat improved Exchange support was added in Entourage 2008 Web Services Edition.\nEntourage was replaced by Outlook for Mac 2011, which features greater compatibility and parity with Outlook for Windows than Entourage offered. It is the first native version of Outlook for macOS.\n\nOutlook 2011 initially supported Mac OS X's Sync Services only for contacts, not events, tasks or notes. It also does not have a Project Manager equivalent to that in Entourage. With Service Pack 1 (v 14.1.0), published on April 12, 2011, Outlook can now sync calendar, notes and tasks with Exchange 2007 and Exchange 2010.\n\nOn October 31, 2014, Microsoft released Outlook for Mac (v15.3 build 141024) with Office 365 (a software as a service licensing program that makes Office programs available as soon as they are developed). Outlook for Mac 15.3 improves upon its predecessors with:\n\nIn January 2015, Microsoft released Outlook for phones and for tablets (v1.3 build) with Office 365.\nThis was the first Outlook for these platforms with email, calendar, and contacts.\n\nOutlook 2007 was the first Outlook to switch from Internet Explorer rendering engine to Microsoft Word 2007's. This means HTML and CSS items not handled by Word are no longer supported. On the other hand, HTML messages composed in Word look as they appeared to the author. This affects publishing newsletters and reports, because they frequently use intricate HTML and CSS to form their layout. For example, forms can no longer be embedded in email.\n\nOutlook for Windows has very limited CSS support compared to various other e-mail clients. Neither CSS1 (1996) nor CSS2 (1998) specifications are fully implemented and many CSS properties can only to be used with certain HTML elements for the desired effect. Some HTML attributes help achieve proper rendering of e-mails in Outlook, but most of these attributes are already deprecated in the HTML 4.0 specifications (1997). In order to achieve the best compatibility with Outlook, most HTML e-mails are created using multiple boxed tables, as the table element and its sub-elements support the width and height property in Outlook. No improvements have been made towards a more standards-compliant email client since the release of Outlook 2007.\n\nOutlook and Exchange Server internally handle messages, appointments and items as objects in a data model which is derived from the old proprietary Microsoft Mail system, the Rich Text Format from Microsoft Word and the complex OLE general data model. When these programs interface with other protocols such as the various Internet and X.400 protocols, they try to map this internal model onto those protocols in a way that can be reversed if the ultimate recipient is also running Outlook or Exchange.\n\nThis focus on the possibility that emails and other items will ultimately be converted back to Microsoft Mail format is so extreme that if Outlook/Exchange cannot figure out a way to encode the complete data in the standard format, it simply encodes the entire message/item in a proprietary binary format called Transport Neutral Encapsulation Format (TNEF) and sends this as an attached file (usually named \"winmail.dat\") to an otherwise incomplete rendering of the mail/item. If the recipient is Outlook/Exchange it can simply discard the incomplete outer message and use the encapsulated data directly, but if the recipient is any other program, the message received will be incomplete because the data in the TNEF attachment will be of little use without the Microsoft software for which it was created. As a workaround, numerous tools for (partially) decoding TNEF files exist.\n\nOutlook does not fully support data and syncing specifications for calendaring and contacts, such as iCalendar, CalDAV, SyncML, and vCard 3.0. Outlook 2007 claims to be fully iCalendar compliant; however, it does not support all core objects, such as VTODO or VJOURNAL. Also, Outlook supports vCard 2.1 and does not support multiple contacts in the vCard format as a single file. Outlook has also been criticized for having proprietary \"Outlook extensions\" to these Internet standards.\n\nAs part of its Trustworthy Computing initiative, Microsoft took corrective steps to fix Outlook's reputation in Office Outlook 2003. Among the most publicized security features are that Office Outlook 2003 does not automatically load images in HTML emails or permit opening executable attachments by default, and includes a built-in Junk Mail filter. Service Pack 2 has augmented these features and adds an anti-phishing filter.\n\nOutlook add-ins are small helping programs for the Microsoft Outlook application. The main purpose of the add-ins is to add new functional capabilities into Microsoft Outlook and automate some routine operations. The term also refers to programs where the main function is to work on Outlook files, such as synchronization or backup utilities. Outlook add-ins may be developed in Microsoft Visual Studio or third-party tools such as Add-in Express. Outlook add-ins are not supported in Outlook Web App.\n\nFrom Outlook 97 on, Exchange Client Extensions are supported in Outlook. Outlook 2000 and later support specific COM components called Outlook AddIns. The exact supported features (such as .NET components) for later generations were extended with each release.\n\nIn March 2016, Salesforce announced that its relationship intelligence platform, SalesforceIQ, would be able to seamlessly integrate with Outlook. SalesforceIQ works from inside the Outlook inbox providing data from CRM, email and customer social profiles. It also provides recommendations within the inbox on various aspects like meeting scheduling, contacts, responses etc.\n\n\"Microsoft Outlook Hotmail Connector\" (formerly \"Microsoft Office Outlook Connector\"), is a discontinued and defunct free add-in for Microsoft Outlook 2003, 2007 and 2010, intended to integrate Outlook.com (formerly Hotmail) into Microsoft Outlook. It uses DeltaSync, a proprietary Microsoft communications protocol that Hotmail formerly used.\n\nIn version 12, access to tasks and notes and online synchronization with MSN Calendar is only available to MSN subscribers of paid premium accounts. Version 12.1, released in December 2008 as an optional upgrade, uses Windows Live Calendar instead of the former MSN Calendar. This meant that calendar features became free for all users, except for tasks synchronization which became unavailable. In April 2008, version 12.1 became a required upgrade to continue using the service as part of a migration from MSN Calendar to Windows Live Calendar.\n\nMicrosoft Outlook 2013 and later have intrinsic support for accessing Outlook.com and its calendar over the Exchange ActiveSync (EAS) protocol, while older versions of Microsoft Outlook can read and synchronize Outlook.com emails over the IMAP protocol.\n\n\"Outlook Social Connector\" was a free add-in for Microsoft Outlook 2003 and 2007 by Microsoft that allowed integration of social networks such as Facebook, Linkedin and Windows Live Messenger into Microsoft Outlook. It was first introduced in November 18, 2009. Starting with Microsoft Office 2010, Outlook Social Connector is an integral part of Outlook.\n\nSince Microsoft Outlook does not support CalDAV and CardDAV protocol along the way, various 3rd-party software vendors developed Outlook add-ins to enable users synchronizing with CalDAV and CardDAV servers. CalConnect has a list of software that enable users to synchronize their calendars with CalDAV servers/contacts with CardDAV servers.\n\nTraditionally, Outlook supported importing messages from Outlook Express and Lotus Notes. In addition, Microsoft Outlook supports POP3 and IMAP protocols, enabling users to import mails from servers that support these protocols, such as Gmail or Rackspace Email. Microsoft Hotmail Connector add-in (described above) helps importing email from Hotmail accounts. Outlook 2013 later integrated the functionality of this add-in and added the ability to import email (as well as calendar) through Exchange ActiveSync protocol.\n\nThere are some ways to get the emails from Thunderbird; the first is to use a tool that can convert a Thunderbird folder to a format that can be imported from Outlook Express. This method must be processed folder by folder. The other method is to use a couple of free tools that keep the original folder structure. If Exchange is available, an easier method is to connect the old mail client (Thunderbird) to Exchange using IMAP, and upload the original mail from the client to the Exchange account.\n\n\n51. How to add and change signature in Outlook\n\n"}
{"id": "1304170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1304170", "title": "Museum station (Toronto)", "text": "Museum station (Toronto)\n\nMuseum is a subway station on Line 1 Yonge–University in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It opened in 1963 and is located under Queen's Park at Charles Street West, beside the Royal Ontario Museum after which it is named. Wi-Fi service is available at this station.\n\nThe station structure was created in the middle of the road using cut and cover, while immediately south of the station the line goes into a bored tunnel to run under Queen’s Park, passing east of the Ontario Legislative Building to reach Queen's Park station. The concourse is located under the roadway, one level above the north end of a centre platform, with entrances from either side of the road. There are two stairways on the west side adjacent to the southern end of the Royal Ontario Museum and two on the east, just south of Charles Street. Pedestrians are encouraged to use the station as a pedestrian underpass to cross Queen's Park, a wide and busy thoroughfare without a centre median. This station does not have an elevator and is not wheelchair accessible.\n\nWhen plans for the adjacent and now closed McLaughlin Planetarium were drawn up in the mid-1960s, a tunnel that would lead directly to the Planetarium was contemplated, but this plan was scrapped as being too expensive.\n\nThe station is rated as high priority in the requirement for a second exit, and in 2005, plans were made to include additional exits at the south end of the platform at Queen's Park Crescent where the \"prison\" bars are. , construction has not been scheduled.\n and stations each have four parallel tracks, two above two. Between these stations and Museum is a full double-track, grade-separated wye junction. The tracks to/from Museum connect to the upper St. George and Lower Bay stations, while the tracks along Bloor use lower St. George and upper Bay.\n\nThe decision by Metro Council in 1960 to build a wye from the University line to the eastbound Bloor line between Museum and Bay stations was a controversial one. TTC Chairman Clarence Downey opposed the construction, estimated to cost about $10 million, saying that $10 million would build an extra mile of subway on the Bloor–Danforth line. The construction was estimated to cost $3 million for the basic interchange, and $7 million for the “intricate trackage system”.\n\nFrom February to September 1966, all three sides of the wye were used in regular service: from each of three terminals—, , and —trains ran alternately to the other two (between Eglinton and Museum via ). Thereafter, Line 2 Bloor–Danforth became a separate route, Lower Bay was closed, and upper St. George became a terminus for the Yonge–University line until it was extended to in 1978. The tunnel to Lower Bay is visible from northbound trains shortly after they leave Museum Station.\n\nThe station opened with the same tile scheme which would become standard on Line 2 Bloor–Danforth, whose first phase was completed three years later in 1966. Smooth, unadorned cream-coloured rectangular tiles were predominant, with a strip of narrower blue tiles near the ceiling. The unique TTC font was used for the station name, sandblasted to the wall and painted in the same shade of blue as the narrower strip of tiles.\n\nDesigned by Diamond and Schmitt Architects and constructed by Jeviso Construction Corporation, renovations to the station's platform level were completed in April 2008 to evoke exhibits in the Royal Ontario Museum. Supporting columns have been remade to resemble the ancient Egyptian deity Osiris, as well as Toltec warriors, Doric columns found in the Parthenon, China's Forbidden City columns, and First Nations house posts. This renovation purged Museum Station's original tile scheme from the platform level. Walls were reclad with mauve aluminum plate panels by Ontario Panelization of London, Ontario. They incorporated painted 1/4\" fire-rated Lexan into the panels composing the large \"MUSEUM\" lettering on the walls with a historical hieroglyphic inscription from the ROM. \nIn addition to its proximity to the Royal Ontario Museum, other landmarks nearby include the Gardiner Museum of Ceramic Art, The Royal Conservatory of Music, the defunct McLaughlin Planetarium, and the northeast corner of the University of Toronto (which includes Trinity College, Victoria University, St. Michael's College, the Faculty of Law, and the Faculty of Music).\n\nA transfer is required to connect between the subway system and these surface routes:\n\nTTC routes serving the station include:\n"}
{"id": "5016590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5016590", "title": "National Museum of Korea", "text": "National Museum of Korea\n\nThe National Museum of Korea is the flagship museum of Korean history and art in South Korea and is the cultural organization that represents Korea. Since its establishment in 1945, the museum has been committed to various studies and research activities in the fields of archaeology, history, and art, continuously developing a variety of exhibitions and education programs.\n\nIn 2012, it was reported that since its relocation to Yongsan District in 2005, the museum had attracted an attendance of 20 million visitors, or over 3 million annually which makes it one of the most visited museums in the world and Asia and the most visited in South Korea. A poll of nearly 2,000 foreign visitors, conducted by the Seoul Metropolitan Government in November 2011, stated that visiting the museum is one of their favorite activities in Seoul. It is one of the largest museums in Asia.\n\nEmperor Sunjong established Korea's first museum, the Imperial Household Museum, in 1909. The collections of the Imperial Household Museum at Changgyeonggung and the Japanese Government General Museum administered during Japanese rule of Korea became the nucleus of the National Museum's collection, which was established when South Korea regained independence in 1945.\n\nDuring the Korean War, the museum's 20,000 pieces were safely moved to Busan to avoid destruction. When the museum returned to Seoul after the war, it was housed at both Gyeongbokgung and Deoksugung Palace. In 1972, the museum moved again to a new building on the grounds of the Gyeonbokgung Palace. The museum was moved again in 1986 to the Jungangcheong, the former Japanese General Government Building, where it was housed (with some controversy and criticism) until the building's demolition in 1995. In December 1996, the museum was opened to the public in temporary accommodations in the renovated Social Education Hall, before officially reopening in its grand new building in Yongsan Family Park on October 28, 2005.\n\nIn October 2005, the museum opened in a new building in Yongsan Family Park in Seoul, South Korea. The museum is situated on what used to be a golf course that was part of the Yongsan Garrison, the central command of the United States Forces stationed in Korea. The US Army returned a part of the land in 1992 to the Korean government, which went on to become the Yongsan Family Park. While the plans for the museum inside the park began in 1993, its opening was delayed repeatedly by a helipad, which was eventually relocated in 2005 by agreement. The museum contains over 310,000 pieces in its collection with about 15,000 pieces on display at one time. It displays relics and artifacts throughout six permanent exhibition galleries such as Prehistory and Ancient History Gallery, Medieval and Early Modern History Gallery, Donation Gallery, Calligraphy and Painting Gallery, Asian Art Gallery, and Sculpture and Crafts Gallery. It is the sixth largest museum in the world in terms of floor space, now covering a total of .\nIn order to protect the artifacts inside the museum, the main building was built to withstand a magnitude 6.0 Richter Scale earthquake. The display cases are equipped with shock-absorbent platforms. There is also an imported natural lighting system which utilizes sunlight instead of artificial lights and a specially designed air-conditioning system. The museum is made from fire-resistant materials and has special exhibition halls, education facilities, a children's museum, huge outdoor exhibition areas, restaurants, cafes, and shops.\n\nThe museum is divided into three floors. Symbolically, the left of the museum is supposed to represent the past, while the right side of the museum represents the future. The ground floor contains parks; gardens of indigenous plants; waterfalls and pools; and a collection of pagodas, stupas, lanterns, and steles (including National Treasure of Korea No. 2, the Great Bell of Bosingak, the exemplar of Korean bells of the Joseon period).\n\nOn the first floor is the Prehistory and Ancient History Gallery, which contains approximately 4,500 artifacts from the Paleolithic to the Unified Silla era excavated from sites across Korea. The nine exhibition rooms in the gallery are the Palaeolithic Room, the Neolithic Room, the Bronze Age & Gojoseon Room, the Proto Three Kingdoms Room, the Goguryeo Room, the Baekje Room, the Gaya Room, and the Silla Room. Ranging from chipped stone handaxes to luxurious ancient royal ornaments, the relics displayed here show the long journey taken by early settlers on the Peninsula towards developing their unique culture.\n\nArtifacts from important prehistoric sites and settlements such the Bangudae Petroglyphs and Songgung-ni are found in the Neolithic and Bronze Age Rooms.\n\nAlso on the first floor is the Medieval and Early Modern History Gallery, which showcases the cultural and historical heritage throughout the Unified Silla, Balhae, Goryeo, and Joseon periods. The eight rooms of the gallery include the Unified Silla Room, Balhae Room, Goryeo Room, and the Joseon Room.\n\nThe second floor contains the Donation Gallery and the Calligraphy and Painting Gallery, which contains 890 pieces of art that showcase the traditional and religious arts of Korea in line and color. The Calligraphy and Painting Gallery is divided into four rooms: the Painting Room, the Calligraphy Room, the Buddhist Paintings Room, and the Sarangbang (Scholar's Studio).\n\nThe Donation Gallery holds 800 pieces of art donated from the private collections of collectors. The gallery is divided into eleven rooms: the Lee Hong-kun Collection Room, the Kim Chong-hak Collection Room, the Yu Kang-yul Collection Room, the Park Young-sook Collection Room, the Choi Young-do Collection Room, the Park Byong-rae Collection Room, the Yoo Chang-jong Collection Room, the Kaneko Kazushige Collection Room, the Hachiuma Tadasu Collection Room, the Iuchi Isao Collection Room, and the Other Collection Room.\n\nThe third floor contains the Sculpture and Crafts Gallery, with 630 pieces that represent Korean Buddhist sculpture and craftwork. Highlights of the gallery include Goryeo Celadon wares and National Treasure of Korea No. 83, Bangasayusang (or Pensive Bodhisattva). The five rooms of the gallery are the Metal Arts Room, the Celadon Room, the Buncheong Ware Room, the White Porcelain Room, and the Buddhist Sculpture Room.\n\nAlso on the third floor is the Asian Arts Gallery, which contains 970 pieces that explore the similarities and divergences of Asian art and the confluence of Asian and Western art via the Silk Road. The five rooms are the Indian & Southeast Asian Art Room, the Central Asian Art Room, the Chinese Art Room, the Sinan Undersea Relics Room, and the Japanese Art Room.\n\nThe Fifth-century Silla gold crown was excavated from the North tomb of Hwangnamdaechong in Gyeongju. More ornaments, including a silver belt ornament inscribed (보인대)'Buindae (\"Madame's belt\"), were found in the North tomb than in the South tomb, suggesting that the North tomb is a woman's. The gold crown reflects the owner's political and social class.\n\nThis Bodhisattva, from the early Seventh-century, sits with one leg over the other, lost in thought with fingers on its cheeks. The pose is derived from that of the Buddha contemplating the life of human beings. This statue wears a flat crown called the 'Three Mountain Crown' or 'Lotus Crown.' The torso is naked, adorned by a simple necklace. There are remarkable similarities with the wooden Pensive Bodhisattva at the Koryuji Temple in Kyoto, Japan, which is believed to have been founded by a Silla monk. It is likely, then, that this statue was created in Silla. The well-balanced shape, however, and elegant and refined craftsmanship is typical of the Baekje period.\n\nThis Twelfth-century incense burner represents some of the best quality Goryeo celadon. It is composed of a cover (with a central hole for releasing incense), a burner, and a support. Above the hole for incense is a curved knob with a Seven Treasure design incised to aid the release of scent.\n\nThe \"Gyeongcheonsa Ten-Story Pagoda\" (경천사 십층석탑, 敬天寺十層石塔) was originally erected at the monastery Gyeongcheonsa in the fourth year (1348) of King Chungmok of Goryeo. In 1907, it was illegally smuggled to Japan by a Japanese court official, but was returned in 1918 at the behest of British and American journalists, E. Bethell and H. Hulbert. In 1960, it was restored to Gyoengbokgung Palace, but proved difficult to conserve because of acid rain and weathering. So, it was dismantled again in 1995, to be housed inside in the National Museum of Korea's 'Path to History' when the museum reopened in 2005.\n\nThe Eighteenth-century painter Kim Hong-do, also known as Danwon, is known for his humorous and candid paintings of the lives of common people. This album consists of twenty-five paintings, each focusing on figures without background features. Kim's paintings appear sketchy, yet show expressive brush strokes and balanced composition. It is presumed that this style arose in Kim's late 30s, the album being completed when he was about 40 years old.\nGyujanggak was a royal library established on the grounds of Changdeokgung Palace in the capital by order of King Jeongjo, the 22nd ruler of the Joseon, in 1776. Over time, the library also developed into a state-sponsored research institution. In 1782, a royal library annex called Oegyujanggak was established on Gangwha Island to preserve important documents related to the royal family more systematically and securely than possible in the capital. Oegyujanggak housed copies of writings, calligraphy, and drawings by former kings as well as the royal genealogies, uigwe, and other such items. As such it was a repository of royal family culture. It includes records of the preparations for state-sponsored events and ceremonies involving key members of the Joseon royal family. The text explains every process in detail and is supported by illustrations elaborately drawn by hand. These served as references for later generations organizing similar ceremonies or events. The Uigwe began to be produced in the 15th century, during early Joseon, and the practice continued to the end of the kingdom in the early 20th century. They preserve core elements of Confucian culture, which revered ritual and propriety. These works also show the governing philosophy and systems by which the Joseon state was run. Their historical and cultural value has been recognized globally, as the “Royal Protocols of Joseon Dynasty”* were inscribed into the UNESCO Memory of the World Register in 2007.\n\nTwo hundred and ninety-seven volumes of the Protocols that were looted in 1866 during the French campaign against Korea were kept at the Bibliothèque nationale de France. They were repatriated in April and June 2011 in four separate installments. A special exhibition, \"The Return of the Oegyujanggak Uigwe from France: Records of the State Rites of the Joseon Dynasty\", was held from 19 July to 18 September 2011. In June 2011, before of the exhibition, the museum showcased five copies of the records to the media, along with the silk covers of other volumes.\n"}
{"id": "2956374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2956374", "title": "Navigational Aids for the History of Science, Technology, and the Environment Project", "text": "Navigational Aids for the History of Science, Technology, and the Environment Project\n\nThe Navigational Aids for the History of Science, Technology, and the Environment Project (NAHSTE) was a research archives/manuscripts cataloguing project based at the University of Edinburgh. Following a proposal led by Arnott Wilson in 1999, the project received £261,755 funding from the Research Support Libraries Programme (RSLP) from 2000 until 2002.\n\nThe project was designed to access a variety of outstanding collections of archives and manuscripts held at the three partner Higher Education Institutions (HEIs); the University of Edinburgh, University of Glasgow and Heriot-Watt University and to make them accessible on the Internet. The project additionally included linkages to related records held by non-HEI collaborators.\n\nDescriptions of the material conform to ISAD(G) (Second edition), whilst information about key individuals conform to ISAAR(CPF). Catalogues were tagged using the Encoded Archival Description XML standard.\n\nAlthough the project was completed in 2002, the resulting web service continues to be hosted at Edinburgh.\n\n"}
{"id": "55799003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55799003", "title": "Parcel2Go", "text": "Parcel2Go\n\nParcel2Go is a British parcel delivery comparison website offering customers the ability to compare both domestic and worldwide postage options from a range of providers. The company was founded by father and son Fil and Richard Adams-Mercer together with colleague Steven Kramer. In September 2017 the Parcel2Go merged with National Pallets.\n"}
{"id": "11323287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11323287", "title": "Piers Anthony bibliography", "text": "Piers Anthony bibliography\n\nThis is a partial list of works by Piers Anthony. Anthony has published 166 works in total from 1956 to December 2013.\n\nThe series is continued by Charles Platt with Anthony's permission\n\nBooks 1-3 were omnibused as \"Battle Circle\" (1978)\n\nBooks 1-3 were omnibused as \"Of Man and Manta\" (1986)\n\n\nAnthony's most extensive series, with 41 novels and growing.\nBooks 1-3 were omnibussed as \"The Magic of Xanth\" (1981) // \"Three Complete Xanth Novels\" / \"The Quest for Magic\"\nBooks 4-6 were omnibussed as \"The Continuing Xanth Saga\"\n\n\nThis was originally written as single novel in continuity with the \"Cluster\" series, which takes place decades later, but was split up due to length at the behest of the publisher, Jove.\n\nBooks 1-3 were omnibussed as \"Double Exposure\" (1982)\n\nBook 1-2 were omnibussed as \"Incarnations of Immortality\" (2013)\n\nBooks 1-3 were omnibussed as \"Across the Frames\" (1992), and as \"Three Complete Novels\" (1994)\nBooks 4-5 were omnibussed as \"Final Magic\" (1992)\n\nBooks 1-2 were omnibussed as \"The Pornucopia Compendium\" (2015)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "321978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=321978", "title": "Puranas", "text": "Puranas\n\nThe word Puranas (; , \"\") literally means \"ancient, old\", and it is a vast genre of Indian literature about a wide range of topics, particularly myths, legends and other traditional lore. Composed primarily in Sanskrit, but also in regional languages, several of these texts are named after major Hindu deities such as Vishnu, Shiva and Devi. The Puranas genre of literature is found in both Hinduism and Jainism.\n\nThe Puranic literature is encyclopedic, and it includes diverse topics such as cosmogony, cosmology, genealogies of gods, goddesses, kings, heroes, sages, and demigods, folk tales, pilgrimages, temples, medicine, astronomy, grammar, mineralogy, humor, love stories, as well as theology and philosophy. The content is highly inconsistent across the Puranas, and each Purana has survived in numerous manuscripts which are themselves inconsistent. The Hindu Puranas are anonymous texts and likely the work of many authors over the centuries; in contrast, most Jaina Puranas can be dated and their authors assigned.\n\nThere are 18 \"Maha Puranas\" (Great Puranas) and 18 \"Upa Puranas\" (Minor Puranas), with over 400,000 verses. The first versions of the various Puranas were likely composed between the 3rd- and 10th-century CE. The Puranas do not enjoy the authority of a scripture in Hinduism, but are considered a Smriti.\n\nThey have been influential in the Hindu culture, inspiring major national and regional annual festivals of Hinduism. Their role and value as sectarian religious texts and historical texts has been controversial because all Puranas praise many gods and goddesses and \"their sectarianism is far less clear cut\" than assumed, states Ludo Rocher. The religious practices included in them are considered \"Vaidika\" (congruent with Vedic literature), because they do not preach initiation into Tantra. The Bhagavata Purana has been among the most celebrated and popular text in the Puranic genre, and is of non-dualistic tenor. The Puranic literature wove with the Bhakti movement in India, and both Dvaita and Advaita scholars have commented on the underlying Vedantic themes in the \"Maha Puranas\".\n\nDouglas Harper states that the etymological origins of \"Puranas\" are from Sanskrit \"Puranah\", literally \"ancient, former,\" from \"pura\" \"formerly, before,\" cognate with Greek \"paros\" \"before,\" \"pro\" \"before,\" Avestan \"paro\" \"before,\" Old English fore, from proto-Indo-European \"*pre-\", from root \"*per-\".\"\n\nVyasa, the narrator of the Mahabharata, is hagiographically credited as the compiler of the Puranas. The ancient tradition suggests that originally there was but one Purana. Vishnu Purana (3.6.15) mentions that Vyasa entrusted his \"Puranasamhita\" to his disciple \"Lomaharshana\", who in turn imparted it to his disciples, three of whom compiled their own samhitas. These three, together with Lomaharshana's, comprise the \"Mulasamhita\", from which the later eighteen Puranas were derived.\n\nThe term \"Purana\" appears in the Vedic texts. For example, Atharva Veda mentions \"Purana\" (in the singular) in XI.7.24 and XV.6.10-11 :\n\nSimilarly, the Shatapatha Brahmana (XI.5.6.8) mentions \"Itihasapuranam\" (as one compound word) and recommends that on the 9th day of \"Pariplava,\" the \"hotr\" priest should narrate some Purana because \"the \"Purana\" is the Veda, this it is\" (XIII.4.3.13). However, states P.V. Kane, it is not certain whether these texts suggested several works or single work with the term \"Purana\". The late Vedic text \"Taittiriya Aranyaka\" (II.10) uses the term in the plural. Therefore, states Kane, that in the later Vedic period at least, the Puranas referred to three or more texts, and that they were studied and recited In numerous passages the Mahabharata mentions \"'Purana\"' in both singular and plural forms. Moreover, it is not unlikely that, where the singular '\"Puranam\"' was employed in the texts, a class of works was meant. Further, despite the mention of the term Purana or Puranas in the Vedic texts, there is uncertainty about the contents of them until the composition of the oldest Dharmashastra \"Apastamba Dharmasutra\" and \"Gautama Dharmasutra\", that mention Puranas resembling with the extant Puranas.\n\nAnother early mention of the term 'Itihas-purana' is found in the Chandogya Upanishad (7.1.2), translated by Patrick Olivelle as \"the corpus of histories and ancient tales as the fifth Veda\". The Brhadaranyaka Upanishad also refers to purana as the \"fifth Veda\",\n\nAccording to Thomas Coburn, Puranas and early extra-puranic texts attest to two traditions regarding their origin, one proclaiming a divine origin as the breath of the Great Being, the other as a human named Vyasa as the arranger of already existing material into eighteen Puranas. In the early references, states Coburn, the term Purana occurs in singular unlike the later era which refers to a plural form presumably because they had assumed their \"multifarious form\". While both these traditions disagree on the origins of the Puranas, they affirm that extant Puranas are not identical with the original Purana.\n\nAccording to the Indologists J. A. B. van Buitenen and Cornelia Dimmitt, the Puranas that have survived into the modern era are ancient but represent \"an amalgam of two somewhat different but never entirely different separate oral literatures: the Brahmin tradition stemming from the reciters of the Vedas, and the bardic poetry recited by Sutas that was handed down in Kshatriya circles\". The original Puranas comes from the priestly roots while the later genealogies have the warrior and epic roots. These texts were collected for the \"second time between the fourth and sixth centuries A.D. under the rule of the Gupta kings\", a period of Hindu renaissance. However, the editing and expansion of the Puranas did not stop after the Gupta era, and the texts continued to \"grow for another five hundred or a thousand years\" and these were preserved by priests who maintained Hindu pilgrimage sites and temples. The core of Itihasa-Puranas, states Klaus Klostermaier, may possibly go back to the seventh century BCE or even earlier.\n\nIt is not possible to set a specific date for any Purana as a whole, states Ludo Rocher. He points out that even\nfor the better established and more coherent puranas such as Bhagavata and Vishnu, the dates proposed by scholars continue to vary widely and endlessly. The date of the production of the written texts does not define the date of origin of the Puranas. They existed in an oral form before being written down. In the 19th century, F. E. Pargiter believed the \"original Purana\" may date to the time of the final redaction of the Vedas. Wendy Doniger, based on her study of indologists, assigns approximate dates to the various Puranas. She dates Markandeya Purana to c. 250 CE (with one portion dated to c. 550 CE), Matsya Purana to c. 250–500 CE, Vayu Purana to c. 350 CE, Harivamsa and Vishnu Purana to c. 450 CE, Brahmanda Purana to c. 350–950 CE, Vamana Purana to c. 450–900 CE, Kurma Purana to c. 550–850 CE, and Linga Purana to c. 600–1000 CE.\n\nOf the many texts designated 'Puranas' the most important are the \"s\" or the major Puranas. These are said to be eighteen in number, divided into three groups of six, though they are not always counted in the same way.\n\nThe Mahapuranas have also been classified based on a specific deity, although the texts are mixed and revere all gods and goddesses:\nThe Padma Purana, Uttara Khanda (236.18-21), classifies the Puranas in accordance with \"the three gunas or qualities\"; truth, passion, and ignorance.\n\nAll major Puranas contain sections on Devi (goddesses) and Tantra, but of these the six most significant ones are: Markandeya Purana, Shiva Purana, Linga Purana, Brahma Vaivarta Purana, Agni Purana and Padma Purana.\n\nThe difference between Upapuranas and Mahapuranas has been explained by Rajendra Hazra as, \"a Mahapurana is well known, and that what is less well known becomes an Upapurana\". Rocher states that the distinction between Mahapurana and Upapurana is ahistorical, there is little corroborating evidence that either were more or less known, and that \"the term Mahapurana occurs rarely in Purana literature, and is probably of late origin.\"\n\nThe \"Upapuranas\" are eighteen in number, with disagreement as to which canonical titles belong in that list of eighteen. They include among many: Sanat-kumara, Narasimha, Brihan-naradiya, Siva-rahasya, Durvasa, Kapila, Vamana, Bhargava, Varuna, Kalika, Samba, Nandi, Surya, Parasara, Vasishtha, Devi-Bhagavata, Ganesha, Mudgala, and Hamsa, with only a few having been critically edited.\n\nThe Ganesha and Mudgala Puranas are devoted to Ganesha. The Devi-Bhagavata Purana, which extols the goddess Durga, has become (along with the Devi Mahatmya of the Markandeya Purana) a basic text for Devi worshipers.\n\nThis corpus of texts tells of the origins and traditions of particular Tamil Shiva temples or shrines. There are numerous Sthala Puranas, most written in vernaculars, some with Sanskrit versions as well. The 275 Shiva Sthalams of the continent have puranas for each, famously glorified in the Tamil literature \"Tevaram.\" Some appear in Sanskrit versions in the Mahapuranas or Upapuranas. Some Tamil Sthala Puranas have been researched by David Dean Shulman.\n\nThe Skanda Purana is the largest Purana with 81,000 verses, named after deity Skanda, the son of Shiva and Uma, and brother of deity Ganesha. The mythological part of the text weaves the stories of Shiva and Vishnu, along with Parvati, Rama, Krishna and other major gods in Hindu pantheon. In Chapter 1.8, it declares,\n\nThe Skanda Purana has received renewed scholarly interest ever since the late 20th-century discovery of a Nepalese Skanda Purana manuscript dated to be from the early 9th century. This discovery established that Skanda Purana existed by the 9th century. However, a comparison shows that the 9th-century document is entirely different than versions of Skanda Purana that have been circulating in South Asia since the colonial era.\n\nSeveral Puranas, such as the Matysa Purana, list \"five characteristics\" or \"five signs\" of a Purana. These are called the \"Pancha Lakshana\" ( ), and are topics covered by a Purana:\n\nA few Puranas, such as the most popular Bhagavata Purana, add five more characteristics to expand this list to ten:\n\nThese five or ten sections weave in biographies, myths, geography, medicine, astronomy, Hindu temples, pilgrimage to distant real places, rites of passage, charity, ethics, duties, rights, dharma, divine intervention in cosmic and human affairs, love stories, festivals, theosophy and philosophy. The Puranas link gods to men, both generally and in religious bhakti context. Here the Puranic literature follows a general pattern. It starts with introduction, a future devotee is described as ignorant about the god yet curious, the devotee learns about the god and this begins the spiritual realization, the text then describes instances of god's grace which begins to persuade and convert the devotee, the devotee then shows devotion which is rewarded by the god, the reward is appreciated by the devotee and in return performs actions to express further devotion.\n\nThe Puranas, states Flood, document the rise of the theistic traditions such as those based on Vishnu, Shiva and the goddess Devi and include respective mythology, pilgrimage to holy places, rituals and genealogies. The bulk of these texts in Flood's view were established by 500 CE, in the Gupta era though amendments were made later. Along with inconsistencies, common ideas are found throughout the corpus but it is not possible to trace the lines of influence of one Purana upon another so the corpus is best viewed as a synchronous whole. An example of similar myths woven across the Puranas, but in different versions, include the \"lingabhava\" – the \"apparition of the linga\". The story features Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva, the three major deities of Hinduism, who get together, debate, and after various versions of the story, in the end the glory of Shiva is established by the apparition of linga. This myth, state Bonnefoy and Doniger, appears in Vayu Purana 1.55, Brahmanda Purana 1.26, Shiva Purana's Rudra Samhita Sristi Khanda 15, Skanda Purana's chapters 1.3, 1.16 and 3.1, and other Puranas.\n\nThe texts are in Sanskrit as well as regional languages, and almost entirely in narrative metric couplets.\n\nThe texts use ideas, concepts and even names that are symbolic. The words can interpreted literally, and at an axiological level. The Vishnu Purana, for example, recites a myth where the names of the characters are loaded with symbolism and axiological significance. The myth is as follows,\n\nThe relation of the Puranas with Vedas has been debated by scholars, some holding that there's no relationship, others contending that they are identical. The Puranic literature, stated Max Muller, is independent, has changed often over its history, and has little relation to the Vedic age or the Vedic literature. In contrast, Purana literature is evidently intended to serve as a complement to the Vedas, states Vans Kennedy. \n\nSome scholars such as Govinda Das suggest that the Puranas claim a link to the Vedas but in name only, not in substance. The link is purely a mechanical one. Scholars such as Viman Chandra Bhattacharya and PV Kane state that the Puranas are a continuation and development of the Vedas. Sudhakar Malaviya and VG Rahurkar state the connection is closer in that the Puranas are companion texts to help understand and interpret the Vedas. K.S. Ramaswami Sastri and Manilal N. Dvivedi reflect the third view which states that Puranas enable us to know the \"true import of the ethos, philosophy and religion of the Vedas\". \n\nBarbara Holdrege questions the fifth Veda status of \"Itihasas\" (the Hindu epics) and Puranas. The Puranas, states V.S. Agrawala, intend to \"explicate, interpret, adapt\" the metaphysical truths in the Vedas. In the general opinion, states Rocher, \"the Puranas cannot be divorced from the Vedas\" though scholars provide different interpretations of the link between the two. Scholars have given the \"Bhagavata Purana\" as an example of the links and continuity of the Vedic content such as providing an interpretation of the Gayatri mantra.\n\nThe Puranas, states Kees Bolle, are best seen as \"vast, often encyclopedic\" works from ancient and medieval India. Some of them, such as the Agni Purana and Matsya Purana, cover all sorts of subjects, dealing with – states Rocher – \"anything and everything\", from fiction to facts, from practical recipes to abstract philosophy, from geographic \"Mahatmyas\" (travel guides) to cosmetics, from festivals to astronomy. Like encyclopedias, they were updated to remain current with their times, by a process called \"Upabrimhana\". However, some of the 36 major and minor Puranas are more focussed handbooks, such as the Skanda Purana, Padma Purana and Bhavishya Purana which deal primarily with \"Tirtha Mahatmyas\" (pilgrimage travel guides), while Vayu Purana and Brahmanda Purana focus more on history, mythology and legends.\n\nThe colonial era scholars of Puranas studied them primarily as religious texts, with Vans Kennedy declaring in 1837, that any other use of these documents would be disappointing. John Zephaniah Holwell, who from 1732 onwards spent 30 years in India and was elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1767, described the Puranas as \"18 books of divine words\". British officials and researchers such as Holwell, states Urs App, were orientalist scholars who introduced a distorted picture of Indian literature and Puranas as \"sacred scriptures of India\" in 1767. Holwell, states Urs App, \"presented it as the opinion of knowledgeable Indians; But it is abundantly clear that no knowledgeable Indian would ever have said anything remotely similar\".\n\nModern scholarship doubts this 19th-century premise. Ludo Rocher, for example, states,\n\nThe study of Puranas as a religious text remains a controversial subject. Some Indologists, in colonial tradition of scholarship, treat the Puranic texts as scriptures or useful source of religious contents. Other scholars, such as Ronald Inden, consider this approach \"essentialist and antihistorical\" because the Purana texts changed often over time and over distance, and the underlying presumption of they being religious texts is that those changes are \"Hinduism expressed by a religious leader or philosopher\", or \"expressiveness of Hindu mind\", or \"society at large\", when the texts and passages are literary works and \"individual geniuses of their authors\".\n\nThe Jaina Puranas are like Hindu Puranas encyclopedic epics in style, and are considered as \"anuyogas\" (expositions), but they are not considered Jain Agamas and do not have scripture or quasi-canonical status in Jainism tradition. They are best described, states John Cort, as post-scripture literary corpus based upon themes found in Jain scriptures.\n\nScholars have debated whether the Puranas should be categorized as sectarian, or non-partisan, or monotheistic religious texts. Different Puranas describe a number of stories where Brahma, VIshnu and Shiva compete for supremacy. In some Puranas, such as Devi Bhagavata, the Goddess Devi joins the competition and ascends for the position of being Supreme. Further, most Puranas emphasize legends around one who is either Shiva, or Vishnu, or Devi. The texts thus appear to be sectarian. However, states Edwin Bryant, while these legends sometimes appear to be partisan, they are merely acknowledging the obvious question of whether one or the other is more important, more powerful. In the final analysis, all Puranas weave their legends to celebrate pluralism, and accept the other two and all gods in Hindu pantheon as personalized form but equivalent essence of the Ultimate Reality called Brahman. The Puranas are not spiritually partisan, states Bryant, but \"accept and indeed extol the transcendent and absolute nature of the other, and of the Goddess Devi too\".\n\nLudo Rocher, in his review of Puranas as sectarian texts, states, \"even though the Puranas contain sectarian materials, their sectarianism should not be interpreted as exclusivism in favor of one god to the detriment of all others\".\n\nDespite the diversity and wealth of manuscripts from ancient and medieval India that have survived into the modern times, there is a paucity of historical data in them. Neither the author name nor the year of their composition were recorded or preserved, over the centuries, as the documents were copied from one generation to another. This paucity tempted 19th-century scholars to use the Puranas as a source of chronological and historical information about India or Hinduism. This effort was, after some effort, either summarily rejected by some scholars, or become controversial, because the Puranas include fables and fiction, and the information within and across the Puranas was found to be inconsistent.\n\nIn early 20th-century, some regional records were found to be more consistent, such as for the Hindu dynasties in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh. Basham, as well as Kosambi have questioned whether lack of inconsistency is sufficient proof of reliability and historicity. More recent scholarship has attempted to, with limited success, states Ludo Rocher, use the Puranas for historical information in combination with independent corroborating evidence, such as \"epigraphy, archaeology, Buddhist literature, Jaina literature, non-Puranic literature, Islamic records, and records preserved outside India by travelers to or from India in medieval times such as in China, Myanmar and Indonesia\".\n\nThe study of Puranas manuscripts has been challenging because they are highly inconsistent. This is true for all Mahapuranas and Upapuranas. Most editions of Puranas, in use particularly by Western scholars, are \"based on one manuscript or on a few manuscripts selected at random\", even though divergent manuscripts with the same title exist. Scholars have long acknowledged the existence of Purana manuscripts that \"seem to differ much from printed edition\", and it is unclear which one is accurate, and whether conclusions drawn from the randomly or cherrypicked printed version were universal over geography or time. This problem is most severe with Purana manuscripts of the same title, but in regional languages such as Tamil, Telugu, Bengali and others which have largely been ignored.\n\nNewly discovered Puranas manuscripts from the medieval centuries has attracted scholarly attention and the conclusion that the Puranic literature has gone through slow redaction and text corruption over time, as well as sudden deletion of numerous chapters and its replacement with new content to an extent that the currently circulating Puranas are entirely different than those that existed before 11th century, or 16th century.\n\nFor example, a newly discovered palm-leaf manuscript of Skanda Purana in Nepal has been dated to be from 810 CE, but is entirely different than versions of Skanda Purana that have been circulating in South Asia since the colonial era. Further discoveries of four more manuscripts, each different, suggest that document has gone through major redactions twice, first likely before the 12th century, and the second very large change sometime in the 15th-16th century for unknown reasons. The different versions of manuscripts of Skanda Purana suggest that \"minor\" redactions, interpolations and corruption of the ideas in the text over time.\n\nRocher states that the compositions date of each Purana remains a contested issue. Dimmitt and van Buitenen state that each of the Puranas manuscripts is encyclopedic in style, and it is difficult to ascertain when, where, why and by whom these were written:\n\nMany of the extant manuscripts were written on palm leaf or copied during the British India colonial era, some in the 19th century. The scholarship on various Puranas, has suffered from frequent forgeries, states Ludo Rocher, where liberties in the transmission of Puranas were normal and those who copied older manuscripts replaced words or added new content to fit the theory that the colonial scholars were keen on publishing.\n\nHorace Hayman Wilson published one of the earliest English translations of one version of the Vishnu Purana in 1840. The same manuscript, and Wilson's translation, was reinterpreted by Manmatha Nath Dutt, and published in 1896. The All India Kashiraj Trust has published editions of the Puranas.\n\nMaridas Poullé (Mariyadas Pillai) published a French translation from a Tamil version of the Bhagavata Purana in 1788, and this was widely distributed in Europe becoming an introduction to the 18th-century Hindu culture and Hinduism to many Europeans during the colonial era. Poullé republished a different translation of the same text as \"Le Bhagavata\" in 1795, from Pondicherry. A copy of Poullé translation is preserved in Bibliothèque nationale de France, Paris.\n\nThe most significant influence of the Puranas genre of Indian literature have been, state scholars and particularly Indian scholars, in \"culture synthesis\", in weaving and integrating the diverse beliefs from ritualistic rites of passage to Vedantic philosophy, from fictional legends to factual history, from individual introspective yoga to social celebratory festivals, from temples to pilgrimage, from one god to another, from goddesses to tantra, from the old to the new. These have been dynamic open texts, composed socially, over time. This, states Greg Bailey, may have allowed the Hindu culture to \"preserve the old while constantly coming to terms with the new\", and \"if they are anything, they are records of cultural adaptation and transformation\" over the last 2,000 years.\n\nThe Puranic literature, suggests Khanna, influenced \"acculturation and accommodation\" of a diversity of people, with different languages and from different economic classes, across different kingdoms and traditions, catalyzing the syncretic \"cultural mosaic of Hinduism\". They helped influence cultural pluralism in India, and are a literary record thereof.\n\nOm Prakash states the Puranas served as efficient medium for cultural exchange and popular education in ancient and medieval India. These texts adopted, explained and integrated regional deities such as Pashupata in Vayu Purana, Sattva in Vishnu Purana, Dattatreya in Markendeya Purana, Bhojakas in Bhavishya Purana. Further, states Prakash, they dedicated chapters to \"secular subjects such as poetics, dramaturgy, grammar, lexicography, astronomy, war, politics, architecture, geography and medicine as in Agni Purana, perfumery and lapidary arts in Garuda Purana, painting, sculpture and other arts in Vishnudharmottara Purana\".\n\nThe cultural influence of the Puranas extended to Indian classical arts, such as songs, dance culture such as Bharata Natyam in south India and Rasa Lila in northeast India, plays and recitations.\n\nThe myths, lunar calendar schedule, rituals and celebrations of major Hindu cultural festivities such as Holi, Diwali and Durga Puja are in the Puranic literature.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5952837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5952837", "title": "Qiyin lüe", "text": "Qiyin lüe\n\nThe Qiyin lüe () is a Chinese rime table, which dates to before 1161. This reference work survived to the present largely because the Song dynasty historian Zheng Qiao (/; \"Cheng Ch'iao\"; 1104–1162) included it in his 1161 encyclopedia \"Tongzhi\".\n\nThe Chinese linguist Luo Changpei wrote a definitive study (1935) of the \"Qiyin lüe\".\nThe structure and contents of the work is closely related to the \"Yunjing\", and the two are believed to derive from a common source prior to the Song dynasty.\nBoth have tables combining rows for a particular final rime, columns for various initials, and up to four tones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43447838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43447838", "title": "Quds in Persian literature", "text": "Quds in Persian literature\n\nQuds or Beitol moghadas () refer to the city of Jerusalem. This name is used many times in Persian poems, ancient literature of Persia, geographical books, travel literature, and Persian atlases and maps.\n\nThe following books are some examples of literature that use the name \"Quds\" to refer Jerusalem:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1068218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1068218", "title": "Strategy guide", "text": "Strategy guide\n\nStrategy guides are instruction books that contain hints or complete solutions to specific video games. The line between strategy guides and walkthroughs is somewhat blurred, with the former often containing or being written around the latter. Strategy guides are often published in print, both in book form and also as articles within video game magazines. In cases of exceptionally popular game titles, guides may be sold through more mainstream publication channels, such as bookstores or even newsstands. Some publishers also sell E-Book versions on their websites.\n\nStrategy guides marketed as \"official\" are written by game distributors themselves or licensed to a specialty publishing house; Prima Games (a division of Random House) and Piggyback Interactive (a division of Simon & Schuster) specialise in writing official guides for various companies. There are also a number of publishers who make unlicensed, \"unofficial\" strategy guides, and many of today's mainstream publishers began by making such guides.\n\nThe contents of a strategy guide varies between game genres. Typically, the guides contain:\n\nIn order to be released at the same time as the game, commercial strategy guides are often based on a pre-release version of the game, rather than the final retail version; BradyGames' guide for \"\", for instance, included some misplaced item locations and a slightly different map, which made some directions impossible to follow. BradyGames rectifies such mistakes by offering free errata pages for download from their website.\n\nStrategy guides are sometimes published before the game itself is published. This can be risky because there is always the chance that a game will end up not being released. In January 2001, Prima published a guide () for the Dreamcast version of \"Half-Life\", which was canceled late in development when Sega discontinued the console.\n\nOnline strategy guides and FAQs are hosted at sites such as GameFAQs and IGN FAQs, though much of this content is user generated and not published by the company. A number of other sites contain strategy guides, and videos in a number of niche areas, such as Role Playing Games or First Person Shooters. These sites may attract a more limited set of viewers, but can include more depth of content. Video-sharing sites such as YouTube have given rise to video walkthroughs using programs such as Fraps, which allows players to more easily mirror the strategies being described. These videos are re-posted to a number of sites.\n\nVideo game wikis are used as both strategy guides and documentation. Content is generated and edited completely by users. Wikis allow for information to updated if a developer introduced a new patch to the game. Wiki farms such as Fandom and Gamepedia host a large number of unofficial video game wikis while wikis can be integrated into the overall site such as IGN Wikis. While most wikis are considered unofficial and not supported by the developer, some developers may choose to do so for various reasons. These reasons may include resolving copyright issues and real world trading that may be found on unofficial wikis. For example, ArenaNet hosts an official wiki for \"Guild Wars\" and \"Guild Wars 2\", citing that \"it's often more complete and useful than the documentation that ArenaNet generates internally.\" Information on the wiki is integrated into the game, allowing players to access information from in game. Although the wiki is hosted by ArenaNet, the site is run and moderated by the community and contributions are released under GNU Free Document License (GDFL) similar to sites such as Wikipedia.\n\nAside from the quality of the content, the community aspect of fan walkthroughs is significant. One perspective argues that walkthroughs are shared stories for gamers and game fans. In creating walkthroughs, gamers actively create meaning for the games. This is similar to activities of traditional media such as books, films and television (e.g., Fan Fiction).\n\nThe increasing availability of free online FAQs and walkthroughs has taken away some of the demand for commercial strategy guides, although there is still a large market for them. Print guides often feature extensive picture-by-picture walkthroughs, maps, and game art, none of which is possible in the plain-text works hosted by prominent sites such as GameFAQs. Some newer sites allow strategy guides to be hosted in formats that allow pictures and videos, which further undercuts the advantages of print strategy guides.\n\nSome publishers have tried combining their printed books with the Internet. In 2000, the \"Final Fantasy IX Official Strategy Guide\" was published by BradyGames, but much of the information was contained on Square's PlayOnline website. This seemed like a good way to promote PlayOnline, while creating a guide that would have updatable content, but it was widely panned. Players saw no need of buying a book if a significant part of the content was online; and there was no point paying for online content from one site, if it was available for free on another site. As a result, Square abandoned the online strategy guide concept and released complete printed guides for future games.\n\nSome companies will, at times, make mistakes in the book about the game itself, such as stating that \"Character A\" has a relationship with \"Character B\", despite there being no relationship. In a strategy guide for \"Diddy Kong Racing\" they referred to characters with terms such as \"The Dinosaur\" and \"The Octopus\" instead of their names.\n\nGames journalist and guide writer Alan Emrich has severely criticized recent strategy guides for:\n\nThe faults, he says, are mainly caused by the game publishers' and guide publishers' haste to get their products on to the market; \"[previously] strategy guides were published after a game was released so that they could be accurate, even to the point of including information changes from late game 'patch' releases. The \"Master of Orion\" official strategy guide that Tom Hughes and I wrote is just that kind of book.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5890741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5890741", "title": "Sâr Dubnotal", "text": "Sâr Dubnotal\n\nSâr Dubnotal is a fictional character and pulp hero who starred in 20 pulp magazines published in France in 1909–1910.\n\nThe \"Sâr Dubnotal\" stories were published anonymously. Some scholars believe they were written by Norbert Sévestre, a prolific author of popular adventure series, many of which included similarly fantastic elements, although this has never been proven.\n\nThe Sâr Dubnotal is a sorcerer and a superhero not unlike Marvel Comics' Doctor Strange.\n\nHe is a learned Master of the Occult, nicknamed the \"Great Psychagogue\", the Napoléon of the Intangible, the Master of Psychognosis, the Conqueror of the Invisible, \"El Tebib\" (meaning Doctor in Arabic), or merely the Doctor.\n\nDespite his stylish oriental guise, Sâr Dubnotal is a westerner, schooled by the Rosicrucians, who has then learned the ancient secrets of the Hindu mystics. He is capable of telepathy, levitation and hypnotism. He was born in Mumbai. His exact age is unknown, but he is very likely much older than he seems. \n\nSâr Dubnotal owns houses in Trez-Hir in Brittany, on the Champs-Élysées in Paris and in Cheyne Walk in London. He also owns several yachts, including the \"Brahma\" and the \"Derviche\". He also owns an atoll called Redemption Island located along the Tropic of Cancer in the Pacific Ocean, where he sends villains to be reformed.\n\nTwo recurring enemies include rival evil hypnotist Tserpchikopf who turns out to be Jack the Ripper and Russian revolutionary Azef, based on a real-life figure.\n\nAll 20 magazines were published by Eichler, starting in January 1909 – at the same time in France and translated in Germany.\n\n\nEpisodes 1, 7, 9, 10 and 11 were published in English in a translation by Brian Stableford under the title \"Sâr Dubnotal vs. Jack the Ripper\" by Black Coat Press () in November 2009.\n\nSâr Dubnotal has appeared in several short stories published in the anthology \"Tales of the Shadowmen\", \"Doctor Omega and the Shadowmen\".\n\nSâr Dubnotal is mentioned in Volume 2 of \"The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22119317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22119317", "title": "The Outdoor Survival Handbook", "text": "The Outdoor Survival Handbook\n\nThe Outdoor Survival Handbook is a 1992 survival book by Ray Mears. First published as \"The Complete Outdoor Handbook\"; The book is divided into four sections, one for each season with chapters on clothing, survival skills and tools for each. Includes illustrations by Paul Bryant.\n"}
{"id": "12986866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12986866", "title": "The Oxford Companion to Chess", "text": "The Oxford Companion to Chess\n\nThe Oxford Companion to Chess is a reference book on the game of chess, written by David Hooper and Kenneth Whyld. The book is written in an encyclopedia format. The book belongs to the Oxford Companions series.\n\nThe first edition of the book was published in 1984 by Oxford University Press. The second edition (1992) has over 2,500 entries, including rules, terms, strategies, tactics, over 500 brief biographies of famous players, and entries on more than 700 named openings and opening variations. In the back of the book is a comprehensive index of opening variations and sub-variations, listing 1,327 named variations.\n\nThe book also discusses chess from other countries (such as shogi), chess variants (such as three dimensional chess), and some forms of fairy chess.\n\n"}
{"id": "51910807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51910807", "title": "United States v. Pohlot", "text": "United States v. Pohlot\n\nUnited States v. Pohlot, 827 F.2d 889 (3d Cir. 1987), is a criminal case that summarized diverse uses of the expression \"diminished capacity\".\n"}
{"id": "30679421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30679421", "title": "Water clock (Indianapolis)", "text": "Water clock (Indianapolis)\n\nThe Water Clock, also known as The Giant Water Clock, is in the permanent collection of The Children's Museum of Indianapolis located in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The modern water clock is located in the Sunburst Atrium of The Children's Museum, and is adjacent to the Grand Staircase leading up to the second floor. It was created by French scientist and artist Bernard Gitton in 1988, the same year that the museum acquired it.\n\nThe artistic timepiece is the largest water clock in North America.\n\nThe water clock, created by French chemist and artist Bernard Gitton, is approximately tall and made of more than 40 pieces of glass and 100 pieces of metal. The lights on the clock are bright green and the water is dyed blue. The clock is made of glass, steel, and of a solution of deionized water, methyl alcohol, and coloring dye.\n\nIt was assembled in France to ensure that it worked, then dissassembled and shipped to Indianapolis. It was assembled again in the Children's Museum over two weeks time.\n\nFunctionally, a Gitton water clock consists of four subsystems: An oscillator (the pendulum), a frequency divider, a minute counter (the minute discs), and an hour counter (the hour balls). Water from a pump in the basement, just below the clock, is pumped through a pipe running up the middle of the clock into a reservoir at the top. The water then drips down onto a scoop at the top which is connected to the green, swinging pendulum. The pendulum causes the scoop to dump the water into a series of siphons. The siphons fill and empty into the minutes' globes. A Siphon is a tube in an inverted \"U\" shape which causes the solution to flow up, without pumps, powered by the fall of the liquid as it flows down the tube under the pull of gravity. One minute globe represents two minutes. When all thirty-minute globes are full, they empty and an additional hour globe fills. Twice a day, at one o'clock, all of the hour globes and minute discs are full and the water empties until only the first hour globe is left full.\n\nTo read the clock the viewer finds the number of filled \"hour\" spheres lining the left side of the clock and the number of filled discs on the \"minutes\" side of the clock, with each disc equaling two minutes.\n\nThe water clock has two pumps in the basement – one that keeps the clock working, and a backup in case the first fails. The of fluid in the clock is not pure water. It is composed of deionized water (to keep it electrically unconductive), coloring (to make the water easier to see), and methyl alcohol (to keep bacteria from growing in the clock). The color of the water can be changed by stopping the clock, draining the water, and replacing it with water of the new color.\n\nThe water clock was created by Bernard Gitton, a French physical chemist and artist who combines those two studies by creating water clocks, water calculators, fountains, and other items of art and science. Bernard began making items of artistic science in 1979, at the age of 43, when he left the world of research science to create scientific art.\n\n\n"}
