{"id": "34022094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34022094", "title": "Active perception", "text": "Active perception\n\nActive Perception is where an agents' behaviors are selected in order to increase the information content derived from the flow of sensor data obtained by those behaviors in the environment in question. In other words, in order to understand the world we move around and explore it. We sample the world through our eyes, ears, nose, skin, and tongue as we explore and construct an understanding (Perception) of the environment on the basis of this behavior (Action). Within the construct of Active Perception, the interpretation of sensor data (perception) is inherently inseparable from the behaviors required to capture that data - action (behaviors) and perception (interpretation of sensor data) are tightly coupled. This has been developed most comprehensively with respect to vision (Active Vision) where an agent (animal, robot, human, camera mount) changes position in order to improve the view of a specific object and/or where the agent uses movement in order to perceive the environment (e.g. for obstacle avoidance).\n\nMore formally Active Perception has been defined as follows:\n\n\"Active Perception (Active Vision specifically) is defined as a study of Modeling and Control strategies for perception. By modeling we mean models of sensors, processing modules and their interaction. We distinguish local models from global models by their extent of application in space and time. The local models represent procedures and parameters such as optical distortions of the lens, focal lens, spatial resolution, band-pass filter, etc. The global models on the other hand characterize the overall performance and make predictions on how the individual modules interact. The control strategies are formulated as a search of such sequence of steps that would minimize a loss function while one is seeking the most information. Examples are shown as the existence proof of the proposed theory on obtaining range from focus and sterolvergence on 2-0 segmentation of an image and 3-0 shape parametrization\".\n\nThe theory of Optical Flow was derived from concepts of Active Perception, and while optical flow is now typically considered to be a vector representation of motion captured by a vision sensor (camera), it was originally described in terms of Active Perception. The behavior of the agent (animal, robot, human) in the world generates a flow of data over the visual sensor (camera, eye) which is sampled by the sensor and interpreted into a percept of the environment by the agent, through some computation. On the basis of this percept the agent then selects another behavior that generates more data flow. Thus Optical Flow is the data flow carried by light from the environment to the vision sensor as a result of movement in the environment.\n\nThere is a related but narrower definition of active perception that perception and action are represented within the brain as the same thing. It states that when a person sees an action done, it is internally translated into, and understood within the context of, an action that they could do. This supports the capability in people and animals of learning what to do based on what they see others doing.\n\nActive Perception is part of the broader field of ecological psychology. Ecological Psychology (and theories of Ecological Perception) was formulated by gestalt psychologists in the 1930s, and refined by Gibson through the 1950s to 1970s. The theory has held strong, although for the approximately 80 years that it has been around, it has always been considered a niche area of psychology. Ecological Perception has had little traction in medicine, for instance, until recently, when a series of coherent hypotheses proposed that active perception is the basis for developmental disorders and psychiatric symptoms.\n\nThe recognition of objects and opportunities (or \"affordances\") as they are called by Gibson, is a function of the Ecological Perception. A glass of water is recognized through the fact that it supports a desire to drink, and a book by reading, although usually affordances are considered at a more basic level e.g. that rock affords me to sit upon it. The fact that most people don't read every book that comes their way, drink every glass of water, or sit on every rock, is thought to be a function of a secondary inhibition process, thus people with damaged inhibitory circuitry (in the frontal lobe of the brain) have no choice but to act in the face of perception. The classic examples are in the studies of environmental dependence syndrome and utilization behavior by.\n\nThere is a wide range of work on the application of active perception to robotics, including ground vehicles, underwater vehicles, and air vehicles. As one would expect, when optical flow is included in the definition of active perception then the volume of related work significantly increases.\n\nActive Perception Demonstration of Small Aerial Robot Reactive Obstacle Avoidance and Goal Finding\n"}
{"id": "32433984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32433984", "title": "Akbariyya", "text": "Akbariyya\n\nAkbariyya is a branch of Sufi metaphysics based on Ibn Arabi's teachings, an Andalusian Sufi who was a gnostic and philosopher. The word is derived from Ibn Arabi's nickname, \"Shaykh al-Akbar,\" meaning \"the greatest shaykh.\" Akbariyya has never been used to indicate a Sufi group or society in history; it may nowadays refer to all historical or contemporary Sufi metaphysicians and Sufis influenced by Ibn Arabi's doctrine Wahdat al-Wujud. It is not to be confused with Al Akbariyya, a secret Sufi society founded by a Swedish Sufi 'Abdu l-Hadi Aguéli.\n\nWahdat al-Wajud (Arabic: وحدة الوجود Persian: وحدت وجود) meaning the \"unity of being\" is a Sufi philosophy emphasizing that 'there is no true existence except the Ultimate Truth (God)' or in other words, that the only truth within the universe is God, and that all things exist within God only.\n\nIbn Arabi is most often characterized in Islamic texts as the originator of this doctrine. However, it is not found in his works. The first to employ this term was Ibn Sabin.\n\nIbn Arabi's disciple and stepson Sadr al-Din al-Qunawi used this term in his works and explained it using philosophical terms.\n\nSee Sufi metaphysics\n\nIn the 20th century there has been focus on the Akbariyya School in academic circles and universities.\nViewed in a historical context, increased government support for the study of the Muslim world and Islamic languages emerged in the United States after the Second World War where many students were attracted to Islam and religious studies during the 1970s.\n\nThe greatest growth in American scholarship on Sufism, then, has arisen from the work done by scholars trained during the 1970s. Alexander Knysh notes that “in the decades after World War Two the majority of Western experts in Sufism were no longer based in Europe, but in North America.” Henri Corbin (d.1978) and Fritz Meier (d. 1998) who were prominent among these experts, made important contributions to the study of Islamic mysticism. Another important names were Miguel Asín Palacios (d. 1944), Louis Massignon (d. 1962) made contributions to Ibn Arabi studies. While Palacios discovered some Akbarian elements in Dante's famous work Divine Comedy Louis Massignon studied on famous Sufi Al-Hallaj saying \"Anal Hak\" (I am the Truth) and because of that expression he was executed.\n\nSeyyed Hossein Nasr and his students and academic disciples, has come to play an important role in certain subfields of Sufi studies. The Influence of Nasr and other Traditionalist writers like Rene Guenon and Frithjof Schuon on Sufi studies could be seen on the interpretation of the works of Ibn Arabi and the Akbarian school by such scholars as Titus Burckhardt, Martin Lings, James Morris, William Chittick, and Sachiko Murata and others. These names are both mostly practitioners of Sufism and scholars studying Sufism.\n\nHistorically viewed, Turkey is where Ibn Arabi's most prominent disciple, successor and stepson Sadr al-Din al-Qunawi and other important commentators of Arabi's works lived on.\nDawūd al-Qayṣarī was invited to Iznik by Orhan Ghazi to be director and teacher of the first Ottoman university (madrasa) was the disciple of Kamāl al-Dīn al-Qāshānī, himself a disciple of Sadr al-Dīn al-Qūnawī. This means that the official teaching itself was set in motion by a great master of the Akbarian school. Not only Sufis but also Ottoman sultans, politicians and intellectuals had been deeply impressed by Ibn Arabi and his disciples and interpreters.\nSeyyed Muhammad Nur al-Arabi was also impressed by Ibn Arabi's doctrine, though that continued to decrease until the Modern Era. In the 20th century the last important commentator of Fusûs was Ahmed Avni Konuk (d. 1938). He was a mawlawî and composer of Turkish music.\n\nStudies on Sufism, especially Akbarian works, were not very common until the first Ph.D. thesis was written by Prof.Dr. Mahmud Erol Kılıc in Marmara University's Faculty of Theology titled \"Ibn 'Arabi's Ontology\" (in Turkish, \"Muhyiddin İbn Arabi'de Varlık ve Varlık Mertebeleri\") in 1995. Academic studies on Akbarian metaphysics and philosophy began to rise after studies on this topics were conducted by Turkish scholars such as Mustafa Tahralı and Mahmud Erol Kılıc.\n\nIn terms of Akbarian studies, the most important event to take place was the translation of Ibn Arabi's magnum opus,\"Futuhat-ı Makkiyya\", to Turkish. A Turkish scholar, Prof. Dr. Ekrem Demirli started translating the work in the form of 18 volumes in 2006 and finished in 2012. This particular translation was the first complete translation to another language. Demirli's work also includes translating Sadr al-Din al-Qunawi's corpus to Turkish and writing a PhD thesis on him in 2004, writing a commentary on Fusus al-Hikam by Ibn Arabi, and writing a book titled \"İslam Metafiziğinde Tanrı ve İnsan\" (God and Human in Islamic Metaphysics), [Istanbul: Kabalcı, 2009 ()].\n\nThere are many Akbarian works in Ottoman Turkish that are yet to be studies by scholars.\n\nThere had and have been many Akbarian Sufis, metaphysicians and philosophers in history from all over the world. Ibn Arabi has never founded a Tarikah but created the philosophy of Wahdat al-Wujud. The Sufis listed below were members of different orders, but following the concept of Wahdat al-Wujud.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1640", "title": "Alfred the Great", "text": "Alfred the Great\n\nAlfred the Great (, , \"elf counsel\" or \"wise elf\"; 849 – 26 October 899) was King of Wessex from 871 to c. 886 and King of the Anglo-Saxons from c. 886 to 899.\n\nAlfred was the youngest son of King Æthelwulf of Wessex. His father died when he was young and three of Alfred's brothers reigned in turn. Taking the throne after the death of his brother Æthelred, Alfred spent several years dealing with Viking invasions. After a decisive victory in the Battle of Edington in 878 Alfred made an agreement with the Vikings, creating what was known as Danelaw in the North of England. Alfred also oversaw the conversion of the Viking leader, Guthrum.\n\nAlfred successfully defended his kingdom against the Viking attempt at conquest, and by the time of his death had become the dominant ruler in England. He was also the first King of the West Saxons to style himself \"King of the Anglo-Saxons\". Details of Alfred's life are described in a work by the 9th-century Welsh scholar and bishop Asser.\n\nAlfred had a reputation as a learned and merciful man of a gracious and level-headed nature who encouraged education, proposing that primary education be conducted in English rather than Latin, and improved his kingdom's legal system, military structure, and his people's quality of life. He was given the epithet \"the Great\" during and after the Reformation in the sixteenth century. The only other king of England given this epithet is Cnut the Great. In 2002, Alfred was ranked number 14 in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons.\n\nAlfred was born in the village of Wanating, now Wantage, historically in Berkshire but now in Oxfordshire. He was the youngest son of King Æthelwulf of Wessex by his first wife, Osburh.\n\nIn 853, at the age of four, Alfred is reported by the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" to have been sent to Rome where he was confirmed by Pope Leo IV, who \"anointed him as king\". Victorian writers later interpreted this as an anticipatory coronation in preparation for his eventual succession to the throne of Wessex. This is unlikely; his succession could not have been foreseen at the time as Alfred had three living elder brothers. A letter of Leo IV shows that Alfred was made a \"consul\"; a misinterpretation of this investiture, deliberate or accidental, could explain later confusion. It may also be based on Alfred's later having accompanied his father on a pilgrimage to Rome where he spent some time at the court of Charles the Bald, King of the Franks, around 854–855.\n\nOn their return from Rome in 856 Æthelwulf was deposed by his son Æthelbald. With civil war looming the magnates of the realm met in council to hammer out a compromise. Æthelbald would retain the western shires (i.e. historical Wessex), and Æthelwulf would rule in the east. When King Æthelwulf died in 858 Wessex was ruled by three of Alfred's brothers in succession: Æthelbald, Æthelberht and Æthelred.\n\nBishop Asser tells the story of how as a child Alfred won as a prize a book of Saxon poems, offered by his mother to the first of her children able to memorize it. Legend also has it that the young Alfred spent time in Ireland seeking healing. Alfred was troubled by health problems throughout his life. It is thought that he may have suffered from Crohn's disease. Statues of Alfred in Winchester and Wantage portray him as a great warrior. Evidence suggests he was not physically strong and, though not lacking in courage, he was noted more for his intellect than as a warlike character.\n\nAlfred is not mentioned during the short reigns of his older brothers Æthelbald and Æthelberht. The \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" describes the Great Heathen Army, an army of Danes, landing in East Anglia with the intent of conquering the four kingdoms that constituted Anglo-Saxon England in 865. Alfred's public life began at age 16 with the accession of his third brother, 18-year-old King Æthelred, in 865.\n\nDuring this period, Bishop Asser applied to Alfred the unique title of \"secundarius\", which may indicate a position similar to the Celtic \"tanist\", a recognised successor closely associated with the reigning monarch. This arrangement may have been sanctioned by Alfred's father or by the Witan to guard against the danger of a disputed succession should Æthelred fall in battle. It is well known among other Germanic peoples to crown a successor as royal prince and military commander, such as among the Swedes and Franks, to whom the Anglo-Saxons were closely related.\n\nIn 868, Alfred is recorded as fighting beside Æthelred in an unsuccessful attempt to keep the Great Heathen Army led by Ivar the Boneless out of the adjoining Kingdom of Mercia. The Danes arrived in his homeland at the end of 870, and nine engagements were fought in the following year, with varying outcomes, though the places and dates of two of these battles have not been recorded.\n\nA successful skirmish at the Battle of Englefield in Berkshire on 31 December 870 was followed by a severe defeat at the siege and Battle of Reading by Ivar's brother Halfdan Ragnarsson on 5 January 871. Four days later, the Anglo-Saxons won a brilliant victory at the Battle of Ashdown on the Berkshire Downs, possibly near Compton or Aldworth. Alfred is particularly credited with the success of this last battle.\n\nThe Saxons were defeated at the Battle of Basing on 22 January. They were defeated again on 22 March at the Battle of Merton (perhaps Marden in Wiltshire or Martin in Dorset). Æthelred died shortly afterwards on 23 April.\n\nIn April 871 King Æthelred died and Alfred succeeded to the throne of Wessex and the burden of its defence, even though Æthelred left two under-age sons, Æthelhelm and Æthelwold. This was in accordance with the agreement that Æthelred and Alfred had made earlier that year in an assembly at \"Swinbeorg\". The brothers had agreed that whichever of them outlived the other would inherit the personal property that King Æthelwulf had left jointly to his sons in his will. The deceased's sons would receive only whatever property and riches their father had settled upon them, and whatever additional lands their uncle had acquired. The unstated premise was that the surviving brother would be king. Given the ongoing Danish invasion and the youth of his nephews, Alfred's accession probably went uncontested.\n\nWhile he was busy with the burial ceremonies for his brother, the Danes defeated the Saxon army in his absence at an unnamed spot, and then again in his presence at Wilton in May. The defeat at Wilton smashed any remaining hope that Alfred could drive the invaders from his kingdom. He was forced instead to make peace with them, according to sources that do not tell what the terms of the peace were. Bishop Asser claimed that the pagans agreed to vacate the realm and made good their promise.\n\nIndeed, the Viking army did withdraw from Reading in the autumn of 871 to take up winter quarters in Mercian London. Although not mentioned by Asser, or by the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\", Alfred probably also paid the Vikings cash to leave, much as the Mercians were to do in the following year. Hoards dating to the Viking occupation of London in 871/2 have been excavated at Croydon, Gravesend, and Waterloo Bridge. These finds hint at the cost involved in making peace with the Vikings. For the next five years the Danes occupied other parts of England.\n\nIn 876 under their new leader, Guthrum, the Danes slipped past the Saxon army and attacked and occupied Wareham in Dorset. Alfred blockaded them but was unable to take Wareham by assault. Accordingly, he negotiated a peace which involved an exchange of hostages and oaths, which the Danes swore on a \"holy ring\" associated with the worship of Thor. The Danes broke their word and, after killing all the hostages, slipped away under cover of night to Exeter in Devon.\n\nAlfred blockaded the Viking ships in Devon and, with a relief fleet having been scattered by a storm, the Danes were forced to submit. The Danes withdrew to Mercia. In January 878 the Danes made a sudden attack on Chippenham, a royal stronghold in which Alfred had been staying over Christmas, \"and most of the people they killed, except the King Alfred, and he with a little band made his way by wood and swamp, and after Easter he made a fort at Athelney in the marshes of Somerset, and from that fort kept fighting against the foe.\" From his fort at Athelney, an island in the marshes near North Petherton, Alfred was able to mount an effective resistance movement, rallying the local militias from Somerset, Wiltshire and Hampshire.\n\nA legend, originating from 12th century chronicles, tells how when he first fled to the Somerset Levels, Alfred was given shelter by a peasant woman who, unaware of his identity, left him to watch some wheaten cakes she had left cooking on the fire. Preoccupied with the problems of his kingdom Alfred accidentally let the cakes burn and was roundly scolded by the woman upon her return.\n\n878 was the low-water mark in the history of the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms. With all the other kingdoms having fallen to the Vikings, Wessex alone was still resisting.\n\nIn the seventh week after Easter (4–10 May 878), around Whitsuntide, Alfred rode to Egbert's Stone east of Selwood where he was met by \"all the people of Somerset and of Wiltshire and of that part of Hampshire which is on this side of the sea (that is, west of Southampton Water), and they rejoiced to see him\". Alfred's emergence from his marshland stronghold was part of a carefully planned offensive that entailed raising the fyrds of three shires. This meant not only that the king had retained the loyalty of ealdormen, royal reeves and king's thegns, who were charged with levying and leading these forces, but that they had maintained their positions of authority in these localities well enough to answer his summons to war. Alfred's actions also suggest a system of scouts and messengers.\n\nAlfred won a decisive victory in the ensuing Battle of Edington which may have been fought near Westbury, Wiltshire. He then pursued the Danes to their stronghold at Chippenham and starved them into submission. One of the terms of the surrender was that Guthrum convert to Christianity. Three weeks later the Danish king and 29 of his chief men were baptised at Alfred's court at Aller, near Athelney, with Alfred receiving Guthrum as his spiritual son.\n\nAccording to Asser:\n\nThe unbinding of the chrisom on the eighth day took place at a royal estate called Wedmore.\n\nWhile at Wedmore Alfred and Guthrum negotiated what some historians have called the Treaty of Wedmore, but it was to be some years after the cessation of hostilities that a formal treaty was signed. Under the terms of the so-called Treaty of Wedmore the converted Guthrum was required to leave Wessex and return to East Anglia. Consequently, in 879 the Viking army left Chippenham and made its way to Cirencester. The formal Treaty of Alfred and Guthrum, preserved in Old English in Corpus Christi College, Cambridge (Manuscript 383), and in a Latin compilation known as \"Quadripartitus\", was negotiated later, perhaps in 879 or 880, when King Ceolwulf II of Mercia was deposed.\n\nThat treaty divided up the kingdom of Mercia. By its terms the boundary between Alfred's and Guthrum's kingdoms was to run up the River Thames to the River Lea, follow the Lea to its source (near Luton), from there extend in a straight line to Bedford, and from Bedford follow the River Ouse to Watling Street.\n\nIn other words, Alfred succeeded to Ceolwulf's kingdom consisting of western Mercia, and Guthrum incorporated the eastern part of Mercia into an enlarged kingdom of East Anglia (henceforward known as the Danelaw). By terms of the treaty, moreover, Alfred was to have control over the Mercian city of London and its mints—at least for the time being. The disposition of Essex, held by West Saxon kings since the days of Egbert, is unclear from the treaty though, given Alfred's political and military superiority, it would have been surprising if he had conceded any disputed territory to his new godson.\n\nWith the signing of the Treaty of Alfred and Guthrum, an event most commonly held to have taken place around 880 when Guthrum's people began settling East Anglia, Guthrum was neutralised as a threat. The Viking army, which had stayed at Fulham during the winter of 878–879, sailed for Ghent and was active on the continent from 879–892.\n\nAlfred was still forced to contend with a number of Danish threats. A year later, in 881, Alfred fought a small sea battle against four Danish ships \"on the high seas\", Two of the ships were destroyed and the others surrendered to Alfred's forces. Similar small skirmishes with independent Viking raiders would have occurred for much of the period, as they had for decades.\n\nIn 883—though there is some debate over the year—King Alfred, because of his support and his donation of alms to Rome, received a number of gifts from Pope Marinus. Among these gifts was reputed to be a piece of the true cross, a great treasure for the devout Saxon king. According to Asser, because of Pope Marinus's friendship with King Alfred, the pope granted an exemption to any Anglo-Saxons residing within Rome from tax or tribute.\n\nAfter the signing of the treaty with Guthrum, Alfred was spared any large-scale conflicts for some time. Despite this relative peace the king was still forced to deal with a number of Danish raids and incursions. Among these was a raid in Kent, an allied kingdom in South East England, during the year 885, which was quite possibly the largest raid since the battles with Guthrum. Asser's account of the raid places the Danish raiders at the Saxon city of Rochester where they built a temporary fortress in order to besiege the city. In response to this incursion Alfred led an Anglo-Saxon force against the Danes who, instead of engaging the army of Wessex, fled to their beached ships and sailed to another part of Britain. The retreating Danish force supposedly left Britain the following summer.\n\nNot long after the failed Danish raid in Kent, Alfred dispatched his fleet to East Anglia. The purpose of this expedition is debated, though Asser claims that it was for the sake of plunder. After travelling up the River Stour the fleet was met by Danish vessels that numbered 13 or 16 (sources vary on the number) and a battle ensued. The Anglo-Saxon fleet emerged victorious and, as Huntingdon accounts, \"laden with spoils\". The victorious fleet was then caught unawares when attempting to leave the River Stour and was attacked by a Danish force at the mouth of the river. The Danish fleet defeated Alfred's fleet, which may have been weakened in the previous engagement.\nA year later, in 886, Alfred reoccupied the city of London and set out to make it habitable again. Alfred entrusted the city to the care of his son-in-law Æthelred, ealdorman of Mercia. The restoration of London progressed through the latter half of the 880s and is believed to have revolved around a new street plan; added fortifications in addition to the existing Roman walls; and, some believe, the construction of matching fortifications on the south bank of the River Thames.\n\nThis is also the period in which almost all chroniclers agree that the Saxon people of pre-unification England submitted to Alfred. This was not, however, the point at which Alfred came to be known as King of England; in fact, he would never adopt the title for himself.\n\nBetween the restoration of London and the resumption of large-scale Danish attacks in the early 890s, Alfred's reign was rather uneventful. The relative peace of the late 880s was marred by the death of Alfred's sister, Æthelswith, en route to Rome in 888. In the same year the Archbishop of Canterbury, Æthelred, also died. One year later Guthrum, or Athelstan by his baptismal name, Alfred's former enemy and king of East Anglia, died and was buried in Hadleigh, Suffolk.\nGuthrum's passing changed the political landscape for Alfred. The resulting power vacuum stirred up other power-hungry warlords eager to take his place in the following years. The quiet years of Alfred's life were coming to a close and war was on the horizon.\n\nAfter another lull, in the autumn of 892 or 893, the Danes attacked again. Finding their position in mainland Europe precarious, they crossed to England in 330 ships in two divisions. They entrenched themselves, the larger body, at Appledore, Kent, and the lesser under Hastein, at Milton, also in Kent. The invaders brought their wives and children with them indicating a meaningful attempt at conquest and colonisation. Alfred, in 893 or 894, took up a position from which he could observe both forces.\n\nWhile he was in talks with Hastein, the Danes at Appledore broke out and struck northwestwards. They were overtaken by Alfred's eldest son, Edward, and were defeated in a general engagement at Farnham in Surrey. They took refuge on an island at Thorney, on the River Colne between Buckinghamshire and Middlesex, where they were blockaded and forced to give hostages and promise to leave Wessex. They then went to Essex and, after suffering another defeat at Benfleet, joined with Hastein's force at Shoebury.\n\nAlfred had been on his way to relieve his son at Thorney when he heard that the Northumbrian and East Anglian Danes were besieging Exeter and an unnamed stronghold on the North Devon shore. Alfred at once hurried westward and raised the Siege of Exeter. The fate of the other place is not recorded.\n\nMeanwhile, the force under Hastein set out to march up the Thames Valley, possibly with the idea of assisting their friends in the west. They were met by a large force under the three great ealdormen of Mercia, Wiltshire and Somerset and, forced to head off to the northwest, being finally overtaken and blockaded at Buttington. (Some identify this with Buttington Tump at the mouth of the River Wye, others with Buttington near Welshpool.) An attempt to break through the English lines was defeated. Those who escaped retreated to Shoebury. After collecting reinforcements, they made a sudden dash across England and occupied the ruined Roman walls of Chester. The English did not attempt a winter blockade but contented themselves with destroying all the supplies in the district.\n\nEarly in 894 or 895 lack of food obliged the Danes to retire once more to Essex. At the end of the year the Danes drew their ships up the River Thames and the River Lea and fortified themselves north of London. A direct attack on the Danish lines failed but, later in the year, Alfred saw a means of obstructing the river so as to prevent the egress of the Danish ships. The Danes realised that they were outmanoeuvred. They struck off north-westwards and wintered at Cwatbridge near Bridgnorth. The next year, 896 (or 897), they gave up the struggle. Some retired to Northumbria, some to East Anglia. Those who had no connections in England withdrew back to the continent.\n\nThe Germanic tribes who invaded Britain in the fifth and sixth centuries relied upon the unarmoured infantry supplied by their tribal levy, or fyrd, and it was upon this system that the military power of the several kingdoms of early Anglo-Saxon England depended. The fyrd was a local militia in the Anglo-Saxon shire in which all freemen had to serve; those who refused military service were subject to fines or loss of their land.\nAccording to the law code of King Ine of Wessex, issued in about 694:\nWessex's history of failures preceding his success in 878 emphasised to Alfred that the traditional system of battle he had inherited played to the Danes' advantage. While both the Anglo-Saxons and the Danes attacked settlements to seize wealth and other resources, they employed very different strategies. In their raids the Anglo-Saxons traditionally preferred to attack head-on by assembling their forces in a shield wall, advancing against their target and overcoming the oncoming wall marshalled against them in defence.\n\nIn contrast the Danes preferred to choose easy targets, mapping cautious forays designed to avoid risking all their accumulated plunder with high-stake attacks for more. Alfred determined their strategy was to launch smaller scaled attacks from a secure and reinforced defensible base to which they could retreat should their raiders meet strong resistance.\n\nThese bases were prepared in advance, often by capturing an estate and augmenting its defences with surrounding ditches, ramparts and palisades. Once inside the fortification, Alfred realised, the Danes enjoyed the advantage, better situated to outlast their opponents or crush them with a counter-attack as the provisions and stamina of the besieging forces waned.\n\nThe means by which the Anglo-Saxons marshalled forces to defend against marauders also left them vulnerable to the Vikings. It was the responsibility of the shire fyrd to deal with local raids. The king could call up the national militia to defend the kingdom but, in the case of the Viking hit-and-run raids, problems with communication, and raising supplies meant that the national militia could not be mustered quickly enough. It was only after the raids were underway that a call went out to landowners to gather their men for battle. Large regions could be devastated before the fyrd could assemble and arrive. And although the landowners were obliged to the king to supply these men when called, during the attacks in 878 many of them opportunistically abandoned their king and collaborated with Guthrum.\n\nWith these lessons in mind Alfred capitalised on the relatively peaceful years immediately following his victory at Edington by focusing on an ambitious restructuring of his kingdom's military defences. On a trip to Rome Alfred had stayed with Charles the Bald and it is possible that he may have studied how the Carolingian kings had dealt with the Viking problem. Learning from their experiences he was able to put together a system of taxation and defence for his own kingdom. Also there had been a system of fortifications in pre-Viking Mercia that may have been an influence. So when the Viking raids resumed in 892 Alfred was better prepared to confront them with a standing, mobile field army, a network of garrisons, and a small fleet of ships navigating the rivers and estuaries.\n\nTenants in Anglo-Saxon England had a threefold obligation based on their landholding: the so-called \"common burdens\" of military service, fortress work, and bridge repair. This threefold obligation has traditionally been called \"trinoda necessitas\" or \"trimoda necessitas\". The Old English name for the fine due for neglecting military service was .\n\nTo maintain the burhs, and to reorganise the fyrd as a standing army, Alfred expanded the tax and conscription system based on the productivity of a tenant's landholding. The \"hide\" was the basic unit of the system on which the tenant's public obligations were assessed. A \"hide\" is thought to represent the amount of land required to support one family. The \"hide\" would differ in size according to the value and resources of the land, and the landowner would have to provide service based on how many \"hides\" he owned.\n\nAt the centre of Alfred's reformed military defence system was the network of burhs, distributed at strategic points throughout the kingdom. There were thirty-three in total, spaced approximately apart, enabling the military to confront attacks anywhere in the kingdom within a single day.\n\nAlfred's burhs (later termed boroughs) ranged from former Roman towns, such as Winchester, where the stone walls were repaired and ditches added, to massive earthen walls surrounded by wide ditches, probably reinforced with wooden revetments and palisades, such as at Burpham, Sussex. The size of the burhs ranged from tiny outposts such as Pilton to large fortifications in established towns, the largest being at Winchester.\n\nA contemporary document now known as the Burghal Hidage provides an insight into how the system worked. It lists the \"hidage\" for each of the fortified towns contained in the document. For example, Wallingford had a \"hidage\" of 2400, which meant that the landowners there were responsible for supplying and feeding 2,400 men, the number sufficient for maintaining of wall. A total of 27,071 soldiers were needed system-wide, or approximately one in four of all the free men in Wessex.\n\nMany of the burhs were twin towns that straddled a river and were connected by a fortified bridge, like those built by Charles the Bald a generation before. The double-burh blocked passage on the river, forcing Viking ships to navigate under a garrisoned bridge lined with men armed with stones, spears, or arrows. Other burhs were sited near fortified royal villas, allowing the king better control over his strongholds.\nThe burhs were also interconnected by a road system maintained for army use (known as \"herepaths\"). These roads would allow an army to be quickly assembled, sometimes from more than one burh, to confront the Viking invader. This network posed significant obstacles to Viking invaders, especially those laden with booty. The system threatened Viking routes and communications making it far more dangerous for the Viking raiders. The Vikings lacked both the equipment necessary to undertake a siege against a burh and a developed doctrine of siegecraft, having tailored their methods of fighting to rapid strikes and unimpeded retreats to well-defended fortifications. The only means left to them was to starve the burh into submission, but this gave the king time to send his mobile field army or garrisons from neighbouring burhs along the well-maintained army roads. In such cases the Vikings were extremely vulnerable to pursuit by the king's joint military forces. Alfred's burh system posed such a formidable challenge against Viking attack that when the Vikings returned in 892, and successfully stormed a half-made, poorly garrisoned fortress up the Lympne estuary in Kent, the Anglo-Saxons were able to limit their penetration to the outer frontiers of Wessex and Mercia.\n\nAlfred's burghal system was revolutionary in its strategic conception and potentially expensive in its execution. His contemporary biographer Asser wrote that many nobles balked at the new demands placed upon them even though they were for \"the common needs of the kingdom\".\n\nAlfred also tried his hand at naval design. In 896 he ordered the construction of a small fleet, perhaps a dozen or so longships that, at 60 oars, were twice the size of Viking warships. This was not, as the Victorians asserted, the birth of the English Navy. Wessex had possessed a royal fleet before this. King Athelstan of Kent and Ealdorman Ealhhere had defeated a Viking fleet in 851 capturing nine ships, and Alfred himself had conducted naval actions in 882.\n\nNevertheless, 897 clearly marked an important development in the naval power of Wessex. The author of the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" related that Alfred's ships were larger, swifter, steadier and rode higher in the water than either Danish or Frisian ships. It is probable that, under the classical tutelage of Asser, Alfred utilised the design of Greek and Roman warships, with high sides, designed for fighting rather than for navigation.\n\nAlfred had seapower in mind—if he could intercept raiding fleets before they landed, he could spare his kingdom from being ravaged. Alfred's ships may have been superior in conception. In practice they proved to be too large to manoeuvre well in the close waters of estuaries and rivers, the only places in which a naval battle could occur.\n\nThe warships of the time were not designed to be ship killers but rather troop carriers. It has been suggested that, like sea battles in late Viking age Scandinavia, these battles may have entailed a ship coming alongside an enemy vessel, lashing the two ships together and then boarding the enemy craft. The result was effectively a land battle involving hand-to-hand fighting on board the two lashed vessels.\n\nIn the one recorded naval engagement in 896 Alfred's new fleet of nine ships intercepted six Viking ships at the mouth of an unidentified river in the south of England. The Danes had beached half their ships and gone inland. Alfred's ships immediately moved to block their escape. The three Viking ships afloat attempted to break through the English lines. Only one made it; Alfred's ships intercepted the other two. Lashing the Viking boats to their own, the English crew boarded and proceeded to kill the Vikings. One ship escaped, because Alfred's heavy ships became grounded when the tide went out. A land battle ensued between the crews. The Danes were heavily outnumbered, but as the tide rose they returned to their boats which, with shallower drafts, were freed first. The English watched as the Vikings rowed past them. But they had suffered so many casualties (120 dead against 62 Frisians and English) that they had difficulty putting out to sea. All were too damaged to row around Sussex and two were driven against the Sussex coast (possibly at Selsey Bill). The shipwrecked crew were brought before Alfred at Winchester and hanged.\n\nIn the late 880s or early 890s Alfred issued a long \"domboc\" or law code consisting of his \"own\" laws, followed by a code issued by his late seventh-century predecessor King Ine of Wessex. Together these laws are arranged into 120 chapters. In his introduction Alfred explains that he gathered together the laws he found in many \"synod-books\" and \"ordered to be written many of the ones that our forefathers observed—those that pleased me; and many of the ones that did not please me, I rejected with the advice of my councillors, and commanded them to be observed in a different way\".\n\nAlfred singled out in particular the laws that he \"found in the days of Ine, my kinsman, or Offa, king of the Mercians, or King Æthelberht of Kent who first among the English people received baptism\". He appended, rather than integrated, the laws of Ine into his code and, although he included, as had Æthelbert, a scale of payments in compensation for injuries to various body parts the two injury tariffs are not aligned. Offa is not known to have issued a law code leading historian Patrick Wormald to speculate that Alfred had in mind the legatine capitulary of 786 that was presented to Offa by two papal legates.\n\nAbout a fifth of the law code is taken up by Alfred's introduction which includes translations into English of the Ten Commandments, a few chapters from the Book of Exodus, and the \"Apostolic Letter\" from the Acts of the Apostles (15:23–29). The Introduction may best be understood as Alfred's meditation upon the meaning of Christian law. It traces the continuity between God's gift of law to Moses to Alfred's own issuance of law to the West Saxon people. By doing so, it linked the holy past to the historical present and represented Alfred's law-giving as a type of divine legislation.\n\nSimilarly Alfred divided his code into 120 chapters because 120 was the age at which Moses died and, in the number-symbolism of early medieval biblical exegetes, 120 stood for law. The link between the Mosaic Law and Alfred's code is the \"Apostolic Letter\" which explained that Christ \"had come not to shatter or annul the commandments but to fulfill them; and he taught mercy and meekness\". (Intro, 49.1) The mercy that Christ infused into Mosaic Law underlies the injury tariffs that figure so prominently in barbarian law codes since Christian synods \"established, through that mercy which Christ taught, that for almost every misdeed at the first offence secular lords might with their permission receive without sin the monetary compensation which they then fixed\".\n\nThe only crime that could not be compensated with a payment of money was treachery to a lord \"since Almighty God adjudged none for those who despised Him, nor did Christ, the Son of God, adjudge any for the one who betrayed Him to death; and He commanded everyone to love his lord as Himself\". Alfred's transformation of Christ's commandment, from \"Love your neighbour as yourself\" (Matt. 22:39–40) to love your secular lord as you would love the Lord Christ himself, underscores the importance that Alfred placed upon lordship which he understood as a sacred bond instituted by God for the governance of man.\n\nWhen one turns from the domboc's introduction to the laws themselves it is difficult to uncover any logical arrangement. The impression one receives is of a hodgepodge of miscellaneous laws. The law code, as it has been preserved, is singularly unsuitable for use in lawsuits. In fact several of Alfred's laws contradicted the laws of Ine that form an integral part of the code. Patrick Wormald's explanation is that Alfred's law code should be understood not as a legal manual but as an ideological manifesto of kingship \"designed more for symbolic impact than for practical direction\". In practical terms the most important law in the code may well have been the very first: \"We enjoin, what is most necessary, that each man keep carefully his oath and his pledge\" which expresses a fundamental tenet of Anglo-Saxon law.\n\nAlfred devoted considerable attention and thought to judicial matters. Asser underscores his concern for judicial fairness. Alfred, according to Asser, insisted upon reviewing contested judgments made by his ealdormen and reeves and \"would carefully look into nearly all the judgements which were passed [issued] in his absence anywhere in the realm to see whether they were just or unjust\". A charter from the reign of his son Edward the Elder depicts Alfred as hearing one such appeal in his chamber while washing his hands.\n\nAsser represents Alfred as a Solomonic judge, painstaking in his own judicial investigations and critical of royal officials who rendered unjust or unwise judgments. Although Asser never mentions Alfred's law code he does say that Alfred insisted that his judges be literate so that they could apply themselves \"to the pursuit of wisdom\". The failure to comply with this royal order was to be punished by loss of office.\n\nThe \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\", commissioned at the time of Alfred, was probably written to promote unification of England, whereas Asser's \"The Life of King Alfred\" promoted Alfred's achievements and personal qualities. It was possible that the document was designed this way so that it could be disseminated in Wales, as Alfred had recently acquired overlordship of that country.\n\nAsser speaks grandiosely of Alfred's relations with foreign powers but little definite information is available. His interest in foreign countries is shown by the insertions which he made in his translation of Orosius. He corresponded with Elias III, the Patriarch of Jerusalem, and embassies to Rome conveying the English alms to the Pope were fairly frequent. Around 890 Wulfstan of Hedeby undertook a journey from Hedeby on Jutland along the Baltic Sea to the Prussian trading town of Truso. Alfred personally collected details of this trip.\n\nAlfred's relations with the Celtic princes in the western half of Britain are clearer. Comparatively early in his reign, according to Asser, the southern Welsh princes, owing to the pressure on them from North Wales and Mercia, commended themselves to Alfred. Later in his reign the North Welsh followed their example and the latter cooperated with the English in the campaign of 893 (or 894). That Alfred sent alms to Irish and Continental monasteries may be taken on Asser's authority. The visit of the three pilgrim \"Scots\" (i.e. Irish) to Alfred in 891 is undoubtedly authentic. The story that he himself in his childhood was sent to Ireland to be healed by Saint Modwenna, though mythical, may show Alfred's interest in that island.\n\nIn the 880s, at the same time that he was \"cajoling and threatening\" his nobles to build and man the burhs, Alfred, perhaps inspired by the example of Charlemagne almost a century before, undertook an equally ambitious effort to revive learning. During this time period the Viking raids were often seen as a divine punishment and Alfred may have wished to revive religious awe in order to appease God's wrath.\n\nThis revival entailed the recruitment of clerical scholars from Mercia, Wales and abroad to enhance the tenor of the court and of the episcopacy; the establishment of a court school to educate his own children, the sons of his nobles, and intellectually promising boys of lesser birth; an attempt to require literacy in those who held offices of authority; a series of translations into the vernacular of Latin works the king deemed \"most necessary for all men to know\"; the compilation of a chronicle detailing the rise of Alfred's kingdom and house, with a genealogy that stretched back to Adam, thus giving the West Saxon kings a biblical ancestry.\n\nVery little is known of the church under Alfred. The Danish attacks had been particularly damaging to the monasteries. Although Alfred founded monasteries at Athelney and Shaftesbury, these were the first new monastic houses in Wessex since the beginning of the eighth century. According to Asser, Alfred enticed foreign monks to England for his monastery at Athelney as there was little interest for the locals to take up the monastic life.\n\nAlfred undertook no systematic reform of ecclesiastical institutions or religious practices in Wessex. For him the key to the kingdom's spiritual revival was to appoint pious, learned, and trustworthy bishops and abbots. As king he saw himself as responsible for both the temporal and spiritual welfare of his subjects. Secular and spiritual authority were not distinct categories for Alfred.\n\nHe was equally comfortable distributing his translation of Gregory the Great's \"Pastoral Care\" to his bishops so that they might better train and supervise priests and using those same bishops as royal officials and judges. Nor did his piety prevent him from expropriating strategically sited church lands, especially estates along the border with the Danelaw, and transferring them to royal thegns and officials who could better defend them against Viking attacks.\n\nThe Danish raids had a devastating effect on learning in England. Alfred lamented in the preface to his translation of Gregory's \"Pastoral Care\" that \"learning had declined so thoroughly in England that there were very few men on this side of the Humber who could understand their divine services in English or even translate a single letter from Latin into English: and I suppose that there were not many beyond the Humber either\". Alfred undoubtedly exaggerated, for dramatic effect, the abysmal state of learning in England during his youth. That Latin learning had not been obliterated is evidenced by the presence in his court of learned Mercian and West Saxon clerics such as Plegmund, Wæferth, and Wulfsige.\n\nManuscript production in England dropped off precipitously around the 860s when the Viking invasions began in earnest, not to be revived until the end of the century. Numerous Anglo-Saxon manuscripts burnt up along with the churches that housed them. And a solemn diploma from Christ Church, Canterbury, dated 873, is so poorly constructed and written that historian Nicholas Brooks posited a scribe who was either so blind he could not read what he wrote or who knew little or no Latin. \"It is clear\", Brooks concludes, \"that the metropolitan church [of Canterbury] must have been quite unable to provide any effective training in the scriptures or in Christian worship\".\n\nFollowing the example of Charlemagne, Alfred established a court school for the education of his own children, those of the nobility, and \"a good many of lesser birth\". There they studied books in both English and Latin and \"devoted themselves to writing, to such an extent ... they were seen to be devoted and intelligent students of the liberal arts\". He recruited scholars from the Continent and from Britain to aid in the revival of Christian learning in Wessex and to provide the king personal instruction. Grimbald and John the Saxon came from Francia; Plegmund (whom Alfred appointed archbishop of Canterbury in 890), Bishop Werferth of Worcester, Æthelstan, and the royal chaplains Werwulf, from Mercia; and Asser, from St David's in southwestern Wales.\n\nAlfred's educational ambitions seem to have extended beyond the establishment of a court school. Believing that without Christian wisdom there can be neither prosperity nor success in war, Alfred aimed \"to set to learning (as long as they are not useful for some other employment) all the free-born young men now in England who have the means to apply themselves to it\". Conscious of the decay of Latin literacy in his realm Alfred proposed that primary education be taught in English, with those wishing to advance to holy orders to continue their studies in Latin.\n\nThere were few \"books of wisdom\" written in English. Alfred sought to remedy this through an ambitious court-centred programme of translating into English the books he deemed \"most necessary for all men to know\". It is unknown when Alfred launched this programme but it may have been during the 880s when Wessex was enjoying a respite from Viking attacks. Alfred was, until recently, often considered to have been the author of many of the translations but this is now considered doubtful in almost all cases. Scholars more often refer to translations as \"Alfredian\" indicating that they probably had something to do with his patronage but are unlikely to be his own work.\n\nApart from the lost \"Handboc\" or \"Encheiridio\", which seems to have been a commonplace book kept by the king, the earliest work to be translated was the \"Dialogues\" of Gregory the Great, a book greatly popular in the Middle Ages. The translation was undertaken at Alfred's command by Werferth, Bishop of Worcester, with the king merely furnishing a preface. Remarkably Alfred, undoubtedly with the advice and aid of his court scholars, translated four works himself: Gregory the Great's \"Pastoral Care\", Boethius's \"Consolation of Philosophy\"\", St. Augustine's \"Soliloquies\" and the first fifty psalms of the Psalter.\n\nOne might add to this list the translation, in Alfred's law code, of excerpts from the Vulgate Book of Exodus. The Old English versions of Orosius's \"Histories against the Pagans\" and Bede's \"Ecclesiastical History of the English People\" are no longer accepted by scholars as Alfred's own translations because of lexical and stylistic differences. Nonetheless the consensus remains that they were part of the Alfredian programme of translation. Simon Keynes and Michael Lapidge suggest this also for Bald's \"Leechbook\" and the anonymous \"Old English Martyrology\".\n\nThe preface of Alfred's translation of Pope Gregory the Great's \"Pastoral Care\" explained why he thought it necessary to translate works such as this from Latin into English. Although he described his method as translating \"sometimes word for word, sometimes sense for sense\", the translation actually keeps very close to the original although, through his choice of language, he blurred throughout the distinction between spiritual and secular authority. Alfred meant the translation to be used, and circulated it to all his bishops. Interest in Alfred's translation of \"Pastoral Care\" was so enduring that copies were still being made in the 11th century.\n\nBoethius's \"Consolation of Philosophy\" was the most popular philosophical handbook of the Middle Ages. Unlike the translation of the \"Pastoral Care\" the Alfredian text deals very freely with the original and, though the late Dr. G. Schepss showed that many of the additions to the text are to be traced not to the translator himself but to the glosses and commentaries which he used, still there is much in the work which is distinctive to the translation and has been taken to reflect philosophies of kingship in Alfred's milieu. It is in the Boethius that the oft-quoted sentence occurs: \"To speak briefly: I desired to live worthily as long as I lived, and after my life to leave to them that should come after, my memory in good works.\" The book has come down to us in two manuscripts only. In one of these the writing is prose, in the other a combination of prose and alliterating verse. The latter manuscript was severely damaged in the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\nThe last of the Alfredian works is one which bears the name \"Blostman\", i.e. \"Blooms\" or Anthology. The first half is based mainly on the \"Soliloquies\" of St Augustine of Hippo, the remainder is drawn from various sources. The material has traditionally been thought to contain much that is Alfred's own and highly characteristic of him. The last words of it may be quoted; they form a fitting epitaph for the noblest of English kings. \"Therefore, he seems to me a very foolish man, and truly wretched, who will not increase his understanding while he is in the world, and ever wish and long to reach that endless life where all shall be made clear.\" Alfred appears as a character in the twelfth- or thirteenth-century poem \"The Owl and the Nightingale\" where his wisdom and skill with proverbs is praised. \"The Proverbs of Alfred\", a thirteenth-century work, contains sayings that are not likely to have originated with Alfred but attest to his posthumous medieval reputation for wisdom.\n\nThe Alfred jewel, discovered in Somerset in 1693, has long been associated with King Alfred because of its Old English inscription AELFRED MEC HEHT GEWYRCAN (Alfred ordered me to be made). The jewel is about long, made of filigreed gold, enclosing a highly polished piece of quartz crystal beneath which is set in a cloisonné enamel plaque with an enamelled image of a man holding floriate sceptres, perhaps personifying Sight or the Wisdom of God.\n\nIt was at one time attached to a thin rod or stick based on the hollow socket at its base. The jewel certainly dates from Alfred's reign. Although its function is unknown it has been often suggested that the jewel was one of the \"æstels\"—pointers for reading—that Alfred ordered sent to every bishopric accompanying a copy of his translation of the \"Pastoral Care\". Each \"æstel\" was worth the princely sum of 50 mancuses which fits in well with the quality workmanship and expensive materials of the Alfred jewel.\n\nHistorian Richard Abels sees Alfred's educational and military reforms as complementary. Restoring religion and learning in Wessex, Abels contends, was to Alfred's mind as essential to the defence of his realm as the building of the burhs. As Alfred observed in the preface to his English translation of Gregory the Great's \"Pastoral Care\", kings who fail to obey their divine duty to promote learning can expect earthly punishments to befall their people. The pursuit of wisdom, he assured his readers of the Boethius, was the surest path to power: \"Study Wisdom, then, and, when you have learned it, condemn it not, for I tell you that by its means you may without fail attain to power, yea, even though not desiring it\".\n\nThe portrayal of the West-Saxon resistance to the Vikings by Asser and the chronicler as a Christian holy war was more than mere rhetoric or 'propaganda'. It reflected Alfred's own belief in a doctrine of divine rewards and punishments rooted in a vision of a hierarchical Christian world order in which God is the Lord to whom kings owe obedience and through whom they derive their authority over their followers. The need to persuade his nobles to undertake work for the 'common good' led Alfred and his court scholars to strengthen and deepen the conception of Christian kingship that he had inherited by building upon the legacy of earlier kings such as Offa as well as clerical writers such as Bede, Alcuin and the other luminaries of the Carolingian renaissance. This was not a cynical use of religion to manipulate his subjects into obedience but an intrinsic element in Alfred's worldview. He believed, as did other kings in ninth-century England and Francia, that God had entrusted him with the spiritual as well as physical welfare of his people. If the Christian faith fell into ruin in his kingdom, if the clergy were too ignorant to understand the Latin words they butchered in their offices and liturgies, if the ancient monasteries and collegiate churches lay deserted out of indifference, he was answerable before God, as Josiah had been. Alfred's ultimate responsibility was the pastoral care of his people.\n\nAsser wrote of Alfred in his \"Life of King Alfred\":\nIt is also written by Asser that Alfred did not learn to read until he was twelve years old or later, which is described as \"shameful negligence\" of his parents and tutors. Alfred was an excellent listener and had an incredible memory and he retained poetry and psalms very well. A story is told by Asser about how his mother held up a book of Saxon poetry to him and his brothers, and said; \"I shall give this book to whichever one of you can learn it the fastest.\" After excitedly asking, \"Will you really give this book to the one of us who can understand it the soonest and recite it to you?\" Alfred then took it to his teacher, learned it, and recited it back to his mother.\n\nAlfred is also noted as carrying around a small book, probably a medieval version of a small pocket notebook, which contained psalms and many prayers that he often collected. Asser writes: these \"he collected in a single book, as I have seen for myself; amid all the affairs of the present life he took it around with him everywhere for the sake of prayer, and was inseparable from it.\"\n\nAn excellent hunter in every branch of the sport, Alfred is remembered as an enthusiastic huntsman against whom nobody's skills could compare.\n\nAlthough he was the youngest of his brothers, he was probably the most open-minded. He was an early advocate for education. His desire for learning could have come from his early love of English poetry and inability to read or physically record it until later in life. Asser writes that Alfred \"could not satisfy his craving for what he desired the most, namely the liberal arts; for, as he used to say, there were no good scholars in the entire kingdom of the West Saxons at that time\". \n\nIn 868, Alfred married Ealhswith, daughter of a Mercian nobleman, Æthelred Mucel, Ealdorman of the Gaini. The Gaini were probably one of the tribal groups of the Mercians. Ealhswith's mother, Eadburh, was a member of the Mercian royal family.\n\nThey had five or six children together including: Edward the Elder who succeeded his father as king; Æthelflæd who became Lady (ruler) of the Mercians in her own right; and Ælfthryth who married Baldwin II the Count of Flanders. His mother was Osburga, daughter of Oslac of the Isle of Wight, Chief Butler of England. Asser, in his \"Vita Ælfredi\" asserts that this shows his lineage from the Jutes of the Isle of Wight. This is unlikely as Bede tells us that they were all slaughtered by the Saxons under Cædwalla. In 2008, the skeleton of Queen Eadgyth, granddaughter of Alfred the Great was found in Magdeburg Cathedral in Germany. It was confirmed in 2010 that these remains belong to her—one of the earliest members of the English royal family.\n\nOsferth was described as a relative in King Alfred's will and he attested charters in a high position until 934. A charter of King Edward's reign described him as the king's brother, \"mistakenly\" according to Keynes and Lapidge, but in the view of Janet Nelson he probably was an illegitimate son of King Alfred.\n\nAlfred died on 26 October 899. How he died is unknown, although he suffered throughout his life with a painful and unpleasant illness. His biographer Asser gave a detailed description of Alfred's symptoms and this has allowed modern doctors to provide a possible diagnosis. It is thought that he had either Crohn's disease or haemorrhoidal disease. His grandson King Eadred seems to have suffered from a similar illness.\n\nAlfred was originally buried temporarily in the Old Minster in Winchester. Four years after his death he was moved to the New Minster (perhaps built especially to receive his body). When the New Minster moved to Hyde, a little north of the city, in 1110, the monks were transferred to Hyde Abbey along with Alfred's body and those of his wife and children, which were presumably interred before the high altar. Soon after the dissolution of the abbey in 1539, during the reign of Henry VIII, the church was demolished, leaving the graves intact.\n\nThe royal graves and many others were probably rediscovered by chance in 1788 when a prison was being constructed by convicts on the site. Prisoners dug across the width of the altar area in order to dispose of rubble left at the dissolution. Coffins were stripped of lead, and bones were scattered and lost. The prison was demolished between 1846 and 1850. Further excavations in 1866 and 1897 were inconclusive. In 1866, amateur antiquarian John Mellor claimed to have recovered a number of bones from the site which he said were those of Alfred. These later came into the possession of the vicar of nearby St Bartholomew's Church who reburied them in an unmarked grave in the church graveyard.\n\nExcavations conducted by the Winchester Museums Service of the Hyde Abbey site in 1999 located a second pit dug in front of where the high altar would have been located, which was identified as probably dating to Mellor's 1886 excavation. The 1999 archeological excavation uncovered the foundations of the abbey buildings and some bones. Bones suggested at the time to be those of Alfred proved instead to belong to an elderly woman.\n\nIn March 2013, the Diocese of Winchester exhumed the bones from the unmarked grave at St Bartholomew's and placed them in secure storage. The diocese made no claim they were the bones of Alfred, but intended to secure them for later analysis, and from the attentions of people whose interest may have been sparked by the recent identification of the remains of King Richard III. The bones were radiocarbon-dated but the results showed that they were from the 1300s and therefore not of Alfred.\n\nIn January 2014, a fragment of pelvis unearthed in the 1999 excavation of the Hyde site, which had subsequently lain in a Winchester museum store room, was radiocarbon-dated to the correct period. It has been suggested that this bone may belong to either Alfred or his son Edward, but this remains unproven.\n\nAlfred is venerated as a saint by some Christian traditions, An attempt by Henry VI of England in 1441 to have him canonized by the pope was unsuccessful but he is venerated in the Catholic Church. The Anglican Communion venerates him as a Christian hero, with a feast day or commemoration on 26 October, and he may often be found depicted in stained glass in Church of England parish churches.\n\nAlfred commissioned Bishop Asser to write his biography, which inevitably emphasised Alfred's positive aspects. Later medieval historians, such as Geoffrey of Monmouth, also reinforced Alfred's favourable image. By the time of the Reformation Alfred was seen as being a pious Christian ruler who promoted the use of English rather than Latin, and so the translations that he commissioned were viewed as untainted by the later Roman Catholic influences of the Normans. Consequently, it was writers of the sixteenth century who gave Alfred his epithet as 'the Great' rather than any of Alfred's contemporaries. The epithet was retained by succeeding generations of Parliamentarians and empire-builders who saw Alfred's patriotism, success against barbarism, promotion of education and establishment of the rule of law as supporting their own ideals.\n\nA number of educational establishments are named in Alfred's honour. These include:\n\n\nThe Royal Navy has named one ship and two shore establishments HMS \"King Alfred\", and one of the first ships of the US Navy was named USS \"Alfred\" in his honour. In 2002, Alfred was ranked number 14 in the BBC's list of the 100 Greatest Britons following a UK-wide vote.\n\nOne of the first items visible when entering the campus of Alfred University is a bronze statue of the king, created in 1990 by William Underhill. It features the king as a young man, holding a shield in his left hand and an open book in his right.\n\nA prominent statue of King Alfred the Great stands in the middle of Pewsey. It was unveiled in June 1913 to commemorate the coronation of King George V.\n\nA statue of Alfred the Great, situated in the Wantage market place, was sculpted by Count Gleichen, a relative of Queen Victoria, and unveiled on 14 July 1877 by the Prince and Princess of Wales.\nThe statue was vandalised on New Year's Eve 2007, losing part of its right arm and axe. After the arm and axe were replaced the statue was again vandalised on Christmas Eve 2008, losing its axe.\n\nA bronze statue of Alfred the Great stands at the eastern end of The Broadway, close to the site of Winchester's medieval East Gate. The statue was designed by Hamo Thornycroft, and erected in 1899 to mark one thousand years since Alfred's death. The statue is placed on a pedestal consisting of two immense blocks of grey Cornish granite.\n\nA marble statue of Alfred the Great stands on the North side of the Cuyahoga County Courthouse in Cleveland, Ohio. It was sculpted by Isidore Konti in 1910.\n\n\nAttribution:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "175596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175596", "title": "Animal testing", "text": "Animal testing\n\nAnimal testing, also known as animal experimentation, animal research and \"in vivo\" testing, is the use of non-human animals in experiments that seek to control the variables that affect the behavior or biological system under study. This approach can be contrasted with field studies in which animals are observed in their natural environments or habitats. Experimental research with animals is usually conducted in universities, medical schools, pharmaceutical companies, defense establishments and commercial facilities that provide animal-testing services to industry. The focus of animal testing varies on a continuum from pure research, focusing on developing fundamental knowledge of an organism, to applied research, which may focus on answering some question of great practical importance, such as finding a cure for a disease. Examples of applied research include testing disease treatments, breeding, defense research and toxicology, including cosmetics testing. In education, animal testing is sometimes a component of biology or psychology courses. The practice is regulated to varying degrees in different countries.\n\nIt is estimated that the annual use of vertebrate animals—from zebrafish to non-human primates— ranges from tens to more than 100 million. In the European Union, vertebrate species represent 93% of animals used in research, and 11.5 million animals were used there in 2011. By one estimate the number of mice and rats used in the United States alone in 2001 was 80 million. Mice, rats, fish, amphibians and reptiles together account for over 85% of research animals.\n\nMost animals are euthanized after being used in an experiment. Sources of laboratory animals vary between countries and species; most animals are purpose-bred, while a minority are caught in the wild or supplied by dealers who obtain them from auctions and pounds. Supporters of the use of animals in experiments, such as the British Royal Society, argue that virtually every medical achievement in the 20th century relied on the use of animals in some way. The Institute for Laboratory Animal Research of the United States National Academy of Sciences has argued that animal research cannot be replaced by even sophisticated computer models, which are unable to deal with the extremely complex interactions between molecules, cells, tissues, organs, organisms and the environment. Animal rights organizations—such as PETA and BUAV—question the need for and legitimacy of animal testing, arguing that it is cruel and poorly regulated, that medical progress is actually held back by misleading animal models that cannot reliably predict effects in humans, that some of the tests are outdated, that the costs outweigh the benefits, or that animals have the intrinsic right not to be used or harmed in experimentation.\n\nThe terms \"animal testing, animal experimentation, animal research\", \"in vivo\" testing, and vivisection have similar denotations but different connotations. Literally, \"vivisection\" means the \"cutting up\" of a living animal, and historically referred only to experiments that involved the dissection of live animals. The term is occasionally used to refer pejoratively to any experiment using living animals; for example, the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" defines \"vivisection\" as: \"Operation on a living animal for experimental rather than healing purposes; more broadly, all experimentation on live animals\", although dictionaries point out that the broader definition is \"used only by people who are opposed to such work\". The word has a negative connotation, implying torture, suffering, and death. The word \"vivisection\" is preferred by those opposed to this research, whereas scientists typically use the term \"animal experimentation\".\n\nThe earliest references to animal testing are found in the writings of the Greeks in the 2nd and 4th centuries BC. Aristotle and Erasistratus were among the first to perform experiments on living animals. Galen, a 2nd-century Roman physician, dissected pigs and goats; his is known as the \"father of vivisection\". Avenzoar, a 12th-century Arabic physician in Moorish Spain also practiced dissection; he introduced animal testing as an experimental method of testing surgical procedures before applying them to human patients.\n\nAnimals have repeatedly been used through the history of biomedical research. In 1831, the founders of the Dublin Zoo were members of the medical profession who were interested in studying animals while they were alive and when they were dead. In the 1880s, Louis Pasteur convincingly demonstrated the germ theory of medicine by inducing anthrax in sheep. In the 1880s, Robert Koch infected mice and guinea pigs with anthrax and tuberculosis. In the 1890s, Ivan Pavlov famously used dogs to describe classical conditioning. In World War I, German agents infected sheep bound for Russia with anthrax, and inoculated mules and horses of the French cavalry with the equine glanders disease. Between 1917 and 1918, the Germans infected mules in Argentina bound for American forces, resulting in the death of 200 mules. Insulin was first isolated from dogs in 1922, and revolutionized the treatment of diabetes. On 3 November 1957, a Soviet dog, Laika, became the first of many animals to orbit the earth. In the 1970s, antibiotic treatments and vaccines for leprosy were developed using armadillos, then given to humans. The ability of humans to change the genetics of animals took a large step forwards in 1974 when Rudolf Jaenisch was able to produce the first transgenic mammal, by integrating DNA from the SV40 virus into the genome of mice. This genetic research progressed rapidly and, in 1996, Dolly the sheep was born, the first mammal to be cloned from an adult cell.\n\nToxicology testing became important in the 20th century. In the 19th century, laws regulating drugs were more relaxed. For example, in the U.S., the government could only ban a drug after a company had been prosecuted for selling products that harmed customers. However, in response to the Elixir Sulfanilamide disaster of 1937 in which the eponymous drug killed more than 100 users, the U.S. congress passed laws that required safety testing of drugs on animals before they could be marketed. Other countries enacted similar legislation. In the 1960s, in reaction to the Thalidomide tragedy, further laws were passed requiring safety testing on pregnant animals before a drug can be sold.\n\nAs the experimentation on animals increased, especially the practice of vivisection, so did criticism and controversy. In 1655, the advocate of Galenic physiology Edmund O'Meara said that \"the miserable torture of vivisection places the body in an unnatural state\". O'Meara and others argued that animal physiology could be affected by pain during vivisection, rendering results unreliable. There were also objections on an ethical basis, contending that the benefit to humans did not justify the harm to animals. Early objections to animal testing also came from another angle—many people believed that animals were inferior to humans and so different that results from animals could not be applied to humans.\n\nOn the other side of the debate, those in favor of animal testing held that experiments on animals were necessary to advance medical and biological knowledge. Claude Bernard—who is sometimes known as the \"prince of vivisectors\" and the father of physiology, and whose wife, Marie Françoise Martin, founded the first anti-vivisection society in France in 1883—famously wrote in 1865 that \"the science of life is a superb and dazzlingly lighted hall which may be reached only by passing through a long and ghastly kitchen\". Arguing that \"experiments on animals ... are entirely conclusive for the toxicology and hygiene of man...the effects of these substances are the same on man as on animals, save for differences in degree\", Bernard established animal experimentation as part of the standard scientific method.\n\nIn 1896, the physiologist and physician Dr. Walter B. Cannon said \"The antivivisectionists are the second of the two types Theodore Roosevelt described when he said, 'Common sense without conscience may lead to crime, but conscience without common sense may lead to folly, which is the handmaiden of crime. These divisions between pro- and anti-animal testing groups first came to public attention during the Brown Dog affair in the early 1900s, when hundreds of medical students clashed with anti-vivisectionists and police over a memorial to a vivisected dog.\nIn 1822, the first animal protection law was enacted in the British parliament, followed by the Cruelty to Animals Act (1876), the first law specifically aimed at regulating animal testing. The legislation was promoted by Charles Darwin, who wrote to Ray Lankester in March 1871: \"You ask about my opinion on vivisection. I quite agree that it is justifiable for real investigations on physiology; but not for mere damnable and detestable curiosity. It is a subject which makes me sick with horror, so I will not say another word about it, else I shall not sleep to-night.\" In response to the lobbying by anti-vivisectionists, several organizations were set up in Britain to defend animal research: The Physiological Society was formed in 1876 to give physiologists \"mutual benefit and protection\", the Association for the Advancement of Medicine by Research was formed in 1882 and focused on policy-making, and the Research Defence Society (now Understanding Animal Research) was formed in 1908 \"to make known the facts as to experiments on animals in this country; the immense importance to the welfare of mankind of such experiments and the great saving of human life and health directly attributable to them\".\n\nOpposition to the use of animals in medical research first arose in the United States during the 1860s, when Henry Bergh founded the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), with America's first specifically anti-vivisection organization being the American AntiVivisection Society (AAVS), founded in 1883. Antivivisectionists of the era generally believed the spread of mercy was the great cause of civilization, and vivisection was cruel. However, in the USA the antivivisectionists' efforts were defeated in every legislature, overwhelmed by the superior organization and influence of the medical community. Overall, this movement had little legislative success until the passing of the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act, in 1966.\n\nThe regulations that apply to animals in laboratories vary across species. In the U.S., under the provisions of the Animal Welfare Act and the \"Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals\" (the \"Guide\"), published by the National Academy of Sciences, any procedure can be performed on an animal if it can be successfully argued that it is scientifically justified. In general, researchers are required to consult with the institution's veterinarian and its Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC), which every research facility is obliged to maintain. The IACUC must ensure that alternatives, including non-animal alternatives, have been considered, that the experiments are not unnecessarily duplicative, and that pain relief is given unless it would interfere with the study. The IACUCs regulate all vertebrates in testing at institutions receiving federal funds in the USA. Although the provisions of the Animal Welfare Act do not include purpose-bred rodents and birds, these species are equally regulated under Public Health Service policies that govern the IACUCs. The Public Health Service policy oversees the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The CDC conducts infectious disease research on nonhuman primates, rabbits, mice, and other animals, while FDA requirements cover use of animals in pharmaceutical research. Animal Welfare Act (AWA) regulations are enforced by the USDA, whereas Public Health Service regulations are enforced by OLAW and in many cases by AAALAC.\n\nAccording to the 2014 U.S. Department of Agriculture Office of the Inspector General (OIG) report—which looked at the oversight of animal use during a three-year period—\"some Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees ...did not adequately approve, monitor, or report on experimental procedures on animals\". The OIG found that \"as a result, animals are not always receiving basic humane care and treatment and, in some cases, pain and distress are not minimized during and after experimental procedures\". According to the report, within a three-year period, nearly half of all American laboratories with regulated species were cited for AWA violations relating to improper IACUC oversight. The USDA OIG made similar findings in a 2005 report. With only a broad number of 120 inspectors, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) oversees more than 12,000 facilities involved in research, exhibition, breeding, or dealing of animals. Others have criticized the composition of IACUCs, asserting that the committees are predominantly made up of animal researchers and university representatives who may be biased against animal welfare concerns.\n\nLarry Carbone, a laboratory animal veterinarian, writes that, in his experience, IACUCs take their work very seriously regardless of the species involved, though the use of non-human primates always raises what he calls a \"red flag of special concern\". A study published in \"Science\" magazine in July 2001 confirmed the low reliability of IACUC reviews of animal experiments. Funded by the National Science Foundation, the three-year study found that animal-use committees that do not know the specifics of the university and personnel do not make the same approval decisions as those made by animal-use committees that do know the university and personnel. Specifically, blinded committees more often ask for more information rather than approving studies.\n\nScientists in India are protesting a recent guideline issued by the University Grants Commission to ban the use of live animals in universities and laboratories.\n\nAccurate global figures for animal testing are difficult to obtain; it has been estimated that 100 million vertebrates are experimented on around the world every year, 10–11 million of them in the EU. The Nuffield Council on Bioethics reports that global annual estimates range from 50 to 100 million animals. None of the figures include invertebrates such as shrimp and fruit flies.\n\nThe USDA/APHIS has published the 2016 animal research statistics. Overall, the number of animals (covered by the Animal Welfare Act) used in research in the US rose 6.9% from 767,622 (2015) to 820,812 (2016). This includes both public and private institutions.By comparing with EU data, where all vertebrate species are counted, Speaking of Research estimated that around 12 million vertebrates were used in research in the US in 2016. A 2015 article published in the \"Journal of Medical Ethics\", argued that the use of animals in the US has dramatically increased in recent years. Researchers found this increase is largely the result of an increased reliance on genetically modified mice in animal studies.\n\nIn 1995, researchers at Tufts University Center for Animals and Public Policy estimated that 14–21 million animals were used in American laboratories in 1992, a reduction from a high of 50 million used in 1970. In 1986, the U.S. Congress Office of Technology Assessment reported that estimates of the animals used in the U.S. range from 10 million to upwards of 100 million each year, and that their own best estimate was at least 17 million to 22 million. In 2016, the Department of Agriculture listed 60,979 dogs, 18,898 cats, 71,188 non-human primates, 183,237 guinea pigs, 102,633 hamsters, 139,391 rabbits, 83,059 farm animals, and 161,467 other mammals, a total of 820,812, a figure that includes all mammals except purpose-bred mice and rats. The use of dogs and cats in research in the U.S. decreased from 1973 to 2016 from 195,157 to 60,979, and from 66,165 to 18,898, respectively.\n\nIn GB, Home Office figures show that 3.79 million procedures were carried out in 2017. 2,960 procedures used non-human primates, down over 50% since 1988. A \"procedure\" refers here to an experiment that might last minutes, several months, or years. Most animals are used in only one procedure: animals are frequently euthanized after the experiment; however death is the endpoint of some procedures.\nThe procedures conducted on animals in GB in 2017 were categorised as –\nA ‘severe’ procedure would be, for instance, any test where death is the end-point or fatalities are expected, whereas a ‘mild’ procedure would be something like a blood test or an MRI scan.\n\nThe Three R's (3R's) are guiding principles for more ethical use of animals in testing. These were first described by W.M.S. Russell and R.L. Burch in 1959. The 3R's state: \nThe 3R's have a broader scope than simply encouraging alternatives to animal testing, but aim to improve animal welfare and scientific quality where the use of animals can not be avoided. These 3R's are now implemented in many testing establishments worldwide and have been adopted by various pieces of legislation and regulations.\n\nDespite the widespread acceptance of the 3R's, many countries—including Canada, Australia, Israel, South Korea, and Germany—have reported rising experimental use of animals in recent years with increased use of mice and, in some cases, fish while reporting declines in the use of cats, dogs, primates, rabbits, guinea pigs, and hamsters. Along with other countries, China has also escalated its use of GM animals, resulting in an increase in overall animal use.\n\nAlthough many more invertebrates than vertebrates are used in animal testing, these studies are largely unregulated by law. The most frequently used invertebrate species are \"Drosophila melanogaster\", a fruit fly, and \"Caenorhabditis elegans\", a nematode worm. In the case of \"C. elegans\", the worm's body is completely transparent and the precise lineage of all the organism's cells is known, while studies in the fly \"D. melanogaster\" can use an amazing array of genetic tools. These invertebrates offer some advantages over vertebrates in animal testing, including their short life cycle and the ease with which large numbers may be housed and studied. However, the lack of an adaptive immune system and their simple organs prevent worms from being used in several aspects of medical research such as vaccine development. Similarly, the fruit fly immune system differs greatly from that of humans, and diseases in insects can be different from diseases in vertebrates; however, fruit flies and waxworms can be useful in studies to identify novel virulence factors or pharmacologically active compounds.\n\nSeveral invertebrate systems are considered acceptable alternatives to vertebrates in early-stage discovery screens. Because of similarities between the innate immune system of insects and mammals, insects can replace mammals in some types of studies. \"Drosophila melanogaster\" and the \"Galleria mellonella\" waxworm have been particularly important for analysis of virulence traits of mammalian pathogens. Waxworms and other insects have also proven valuable for the identification of pharmaceutical compounds with favorable bioavailability. The decision to adopt such models generally involves accepting a lower degree of biological similarity with mammals for significant gains in experimental throughput.\n\nIn the U.S., the numbers of rats and mice used is estimated to be from 11 million to between 20 and 100 million a year. Other rodents commonly used are guinea pigs, hamsters, and gerbils. Mice are the most commonly used vertebrate species because of their size, low cost, ease of handling, and fast reproduction rate. Mice are widely considered to be the best model of inherited human disease and share 99% of their genes with humans. With the advent of genetic engineering technology, genetically modified mice can be generated to order and can provide models for a range of human diseases. Rats are also widely used for physiology, toxicology and cancer research, but genetic manipulation is much harder in rats than in mice, which limits the use of these rodents in basic science. Over 500,000 fish and 9,000 amphibians were used in the UK in 2016. The main species used is the zebrafish, \"Danio rerio\", which are translucent during their embryonic stage, and the African clawed frog, \"Xenopus laevis\". Over 20,000 rabbits were used for animal testing in the UK in 2004. Albino rabbits are used in eye irritancy tests (Draize test) because rabbits have less tear flow than other animals, and the lack of eye pigment in albinos make the effects easier to visualize. The numbers of rabbits used for this purpose has fallen substantially over the past two decades. In 1996, there were 3,693 procedures on rabbits for eye irritation in the UK, and in 2017 this number was just 63. Rabbits are also frequently used for the production of polyclonal antibodies.\n\nCats are most commonly used in neurological research. 18,898 cats were used in the U.S. in 2016, around a third of which were used in experiments which have the potential to cause \"pain and/or distress\" though only 0.1% of cat experiments involved potential pain which was not relieved by anesthetics/analgesics. In the UK, just 198 procedures were carried out on cats in 2017. The number has been around 200 for most of the last decade.\n\nDogs are widely used in biomedical research, testing, and education—particularly beagles, because they are gentle and easy to handle, and to allow for comparisons with historical data from beagles (a Reduction technique). They are used as models for human and veterinary diseases in cardiology, endocrinology, and bone and joint studies, research that tends to be highly invasive, according to the Humane Society of the United States. The most common use of dogs is in the safety assessment of new medicines for human or veterinary use as a second species following testing in rodents, in accordance with the regulations set out in the International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal Welfare Report shows that 60,979 dogs were used in USDA-registered facilities in 2016. In the UK, according to the UK Home Office, there were 3,847 procedures on dogs in 2017. Of the other large EU users of dogs, Germany conducted 3,976 procedures on dogs in 2016 and France conducted 4,204 procedures in 2016. In both cases this represents under 0.2% of the total number of procedures conducted on animals in the respective countries.\n\nNon-human primates (NHPs) are used in toxicology tests, studies of AIDS and hepatitis, studies of neurology, behavior and cognition, reproduction, genetics, and xenotransplantation. They are caught in the wild or purpose-bred. In the United States and China, most primates are domestically purpose-bred, whereas in Europe the majority are imported purpose-bred. The European Commission reported that in 2011, 6,012 monkeys were experimented on in European laboratories. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, there were 71,188 monkeys in U.S. laboratories in 2016. 23,465 monkeys were imported into the U.S. in 2014 including 929 who were caught in the wild. Most of the NHPs used in experiments are macaques; but marmosets, spider monkeys, and squirrel monkeys are also used, and baboons and chimpanzees are used in the US. As of 2015, there are approximately 730 chimpanzees in U.S. laboratories.\n\nIn a survey in 2003, it was found that 89% of singly-housed primates exhibited self-injurious or abnormal stereotypyical behaviors including pacing, rocking, hair pulling, and biting among others.\n\nThe first transgenic primate was produced in 2001, with the development of a method that could introduce new genes into a rhesus macaque. This transgenic technology is now being applied in the search for a treatment for the genetic disorder Huntington's disease. Notable studies on non-human primates have been part of the polio vaccine development, and development of Deep Brain Stimulation, and their current heaviest non-toxicological use occurs in the monkey AIDS model, SIV. In 2008 a proposal to ban all primates experiments in the EU has sparked a vigorous debate.\n\nAnimals used by laboratories are largely supplied by specialist dealers. Sources differ for vertebrate and invertebrate animals. Most laboratories breed and raise flies and worms themselves, using strains and mutants supplied from a few main stock centers. For vertebrates, sources include breeders and dealers like Covance and Charles River Laboratories who supply purpose-bred and wild-caught animals; businesses that trade in wild animals such as Nafovanny; and dealers who supply animals sourced from pounds, auctions, and newspaper ads. Animal shelters also supply the laboratories directly. Large centers also exist to distribute strains of genetically modified animals; the International Knockout Mouse Consortium, for example, aims to provide knockout mice for every gene in the mouse genome.\n\nIn the U.S., Class A breeders are licensed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to sell animals for research purposes, while Class B dealers are licensed to buy animals from \"random sources\" such as auctions, pound seizure, and newspaper ads. Some Class B dealers have been accused of kidnapping pets and illegally trapping strays, a practice known as \"bunching\". It was in part out of public concern over the sale of pets to research facilities that the 1966 Laboratory Animal Welfare Act was ushered in—the Senate Committee on Commerce reported in 1966 that stolen pets had been retrieved from Veterans Administration facilities, the Mayo Institute, the University of Pennsylvania, Stanford University, and Harvard and Yale Medical Schools. The USDA recovered at least a dozen stolen pets during a raid on a Class B dealer in Arkansas in 2003.\n\nFour states in the U.S.—Minnesota, Utah, Oklahoma, and Iowa—require their shelters to provide animals to research facilities. Fourteen states explicitly prohibit the practice, while the remainder either allow it or have no relevant legislation.\n\nIn the European Union, animal sources are governed by \"Council Directive 86/609/EEC\", which requires lab animals to be specially bred, unless the animal has been lawfully imported and is not a wild animal or a stray. The latter requirement may also be exempted by special arrangement. In 2010 the Directive was revised with EU Directive 2010/63/EU. In the UK, most animals used in experiments are bred for the purpose under the 1988 Animal Protection Act, but wild-caught primates may be used if exceptional and specific justification can be established. The United States also allows the use of wild-caught primates; between 1995 and 1999, 1,580 wild baboons were imported into the U.S. Over half the primates imported between 1995 and 2000 were handled by Charles River Laboratories, or by Covance, which is the single largest importer of primates into the U.S.\n\nThe extent to which animal testing causes pain and suffering, and the capacity of animals to experience and comprehend them, is the subject of much debate.\n\nAccording to the USDA, in 2016 501,560 animals (61%) (not including rats, mice, birds, or invertebrates) were used in procedures that did not include more than momentary pain or distress. 247,882 (31%) animals were used in procedures in which pain or distress was relieved by anesthesia, while 71,370 (9%) were used in studies that would cause pain or distress that would not be relieved.\n\nSince 2014, in the UK, every research procedure was retrospectively assessed for severity. The five categories are \"sub-threshold\", \"mild\", \"moderate\", \"severe\" and \"non-recovery\", the latter being procedures in which an animal is anesthetized and subsequently killed without recovering consciousness. In 2017, 43% (1.61 million) were assessed as sub-threshold, 4% (0.14 million) were assessed as non-recovery, 36% (1.35 million) were assessed as mild, 15% (0.55 million) were assessed as moderate and 4% (0.14 million) were assessed as severe.\n\nThe idea that animals might not feel pain as human beings feel it traces back to the 17th-century French philosopher, René Descartes, who argued that animals do not experience pain and suffering because they lack consciousness. Bernard Rollin of Colorado State University, the principal author of two U.S. federal laws regulating pain relief for animals, writes that researchers remained unsure into the 1980s as to whether animals experience pain, and that veterinarians trained in the U.S. before 1989 were simply taught to ignore animal pain. In his interactions with scientists and other veterinarians, he was regularly asked to \"prove\" that animals are conscious, and to provide \"scientifically acceptable\" grounds for claiming that they feel pain. Carbone writes that the view that animals feel pain differently is now a minority view. Academic reviews of the topic are more equivocal, noting that although the argument that animals have at least simple conscious thoughts and feelings has strong support, some critics continue to question how reliably animal mental states can be determined. However, some canine experts are stating that, while intelligence does differ animal to animal, dogs have the intelligence of a two to two-and-a-half year old. This does support the idea that dogs, at the very least, have some form of consciousness. The ability of invertebrates to experience pain and suffering is less clear, however, legislation in several countries (e.g. U.K., New Zealand, Norway) protects some invertebrate species if they are being used in animal testing.\n\nIn the U.S., the defining text on animal welfare regulation in animal testing is the \"Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals\". This defines the parameters that govern animal testing in the U.S. It states \"The ability to experience and respond to pain is widespread in the animal kingdom...Pain is a stressor and, if not relieved, can lead to unacceptable levels of stress and distress in animals.\" The Guide states that the ability to recognize the symptoms of pain in different species is vital in efficiently applying pain relief and that it is essential for the people caring for and using animals to be entirely familiar with these symptoms. On the subject of analgesics used to relieve pain, the Guide states \"The selection of the most appropriate analgesic or anesthetic should reflect professional judgment as to which best meets clinical and humane requirements without compromising the scientific aspects of the research protocol\". Accordingly, all issues of animal pain and distress, and their potential treatment with analgesia and anesthesia, are required regulatory issues in receiving animal protocol approval.\n\nRegulations require that scientists use as few animals as possible, especially for terminal experiments. However, while policy makers consider suffering to be the central issue and see animal euthanasia as a way to reduce suffering, others, such as the RSPCA, argue that the lives of laboratory animals have intrinsic value. Regulations focus on whether particular methods cause pain and suffering, not whether their death is undesirable in itself. The animals are euthanized at the end of studies for sample collection or post-mortem examination; during studies if their pain or suffering falls into certain categories regarded as unacceptable, such as depression, infection that is unresponsive to treatment, or the failure of large animals to eat for five days; or when they are unsuitable for breeding or unwanted for some other reason.\n\nMethods of euthanizing laboratory animals are chosen to induce rapid unconsciousness and death without pain or distress. The methods that are preferred are those published by councils of veterinarians. The animal can be made to inhale a gas, such as carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide, by being placed in a chamber, or by use of a face mask, with or without prior sedation or anesthesia. Sedatives or anesthetics such as barbiturates can be given intravenously, or inhalant anesthetics may be used. Amphibians and fish may be immersed in water containing an anesthetic such as tricaine. Physical methods are also used, with or without sedation or anesthesia depending on the method. Recommended methods include decapitation (beheading) for small rodents or rabbits. Cervical dislocation (breaking the neck or spine) may be used for birds, mice, and immature rats and rabbits. Maceration (grinding into small pieces) is used on 1 day old chicks. High-intensity microwave irradiation of the brain can preserve brain tissue and induce death in less than 1 second, but this is currently only used on rodents. Captive bolts may be used, typically on dogs, ruminants, horses, pigs and rabbits. It causes death by a concussion to the brain. Gunshot may be used, but only in cases where a penetrating captive bolt may not be used. Some physical methods are only acceptable after the animal is unconscious. Electrocution may be used for cattle, sheep, swine, foxes, and mink after the animals are unconscious, often by a prior electrical stun. Pithing (inserting a tool into the base of the brain) is usable on animals already unconscious. Slow or rapid freezing, or inducing air embolism are acceptable only with prior anesthesia to induce unconsciousness.\n\nBasic or pure research investigates how organisms behave, develop, and function. Those opposed to animal testing object that pure research may have little or no practical purpose, but researchers argue that it forms the necessary basis for the development of applied research, rendering the distinction between pure and applied research—research that has a specific practical aim—unclear. Pure research uses larger numbers and a greater variety of animals than applied research. Fruit flies, nematode worms, mice and rats together account for the vast majority, though small numbers of other species are used, ranging from sea slugs through to armadillos. Examples of the types of animals and experiments used in basic research include:\n\nApplied research aims to solve specific and practical problems. These may involve the use of animal models of diseases or conditions, which are often discovered or generated by pure research programmes. In turn, such applied studies may be an early stage in the drug discovery process. Examples include:\n\n\nXenotransplantation research involves transplanting tissues or organs from one species to another, as a way to overcome the shortage of human organs for use in organ transplants. Current research involves using primates as the recipients of organs from pigs that have been genetically modified to reduce the primates' immune response against the pig tissue. Although transplant rejection remains a problem, recent clinical trials that involved implanting pig insulin-secreting cells into diabetics did reduce these people's need for insulin.\n\nDocuments released to the news media by the animal rights organization Uncaged Campaigns showed that, between 1994 and 2000, wild baboons imported to the UK from Africa by Imutran Ltd, a subsidiary of Novartis Pharma AG, in conjunction with Cambridge University and Huntingdon Life Sciences, to be used in experiments that involved grafting pig tissues, suffered serious and sometimes fatal injuries. A scandal occurred when it was revealed that the company had communicated with the British government in an attempt to avoid regulation.\n\nToxicology testing, also known as safety testing, is conducted by pharmaceutical companies testing drugs, or by contract animal testing facilities, such as Huntingdon Life Sciences, on behalf of a wide variety of customers. According to 2005 EU figures, around one million animals are used every year in Europe in toxicology tests; which are about 10% of all procedures. According to \"Nature\", 5,000 animals are used for each chemical being tested, with 12,000 needed to test pesticides. The tests are conducted without anesthesia, because interactions between drugs can affect how animals detoxify chemicals, and may interfere with the results.\n\nToxicology tests are used to examine finished products such as pesticides, medications, food additives, packing materials, and air freshener, or their chemical ingredients. Most tests involve testing ingredients rather than finished products, but according to BUAV, manufacturers believe these tests overestimate the toxic effects of substances; they therefore repeat the tests using their finished products to obtain a less toxic label.\n\nThe substances are applied to the skin or dripped into the eyes; injected intravenously, intramuscularly, or subcutaneously; inhaled either by placing a mask over the animals and restraining them, or by placing them in an inhalation chamber; or administered orally, through a tube into the stomach, or simply in the animal's food. Doses may be given once, repeated regularly for many months, or for the lifespan of the animal.\n\nThere are several different types of acute toxicity tests. The (\"Lethal Dose 50%\") test is used to evaluate the toxicity of a substance by determining the dose required to kill 50% of the test animal population. This test was removed from OECD international guidelines in 2002, replaced by methods such as the fixed dose procedure, which use fewer animals and cause less suffering. Abbott writes that, as of 2005, \"the LD50 acute toxicity test ... still accounts for one-third of all animal [toxicity] tests worldwide\".\n\nIrritancy can be measured using the Draize test, where a test substance is applied to an animal's eyes or skin, usually an albino rabbit. For Draize eye testing, the test involves observing the effects of the substance at intervals and grading any damage or irritation, but the test should be halted and the animal killed if it shows \"continuing signs of severe pain or distress\". The Humane Society of the United States writes that the procedure can cause redness, ulceration, hemorrhaging, cloudiness, or even blindness. This test has also been criticized by scientists for being cruel and inaccurate, subjective, over-sensitive, and failing to reflect human exposures in the real world. Although no accepted \"in vitro\" alternatives exist, a modified form of the Draize test called the \"low volume eye test\" may reduce suffering and provide more realistic results and this was adopted as the new standard in September 2009. However, the Draize test will still be used for substances that are not severe irritants.\n\nThe most stringent tests are reserved for drugs and foodstuffs. For these, a number of tests are performed, lasting less than a month (acute), one to three months (subchronic), and more than three months (chronic) to test general toxicity (damage to organs), eye and skin irritancy, mutagenicity, carcinogenicity, teratogenicity, and reproductive problems. The cost of the full complement of tests is several million dollars per substance and it may take three or four years to complete.\n\nThese toxicity tests provide, in the words of a 2006 United States National Academy of Sciences report, \"critical information for assessing hazard and risk potential\". Animal tests may overestimate risk, with false positive results being a particular problem, but false positives appear not to be prohibitively common. Variability in results arises from using the effects of high doses of chemicals in small numbers of laboratory animals to try to predict the effects of low doses in large numbers of humans. Although relationships do exist, opinion is divided on how to use data on one species to predict the exact level of risk in another.\n\nScientists face growing pressure to move away from using traditional animal toxicity tests to determine whether manufactured chemicals are safe. \nAmong variety of approaches to toxicity evaluation the ones which have attracted increasing interests are in vitro cell-based sensing methods applying fluorescence.\n\nCosmetics testing on animals is particularly controversial. Such tests, which are still conducted in the U.S., involve general toxicity, eye and skin irritancy, phototoxicity (toxicity triggered by ultraviolet light) and mutagenicity.\n\nCosmetics testing on animals is banned in India, the European Union, Israel and Norway while legislation in the U.S. and Brazil is currently considering similar bans. In 2002, after 13 years of discussion, the European Union agreed to phase in a near-total ban on the sale of animal-tested cosmetics by 2009, and to ban all cosmetics-related animal testing. France, which is home to the world's largest cosmetics company, L'Oreal, has protested the proposed ban by lodging a case at the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, asking that the ban be quashed. The ban is also opposed by the European Federation for Cosmetics Ingredients, which represents 70 companies in Switzerland, Belgium, France, Germany, and Italy. In October 2014, India passed stricter laws that also ban the importation of any cosmetic products that are tested on animals.\n\nBefore the early 20th century, laws regulating drugs were lax. Currently, all new pharmaceuticals undergo rigorous animal testing before being licensed for human use. Tests on pharmaceutical products involve:\n\nIt is estimated that 20 million animals are used annually for educational purposes in the United States including, classroom observational exercises, dissections and live-animal surgeries. Frogs, fetal pigs, perch, cats, earthworms, grasshoppers, crayfish and starfish are commonly used in classroom dissections. Alternatives to the use of animals in classroom dissections are widely used, with many U.S. States and school districts mandating students be offered the choice to not dissect. Citing the wide availability of alternatives and the decimation of local frog species, India banned dissections in 2014.\n\nThe Sonoran Arthropod Institute hosts an annual Invertebrates in Education and Conservation Conference to discuss the use of invertebrates in education. There also are efforts in many countries to find alternatives to using animals in education. The NORINA database, maintained by Norecopa, lists products that may be used as alternatives or supplements to animal use in education, and in the training of personnel who work with animals. These include alternatives to dissection in schools. InterNICHE has a similar database and a loans system.\n\nIn November 2013, the U.S.-based company Backyard Brains released for sale to the public what they call the \"Roboroach\", an \"electronic backpack\" that can be attached to cockroaches. The operator is required to amputate a cockroach's antennae, use sandpaper to wear down the shell, insert a wire into the thorax, and then glue the electrodes and circuit board onto the insect's back. A mobile phone app can then be used to control it via Bluetooth. It has been suggested that the use of such a device may be a teaching aid that can promote interest in science. The makers of the \"Roboroach\" have been funded by the National Institute of Mental Health and state that the device is intended to encourage children to become interested in neuroscience.\n\nAnimals are used by the military to develop weapons, vaccines, battlefield surgical techniques, and defensive clothing. For example, in 2008 the United States Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency used live pigs to study the effects of improvised explosive device explosions on internal organs, especially the brain.\n\nIn the US military, goats are commonly used to train combat medics. (Goats have become the main animal species used for this purpose after the Pentagon phased out using dogs for medical training in the 1980s.) While modern mannequins used in medical training are quite efficient in simulating the behavior of a human body, some trainees feel that \"the goat exercise provide[s] a sense of urgency that only real life trauma can provide\". Nevertheless, in 2014, the U.S. Coast Guard announced that it would reduce the number of animals it uses in its training exercises by half after PETA released video showing Guard members cutting off the limbs of unconscious goats with tree trimmers and inflicting other injuries with a shotgun, pistol, ax and a scalpel. That same year, citing the availability of human simulators and other alternatives, the Department of Defense announced it would begin reducing the number of animals it uses in various training programs. In 2013, several Navy medical centers stopped using ferrets in intubation exercises after complaints from PETA.\n\nBesides the United States, six out of 28 NATO countries, including Poland and Denmark, use live animals for combat medic training.\n\nThe moral and ethical questions raised by performing experiments on animals are subject to debate, and viewpoints have shifted significantly over the 20th century. There remain disagreements about which procedures are useful for which purposes, as well as disagreements over which ethical principles apply to which species.\n\nA 2015 Gallup poll found that 67% of Americans were \"very concerned\" or \"somewhat concerned\" about animals used in research. A Pew poll taken the same year found 50% of American adults opposed the use of animals in research.\n\nStill, a wide range of viewpoints exist. The view that animals have moral rights (animal rights) is a philosophical position proposed by Tom Regan, among others, who argues that animals are beings with beliefs and desires, and as such are the \"subjects of a life\" with moral value and therefore moral rights. Regan still sees ethical differences between killing human and non-human animals, and argues that to save the former it is permissible to kill the latter. Likewise, a \"moral dilemma\" view suggests that avoiding potential benefit to humans is unacceptable on similar grounds, and holds the issue to be a dilemma in balancing such harm to humans to the harm done to animals in research. In contrast, an abolitionist view in animal rights holds that there is no moral justification for any harmful research on animals that is not to the benefit of the individual animal. Bernard Rollin argues that benefits to human beings cannot outweigh animal suffering, and that human beings have no moral right to use an animal in ways that do not benefit that individual. Another prominent position is that of philosopher Peter Singer, who argues that there are no grounds to include a being's species in considerations of whether their suffering is important in utilitarian moral considerations. Malcolm Macleod and collaborators argue that most controlled animal studies do not employ randomization, allocation concealment, and blinding outcome assessment, and that failure to employ these features exaggerates the apparent benefit of drugs tested in animals, leading to a failure to translate much animal research for human benefit.\n\nGovernments such as the Netherlands and New Zealand have responded to the public's concerns by outlawing invasive experiments on certain classes of non-human primates, particularly the great apes. In 2015, captive chimpanzees in the U.S. were added to the Endangered Species Act adding new road blocks to those wishing to experiment on them. Similarly, citing ethical considerations and the availability of alternative research methods, the U.S. NIH announced in 2013 that it would dramatically reduce and eventually phase out experiments on chimpanzees.\n\nThe British government has required that the cost to animals in an experiment be weighed against the gain in knowledge. Some medical schools and agencies in China, Japan, and South Korea have built cenotaphs for killed animals. In Japan there are also annual memorial services (\"Ireisai\" 慰霊祭) for animals sacrificed at medical school.\nVarious specific cases of animal testing have drawn attention, including both instances of beneficial scientific research, and instances of alleged ethical violations by those performing the tests. The fundamental properties of muscle physiology were determined with work done using frog muscles (including the force generating mechanism of all muscle, the length-tension relationship, and the force-velocity curve), and frogs are still the preferred model organism due to the long survival of muscles \"in vitro\" and the possibility of isolating intact single-fiber preparations (not possible in other organisms). Modern physical therapy and the understanding and treatment of muscular disorders is based on this work and subsequent work in mice (often engineered to express disease states such as muscular dystrophy). In February 1997 a team at the Roslin Institute in Scotland announced the birth of Dolly the sheep, the first mammal to be cloned from an adult somatic cell.\n\nConcerns have been raised over the mistreatment of primates undergoing testing. In 1985 the case of Britches, a macaque monkey at the University of California, Riverside, gained public attention. He had his eyelids sewn shut and a sonar sensor on his head as part of an experiment to test sensory substitution devices for blind people. The laboratory was raided by Animal Liberation Front in 1985, removing Britches and 466 other animals. The National Institutes of Health conducted an eight-month investigation and concluded, however, that no corrective action was necessary. During the 2000s other cases have made headlines, including experiments at the University of Cambridge and Columbia University in 2002. In 2004 and 2005, undercover footage of staff of Covance's, a contract research organization that provides animal testing services, Virginia lab was shot by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). Following release of the footage, the U.S. Department of Agriculture fined Covance $8,720 for 16 citations, three of which involved lab monkeys; the other citations involved administrative issues and equipment.\n\nThreats of violence to animal researchers are not uncommon.\n\nIn 2006, a primate researcher at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) shut down the experiments in his lab after threats from animal rights activists. The researcher had received a grant to use 30 macaque monkeys for vision experiments; each monkey was anesthetized for a single physiological experiment lasting up to 120 hours, and then euthanized. The researcher's name, phone number, and address were posted on the website of the Primate Freedom Project. Demonstrations were held in front of his home. A Molotov cocktail was placed on the porch of what was believed to be the home of another UCLA primate researcher; instead, it was accidentally left on the porch of an elderly woman unrelated to the university. The Animal Liberation Front claimed responsibility for the attack. As a result of the campaign, the researcher sent an email to the Primate Freedom Project stating \"you win\", and \"please don't bother my family anymore\". In another incident at UCLA in June 2007, the Animal Liberation Brigade placed a bomb under the car of a UCLA children's ophthalmologist who experiments on cats and rhesus monkeys; the bomb had a faulty fuse and did not detonate.\n\nIn 1997 PETA filmed staff from Huntingdon Life Sciences, showing dogs being mistreated. The employees responsible were dismissed, with two given community service orders and ordered to pay £250 costs, the first lab technicians to have been prosecuted for animal cruelty in the UK. The Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty campaign used tactics ranging from non-violent protest to the alleged firebombing of houses owned by executives associated with HLS's clients and investors. The Southern Poverty Law Center, which monitors US domestic extremism, has described SHAC's \"modus operandi\" as \"frankly terroristic tactics similar to those of anti-abortion extremists,\" and in 2005 an official with the FBI's counter-terrorism division referred to SHAC's activities in the United States as domestic terrorist threats. 13 members of SHAC were jailed for between 15 months and eleven years on charges of conspiracy to blackmail or harm HLS and its suppliers.\n\nThese attacks—as well as similar incidents that caused the Southern Poverty Law Center to declare in 2002 that the animal rights movement had \"clearly taken a turn toward the more extreme\"—prompted the US government to pass the Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act and the UK government to add the offense of \"Intimidation of persons connected with animal research organisation\" to the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005. Such legislation and the arrest and imprisonment of activists may have decreased the incidence of attacks.\n\nMost scientists and governments state that animal testing should cause as little suffering to animals as possible, and that animal tests should only be performed where necessary. The \"Three Rs\" are guiding principles for the use of animals in research in most countries. Whilst replacement of animals, i.e. alternatives to animal testing, is one of the principles, their scope is much broader. Although such principles have been welcomed as a step forwards by some animal welfare groups, they have also been criticized as both outdated by current research, and of little practical effect in improving animal welfare.\n\nThe scientists and engineers at Harvard's Wyss Institute have created \"organs-on-a-chip\", including the \"lung-on-a-chip\" and \"gut-on-a-chip\". These tiny devices contain human cells in a 3-dimensional system that mimics human organs. The chips can be used instead of animals in \"in vitro\" disease research, drug testing, and toxicity testing. Researchers have also begun using 3-D bioprinters to create human tissues for \"in vitro\" testing.\n\nAnother non-animal research method is \"in silico\" or computer simulation and mathematical modeling which seeks to investigate and ultimately predict toxicity and drug affects in humans without using animals. This is done by investigating test compounds on a molecular level using recent advances in technological capabilities with the ultimate goal of creating treatments unique to each patient.\n\nMicrodosing is another alternative to the use of animals in experimentation. Microdosing is a process whereby volunteers are administered a small dose of a test compound allowing researchers to investigate its pharmacological affects without harming the volunteers. Microdosing can replace the use of animals in pre-clinical drug screening and can reduce the number of animals used in safety and toxicity testing.\n\nAdditional alternative methods include positron emission tomography (PET), which allows scanning of the human brain \"in vivo\", and comparative epidemiological studies of disease risk factors among human populations.\n\nSimulators and computer programs have also replaced the use of animals in dissection, teaching and training exercises.\n\nOfficial bodies such as the European Centre for the Validation of Alternative Test Methods of the European Commission, the Interagency Coordinating Committee for the Validation of Alternative Methods in the US, ZEBET in Germany, and the Japanese Center for the Validation of Alternative Methods (among others) also promote and disseminate the 3Rs. These bodies are mainly driven by responding to regulatory requirements, such as supporting the cosmetics testing ban in the EU by validating alternative methods.\n\nThe European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing serves as a liaison between the European Commission and industries. The European Consensus Platform for Alternatives coordinates efforts amongst EU member states.\n\nAcademic centers also investigate alternatives, including the Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing at the Johns Hopkins University and the NC3Rs in the UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12813304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12813304", "title": "Antoine Berman", "text": "Antoine Berman\n\nAntoine Berman (; 24 June 1942 – 1991) was a French translator, philosopher, historian and theorist of translation.\n\nAntoine Berman was born in the small town of Argenton-sur-Creuse, near Limoges, to a Polish-Jewish father and a French-Yugoslav mother. After living hidden during the Second World War, the family established near Paris. Berman attended the Lycée Montmorency. Later he studied philosophy at the University of Paris, where he met his wife Isabelle. In 1968 they moved to Argentina, where they remained 5 years. Back in Paris he led a rich academic life. He died in 1991, at the age of only forty-nine, writing his last book in bed.\n\nAntoine Berman's \"trials of the foreign\", which originates from German Romanticism (especially Friedrich Schleiermacher), tries to show the \"deforming tendencies\" inherent in the act of translation.\n\nBerman's 'twelve deforming tendencies' in translation were:\n\nLawrence Venuti, an American translation theorist, has used Berman's concepts to write a genealogy of translation in an Anglo-American context to introduce the \"foreignizing\" strategy that is normatively suppressed in mainstream translation.\n\nBerman was active in philosophical and literary circles, nevertheless he has been influential in translatology, especially in translation criticism. He claimed that there may be many different methods for translation criticism as there are many translation theories; therefore he entitled a model of his own as an analytical path, which can be modulated according to the specific objectives of each analyst and adapted to all standardized text types.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21490890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21490890", "title": "Arne Næss", "text": "Arne Næss\n\nArne Dekke Eide Næss ( ; ; 27 January 1912 – 12 January 2009) was a Norwegian philosopher who coined the term \"deep ecology\" and was an important intellectual and inspirational figure within the environmental movement of the late twentieth century. Næss cited Rachel Carson's 1962 book \"Silent Spring\" as being a key influence in his vision of deep ecology. Næss combined his ecological vision with Gandhian nonviolence and on several occasions participated in direct action.\n\nNæss averred that while western environmental groups of the early post-war period had raised public awareness of the environmental issues of the time, they had largely failed to have insight into and address what he argued were the underlying cultural and philosophical background to these problems. Naess believed that the environmental crisis of the twentieth century had arisen due to certain unspoken philosophical presuppositions and attitudes within modern western developed societies which remained unacknowledged.\n\nHe thereby distinguished between what he called \"deep\" and \"shallow\" ecological thinking. In contrast to the prevailing utilitarian pragmatism of western businesses and governments, he advocated that a true understanding of nature would give rise to a point of view that appreciates the value of biological diversity, understanding that each living thing is dependent on the existence of other creatures in the complex web of interrelationships that is the natural world.\n\nNæss was born in Slemdal, Oslo, Norway, the son of Christine (Dekke) and Ragnar Eide Næss. In 1939, Næss was the youngest person to be appointed full professor at the University of Oslo and the only professor of philosophy in the country at the time. He was a noted mountaineer, who in 1950 led the expedition that made the first ascent of Tirich Mir (7,708 m). The Tvergastein hut in the Hallingskarvet massif played an important role in Ecosophy T, as \"T\" is said to represent his mountain hut Tvergastein. In 1958, he founded the interdisciplinary journal of philosophy \"\".\n\nIn 1970, together with a large number of protesters, he chained himself to rocks in front of Mardalsfossen, a waterfall in a Norwegian fjord, and refused to descend until plans to build a dam were dropped. Though the demonstrators were carried away by police and the dam was eventually built, the demonstration launched a more activist phase of Norwegian environmentalism.\n\nIn 1996, he won the Swedish Academy Nordic Prize, known as the 'little Nobel'. In 2005 he was decorated as a Commander with Star of the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav for socially useful work. Næss was a minor political candidate for the Norwegian Green Party in 2005.\n\nNæss' \"Erkenntnis und wissenschaftliches Verhalten\" (1936) anticipated many themes familiar in post-war analytic philosophy. Næss' main philosophical work from the 1950s was entitled \"Interpretation and Preciseness\". This was an application of set theory to the problems of language interpretation, extending the work of semanticists such as Charles Kay Ogden in \"The Meaning of Meaning\". A simple way of explaining it is that any given utterance (word, phrase, or sentence) can be considered as having different potential interpretations, depending on prevailing language norms, the characteristics of particular persons or groups of users, and the language situation in which the utterance occurred. These differing interpretations are to be formulated in more precise language represented as subsets of the original utterance. Each subset can, in its turn, have further subsets (theoretically ad infinitum). The advantages of this conceptualisation of interpretation are various. It enables systematic demonstration of possible interpretation, making possible evaluation of which are the more and less \"reasonable interpretations\". It is a logical instrument for demonstrating language vagueness, undue generalisation, conflation, pseudo-agreement and effective communication.\n\nNæss developed a simplified, practical textbook embodying these advantages, entitled \"Communication and Argument\", which became a valued introduction to this pragmatics or \"language logic\", and was used over many decades as a \"sine qua non\" for the preparatory examination at the University of Oslo, later known as \"Examen Philosophicum\" (\"Exphil\").\n\n\"Communication and Argument\" included his recommendations for objective public debate. Næss argued for adhering to the following rules to make discussions as fruitful and pleasant as possible:\nFor many years these points were part of two compulsory courses in philosophy taught in Norwegian universities (\"Examen philosophicum\" and \"Examen facultatum\").\n\nEcosophy T, as distinct from deep ecology, was originally the name of his personal philosophy. Others such as Warwick Fox have interpreted deep ecology as a commitment to ecosophy T, Næss's personal beliefs. The T referred to Tvergastein, a mountain hut where he wrote many of his books, and reflected Næss's view that everyone should develop his own philosophy.\n\nAlthough a very rich and complex philosophy, Næss's ecosophy can be summed up as having Self-realization as its core. According to Næss, every being, whether human, animal, or vegetable has an equal right to live and to blossom. Through this capitalized Self, Næss emphasizes, in distinction to realization of man’s narrow selves, the realization of our selves as part of an ecospheric whole. It is in this whole that our true ecological Self can be realized. Practically Self-realization for Næss means that, if one does not know how the outcomes of one's actions will affect other beings, one should not act, similar to the liberal harm principle.\n\nNæss' father, Ragnar Næss, was a successful banker and Næss was the younger brother of shipowner Erling Dekke Næss. Næss himself was a married father of two and was the uncle of mountaineer and businessman Arne Næss Jr. (1937–2004), who was once married to Diana Ross.\n\nThe Arne Næss Centre of Ecology and Philosophy (ANCEP), located in Norway, is an organization focused on the philosophical heritage of Arne Næss. It was founded in 1998 as an educational organisation aimed at Norwegian students. ANCEP then worked to spread knowledge and understanding of ecology, philosophy and non-violence. In 2003 ANCEP changed its name to Gateway College.\n\nANCEP was reestablished in June 2011 as a non-profit organization by Sjur Paulsen, Geir Grønflaten and Reidar Goffeng. With support from Fritt Ord, Arts Council Norway, Center for Development and Environment / SUM and the Norwegian School of Sport Science / Norges Idrettshøgskole, ANCEP is now working on its first project called (Electronic Library). This project will gather all written, unpublished material by Næss to be scanned and preserved, then to be made available for the general public as an online based digital library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34623216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34623216", "title": "Augustin Berque", "text": "Augustin Berque\n\nAugustin Berque (born 1942 in Rabat, Morocco), is a French geographer, Orientalist and philosopher. He is the son of the famous Egyptologist Jacques Berque. He is professor at the École des hautes études en sciences sociales in Paris (EHESS). His specialist field of interest is Japan.\n\nBerque has developed an extensive array of concepts in order to grasp the complex nature of relations between natural and physical objects and the way we conceive of nature. He insists on intermediation, introducing a new concept (Médiance in French). His more theoretical work relies on the concept of oecumene, which he uses after Plato and quite distinctly from the sense proposed by Derrida. He has also worked on landscapes by comparing the different visions of the world that are mirrored by a specific landscape.\n\nAugustin Berque's work has not been widely translated into English.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5946", "title": "Casuistry", "text": "Casuistry\n\nCasuistry () is a process of reasoning that seeks to resolve moral problems by extracting or extending theoretical rules from a particular case, and reapplying those rules to new instances. This method occurs in applied ethics and jurisprudence. The term is also commonly used as a pejorative to criticize the use of clever but unsound reasoning, especially in relation to moral questions (as in sophistry).\n\nCasuistry describes either a form of reasoning that is presumed to be acceptable, or a form of reasoning that is inherently unsound and deceptive. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" says that the word \"[o]ften (and perhaps originally) applied to a quibbling or evasive way of dealing with difficult cases of duty.\" Its textual references, except for certain technical usages, are consistently pejorative (e.g., \"Casuistry destroys by distinctions and exceptions, all morality, and effaces the essential difference between right and wrong\").\n\nThe word \"casuistry\" derives from the Latin noun \"casus\" (\"case\" or \"occurrence\").\n\nWhile a principle-based approach might claim that lying is always morally wrong, the casuist would argue that, depending upon the details of the case, lying might or might not be illegal or unethical. The casuist might conclude that a person is wrong to lie in legal testimony under oath, but might argue that lying actually is the best moral choice if the lie saves a life. (Thomas Sanchez and others thus theorized a doctrine of mental reservation, which developed into its own branch of casuistry.) For the casuist, the circumstances of a case are essential for evaluating the proper response.\n\nTypically, casuistic reasoning begins with a clear-cut paradigmatic case. In legal reasoning, for example, this might be a precedent case, such as premeditated murder. From it, the casuist would ask how closely the given case currently under consideration matches the paradigmatic case. Cases like the paradigmatic case ought to be treated likewise; cases unlike the paradigm ought to be treated differently. Thus, a man is properly charged with premeditated murder if the circumstances surrounding his case closely resemble the exemplary premeditated murder case. The less a given case is like the paradigm, the weaker the justification is for treating that case \"like\" the paradigmatic case.\n\nCasuistry is a \"method\" of case reasoning especially useful in treating cases that involve moral dilemmas. It is a branch of applied ethics. It is also criticized for the use of inconsistent—or outright specious—application of rule to instance. \n\nCasuistry takes a relentlessly practical approach to morality. Rather than using theories as starting points, casuistry begins with an examination of cases. By drawing parallels between paradigms, or so-called \"pure cases\", and the case at hand, a casuist tries to determine a moral response appropriate to a particular case.\n\nCasuistry has been described as \"theory modest\" (Arras, see below). One of the strengths of casuistry is that it does not begin with, nor does it overemphasize, theoretical issues. It does not require practitioners to agree about ethical theories or evaluations before making policy. Instead, they can agree that certain paradigms should be treated in certain ways, and then agree on the similarities, the so-called warrants between a paradigm and the case at hand.\n\nSince most people, and most cultures, substantially agree about most pure ethical situations, casuistry often creates ethical arguments that can persuade people of different ethnic, religious and philosophical beliefs to treat particular cases in the same ways. For this reason, casuistry is widely considered to be the basis for the English common law and its derivatives.\n\nCasuistry is prone to abuses wherever the analogies between cases are false.\n\nCasuistry dates from Aristotle (384–322 BC), yet the zenith of casuistry was from 1550 to 1650, when the Society of Jesus used case-based reasoning, particularly in administering the Sacrament of Penance (or \"confession\"). The term \"casuistry\" quickly became pejorative with Blaise Pascal's attack on the misuse of casuistry. In \"Provincial Letters\" (1656–7) he scolded the Jesuits for using casuistic reasoning in confession to placate wealthy Church donors, while punishing poor penitents. Pascal charged that aristocratic penitents could confess their sins one day, re-commit the sin the next day, generously donate the following day, then return to re-confess their sins and only receive the lightest punishment; Pascal's criticisms darkened casuistry's reputation.\n\nIt was not until publication of \"The Abuse of Casuistry: A History of Moral Reasoning\" (1988), by Albert Jonsen and Stephen Toulmin, that a revival of casuistry occurred. They argue that the abuse of casuistry is the problem, not casuistry \"per se\" (itself an example of casuistic reasoning). Properly used, casuistry is powerful reasoning. Jonsen and Toulmin offer casuistry in dissolving the contradictory tenets of moral absolutism and the common secular moral relativism: \"the form of reasoning constitutive of classical casuistry is rhetorical reasoning\". Moreover, the ethical philosophies of Utilitarianism (especially preference utilitarianism) and Pragmatism commonly are identified as greatly employing casuistic reasoning.\n\nThe casuistic method was popular among Catholic thinkers in the early modern period, and not only among the Jesuits, as it is commonly thought. Famous casuistic authors include Antonio Escobar y Mendoza, whose \"Summula casuum conscientiae\" (1627) enjoyed a great success, Thomas Sanchez, Vincenzo Filliucci (Jesuit and penitentiary at St Peter's), Antonino Diana, Paul Laymann (\"Theologia Moralis\", 1625), John Azor (\"Institutiones Morales\", 1600), Etienne Bauny, Louis Cellot, Valerius Reginaldus, Hermann Busembaum (d. 1668), etc. One of the main theses of casuists was the necessity to adapt the rigorous morals of the Early Fathers of Christianity to modern morals, which led in some extreme cases to justify what Innocent XI later called \"laxist moral\" (i.e. justification of usury, homicide, regicide, lying through \"mental reservation\", adultery and loss of virginity before marriage, etc.—all due cases registered by Pascal in the \"Provincial Letters\").\n\nThe progress of casuistry was interrupted toward the middle of the 17th century by the controversy which arose concerning the doctrine of probabilism, which stipulated that one could choose to follow a \"probable opinion\", that is, supported by a theologian or another, even if it contradicted a more probable opinion or a quotation from one of the Fathers of the Church. The controversy divided Catholic theologians into two camps, Rigorists and Laxists.\n\nCertain kinds of casuistry were criticized by early Protestant theologians, because it was used in order to justify many of the abuses that they sought to reform. It was famously attacked by the Catholic and Jansenist philosopher Pascal, during the formulary controversy against the Jesuits, in his Provincial Letters as the use of rhetorics to justify moral laxity, which became identified by the public with Jesuitism; hence the everyday use of the term to mean complex and sophistic reasoning to justify moral laxity. By the mid-18th century, \"casuistry\" had become a synonym for specious moral reasoning. However, Puritans were well known for their own development of casuistry.\n\nIn 1679 Pope Innocent XI publicly condemned sixty-five of the more radical propositions (\"stricti mentalis\"), taken chiefly from the writings of Escobar, Suarez and other casuists as \"propositiones laxorum moralistarum\" and forbade anyone to teach them under penalty of excommunication. Despite this papal condemnation, both Catholicism and Protestantism permit the use of ambiguous and equivocal statements in specific circumstances.\n\nG. E. Moore dealt with casuistry in chapter 1.4 of his \"Principia Ethica\", in which he claims that \"the defects of casuistry are not defects of principle; no objection can be taken to its aim and object. It has failed only because it is far too difficult a subject to be treated adequately in our present state of knowledge\". Furthermore, he asserted that \"casuistry is the goal of ethical investigation. It cannot be safely attempted at the beginning of our studies, but only at the end\".\n\nSince the 1960s, applied ethics has revived the ideas of casuistry in applying ethical reasoning to particular cases in law, bioethics, and business ethics, so the reputation of casuistry is somewhat rehabilitated.\n\nPope Francis, a Jesuit, has criticised \"the practice of setting general laws on the basis of exceptional cases\" as casuistry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49653660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49653660", "title": "Christopher Tindale", "text": "Christopher Tindale\n\nChristopher William Tindale (born 1953) is a Canadian philosopher specializing in rhetoric, argumentation theory, and ancient Greek philosophy. Tindale is on the editorial board of the journal Informal Logic, and currently serves as the chair of the Centre for Research in Reasoning, Argumentation, and Rhetoric. He has published numerous books and articles, translated into several languages, with a focus on argumentation and rhetoric.\n\nTindale received his PhD in philosophy from the University of Waterloo. He worked as a professor at Trent University for over twenty years, and served as Chair of the department of Ancient History and Classics for part of that time. He has been a professor at the University of Windsor since 2006.\nHis theoretical work stresses the experiential dimensions of argumentation, giving attention to audience reception and the role of the addressee in the argumentative situation. The cognitive environment, as the space in which conviction is experienced and then personalized in persuasion, has been developed in the work since the mid-nineties, culminating in the replacement of Perelman's notorious universal audience with this idea. This in turn has allowed for traditional rhetorical concepts like presence and ethos to be reimagined as important contemporary ideas. Such rhetorical devices are developed as a means of engaging an audience's rationality as well as referring to the specific interests or desires of that audience.\nHis practical work is reflected in textbooks that translate state-of-the-art research so as to inform the practice of everyday reasoning. This is to be seen in the Oxford textbook (co-authored with Leo Groarke) in its fifth edition, the work on fallacies (2007), and the original German text (2013) that is the first in that language to integrate logical and rhetorical features of argumentation. A further dimension of the practical side of his work has been the examination of conflict resolution strategies, leading to current work which applies the tools of argumentation theory to the problems of deep disagreement and extremism. \nHe has provided specific curricular to the Open University system in Germany (FernUniversität in Hagen) and graduate programs on other continents. His work has been translated into Chinese, French, German, Serbian, Spanish, and Russian.\nHe is an Advisory Editor of the University of Bologna Law Review, a general student-edited law journal published by the Department of Legal Studies of the University of Bologna.\n\n"}
{"id": "7090865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7090865", "title": "Clergy Letter Project", "text": "Clergy Letter Project\n\nThe Clergy Letter Project is a project that maintains statements in support of the teaching of evolution and collects signatures in support of letters from American Christian, Jewish, Unitarian Universalist, and Buddhist clergy. The letters make reference to points raised by intelligent design proponents. There are four separate letters: A Christian Clergy Letter, a Rabbi Letter, a Unitarian Universalist Clergy Letter and a Buddhist Clergy Letter. As of August 12, 2013, there were 12,878 signatures from Christian clergy, 503 signatures from Jewish rabbis, 273 signatures from Unitarian Universalist clergy and 23 signatures from Buddhist clergy.\n\nThis effort was initiated in 2004 by the biologist Michael Zimmerman, now vice president for academic affairs and provost at Evergreen State College in Olympia, Washington. The letter was written by John McFadden, pastor of the First Congregational United Church of Christ in Appleton, Wisconsin.\n\nThe project also encourages congregations to participate in Evolution Weekend by sponsoring events in which clergy and congregations are encouraged to learn about and discuss evolution. The weekend chosen is the closest Sunday to Charles Darwin's birthday, February 12. Evolution Sunday events first took place in 2006 and the project renamed it in 2008 to be more inclusive. The Clergy Letter Project states that Evolution Weekend activities are \"an opportunity for serious discussion and reflection on the relationship between religion and science\" and in an effort \"to elevate the quality of the discussion on this critical topic, and to show that religion and science are not adversaries.\" The project states that events are specifically intended to emphasize that \"Religious people from many diverse faith traditions and locations around the world understand that evolution is quite simply sound science; and for them, it does not in any way threaten, demean, or diminish their faith in God. In fact, for many, the wonders of science often enhance and deepen their awe and gratitude towards God.\"\n\nThe letters are entitled \"An Open Letter Concerning Religion and Science\". The four letters have somewhat distinct texts.\n\nIn addition to English, the Christian version of the project has also been translated to Spanish, Portuguese, and French.\n\nRabbi Letter\n\nUnitarian Universalist Letter\n\nBuddhist Clergy Letter\n\nThe project was organized in 2004 by Michael Zimmerman, then a biology professor and dean of the College of Science and Letters at University of Wisconsin–Oshkosh. He was motivated to create a petition by the actions of the school board in Grantsburg, Wisconsin, which had passed some anti-evolution policies in the summer of 2004. Zimmerman was a veteran of similar disputes in Ohio, when he was a professor at Oberlin College. After Zimmerman watched Christian fundamentalist clergy from Dover, Pennsylvania, on the television program \"Nightline\" insisting that decisions about teaching evolution in schools was equivalent to a choice between heaven and hell, he recruited the husband of the head of the university Psychology Department, John McFadden, pastor of the First Congregational United Church of Christ in Appleton, Wisconsin, to write a letter describing how science and religion can co-exist.\n\nZimmerman worked with local clergy in Wisconsin to get clergy to sign this letter, and within a few weeks he had collected almost 200 clergy signatures. The signed letter was delivered to the Grantsburg School Board on December 16, 2004. This effort, together with those of other concerned groups of educators, citizens and scientists, lead the Grantsburg School Board to rescind its policies.\n\nAfter this success, Zimmerman was encouraged to organize a nationwide campaign and gather more signatures. By September 12, 2005, the Clergy Letter Project had collected more than 7,500 signatures. By the beginning of December 2005, the project had amassed more than 10,000 signatures. Most of the clergy who signed are Protestant, an artifact of the way that people were originally invited to sign the letter. Email invitations were sent, and it was easier to get email addresses for some churches and denominations than others.\n\nThe clergy letter was at first limited to Christian clergy, and Zimmerman declined offers from Jewish and Muslim clergy. Zimmerman stated that \"Since it is fundamentalist Christian ministers who have been shouting to the American people that they must choose between religion and science, it seemed reasonable to have thousands upon thousands of Christian clergy assert otherwise. It simply wouldn't be very persuasive to have leaders of other religions saying to Christians that Christian fundamentalist ministers are not speaking for all Christians...the Clergy Letter Project and Evolution Sunday are not designed to change the minds of fundamentalists. Rather, our goal is to educate the vast majority of Christians who, if told they have to choose between religion and modern science, are likely to opt for religion.\"\n\nLater, however, three additional statements were added to the project: a Jewish rabbi letter, a Unitarian Universalist clergy letter, and a Buddhist clergy letter.\n\nZimmerman and the Clergy Letter Project also organize \"Evolution Weekend,\" an annual movement to encourages churches to discuss the role of science and religion in sermons, discussion groups, seminars, and other activities on the weekend nearest to February 12, the birthday of Charles Darwin (Darwin Day). The day began in 2006 as \"Evolution Sunday,\" gaining attention from \"The New York Times\". In 2008, it was renamed \"Evolution Weekend\" to incorporate more faith traditions. In 2011, 652 congregations from all 50 states and the District of Columbia as well as 13 countries participated in Evolution Weekend activities.\n\nZimmerman and the Clergy Letter Project maintain a list of 1,052 scientists from all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and 32 countries, who have agreed to serve as \"technical consultants to clergy members who have questions about the science associated with all aspects of evolution.\" The project states that \"The very existence of this list clearly demonstrates the willingness of scientists to work collaboratively with clergy members. Together, scientists and clergy members demonstrate that religion and science can have a complementary and positive relationship with one another.\"\n\nEvolution Weekend often gained attention from several news outlets, with participating clergy being interviewed in local publications.\n\nThe creationist Discovery Institute, which arranged its own anti-evolution petition called \"A Scientific Dissent from Darwinism\" in 2001 criticized the project. Discovery Institute communications director Rob Crowther asserted that the disputes about evolution was \"purely a scientific debate\" and that clergy petitions are irrelevant, stating that clergy \"don't make any difference,\" since \"We don't think there is anything religious at all to the theory of intelligent design.\" Zimmerman described this argument as part of the problem, as intelligent design tried to undermine science by changing it from a study of the natural world to include supernatural explanations, and it was important for clergy to defend science against these attacks.\n\nKen Ham and Mark Looy of the creationist organization Answers in Genesis have repeatedly condemned Evolution Sunday/Evolution Weekend activities as a \"Darwin praise service\" and expressing dismay that \"over 10,200 clergy had signed this awful letter.\" Ham and Looy also criticized Zimmerman's fundraising efforts through the Christian Alliance for Progress. Answers in Genesis published a list of \"modern scientists who have accepted the biblical account of creation.\" The majority are not biologists. The group has also organized \"Creation Sunday\" in response to Evolution Weekend, and has promoted the Creation Letter Project in response to Clergy Letter Project.\n\nJonathan Dudley, a divinity student at Yale University and author of the book \"Broken Words: The Abuse of Science and Faith in American Politics\" (2011), wrote approvingly of Evolution Sunday in the \"Yale Daily News\" on January 24, 2007, while still worrying that congregations were not being taught to think for themselves with this current campaign, any more than subscribing to fundamentalist Christian Biblical literalist doctrines. This caused Discovery Institute fellow Jonathon Wells to write a scathing article in the \"Yale Daily News\" about Evolution Sunday, \"Darwinism,\" and Zimmerman. Wells repeated creationist objections to evolution by claiming that there is no evidence of evolution and condemning evolution for not being in agreement with the views of 40% of the American public. Zimmerman responded to Wells' attack with a column in the \"Yale Daily News\" pointing out the copious errors of fact in Wells' article. Wells followed this with a letter to the editor in the \"Yale Daily News\". Wells brushed over the points Zimmerman had raised, and focused on whether the word \"Darwinism\" is appropriate or not. Wells also responded with vigor to two others who had written letters to the editor critical of his original article. Finally, Wells claimed that the only reason to stage Evolution Sunday is because evolution is not \"scientifically sound or religiously neutral,\" and that it is \"promoting an anti-religious philosophy disguised as empirical science.\" University of Iowa faculty member Tara C. Smith noted several other responses to this episode in her blog, \"Aetiology\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44381212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44381212", "title": "Commission on renewal and ethics in public life (France)", "text": "Commission on renewal and ethics in public life (France)\n\nThe French Commission on renewal and ethics in public life (in French \"\"), nicknamed Jospin commission, was a think tank established in 2012 by President François Hollande to provide reforms in public life.\n\nThis commission, which is responsible for considering institutional and public life, made its report in November 2012 and proposed reductions in holding multiple elected offices and in conflicts of interest; as well as the methods of election of the President of the Republic and legislators.\n\nWith the exception of a few measures on declaration of conflicts of interest or the restriction of multiple directorships, most proposals have not been implemented.\n\nThis Committee was preceded by other committees exploring the same subject, including:\n\nThe announcement of the establishment of the commission was made during an interview the President of the Republic on .\n\nThe commission was set up by the Decree of .\n\nThe first meeting was on Wednesday July 25; where the commission decided to take time for reflection until August.\n\nFrançois Hollande received the report of the Committee on .\n\nThe purpose of the commission, as its name suggests, was to make proposals to renovate the political field of French public life.\n\nThe commission particularly needed to consider the following items:\n\nThe committee was composed of seven men and seven women, including its president.\n\nThe committee was chaired by former Prime Minister Lionel Jospin.\n\nThe following were appointed members of the commission (in alphabetical order):\n\n\nThe secretary is Alain Ménéménis, State Councillor.\n\nTwo members of the Commission, namely Olivier Schrameck and Jean-Claude Casanova, were members of the (\"Commission Balladur\") in 2007.\n\nA rumor, spread in particular by e-mail, complained of exorbitant compensation for four months of work by members of the committee and each of their consultants, at a cost of several million francs. On the radio, Lionel Jospin, several journalists and former members of previous commissions have in turn denied the allegations.\n\nHowever, in late September, commission member Roselyne Bachelot, feeling particularly targeted by rumors, decided to publicly complain.\n\nAccording to Claude Allègre and Denis Jeambar, who co-wrote an editorial in \"Le Monde\" in September 2012, this commission is in line with the commitment of each of the former presidents of the 5th Republic to revise the constitution according to their taste, past presidents setting up expert committees which met behind closed doors. \n\nThe committee made 35 proposals in its report.:\n\nOn the :\n\nOn the French legislature: \n\nOn holding multiple offices:\n\nOn and ministers:\n\nOn prevention of conflicts of interest:\n\nOn 20 February 2013, two bills are presented to the Council of Minister relating to the election of senators. Their purpose was to extend the proportional voting to departments with three or more senators, as well as increase the number of delegates from large cities and change the representation of French outside France (expatriate). These laws were enacted in July and August 2013.\n\nOn 13 March 2013, four constitutional bills are presented to the Council of Ministers:\n\nThe reform of the penal code pertaining to the head of state was no longer considered. For these four texts, the government wanted a meeting of the Congress in July, but because of lack of time and sufficient majority, only the project on Higher Judicial Council was discussed in Parliament, but the Senate stripped the bill of its content. After this, the Government was forced to postpone the revisions.\n\nThe text on the Supreme Judicial Council was implemented in the bill on the powers of the Minister of Justice and Public Prosecutors in criminal policy and public action, presented by the Council of Ministers on 27 March and issued July 25.\n\nOn 3 April 2013, two texts are presented to the Cabinet:\nThese texts were in force in 2017 instead of 2014 at the request of certain socialist.\n\nFollowing the , further reforms were prepared: \n"}
{"id": "23508106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23508106", "title": "Continuismo", "text": "Continuismo\n\nContinuismo () is the practice by incumbents of keeping themselves in office beyond the legal term. Some Latin American heads of state indefinitely extend their rule by way of reducing or abolishing term limits, via constitutional revision. Examples are (Juan Perón, Argentina; Alfredo Stroessner, Paraguay; Evo Morales, Bolivia). Another tactic is legislative enactment, such as with (Jorge Ubico, Guatemala in 1941). A third tactic is by plebiscite (Carlos Castillo Armas, Guatemala [1954]) and Marcos Pérez Jiménez ,Venezuela, 1958)) and the 1988 failed attempt by Augusto Pinochet in Chile. A further type is internal coup (Getulio Vargas, Brazil). Yet another way is the imposition of a weak successor candidate allowing rule by the outgoing incumbent (Emilio Portes Gil and Abelardo Rodríguez in Mexico allowing Plutarco Elías Calles, \"el jefe máximo\", to continue ruling, a period known as the Maximato). The extension of family rule occurred in Nicaragua with the Somoza family; in Argentina with Juan Perón; and then more recently Nestor Kirchner and his wife Cristina Fernández de Kirchner; and in Cuba with Fidel Castro and his brother Raúl Castro. Despite Peru's one term limit established by its 1979 constitution, Alberto Fujimori illegally extended his rule to ten years through two re-elections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53961171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53961171", "title": "CyraCom Language Solutions", "text": "CyraCom Language Solutions\n\nCyraCom International, Inc. is an American language services company that provides over the phone and video interpretation and language assessment services. It is the largest provider of telephone interpretation services in the United States.\nCyraCom was originally founded as Kevmark Industries in 1995, when co-founder Mark Myers invented the first dual-handset telephone. Myers and co-founder Kevin Carey built a prototype with two handsets connected to a single base, allowing both patients and providers to speak to an interpreter on a three-way call without passing a handset back and forth. The device later became known as the CyraPhone.\nThe company name was changed to CyraCom in 1997, named for Edmond Rostand's Cyrano de Bergerac. It operates call centers and offices in the United States with one office in the United Kingdom, and provides interpreters in hundreds of languages.\n"}
{"id": "39740142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39740142", "title": "David Batstone", "text": "David Batstone\n\nDr. David Batstone is the founder and managing director of Just Business, a social impact investment firm. His portfolio of successful ventures includes REBBL, the \"top new organic beverage in the USA\" (2016); Z Shoes; Square Organics; and Not For Sale. As founder of Not For Sale, Batstone has connected business leaders, celebrities, politicians, and students to design strategic solutions for the 40+ million human slaves in the world today.\nDavid Batstone is an ethics professor at the University of San Francisco and is the founder and president of Not for Sale.\n\nBatstone is also a journalist and the president and founder of Right Reality, an international business that engages in social ventures. He is a leader in Central American Mission Partners, a human rights group. As a representative of this group, he met with Bono through Glide Memorial Church during A Conspiracy of Hope, a concert tour in support of Amnesty International. Before becoming a human rights activist, Batstone was a Silicon Valley venture capitalist.\n\nBatstone works with entrepreneurs and investors to create forward-thinking companies that return dignity to people and planet; and shares his unique model for developing successful enterprises that create opportunities for everyone. His groundbreaking work has earned him numerous awards. Most recently the United Nations Women for Peace Association selected him as their annual Peace Award winner in 2017. He also was awarded in 2017 the Harari Conscious Leadership and Social Innovation prize (USF School of Management award).\n\nDavid Batstone also teaches in the department of Entrepreneurship & Innovation at University of San Francisco’s School of Management. Previously a private equity banker in the technology industry, Dr. Batstone is published widely in both academia and the popular press. His five books feature entrepreneurship at the crossroads of business and society. \"USA (Today) Weekend\" describes Batstone as “one of the country’s leading authorities on ethics in the business world.\"\n\nIn 1997 Dr. Batstone was one of the founding team members of \"Business 2.0\" magazine, which burst onto the publishing scene with National Magazine Award “Best New US Magazine.\" Time-Warner acquired Business 2.0 magazine in 2001. Dr. Batstone also has been a contributor to \"The New York Times, Wired, The Chicago Tribune, Spin, Stanford Social Innovation Review, and The San Francisco Chronicle\".\n\nBatstone wrote the book \"Not for Sale: The Return of the Global Slave Trade - and How We Can Fight It\", in which he wrote about human trafficking and how social inequality and poverty make it easy for traffickers to find girls to traffick. Julie Clawson wrote positively of this book, writing that she appreciated Batstone's \"audacity in telling story after story of modern-day slavery.\" While still a student, Batstone studied under William R. Herzog, who taught Batstone about the parables of Jesus. Batstone is an advocate of workplace spirituality, about which he wrote in his 2003 book \"Saving the Corporate Soul\". He is also a liberation theologian who considers postmodernity an era in which \"we wallow in private affluence while squatting in public squalor.\" An anti-slavery activist, at the 2012 Freedom and Honor Conference in Korea, a conference about slavery and human trafficking, Batstone was one of the two keynote speakers.\n"}
{"id": "28413790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28413790", "title": "De civilitate morum puerilium", "text": "De civilitate morum puerilium\n\nDe civilitate morum puerilium is a handbook written by Erasmus of Rotterdam, and is considered to be the first treatise in Western Europe on the moral and practical education of children. First published in 1530 it was addressed to the eleven-year-old Henry of Burgundy, son of Adolph, Prince of Veere, and gives instructions, in simple Latin, on how a boy should conduct himself in the company of adults. The book achieved immediate success and was translated into many languages. The first English version, by Robert Whittinton (or Whittington) was published in 1532, under the title of \"A Little Book of Good Manners for Children\". Another translation by Thomas Paynell was issued in 1560.\n\nThe book is divided into seventeen sections, each dealing with an aspect of behaviour.\n"}
{"id": "4487022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4487022", "title": "Face-to-face (philosophy)", "text": "Face-to-face (philosophy)\n\nThe face-to-face relation () is a concept in the French philosopher Emmanuel Lévinas' thought on human sociality. It means that, ethically, people are responsible to one-another in the face-to-face encounter. Specifically, Lévinas says that the human face \"orders and ordains\" us. It calls the subject into “giving and serving” the Other.\n\nLévinas' phenomenological account of the \"face-to-face\" encounter serves as the basis for his ethics and the rest of his philosophy. For Lévinas, \"Ethics is the first philosophy.\" Lévinas argues that the encounter of the Other through the face reveals a certain poverty which forbids a reduction to Sameness and, simultaneously, installs a responsibility for the Other in the Self.\n\nLévinas' account of the face-to-face encounter bears many similarities to Martin Buber's \"I and Thou\" relation. Its influence is also particularly pronounced in Jacques Derrida's ethical writings. (However, some post-structuralist thinkers maintain that Derrida does not agree with Lévinas. See, perhaps most significantly, Martin Hägglund.)\n\nThe major difference between Buber's account of the I and Thou relation and the ethics of the face-to-face encounter is the application of Lévinas' asymmetry towards the other. For Buber, ethical relation meant a \"symmetrical co-presence,\" while Lévinas, on the other hand, considers the relation with the other as something inherently asymmetrical: the other as they appear, the face, gives itself priority to the self, its first demand even before I react to it, love it or kill it, is: \"thou shalt not kill me\". Such a demand for Lévinas is prior to any reaction or any assertion of freedom by a subject. The face of the other in this sense looms above the other person and traces \"where God passes.\" God (the infinite Other) here refers to the God of which one cannot refuse belief in Its history, that is the God who appears in traditional belief and of scripture and not some conceptual God of philosophy or ontotheology.\n\nIn the face-to-face encounter we also see how Lévinas splits ethics from morality. Ethics marks the primary situation of the face-to-face whereas morality comes later, as some kind of, agreed upon or otherwise, set of rules that emerge from the social situation, wherein there are more than just the two people of the face-to-face encounter.\nThis ethical relation for Lévinas is prior to an ontology of nature, instead he refers to it as a meontology, which affirms a meaning beyond Being, a mode of non-Being (Greek: \"me on\").\n\nFace-to-face is similar to Mikhail Bakhtin's ethical concept in art and answerability and Martin Heidegger's concept of the authentic guilt (present/face-to-face) as opposed to an inauthentic other.\n\n"}
{"id": "1756663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1756663", "title": "Free Spirit Alliance", "text": "Free Spirit Alliance\n\nThe Free Spirit Alliance (FSA) is a non-profit spiritual networking organization serving the Pagan and pantheist communities. Founded on May 21, 1986 and based in the Mid-Atlantic area of the United States, the alliance's focus has been on presenting regional and local events where people from diverse backgrounds can learn and share ideas. Its promotional literature and website state that the organization has striven to develop a national reputation for being willing to work with often sensitive and personal issues in a friendly and safe environment.\n\nFSA’s main event is the Free Spirit Gathering, held in June. It has also run a retreat event in the fall. The gathering is held at a private campground near Darlington, Maryland. FSA previously ran Sacred Sexuality Beltane (held over five days at Beltane in May). That festival has been transferred to Turtle Hill Events.\n\nThe Free Spirit Gathering is by far the organization's largest event, attracting people from as far away as Washington, California, Hawaii, Texas, Minnesota and Canada. It is one of the oldest Pagan festivals in the country, celebrating its 25th year in 2010, and in peak years has had an attendance of over 800 people.\n\nFSA also sponsors several other smaller events and rituals in the Washington, DC and Maryland areas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10635", "title": "Free software", "text": "Free software\n\nFree software or libre software is computer software distributed under terms that allow users to run the software for any purpose as well as to study, change, and distribute it and any adapted versions. Free software is a matter of liberty, not price: users—individually or in cooperation with computer programmers—are free to do what they want with their copies of a free software (including profiting from them) regardless of how much is paid to obtain the program. Computer programs are deemed free insofar as they give users (not just the developer) ultimate control over the first, thereby allowing them to control what their devices are programmed to do.\n\nThe right to study and modify a computer program entails that source code—the preferred format for making changes—be made available to users of that program. While this is often called 'access to source code' or 'public availability', the Free Software Foundation recommends against thinking in those terms, because it might give the impression that users have an obligation (as opposed to a right) to give non-users a copy of the program.\n\nAlthough the term \"free software\" had already been used loosely in the past, Richard Stallman is credited with tying it to the sense under discussion and starting the free-software movement in 1983, when he launched the GNU Project: a collaborative effort to create a freedom-respecting operating system, and to revive the spirit of cooperation once prevalent among hackers during the early days of computing.\n\nFree software thus differs from:\n\nFor software under the purview of copyright to be free, it must carry a software license whereby the author grants users the aforementioned rights. Software that is not covered by copyright law, such as software in the public domain, is free as long as the source code is in the public domain too, or otherwise available without restrictions.\n\nProprietary software uses restrictive software licences or EULAs and usually does not provide users with the source code. Users are thus legally or technically prevented from changing the software, and this results on reliance on the publisher to provide updates, help, and support. (See also vendor lock-in and abandonware). Users often may not reverse engineer, modify, or redistribute proprietary software. Beyond copyright law, contracts and lack of source code; there could be additional shenanigans keeping users from exercising freedom over a piece of software, such as software patents and digital rights management (more specifically, tivoization).\n\nIt must be noted that free software can be a for-profit, commercial activity or not. Some free software is developed by volunteer computer programmers while other is developed by corporations; or even by both.\n\nAlthough both definitions refer to almost equivalent corpora of programs, the Free Software Foundation recommends using the term \"free software\" rather than \"open-source software\" (a younger vision coined in 1998), because the goals and messaging are quite dissimilar. \"Open source\" and its associated campaign mostly focus on the technicalities of the public development model and marketing free software to businesses, while taking the ethical issue of user rights very lightly or even antagonistically. Stallman has also stated that considering the practical advantages of free software is like considering the practical advantages of not being handcuffed, in that it is not necessary for an individual to consider practical reasons in order to realize that being handcuffed is undesirable in itself.\n\nThe FSF also notes that \"Open Source\" has exactly one specific meaning in common English, namely that \"you can look at the source code.\" It states that while the term \"Free Software\" can lead to two different interpretations, at least one of them is consistent with the intended meaning unlike the term \"Open Source\". The loan adjective \"libre\" is often used to avoid the ambiguity of the word \"free\" in English language, and the ambiguity with the older usage of \"free software\" as public domain software. See \"Gratis\" versus \"libre\".\n\nThe first formal definition of free software was published by FSF in February 1986. That definition, written by Richard Stallman, is still maintained today and states that software is free software if people who receive a copy of the software have the following four freedoms. The numbering begins with zero, not only as a spoof on the common usage of zero-based numbering in programming languages, but also because \"Freedom 0\" was not initially included in the list, but later added first in the list as it was considered very important.\n\nFreedoms 1 and 3 require source code to be available because studying and modifying software without its source code can range from highly impractical to nearly impossible.\n\nThus, free software means that computer users have the freedom to cooperate with whom they choose, and to control the software they use. To summarize this into a remark distinguishing \"libre\" (freedom) software from \"gratis\" (zero price) software, the Free Software Foundation says: \"Free software is a matter of liberty, not price. To understand the concept, you should think of 'free' as in 'free speech', not as in 'free beer. See \"Gratis\" versus \"libre\".\n\nIn the late 1990s, other groups published their own definitions that describe an almost identical set of software. The most notable are Debian Free Software Guidelines published in 1997, and the Open Source Definition, published in 1998.\n\nThe BSD-based operating systems, such as FreeBSD, OpenBSD, and NetBSD, do not have their own formal definitions of free software. Users of these systems generally find the same set of software to be acceptable, but sometimes see copyleft as restrictive. They generally advocate permissive free software licenses, which allow others to use the software as they wish, without being legally \"forced\" to provide the source code. Their view is that this permissive approach is more free. The Kerberos, X11, and Apache software licenses are substantially similar in intent and implementation.\n\nThere are thousands of free applications and many operating systems available on the Internet. Users can easily download and install those applications via a package manager that comes included with most Linux distributions.\n\nThe Free Software Directory maintains a large database of free software packages. Some of the best-known examples include the Linux kernel, the BSD and Linux operating systems, the GNU Compiler Collection and C library; the MySQL relational database; the Apache web server; and the Sendmail mail transport agent. Other influential examples include the Emacs text editor; the GIMP raster drawing and image editor; the X Window System graphical-display system; the LibreOffice office suite; and the TeX and LaTeX typesetting systems.\n\nFrom the 1950s up until the early 1970s, it was normal for computer users to have the \"software freedoms\" associated with free software, which was typically public domain software. Software was commonly shared by individuals who used computers and by hardware manufacturers who welcomed the fact that people were making software that made their hardware useful. Organizations of users and suppliers, for example, SHARE, were formed to facilitate exchange of software. As software was often written in an interpreted language such as BASIC, the source code was distributed to use these programs. Software was also shared and distributed as printed source code (Type-in program) in computer magazines (like Creative Computing, SoftSide, Compute!, Byte etc) and books, like the bestseller \"BASIC Computer Games\". By the early 1970s, the picture changed: software costs were dramatically increasing, a growing software industry was competing with the hardware manufacturer's bundled software products (free in that the cost was included in the hardware cost), leased machines required software support while providing no revenue for software, and some customers able to better meet their own needs did not want the costs of \"free\" software bundled with hardware product costs. In \"United States vs. IBM\", filed January 17, 1969, the government charged that bundled software was anti-competitive. While some software might always be free, there would henceforth be a growing amount of software produced primarily for sale. In the 1970s and early 1980s, the software industry began using technical measures (such as only distributing binary copies of computer programs) to prevent computer users from being able to study or adapt the software applications as they saw fit. In 1980, copyright law was extended to computer programs.\n\nIn 1983, Richard Stallman, one of the original authors of the popular Emacs program and a longtime member of the hacker community at the MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, announced the GNU project, the purpose of which was to produce a completely non-proprietary Unix-compatible operating system, saying that he had become frustrated with the shift in climate surrounding the computer world and its users. In his initial declaration of the project and its purpose, he specifically cited as a motivation his opposition to being asked to agree to non-disclosure agreements and restrictive licenses which prohibited the free sharing of potentially profitable in-development software, a prohibition directly contrary to the traditional hacker ethic. Software development for the GNU operating system began in January 1984, and the Free Software Foundation (FSF) was founded in October 1985. He developed a free software definition and the concept of \"copyleft\", designed to ensure \"software freedom\" for all.\nSome non-software industries are beginning to use techniques similar to those used in free software development for their research and development process; scientists, for example, are looking towards more open development processes, and hardware such as microchips are beginning to be developed with specifications released under copyleft licenses (see the OpenCores project, for instance). Creative Commons and the free culture movement have also been largely influenced by the free software movement.\n\nIn 1983, Richard Stallman, longtime member of the hacker community at the MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, announced the GNU project, saying that he had become frustrated with the effects of the change in culture of the computer industry and its users. Software development for the GNU operating system began in January 1984, and the Free Software Foundation (FSF) was founded in October 1985. An article outlining the project and its goals was published in March 1985 titled the GNU Manifesto. The manifesto included significant explanation of the GNU philosophy, \"Free Software Definition\" and \"copyleft\" ideas.\n\nThe Linux kernel, started by Linus Torvalds, was released as freely modifiable source code in 1991. The first licence was a proprietary software licence. However, with version 0.12 in February 1992, he relicensed the project under the GNU General Public License. Much like Unix, Torvalds' kernel attracted the attention of volunteer programmers.\nFreeBSD and NetBSD (both derived from 386BSD) were released as free software when the USL v. BSDi lawsuit was settled out of court in 1993. OpenBSD forked from NetBSD in 1995. Also in 1995, The Apache HTTP Server, commonly referred to as Apache, was released under the Apache License 1.0.\n\nAll free software licenses must grant users all the freedoms discussed above. However, unless the applications' licenses are compatible, combining programs by mixing source code or directly linking binaries is problematic, because of license technicalities. Programs indirectly connected together may avoid this problem.\n\nThe majority of free software falls under a small set of licenses. The most popular of these licenses are:\n\nThe Free Software Foundation and the Open Source Initiative both publish lists of licenses that they find to comply with their own definitions of free software and open-source software respectively:\n\nThe FSF list is not prescriptive: free licenses can exist that the FSF has not heard about, or considered important enough to write about. So it's possible for a license to be free and not in the FSF list. The OSI list only lists licenses that have been submitted, considered and approved. All open-source licenses must meet the Open Source Definition in order to be officially recognized as open source software. Free software on the other hand is a more informal classification that does not rely on official recognition. Nevertheless, software licensed under licenses that do not meet the Free Software Definition cannot rightly be considered free software.\n\nApart from these two organizations, the Debian project is seen by some to provide useful advice on whether particular licenses comply with their Debian Free Software Guidelines. Debian doesn't publish a list of \"approved\" licenses, so its judgments have to be tracked by checking what software they have allowed into their software archives. That is summarized at the Debian web site.\n\nIt is rare that a license announced as being in-compliance with the FSF guidelines does not also meet the Open Source Definition, although the reverse is not necessarily true (for example, the NASA Open Source Agreement is an OSI-approved license, but non-free according to FSF).\n\nThere are different categories of free software.\n\nThere is debate over the security of free software in comparison to proprietary software, with a major issue being security through obscurity. A popular quantitative test in computer security is to use relative counting of known unpatched security flaws. Generally, users of this method advise avoiding products that lack fixes for known security flaws, at least until a fix is available.\n\nFree software advocates strongly believe that this methodology is biased by counting more vulnerabilities for the free software systems, since their source code is accessible and their community is more forthcoming about what problems exist, (This is called \"Security Through Disclosure\") and proprietary software systems can have undisclosed societal drawbacks, such as disenfranchising less fortunate would-be users of free programs. As users can analyse and trace the source code, many more people with no commercial constraints can inspect the code and find bugs and loopholes than a corporation would find practicable. According to Richard Stallman, user access to the source code makes deploying free software with undesirable hidden spyware functionality far more difficult than for proprietary software.\n\nSome quantitative studies have been done on the subject.\n\nIn 2006, OpenBSD started the first campaign against the use of binary blobs in kernels. Blobs are usually freely distributable device drivers for hardware from vendors that do not reveal driver source code to users or developers. This restricts the users' freedom effectively to modify the software and distribute modified versions. Also, since the blobs are undocumented and may have bugs, they pose a security risk to any operating system whose kernel includes them. The proclaimed aim of the campaign against blobs is to collect hardware documentation that allows developers to write free software drivers for that hardware, ultimately enabling all free operating systems to become or remain blob-free.\n\nThe issue of binary blobs in the Linux kernel and other device drivers motivated some developers in Ireland to launch gNewSense, a Linux based distribution with all the binary blobs removed. The project received support from the Free Software Foundation and stimulated the creation, headed by the Free Software Foundation Latin America, of the Linux-libre kernel. As of October 2012, Trisquel is the most popular FSF endorsed Linux distribution ranked by Distrowatch (over 12 months). While Debian is not endorsed by the FSF and does not use Linux-libre, it is also a popular distribution available without kernel blobs by default since 2011.\n\nSelling software under any free software licence is permissible, as is commercial use. This is true for licenses with or without copyleft.\n\nSince free software may be freely redistributed, it is generally available at little or no fee. Free software business models are usually based on adding value such as customization, accompanying hardware, support, training, integration, or certification. Exceptions exist however, where the user is charged to obtain a copy of the free application itself.\n\nFees are usually charged for distribution on compact discs and bootable USB drives, or for services of installing or maintaining the operation of free software. Development of large, commercially used free software is often funded by a combination of user donations, crowdfunding, corporate contributions, and tax money. The SELinux project at the United States National Security Agency is an example of a federally funded free software project.\n\nProprietary software on the other hand tends to use a different business model, where a customer of the proprietary application pays a fee for a license to legally access and use it. This license may grant the customer the ability to configure some or no parts of the software themselves. Often some level of support is included in the purchase of proprietary software, but additional support services (especially for enterprise applications) are usually available for an additional fee. Some proprietary software vendors will also customize software for a fee.\n\nThe Free Software Foundation encourages selling free software. As the Foundation has written, \"distributing free software is an opportunity to raise funds for development. Don't waste it!\". For example, the FSF's own recommended license (the GNU GPL) states that \"[you] may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey, and you may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.\"\n\nMicrosoft CEO Steve Ballmer stated in 2001 that \"open source is not available to commercial companies. The way the license is written, if you use any open-source software, you have to make the rest of your software open source.\" This misunderstanding is based on a requirement of copyleft licenses (like the GPL) that if one distributes modified versions of software, they must release the source and use the same license. This requirement does not extend to other software from the same developer. The claim of incompatibility between commercial companies and Free Software is also a misunderstanding. There are several large companies, e.g. Red Hat and IBM, which do substantial commercial business in the development of Free Software.\n\nFree software played a significant part in the development of the Internet, the World Wide Web and the infrastructure of dot-com companies. Free software allows users to cooperate in enhancing and refining the programs they use; free software is a pure public good rather than a private good. Companies that contribute to free software increase commercial innovation.\n\nThe economic viability of free software has been recognized by large corporations such as IBM, Red Hat, and Sun Microsystems. Many companies whose core business is not in the IT sector choose free software for their Internet information and sales sites, due to the lower initial capital investment and ability to freely customize the application packages. Most companies in the software business include free software in their commercial products if the licenses allow that.\n\nFree software is generally available at no cost and can result in permanently lower TCO costs compared to proprietary software. With free software, businesses can fit software to their specific needs by changing the software themselves or by hiring programmers to modify it for them. Free software often has no warranty, and more importantly, generally does not assign legal liability to anyone. However, warranties are permitted between any two parties upon the condition of the software and its usage. Such an agreement is made separately from the free software license.\n\nA report by Standish Group estimates that adoption of free software has caused a drop in revenue to the proprietary software industry by about $60 billion per year. In spite of this, Eric S. Raymond argues that the term \"free software\" is too ambiguous and intimidating for the business community. Raymond promotes the term \"open-source software\" as a friendlier alternative for the business and corporate world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23525212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23525212", "title": "Guided imagery", "text": "Guided imagery\n\nGuided imagery (also known as \"Guided Affective Imagery,\" or KIP, \"Katathym-imaginative Psychotherapy\") is a mind-body intervention by which a trained practitioner or teacher helps a participant or patient to evoke and generate mental images that simulate or re-create the sensory perception of sights, sounds, tastes, smells, movements, and images associated with touch, such as texture, temperature, and pressure, as well as imaginative or mental content that the participant or patient experiences as defying conventional sensory categories, and that may precipitate strong emotions or feelings in the absence of the stimuli to which correlating sensory receptors are receptive.\n\nThe practitioner or teacher may facilitate this process in person to an individual or a group. Alternatively, the participant or patient may follow guidance provided by a sound recording, video, or audiovisual media comprising spoken instruction that may be accompanied by music or sound.\n\nThe notion of a \"mind's eye\" goes back at least to Cicero's reference to mentis oculi during his discussion of the orator's appropriate use of simile.\n\nIn this discussion, Cicero observed that allusions to \"the Syrtis of his patrimony\" and \"the Charybdis of his possessions\" involved similes that were \"too far-fetched\"; and he advised the orator to, instead, just speak of \"the rock\" and \"the gulf\" (respectively) — on the grounds that \"the eyes of the mind are more easily directed to those objects which we have seen, than to those which we have only heard\".\n\nThe concept of \"the mind's eye\" first appeared in English in Chaucer's (c.1387) Man of Law's Tale in his Canterbury Tales, where he tells us that one of the three men dwelling in a castle was blind, and could only see with \"the eyes of his mind\"; namely, those eyes \"with which all men see after they have become blind\".\n\nThere are two fundamental ways by which mental imagery is generated: voluntary and involuntary.\n\nThe involuntary and spontaneous generation of mental images is integral to ordinary sensory perception, and cognition, and occurs without volitional intent. Meanwhile, many different aspects of everyday problem solving, scientific reasoning, and creative activity involve the volitional and deliberate generation of mental images.\n\nThe generation of involuntary mental imagery is created directly from present sensory stimulation and perceptual information, such as when someone sees an object, creates mental images of it, and maintains this imagery as they look away or close their eyes; or when someone hears a noise and maintains an auditory image of it, after the sound ceases or is no longer perceptible.\n\nVoluntary mental imagery may resemble previous sensory perception and experience, recalled from memory; or the images may be entirely novel and the product of fantasy.\n\nThe term \"guided imagery\" denotes the technique used in the second (voluntary) instance, by which images are recalled from long-term or short-term memory, or created from fantasy, or a combination of both, in response to guidance, instruction, or supervision. Guided imagery is therefore the assisted simulation or re-creation of perceptual experience across sensory modalities.\n\nMental imagery can result from both voluntary and involuntary processes, and although it comprises simulation or recreation of perceptual experience across all sensory modalities, including olfactory imagery, gustatory imagery, haptic imagery, and motor imagery. Nonetheless, visual and auditory mental images are reported as being the most frequently experienced by people ordinarily as well as in controlled experiments, with visual imagery remaining the most extensively researched and documented in scientific literature.\n\nIn experimental and cognitive psychology, researchers have concentrated primarily on voluntary and deliberately generated imagery, which the participant or patient creates, inspects, and transforms, such as by evoking imagery of an intimidating social event, and transforming the images into those indicative of a pleasant and self-affirming experience.\n\nIn psychopathology, clinicians have typically focused on involuntary imagery which \"comes to mind\" unbidden, such as in a depressed person's experience of intrusive unwelcome negative images indicative of sadness, hopelessness, and morbidity; or images that recapitulate previous distressing events that characterize posttraumatic stress disorder.\n\nIn clinical practice and psychopathology, involuntary mental images are considered intrusive when they occur unwanted and unbidden, \"hijacking attention\" to some extent.\n\nThe maintenance of, or \"holding in mind\" imagery, whether voluntary or involuntary, places considerable demands upon cognitive attentional resources, including working memory, redirecting them away from a specific cognitive task or general-purpose concentration and toward the imagery.\n\nIn clinical practice, this process can be positively exploited therapeutically by training the participant or patient to focus attention on a significantly demanding task, which successfully competes for and directs attention away from the unbidden intrusive imagery, decreasing its intensity, vividness, and duration, and consequently alleviating distress or pain.\n\nMental imagery, especially visual and auditory imagery, can exacerbate and aggravate a number of mental and physical conditions.\n\nThis is because, according to the principles of psychophysiology and psychoneuroimmunology, the way an individual perceives his or her mental and physical condition in turn affects biological processes, including susceptibility to illness, infection, or disease; and that perception is derived significantly from mental imagery. That is to say that in some cases, the severity of an individual's mental and physical disability, disorder, or illness is partially determined by his or her images, including their content, vividness or intensity, clarity, and frequency with which they are experienced as intrusive and unbidden.\n\nAn individual can aggravate the symptoms and intensify the pain or distress precipitated by many conditions through generating, often involuntarily, mental imagery that emphasizes its severity.\n\nFor example, mental imagery has been shown to play a key role in contributing to, exacerbating, or intensifying the experience and symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), compulsive cravings, eating disorders such as anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa, spastic hemiplegia, incapacitation following a stroke or cerebrovascular accident, restricted cognitive function and motor control due to multiple sclerosis, social anxiety or phobia, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and depression.\n\nThe aforementioned challenges and difficulties are some of those for which there is evidence to show that an individual can aggravate the symptoms and intensify the pain or distress precipitated by the condition through generating mental imagery that emphasizes its severity.\n\nThe following elaborates the way in which such mental imagery contributes to or aggravates four specific conditions:\n\n\nPosttraumatic stress disorder often proceeds from experiencing or witnessing a traumatic event involving death, serious injury, or significant threat to others or oneself; and disturbing intrusive images, often described by the patient as 'flashbacks', are a common symptom of this condition across demographics of age, gender, and the nature of the precipitating traumatic event. This unbidden mental imagery is often highly vivid, and provokes memories of the original trauma, accompanied by heightened emotions or feelings and the subjective experience of danger and threat to safety in the present \"here and now\".\n\nIndividuals with social anxiety have a higher than normal tendency to fear situations that involve public attention, such as speaking to an audience or being interviewed, meeting people with whom they are unfamiliar, and attending events of an unpredictable nature. As with posttraumatic stress disorder, vivid mental imagery is a common experience for those with social anxiety, and often comprises images that revive and replay a previously experienced stressful, intimidating or harrowing event that precipitated negative feelings, such as embarrassment, shame, or awkwardness. Thereby, mental imagery contributes to the maintenance and persistence of social anxiety, as it does with posttraumatic stress disorder.\n\nIn particular, the mental imagery commonly described by those suffering from social anxiety often comprises what cognitive psychologists describe as an \"observer perspective\". This consists of an image of themselves, as though from an observing person's perspective, in which those suffering from social anxiety perceive themselves negatively, as if from that observing person's point of view. Such imagery is also common among those suffering from other types of anxiety, who often have depleted ability to generate neutral, positive, or pleasant imagery.\n\nThe capacity to evoke pleasant and positively affirming imagery, either voluntarily or involuntarily, may be a critical requisite for precipitating and sustaining positive moods or feelings and optimism; and this ability is often impaired in those suffering from depression. Depression consists of emotional distress and cognitive impairment that may include feelings of hopelessness, pervasive sadness, pessimism, lack of motivation, social withdrawal, difficulty in concentrating on mental or physical tasks, and disrupted sleep.\n\nWhilst depression is frequently associated with negative rumination of verbal thought patterns manifested as unspoken inner speech, ninety percent of depressed patients reporting distressing intrusive mental imagery that often simulates and recollect previous negative experiences, and which the depressed person often interprets in a way that intensifies feelings of despair and hopelessness. In addition, people suffering from depression have difficulty in evoking prospective imagery indicative of a positive future. The prospective mental imagery experienced by depressed persons when at their most despairing commonly includes vivid and graphic images related to suicide, which some psychologists and psychiatrists refer to as \"flash-forwards\".\n\nBipolar disorder is characterized by manic episodes interspersed with periods of depression; 90% of patients experience comorbid anxiety disorder at some stage; and there is a significant prevalence of suicide amongst sufferers. Prospective mental imagery indicative of hyperactivity or mania and hopelessness contributes to the manic and depressive episodes respectively in bipolar disorder.\n\nThe therapeutic use of guided imagery, as part of a multimodal treatment plan incorporating other suitable methods, such as guided meditation, receptive music therapy, and relaxation techniques, as well as physical medicine and rehabilitation, and psychotherapy, aims to educate the patient in altering their mental imagery, replacing images that compound pain, recollect and reconstruct distressing events, intensify feelings of hopelessness, or reaffirm debilitation, with those that emphasize physical comfort, functional capacity, mental equanimity, and optimism.\n\nWhether the guided imagery is provided in person by a facilitator, or delivered via media, the verbal instruction consists of words, often pre-scripted, intended to direct the participant's attention to imagined visual, auditory, tactile, gustatory or olfactory sensations that precipitate a positive psychologic and physiologic response that incorporates increased mental and physical relaxation and decreased mental and physical stress.\n\nGuided imagery is one of the means by which therapists, teachers, or practitioners seek to achieve this outcome, and involves encouraging patients or participants to imagine alternative perspectives, thoughts, and behaviors, mentally rehearsing strategies that they may subsequently actualize, thereby developing increased coping skills and ability.\n\nAccording to the computational theory of imagery, which is derived from experimental psychology, guided imagery comprises four phases:\n\nImage generation involves generating mental imagery, either directly from sensory data and perceptual experience, or from memory, or from fantasy.\n\nImage maintenance involves the volitional sustaining or maintaining of imagery, without which, a mental image is subject to rapid decay with an average duration of only 250ms. This is because volitionally created mental images usually fade rapidly once generated in order to avoid disrupting or confusing the process of ordinary sensory perception.\n\nThe natural brief duration of mental imagery means that the active maintenance stage of guided imagery, which is necessary for the subsequent stages of inspection and transformation, requires cognitive concentration of attention by the participant. This concentrative attentional ability can be improved with the practice of mental exercises, including those derived from guided meditation and supervised meditative praxis. Even with such practice, some people can struggle to maintain a mental image \"clearly in mind\" for more than a few seconds; not only for imagery created through fantasy but also for mental images generated from both long-term memory and short-term memory.\n\nIn addition, while the majority of the research literature has tended to focus on the maintenance of visual mental images, imagery in other sensory modalities also necessitates a volitional maintenance process in order for further inspection or transformation to be possible.\n\nThe requisite for practice in sustaining attentional control, such that attention remains focused on maintaining generated imagery, is one of the reasons that guided meditation, which supports such concentration, is often integrated into the provision of guided imagery as part of the intervention. Guided meditation assists participants in extending the duration for which generated mental images are maintained, providing time to inspect the imagery, and proceed to the final transformation stage of guided imagery.\n\nOnce generated and maintained, a mental image can be inspected to provide the basis for interpretation, and transformation. For visual imagery, inspection often involves a scanning process, by which the participant directs attention across and around an image, simulating shifts in perceptual perspective.\n\nInspection processes can be applied both to imagery created spontaneously, and to imagery generated in response to scripted or impromptu verbal descriptions provided by the facilitator.\n\nFinally, with the assistance of verbal instruction from the guided imagery practitioner or teacher, the participant transforms, modifies, or alters the content of generated mental imagery, in such a way as to substitute images that provoke negative feelings, are indicative of suffering, or that reaffirm disability or debilitation for those that elicit positive emotion, and are suggestive of resourcefulness, ability to cope, and an increased degree of mental and physical capacity.\n\nThis process shares principles with those that inform the clinical psychology techniques of \"imagery restructuring\" or \"imagery re-scripting\" as used in cognitive behavioral therapy.\n\nWhile the majority of research findings on image transformation relate to visual mental imagery, there is evidence to support transformations in other sensory modalities such as auditory imagery. and haptic imagery.\n\nThrough this technique, a patient is assisted in reducing the tendency to evoke images indicative of the distressing, painful, or debilitative nature of a condition, and learns instead to evoke mental imagery of their identity, body, and circumstances that emphasizes the capacity for autonomy and self-determination, positive proactive activity, and the ability to cope, whilst managing their condition.\n\nAs a result, symptoms become less incapacitating, pain is to some degree decreased, while coping skills increase.\n\nIn order for the foregoing process to take place effectively, such that all four stages of guided imagery are completed with therapeutic beneficial effect, the patient or participant must be capable of or susceptible to absorption, which is an \"openness to absorbing and self-altering experiences\". This is a further reason why guided meditation or some form of meditative praxis, relaxation techniques, and meditation music or receptive music therapy are often combined with or form an integral part of the operational and practical use of the guided imagery intervention. For, all those techniques can increase the participant's or patient's capacity for or susceptibility to absorption, thereby increasing the potential efficacy of guided imagery.\n\nThe United States National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH), which is among twenty-seven organizations that make up the National Institutes of Health (NIH), classifies guided imagery and guided meditation, as mind–body interventions, one of five domains of medical and health care systems, practices, and products that are not presently considered part of conventional medicine.\n\nThe NCCIH defines mind-body interventions as those practices that \"employ a variety of techniques designed to facilitate the mind's capacity to affect bodily function and symptoms\", and include guided imagery, guided meditation and forms of meditative praxis, hypnosis and hypnotherapy, prayer, as well as art therapy, music therapy, and dance therapy.\n\nAll mind–body interventions, including the aforementioned, focus on the interaction between the brain, body, and behavior and are practiced with intention to use the mind to alter physical function and promote overall health and wellbeing.\n\nThere are documented benefits of mind-body interventions derived from scientific research firstly into their use in contributing to the treatment a range of conditions including headaches, coronary artery disease and chronic pain; secondly in ameliorating the symptoms of chemotherapy-induced nausea, vomiting, and localised physical pain in patients with cancer; thirdly in increasing the perceived capacity to cope with significant problems and challenges; and fourthly in improving the reported overall quality-of-life. In addition, there is evidence supporting the brain and central nervous system's influence on the immune system and the capacity for mind-body interventions to enhance immune function outcomes, including defense against and recovery from infection and disease.\n\nGuided imagery has also demonstrated efficacy in reducing postoperative discomfort as well as chronic pain related to cancer, arthritis, and physical injury. Furthermore, the non-clinical uses for which the efficacy of guided imagery has been shown include managing the stress of public performance among musicians, enhancing athletic and competitive sports ability, and training medical students in surgical skills. The evidence that it is effective for non-musculoskeletal pain is encouraging but not definitive.\n\nEvidence and explanations for the effectiveness and limitations of creative visualization come from two discreet sources: cognitive psychology and psychoneuroimmunology.\n\nGuided imagery is employed as an adjunctive technique to psychological therapies in the treatment of many conditions, including those identified in the previous sections. It plays a significant role in the application of cognitive approaches to psychotherapy, including cognitive behavioral therapy, rational emotive behavior therapy, schema therapy, and mindfulness-based cognitive therapy.\n\nThese therapies derive from or draw substantially upon a model of mental functioning initially established by Aaron T. Beck, a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who posited that the subjective way in which people perceive themselves and interpret experiences influences their emotional, behavioral, and physiological reactions to circumstances. He additionally discovered that by assisting patients in correcting their misperceptions and misinterpretations, and aiding them in modifying unhelpful and self-deprecating ways of thinking about themselves and their predicament, his patients had more productive reactions to events, and developed a more positive self-concept, self-image, or perception of themselves.\n\nThis use of guided imagery is based on the following premise. Everyone participates in both the voluntary and involuntary spontaneous generation of visual, auditory and other mental images, which is a necessary part of the way in which a person solves problems, recollects the past, predicts and plans the future, and formulates their self-perception, self-image, or the way they 'view' and perceive themselves.\n\nHowever, this self-image can be altered and self-regulated with the aid of mind-body interventions including guided imagery, by which an individual changes the way he or she visualizes, imagines, and perceives themselves generally, and their physical condition, body image, and mental state specifically.\n\nThe term \"psychoneuroimmunology\" was coined by American psychologist Robert Ader in 1981 to describe the study of interactions between psychological, neurological, and immune systems.\n\nThree years later, Jean Achterberg published a book called \"Imagery in Healing\" that sought to relate and correlate contemporaneous evidence from the then emerging scientific study of the way mental processes influence physical and physiological function, with particular emphasis on mental imagery, to the folklore she extrapolated from a set of diverse ancient and geographically indigenous practices previously described as 'shamanism' by the historian of religion and professor at the University of Chicago, Mircea Eliade; and a number of anthropologists and ethnologists.\n\nThe fundamental hypothesis of psychoneuroimmunology is concisely that the way people think and how they feel directly influences the electrochemistry of the brain and central nervous system, which in turn has a significant influence on the immune system and its capacity to defend the body against disease, infection, and ill health. Meanwhile, the immune system affects brain chemistry and its electrical activity, which in turn has a considerable impact on the way we think and feel.\n\nBecause of this interplay, a person's negative thoughts, feelings, and perceptions, such as pessimistic predictions about the future, regretful ruminations upon the past, low self-esteem, and depleted belief in self-determination and a capacity to cope can undermine the efficiency of the immune system, increasing vulnerability to ill health. Simultaneously, the biochemical indicators of ill health monitored by the immune system feeds back to the brain via the nervous system, which exacerbates thoughts and feelings of a negative nature. That is to say, we feel and think of ourselves as unwell, which contributes to physical conditions of ill health, which in turn cause us to feel and think of ourselves as unwell.\n\nHowever, the interplay between cognitive and emotional, neurological, and immunological processes also provides for the possibility of positively influencing the body and enhancing physical health by changing the way we think and feel. For example, people who are able to deconstruct the cognitive distortions that precipitate perpetual pessimism and hopelessness and further develop the capacity to perceive themselves as having a significant degree of self-determination and capacity to cope are more likely to avoid and recover from ill health more quickly than those who remain engaged in negative thoughts and feelings.\n\nThis simplification of a complex interaction of interrelated systems and the capacity of the mind to influence the body does not account for the significant influence that other factors have on mental and physical well-being, including exercise, diet, and social interaction.\n\nNonetheless, in helping people to make such changes to their habitual thought processes and pervasive feelings, mind-body interventions, including creative visualization, when provided as part of a multimodal and interdisciplinary treatment program of other methods, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, have been shown to contribute significantly to treatment of and recovery from a range of conditions.\n\nIn addition, there is evidence supporting the brain and central nervous system's influence on the immune system and the capacity for mind-body interventions to enhance immune function outcomes, including defense against and recovery from infection and disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "46525908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46525908", "title": "Gunnar Alksnis", "text": "Gunnar Alksnis\n\nGunnar Alksnis (July 1, 1931 – May 15, 2011) was a Latvian-American philosopher and theologian who was specialized in ethics and history of philosophy.\n\nAlksnis was born as Gunārs Alksnis on July 1, 1931, in Riga, the capital of Latvia. His parents were John Edward Alksnis and Elza Alksnis. The Alksnis family came to the United States in 1949. In 1955 Gunnar Alksnis received a Bachelor of divinity degree. One year later he was ordained as a minister of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America at Trinity Church in Russell County, Kansas. He married Pauline Elizabeth Krug (1933-2014) in 1957. The couple had two children, John Albert and Maria.\n\nIn 1965 Gunnar Alksnis received the academic degree of a Master of Sacred Theology. He became Ph.D. at Kansas State University after submitting a thesis on the critique of rationalism in the German Lebensphilosophie in 1970. In 1968 Gunnar Alksnis was appointed Professor at Washburn University in Topeka, Kansas. For more than 30 years he taught history of philosophy and theology.\n\nAfter his retirement in 2000 Gunnar and Pauline Alksnis moved to Woodland, California. He continued to write and actively worked for churches in woodland and Davis giving lectures on Martin Luther and the Reformation. His articles touch upon a diversity of topics including history, religion and philosophy. He died on May 15, 2011, in Woodland.\n\nGunnar Alksnis was interested in the history of Actuarial science. He was a specialist on (1831-1893), who first proposed the variation of preliminary term reserves in 1863. \nAlksnis was most interested in the philosophy of Ludwig Klages who drew a distinction between life-affirming \"Seele\" (soul) and life-destroying \"Geist\" (spirit/mind) as the forces of \"modern, industrial, and intellectual rationalization.\" Four years after Alksnis death his PhD thesis from 1970 was finally published under the title \"Chthonic Gnosis. Ludwig Klages and his Quest for the Pandaemonic All\". Gunnar Alksnis tried to explain history through biography, because he thought that the unsurpassed way to comprehend an era is to understand the life and profiles of its leaders.\n\nIn memory of Gunnar Alksnis Washburn University established the “Prof. Gunnar Alksnis History Scholarship”. This scholarship is awarded to students “with demonstrated enthusiasm for scholarly activity in History.“\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26365364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26365364", "title": "Index of philosophy of science articles", "text": "Index of philosophy of science articles\n\nAn index list of articles about the philosophy of science.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1732234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1732234", "title": "Inductionism", "text": "Inductionism\n\nInductionism is the scientific philosophy where laws are \"induced\" from sets of data. As an example, one might measure the strength of electrical forces at varying distances from charges and induce the inverse square law of electrostatics.\n\n"}
{"id": "240934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=240934", "title": "J. L. Mackie", "text": "J. L. Mackie\n\nJohn Leslie Mackie, FBA (25 August 1917 – 12 December 1981), was an Australian philosopher, originally from Sydney. He made significant contributions to the philosophy of religion, metaphysics, and the philosophy of language, and is perhaps best known for his views on meta-ethics, especially his defence of moral scepticism.\n\nHe authored six books. His most widely known, \"Ethics: Inventing Right and Wrong\" (1977), opens by boldly stating that \"There are no objective values.\" It goes on to argue that because of this ethics must be invented, rather than discovered.\n\nMackie was born 25 August 1917 in Killara, Sydney. His mother, Annie Burnett Duncan, was a schoolteacher, and his father, Alexander Mackie, was professor of education at the University of Sydney as well as the principal of the Sydney Teachers College, and was influential in the educational system of New South Wales. He graduated from the University of Sydney in 1938 after studying under John Anderson, sharing the medal in philosophy with eminent jurist Harold Glass. Mackie received the Wentworth Travelling Fellowship to study Greats at Oriel College, Oxford, where he graduated with a first in 1940.\n\nDuring World War II Mackie served with the Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers in the Middle East and Italy, and was mentioned in dispatches. He was professor of philosophy at the University of Otago in New Zealand from 1955 to 1959 and succeeded Anderson as the Challis Professor of Philosophy at the University of Sydney from 1959 to 1963. In 1963, he moved to the United Kingdom, becoming the inaugural holder of the chair of philosophy in the University of York, a position he held until 1967 when he was instead elected a fellow of University College, Oxford, where he served as praelector. In 1969, he gave a lecture entitled 'What’s Really Wrong with Phenomenalism?' at the British Academy as part of its annual Philosophical Lectures series. In 1974, he became a fellow of the British Academy.\n\nHe died in Oxford on 12 December 1981.\n\nMackie is said to have been capable of expressing total disagreement in such a genial way that the person being addressed might mistake the comment for a compliment. This personal style is exemplified by the following words from the preface to Mackie's \"Ethics: Inventing Right and Wrong\" (1977, p. 3):\n\nI am nowhere mainly concerned to refute any individual writer. I believe that all those to whom I have referred, even those with whom I disagree most strongly, have contributed significantly to our understanding of ethics: where I have quoted their actual words, it is because they have presented views or arguments more clearly or more forcefully than I could put them myself.\n\nMackie married Joan Meredith in 1947. One of Mackie's three daughters, Penelope Mackie, also became a philosopher. She lectured in Philosophy at the University of Birmingham from 1994 to 2004, and was appointed Head of the Department of Philosophy at the University of Nottingham in 2007. Mackie's younger son, David, is also a philosopher and graduated from Oxford University where he held lectureships at Exeter College, Corpus Christi College and Christ Church before being appointed a Fellow and Tutor at Oriel College. he teaches at D'Overbroeck's College, Oxford. Mackie's other daughter, Hilary, is a classicist at Rice University.\n\nMackie is best known for his contributions to the fields of meta-ethics, philosophy of religion, and metaphysics. In meta-ethics, he took a position called moral scepticism, arguing against the objective existence of \"right\" and \"wrong\" as intrinsically normative entities on fundamental grounds as unsure about what kinds of things such entities would be, if they existed.\n\nHis perhaps most widely known work, \"Ethics: Inventing Right and Wrong\", bluntly begins with the opening sentence \"There are no objective values\". He uses several arguments to support this claim that objective values are false. He argues that some aspects of moral thought are relative, and that objective morals require an absurd intrinsic action-guiding feature. Most of all, he thinks it is very unclear how objective values could supervene on features of the natural world (see the \"Argument from queerness\"). Fourth, he thinks it would be difficult to justify our knowledge of \"value entities\" or account for any links or consequences they would have. And, finally, he thinks it is possible to show that even without any objective values, people would still have reason to firmly believe in them (hence, he claims that it is possible for people to be mistaken or fooled into believing that objective values exist). \"The Times\" called the book \"a lucid discussion of moral theory which, although aimed at the general reader, has attracted a good deal of professional attention.\"\nConcerning religion, he was well known for vigorously defending atheism, and also arguing that the problem of evil made untenable the main monotheistic religions. His criticisms of the free will defence are particularly significant. He argued that the idea of human free will is no defense for those who wish to believe in an omnicompetent being in the face of evil and suffering, as such a being could have given us both free will and moral perfection, thus resulting in us choosing the good in every situation. In 1955 he published one of his \"Evil and Omnipotence\", summarizing his view that the simultaneous existence of evil and an all-powerful, all-knowing and all-good God was \"positively irrational\". Mackie's views on this so-called logical problem of evil prompted Alvin Plantinga to respond with his version of the Free Will Defense to which Mackie later responded in his \"The Miracle of Theism\".\n\nIn metaphysics, Mackie made significant contributions relating to the nature of causal relationships, especially regarding conditional statements describing them (see, for example, Mackie 1974) and the notion of an INUS condition.\n\nUpon being given a copy of Richard Dawkins' \"The Selfish Gene\" as a Christmas present, he in 1978 wrote an article in the journal \"Philosophy\" praising the book and discussing how its ideas might be applied to moral philosophy. Philosopher Mary Midgley responded in 1979 with \"Gene-Juggling\", an article arguing that \"The Selfish Gene\" was about psychological egoism, rather than evolution. This started a dispute between Mackie, Midgley, and Dawkins that was still ongoing at the time of Mackie's death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35622347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35622347", "title": "James Boevey", "text": "James Boevey\n\nJames Boevey (1622–1696) (pronounced \"Boovey\") was an English merchant, lawyer and philosopher of Huguenot parentage.\n\nHe was born in London at 6 a.m. on 7 May 1622 in Mincing Lane, in the parish of St. Dunstan-in-the-East. He was the youngest son of Andreas Boevey (c. 1566–1625) by his second wife Joanna der Wilde (d.1644), daughter of Peter der Wilde. Andreas Boevey was a Dutch Huguenot from Courtrai in Flanders who had been brought to England aged 7 by his Huguenot parents following the invasion of the Low Countries by the Duke of Alva and the Duke's subsequent persecutions. Andreas had nine children by his first wife Esther Fenn and two by his second wife, the eldest of whom was James. James's mother remarried in 1628 Johannes van Abeele, a widower and member of the Dutch emigree community in Norwich\n\nHe was educated at the Mercers' School in London, where his tutor was Mr Augur. In 1631 he went to the Netherlands to complete his schooling in Latin and Greek. In 1636 he embarked on a \"grand tour\" of Europe to perfect his cultural education.\n\nBoevey started his career working for the Dutch-born financier Sir William Courten (d.1636), discoverer of Barbados. Boeve married in 1638 Susanna Dwyer, the niece of John Money, Courten's business partner in the great firm of silk and linen merchants Courten and Money. He then worked as cashier for the banker Dierik Hoste, and also for the Spanish Ambassador in London.\n\nDuring the Commonwealth whilst King Charles II was in exile on the continent, James Boevey was described in a petition later made by his son-in-law Captain William Hinton as: \"Mr James Boeve of Middleburg in Zeeland... the person through whom most of the King's business passed during his exile, a duty which he fulfilled with integrity and with expense even to ruin. Yet he never asked reward, and declared that he would be satisfied if his son-in-law obtained the Government of Newfoundland\". Hinton was later appointed Governor of Newfoundland.\n\nThe following record dated 29 June 1672 from the Calendar of Treasury Books explains the circumstances of Boevey's jail sentence in Zealand: \nRepresentation to the King from the Treasury Lords concerning the case of Mr. James Bovey (Bovy), referred to said Lords by the order of Council of March 22 last, to hear and examine, in order to your Majesty's insisting upon reasonable satisfaction for your said injured subject when it shall be reasonable. Said James Boeve, merchant of London, married Susanna Dwyer, the daughter of John Moneye['s] only sister, who died in 1631 at Middleburg in Zealand, and left said Susanna a legacy of £2,000, as likewise the same legacy to the other sister Hester, who was married to John White and received her legacy from Sir William Courteen, who with one Boudean [Bowden], the son of Peter Bouden (whose window Money married), was left executor. When James Boven came to demand his legacy in the right of Susanna, his wife, Bowden, the other executor, who had drawn the most part of the estate into his hands, delayed him payment for four or five years with fair speeches. At last Boeve, finding himself abused, commenced his suit at Middleburg and obtained sentence for the payment of the legacy and interest. For the execution of this sentence he solicited a long time, but although your Majesty wrote in 1660, Aug. 15 to the States of Zealand that he might have the benefit of the sentence, yet nothing was done therein. By the law and custom there, there is no appeal to the High Court of Justice before such sentence given be performed, yet, notwithstanding, an appeal to the Great Council at the Hague was obtained and hath there depended ever since, your Majesty's letter to the States General demanding justice to be done to the said Boeve and the frequent solicitations of your minister for the expedition thereof being not at all regarded, but he hath been still delayed and denied having any end thereof. And not only was this injustice used towards the said Boeve but also they found means by false suggestions and pretences of debt, by a sentence of the Court of Admiralty of Zealand, to throw the said Boeve in prison without being heard by himself or his attorney, and continued all these injuries and injustices by the practice of the said Peter Bowden, who is a Comr. in the East India Company, although it appeared by an Act in the said court that the said suggestions and pretences are false. By all which said Boeve has been damaged above £20,000, besides the utter ruin of his credit and trade by being detained three years in prison. We represent his condition to your Majesty as a suitable time for your Majesty to insist on reparation for him by recommending his case to the Duke of Buckingham and the Earl of Arlington, Plenipotentiaries now in Holland, the cause being still depending at the Hague before the High Council and not concluded by any treaty with the States General\".\n\nBoevey withdrew from commerce and studied law at the Inner Temple, to which he was admitted on 10 June 1660. His legal training was largely utilized in launching his own personal law-suits over property in Chelsea, Gloucestershire and in the Netherlands.\n\nBoevey devised what he called \"Active Philosophy\", which might be described today as \"self-help\" literature, which he described in a series of volumes, mostly written in 1665 and 1666, which were never published, but circulated amongst his friends. The volumes still extant are:\n\nAmongst his writings now lost are:\n\nHe was a friend of John Aubrey, John Evelyn and of Elias Ashmole, the latter with whom he shared an interest in the occult. Samuel Pepys dined with him and in his Diaries noted as follows: \"A solicitor and a lawyer and a merchant altogether who hath travelled very much; did talk some things well, only he is a Sir Positive; but talk of travel over the Alps very fine\".\n\nWith his half-brother William, Boevey purchased Flaxley Abbey in the Forest of Dean, Gloucestershire.\n\nIn 1653 he purchased from Cromwell's government the freehold of the former Royal Forest of Exmoor in Somerset, and in 1654 was the first to build a house on the desolate moorland, at a central spot called Simonsbath. The house stands today, known as Simonsbath House (now a hotel) , and retains the carved date of \"1654\" on a beam in the kitchen. He did not persevere long in his residence on Exmoor, and by 1670 he had moved to Whitehall, Cheam in Surrey, whilst retaining his financial interest in the income from Exmoor derived from local graziers, whose rents he increased much to their displeasure.\n\nJames Boevey married thrice. The identity of the mothers of most of his children is known with the exception of \"Bateman\", a married son named in his will. He married as follows:\n\nA portrait of James Boevey was published on page 34 of Crawley-Boevey, A.W.C., The Perverse Widow, Being Passages from the Life of Catharina, Wife of William Boevey, 1898. Also an oil painting portrait is said to exist at Flaxley Abbey. In appearance he was very short, described by Aubrey as: \"5 ft tall, and slenderly built, with extremely black hair curled at the ends, an equally black beard, and the darkest of eyebrows hovering above dark but sprightly hazel eyes\" In character he was deemed by Aubrey \"A person of great temperance and deepe thoughts, and a working head never idle, ever a great lover of Natural Philosophie. From fourteen he had a candle burning by him all night with pen, inke and paper to write downe thoughts as they came into his head, so that he might not loose a thought\".\n\nHe died at Cheam and was buried on 13 January 1695 as his mural monument in the Lumley Chapel in the grounds of St Dunstans Church records: \"In memory of James Bovey \"(sic)\" Esq.r who was buried near this place Jan.ry ye 13th 1695. And also of Margaretta his wife buried here August ye 3d. 1714 in ye 76th year of her age\".\n\nThe probate transcript of James Boevey's last will and testament, dated 7 William III (i.e. 1694), (day and month apparently omitted or illegible on copy) is held by the National Archives at Kew In it he leaves all his property to his wife Margaret, and only the small sums of ten pounds each to his son Bateman, otherwise unknown of, and to the latter's wife. His son William had predeceased him in 1692.\nIn the name of God Amen. I James Boevey of Cheam in the county of Surrey Esq. being of sound and perfect memory praised be Almighty God hopeing by his mercy to have everlasting life doe make this my last will and testament. \"Imprimis\" my will is that I be buried privately without ffunerall pomps and solemnities. \"Item\" I give all that lease and interest I have in the house in which I now live in the said parish of Cheam with all the household stuff, plate, linen, goods and chattells whatsoever which shall be found in or about the same at the time of my death unto my loveing wife Margarett Boevey. And as for and concerning all that residue or remainder of my estate or terme of thirty yeares and seven moneths (wherein about twenty seven yeares are yet to come) in the fforest of Exmore in the countys of Devon and Somersett and divers other things ... granted to me by the late Duke of Ormond I give and devise the said lease or term of yeares and fforest with the appurtenances and every other matter and thing so devised to me by the said Duke to my said loveing wife Margarett Boevey. And as for and concerning all that my estate of inheritance in the tythes of the said fforest of Exmore with the appurtenances and all other my hereditaments whatsoever in or near the said fforest by me purchased of James Milles Esq. I give and devise the same and all my right title interest and claim therein in law or equity to my said loveing wife Margarett Boevey and her heires for ever. I give unto my son Bateman and his wife tenn pounds apeace. And whereas I am intituled by virtue of a decree of the High Court of Chancery made in a cause wherein I am p(lainti)ff against Dame Ann Smith widow and John Boevey Def(endan)ts unto two full fifth parts the whole in five equall parts to be divided of certain messuages lands and tenements in Little Chelsea in the county of Midd(lese)x and demanded by the Bill of Complaint exhibited in the said cause and to the rents and profitts of the same and to severall sumes of money due to me for the arrearages of rent thereof. Now my mind and will is And I do hereby give and devise my said two fifth parts of the said messuages lands and tenements and the whole of all other my messuages tenements and hereditaments whatsoever in Chelsea aforesaid and Kensington in the county of Midd(lese)x or either of them And all my estate right title and interest therein unto my dear and loveing wife Margarett Boevey and her heires for ever. \"Item\" I further give and bequeath unto my said wife all and every sume and sumes of money which now are and at the time of my death shall be due unto me for arrearages of rent or for the issues or profitts of the premises aforesaid. \"Item\" I give and bequeath all my moneys in cash and all my cattle and debts oweing to me at the time of my death and all other my goods and chattells reall and personall whatsoever to my said loveing wife Margarett Boevey for her own use whom I hereby make my sole executrix of this my will hereby revoking and making void all former and other wills at any time before by me made touching or concerning the disposall of all or any part of the premisses herein and hereby disposed of given and bequeathed as aforesaid. In testimony whereof I the said James Boevey have hereunto sett my hand and seale this ... day of... and in the seaventh yeare of the reigne of our Soveraigne Lord William the third by the grace of God of England Scotland Ffrance and Ireland King Defender of the Faith Anno Domini one thousand six hundred ninety five – James Boevey – signed sealed published and declared by the said James Boevey as his last will and testament in the presence of us and subscribed and attested in the presence and by the direction of the said testator by us: Samuel Parson; Henry Lloyd; Charles Angiband; Thomas Saige.\n\nProbatum Londini fuit huiusmodi testamentum corum venerabili viro Will'mo King legum doctore surrogato venerabilis et ... viri domini Richardi Raines militis legum etiam doctoris Curia Prerogativa Cantuariensis magistri custodis sive comisarii legitime constitute quinto die mensis ffebruarii Anno Domini (stilo Anglia) millesimo sexcentesimo nonagesimo quinto juramento Margareta Boevey relicta dicti defuncti et executrix in dicte testamento nominata cui comissa fuit administratio omnium et singulorum bonorum jurium et ... dicti defuncti de bene et fideliter administrando eadem ad ... Dei Evangel jurat...(i.e. proved in the Prerogative Court of Canterbury the 5th February 1695 with Margaret Boevey acting as executrix)\nThe armorials of James Boevey as painted on his mural monument (impaled with the arms of his wife) in the Lumley Chapel, nr. St Dunstan's Church, Cheam, Surrey are: \"Ermine, on a bend sable three bezants\". It is unknown whether this monument has been re-painted or restored. The arms of Boevey are given differently by Cleveland as: \"Or, on a chevron sable three plates\". Furthermore on the 1712 engraving of Flaxley Abbey by Johannes Kip published in Robert Atkyns' \"The Ancient & Present State of Gloucestershire\" (published in monochrome & tinted later), when it was the residence of Catherina Boevey, the arms depicted are again different. The grant of arms to Crawley-Boevey is recorded as: \"Ermine, on a bend gules between two martlets sable three guttes d'or\" The latter arms are borne today, but in the form of a chief only above other heraldic elements, by the Crawley-Boevey baronets.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12186797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12186797", "title": "James Brusseau", "text": "James Brusseau\n\nJames Brusseau is a philosopher specializing in contemporary Continental philosophy, history of philosophy and ethics. In 1994 Brusseau joined the faculty of Philosophy and Letters at the Mexican National University in Mexico City teaching graduate courses in philosophy and comparative literature. He has also taught in Europe and the California State University. Currently he teaches at Pace University in New York City. Brusseau took a Ph.D. in Philosophy under the direction of Alphonso Lingis. He is married to a Spaniard and has two children.\n\nBrusseau's scholarship focuses on philosophical decadence, which he defines as philosophers stepping aside from the task of making accurate theories about the larger world, and instead endeavoring to produce theories that in their turn provoke more theorizing. Within this framework, whether a philosopher is actually right about things becomes a secondary or derivative concern. The guiding purpose is to provoke more strictly philosophical discussion and study. As a result, the best philosophical idea directly equals the one producing the most subsequent philosophizing.\n\nBrusseau attempts to locate decadence in the history of philosophy at Friedrich Nietzsche’s appropriation by recent French philosophers including Michel Foucault, Gilles Deleuze and Jacques Derrida. He calls the moment a “reversal” in philosophy’s history, one where thought no longer exists to pursue truth, instead, truths exist to serve and accelerate thinking.\n\nIt is unclear from Brusseau’s published work and lectures whether he considers this development to be negative, neutral or positive.\n\nBrusseau's \"Business Ethics Workshop\" focuses on philosophical approaches to the corporation’s role in society, and ethical questions arising around branding and the creation of product reputation. The fabrication of consumer needs and consumer identity is also considered.\n\nBrusseau's \"Dignity, Pleasures, Vulgarity: Philosophy and Animal Rights\" asks how animal studies reflect back to reveal human truths.\n\nThe documentary \"Wealth Inequality Workshop\" unites utilitarianism, Rawls, Nozick, Bataille and Deleuze to explore theoretical dilemmas of wealth inequality. Brusseau argues that the philosophies of Bataille and Deleuze can be mobilized both to allow and limit wealth inequality. \n\nBrusseau's novel \"Empire of Humiliation\" is set in Mexico City.\n\n"}
{"id": "29393691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29393691", "title": "Jeffrey Checkel", "text": "Jeffrey Checkel\n\nJeffrey T. Checkel is an American academic associated with the theory of constructivist school of international relations.\n"}
{"id": "29774024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29774024", "title": "Justin Clemens", "text": "Justin Clemens\n\nJustin Clemens (born 22 April 1969) is an Australian academic known for his work on Alain Badiou, psychoanalysis, European philosophy, and contemporary Australian art and literature. He is also a published poet.\n\nClemens studied at the University of Melbourne, gaining his PhD on \"Institution, aesthetics, nihilism : the Romanticism of contemporary theory\" in 1999.\n\nHe then lectured in Psychoanalytic Studies at Deakin University, before moving to the School of Culture and Communication at the University of Melbourne in the late 2000s where he is Senior Lecturer.\n\nClemens is art critic for the Australian magazine \"The Monthly\". He has a daughter.\n\nIn his extensive published work, he writes on psychoanalysis, contemporary European philosophy, and literature. Clemens has also published poetry and prose fiction.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41929417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41929417", "title": "Lataif-e-sitta", "text": "Lataif-e-sitta\n\nLataif-e-sitta () or al-Laṭtaʾif as-Sitta (), meaning \"The Six Subtleties\", are psychospiritual \"organs\" or, sometimes, faculties of sensory and suprasensory perception in Sufi psychology, and are explained here according to the usage amongst certain Sufi groups. These six subtleties are thought to be parts of the self in a similar manner to the way glands and organs are part of the body.\n\nDrawing from the Qur'an, many Sufis distinguish Nafs (نفس), Qalb (قلب), Sirr (سیر), Ruh (روح), Khafi (خفی), and Akhfa (اخفٰی) as the six \"laṭaʾif\".\n\nAmong Sufis spiritual development involves awakening centers of perception that lie dormant in every person. The help of a guide is considered necessary to help activate them in a certain order. Each center is associated with a particular color, a general area of the body, and often with a particular prophet. Activation of all these \"centers\" is part of the inner methodology of the Sufi way or \"Work\".\n\nPurification of the elementary passionate nature (\"tazkiyat an-nafs\"), cleansing the spiritual heart (\"tazkiyat al-qalb\"), becoming a receptacle of divine love (\"ishq\"), illumination of the spirit (\"tajjali ar-ruh\"), emptying egocentric drives (\"taqliyyat as-sirr\") and remembering the divine attributes, often through repetition of the names of God, (\"dhikr\") are a process by which the dervish is said to reach a certain type of \"completion\" in the opening of the last two faculties, \"khafi\" and \"akhfa\".\n\nAccording to some, this latifa is located slightly below the navel, and is yellow, for others, it is between the eyebrows and is blue. \n\nThe word nafs is usually translated as self or psyche. Its etymology is rooted in \"breath\" (similar to Biblical or Kabbalistic nefesh) and is common to virtually all archaic psychologies where the act of breathing was connected with life, animating otherwise lifeless object. Some Sufis consider under the term \"Nafs\" the entirety of psychological processes, encompassing whole mental, emotional and volitional life; however, the majority of Quranic-based Sufis are of the opinion that Nafs is a \"lower\", egotistical and passionate human nature which, along with Tab (literally, physical nature), comprises vegetative and animal aspects of human life. Ego may be assumed as an equivalent for Nafs in modern psychology. The central aim of the Sufi path is transformation of Nafs (technical term is \"tazkīyyat an-nafs\" or \"purging of the soul\") from its deplorable state of ego-centredness through various psycho-spiritual stages to the purity and submission to the will of God.\n\nAlthough the majority of the Sufi orders have adopted convenient 7 maqāms (maqāms are permanent stages on the voyage towards spiritual transformation), and some still operate with 3 stages, the picture is clear: the Sufi's journey begins with \"an-nafs al-ʾammārah\" (commanding soul), \"an-nafs al-lawwāmah\" (self-accusing soul), and ends in \"an-nafs al-mutṭmaʾinnah\" (satisfied soul) - although some Sufi's final stage is, in their technical vocabulary, \"an-nafs aṣ-ṣāfīyah wa-al-kāmilah\" (soul restful and perfected). In essence, this is almost identical to Christian paradigm of the via purgativa encompassing the various stages through which the spiritual aspirant passes in the journey toward God.\n\nAccording to some , this latifa is located in the left of Chest, four fingers below the nipple and is golden yellow, for others it is red. In it man witnesses his deeds. By awakening it man also gets the knowledge of the realm of jinn.\n\nThe word Qalb, stands for heart. In Sufi terminology, this spiritual heart (not to be confused with the blood pumping organ) is again variously described. For some, it is the seat of beatific vision. Others consider it the gate of Ishq or Divine love. Yet, for the majority, it is the battleground of two warring armies: those of Nafs and Ruh or spirit. Here, one again encounters terminological confusion: for the Sufis influenced by Neoplatonism, a \"higher\" part of Nafs is equated to the Aql or intellect (called Nafs-I-Natiqa) or \"rational soul\" and is the central active agent in spiritual battle: Ruh or spirit, notwithstanding its name, is rather passive in this stage. In short, cleansing of the Qalb or heart is a necessary spiritual discipline for travellers on the Sufi path. The term for this process is Tazkiah-I-Qalb and the aim is the erasure of everything that stands in the way of purifying God's love or Ishq. \n\nOften people take their heart's word (inner feeling) as truthful. If the hearts were indeed truthful, then why are not all the people of the heart united? Qalb of the common folk is in a sleeping or unconscious state, and does not possess any awareness or correct understanding. This heart can err in judgement due to the dominance of the Self and Khannas (the Whisperer), or due to the person's own simple-mindedness. Placing trust in a sleeping (or unconscious) heart is foolish. When the Name Allah does vibrate in the heart, an awareness of Right and Wrong and understanding follow. It is then called Qalb-e Salim (the sound Heart). Then the prominence of the meditation by Qalb changes its direction towards God; it is called Qalb-e Minib (the repentant Heart). This heart can prevent a person from mischief, but it can not make a right judgement. When the theophanies (Tajalliyat) of God begin to fall on the Heart, it is called Qalb-eshahid (the witnessing Heart).\n\nAccording to some, this latifa is located in the right side of the chest and is red, for others it is green. After its activation the human gets acquainted with Alam-e-Aaraf (the place where man resides after death).\n\nThis is on the right side of the chest. This is awakened and illuminated by the meditation and one-pointed concentration on it. Once it becomes illuminated, a vibration similar to the heartbeat is felt on the right side of the chest. Then the Name of God, Ya Allah is matched with the vibrating pulse. The meditation of the soul is done in this way. This is an advancement in rank and status and is better than the Qalb. It is able to travel to the realm of the souls (the station of the Archangel Gabriel). Anger and rage are attached to it that burn and turn into majesty.\n\nRuh or spirit is the second contender in the battle for human life. Again, opinions on Ruh differ among Sufis. Some deem it coeternal with God; others consider it a created entity. Be that as it may, Ruh is the plateau of consensus for the majority of Sufis, especially the early ones (before 11th/12th century C.E.). For those Sufis with Gnostic leanings (which can be found in Bektashi or Mevlevi orders), Ruh is a soul-spark, immortal entity and transegoic \"true self\", similar to the Christian concepts of \"synteresis\" or \"Imago Dei\", or Vedantist notion of \"jiva\", as well as Tibetan Buddhist \"shes-pa\", principle of consciousness and Taoist \"shen\" or spirit. But, the majority of the Sufis would consider this an unnecessarily extravagant speculation and would stick to the more orthodox notion of dormant spiritual faculty that needs to be worked upon by constant vigil and prayer in order to achieve the Tajliyya-I-Ruh, or Illumination of the spirit. Ironically, this spiritual faculty is frequently referred to in terms one encounters in connection with Nafs- \"blind\" life force or life current that needs to be purified by strict religious observances in order to achieve illumination.\n\nSirr is located in the solar plexus and is associated with the color white. It records the orders of Allah for the individual in similitude to that which is originally present in Loh-e-mehfooz (Preserved Scripturum). After its activation, human being gets acquainted with Aalam-e-Misal (The Allegorical realm - Reflection of knowledge of the preserved Scripturum.) This center is associated with consciousness.\n\nThis is also awakened and illuminated by the meditation and one-pointed concentration on it with the Name of God, Ya Hayy, Ya Qayyum. The dream state or by spiritual separation from the physical body “transcendental meditation” it can journey to the realm of the secrets.\n\nSirr, literally means \"the secret\". Emptying of the Sirr (Taqliyya-I-Sirr) is basically focusing on God's names and attributes in perpetual remembrance or Dhikr, hence diverting one's attention from the mundane aspects of human life and fixing it on the spiritual realm. The \"emptying\" signifies negation and obliteration of ego-centred human propensities.\n\nAccording to some, it is located in the middle of the forehead (between the eyes or third eye position) and is black, to others blue. It's the equivalent of Kitab-e-Marqoom (the written book).\n\nAccording to others this is to the right of the centre of the chest. According to the Naqshbandi Saifi order, it is located to the top right of the chest, and is coloured black. It too is taught the Name of God Ya Wahid by meditation. It is green in colour and it can reach the realm of unification.\n\nThe term Khafi means mysterious, arcane or Latent Subtlety. It represents intuition.\n\nThe term Akhfa or ikhfa means most arcane, deeply mysterious, or obscure, subtlety. Its location is deep inside the brain or on center-top of the head. The color of this center, according to some, is green, to others, violet. It's the Nuqta-e-wahida (point of unity) in every human where the Tajalliat (beatific visions) of Allah are directly revealed. It contains information about the hidden knowledge of the universe. By entering into this point, the human being enters the system of the universe and laws governing the universe. This center is associated with deep perception.\n\nAccording to some this is situated at the centre of the chest. It is awakened by meditating on the Name of God, Ya Ahad. It is purple in colour and it too, is connected to that veil in the realm of unification behind which is the throne of God.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22943866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22943866", "title": "List of American philosophers", "text": "List of American philosophers\n\nThis is a list of American philosophers; of philosophers who are either from, or spent many productive years of their lives in the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3684132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3684132", "title": "MANAS Journal", "text": "MANAS Journal\n\nMANAS was an eight-page philosophical fortnightly written, edited, and published by Henry Geiger from 1948 until December 1988. Each issue typically contained several short essays that reflected on the human condition, examining in particular environmental and ethical concerns from a global perspective. E. F. Schumacher's influential essay on Buddhist economics was published in the journal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1650522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1650522", "title": "Matt Cohen (writer)", "text": "Matt Cohen (writer)\n\nMatthew (\"Matt\") Cohen (30 December 1942 – 2 December 1999) was a Canadian writer who published both mainstream literature under his own name and children's literature under the pseudonym Teddy Jam.\n\nMatt Cohen was born in Kingston, Ontario, the son of Morris Cohen and Beatrice Sohn, and grew up in Ottawa. He studied political economy at the University of Toronto and taught political philosophy and religion at McMaster University in the late 1960s before publishing his first novel \"Korsoniloff\" in 1969.\n\nHis fiction was translated into German, Dutch, French, Greek, Spanish and Portuguese. \"The Spanish Doctor\", his biggest international success, continues to sell well in the French and Spanish markets.\n\nHis greatest critical success as a writer was his final novel \"Elizabeth and After\" which won the 1999 Governor General's Award for English-language Fiction only a few weeks before his death. He had been nominated twice previously, but had not won, in 1979 for \"The Sweet Second Summer of Kitty Malone\" and in 1997 for \"Last Seen\".\n\nA founding member of the Writers' Union of Canada, he served on the executive board for many years and as president in 1986. During his presidency, the Writer's Union was finally able to persuade the government of Canada to form a commission and establish a Public Lending Right program. He also served on the Toronto Arts Council as chair of the Literary Division and was able to obtain increased funding for writers. In recognition of this work, he was awarded a Toronto Arts Award and the Harbourfront Prize.\n\nHe also published a number of children's books under the pseudonym Teddy Jam. Cohen's authorship of the Teddy Jam books was not revealed until after his death. \"Dr. Kiss\", illustrated by Joanne Fitzgerald won the Governor General's Award in 1991 and \"Fishing Summer\" was also nominated for a Governor General's Award for children's literature in 1997, making Cohen one of the few writers ever to be nominated for Governor General's Awards in two different categories in the same year.\n\nHe was married three times; first to Arden Ford, next to Susan Bricker and then to Patsy Aldana.\n\nCohen died at home in Toronto after a battle with lung cancer. His final book of short stories, \"Getting Lucky\", and his final Teddy Jam title, \"The Kid's Line\", were posthumously published in 2001. A Canadian literary award, the Matt Cohen Award, is presented in Cohen's memory by the Writers' Trust of Canada.\n\nA film adaptation of his 1990 novel \"Emotional Arithmetic\" has been produced by Triptych films starring Max von Sydow, Christopher Plummer, Gabriel Byrne and Susan Sarandon. It was the closing gala at the Toronto International Film Festival in 2007.\n\nYears link to corresponding \"year in literature\" or, for poetry, to \"year in poetry\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMatt Cohen on IMDB\n"}
{"id": "5938176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5938176", "title": "Nature (philosophy)", "text": "Nature (philosophy)\n\nNature has two inter-related meanings in philosophy. On the one hand, it means the set of all things which are natural, or subject to the normal working of the laws of nature. On the other hand, it means the essential properties and causes of individual things.\n\nHow to understand the meaning and significance of nature has been a consistent theme of discussion within the history of Western Civilization, in the philosophical fields of metaphysics and epistemology, as well as in theology and science. The study of natural things and the regular laws which seem to govern them, as opposed to discussion about what it means to be natural, is the area of natural science.\n\nThe word \"nature\" derives from Latin \"nātūra\", a philosophical term derived from the verb for birth, which was used as a translation for the earlier (pre-Socratic) Greek term \"phusis\", derived from the verb for natural growth.\nAlready in classical times, philosophical use of these words combined two related meanings which have in common that they refer to the way in which things happen by themselves, \"naturally\", without \"interference\" from human deliberation, divine intervention, or anything outside what is considered normal for the natural things being considered.\n\nUnderstandings of nature depend on the subject and age of the work where they appear. For example, Aristotle's explanation of natural properties differs from what is meant by natural properties in modern philosophical and scientific works, which can also differ from other scientific and conventional usage.\n\nThe Physics (from \"ta phusika\" \"the natural [things]\") is Aristotle's principal work on nature. In Physics II.1, Aristotle defines a nature as \"a source or cause of being moved and of being at rest in that to which it belongs primarily\". In other words, a nature is the principle within a natural raw material that is the source of tendencies to change or rest in a particular way unless stopped. For example, a rock would fall unless stopped. Natural things stand in contrast to artifacts, which are formed by human artifice, not because of an innate tendency. (The raw materials of a bed have no tendency to become a bed.) In terms of Aristotle's theory of four causes, the word natural is applied both to the innate potential of matter cause and the forms which the matter tends to become naturally.\n\nAccording to Leo Strauss, the beginning of Western philosophy involved the \"discovery or invention of nature\" and the \"pre-philosophical equivalent of nature\" was supplied by \"such notions as 'custom' or 'ways'\". In ancient Greek philosophy on the other hand, Nature or natures are ways that are \"really universal\" \"in all times and places\". What makes nature different is that it presupposes not only that not all customs and ways are equal, but also that one can \"find one's bearings in the cosmos\" \"on the basis of inquiry\" (not for example on the basis of traditions or religion). To put this \"discovery or invention\" into the traditional terminology, what is \"by nature\" is contrasted to what is \"by convention\". The concept of nature taken this far remains a strong tradition in modern western thinking. Science, according to Strauss' commentary of Western history is the contemplation of nature, while technology was or is an attempt to imitate it.\n\nGoing further, the philosophical concept of nature or natures as a special type of causation - for example that the way particular humans are is partly caused by something called \"human nature\" is an essential step towards Aristotle's teaching concerning causation, which became standard in all Western philosophy until the arrival of modern science.\n\nWhether it was intended or not, Aristotle's inquiries into this subject were long felt to have resolved the discussion about nature in favor of one solution. In this account, there are four different types of cause:\n\nThe formal and final cause are an essential part of Aristotle's \"Metaphysics\" - his attempt to go beyond nature and explain nature itself. In practice they imply a human-like consciousness involved in the causation of all things, even things which are not man-made. Nature itself is attributed with having aims.\n\nThe artificial, like the conventional therefore, is within this branch of Western thought, traditionally contrasted with the natural. Technology was contrasted with science, as mentioned above. And another essential aspect to this understanding of causation was the distinction between the accidental properties of a thing and the substance - another distinction which has lost favor in the modern era, after having long been widely accepted in medieval Europe.\n\nTo describe it another way, Aristotle treated organisms and other natural wholes as existing at a higher level than mere matter in motion. Aristotle's argument for formal and final causes is related to a doctrine about how it is possible that people know things: \"If nothing exists apart from individual things, nothing will be intelligible; everything will be sensible, and there will be no knowledge of anything—unless it be maintained that sense-perception is knowledge\". Those philosophers who disagree with this reasoning therefore also see knowledge differently from Aristotle.\n\nAristotle then, described nature or natures as follows, in a way quite different from modern science...\n\nIt has been argued, as will be explained below, that this type of theory represented an oversimplifying diversion from the debates within Classical philosophy, possibly even that Aristotle saw it as a simplification or summary of the debates himself. But in any case the theory of the four causes became a standard part of any advanced education in the Middle Ages.\n\nIn contrast, Modern Science took its distinctive turn with Francis Bacon, who rejected the four distinct causes, and saw Aristotle as someone who \"did proceed in such a spirit of difference and contradiction towards all antiquity: undertaking not only to frame new words of science at pleasure, but to confound and extinguish all ancient wisdom\". He felt that lesser known Greek philosophers such as Democritus \"who did not suppose a mind or reason in the frame of things\", have been arrogantly dismissed because of Aristotelianism leading to a situation in his time wherein \"the search of the physical causes hath been neglected, and passed in silence\".\n\nAnd so Bacon advised...\n\nIn his \"Novum Organum\" Bacon argued that the only forms or natures we should hypothesize are the \"simple\" (as opposed to compound) ones such as the ways in which heat, movement, etc. work. For example, in aphorism 51 he writes:\n\nFollowing Bacon's advice, the scientific search for the formal cause of things is now replaced by the search for \"laws of nature\" or \"laws of physics\" in all scientific thinking. To use Aristotle's well-known terminology these are descriptions of efficient cause, and not formal cause or final cause. It means modern science limits its hypothesizing about non-physical things to the assumption that there are regularities to the ways of all things which do not change.\n\nThese general laws, in other words, replace thinking about \"specific\" \"laws\", for example \"\"human\" nature\". In modern science, human nature is part of the same general scheme of cause and effect, obeying the same general laws, as all other things. The above-mentioned difference between accidental and substantial properties, and indeed knowledge and opinion, also disappear within this new approach that aimed to avoid metaphysics.\n\nAs Bacon knew, the term \"laws of nature\" was one taken from medieval Aristotelianism. St Thomas of Aquinas for example, defined law so that nature really was legislated to consciously achieve aims, like human law: \"an ordinance of reason for the common good, made by him who has care of the community and promulgated\". In contrast, roughly contemporary with Bacon, Hugo Grotius described the law of nature as \"a rule that [can] be deduced from fixed principles by a sure process of reasoning\". And later still, Montesquieu was even further from the original legal metaphor, describing laws vaguely as \"the necessary relations deriving from the nature of things\".\n\nOne of the most important implementors of Bacon's proposal was Thomas Hobbes, whose remarks concerning nature are particularly well-known. His most famous work, \"Leviathan\", opens with the word \"Nature\" and then parenthetically defines it as \"the art whereby God hath made and governes the world\". Despite this pious description, he follows a Baconian approach. Following his contemporary, Descartes, Hobbes describes life itself as mechanical, caused in the same way as clockwork:\n\nOn this basis, already being established in natural science in his lifetime, Hobbes sought to discuss politics and human life in terms of \"laws of nature\". But in the new modern approach of Bacon and Hobbes, and before them Machiavelli (who however never clothed his criticism of the Aristotelian approach in medieval terms like \"laws of nature\"), such laws of nature are quite different to human laws: they no longer imply any sense of better or worse, but simply how things really are, and, when in reference to laws of \"human\" nature, what sorts of human behavior can be most relied upon.\n\nHaving disconnected the term \"law of nature\" from the original medieval metaphor of human-made law, the term \"law of nature\" is now used less than in early modern times.\n\nTo take the critical example of human nature, as discussed in ethics and politics, once early modern philosophers such as Hobbes had described human nature as whatever you could expect from a mechanism called a human, the point of speaking of human nature became problematic in some contexts.\n\nIn the late 18th century, Rousseau took a critical step in his Second Discourse, reasoning that human nature as we know it, rational, and with language, and so on, is a result of historical accidents, and the specific up-bringing of an individual. The consequences of this line of reasoning were to be enormous. It was all about the question of nature. In effect it was being claimed that human nature, one of the most important types of nature in Aristotelian thinking, did not exist as it had been understood to exist.\n\nThe approach of modern science, like the approach of Aristotelianism, is apparently not universally accepted by all people who accept the concept of nature as a reality which we can pursue with reason.\n\nBacon and other opponents of Metaphysics claim that all attempts to go beyond nature are bound to fall into the same errors, but Metaphysicians themselves see differences between different approaches.\n\nImmanuel Kant for example, expressed the need for a Metaphysics in quite similar terms to Aristotle.\n\nAs in Aristotelianism then, Kantianism claims that the human mind must itself have characteristics which are beyond nature, metaphysical, in some way. Specifically, Kant argued that the human mind comes ready-made with \"a priori\" programming, so to speak, which allows it to make sense of nature.\n\nAuthors from Nietzsche to Richard Rorty have claimed that science, the study of nature, can and should exist without metaphysics. But this claim has always been controversial. Authors like Bacon and Hume never denied that their use of the word \"nature\" implied metaphysics, but tried to follow Machiavelli's approach of talking about what works, instead of claiming to understand what seems impossible to understand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42407454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42407454", "title": "Outcomes paradox", "text": "Outcomes paradox\n\nThe outcomes paradox is one of the terms for the observation that patients with schizophrenia in developing countries benefit much more from therapy than those in Western countries. This is surprising because the reverse holds for most diseases: \"the richer and more developed the country, the better the patient outcome\". This paradox came to light in late 60s due to studies done by World Health Organization across the world and has become an \"axiom\" in international psychiatry since. Cohen et al. criticize this view, and argue that the data do not support this conclusion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1918930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1918930", "title": "Peter Gleick", "text": "Peter Gleick\n\nPeter H. Gleick (; born 1956) is an American scientist working on issues related to the environment. He works at the Pacific Institute in Oakland, California, which he co-founded in 1987. In 2003 he was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship for his work on water resources. Among the issues he has addressed are conflicts over water resources, water and climate change, development, and human health.\n\nIn 2006 he was elected to the U.S. National Academy of Sciences. In 2011, Gleick was the launch Chairman of the \"new task force on scientific ethics and integrity\" of the American Geophysical Union. Gleick received the International Water Resources Association (IWRA) Ven Te Chow Memorial Award in 2011, and that same year he and the Pacific Institute were awarded the first U.S. Water Prize. In 2014, the Guardian newspaper listed Gleick as one of the world's top 10 \"water tweeters.\"\n\nGleick received a B.S. from Yale University and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Energy and Resources from the University of California, Berkeley, with a focus on hydroclimatology. His dissertation was the first to model the regional impacts of climate change on water resources. Gleick produced some of the earliest work on the links between environmental issues, especially water and climate change, and international security, identifying a long history of conflicts over water resources and the use of water as both a weapon and target of war. He also pioneered the concepts of the soft water path, and peak water.\n\nGleick worked as the Deputy Assistant for Energy and the Environment to the Governor of California from 1980 to 1982.\n\nIn 2003 he was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship for his work on water resources, and in 2006 he was elected to the U.S. National Academy of Sciences.\n\nHis 2010 book \"Bottled and Sold: The Story Behind Our Obsession with Bottled Water\", published by Island Press, won the Nautilus Book Award for in the Conscious Media/Journalism/Investigative Reporting category. \n\nIn 2011, Gleick received the International Water Resources Association (IWRA) Ven Te Chow Memorial Award. Also in 2011, Dr. Gleick and the Pacific Institute were awarded the first U.S. Water Prize.\n\nIn 2012, Oxford University Press published a book written by Gleick and colleagues: \"A 21st Century U.S. Water Policy,\" and he was named one of 25 \"Water Heroes\" by Xylem. In 2013, Gleick was honored with a Lifetime Achievement Award by the Silicon Valley Water Conservation Awards.\n\nIn early 2013, Gleick launched a new blog at National Geographic ScienceBlogs entitled \"Significant Figures.\" He is also a regular contributor to Huffington Post Green.\n\nGleick has also been featured in a wide range of water-related documentary films, including Jim Thebaut's documentary \"Running Dry\", the 2004 German documentary series \"Der durstige Planet,\" Irena Salina's feature documentary \"\", accepted for the 2008 Sundance Film Festival, the ABC News documentary \"Earth2100,\", Jessica Yu and Elise Pearlstein's 2011 feature documentary \"Last Call at the Oasis\" from Participant Media, and \"Pumped Dry: The Global Crisis of Vanishing Groundwater (A USA Today Network Production) USA Today ] \"He served on the scientific advisory boards of \"Thirst\", \"\" and other water-related films.\n\nIn 1987, with two colleagues, Gleick started the Pacific Institute, a non-profit policy research center currently located in Oakland, California. The mission of the Institute is \"The Pacific Institute creates and advances solutions to the world's most pressing water challenges.\" Gleick currently serves as the Institute's President Emeritus, having been succeeded as President by Jason Morrison.\n\nGleick is the editor of the biennial series on the state of the world's water, called \"The World's Water\", published by Island Press, Washington, D.C., regularly provides testimony to the United States Congress and state legislatures, and has published many scientific articles. The ninth volume of \"The World's Water\" was released in early February 2018. He serves as a major source of information on water and climate issues for the media, and has been featured on CNBC, CNN, Fox Business, \"Fresh Air\" with Terry Gross, NPR, in articles in \"The New Yorker\", and many other outlets.\n\nGleick lectures dozens of times a year on global water resource challenges and solutions, climate science and policy, and the integrity of science. In 2008, he presented the Abel Wolman Distinguished Lecture at the United States National Academy of Sciences. He was a 2009 Keynote Lecturer at the Nobel Conference at Gustavus Adolphus College. In 2014, Gleick published a peer-reviewed article in the American Meteorological Society journal \"Weather, Climate, and Society\" (WCAS) that addressed the role of drought, climate change, and water management decisions in influencing the civil war in Syria. This article was the \"most read\" WCAS article for 2014.\nIn September 2014, Gleick gave a keynote address at the \"Global Climate Negotiations: Lessons from California\" Symposium, co-hosted by the USC Schwarzenegger Institute with the California Air Resources Board and the R20 Regions of Climate Action (R20) in Sacramento, which highlighted the different policies applied by the state of California facing the impact of climate change., In February 2015, Gleick's work on the \"Water-Energy Nexus\" was highlighted in an invited keynote at the Georgetown University 2015 Annual Symposium of the Center for Contemporary Arab Studies.\n\nOn February 20, 2012, Gleick announced he was responsible for the unauthorized distribution of documents from The Heartland Institute in mid-February. Gleick reported he had received \"an anonymous document in the mail describing what appeared to be details of the Heartland Institute's climate program strategy\", and in trying to verify the authenticity of the document, had \"solicited and received additional materials directly from the Heartland Institute under someone else's name\". Responding to the leak, The Heartland Institute said one of the documents released, a two-page 'Strategy Memo', had been forged. Gleick denied forging the document. Gleick described his actions as \"a serious lapse of my own and professional judgment and ethics\" and said that he \"deeply regret[ted his] own actions in this case\" and \"offer[ed his] personal apologies to all those affected\". He stated that \"My judgment was blinded by my frustration with the ongoing efforts – often anonymous, well-funded, and coordinated – to attack climate science and scientists and prevent this debate, and by the lack of transparency of the organizations involved.\" On February 24 he wrote to the board of the Pacific Institute requesting a \"temporary short-term leave of absence\" from the Institute. The Board of Directors stated it was \"deeply concerned regarding recent events\" involving Gleick and the Heartland documents, and appointed a new Acting Executive Director on February 27. Gleick was reinstated following an investigation, in which the institute found no evidence to support charges of forgery and \"supported what Dr. Gleick has stated publicly regarding his interaction with the Heartland Institute.\"\n\nGleick is the brother of author James Gleick and Elizabeth Gleick.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2780546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2780546", "title": "Philosophical Fragments", "text": "Philosophical Fragments\n\nPhilosophical Fragments (Danish title: ) is a Christian philosophical work written by Danish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard in 1844. It was the second of three works written under the pseudonym \"Johannes Climacus\"; the other two were \"De omnibus dubitandum est\" in 1841 and \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript to Philosophical Fragments\" in 1846.\n\nKierkegaardian scholars D. Anthony Storm and Walter Lowrie believe Kierkegaard could be referring to Johannes Climacus, a 7th-century Christian monk, who believed that an individual is converted to Christianity by way of a ladder, one rung (virtue) at a time. Kierkegaard believes the individual comes to an understanding with Christ by a leap.\n\nKierkegaard scholar and translator David F. Swenson was the first to translate the book into English in 1936. He called it \"Philosophical Chips\" in an earlier biography of Kierkegaard published in 1921and another early translator, Lee Milton Hollander, called it \"Philosophic Trifles\" in his early translation of portions of Kierkegaard's works in 1923.\n\nKierkegaard hinted that he might write a \"sequel in 17 pieces\" in his preface. By February 22, 1846 he published a 600-page sequel to his 83-page \"Fragments\". He devoted over 200 pages of \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript\" to an explanation of what he meant by \"Philosophical Fragments\".\n\nHe referred to a quote by Plato in his \"Postscript to Philosophical Fragments\": \"But I must ask you Socrates, what do you suppose is the upshot of all this? As I said a little while ago, it is the scrapings and shavings of argument, cut up into little bits.\" – \"Greater Hippias\", 304a. He could have been thinking about this quote when he wrote this book. Plato was asking \"What is beauty?\" Kierkegaard asks, \"What is Truth?\" Kierkegaard had already asked about truth 9 days earlier when he published \"Three Upbuilding Discourses\". A mere 4 days from the publication of \"Philosophical Fragments\" he published \"The Concept of Anxiety\".\n\nKierkegaard wrote his books in reaction to both Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel and Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel as well as the philosophic-historical use of speculation in regard to Christianity. Schlegel published a book bearing the same title as Kierkegaard's, \"Philosophical Fragments\" in 1799.\n\nKierkegaard always wrote a preface signed by the name of the pseudonymous author he was using. He began this practice with his unpublished book \"Johannes Climacus\" and continued it throughout his writing career. However, he added his own name as the person responsible for publication of \"Philosophical Fragments\", \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript\", \"The Sickness Unto Death\" and \"Practice in Christianity\". He also wrote many discourses which he signed with his own name. He began that practice with the writing of \"Two Upbuilding Discourses\" in 1843. \nHe divides his book into five major sections \n\nLater, in his \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript\" Kierkegaard said \"The Issue in \"Fragments\" is an Introductory Issue, Not to Christianity but to Becoming a Christian.\"\n\nKierkegaard uses familiar Christian vocabulary to develop his own method for arriving at Truth. He presents two views, the Socratic and the religious. Socrates is considered an authoritative voice in the philosophic community so Kierkegaard begins with his ideas. He developed the doctrine of recollection which Kierkegaard makes use of in his explanation of Truth and ignorance.\n\nHis aim is to advance beyond Socrates, who was interested in finite truth, to another Teacher who explained Eternal Truth. The Enlightenment movement was intent on combining concepts of God, nature, knowledge and man into one world view. Kierkegaard was a counter-Enlightenment writer. He believed that knowledge of God was a \"condition\" that only \"the God\" can give and the \"Moment\" God gives the condition to the Learner has \"decisive significance\".\n\nHe uses the category of the single individual to help those seeking to become Christians. He says, \"I am he who himself has been educated to the point of becoming a Christian. In the fact that education is pressed upon me, and in the measure that it is pressed, I press in turn upon this age; but I am not a teacher, only a fellow student.\" And again, \"Once and for all I must earnestly beg the kind reader always to bear \"in mente\" (in mind) that the thought behind the whole work is: what it means to become a Christian.\" He can only bring an individual to the point of becoming a Christian because the single individual must choose to become a Christian in freedom. Kierkegaard says, either believe or be offended. But choose.\n\nPhilosophers and Historians tend to try to prove Christianity rather than teach belief in Christ through faith. Kierkegaard says,\n\nKierkegaard uses the Doctrine of Recollection as an example of how truth was found in Ancient Greek philosophy and is still found in psychotherapy and modern medicine. Both of these sciences are based on questioning the patient, \"Learner\", in the hope of jogging their memory about past events. The therapist could ask the right question and not realize he has received the answer he was looking for, this is known as Meno's paradox. Kierkegaard puts his paradox this way, \"what a man knows he cannot seek, since he knows it; and what he does not know he cannot seek, since he does not even know for what to seek.\"\n\nThe problem for the \"Learner\" is that he is in \"Error\", and is ignorant of his Error. He had the truth from birth, he knew who his creator was, but forgot. Kierkegaard calls this Error \"Sin\". How can he find out that he had vested his life in outer goods rather than the inner goods of the Spirit? A Teacher must bring him the \"condition\" necessary for understanding the Truth. He explains the whole process this way: \nNow he owes everything to his Teacher but is saddened that it took so long to find out that he forgot his soul belonged to God and not to the world, and he \"Repents\". The \"Moment\" the Teacher brings the condition the learner experiences a \"New Birth\". Kierkegaard says a \"change has taken place within him like the change from non-being to being. He calls this change \"Conversion\". He says, \"When one who has experienced birth thinks of himself as born, he conceives this transition from non-being to being. The same principle must also hold in the case of the new birth. Or is the difficulty increased by the fact that the non-being which precedes the new birth contains more being than the non-being which preceded the first birth? But who then may be expected to think the new birth?\" This is a paradox.\n\nWhen the seed of the oak is planted in earthen vessels, they break asunder; when new wine is poured in old leather bottles, they burst; what must happen when the God implants himself in human weakness, unless man becomes a new vessel and a new creature! But this becoming, what labors will attend the change, how convulsed with birth-pangs! And the understanding—how precarious, and how close each moment to misunderstanding, when the anguish of guilt seeks to disturb the peace of love! And how rapt in fear; for it is indeed less terrible to fall to the ground when the mountains tremble at the voice of the God, than to sit at table with him as an equal; and yet it is the God's concern precisely to have it so. \"Philosophical Fragments\" p. 27\n\nHow many an individual has not asked, “What is truth?” and at bottom hoped that it would be a long time before the truth would come so close to him that in the same instant it would determine what it was his duty to do at that moment. When the Pharisee, “in order to justify himself,” asked, “Who is my neighbor?” he presumably thought that this might develop into a very protracted inquiry, so that it would perhaps take a very long time and then perhaps end with the admission that it was impossible to define the concept “neighbor” with absolute accuracy – for this very reason he asked the question, to find an escape, to waste time, and to justify himself. But God catches the wise in their foolishness, and Christ imprisoned the questioner in the answer that contained the task. So it is with all Christ’s answers. Søren Kierkegaard, \"Works of Love\" p. 96-97The truth is within me, that is, when I am truly within myself (not untruthfully outside myself), the truth, if it is there, is a being, a life. Therefore it says, \"This is eternal life, to know the only true God and the one whom he sent, the truth.\" (John 14:6 The Bible) That is, only then do I in truth know the truth, when it becomes a life in me. Therefore Christ compares truth to food and appropriating it to eating, just as, physically, food by being appropriated (assimilated) becomes the life sustenance, so also, spiritually, truth is both the giver of life and the sustenance of life, is life. \"Practice in Christianity\", Hong 1991 p. 206 But Kierkegaard went deeply into the choice in his first book, Either/Or: \n\nKierkegaard leads his reader to consider how a teacher might become a teacher. He says life and its circumstances constitute an occasion for an individual to become a teacher and he in turn becomes an occasion for the learner to learn something. Socrates was such a teacher as this. But what about God? What would be the occasion that moved him to become a Teacher? God is moved by love but his love is unhappy. He wants to make himself understood just like a teacher but He's teaching something that doesn't come to an individual from the known world but from a world that is Unknown. \"His love is a love of the learner, and his aim is to win him. For it is only in love that the unequal can be made equal, and it is only in equality or unity that an understanding can be effected, and without a perfect understanding the Teacher is not the God, unless the obstacle comes wholly from the side of the learner, in his refusing to realize that which had been made possible for him.\"\n\nGod's goal is to make himself understood and, according to Kierkegaard, he has three options. He could elevate the learner to help the learner forget the misunderstanding. God could show himself to the learner and cause him to forget his Error while contemplating God's presence. Both options are rejected on the basis of equality. How can God make himself equal to man? Only by becoming man himself, but not a king, or a leader of an established order, no, for equality's sake he must become one of the humblest, a servant.\n\nBut God can't make himself understood because he's completely unlike every other human being. God has not sinned, whereas every human being has. This is a paradox but the ultimate paradox is that a single individual who looks just like everyone else is God. \"The thesis that God has existed in human form, was born, grew up; is certainly the paradox in the strictest sense, the absolute paradox.\" Christianity is also a paradox as well as the forgiveness of sins. Kierkegaard is saying that the \"Moment\" the individual comes in contact with the Paradox is of utmost importance because this is where the decision is made. This is his Either/Or. Either believe or be offended. Reason is attempting to understand the Paradox but comes to its own limit and can't understand what it knows nothing about. \n\nKierkegaard says Reason \"collides\" with the knowledge of the Unknown. If Reason and God have a happy encounter the individual comes to be a believer. If the collision results in an unhappy encounter the Reason is Offended. The Reason says that the Paradox is absurd and can get no meaning from the encounter. But when \"Reason yielded itself while the Paradox bestowed itself, and the understanding is consummated in that happy passion, the individual is happy and asks for nothing more.\" Kierkegaard says Christ offers every single individual the \"invitation.\"\n\nKierkegaard explores how a contemporary of Christ and succeeding generations receive the \"condition\" necessary to understand the Paradox that God has permitted himself to be born and wrapped in swaddling-clothes. A contemporary could have been living abroad and in that case the contemporary would have to hear the story from eyewitnesses. How reliable would they be? The only thing they saw was a lowly servant. The immediate contemporary can \"serve as an occasion for the acquirement of historical knowledge\", an occasion to help the individual understand himself in the Socratic sense, or the contemporary could have received the condition from God and become a believer.\n\nThe \"condition\" comes into existence. Kierkegaard says the \"coming-into-existence is a kind of change, but is not a change in essence but in being and is a transition from not existing to existing. But this non-being which the subject of coming into existence leaves behind must itself have some sort of being. He asks his reader to consider whether the necessary can come into existence or if the necessary \"Is\", since everything that comes into existence is historical. But for Kierkegaard \"all coming into existence takes place in freedom.\" The disciple freely chooses to follow Christ when the Holy Spirit convinces him that he's a sinner.\n\nHe finally discloses what this \"condition\" the \"Moment\" brings to the individual. He says, \"faith has precisely the required character; for in the certainty of belief there is always present a negated uncertainty, in every way corresponding to the uncertainty of coming into existence. Faith believes what it does not see...\" \n\nAn individual can know what Christianity is without being a Christian. Kierkegaard says, \"By Baptism Christianity gives him a name, and he is a Christian \"de nomine\" (by name); but in the decision he becomes a Christian and gives Christianity his name. It would indeed be a ludicrous contradiction if an existing person asked what Christianity is in terms of existence and then spent his whole life deliberating on that-for in that case when should he exist in it?\" \n\nBelief is not a form of knowledge, but a free act, an expression of will, it is not having a relationship with a doctrine but having a relationship with God. Kierkegaard says \"Faith, self-active, relates itself to the improbable and the paradox, is self-active in discovering it and in holding it fast at every moment-in order to be able to believe.\"\n\nKierkegaard mentioned Johann Georg Hamann (1730-1788) in his book \"Repetition\" p. 149 (1843) and this book, \"Philosophical Fragments\" (p. 38ff, Swenson), and what Kierkegaard writes is written also by Hamann in his book, \"Socratic Memorabilia\", in this way: \n\nKierkegaard was criticized by his former teacher and pastor Hans Lassen Martensen, he concludes from Kierkegaard's writing, here and in \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript\", that he's saying an individual can be saved without the help of the Church. Martensen believed 19th century Socialism would destroy individuality, but regarded Kierkegaard's emphasis on the single individual as too one-sided. Kierkegaard was responding to Hegelian writers such as Ludwig Feuerbach and David Strauss who emphasized the objective nature of God. God is just man's idea. Otto Pfleiderer wrote an assessment of Kierkegaard's views in 1877. He called his work \"ascetic individualistic mysticism.\"\n\nRobert L Perkins wrote a book about Kierkegaard's books which used Johannes Climacus as a pseudonym. and Kierkegaardian biographer, Alastair Hannay, discusses \"Philosophical Fragments\" 36 times in \"Søren Kierkegaard\", A Biography. Jyrki Kivelä wonders if Kierkegaard's Paradox is David Hume's miracle. Which comes first existence or essence? Richard Gravil tries to explain it in his book \"Existentialism\". Kierkegaard says God comes into existence again and again for each single individual. He didn't just come once for all.\n\nAn early existentialist, Miguel de Unamuno, discussed the relation between faith and reason in relation to Kierkegaard's \"Postscript\" to this book.\nHegel and his followers accepted Christianity without miracles or any other supernaturalism. Robert Solomon puts it this way: \"What is Christianity, \"revealed religion,\" divested of its \"figurative thought\"? It is a faith without icons, images, stories, and myths, without miracles, without a resurrection, without a nativity, without Chartres and Fra Angelico, without wine and wafers, without heaven and hell, without God as judge and without judgment. With philosophical conceptualization, the Trinity is reduced to Kant's categories of Universality (God the father) Particularity (Christ the Son) and Individuality (The Holy Spirit). The incarnation no longer refers to Christ alone, but only to the philosophical thesis that there is no God other than humanity. Spirit, that is, humanity made absolute, is God, which is to say that there is nothing other than humanity … What is left after the philosophical conceptualization of religion? To the orthodox Christian, nothing is left, save some terminology which has been emptied of its traditional significance. From Hegel's gutted Christianity to Heine and Nietzsche's aesthetic atheism is a very short distance indeed. \"From Hegel to Existentialism\", By Robert C. Solomon, Oxford University Press US, 1989 p. 61\n\nEduard Geismar gave a seminar about the religious thought of Kierkegaard in 1933. He said, \"Kierkegaard develops the concept of an existential thinker. The task of such a thinker is to understand himself in his existence, with its uncertainty, its risk and its passion. Socrates was such an existential thinker. … from Socrates he has learned his method of communication, the indirect method. From Socrates he has learned to abstain from giving the reader and objective result to memorize, a systematic scheme for arrangement in paragraphs, all of which is relevant only to objective science, but irrelevant to existential thought. From Socrates he has learned to confront the reader with a question, to picture the ideal as a possibility. From Socrates he has learned to keep the reader at a distance, to throw him back on his individual responsibility, to compel him to find his own way to a solution. Kierkegaard does not merely talk about self-reliance; his entire literary art is devoted to the promotion of self-reliance.\"\n\nJean-Paul Sartre vehemently disagreed with Kierkegaard's subjective ideas. He was Hegelian and had no room in his system for faith. Kierkegaard seemed to rely on faith at the expense of the intellect. He developed the idea of bad faith. His idea is relative to Kierkegaard's idea of the Moment. If a situation (occasion for Kierkegaard) makes an individual aware of his authentic self and the individual fails to choose that self that constitutes bad faith.\n\nSartre was against Kierkegaard's view that God can only be approached subjectively. \nTime Magazine summed up Sartre and Camus' interpretation of Kierkegaard in this way, \n\nJohann Goethe was influenced by Jean Jacques Rousseau's book, \"Emile, or On Education\" and Kierkegaard may have been also. Here is a quotation from his book: \n\nSoren Kierkegaard read the works of both Hegel and Goethe. His ideas expressed in this book could have come from a few maxims written by Johann Goethe. Goethe and Kierkegaard each stressed the need for the individual to come to an understanding of what the Bible is all about and then applying that understanding as it is appropriated.\n\nPaul Tillich and Neo-orthodox theologians were influenced by Søren Kierkegaard. Tillich's book \"The New Being\" is similar to Kierkegaard's idea of the \"New Birth\". He's more of a Christian existentialist than an Existentialist. Many of the 20th century Theologians attempt to answer all the questions of Christianity for the individual, like who Jesus was as a person. Kierkegaard's idea was different. He believed each single individual comes to Christ in his or her unique way. He was against all speculation regarding whether or not an individual accepts the prompting of the Holy Spirit. A New Birth doesn't come about through historical or philosophical ponderings. He wrote,\"There is a prayer which especially in our times would be so apt: 'God in heaven, I thank you for not requiring a person to comprehend Christianity, for if it were required, then I would be of all men the most miserable. The more I seek to comprehend it, the more I discover merely the possibility of offence. Therefore, I thank you for requiring only faith and I pray you will continue to increase it.\" \"When love forgives the miracle of faith happens\"\n\nEmil Brunner mentioned Kierkegaard in his 1934 book \"Mediator\". \"This is the stumbling-block in Christianity: that revelation, the divine manifestation-that is, eternal truth and everlasting salvation-has to be connected with the fact which took place once for all, or,-it amounts to the same thing-that we can never approach God directly but only through the Mediator. This stumbling-block is not only through the intellect-as Kierkegaard’s teaching would suggest. It is true, of course, that to the Greeks the message of the Cross was foolishness. Pride of intellect revolts against the claim that truth lies outside the realm of reason.\" \n\nThomas Merton, a Trappist Monk was influenced by \"Philosophical Fragments\" and other works by Kierkegaard. He wrote a book about the new birth in 1961. Merton says we come to an understanding with God because he gives us free speech, Parrhesia. Kierkegaard and Merton both point more to understanding than to reason as the motivating factor in belief.\n\nUniversity of Pennsylvania Professor Louis H. Mackey described Johann Climacus' point of view in his 1971 book \"Kierkegaard: A Kind of Poet\" (p. 164): \"Climacus’ point in the Philosophical Fragments is that Christianity, which came into the world as a Miracle, ever remains a mystery beyond comprehension and imagination, intelligible only to a faith that is itself miraculous and God-given. But this does not mean that the act of faith entails spiritual suicide; it is rather the refusal to believe that stultifies. In any encounter of man with God-and that is what Christianity proposes-the initiative is God’s. Man’s only possible responses are faith or offense.\"\n\nJulie Watkin, from the University of Tasmania, Australia, wrote the following about this book: Philosophical Fragments (…) \"investigates in somewhat abstract philosophical language the Platonic-Socratic idea of recollection of truth before considering how truth is brought about in Christianity. The distinction made here is that with the former, the individual possesses the truth and so the teacher merely has to provoke it maieutically to the surface, so to speak, and is not vitally important, since any teacher would do. Where Christianity is concerned, the individual is like a blind person, needing the restoration of sight before he or she can see. The individual had the condition for seeing initially but is to blame for the loss of sight. The individual in Christianity thus needs the God and Savior to provide the condition for learning the truth that the individual is in untruth (i.e., sin). Since the God appears in the form of a lowly human and is not immediately recognizable, there is the element of the paradox. The individual must set aside objections of the understanding so that the paradoxical savior (who is the vitally important object of faith rather than the teaching) can give him-or herself to the individual in the moment along with the condition of faith.\"\n\nWas Kierkegaard a Monergist or a Synergist? God's love moves everything.Moved by love, the God is thus eternally resolved to reveal himself. But as love is the motive so love must also be the end; for it would be a contradiction for the God to have a motive and an end which did not correspond. His love is a love of the learner, and his aim is to win him. For it is only in love that the unequal can be made equal, and it is only in equality or unity that an understanding can be effected, and without a perfect understanding the Teacher is not the God, unless the obstacle comes wholly from the side of the learner, in his refusing to realize that which had been made possible for him. But this love is through and through unhappy, for how great is the difference between them! It may seem a small matter for the God to make himself understood, but this is not so easy of accomplishment if he is to refrain from annihilating the unlikeness that exists between them. \"Philosophical Fragments\" p. 20\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32188071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32188071", "title": "Pianto", "text": "Pianto\n\nIn music, the pianto (en:crying) is the motif of a descending minor second, has represented laments and been associated textually with weeping, sighing (called the Mannheim sigh by Hugo Riemann); or pain, grief, etc.; since the 16th century. For example the \"passus duriusculus\". \"It was present equally in vocal and instrumental music.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "33808143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33808143", "title": "Rasmus Storm's Notebook", "text": "Rasmus Storm's Notebook\n\nRasmus Storm's Notebook is a handwritten collection of tunes written in the 1760s by Rasmus Storm. It is one of the earliest and most important collections of Danish traditional music. Storm was a Danish fiddler and dancing master (teacher) born in 1733 on the Island of Funen. He was the son of an indentured peasant and worked as an assistant to a merchant. He began compiling his tunebook around 1760, but it is unknown where he learned the tunes. Among the tunes are minuets, polskas, bourrées, marches and rigadoons - as well as otherwise unknown dance types such as \"dantz\" and \"serras\" and several folk melodies. Today the notebook is kept by the Danish Ethnological collection.\n"}
{"id": "44829416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44829416", "title": "RedditGifts", "text": "RedditGifts\n\nRedditGifts is an online user-to-user gift exchange service that connects Reddit users around the world with one another. Free to participate in, RedditGifts was first created by Reddit user \"kickme444\" (the alias of Dan McComas), while working on freelance projects. The service involves signing up, filling out a profile based on the user's preferences, and agreeing to send a gift to a randomly assigned user.\n\nThe service is a gift exchange designed for Reddit users. It matches a Reddit user with another Reddit user, and each user must then send a gift to the other user according to that user's tastes and preferences listed on their profile. Participation is free, although extra perks can be purchased with the optional \"RedditGifts Elves\" membership, and goods are usually priced between $10 and $25 USD. The service also requests that users leave \"thank-you notes\" for their gift-giver on the website.\n\nSince starting as a Secret Santa exchange, RedditGifts has added a variety of different themed exchanges that run throughout the year, such as Nintendo and Halloween. The service also runs Arbitrary Day, \"a celebration of nothing in particular\". Up to 2011, approximately $1.5 million had been spent by Reddit users on the project.\n\nMicrosoft chairman and philanthropist Bill Gates has participated in the service for five years under the username \"thisisbillgates\", most notably in 2013 and in 2014, The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation confirmed this. Gates was noted to send objects to Reddit users like \"Calid7\" (a 25-year-old Californian woman), such as a travel book and a stuffed cow. He has also been known to donate to charities in the name of the user he has been matched with.\n\nRedditGifts was originally created by Reddit user Dan McComas, or \"kickme444\" as known on the site, and \"5days\". McComas first conceived the idea while working on freelance projects in 2009.\n\nThe site was launched in 2009 with 4,500 participants; the website reports that 212,894 people worldwide participated in the event during 2014.\n\nThe site is a three-time Guinness World Record holder for the World's Largest Gift Exchange.\n\nIn August 2011, Reddit bought the RedditGifts site. The two site-runners reportedly could not afford to continue maintaining the site while simultaneously working their day jobs. Both site-runners continued to run the website, although they are not involved with the daily operations of Reddit. The company takes a 15 to 20 percent cut of every purchase. Reddit operates the website as part of its ongoing plans to monetise their website. As of December 2013, approximately 14 percent of Reddit's revenue came from running the service, although McComas said that those sales alone could \"put Reddit firmly in the black\", and that the company may choose to reinvest funds in e-commerce customer service and infrastructure.\n\nIn December 2013, while expressing his desire for the Reddit business to become self-sustaining, then-Chief Executive Yishan Wong stated that the RedditGifts service \"provides real value\", and called it \"promising\" for the business. Wong increased the staff count dedicated to the project to eight after realising the service's potential.\n\n"}
{"id": "41558429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41558429", "title": "Sergei Suvorov", "text": "Sergei Suvorov\n\nSergey Alexandrovich Suvorov (; 1869–1918) was a Russian statistician, philosopher and revolutionary.\n\nSuvorov was attracted to the revolutionary movement in the 1890s and he participated in a Marxist study circle with Nikolai Fedoseev. He joined the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party (RSDLP) in 1900. He took part in the 1905 Revolution. He was a delegate to the 4th Congress of the RSDLP in 1906. Here he spoke about the Agrarian programme. He was one of the Russian Machists contributing several works to the philosophical debate including \"Studies in the Philosophy of Marxism\".\n\nHe was a member of the Yaroslavl Soviet of Workers' Deputies. He died in the fighting in that city during the Russian Civil War.\n"}
{"id": "6781217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6781217", "title": "Shrimad Rajchandra", "text": "Shrimad Rajchandra\n\nShrimad Rajchandra (11 November 1867 – 9 April 1901) was a Jain poet, mystic, philosopher, scholar and reformer. Born near Morbi, he was a prodigy and claimed to have recollection of his past lives at the age of seven. He performed \"Avadhāna\", a memory retention and recollection test that gained him popularity, but he later discouraged it in favour of his spiritual pursuits. He wrote a large number of philosophical poetry including \"Atma Siddhi\". He also wrote a large number of letters and commentaries and translated some religious texts. He is best known for his teachings on Jainism and his spiritual guidance to Mahatma Gandhi. \n\nShrimad Rajchandra was born on 11 November 1867 (Kartik Sud Purnima, Vikram Samvat 1924), in Vavania, a port near Morbi (now in Gujarat, India). His mother, Devbai, was Svetambara Sthanakvasi Jain and his father, Ravjibhai Mehta and paternal grand father, Panchan Mehta, were Vaishnava Hindu. So he was introduced to Jainism and Hinduism from early life. They were from Vaniya community and from Dasa Shrimali caste. He was initiated in Vaishnavism by a Sadhu named Ramadasji. He continued to study other Indian religions and was attracted to Ahimsa (non-violence) doctrine of Jainism. Later he chose Jainism because he considered that it provides best path to salvation. But Vaishnavism left a lasting influence on him.\n\nHis birth name was Lakshminandan Mehta. He was renamed Raichand by his parents when he was four years old. Later his name changed to its Sanskrit form, Rajchandra. Shrimad, an honorific, was added by his disciples posthumously. His disciples also refer to him as Param Krupalu Dev (Lord of the Highest Compassion).\n\nRajchandra claimed that he first attained \"jāti smaraṇa gnān\" (recollection of previous lives) at the age of seven, in 1874. In an 1890 reply to a question from Padamshibhai, his friend in Bombay, he described the incident:\n\nThis incident played a pivotal role in his perception of the world. He described his spiritual journey in one of his poem. He wrote that he advanced on the path of spirituality he had already attained in his previous life. He claimed that he developed complete resignation and detachment to his mortal body and the rest of the world in 1897. He thanked the day of the experience in one of his poem written at the age of 30. The tree he climbed no longer exist but a monument temple with a model of the event was erected on the site.\n\nHe experienced the same when he visited the fort in Junagadh. His experiences influenced him to live a religious life.\n\nRajchandra had an exceptional memory retentiveness and recollection. He joined the school at the age of seven and half but mastered the preliminaries in calculation in just a month. In two years, he completed the study of seven grades.\n\nAt the age of eight, he started composing poems. He composed verse synopses on \"Ramayana\" and \"Mahabharata\" at the age of nine. He gained maturity in thinking and reasoning and by the age of 10 started public speaking. At the age of 11 He started writing articles in newspapers and magazines, such as in \"Buddhiprakash\" and won several prizes in essay writing competitions. He wrote a 300-stanza poem on 'a watch' at the age of 12. In 1880, he went to Rajkot to study English, but very little is known about his education there. By 1882, he had studied and mastered several subjects. He became popular as a young poet and was referred to as Kavi due to it. He occasionally visited the residence of the ruler of Kutch as a writer where is handwriting were praised as best. He started attending his father's shop at age of 13. He composed many poems on life of Rama and Krishna while sitting in the shop.\n\n\"Avadhāna\" is a difficult test of attention and recollection in which a person attends multiple objects and activities at a time. In 1884, Rajchandra came from Vavania to Morbi where he saw Shastri Shankarlal M. Bhatt performing eight \"Avadhāna\" at a time. Gattulalji Maharaj was performing the same in Bombay. He saw the performance and quickly picked it up. Just two days after the performance, he performed it in front of his friends and later in public. Initially he performed 12 \"Avadhāna\" in public in Morbi but later he performed 16 \"Avadhāna\" in audience of two thousand in Wadhwan, which was praised in newspapers. He performed 52 \"Avadhāna\" in Botad in a private meeting with his friend Harilal Shivalal Sheth which included playing \"Chopat\" game with three players; playing cards with three players; playing chess; keeping count of the sound of a small gong; mentally computing arithmetic sums involving addition, subtraction, multiplication and division (4); keeping count of the movement of beads along a thread; solving eight new problems; composing verses on eight diverse topics selected at the time and in the specific metre chosen by various members of the audience (16); rearranging 400 words of various languages spoken in random order including Greek, English, Sanskrit, Hindi, Arabic, Latin, Urdu, Gujarati, Marathi, Bengali, Maru, Jadeji, in the right order of subject, predicate (16); teaching a student; contemplating various figures of speech (2); all at one time.\n\nHe performed \"śatāvadhāna\" (100 \"Avadhāna\") at Sir Framji Cowasji Institute in Bombay on 22 January 1887, which gained him praise and publicity. He was awarded gold medals by institutes and public for his performances as well as title of ‘Sakshat Saraswati’ (Incarnation of the Goddess of Knowledge). Rajchandra believed that the publicity gained by such \"Avadhāna\"s may became an obstacle in spiritual pursuits, so he gradually discouraged the performances and stopped it completely by age of 20. The performances attracted wide coverage in national newspapers. In September 1893, when in Chicago, Virchand Gandhi mentioned this feat at the Parliament of the World's Religions.\n\nIn 1887 (Maha Sud 12, VS 1944), Rajchandra married to Zabakben, daughter of Popatlal, the elder brother of Revashankar Jagjivandas Mehta, a Zaveri merchant family. He then engaged in the pearls and diamond business. They had two sons and two daughters. His in-laws wanted him to move to Bombay and establish business there, but he was interested in his spiritual pursuits.\n\nIn 1890 (VS 1947), he experienced the self-realization for the first time at Uttarsanda where he was meditating under a mango tree near a lake. The tree no longer exists but a memorial shrine dedicated to the event is built there. He continued his householder life for more six years and had been successful in his business.\n\nHe is well known as a spiritual guide of Mahatma Gandhi. They were introduced in Mumbai in 1891 and had various conversations through letters while Gandhi was in South Africa. Gandhi noted his impression of Shrimad Rajchandra in his autobiography, \"The Story of My Experiments with Truth\", calling Raichandbhai his \"guide and helper\" and his \"refuge in moments of spiritual crisis\". He advised Gandhi to be patient and to study Hinduism deeply. His teaching directly influenced Gandhi's non-violence philosophy.\nHe stayed in Gujarat with his disciples and avoided moving to Bombay. He retired from householder life and business when he was thirty. He spent three months in Idar where he had instructed seven monks in religious discourses sitting on a stone, \"pudhvi śila\". A memorial temple and a prayer hall is built there later.\n\nDuring his final years, he suffered a chronic digestive disorder. No specific cause of death was identified except extreme weakness. In 1900, he lost large amount of his weight. He was under medical supervision who had advised to move to coastal region of Gujarat for benefit of health. He contracted an illness during his stay in Dharampur, Gujarat, from which he never recovered. In 1901, he, his mother, and wife stayed at Aga Khan's bungalow in Ahmedabad before moving to Wadhwan Camp. He died on 9 April 1901 (Chaitra Vad 5, VS 1957) in Rajkot (now in Gujarat) surrounded by his family, friends and disciples. A small photograph taken after his death is displayed in a library in Khambhat established by him. The room where he died is now a prayer hall.\n\nRajchandra wrote \"Stri Niti Bodhaka\" (The Nature of Ideal Moral Life for Women, 1884) in which he had advocated women's education as essential to national freedom. \"Sad-bodh-shatak\" (1884) is his work on ethical topics. \"Mokshamala\" (1887) is about self-liberation written in an easy style understandable to young people. Due to delay in the publication of \"Mokshamala\", he composed \"Bhavna Bodh\" for his readers. It was a small book of fifty pages in which he gave instructions to cultivate 12 sentiments to lead the life of non-attachment. He had composed \"Namiraja\", a work of five thousand verses explaining the nature of the four purusharthas. In \"Shurvir Smarana\" (1885), Rajchandra described the brave warriors of the past and compared them with their descendants who are not able to free India from British dominance.\n\nIn Atma Siddhi, a Gujarati short verse poem, he propounds six fundamental truths on soul which are also known as \"satapada\" (six steps). He lays special emphasis on right perception (samyaktva), personal efforts and a true teacher’s guidance in the path to self-realisation. It is summary of his interpretation of Jainism. It is adapted in a musical bhajan form by Shefali Shah. It is translated in English several times; the first by J. L. Jaini in 1923. Its popular translation was published by Brahmachari Govardhandas in 1957.\n\nHe wrote more than 900 letters which charts his spiritual journey and teachings to disciples. He also edited a newspaper, \"Vairagya Vilas\".\n\n\"Shrimad Rajchandra\" or \"Vachanamrut\" is collection of his complete works including letters and other writings.\n\nHis several poems are popular including \"Apoorva Avsar Evo Kyare Aavshe..\", \"Mool Marg Sambhlo Jinno Re..\", \"Bina Nayan Pavey Nahi..\", \"Hey Prabhu! Hey Prabhu! Shu Kahu..\", \"Yam Niyam Sanjam Aap Kiyo..\", \"Ichche Chhe Je Jogijan..\". \"Apoorva Avsar Evo Kyare Aavshe..\" and \"Hey Prabhu! Hey Prabhu! Shu Kahu..\" were Mahatma Gandhi's favourite bhajans and were included in the \"Ashram Bhajanavali\".\n\nRajchandra wrote 51 quotes on \"Samyati Dharma\" (the religion of monk) as described in \"Dasha Vaikalika Siddhanta\" (VS 1945). It is Gujarati rendering of the original Magadhi text. He also wrote commentary on \"Moksha Siddhanta\" (VS 1953). He incompletely translated Chidanandji's \"Swarodayagyan\". He wrote an incomplete commentary on \"Chauvisi\" of Anandghan. In his three letters (No. 393, 394 and 395 printed in \"Shrimad Rajchandra\"), he commented on one of the couplets of sixth out of the eight perspective, \"Ath Yogdrashtini Sajjhaya\" composed by Yashovijaya. He wrote equivalent Gujarati translation of the first 100 verses of \"Atmanushasan\". He wrote on three \"Bhavna\" or Contemplations (\"Anitya\", \"Asharan\" and a little on \"Sansara Bhavna\") out of 12 \"Bhavna\" described in \"Shri Ratnakarand Shravakaachar\". He completely translated \"Panchastikaya\" of Kundakunda. He had prepared an index on the \"Pragnavabodh\" (VS 1956).\n\nRajchandra was inspired by works of Kundakunda and Digambara mystical tradition and, in turn, inspired several spiritual teachers and followers including people from all schools of Jainism. His followers sometimes consider his teaching as a new path of Jainism, neither Svetambara nor Digambara, and revere him as a saint. His path is sometimes referred as \"Raj Bhakta Marg\", \"Kavipanth\", or \"Shrimadia\", which has mostly lay followers as was Rajchandra himself. His teachings influenced Kanji Swami, Dada Bhagwan, Rakesh Jhaveri, Saubhagbhai, Lalluji Maharaj (Laghuraj Swami), Atmanandji and several other religious figures. Some of them established temples and institutions in his dedication and to spread his teachings. Such temples often house his pictures and images based on photographs taken in a studio in various meditation postures just a month before his death. Shrimad Rajchandra’s teachings have been popular in the Jain diaspora communities; mostly in East Africa, the United Kingdom and North America.\n\nA special cover featuring him and Rabindranath Tagore was published by India Post on occasion of Gandhi Jayanti in 2002.\n\nThe Government of India released 10 coins, 150 souvenir coins and the stamps at the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad on 29 June 2017 as the commemoration of Shrimad Rajchandra's 150th birth anniversary. U.C. Riverside’s College of Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences and the Department of Religious Studies announced the establishment the Shrimad Rajchandra Endowed Chair in Jain Studies on 17 February 2017.\n\nA 34-feet idol of Rajchandra was inaugurated in November 2017 at Shrimad Rajchandra Ashram Dharampur by Rakesh Jhaveri and Sri Sri Ravishankar.\n\nA Gujarati play entitled \"Yugpurush: Mahatma na Mahatma\" depicting the spiritual relationship between Shrimad Rajchandra and Mahatma Gandhi was produced by Shrimad Rajchandra Mission, Dharampur, in November 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "43406684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43406684", "title": "Society for Ethics Across the Curriculum", "text": "Society for Ethics Across the Curriculum\n\nThe Society for Ethics Across the Curriculum (SEAC) is a non-profit learned society based in the United States. Established in 1992, its mission is to stimulate scholarship on ethics and the teaching of ethics in all academic disciplines. The society sponsors the development of ethics-related resources for academic use; holds an annual conference; and produces the scholarly journal \"Teaching Ethics\". The society's activities are supported in part by the Fund for the Improvement of Post-Secondary Education. The society's memberships and its journal are managed by the Philosophy Documentation Center.\n\nSEAC members have online access to the following publications to support their research:\n\nThe annual meetings of the Society for Ethics Across the Curriculum is held each Fall at a different location in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "26750950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26750950", "title": "Stephen J. Benkovic", "text": "Stephen J. Benkovic\n\nStephen James Benkovic (born April 20, 1938) is an American chemist. He is Evan Pugh Professor and Eberly Chair in Chemistry at Penn State University. His research has focused on mechanistic enzymology and the discovery of enzyme inhibitors. He was elected to the United States National Academy of Sciences in 1985.\n\nBenkovic was born in Orange, New Jersey. He earned his B.S. degree in chemistry and an A.B. degree in English literature from Lehigh University in 1960. He earned his Ph.D in organic chemistry from Cornell University in 1963.\n\nBenkovic was a postdoc at University of California, Santa Barbara. There he and his advisor Thomas C. Bruice developed bioorganic textbooks that focused on enzyme catalysis. He joined the chemistry department at Penn State University in 1965. There, he uses the T4 DNA polymerase as a model system to explain the proficiency of enzymes. He also uses the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase and the pathway for \"de novo\" purine biosynthesis to gain insights into enzymatic catalysis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30690", "title": "Tai chi", "text": "Tai chi\n\nTai chi (taiji), short for T'ai chi ch'üan, or Tai ji quan (pinyin: tàijíquán; 太极拳), is an internal Chinese martial art practiced for both its defense training and its health benefits. The term \"taiji\" refers to a philosophy of the forces of yin and yang, related to the moves. Though originally conceived as a martial art, it is also typically practiced for a variety of other personal reasons: competitive wrestling in the format of pushing hands (\"tui shou\"), demonstration competitions and achieving greater longevity. As a result, a multitude of training forms exist, both traditional and modern, which correspond to those aims with differing emphasis. Some training forms of tàijíquán are especially known for being practiced with relatively slow movements.\n\nToday, tai chi has spread worldwide. Most modern styles of tai chi trace their development to at least one of the five traditional schools: Chen, Yang, Wu (Hao), Wu and Sun. All of the former, in turn, trace their historical origins to Chen Village.\n\nThe concept of the \"taiji\" (\"supreme ultimate\"), in contrast with \"wuji\" (\"without ultimate\"), appears in both Taoist and Confucian Chinese philosophy, where it represents the fusion or mother of yin and yang into a single ultimate, represented by the \"taijitu\" symbol . Tàijíquán theory and practice evolved in agreement with many Chinese philosophical principles, including those of Taoism and Confucianism.\n\nTàijíquán training involves five elements, \"taolu\" (solo hand and weapons routines/forms), \"neigong\" and \"qigong\" (breathing, movement and awareness exercises and meditation), \"tuishou\" (response drills) and \"sanshou\" (self defence techniques). While tàijíquán is typified by some for its slow movements, many styles (including the three most popular: Yang, Wu and Chen) have secondary forms with faster pace. Some traditional schools teach partner exercises known as \"tuishou\" (\"pushing hands\"), and martial applications of the postures of different forms (taolu).\n\nIn China, tàijíquán is categorized under the \"Wudang\" grouping of Chinese martial arts—that is, the arts applied with internal power. Although the term Wudang suggests these arts originated in the Wudang Mountains, it is simply used to distinguish the skills, theories and applications of \"neijia\" (internal arts) from those of the Shaolin grouping, or \"waijia\" (hard or external) styles.\n\nSince the earliest widespread promotion of the health benefits of tàijíquán by Yang Shaohou, Yang Chengfu, Wu Chien-ch‘üan and Sun Lutang in the early 20th century, it has developed a worldwide following of people, often with little or no interest in martial training, for its benefit to personal health. Medical studies of t‘ai-chi support its effectiveness as an alternative exercise and a form of martial arts therapy.\n\nIt is purported that focusing the mind solely on the movements of the form helps to bring about a state of mental calm and clarity. Besides general health benefits and stress management attributed to tàijíquán training, aspects of traditional Chinese medicine are taught to advanced students in some traditional schools.\n\nSome other forms of martial arts require students to wear a uniform during practice. In general, tàijíquán schools do not require a uniform, but both traditional and modern teachers often advocate loose, comfortable clothing and flat-soled shoes.\n\nThe physical techniques of tàijíquán are described in the \"T‘ai-chi classics\", a set of writings by traditional masters, as being characterized by the use of leverage through the joints based on coordination and relaxation, rather than muscular tension, in order to neutralize, yield or initiate attacks. The slow, repetitive work involved in the process of learning how that leverage is generated gently and measurably increases, as well as opens, the internal circulation (breath, body heat, blood, lymph, peristalsis).\n\nThe study of tàijíquán primarily involves three aspects:\n\n\"Tàijíquán\" and \"T‘ai-chi ch‘üan\" are two different transcriptions of three Chinese characters that are the written Chinese name for the artform:\nDespite the one Chinese spelling, 太極拳, there are two different spellings in the English usage, one derived from the Wade–Giles and the other from the Pinyin transcription. Most Westerners often shorten this name to \"t‘ai chi\" (often omitting the aspirate sign—thus becoming \"tai chi\"). This shortened name is the same as that of the \"t‘ai-chi\" philosophy, sometimes causing confusion of the two. The \"chi\" in the name of the martial art may also be mistaken for \"ch‘i\", (\"qi\" 氣) the \"life force,\" especially as \"ch‘i\" is involved in the practice of \"t‘ai-chi ch‘üan.\" <br>\nMost Chinese, including many professional practitioners, masters, and martial arts bodies (such as the IWUF), use the Pinyin version.\n\nFrom a modern historical perspective, when tracing tàijíquán's formative influences to Taoist and Buddhist monasteries, there seems little more to go on than legendary tales. Nevertheless, some traditional schools claim that tàijíquán has a practical connection to and dependence upon the theories of Song dynasty Neo-Confucianism (a conscious synthesis of Taoist, Buddhist, and Confucian traditions, especially the teachings of Mencius). These schools believe that tàijíquán's theories and practice were formulated by the Taoist monk Zhang Sanfeng in the 12th century, at about the same time that the principles of the Neo-Confucian school were making themselves felt in Chinese intellectual life. However, modern research casts serious doubts on the validity of those claims, pointing out that a 17th-century piece called \"Epitaph for Wang Zhengnan\" (1669), composed by Huang Zongxi (1610–1695), is the earliest reference indicating any connection between Zhang Sanfeng and martial arts whatsoever, and must not be taken literally but must be understood as a political metaphor instead. Claims of connections between tàijíquán and Zhang Sanfeng appeared no earlier than the 19th century.\n\nHistory records that Yang Luchan trained with the Chen family for 18 years before he started to teach the art in Beijing, which strongly suggests that his art was based on, or heavily influenced by, the Chen family art. The Chen family are able to trace the development of their art back to Chen Wangting in the 17th century. Martial arts historian Xu Zhen believed that the Taiji of Chen Village had been influenced by the \"Taizu changquan\" style practiced at the nearby Shaolin Monastery, while Tang Hao thought it was derived from a treatise by the Ming dynasty general Qi Jiguang, \"Jixiao Xinshu\" (\"New Treatise on Military Efficiency\"), which discussed several martial arts styles including \"Taizu changquan\".\n\nWhat is now known as tàijíquán appears to have received this appellation from only around the mid of the 19th century. A scholar in the Imperial Court by the name of Ong Tong He witnessed a demonstration by Yang Luchan at a time before Yang had established his reputation as a teacher. Afterwards Ong wrote: \"Hands holding Taiji shakes the whole world, a chest containing ultimate skill defeats a gathering of heroes.\" Before this time the art may have had a number of different names, and appears to have been generically described by outsiders as \"zhan quan\" (沾拳, \"touch boxing\"), \"Mian Quan\" (\"soft boxing\") or \"shisan shi\" (十三式, \"the thirteen techniques\").\n\nThere are five major styles of tàijíquán, each named after the Chinese family from which it originated:\n\nThe order of verifiable age is as listed above. The order of popularity (in terms of number of practitioners) is Yang, Wu, Chen, Sun and Wu/Hao. The major family styles share much underlying theory, but differ in their approaches to training.\n\nThere are now dozens of new styles, hybrid styles, and offshoots of the main styles, but the five family schools are the groups recognized by the international community as being the orthodox styles. Other important styles are Zhaobao tàijíquán, a close cousin of Chen style, which has been newly recognized by Western practitioners as a distinct style, the Fu style, created by Fu Chen Sung, which evolved from Chen, Sun and Yang styles, and also incorporates movements from Baguazhang (Pa Kua Chang) and the Cheng Man-ch'ing style which is a simplification of the traditional Yang style.\n\nMost existing styles can be traced back to the Chen style, which had been passed down as a family secret for generations. \nThe designation \"internal\" or \"neijia\" martial arts is also used to broadly distinguish what are known as the \"external\" or \"waijia\" styles based on the \"Shaolinquan\" styles, although that distinction is sometimes disputed by modern schools. In this broad sense, \"all\" styles of t'ai chi, as well as related arts such as Baguazhang and Xingyiquan, are, therefore, considered to be \"soft\" or \"internal\" martial arts.\n\nChoy Hok Pang, a disciple of Yang Chengfu, was the first known proponent of tàijíquán to openly teach in the United States of America in 1939. Subsequently, his son and student Choy Kam Man emigrated to San Francisco from Hong Kong in 1949 to teach t‘ai-chi ch‘üan in San Francisco's Chinatown. Choy Kam Man taught until he died in 1994.\n\nSophia Delza, a professional dancer and student of Ma Yueliang, performed the first known public demonstration of tàijíquán in the United States at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City in 1954. She also wrote the first English language book on t‘ai-chi, \"T‘ai-chi ch‘üan: Body and Mind in Harmony\", in 1961. She taught regular classes at Carnegie Hall, the Actors Studio, and the United Nations.\n\nAnother early practitioner of tàijíquán to openly teach in the United States was Zheng Manqing/Cheng Man-ch'ing, who opened his school Shr Jung t‘ai-chi after he moved to New York from Taiwan in year 1964. Unlike the older generation of practitioners, Zheng was cultured and educated in American ways, and thus he was able to transcribe Yang's dictation into a written manuscript that became the de facto manual for Yang style. Zheng felt Yang's traditional 108-movement long form was unnecessarily long and repetitive, which makes it difficult to learn and make progress. He thus created a shortened 37-movement version and taught that in his schools. Zheng's form became very popular and was the dominant form in the eastern United States until other teachers started to emigrate to the United States in larger numbers in the 90's. He taught until his death in 1975. \n\nThe Cheng Man-ch‘ing (Zheng Manqing) and Chinese Sports Commission short forms are derived from Yang family forms, but neither is recognized as Yang family tàijíquán by standard-bearing Yang family teachers. The Chen, Yang, and Wu families are now promoting their own shortened demonstration forms for competitive purposes.\n\nIn the last twenty years or so, tàijíquán classes that purely emphasise health have become popular in hospitals, clinics, as well as community and senior centres. This has occurred as the baby boomers generation has aged and the art's reputation as a low-stress training method for seniors has become better known.\n\nAs a result of this popularity, there has been some divergence between those that say they practice tàijíquán primarily for self-defence, those that practice it for its aesthetic appeal (see \"wushu\" below), and those that are more interested in its benefits to physical and mental health. The \"wushu\" aspect is primarily for show; the forms taught for those purposes are designed to earn points in competition and are mostly unconcerned with either health maintenance or martial ability. More traditional stylists believe the two aspects of health and martial arts are equally necessary: the \"yin and yang\" of tàijíquán. The tàijíquán \"family\" schools, therefore, still present their teachings in a martial art context, whatever the intention of their students in studying the art.\n\nIn order to standardize t‘ai-chi ch‘üan for \"wushu\" tournament judging, and because many tàijíquán teachers have either moved out of China or had been forced to stop teaching after the Chinese Civil War in 1949, the government sponsored the Chinese Sports Committee, who brought together four of their \"wushu\" teachers to truncate the Yang family hand form to 24 postures in 1956. They wanted to retain the look of tàijíquán, but create a routine that would be less difficult to teach and much less difficult to learn than longer (in general, 88 to 108 posture), classical, solo hand forms. In 1976, they developed a slightly longer form also for the purposes of demonstration that still would not involve the complete memory, balance, and coordination requirements of the traditional forms. This became the \"Combined 48 Forms\" that were created by three \"wushu\" coaches, headed by Men Hui Feng. The combined forms were created based on simplifying and combining some features of the classical forms from four of the original styles: Chen, Yang, Wu, and Sun. As tàijíquán again became popular on the mainland, more competitive forms were developed to be completed within a six-minute time limit. In the late 1980s, the Chinese Sports Committee standardized many different competition forms. They developed sets to represent the four major styles as well as combined forms. These five sets of forms were created by different teams, and later approved by a committee of \"wushu\" coaches in China. All sets of forms thus created were named after their style: the \"Chen-style national competition form\" is the \"56 Forms\". The combined forms are \"The 42-Form\" or simply the \"Competition Form\". Another modern form is the \"97 movements combined t‘ai-chi ch‘üan form\", created in the 1950s; it contains characteristics of the Yang, Wu, Sun, Chen, and Fu styles blended into a combined form. The \"wushu\" coach Bow Sim Mark is a notable exponent of the \"67 combined form\".\n\nThese modern versions of tàijíquán have since become an integral part of international \"wushu\" tournament competition, and have been featured in popular movies, starring or choreographed by well-known \"wushu\" competitors, such as Jet Li and Donnie Yen.\n\nIn the 11th Asian Games of 1990, \"wushu\" was included as an item for competition for the first time with the \"42-Form\" being chosen to represent t‘ai-chi ch‘üan. The International Wushu Federation (IWUF) applied for \"wushu\" to be part of the Olympic games, but will not count medals.\n\nPractitioners also test their practical martial skills against students from other schools and martial arts styles in \"tuishou\" (\"pushing hands\") and \"sanshou\" competition.\n\nThe philosophy of tàijíquán is that, if one uses hardness to resist violent force, then both sides are certainly to be injured at least to some degree. Such injury, according to tàijíquán, is a natural consequence of meeting brute force with brute force. Instead, students are taught not to directly fight or resist an incoming force, but to meet it in softness and follow its motion while remaining in physical contact until the incoming force of attack exhausts itself or can be safely redirected, meeting \"yang\" with \"yin\". When done correctly, this \"yin/yang\" or \"yang/yin\" balance in combat, or in a broader philosophical sense, is a primary goal of tàijíquán training. Lao Tzŭ provided the archetype for this in the Tao Te Ching when he wrote, \"The soft and the pliable will defeat the hard and strong.\"\n\nTraditional schools also emphasize that one is expected to show \"wude\" (\"martial virtue/heroism\"), to protect the defenseless, and show mercy to one's opponents.\nThe core training involves two primary features: the first being \"taolu\" (solo \"forms\"), a sequence of movements which emphasize a straight spine, abdominal breathing and a natural range of motion; the second being different styles of \"tuishou\" (\"pushing hands\") for training movement principles of the form with a partner and in a more practical manner.\n\nThe \"taolu\" (solo \"forms\") should take the students through a complete, natural range of motion over their centre of gravity. Accurate, repeated practice of the solo routine is said to retrain posture, encourage circulation throughout the students' bodies, maintain flexibility through their joints, and further familiarize students with the martial application sequences implied by the various forms. The major traditional styles of tàijíquán have forms that differ somewhat in terms of aesthetics, but there are also many obvious similarities that point to their common origin. The solo forms (empty-hand and weapon) are catalogues of movements that are practised individually in pushing hands and martial application scenarios to prepare students for self-defence training. In most traditional schools, different variations of the solo forms can be practised: fast / slow, small-circle / large-circle, square / round (which are different expressions of leverage through the joints), low-sitting / high-sitting (the degree to which weight-bearing knees are kept bent throughout the form), for example.\n\nBreathing exercises; \"neigong\" (internal skill) or, more commonly, \"qigong\" (life energy cultivation) are practiced to develop \"qi\" (life energy) in coordination with physical movement and \"zhan zhuang\" (standing like a post) or combinations of the two. These were formerly taught only to disciples as a separate, complementary training system. In the last 60 years they have become better known to the general public.\n\n\"Qigong\" involves coordinated movement, breath, and awareness used for health, meditation, and martial arts training. While many scholars and practitioners consider tàijíquán to be a type of \"qigong\", the two are commonly distinguished as separate but closely related practices, with \"qigong\" playing an important role in training for tàijíquán, and with many tàijíquán movements performed as part of qigong practice. The focus of qigong is typically more on health or meditation than martial applications. Internally the main difference is the flow of \"qi\". In qigong, the flow of \"qi\" is held at a gate point for a moment to aid the opening and cleansing of the channels. In tàijíquán, the flow of \"qi\" is continuous, thus allowing the development of power for the use by the practitioner.\n\nTàijíquán's martial aspect relies on sensitivity to the opponent's movements and centre of gravity dictating appropriate responses. Effectively affecting the opponent's centre of gravity immediately upon contact, is trained as the primary goal of the martial t‘ai-chi ch‘üan student. The sensitivity needed to capture the centre is acquired over thousands of hours of first \"yin\" (slow, repetitive, meditative, low-impact) and then later adding \"yang\" (realistic, active, fast, high-impact) martial training through \"taolu\" (forms), \"tuishou\" (pushing hands), and \"sanshou\" (sparring). Tàijíquán trains in three basic ranges: close, medium and long, and then everything in between. Pushes and open-hand strikes are more common than punches, and kicks are usually to the legs and lower torso, never higher than the hip, depending on style. The fingers, fists, palms, sides of the hands, wrists, forearms, elbows, shoulders, back, hips, knees, and feet are commonly used to strike, with strikes to the eyes, throat, heart, groin, and other acupressure points trained by advanced students. \"Chin na\", which are joint traps, locks, and breaks are also used. Most tàijíquán teachers expect their students to thoroughly learn defensive or neutralizing skills first, and a student will have to demonstrate proficiency with them before offensive skills will be extensively trained.\n\nIn addition to the physical form, martial tàijíquán schools also focus on how the energy of a strike affects the other person. A palm strike that looks to have the same movement may be performed in such a way that it has a completely different effect on the target's body. A palm strike that could simply push the opponent backward, could instead be focused in such a way as to lift the opponent vertically off the ground, breaking his/her centre of gravity; or that it could terminate the force of the strike within the other person's body with the intent of causing internal damage.\n\nMost aspects of a trainee's tàijíquán development are meant to be covered within the\npartnered practice of \"tuishou\", and so, \"sanshou\" (sparring) is not as commonly used as a method of training, but more advanced students sometimes do practice by \"sanshou\". \"Sanshou\" is more common to tournaments such as \"wushu\" tournaments.\n\nVariations of tàijíquán involving weapons also exist.\nThe weapons training and fencing applications employ:\n\nMore exotic weapons still used by some traditional styles include:\n\nTai chi has been reported as being useful in treating a number of human ailments, and is supported by a number of associations, including the National Parkinson Foundation and Diabetes Australia. However, medical evidence of effectiveness was lacking and in recent years research has been undertaken to address this. A 2017 systematic review found that it decreased the risk of falls in older people.\n\nA 2011 comprehensive overview of systematic reviews of tai chi recommended tai chi to older people for its various physical and psychological benefits. There was no conclusive evidence of benefit for any of the other conditions researched, including Parkinson's disease, diabetes, cancer and arthritis.\n\nA 2015 systematic review found tai chi could be performed by those with chronic medical conditions such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, heart failure, and osteoarthritis without worsening shortness of breath and pain, and found favorable effects on functional exercise capacity in people with these conditions.\n\nIn 2015 the Australian Government's Department of Health published the results of a review of alternative therapies that sought to determine if any were suitable for being covered by health insurance; t‘ai-chi was one of 17 therapies evaluated and the conclusion was that there is very-low-quality evidence to suggest that tai chi may have some beneficial health effects when compared to control in a limited number of populations for a limited number of outcomes.\n\nTraditional tai chi was originally developed for self-defense, but tai chi has evolved into a graceful form of seated exercise that's now used for stress reduction and a variety of other health conditions. Often described as meditation in motion, seated tai chi promotes serenity through gentle, flowing movements. Worthy of note is the growing popularity of seated tai chi exercises touted by the medical community and researchers. Seated tai chi is based primarily on the Yang short form, and is being used by the general public, medical practitioners, and tai chi instructors in a growing elderly population. It would have been possible to simply take the well-known yang short form and \nredesign it for seated positions. There is, however, the matter of the integrity of the form itself. Within any tai chi form, there lies a certain inherent logic and purpose to each of the movements. The synchronization of the upper body with the steps and the breathing exists in a very carefully crafted order developed over hundreds of years, and the transition to seated positions is an important factor in the movements themselves. Research has shown that seated tai chi techniques can make big improvements to a person's physical and mental well being. Marked improvements in balance, blood pressure levels, flexibility and muscle strength, peak oxygen intake, and body fat percentages can be achieved.\n\n\nIn practice traditionally there is no specific uniform required in the practice of tàijíquán. Modern day practitioners usually wear comfortable, loose T-shirts and trousers made from breathable natural fabrics, that allow for free movement during practice. Despite this, t‘ai-chi ch‘üan has become synonymous with \"t‘ai-chi uniforms\" or \"kung fu uniforms\" that usually consist of loose-fitting traditional Chinese styled trousers and a long or short-sleeved shirt, with a Mandarin collar and buttoned with Chinese frog buttons. The long-sleeved variants are referred to as Northern-style uniforms, whilst the short-sleeved, Southern-style uniforms. The colour of this clothing is usually, all white, all black, black and white, or any other colour, mostly being either all a single solid colour or a combination of 2 colours: one colour being the actual clothing and the binding being a contrasting colour. They are normally made from natural fabrics such as cotton or silk. These \"uniforms\" are not a requirement, but rather are usually worn by masters & professional practitioners during demonstrations, tournaments and other public exhibitions.\n\nThere is no standardized tàijíquán ranking system, except the Chinese Wushu Duan wei exam system run by the Chinese wushu association in Beijing. However, most schools do not use belt rankings. Some schools may present students with belts depicting rank, similar to \"dans\" in Japanese martial arts. A simple uniform element of respect and allegiance to one's teacher and their methods and community, belts also mark hierarchy, skill, and accomplishment of practice in one school's style and system. During \"wushu\" tournaments, masters and grandmasters often wear \"kung fu uniforms\" which tend to have no belts. Wearing a belt signifying rank in such a situation would be unusual.\n\nFrom roughly the mid-1990s onward, Tai Chi has gained a popularity in some countries to the point of it becoming nearly as known as a health-oriented practice as Yoga. In fact, in modern times it is even more known for such benefits and methods of practice than it is known for its original purpose.\n\nA new phenomenon (since the 2000s) is of various martial arts styles claiming a historical relationship or otherwise with Taiji Quan, because of its popularity. A branch of Lama Pai known as \"Tibetan White Crane\" had popularized a slow-movement form by naming it \"Needle in Cotton\" (a common term describing Taiji Quan mechanics), and referring to its practice as \"Tai Chi\". However, there is no relationship between these arts, historic or otherwise.\nA similar phenomenon occurs with the usage of the art's name as a universal brand for promoting various fitness programs, books and videos. There is, for instance, a book that describes how to use the training principles of Tai Chi to run better. Regardless of the questions of whether such claims are viable, these are all new trends, which historically were not endorsed or promoted by teachers of the art.\n\n"}
{"id": "912033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=912033", "title": "Ted Honderich", "text": "Ted Honderich\n\nTed Honderich (born 30 January 1933) is a Canadian-born British philosopher, Grote Professor Emeritus of the Philosophy of Mind and Logic, University College London. His work has been mainly about five things: consciousness and mind, including the consciousness–brain relation; right and wrong in the contemporary world particularly with democracy, terrorism and war; advocacy of the Principle of Humanity; determinism and freedom; particular problems in logical analysis and metaphysics; the supposed justification of punishment by the state; the political tradition of conservatism. He has given lectures and talks in British, continental European, Irish, American, Canadian, Asian, Russian, and African universities.\n\nHonderich was born Edgar Dawn Ross Honderich on 30 January 1933 in Baden, Ontario, Canada. An undergraduate at the University of Toronto, qualifying as B.A. (Hons) in Philosophy and English Literature, he came to University College London to study under the logical positivist and Grote Professor A. J. Ayer, graduating with a PhD in 1968. He has since lived in England and become a British citizen. After being a lecturer at the University of Sussex he became lecturer, reader, professor and then Grote Professor at University College London. He was visiting professor at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, Yale and the universities of Bath and Calgary. He is author of many books and articles on such subjects as consciousness, determinism, qualia, functionalism, timings of sensory experiences, psychophysical intimacy, the correspondence theory of truth, Russell's theory of descriptions, time, causation, Mill's \"On Liberty\", John Searle's view of free will and G. A. Cohen's defence of Marx's theory of history. He has also edited several series of philosophy books.\n\nHe has been involved in controversy for his moral defence of Palestinian political violence, despite his justification of the founding and maintaining of Israel in its original 1948 borders.\n\nHis papers in philosophical journals have been published in three volumes by Edinburgh University Press. He has appeared on radio and television, is the editor of \"The Oxford Companion to Philosophy\", has written a philosophical autobiography and is chairman of the Royal Institute of Philosophy where he inaugurated the annual lectures subsequently published as \"Philosophers of Our Times\". He is married to Ingrid Coggin Honderich.\n\nHonderich's theory of consciousness in the long book \"Actual Consciousness\" and the precis-book \"Your Being Conscious is What? Where?\" replaces entirely his philosophy of mind in \"A Theory of Determinism: The Mind, Neuroscience and Life-Hopes\" and the precis-book \"How Free Are You?\". The new theory derives from a database to the effect that being conscious, figuratively speaking, is something's being actual. This issues, by way of (a) speculation that disagreement about consciousness is significantly owed to no adequate initial clarification of the subject matter, and (b) examination of five leading ideas of consciousness and existing theories of consciousness, and (c) a specification of the objective physical world, into the wholly literal theory or analysis of the nature of consciousness called Actualism. It distinguishes three sides of consciousness: (1) perceptual consciousness -- consciousness in perception, (2) cognitive consciousness, and (3) affective consciousness. In each case the theory satisfies the two primary criteria of explaining what is actual, and what its being actual consists in. In the case of perceptual consciousness what is actual is only a subjective physical world out there. I.e. being perceptually conscious is essentially or primarily a state of affairs external to the perceiver. Its being actual is its being subjectively physical, which is specified. In the case of cognitive and affective consciousness, what is actual is representations, internal to the conscious thing, and their being actual is their being subjectively physical, differently so from subjective physical worlds. Actualism argues, further, that it satisfies further criteria better than other existing theories of consciousness including one of subjectivity, individuality or personal identity, and that it is relevant to desires for human standing that are the motivation of beliefs in free will as against determinism. Actualism has been received as a new and arguabletheory by philosophers who have previously declared the urgent need for one. A predecessor of the theory is discussed by 11 others philosophers in \"Radical Externalism: Honderich's Theory of Consciousness Discussed\", ed. Anthony Freeman, Imprint Academic.\n\nIn \"A Theory of Determinism: The Mind, Neuroscience and Life-Hopes\" and in the precis-book \"How Free Are You?\", Honderich expounds a theory of causation as well as other lawlike connections. This he uses to formulate three hypotheses of a deterministic philosophy of mind. They are argued to be true, mainly on the basis of neuroscience. The clarity of determinism is contrasted with the obscurity of the doctrines of free will or origination.\n\nThe centuries-dominant philosophical traditions of determinism and freedom, Compatibilism and Incompatibilism, are examined. According to the first, determinism is consistent with our freedom and moral responsibility; according to the second, it is inconsistent with them. Honderich considers Compatibilism's argument that our freedom consists in voluntariness, doing what we desire and not being coerced; hence its conclusion that determinism and freedom can go together. He also examines Incompatibilism's argument that our freedom consists in origination or free will, our choosing without our choosing's being caused; hence the conclusion that determinism and freedom are inconsistent.\n\nHonderich argues that both views are mistaken, since freedom as voluntariness and freedom as origination are each as fundamental to our lives. The real problem of the consequences of determinism is not choosing between the two traditional doctrines, but a more practical one: trying to give up what must be given up, since we do not have the power of origination. Honderich's rejection of both traditions has been taken up by other philosophers, many of whom find his criticisms decisive.\n\nHonderich's Union Theory of mind and brain is defended in \"A Theory of Determinism\". The Union Theory takes it as possible that conscious events like our choices and decisions are in a way subjective but are nevertheless physical rather than near-physical events. They stand in a kind of lawlike connection with neural events, sometimes called the supervenience of mental events on neural events. These psychoneural pairs, as Honderich calls them, are just effects of certain causal sequences, and are causes of our actions. This sort of physicalism, a predecessor to the notion of supervenience, has since been succeeded in Honderich's writings by the near-physicalism of Radical Externalism. Radical Externalism holds that perceptual consciousness does not have a nomic sufficient condition in a head but only a necessary one. Honderich argues that reflective and affective consciousness are different again. He also argues that this is consistent with contemporary neuroscience, rescues us from the argument from illusion or brain in a vat, and also from the dubious conclusions of sense-data theory and phenomenalism.\n\nHonderich argues that the Principle of Humanity is that what is right always consists in what, according to the best available knowledge and judgement, are actually rational steps, effective and not self-defeating ones rather than pretences, to the end of getting and keeping people out of bad lives. Bad lives are defined as those deprived of six fundamental human goods: a decent length of life, bodily well-being, freedom and power in various settings, respect and self-respect, the goods of relationship, and the goods of culture. It is a consequentialist principle, but not the principle of utility, nor of course the claim that the ends justify the means. Honderich argues that the principle is fundamental to but not the whole of a morality of humanity. This, he claims, includes certain policies of equality and inequality and certain practices, one being a better democracy than we have. Honderich concludes that the Principle of Humanity is better supported than any other sort of moral principle, on the basis of both consistency and certain facts. He takes it that non-consequentialist reasons are not really reasons at all, nor, he says, does the Principle grant any distinction between acts and omissions.\n\nFollowing 9/11, Honderich published \"After the Terror\". The author first lays out premises for what he terms the \"bad lives\" and \"good lives\", of those living in Africa and in rich countries respectively. With respect to bad lives, Honderich argues that our omissions have resulted in 20 million years of possible living-time lost by a certain sample of Africans. He also considers the creation of Israel in 1948 and records what he describes as the bad lives of Palestinians as a result of what is called the neo-Zionist expansion of Israel since the 1967 war. Honderich asks whether those in the rich societies do wrong in doing nothing about bad lives. He considers natural morality as well as our worked-out or philosophical moralities. Such outlooks as political realism and such ideologies as liberalism and libertarianism are also considered, as is what Honderich calls 'hierarchic democracy'. The Principle of Humanity is used to judge our moral responsibility for the many bad lives, which Honderich tells us is great. The Principle also condemns the terrorist killings of 11 September as hideous. The killings were not rational means to an end that was partly defensible. The West's subsequent attack on Afghanistan is excused. But the taking from Palestinians of at least their freedom in the last fifth of their homeland, historic Palestine, is condemned. Honderich writes: '...the Palestinians have had a moral right to their terrorism as certain as was the moral right, say, of the African people of South Africa against their white captors and the apartheid state'.\n\nHonderich claims that we need to see the power of our societies as deadly. Americans, first of all, because of their unique power, need to think more carefully about their actions. He also argues that we should supplement our democracies with the transformations of the civil disobedience of Henry David Thoreau, Martin Luther King, Jr., Bertrand Russell, and those in Eastern Europe who brought down the wall.\n\nHis later book, \"Humanity, Terrorism, Terrorist War: Palestine, 9/11, Iraq, 7/7...\" begins by asking if analytic philosophy in considering large questions of right and wrong should proceed by embracing international law, human rights, just war theory or the like. Honderich, finding these means of judgement wanting, again takes up the Principle of Humanity. The book justifies and defends Zionism, defined as the creation of Israel in its original borders, but also reaffirms that Palestinians have had a moral right to their liberation—to terrorism within historic Palestine against what Honderich calls the ethnic cleansing of Neo-Zionism, the expansion of Israel beyond its original borders. After a further consideration of 9/11, there is an analysis of 10 reasons for what he calls 'our terrorist war' in Iraq. Honderich condemns the war as morally barbaric, given the foreseen and thus intentional killing of many innocents. In condemning the 7/7 terrorist attack on London, Honderich considers the importance of horror to morality. He also argues that Tony Blair and George W. Bush are friends rather than enemies of terrorism. The book ends with a postscript on the charge of anti-semitism against critics of neo-Zionism – a charge Honderich says is principally a part of Neo-Zionism or at least something insufficiently detached from it.\n\nIn January 2011, Honderich wrote a letter to the Guardian on terrorism, in response to details released about the Israeli-Palestinian peace process:\nIn \"Punishment: The Supposed Justifications\", Honderich surveys and analyses 14 traditional, backward-looking reasons for the justification of punishment by the state. Most have to do with desert or retribution, others with annulment or consent. All are found to be weak or worse. Honderich then argues that the strong tradition of punishment must have in it some real content or argument. This is found to be that punishment is justified by giving satisfaction to grievance-desires—doing no more than satisfying them. This, Honderich concludes, is the reality of retributivism, but it cannot be an effective justification of punishment. The Utilitarian prevention theory of punishment is also rejected, because it justifies certain victimisations. Mixed theories of punishment, drawing on backward-looking considerations as well as the notion of prevention, sometimes in terms of the reform of offenders, are also found to be untenable. Robert Nozick's theory in particular is examined. Honderich's conclusion is that the long-running problem of the justification of punishment is now dead. Its justification must be in terms of its consequences—in discouraging and licensing certain kinds of behaviour. The live issue is determining what these are. Honderich's answer has to do with the Principle of Humanity. Punishment is or would be justified when it rationally takes forward the humanisation of our societies. He argues, on the basis of this, that most punishments are in fact wrong.\n\nHonderich's book \"Conservatism\" begins with a general inquiry into the distinctions between British and American conservatism. He argues that one has to do with eternal values and therefore with reform rather than change, a view underpinning Edmund Burke's condemnation of the French Revolution and all conservatives since. Other distinctions have to do with the right kind of political thinking and with human nature, with particular doctrines of incentive and reward, and with certain freedoms, including those of private property. Given these distinctions which set conservatism apart from other views, Honderich asks what underlies and brings these distinctions together. What is the rationale or underlying principle of conservatism? The answer he gives is not just that the conservative tradition is selfish. Its self-interest, he argues, does not distinguish it from other political traditions. What does distinguish it, Honderich concludes, is that it lacks a moral principle to defend its self-interest. It is unique in its amorality. \"Conservatism\" was enlarged as \"Conservatism: Burke, Nozick, Bush, Blair?\" in 2005, and includes Honderich's consideration of whether Britain's New Labour Party is truly in the conservative political tradition.\n\nHonderich has been involved in controversy since the publication of his book \"After the Terror\" in 2002. Honderich arranged with Oxfam in Britain and the publisher of \"After the Terror\", Edinburgh University Press, to have the £5,000 advance on royalties go to the charity, along with more money from the publishers. The Canadian newspaper \"The Globe and Mail\" suggested that Oxfam was taking money from a terrorist sympathiser, and it then declined the contributions, for which it was judged adversely in the British media. The book was published in a German translation. Micha Brumlik, director of a Holocaust centre and Professor of Pedagogy at Frankfurt University, demanded publicly that the book be withdrawn from sale by the publisher, Suhrkamp Verlag. Despite the declaration by the philosopher Jürgen Habermas, who had recommended the translation, that the book was not anti-semitic, it was withdrawn from sale. Honderich demanded the dismissal of Brumlik from his professorship, for violation of academic principle. There was a media furore in Germany. The book was retranslated and republished by an antizionist Jewish publishing house, Melzer Verlag. Lesser controversies have included an imputation of anti-semitism by a student newspaper in London, against which Honderich took successful legal action. There have been attacks by Palestinians on Honderich's justification of Zionism too, including disruptions at meetings.\n\nHonderich wrote a number of papers in criticism of Donald Davidson's Anomalous Monism, and in particular made the objection that on certain assumptions the view is epiphenomenalist. The papers are reprinted in \"Mental Causation and the Metaphysics of Mind\", edited by Neil Campbell. Earlier journal papers are about Austin's correspondence theory of truth, causation, time, Russell's theory of descriptions, and John Stuart Mill's essay \"On Liberty\". Honderich's philosophical autobiography, \"Philosopher: A Kind of Life\", is a personal and general picture of English academic life over several decades. An encyclopaedia edited by him, \"The Oxford Companion to Philosophy\", is in its second edition.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10250767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10250767", "title": "The Metaphysical Club: A Story of Ideas in America", "text": "The Metaphysical Club: A Story of Ideas in America\n\nThe Metaphysical Club: A Story of Ideas in America is a Pulitzer Prize-winning 2001 book by Louis Menand, an American writer and legal scholar, which won the 2002 Pulitzer Prize for History. The book recounts the lives and intellectual work of the handful of thinkers primarily responsible for the philosophical concept of pragmatism, a principal feature of American philosophical achievement: William James, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., Charles Sanders Peirce, and John Dewey. Pragmatism proved to be very influential on modern thought, for example, in spurring movements in modern legal thought such as legal realism.\n\nMenand traces the biography of each of these individuals, shows ways in which they were connected and how all were in a sense influenced by their times and by thinkers such as Ralph Waldo Emerson. The book begins by examining the family history and early life of Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., the future U.S. Supreme Court Justice, then describes how Holmes, James, Peirce, Dewey and others were acquainted with each other, and how their association led to James' development of pragmatism.\n\nA main focus of the book is the influence of the American Civil War on Americans in general and on the subjects of this book, as well as how the Civil War inspired pragmatism. For Holmes, the Civil War destroyed his entire perspective on the world and greatly shaped his judicial philosophy. Holmes's judicial philosophy developed at roughly the same time as Dewey, James and Peirce were beginning to develop pragmatist ideas. Other influences treated by the book are the emerging sciences of statistics and evolutionary biology.\n\nMenand's portrayal of pragmatism has been criticized by philosophers Susan Haack, Paul Boghossian, and Thomas L. Short.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21736936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21736936", "title": "The Schizophrenia of Modern Ethical Theories", "text": "The Schizophrenia of Modern Ethical Theories\n\n\"The Schizophrenia of Modern Ethical Theories\" is a 1976 paper in ethics by Michael Stocker. Published in \"The Journal of Philosophy\", the central claim of the paper is that some modern ethical theories fail to account for motive in their theories, producing a sort of schizophrenia because the agent is unable to use his reasons or motives as a basis for his actions. According to Stocker, motive is important to ethics and should be considered as well, rather than only \"duty, rightness and obligation\" which he believes are the main focuses of current theories. Stocker believes that this focus is not compatible with the motives required for goods such as love and friendship.\n\nStocker uses the example of a friend visiting you in the hospital. It is nice at first, however he reveals that he chose to spend time with you not out of concern for you in particular, but because he felt it was his moral duty. In this case, we feel that there is something missing in this action—we would much prefer to be visited by someone who cares about us directly, not just his duty.\n\n"}
{"id": "40251166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40251166", "title": "William Brede Kristensen", "text": "William Brede Kristensen\n\nWilliam Brede Kristensen (21 June 1867 in Kristiansand – 25 September 1953 in Leiden) was a Norwegian historian of religion.\n\nKristensen completed secondary school in 1884. For a short while he studied theology, but from the fall of 1887 he concentrated on history of religion, first in Kristiania, later (1890–92) at Leiden University under Professor Cornelis Petrus Tiele and 1892–93 in Paris under Gaston Maspero.\n\nIn 1896 he received his \"Doctor Philosophiae\" from the University of Kristiania on a thesis titled \"The Egyptians' Conceptions of Life after Death in Relation to the Gods Ra and Osiris\" (\"Ægypternes Forestillinger om Liv efter Døden i Forbindelse med Guderne Ra og Osiris\").\n\nKristensen was granted a scholarship, combined with the duty of giving lectures at University of Kristiania in 1898. In 1901 he became the successor of Professor Tiele in history of religion and Phenomenology of religion at Leiden University, a professorship he held until his retirement in 1937.\nKristensen can be seen as the anchorman of Dutch Phenomenology of religion. Kristensen argues that phenomenology seeks the “meaning” of religious phenomena. Kristensen clarifies this supposition by defining the meaning that his phenomenology is seeking as “the meaning that the religious phenomena have for the believers themselves”.\n\n"}
{"id": "13165683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13165683", "title": "William Cleghorn", "text": "William Cleghorn\n\nWilliam Cleghorn (1718 – August 1754) was a British philosopher. He was born to a successful Scottish brewer, Hugh Cleghorn, and Jean Hamilton, and died in 1754, aged 36. William Cleghorn held the Chair of Pneumatics and Moral Philosophy at the University of Edinburgh from 1745 until his death in 1754. Four volumes of notes on Cleghorn's lectures on moral philosophy from 1746–47 are stored at the University of Edinburgh library.\n\nCleghorn is primarily remembered for being a rival of the more famous philosopher David Hume. In 1744 and 1745, Hume and Cleghorn were competing candidates for the position of Chair of Pneumatics and Moral Philosophy at the University of Edinburgh. Hume was arguably the better of the two candidates. He is clearly of greater historical importance. However, the town council appointed Cleghorn to the position on 5 June 1745. Hume was an atheist, and it is known that many of the ministers of Edinburgh opposed his appointment to the Chair's position, and petitioned the town council, describing Hume as amoral, an atheist, and a sceptic. It has been suggested that a clique of people who disliked Hume's personal beliefs arranged for Cleghorn to be given the Chair's position at the University. However, some historians believe that Cleghorn was appointed to the position, not because of rivalry based on personal beliefs, but rather because of rivalry between two competing schools of thought on moral philosophy.\n\nCleghorn was a friend, and probably also teacher, of Adam Ferguson. It is thought that one of the characters in Ferguson's philosophical work \"Dialogue on a Highland Jaunt\" is based on Cleghorn. It has also been claimed that Cleghorn recommended, shortly before his death, that Ferguson be given the Chair of Pneumatics and Moral Philosophy once he had died. Ferguson was not given the Chair at this time, although he was given it later.\n\n"}
{"id": "2946802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2946802", "title": "William Sweet", "text": "William Sweet\n\nWilliam Sweet is a Canadian philosopher, and a past president of the Canadian Philosophical Association.\n\nSweet studied political science, theology, and philosophy in Canada, France, and Germany. He completed a DEA in political science at the Sorbonne at the Université de Paris (with Luc Ferry), a PhD in philosophy at the University of Ottawa, and a D.Ph. at the Université Saint-Paul. He also studied at Carleton University, the University of Manitoba, the Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, and the Centre Sèvres, (Faculté de Théologie de la Compagnie de Jésus, Paris). He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society in 2014, and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada in 2017.\n\nSweet specializes in political philosophy (particularly on issues of human rights); the philosophy of religion (e.g., the influence of science and technology on religion and, broadly, epistemology of religion); the relation of culture and tradition to philosophical thinking (particularly, comparative Asian and Western philosophy); late 19th and early 20th century Anglo-American Philosophy (particularly, the origins of analytic philosophy and British Idealism); ethical theories and applied ethics (especially, cross-cultural ethics); and the philosophy of Jacques Maritain.\n\nSweet is Professor of Philosophy and Director of the Centre for Philosophy, Theology, and Cultural Traditions at St Francis Xavier University. He has been also a member of the Faculty of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies at the University of Ottawa, and serves as an adjunct professor in the graduate programmes of Saint Paul University and of the Collège dominicain de philosophie et de théologie in Ottawa, Canada. Sweet was Professor of Philosophy and Professor of Religious Studies at St Thomas University in Fredericton, New Brunswick, where he served as the Vice President (Academic) from 2007 to 2008. He has also been a Visiting Professor at the John Paul II Catholic University of Lublin, Poland, Soochow University, Taipei, Fu Jen University, Taipei, and the Dharmaram Vidya Kshetram and the University of Pune, in India.\n\nMuch of Sweet's work is in the history of modern philosophy, although he uses this as a resource and a vehicle to address contemporary issues in political philosophy, applied ethics, and the philosophy of religion. His early essays as well as his first book focused on the political philosophy of British idealist philosophers of the late 19th and early 20th century, but he has published a number of papers and translations on the personalist tradition in French philosophy, particularly that of Jacques Maritain. Recent research focuses on philosophical debates in the 20th century in South Africa and India, and the phenomenon of the migration of philosophical texts and traditions across cultures.\n\nThe focus of several of Sweet's articles and books in political philosophy is the theme of rights and obligations. Much of this has been historical – providing substantial and novel reassessments of British idealists such as Bernard Bosanquet but also of Maritain (who, Sweet argues, converge on a number of significant points). Sweet's view is that these traditions provide a basis for a liberal, but non-individualistic, political philosophy. He gives a brief account of a positive theory of idealist ethics in his Introductory essay to his edited volume on \"The Moral, Social, and Political Philosophy of the British Idealists\" (2009), and he defends a broadly Maritainian view of dignity and human rights in a number of recent essays.\n\nSweet's contributions to the philosophy of religion are developed over two single authored, one co-authored, and several edited books. Sweet was a student of D.Z. Phillips, and much of his work has been on the epistemology of religion and the nature of religious belief. Sweet argues that much of the debate in the Anglo-American traditions concerning the relation of faith and reason is based on assumptions concerning the meaning and truth of religious beliefs – assumptions which he traces to the early 17th century. Sweet argues that these accounts misrepresent or misunderstand what religious belief is, and that a more accurate account of religious belief (which requires recognizing both the descriptive and expressive character of religious beliefs), and a broadly coherentist theory of truth can be used to address a number of contemporary issues in the philosophy of religion, such as the relation of religion and science.\n\nSweet travels extensively, and regularly lectures or teaches in East Asia, India, and Western Europe. He has been a major contributor to the international programmes of the Council for Research in Values and Philosophy and of the \"World Union of Catholic Philosophical Associations\" and the \"Istituto Internazionale Jacques Maritain\" (of which he is \"Presidente d'onore\").\n\nHe is the editor of \"Philosophy, Culture, and Traditions\" and an Editor of \"Collingwood and British Idealism Studies.\" He has also been editor of \"Etudes maritainiennes/Maritain Studies\" (1994–2006) and \"Bradley Studies\" (2005).\n\nHis work has been published in Castilian, Chinese, English, French, Gallego, German, Italian, Persian, Polish, and Vietnamese.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6844954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6844954", "title": "William of Auvergne", "text": "William of Auvergne\n\nWilliam of Auvergne (1180/90–1249) was a French theologian and philosopher who served as Bishop of Paris from 1228 until his death. He was one of the first western European philosophers to engage with and comment extensively upon Aristotelian and Islamic philosophy.\n\nHe is also known as Guillaume d'Auvergne, Guilielmus Alvernus, or William of Paris.\n\nVery little is known of William's early life. He was born in Aurillac and the likely date range for his birth is reckoned from the fact that a professor of Theology normally needed to be at least 35 years old. If that holds good, then William could have been born as early as 1180 or as late as 1190.\n\nHe went to Paris to study and earned a master's degree in Theology at the University of Paris. A Scholastic philosopher, he was made a professor first in the faculty of arts and then in 1220 in that of theology. His theology was systematically Aristotelian, although not uncritically so, and he was the first theologian to attempt to reconcile Aristotle with Christian doctrine, and especially with the teachings of Augustine of Hippo. The Aristotelian texts which were then available in Western Europe were few in number and mostly Arab translations. William sought to rescue Aristotle from the Arabians and worked to refute certain doctrines, such as the eternality of the world and the heresy of Catharism. His major work is the Magisterium Divinale, which has been translated as \"Teaching on God in the Mode of Wisdom\"\n\nBy 1223, William was a canon at the Notre Dame cathedral. Upon the death of the bishop of Paris, Bartholomaeus (20 Oct 1227), the canons elected Nicolas as the next bishop. William was dissatisfied with this outcome and went to Rome to ask the Pope to intervene. Whilst in Rome he made such a strong impression on Pope Gregory IX that the pope chose William in 1228 to be the next bishop of Paris.\n\nAs bishop of Paris William was a strong supporter of the university although his episcopacy was not without controversy in the eyes of the university. Following a heavy-handed use of royal force, which led to several students being killed in Paris, university staff turned to William expecting him to defend them. His failure to do so led to a university strike with many prominent masters and students leaving to go to other cities where they then founded new schools and universities. With the academic staff on strike William decided to appoint Roland of Cremona OP to a master's chair in theology, thus beginning a long and distinguished tradition in which Dominican and Franciscan masters taught at the university.\n\nWhilst William was a strong advocate for the use of reason and academic study in theology, he also maintained that academic theology was at the service of the church and must conform to doctrinal requirements. As a result of this in January 1241 he published a list of 10 theological propositions which he condemned and ordered should not be taught at the university.\n\nDuring his episcopate he also took action against prostitution in the city. In 1248, he served on the Regency council during Louis IX's absence on the Seventh Crusade.\n\n\n\n"}
