{"id": "7373456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7373456", "title": "Adam Joseph Lewis Center for Environmental Studies", "text": "Adam Joseph Lewis Center for Environmental Studies\n\nThe Adam Joseph Lewis Center for Environmental Studies, located on the campus of Oberlin College, is one of the most advanced examples of Green building in the United States. Construction crews completed work on the building in January 2000. The following semester, classes in conservation biology, environment and society, sustainable agriculture, ecological design, environmental education, physical geology, and solar energy were held in the center. It would have qualified as a LEED Platinum building had it not been built before the LEED system was established. John T. Lyle who was the lead designer for the Lyle Center for Regenerative Studies was also the landscape architect for the project, the main plaza is named in his honor. The project's lead architect was William McDonough + Partners, an architectural firm in Charlottesville, Virginia.\n\nThe building has received many awards, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "1031999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1031999", "title": "Breach of promise", "text": "Breach of promise\n\nBreach of promise is a common law tort, abolished in many jurisdictions. It was also called breach of contract to marry, and the remedy awarded was known as heart balm.\n\nFrom at least the Middle Ages until the early 20th century, a man's promise of engagement to marry a woman was considered, in many jurisdictions, a legally binding contract. If the man were to subsequently change his mind, he would be said to be in \"breach\" of this promise and subject to litigation for damages.\n\nThe converse of this was seldom true; the concept that \"it's a woman's prerogative to change her mind\" had at least some basis in law (though a woman might pay a high social price for exercising this privilege, as explained below)—and unless an actual dowry of money or property had changed hands or the woman could be shown to have become engaged to a man only to be able to use large amounts of his money, a man was only rarely able to recover in a \"breach of promise\" suit against a woman, were he even allowed to file one.\n\nChanging social attitudes toward morals have led to the decline of this sort of action. Most jurisdictions, at least in the English-speaking, common law world, have become increasingly reluctant to intervene in cases of personal relationships not involving the welfare of children or actual violence. Many have repealed all laws regarding such eventualities; whereas in others the statute allowing such an action may technically remain on the books but the action has become very rare and unlikely to be pursued with any probability of success. What is arising in its stead are judicial opinions and/or statutes permitting a breach of contract action for wedding expenses incurred when the nuptials are called off, or for loss of employment, moving and living expenses incurred by one party as a result of an engagement which is later broken.\n\nA breach of promise suit required a legally valid marriage engagement. Under Nevada law, this need not be in writing (as a prenuptial agreement is required to be), but may have been made verbally by both parties. All that is required is that each have promised the other to marry the other at some future time (no date certain is required). Generally, promises made by—but not to—people who had not reached the age of majority could be broken at any time, without penalty, as could the promise made by a married person (e.g., conditional upon the death of the current spouse), so long as the other party knew that the person was married at the time. Similarly, an engagement between people who were not legally permitted to marry (e.g., because of consanguinity laws) was invalid.\n\nValid engagements could be broken without penalty by either party upon discovery of significant and material facts, such as previously unknown financial state (if completely concealed, rather than partially revealed: the Shell case in Georgia in 2008 permitted a jury award to the woman of $150,000 although the man breaking the engagement stated that he did so after paying $30,000 of her debts when he discovered she still owed more), bad character, fraud, too-close blood relations, or the absolute physical or mental incapacity of the betrothed. In South Africa, engagements could be dissolved by mutual agreement. Impotence, sterility, criminality, and alcoholism also formed valid reasons to end an engagement. Additionally, the person refusing to marry was unable to sue for breach of promise.\n\nSome of the original theory behind this tort was based on the idea that a woman would be more likely to give up her virginity to a man if she had his promise to marry her. If he seduced her and subsequently refused marriage, her lack of virginity would make her future search for a suitable husband more difficult or even impossible.\n\nHowever, in the 18th and 19th centuries, the main factors were compensation for the denial of the woman's expectations of becoming \"established\" in a household (supported by her husband's wealth) and possible damage to her social reputation, since there were a number of ways that the reputation of a young never-married woman of the genteel classes could be damaged by a broken engagement, or an apparent period of intimacy which did not end in a publicly announced engagement, even if few people seriously thought that she had lost her virginity. She might be viewed as having broken the code of maidenly modesty of the period by imprudently offering up her affections without having had a firm assurance of future marriage.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, social standards changed so that a woman who had pre-marital sex was no longer considered to be \"ruined\". During that time, half of American women lost their virginity during their marriage engagements. Compensation was based on emotional distress and the woman's reduced opportunity for a future marriage. Damages were greatly increased if the couple had engaged in pre-marital sexual intercourse.\n\nIn 1915, Louis A. Merrilat, an American football end and military officer active in the early 20th century, was sued by Helen Van Ness for breach of promise after breaking off an engagement. Merrilat hired the noted Chicago attorney Clarence Darrow to defend him against the charges, which were eventually dismissed.\n\nIn England until 1970 a woman whose fiancé broke off their engagement could sue him for Breach of Promise, whilst a woman, historically regarded as the weaker sex, was permitted to change her mind without penalty. The last prominent case was in 1969, when Eva Haraldsted sued George Best, a prominent footballer, for Breach of Promise. England and Wales undertook legal reforms in 1970 that generally made property disputes related to engagements to be handled like property disputes between married couples.\n\nIn Hong Kong, similar to the situation in England, engagements to marry are not enforceable at law by legislation, damages for distress caused and reliance on the breach of promise are claimable, if the plaintiff suffers sufficiently serious consequences in light of the specific circumstances, for instance in \"Cheung Suk Man v So Shek Keung\" [1965] HKLR 485.\n\nIn Canada, the common law action has been abolished in some provinces by legislation. For example, in Saskatchewan, the action for breach of promise was formally abolished by legislation in 2010.\n\nIn the United States, most states repealed breach-of-promise laws or limited them, beginning in 1935. Partly as a result, expensive diamond engagement rings, previously uncommon, began to become commonplace, and formed a sort of financial security for the woman.\n\nSouth Carolina is one of the states that still recognizes a breach of promise action: \"Campbell v Robinson\", 398 S.C. 12, 726 S.E. 2d 221 (Ct. App. 2012). However about one-half of U.S. states still permit such lawsuits, according to the National Paralegal College. Recent examples of suits include the jury award of $150,000 in the 2008 Shell case in Georgia, and $130,000 in the North Carolina jury trial December 17, 2010 in the case of Dellinger v. Barnes (No. 08 CVS 1006). Laws vary by state. In Illinois, for example, documented wedding expenses can be recovered, but damages for emotional distress are prohibited, and notice of an intent to sue must be provided within three months of the engagement being dissolved.\n\nFrance nominally did not permit breach of promise actions, holding that marriage must involve free consent from both parties, and if the engagement is legally binding, then free consent is not possible. However, any party may sue for losses as a result of improper behavior by an engaged person.\n\nIn Scots law before 1812, damages were limited only to actual financial losses.\n\nAfter World War II, German, Spanish, and Italian law allowed for the recovery of actual damages incurred as a result of a failed engagement.\n\nDamages were generally permitted for expenses incurred on the expectation of a marriage, such as property transferred or wedding expenses. In some jurisdictions, emotional distress, loss of social standing, and loss of virginity were also possible sources of damages.\n\nSome countries also allowed the woman to sue for loss of future income, that is, for money that she would have had, if her very wealthy fiancé had not broken off the engagement. In 20th-century reforms, this was generally abolished over fears of gold digging.\n\nOne challenge in settling disputes for breach of promise was determining whether a gift made during the engagement was an absolute gift—one given permanently, with no strings attached—or a conditional gift, given in the expectation of the marriage taking place. If an engagement gift was given on a holiday, such as Valentine's Day or Christmas, the gift could be considered to be non-contingent, and given partially for reasons other than marriage, and thus does not have to be returned. Christmas presents are generally taken to be absolute gifts, and thus cannot be recovered if the engagement dissolves, but engagement rings are generally taken to be conditional gifts, at least under most circumstances, which means that they must be returned if the recipient no longer chooses to go through with the marriage. Whether an engagement ring must be returned if the giver breaks off the engagement varies.\n\nCriminal conversation or \"seduction\" was a similar tort, arising from adultery, in which a married person could sue the person with whom his or her spouse had engaged in adultery. Alienation of affections was another similar tort against a third party who encouraged the adultery, or who was otherwise responsible for the breakdown of the marriage.\n\nThe social damage from receiving attention from a man is discussed in a passage from the 1801 novel \"Belinda\" by Maria Edgeworth, where an older woman is urging Miss Belinda Portman to give a suitor more time to attach her affections, though Belinda is worried that even by just passively accepting his attentions for a certain time, she might find herself \"entangled, so as not to be able to retract\", even \"if it should not be in my power to love him at last\":\n\nBreach-of-promise actions were part of the standard stock-in-trade of comic writers of the 19th century (such as Charles Dickens in his \"Pickwick Papers\", or Gilbert and Sullivan in \"Trial by Jury\"), but most middle- and upper-class families were reluctant to use them except in rather extreme circumstances (such as when a daughter became pregnant by a man who then refused to marry her), since they led to wide publicity being given to a scrutiny of intimate personal concerns, something which was strongly repugnant to the family feeling of the period (especially where young women were concerned).\n\n\"Trial by Jury\" is an 1875 curtain-raiser and comic opera that enacts a satirical trial for breach of promise. The successful musical is credited with launching the careers of librettist W.S. Gilbert and composer Arthur Sullivan.\n\n\"The Scales of Justice - A Woman's Privilege\" recounts the unusual case of a man who sues a woman for breach of promise following a cruise ship romance engagement.\n\nIn the mockumentary film \"A Hard Day's Night\", the character playing Paul McCartney's grandfather is pursued by young women who wish to sue the older man for breach of promise.\n\nIn season 8 of the TV show \"Frasier\", Donny files a suit against Daphne for running away with Niles on the day of their wedding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33472867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33472867", "title": "Bridge bank", "text": "Bridge bank\n\nA bridge bank is an institution created by a national regulator or central bank to operate a failed bank until a buyer can be found for its operations.\n\nWhile national laws vary, the bridge bank is usually established by a publicly backed deposit insurance organisation or financial regulator and may be instituted to avoid systemic risk and provide an orderly transition avoiding negative effects such as bank runs.\n\nTypically, the tasks of a bridge bank are to ensure seamless continuity of banking operations by:\n\nThese tasks are carried out on a temporary basis (usually for no more than two or three years) to provide time to find a buyer for the bank as a going concern. If the bank cannot be sold as a going concern, its portfolio of assets are liquidated in an orderly fashion. Should the bridge bank fail to wind down its operations within the allotted time, the national deposit insurance corporation is appointed as the receiver of the bridge bank's assets.\n\nIn Nigeria the (Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) administer the deposits and liabilities of a failed bank. Under the arrangement, the NDIC is authorized to operate a failed bank for a period until a buyer can be found for its operations.\n\nWhen in the opinion of CBN, a NDIC-insured bank is in financial trouble, the CBN and NDIC may establish a bridge bank to;\n\n\nBridge banks are authorized to seek to liquidate failed banks, either by finding buyers for the bank as a going concern, or by liquidating its portfolio of assets, within two years, which can be extended by an additional year. Should the bridge bank fail to wind down its operations within the allotted time, the bridge bank must notify the Governor of the CBN of its intent to dissolve the bridge bank. Under this situation, the NDIC is appointed as the receiver of the bridge bank's assets.\n\nOn August 5, 2011, Central Bank of Nigeria revoked the operating licenses of three banks including; Afribank, Spring Bank, and Bank PHB, which according to it, did not show enough capacity and ability for recapitalization.\n\nIn their place, the CBN through the NDIC established Bridge Banks and transferred the assets and liabilities of the three affected banks to the Bridge Banks as follows;\n\n\nUnder the arrangement, MainStreet Bank Limited took over the assets and liabilities of Afribank; Keystone Bank Limited assumed the assets and liabilities of Bank PHB, while Enterprise Bank Limited took over that of Spring Bank.\n\nThe Asset Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON) immediately acquired from the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), the three Bridge Banks. Accordingly, AMCON injected N679 billion into the Bridge Banks to meet the minimum capital base of N25 billion and the minimum capital adequacy ratio of 15 per cent.\n\nIn the United States law of banking regulation, a bridge bank is organized by federal bank regulators to administer the deposits and liabilities of a failed bank.Under the \"Competitive Equality Banking Act\" (CEBA) of 1987, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) is authorized to operate a failed bank for a period of up to three years, until a buyer can be found for its operations.\n\nUnder CEBA, when a FDIC-insured bank is in financial trouble, the FDIC \"may establish a bridge bank to —\n\nBridge banks must be chartered as national banks in accordance with US banking law. To the extent possible, bridge banks are required to honor the commitments of the failed bank to its customers, and not to interrupt or terminate adequately secured loans. Bridge banks are authorized to seek to liquidate failed banks, either by finding buyers for the bank as a going concern, or by liquidating its portfolio of assets, within two years, which can be extended for cause by an additional year. Should the bridge bank fail to wind down its operations within the allotted time, the bridge bank must notify the Comptroller of the Currency of its intent to dissolve the bridge bank. Under this situation, the FDIC is appointed as the receiver of the bridge bank's assets.\n\n"}
{"id": "54009933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54009933", "title": "Chambre de l'assurance de dommages (Québec)", "text": "Chambre de l'assurance de dommages (Québec)\n\nThe Chambre de l'assurance de dommages (Damage Insurance Chamber) (ChAD) in Quebec (Canada) was created under section 284 of the \"Act respecting the distribution of financial products and services\" (RSQ, (C) D-9.2) at the same time of the creation of the Chambre de la sécurité financière (Québec) (Chamber of Financial Security). Legal entity, its mission is to ensure the protection of the public in matters of damage insurance.<ref name = Article|language=fr-CA|author1=Isabelle Houde|title=\"Le pour et le contre de l'assurance titres\" (Pros and cons of the title insurance periodical) = Le Soleil|Date = June 12, 2015|issn =|read online=http://www.lapresse.ca/le-soleil/maison/habitation/201506/07/01-4876081-\n\n</li></li></li>\"The distribution of financial products and services\", RLRQ c D-9.2, s. 289, http://www.canlii.org/en/qc/legis/lois/rlrq-c-d-9.2/107022/rlrq-c-d-9.2.html#art289, accessed 19 October 2016</ref> The ChAD oversees the compulsory professional development and the ethical conduct of over 15,000 damage insurance agents and brokers, as well as claims adjusters; and provides preventive oversight and enforces discipline on individuals working in these fields. \n\nMembers of the \"Chambre de l'assurance de dommages\" (Damage Insurance Chamber) are:\n\nThe \"Chambre de l'assurance de dommages\" ensures the compulsory continuing education and professional ethics of its members.\n\nProfessionals in property and casualty insurance are certified by the Autorité des marchés financiers (Québec) (Authority of the financial markets) and supervised by the \"Chambre d'assurance de dommages\". For example, agents, brokers and claims adjusters:\n\nAt the ethical and regulatory level, members of the Damage Insurance Chamber must comply with the following laws and regulations:\n\nA professional who does not respect his obligations may be brought before the Discipline Committee of the \"Chambre de l'assurance de dommages\" and receive a penalty which may range from reprimand to temporary or permanent cancellation, in accordance with the section 156 of the Professional Code.\n\nThe Discipline Committee shall hear any complaint made by the trustee against a professional. Complaints may come from a consumer or from any member of the \"Chambre de l'assurance de dommages\". Thus, a consumer who feels wronged or a representative who is a witness to non-ethical practices may apply directly to the \"Chambre de l'assurance de dommages\" or the Information Center of the Autorité des marchés financiers (Québec).\n\nIn 2002, the Coalition for the Promotion of the Damage Insurance Professions (Coalition) was set up on the initiative of the \"Chambre de la sécurité financière\". The entire insurance industry then mobilized by associating itself with this cause, its program and its activities. The mission of this coalition is to attract more candidates to career opportunities in property and casualty insurance and to enhance the image of the professionals who work there.\n\nThe Coalition's Board of Directors consists of 13 executive directors from various organizations or categories of members. Maya Raic, President and CEO of the \"Damage Insurance Chamber\", is a member of the Board of Directors.\n\n\nIn 1999, the \"Chambre de l'assurance de dommages\" (ChAD) launched the Marcel-Tassé Prize with the objective of encouraging and honoring individuals of the next generation in damage insurance.\n\nThe Marcel-Tassé Prize consists of two parts:\n• \"general\": addressing the next generation of a college or university program not specializing in damage insurance;\n• \"specialized in property and casualty insurance\": intended for graduates of the DEC (collegial studies diploma) in insurance and financial services or an AEC (attestation of collegial studies) in property and casualty insurance.\n\nFor the insurance industry, the Marcel-Tassé Awards are an exceptional recognition and a remarkable distinction. The Marcel-Tassé Awards are each awarded with a $2,000 grant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20115049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20115049", "title": "Chancery Regulation Act 1862", "text": "Chancery Regulation Act 1862\n\nThe Chancery Regulation Act 1862 (25 & 26 Vict., c. 42), also known as Rolt's Act was an Act of the United Kingdom Parliament that was an important step in the fusion of law and equity.\n\nFrom the 13th century in England and Wales, equity developed as a system of justice in parallel with and complementary to the common law. By the 19th century, with the rise of capitalism in Victorian Britain, equity had become very important. The remedies available to the common law were limited to damages and those disputes demanding an injunction or specific performance of a contract needed to be heard in equity which was administered in Courts of Chancery, separate from the common law courts. Moreover, procedure in equity was better able to handle complex disputes involving the relationship between several parties such as partnerships and trusts.\n\nHowever, the dual jurisdiction of law and equity caused problems for litigants. In equity, all parties had to be represented at all hearings and if one died or married complex procedures were needed to maintain the action. The rate of progress of the action was in the hands of the parties and would tend to be determined by the slowest. Many uncontroversial administrative actions, such as appointing a new trustee, were dealt with as though they were contentious, adding further delay. There were many inefficiencies in procedure with high costs and a certain amount of corruption. Further, cases that involved questions of both law and equity would be hampered, shuttling between the courts of Chancery and common law courts for years, as in \"Wood v. Scarth\".\n\nThe Chancery commission (1824–26) made recommendations on streamlining procedure but the commissioners concluded that the Chancery courts themselves had the powers to improve matters. Over the following decades there was much debate leading to legislation including the Improvement of the Jurisdiction of Equity Act 1852 which allowed Chancery judges to decide questions of fact rather than remitting them to the common law courts. However, by 1862, Chancery judges were still reluctant to make use of these powers so Attorney General Sir John Rolt introduced a bill to make determination of facts by Chancery judges mandatory.\n\nIn the end, the Act was weakened from its initial intentions, allowing matters of fact to be decided by the assizes.\n\nThe Act applied to the High Court of Chancery of England and Wales and also to the Court of Chancery of the County Palatine of Lancaster which had an independent jurisdiction in equity. A further Act brought a similar reform to Ireland.\n\nThe fusion of law and equity was finally effected in the 1870s by the Judicature Acts.\n\n----\n"}
{"id": "2989243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2989243", "title": "Commingling", "text": "Commingling\n\nIn law, commingling is a breach of trust in which a fiduciary mixes funds held in care for a client with their own funds, making it difficult to determine which funds belong to the fiduciary and which belong to the client. This raises particular concerns where the funds are invested, and gains or losses from the investments must be allocated. In such circumstances, the law usually presumes that any gains run to the client and any losses run to the fiduciary who is guilty of commingling. As one source puts it, \"[i]n a pejorative sense, commingling is the special vice of fiduciaries (trustee, agents, lawyers, etc.) in failing to keep a beneficiary's money separate from the fiduciary's own money\".\n\nCommingling is particularly an issue in case of bankruptcy of the fiduciary. Funds held in care are not the fiduciary's property, and the client is not a creditor. So in case of bankruptcy, if the funds have been properly kept separate, they can easily be returned to the client. If, however, the funds have been commingled, the client is potentially subject to becoming entangled in the bankruptcy proceedings, and there may not be sufficient funds to pay the client back.\n\nFor example, a tenant who deposits money with a landlord has not lent money to the landlord – the tenant is not a creditor – and is entitled to their deposit back even in case that the landlord declares bankruptcy, assuming property is in good condition – the tenant is responsible for the \"property,\" but is not undertaking credit risk.\n\nSimilarly, a client who invests with a fund or broker is investing, not lending, so the fiduciary must keep the client money separate and not use it for their own purposes, but only for approved investment purposes: the client is subject to \"investment\" risk on their money, but not credit risk regarding the fiduciary.\n\nThe problem of commingling is of particular concern in the legal profession. Attorneys are strictly prohibited from commingling their clients' funds with their own, and such activity is grounds for disbarment in virtually every jurisdiction, because of the ease of embezzlement and the difficulty of detection. Similar rules apply for licensed real estate brokers handling earnest money and other professionals who hold deposits as agents for clients \"in absentia\".\n\nCommingling is also evidence that may be used in \"piercing the corporate veil\" of a sham corporation, where a person shields himself from personal liability through \"incorporation\", yet fails to observe strict separation of corporate and personal property or accounts, among other improprieties.\n\nFor small business, strict separation of corporate and personal property is a particular issue, notably in tax and divorce law.\n\nIn community property states of the United States, \"commingling\" non-marital property with marital property can make it community property. For example, depositing money received by an individual through inheritance – ordinarily considered non-marital, individual property – into a joint bank account may transform the money into community property. Most community property states apply a presumption of community property; where there is any commingling the burden of proof is on the party disputing the classification to \"trace\" the property back to individual property, and demonstrate an intent to keep it separated.\n\n"}
{"id": "7851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7851", "title": "Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty", "text": "Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty\n\nThe Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) is a multilateral treaty that bans all nuclear explosions, for both civilian and military purposes, in all environments. It was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 September 1996, but has not entered into force, as eight specific states have not ratified the treaty.\n\nThe movement for international control of nuclear weapons began in 1945, with a call from Canada and United Kingdom for a conference on the subject. In June 1946, Bernard Baruch, an emissary of President Harry S. Truman, proposed the Baruch Plan before the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission, which called for an international system of controls on the production of atomic energy. The plan, which would serve as the basis for United States nuclear policy into the 1950s, was rejected by the Soviet Union as a US ploy to cement its nuclear dominance.\n\nBetween the Trinity nuclear test of 16 July 1945 and the signing of the Partial Test Ban Treaty (PTBT) on 5 August 1963, 499 nuclear tests were conducted. Much of the impetus for the PTBT, the precursor to the CTBT, was rising public concern surrounding the size and resulting nuclear fallout from underwater and atmospheric nuclear tests, particularly tests of powerful thermonuclear weapons (hydrogen bombs). The Castle Bravo test of 1 March 1954, in particular, attracted significant attention as the detonation resulted in fallout that spread over inhabited areas and sickened a group of Japanese fishermen. Between 1945 and 1963, the US conducted 215 atmospheric tests, the Soviet Union conducted 219, the UK conducted 21, and France conducted three.\n\nIn 1954, following the Castle Bravo test, Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru of India issued the first appeal for a \"standstill agreement\" on testing, which was soon echoed by the British Labour Party. Negotiations on a comprehensive test ban, primarily involved the US, UK, and Soviet Union, began in 1955 following a proposal by Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev. Of primary concern throughout the negotiations, which would stretch with some interruptions to July 1963, was the system of verifying compliance with the test ban and detecting illicit tests. On the Western side, there were concerns that the Soviet Union would be able to circumvent any test ban and secretly leap ahead in the nuclear arms race. These fears were amplified following the US \"Rainier\" shot of 19 September 1957, which was the first contained underground test of a nuclear weapon. Though the US held a significant advantage in underground testing capabilities, there was worry that the Soviet Union would be able to covertly conduct underground tests during a test ban, as underground detonations were more difficult to detect than above-ground tests. On the Soviet side, conversely, the on-site compliance inspections demanded by the US and UK were seen as amounting to espionage. Disagreement over verification would lead to the Anglo-American and Soviet negotiators abandoning a comprehensive test ban (i.e., a ban on all tests, including those underground) in favor of a partial ban, which would be finalized on 25 July 1963. The PTBT, joined by 123 states following the original three parties, banned detonations for military and civilian purposes underwater, in the atmosphere, and in outer space.\n\nThe PTBT had mixed results. On the one hand, enactment of the treaty was followed by a substantial drop in the atmospheric concentration of radioactive particles. On the other hand, nuclear proliferation was not halted entirely (though it may have been slowed) and nuclear testing continued at a rapid clip. Compared to the 499 tests from 1945 to the signing of the PTBT, 436 tests were conducted over the ten years following the PTBT. Furthermore, US and Soviet underground testing continued \"venting\" radioactive gas into the atmosphere. Additionally, though underground testing was generally safer than above-ground testing, underground tests continued to risk the leaking of radionuclides, including plutonium, into the ground. From 1964 through 1996, the year of the CTBT's adoption, an estimated 1,377 underground nuclear tests were conducted. The final non-underground (atmospheric or underwater) test was conducted by China in 1980.\n\nThe PTBT has been seen as a step towards the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty (NPT) of 1968, which directly made reference to the PTBT. Under the NPT, non-nuclear weapon states were prohibited from possessing, manufacturing, and acquiring nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices. All signatories, including nuclear weapon states, were committed to the goal of total nuclear disarmament. However, India, Pakistan, and Israel have declined to sign the NPT on grounds that such a treaty is fundamentally discriminatory as it places limitations on states that do not have nuclear weapons while making no efforts to curb weapons development by declared nuclear weapons states.\n\nIn 1974, a step towards a comprehensive test ban was made with the Threshold Test Ban Treaty (TTBT), ratified by the US and Soviet Union, which banned underground tests with yields above 150 kilotons. In April 1976, the two states reached agreement on the Peaceful Nuclear Explosions Treaty (PNET), which concerns nuclear detonations outside the weapons sites discussed in the TTBT. As in the TTBT, the US and Soviet Union agreed to bar peaceful nuclear explosions (PNEs) at these other locations with yields above 150 kilotons, as well as group explosions with total yields in excess of 1,500 kilotons. To verify compliance, the PNET requires that states rely on national technical means of verification, share information on explosions, and grant on-site access to counterparties. The TTBT and PNET did not enter into force for the US and Soviet Union until 11 December 1990.\n\nIn October 1977, the US, UK, and Soviet Union returned to negotiations over a test ban. These three nuclear powers made notable progress in the late 1970s, agreeing to terms on a ban on all testing, including a temporary prohibition on PNEs, but continued disagreements over the compliance mechanisms led to an end to negotiations ahead of Ronald Reagan's inauguration as President in 1981. In 1985, Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev announced a unilateral testing moratorium, and in December 1986, Reagan reaffirmed US commitment to pursue the long-term goal of a comprehensive test ban. In November 1987, negotiations on a test ban restarted, followed by a joint US-Soviet program to research underground-test detection in December 1987.\n\nGiven the political situation prevailing in the subsequent decades, little progress was made in nuclear disarmament until the end of the Cold War in 1991. Parties to the PTBT held an amendment conference that year to discuss a proposal to convert the Treaty into an instrument banning all nuclear-weapon tests. With strong support from the UN General Assembly, negotiations for a comprehensive test-ban treaty began in 1993.\n\nExtensive efforts were made over the next three years to draft the Treaty text and its two annexes. However, the Conference on Disarmament, in which negotiations were being held, did not succeed in reaching consensus on the adoption of the text. Under the direction of Prime Minister John Howard and Foreign Minister Alexander Downer, Australia then sent the text to the United Nations General Assembly in New York, where it was submitted as a draft resolution. On 10 September 1996, the Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) was adopted by a large majority, exceeding two-thirds of the General Assembly's Membership.\n\n(Article I):\n\nThe Treaty was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 September 1996. It opened for signature in New York on 24 September 1996, when it was signed by 71 States, including five of the eight then nuclear-capable states. As of September 2018, 167 states have ratified the CTBT and another 17 states have signed but not ratified it.\n\nThe treaty will enter into force 180 days after the 44 states listed in Annex 2 of the treaty have ratified it. These \"Annex 2 states\" are states that participated in the CTBT's negotiations between 1994 and 1996 and possessed nuclear power reactors or research reactors at that time. As of 2016, eight Annex 2 states have not ratified the treaty: China, Egypt, Iran, Israel and the United States have signed but not ratified the Treaty; India, North Korea and Pakistan have not signed it.\n\nGeophysical and other technologies are used to monitor for compliance with the Treaty: forensic seismology, hydroacoustics, infrasound, and radionuclide monitoring. The technologies are used to monitor the underground, the waters and the atmosphere for any sign of a nuclear explosion. Statistical theories and methods are integral to CTBT monitoring providing confidence in verification analysis. Once the Treaty enters into force, on-site inspection will be provided for where concerns about compliance arise.\n\nThe Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO), an international organization headquartered in Vienna, Austria, was created to build the verification regime, including establishment and provisional operation of the network of monitoring stations, the creation of an international data centre, and development of the On Site Inspection capability.\n\nThe monitoring network consists of 337 facilities located all over the globe. As of May 2012, more than 260 facilities have been certified. The monitoring stations register data that is transmitted to the international data centre in Vienna for processing and analysis. The data are sent to states that have signed the Treaty.\n\nThree countries have tested nuclear weapons since the CTBT opened for signature in 1996. India and Pakistan both carried out two sets of tests in 1998. North Korea carried out six announced tests, one each in 2006, 2009, 2013, two in 2016 and one in 2017. All six North Korean tests were picked up by the International Monitoring System set up by the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization Preparatory Commission. A North Korean test is believed to have taken place in January 2016, evidenced by an \"artificial earthquake\" measured as a magnitude 5.1 by the U.S. Geological Survey. The first successful North Korean hydrogen bomb test supposedly took place September 2017. It was estimated to have an explosive yield of 120 kilotons .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2095029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095029", "title": "Conscious parallelism", "text": "Conscious parallelism\n\nConscious parallelism is a term used in competition law to describe pricing strategies among competitors in an oligopoly that occurs without an actual agreement between the players. Instead, one competitor will take the lead in raising or lowering prices. The others will then follow suit, raising or lowering their prices by the same amount, with the understanding that greater profits result.\n\nThis practice can be harmful to consumers who, if the market power of the firm is used, can be forced to pay monopoly prices for goods that should be selling for only a little more than the cost of production. Nevertheless, it is very hard to prosecute because it may occur without any collusion between the competitors. Courts have held that no violation of the antitrust laws occurs where firms independently raise or lower prices, but that a violation can be shown when \"plus factors\" occur, such as firms being motivated to collude and taking actions against their own economic interests.\n\nThe term has also been used to describe industry-wide assumption of terms other than price. For example, all competitors in an industry might make only long-term leases of products such as heavy machinery, leaving lessors with no opportunity to make a short-term lease of that product from any competitor.\n\n"}
{"id": "17911075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17911075", "title": "Development-supported agriculture", "text": "Development-supported agriculture\n\nDevelopment-supported agriculture \nis a nascent movement in real estate development that preserves and invests in agricultural land use. As farmland is lost due to the challenging economics of farming and the pressures of the real estate industry, DSA attempts to reconcile the need for development with the need to preserve agricultural land. The overall goal of DSA is to incubate small-scale organic farms that co-exist with residential land development, providing benefits to farmers, residents, the local community, and the environment.\n\nA related term, \"agricultural urbanism\", refers to agricultural operations located in proximity to and integrated with urban areas. The term of agricultural urbanism was coined by Mark Holland and Janine de la Salle, and is based on their book by the same name, published by Green Frigate Press in 2010 (De la Salle and Holland et al.). The term and concept of Agricultural Urbanism was originally developed in British Columbia in 2008 during a planning process for a development project called Southlands in South Delta, Metro Vancouver and was introduced to planner, real estate developer, and founder of the New Urbanism movement, Andres Duany, as part of the preparation for a design charrette which Duany and his team were involved in. \n\nTwo academics who authored a chapter (Patrick Condon from UBC and Kent Mulnix from Kwantlen Polytechnic) posited the original idea of using development to support agriculture by using mechanisms such as transferring density rights from agricultural land onto adjacent areas and preserving the agricultural land through covenants while harvesting the development land value in the adjacent area that received the transferred development rights. \n\nAndres Duany has been a significant proponent of the idea as well as the author of a similar stream of thought called Agrarain Urbanism. Duany’s adoption of the concept has given it a higher profile,\n\nThe term \"development-supported agriculture\" (DSA) was coined to describe the Harvest project. A variety of individuals collaborated on the project, including planner Duane Verner, developer Nathan Wieler, members of Piedmont Biofuels, participants in the Sustainable Agriculture program at Central Carolina Community College, and others. The group set out to determine the best usage for an existing farm that was being sold by the owner, a career farmer named Paul McCoy. It became clear that the group had an opportunity to create a unique residential community where farmers and residents have a symbiotic relationship. This relationship would benefit all involved, while also improving the general state of residential development and helping to reduce the ecological destruction associated with typical residential development models. Reynolds & Jewell Landscape Architecture was retained to design the master plan for the community, and the team grew to include experienced organic farmers, experts on native plants, and others. As of July 2008, the developer is actively implementing the master plan, and response to the concept has been overwhelmingly positive.\n\nDevelopment-supported agriculture has its roots in the community-supported agriculture (CSA) movement. However, whereas CSA typically focuses on establishing a direct business relationship between consumers and farmers, DSA builds on a barter approach first and foremost, while also ensuring that products from DSA farms are integrated into the local economy. On a more general level, DSA is a response to concerns about the urbanization of agricultural land and an attempt to preserve existing farms. Another goal of DSA is to establish a new generation of farmers by using the revenue from real estate development to establish small-scale organic farms that are protected in perpetuity by conservation easements and property covenants.\n\nDevelopment-supported agriculture is based on the concept of a master-planned residential development with farming as the central amenity. This model provides residents with the benefits of, and the opportunity to experience, small-scale organic farming. Property owners have the option of participating in the farming or leasing their land to a farmer; in either case, the farmland is protected from development. Homesites are restricted to certain areas and continuous areas of open space are maintained across multiple properties.\n\nIn the spirit of Le Corbusier's \"Five Points of a New Architecture,\" DSA focuses on five core principles:\n\n\nHarvest, North Carolina\n\nHarvest is a development introduced in 2008, sited in the New Hope River Valley in Chatham County, North Carolina. The development consists of 20 individual properties with an organic farm as the literal and metaphorical center of the community. A farmbelt easement protects farmland and preserves rural views.\n\nAccording to Paul McCoy, the previous owner of the land, the Harvest property had been used for farming since the American Revolution. During the middle of the 20th century, the primary use of the farm was for growing tobacco. In the late 20th century, the farm was used to grow a typical rotation of tobacco, corn, and soybeans. In 2008, the developer of Harvest began transitioning the farm from conventional operations to organic certification. The change from commercial (i.e. using pesticides) to organic farming will help protect the water quality of nearby Jordan Lake and the Haw River. \n\nSerenbe, Georgia\n\nAnother example of an urban-rural fringe project that fits into the DSA framework is Serenbe. This community is located on one of the last undeveloped parcels of land in the Atlanta area. The founders of Serenbe realized that their largely untouched presented a window of opportunity for creating a unique type of residential development. A organic farm is located at Serenbe that provides organic produce throughout Atlanta and The Chattahoochee Hill Country. The of Serenbe lie in the heart of protected with a master plan that calls for 80% green space. Building sites are limited to 220 structures, including live/work spaces and commercial buildings.\n\nMiddle Green Valley, Solano County, CA\n\nOne of the largest and most recent examples of development-supported agriculture is in Middle Green Valley in southwestern Solano County, California. \nThe City of Fairfield to the south, and unincorporated Solano County to the north, have continued to entitle subdivisions while Green Valley has remained largely undeveloped agricultural land and open space. Like many places at the edge of suburban boundaries, there has been a longstanding conflict between the open space desired by neighbors and development rights desired by landowners. The landowners in this part of Green Valley have been under pressure to preserve the rural culture, even as the basic economics of agriculture have eroded the financial viability of their lands. Usually, the only viable choice was to develop their property to realize economic benefit. Many of the landowners, some whose families have cultivated the land for over 150 years, wished to realize the development value while at the same time maintain the integrity of the open space, agricultural productivity and the farming legacy.\n\nIn 2010, at significant cost and with no guarantee of success, the Solano County Board of Supervisors – with meaningful participation from landowners AND neighborhood groups – approved a Specific Plan for Middle Green Valley. The final plan includes more than 1,400 acres of protected agricultural and open space and a small village of about 400 clustered homes that are shielded from the main views from Green Valley Road. Over 15 different land owners covering almost 200 acres signed the Master Development Agreement putting this plan into place. The entire Specific Plan can be obtained at: \n\nhttp://www.solanocounty.com/depts/rm/documents/eir/middle_green_valley_specific_plan.asp\n\nPreserving the rural beauty and cultural legacy of the Green Valley area is the guiding vision in crafting a long term, equitable, and sustainable development plan. The Specific Plan celebrates and perpetuates the tradition of the working landscapes that characterize this part of Solano County for over 150 years. A core component is the promotion of sustainable food and agriculture systems as a means to connect agricultural lands, the built and natural environments, community health and natural resource stewardship.\n\nThe Green Valley Agricultural Conservancy\n\nTo provide assurances for the long-term preservation and management of the open space, the Middle Green Valley Specific Plan envisioned the creation of a non-profit Conservancy (the GVAC) to oversee the ±1,490 acres of productive agricultural land, pastures, and natural areas. The Conservancy has three primary areas of responsibility:\n\n\nOne of the first tangible initiatives by the Conservancy to promote and support local farmers and artisans has been the creation of Totally Local - a new Certified Farmers' Market (CFM) - that was started in July 2011. The Green Valley Farmers' Market provides a community gathering place to share a cup of coffee, meet the local farmers, taste some great local food, and simply have some conversation with neighbors. The Conservancy’s goal is not to compete with, but rather compliment the already established food stands and local artisans in the region to help provide a stable platform for featuring LOCAL agricultural and artisan products. \n\nPrairie Crossing, Illinois \n\nBundoran Farm, Virginia \n\nSouth Village, Vermont \n\nFort Collins, Colorado \n\nHidden Springs, Idaho \n\nEast Lake Commons is a cohousing community planned by Village Habitat Design located from downtown Atlanta.\n\nSoutheast False Creek and Olympic Village is an sustainable development project near downtown Vancouver, British Columbia that includes an urban agriculture component.\n\nVertical farming, also known as skyfarming, is a conceptual form of agriculture done in urban high-rises. In these high-rises, food such as fruit, vegetables, fish, and livestock can be raised by using greenhouse growing methods and recycled resources year-round, allowing cities of the future to become self-sufficient. The concept of the vertical farm remains mostly hypothetical; however, many people believe that this type of development will become necessary as a result of increased urban density and rising energy costs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15329808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15329808", "title": "Door tenant", "text": "Door tenant\n\nA door tenant is a barrister who has been granted permission to join a set of chambers and work with them from premises outside the chambers themselves. Those members who work on the premises are simply 'tenants' while 'squatters' are those who make legitimate use of the premises without belonging to the set.\n"}
{"id": "148780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148780", "title": "Dáil Constitution", "text": "Dáil Constitution\n\nThe Constitution of Dáil Éireann (), more commonly known as the Dáil Constitution, was the constitution of the 1919–22 Irish Republic. It was adopted by the First Dáil at its first meeting on 21 January 1919 and remained in force for four years. As adopted it consisted of only five short articles. Article 1 declared that the Dáil had \"full powers to legislate\" and would consist of representatives elected in elections conducted by the British government. For the exercise of executive power it created a cabinet, answerable to the Dáil, called the Aireacht (or Ministry), headed by a prime minister called the \"Príomh Aire\" (in practice also known as the President of Dáil Éireann). The constitution made no reference to a judiciary but this did not prevent the Dáil from establishing a system of Dáil Courts. The final article of the constitution declared that it was intended to be a provisional document, in the sense that it was subject to amendment. As adopted the constitution came to only around 370 words. In comparison, the modern Constitution of Ireland has approximately 16,000 words. Overall, the structure of the document was roughly as follows:\n\n\nAs first adopted the Dáil Constitution made no provision for a head of state. Some deputies believed that the Dáil did not have authority to elect a President of the Republic and that there should be a direct election for the post. It was also the case that Sinn Féin had almost split between monarchists and republicans at its 1917 Ardfheis. However, in August 1921 the constitution was amended to state, vaguely, that the cabinet would be headed by \"the President who shall also be Prime Minister\". This allowed the then head of government, Éamon de Valera, to begin using the title \"President of the Republic\". However, after de Valera left office in 1922 leaders resumed the practice of using the lesser title \"President of Dáil Éireann\". The constitution provided that it could be amended in the same way it had been adopted, by a simple resolution of the Dáil. Changes were made to the document on two dates:\n\n\nThe constitution's close modelling of its institutional system on the Westminster system of government, specifically with the inclusion of a parliament from whom a ministry was both chosen and to whom it was answerable, has been noted by Irish political scientists and historians, notably Professor Brian Farrell, who suggested that the leaders of the new state stuck to a system that, through Irish participation in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, the new Irish political elite had close experience of, and identification with, notwithstanding their radical republican rhetoric.\n\nIn 1922 after the ratification of the Anglo-Irish Treaty, the institutions mentioned in the Dáil Constitution began to operate in parallel with a rival set of structures. In order to implement the Treaty the Parliament of the United Kingdom adopted the Irish Free State (Agreement) Act, 1922. This provided for an executive, called the Provisional Government, and a \"house of parliament\" to which it would be accountable. However, in practice the two systems of government were eventually merged. When the \"house of parliament\" was convened in 1922 it was treated by those in attendance as the Third Dáil, and its first act was to merge the Provisional Government and the Ministry of the Dáil into a single cabinet. The Dáil Constitution finally became defunct when the new Constitution of the Irish Free State came into force on 6 December 1922.\n\n"}
{"id": "1591958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1591958", "title": "Electronic ticket", "text": "Electronic ticket\n\nAn electronic ticket (commonly abbreviated as e-ticket) is the digital ticket equivalent of a paper ticket. The term is most commonly associated with airline issued tickets. Electronic ticketing for urban or rail public transport is usually referred to as travel card or transit pass. It is also used in ticketing in the entertainment industry.\n\nAn electronic ticket system is a more efficient method of ticket entry, processing and marketing for companies in the airline, railways and other transport and entertainment industries.\n\nE-tickets in the airline industry were devised in about 1994, and have now largely replaced the older multi-layered paper ticketing systems. Since 1 June 2008, it has been mandatory for IATA members to use e-ticketing. Where paper tickets are still available, some airlines charge a fee for issuing paper tickets.\n\nWhen a reservation is confirmed, the airline keeps a record of the booking in its computer reservations system. Customers can print out or may be provided with a copy of a e-ticket itinerary receipt which contains the record locator or reservation number and the e-ticket number. It is possible to print multiple copies of an e-ticket itinerary receipt.\n\nBesides providing itinerary details, an e-ticket itinerary receipt also contains:\n\nPassengers with e-tickets are required to check-in at the airport for a flight in the usual manner, except that they may be required to present an e-ticket itinerary receipt or personal identification, such as a passport, or credit card. Producing a print-out of an e-ticket itinerary receipt may be required to enter the terminal of some airports or to satisfy immigration regulations in some countries.\n\nThe introduction of e-tickets has allowed for various enhancements to checking-in processes.\n\n\nSeveral websites assist people holding e-tickets to check in online in advance of the twenty-four-hour airline restriction. These sites store a passenger's flight information and then when the airline opens up for online check-in the data is transferred to the airline and the boarding pass is emailed back to the customer. With this e-ticket technology, if a passenger receives his boarding pass remotely and is travelling without check-in luggage, he may bypass traditional counter check-in.\n\nThe ticketing systems of most airlines are only able to produce e-tickets for itineraries of no more than 16 segments, including surface segments. This is the same limit that applied to paper tickets.\n\nAnother critical limitation is that at the time e-tickets were initially designed, most airlines still practiced product bundling. By the time the industry began 100% e-ticket implementation, more and more airlines began to unbundle previously included services (like checked baggage) and add them back in as optional fees (ancillary revenue). However, the e-ticket standard did not anticipate and did not include a standardized mechanism for such optional fees.\n\nIATA later implemented the Electronic Miscellaneous Document (EMD) standard for such information. This way, airlines could consistently expose and capture such fees at time of booking through travel reservation systems, rather than having to surprise passengers with them at check-in.\n\nAs part of the IATA Simplifying the Business initiative, the association instituted a program to switch the industry to 100% electronic ticketing. The program concluded on June 1, 2008, with the association saying that the resulting industry savings were approximately US$3 billion.\n\nIn 2004, IATA Board of Governors set the end of 2007 as the deadline for airlines to make the transition to 100% electronic ticketing for tickets processed through the IATA billing and settlement plan; in June 2007, the deadline was extended to May 31, 2008.\n\nAs of June 1, 2008 paper tickets can no longer be issued on neutral stock by agencies reporting to their local BSP. Agents reporting to the ARC using company-provided stock or issuing tickets on behalf of an airline (GSAs and ticketing offices) are not subject to that restriction.\n\nThe industry was unable to comply with the IATA mandate and paper tickets remain in circulation as of February 2009.\n\nAmtrak started offering electronic tickets on all train routes on 30 July 2012. These tickets can be ordered over the internet and printed (as a PDF file), printed at a Quik-Trak kiosk, or at the ticket counter at the station. Electronic tickets can also be held in a smart phone and shown to the conductor using an app. Mobile tickets are common with operators of US commuter train networks (e.g. MTA LIRR and Metro North) but they are usually only offered on the US version of the App Store and only accept US-issued credit cards as the app's payment page asks the user for the credit card's ZIP code to complete the purchase. \n\nSeveral European train operators also offer self-printable or downloadable tickets. Often tickets can also be delivered by SMS or MMS. Railway operators in other countries also issue electronic tickets. The national operators of Denmark and Netherlands have a nationwide system where RFID smartcards are used as train tickets. In the UK, the issuance of printable or mobile tickets is at the discretion of train operators and is often available for advanced tickets only (i.e. valid only on a specific train). This is very common in Europe for local urban rail, such as rapid transit/metros. \n\nIn India, an SMS sent by the Indian Railways, along with a valid proof of identity is considered equivalent to a ticket.\n\nMany sport, concert venues, and cinemas use electronic ticketing for their events. Electronic tickets, or \"eTickets\" as they are sometimes referred, are often delivered as PDFs or another downloadable format that can be received via email or through a mobile app. Electronic tickets allow spectators to download their tickets, as opposed to waiting for physical tickets to arrive in the mail. A printed copy of these tickets or a digital copy on a mobile phone should be presented on coming to the venue. These tickets now normally also have a barcode, which may be scanned on entry into the venue to streamline crowd processing. Electronic tickets have become increasingly prevalent in the entertainment industry over the last decade. \n\nIn some cases, spectators who want to see a match may not need a printable electronic ticket. If someone with a membership to a football team books a ticket online, the member can just verify his/her reservation with a membership card at the entrance. This is common with teams in the English Premiership League.\n\nIn January 2017 it was reported that Germany's Federal Minister of Transport and Digital Infrastructure, Alexander Dobrindt wants to create an electronic ticket to connect public bus and train services as well as parking spaces and potentially car-sharing services across all cities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10480448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10480448", "title": "European Democratic Lawyers", "text": "European Democratic Lawyers\n\nEuropean Democratic Lawyers (EDL) (\"also Association of\", A.E.D) is an association of labor unions and lawyers of six European countries. It was founded in October 1987 as a confederation of lawyers' unions and gained its statutes adopted in Strasbourg, France on April 21, 1990 and was registered as an association at the Register of Associations of the Magistrates' Court of Colmar, France on July 4, 1990. The aim of the association is defending the rights of citizens by preserving the independence of lawyers with regard to any power, be it political, social, economic or ordinal. \n\nThe member organizations allied in this association are:\n\n\nThe EDL was present at the 33rd G8 summit in Germany in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "15307069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15307069", "title": "Extradition law in Australia", "text": "Extradition law in Australia\n\nExtradition law in Australia is the formal process by which a fugitive found outside a jurisdiction is surrendered to the jurisdiction where an alleged offence has taken place for trial or punishment, under Australian law. This may include a process done within the country or one between Australia and another country.\n\nThe power to extradite between and among the states and territories of Australia is conferred by s 51(xxiv) of the Australian Constitution which says that the Commonwealth Parliament shall, subject to the Constitution, have the power to make laws for the peace, order, and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to (inter alia):\nthe service and execution throughout the Commonwealth of the civil and criminal process and the judgments of the courts of the States.\n\nInterstate extradition procedures are governed by the \"Service and Execution of Process Act 1992\" (Cth), Part 5. Under the Act, a person named in an extradition warrant issued in any State may be arrested in accordance to that warrant in another State. Upon apprehension, that person must be brought before a Magistrate of the State in which they were apprehended along with the warrant or a copy of the warrant. The local jurisdiction has priority in respect of offences in that jurisdiction, so that a person charged or in prison in the jurisdiction must be processed and serve time before extradition to the other state.\n\nThe \"Extradition Act 1988\" governs the extradition to other countries of fugitives found in Australia. The law ratifies a series of treaties to which Australia is a party with other countries, either in the right of the Commonwealth of Australia, by being bound by treaties which the United Kingdom executed on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia, or multilateral treaties to which Australia is a signatory.\n\nThe absence of an extradition treaty does not, in theory, prevent the arrest or extradition to or from another country e.g. through the London Scheme for Commonwealth member states, or through regulation (eg., Cambodia).\n\nExtradition between Australia and New Zealand is governed by a separate and distinct regime, known as the 'backing of warrants' system.\n\nAccording to the Attorney-General, Australia has extradition arrangements with the following countries:\n\nCountry with which Australia is negotiating extradition treaties:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57152263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57152263", "title": "Fidelis Uzochukwu Okafor", "text": "Fidelis Uzochukwu Okafor\n\nProfessor Okafor is an academic and is the current substansive vice chancellor of Anambra State University located in Uli, a town in Nigeria. He was appointed by the governor of Anambra State.\n\nBorn in 1950 at Onitsha, Okafor had his G.C.E at All Hallows Seminary, Onitsha in 1972. He had his B.A at Urban University, Rome in 1976. He had his Masters (1980) and PhD(1982) in Urban University, and Gregorian University in Rome .\n\nHe worked as Lecturer II (1982–1984), Lecturer I (1984–1986), Senior Lecturer (1986–1997) before he rose to the post of a professor in 1997 at University of Nigeria.\nHe is the current Vice chancellor of Anambra State University although he has also served as provost in Nwafor Orizu College of Education, Nsugbe (2007–2010).\n\nHe has written books which Include \"Legal Positivism and the African Legal Tradition\" and \"Right and Law in Hobbes' Ethical and Political Theory\".\n\nHe won the Japan Foundation best report award in 1994.\n\nHe is a member of Nigeria Philosophical Assocciation, African Association of Ethnophilosophers, International Association of Orientalist.\n"}
{"id": "3850258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3850258", "title": "Free File Alliance", "text": "Free File Alliance\n\nThe Free File Alliance is a group of tax preparation companies that have partnered with the Internal Revenue Service to provide free electronic tax filing services to U.S tax payers meeting certain guidelines. The Free File Alliance claims that the program benefits American taxpayers by providing services that would cost the IRS money to provide if online tax filing were administered directly by the IRS. The IRS stipulates filers must have an adjusted gross income (AGI) of $62,000 or less for tax year 2015, $66,000 or less for tax year 2017, but participating companies have their own requirements and restrictions.\n\nFilers with state income tax returns may still pay additional fees of $10 to $30 to electronically file those returns.\n\nIn 2007, Alliance members agreed to remove controversial ancillary offerings such as refund anticipation loans (RAL) from the program.\n\nThe free services often limit their software's ability to handle complex tax situations. Some of the Free File Alliance tax sites and their limitations are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12987", "title": "Gerrymandering", "text": "Gerrymandering\n\nGerrymandering is a practice intended to establish a political advantage for a particular party or group by manipulating district boundaries. The resulting district is known as a gerrymander (); however, that word is also a verb for the process. The term \"gerrymandering\" has negative connotations. Two principal tactics are used in gerrymandering: \"cracking\" (i.e. diluting the voting power of the opposing party's supporters across many districts) and \"packing\" (concentrating the opposing party's voting power in one district to reduce their voting power in other districts). The third tactic, shown in the top-left diagram in the diagrams to the right, is that of homogenization of all districts.\n\nIn addition to its use achieving desired electoral results for a particular party, gerrymandering may be used to help or hinder a particular demographic, such as a political, ethnic, racial, linguistic, religious, or class group, such as in U.S. federal voting district boundaries that produce a majority of constituents representative of African-American or other racial minorities, known as \"majority-minority districts\". Gerrymandering can also be used to protect incumbents.\n\nGerrymandering should not be confused with malapportionment, whereby the number of eligible voters per elected representative can vary widely without relation to how the boundaries are drawn. Nevertheless, the \"-mander\" suffix has been applied to particular malapportionments. Sometimes political representatives use both gerrymandering and malapportionment to try to maintain power.\n\nThe word gerrymander (originally written Gerry-mander) was used for the first time in the Boston Gazette (not to be confused with the original \"Boston Gazette\") on 26 March 1812. The word was created in reaction to a redrawing of Massachusetts state senate election districts under Governor Elbridge Gerry. In 1812, Gerry signed a bill that redistricted Massachusetts to benefit his Democratic-Republican Party. When mapped, one of the contorted districts in the Boston area was said to resemble the shape of a mythological salamander.\n\nThe original gerrymander, and original 1812 gerrymander cartoon, depict the Essex South state senatorial district for the legislature of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts.\n\nGerrymander is a portmanteau of the governor's last name and the word \"salamander\".\n\nThe redistricting was a notable success for Gerry's Democratic-Republican Party. Although in the 1812 election both the Massachusetts House and governorship were won by Federalists by a comfortable margin and cost Gerry his job, the redistricted state senate remained firmly in Democratic-Republican hands.\n\nThe author of the term gerrymander may never be definitively established. Historians widely believe that the Federalist newspaper editors Nathan Hale, and Benjamin and John Russell coined the term, but the historical record does not have definitive evidence as to who created or uttered the word for the first time.\n\nAppearing with the term, and helping spread and sustain its popularity, was a political cartoon depicting a strange animal with claws, wings and a dragon-like head satirizing the map of the oddly shaped district. This cartoon was most likely drawn by Elkanah Tisdale, an early 19th-century painter, designer, and engraver who was living in Boston at the time. Tisdale had the engraving skills to cut the woodblocks to print the original cartoon. These woodblocks survive and are preserved in the Library of Congress.\n\nThe word \"gerrymander\" was reprinted numerous times in Federalist newspapers in Massachusetts, New England, and nationwide during the remainder of 1812. This suggests some organized activity of the Federalists to disparage Governor Gerry in particular, and the growing Democratic-Republican party in general. \"Gerrymandering\" soon began to be used to describe not only the original Massachusetts example, but also other cases of district shape manipulation for partisan gain in other states. According to the \"Oxford English Dictionary,\" the word's acceptance was marked by its publication in a dictionary (1848) and in an encyclopedia (1868). Since the letter \"g\" of the eponymous \"Gerry\" is pronounced with a hard g as in \"get\", the word \"gerrymander\" was originally pronounced . However, pronunciation as , with a soft g as in \"gentle,\" has become the accepted pronunciation.\n\nFrom time to time, other names are given the \"-mander\" suffix to tie a particular effort to a particular politician or group. These include the 1852 \"Henry-mandering\", \"Jerrymander\" (referring to California Governor Jerry Brown), \"Perrymander\" (a reference to Texas Governor Rick Perry), and \"Tullymander\" (after the Irish politician James Tully).\n\nGerrymandering is used most often in favor of ruling incumbents or a specific political party—the one drawing the map. Societies whose legislatures use a single-winner electoral system are the most likely to have political parties that gerrymander for advantage. Most notably, gerrymandering is particularly effective in non-proportional systems that tend towards fewer parties, such as \"first past the post\".\n\nIn proportional-election systems, where political parties are represented in proportion to the total numbers of votes they receive, gerrymandering has little or less significance. In voting systems where an electorate is not divided into individual constituencies, but is instead polled as one district (for instance, elections to the Israeli Knesset, or to the European Parliament in Germany) gerrymandering is entirely irrelevant. Note, however, that it is possible to gerrymander the result of an election to a national/electorate-wide office where that election's electoral system is not based on a direct suffrage, but instead operates some form of constituent-parts voting system; for example national elections in the Roman Republic (consular etc.) saw voters placed into \"tribes\" (constituent voting blocks), with each tribe voting as a unit to endorse particular candidates. The poor voters tended to be huddled together in a few tribes whilst the rich interest was spread out across many. The effect was a structure which explicitly benefited the Optimates (traditionalist) faction over the more progressive Populares alignment, since the former tended to draw more of its support from the Roman aristocracy and equestrian classes, whilst candidates for the latter drew their strength from the lower plebeian orders.\n\nSome countries, such as Australia, Canada, and the UK, authorize non-partisan organizations to set constituency boundaries in an attempt to prevent gerrymandering. Gerrymandering is most common in countries where elected politicians are responsible for defining constituency boundaries. They have an obvious and immediate interest in the outcome of the process.\n\nWhere an electoral system has not changed over time, it is possible that the interplay between a static voting structure and changing demographics will introduce disproportionality into the system. Most obviously, this can manifest itself by a simple transfer of the population; for instance in Japan the constituencies for the National Diet have failed to reflect the growth in urban areas in recent decades; in a circumstance such as this the boundaries will need to be re-homogenised to effect equal voting power across electors.\n\nA more complicated example is where a system is specifically designed (even on a good faith basis) to ensure that it has modifications to the principle of one person, one (equal) vote: for instance by granting multiple votes to a certain demographic, or to certain geographical areas. If the circumstances which led to such rules being adopted have changed, it can inadvertently prejudice the outcome. A real world illustration of this is the system for electing the President of the United States, which unlike most other directly-elected heads of state (such as the Presidency of France) operates through an electorate college rather than simple suffrage by the voting population. The American Electoral College grants a disproportionate benefit in favour of rural voters because each state is entitled to a minimum proportion of votes in the electoral college total. Note that this example is inadvertent, having arisen by the forces of history and not design, since the relevant constitutional provision was adopted prior to the industrial revolution in that country, which altered the demographics to create the bias.\n\nIt should, however, be noted that where a system is created on a good faith basis to have modifications to a basic one person one vote structure, it is possible that changing circumstances will inadvertently (from the basis of the structure's designers) lead to gerrymandering. For example, in Northern Ireland local government elections prior to the 1960s, the voting system was designed to allow those who paid higher amounts of rates to have more than one vote, with additional votes per amount paid (up to a cap). This system was designed with a bias in mind: to advance the interests of the wealthy. The system's originator, (the Ulster Unionist Party), which was by background and inclination primarily an upper middle-class party, was quite open about this and were of the view that it was a proper goal in and of itself (the thinking being that those who contributed more had more of a stake). In this sense, though politically contentious, the system was introduced on a good faith basis - in such sense not being a true gerrymander. However, by the 1960s changing demographics through movement of sectarian minorities into previously uniform districts, coupled with rising minority awareness in Northern Ireland, had revealed a more latent bias: that Protestants tended to be wealthier (in part, possibly, due to wider discrimination in society), and thus had more votes per capita. The result was that Catholics had reduced influence on local government elections, even in those districts where they might be expected to exert control. As such, they were de facto discriminated against, though this was not the primary intention ab initio.\n\nBoth the American and Northern Irish examples show that, as a system becomes biased as a passive process, such changes have the capacity to alter the attitude of operatives within it from good to bad faith actors. In America, factions approve the outsized voting strength of rural voters, because they tend to be more conservative which suits the inclination of some Republicans. In Northern Ireland, the system which kept Protestants in a position of advantage was defended on that basis, though it was known to be for discriminatory purposes only.\n\nThe primary goals of gerrymandering are to maximize the effect of supporters' votes and to minimize the effect of opponents' votes. A partisan gerrymander's main purpose is to influence not only the districting statute but the entire corpus of legislative decisions enacted in its path.\n\nThese can be accomplished through a number of ways:\n\nThese tactics are typically combined in some form, creating a few \"forfeit\" seats for packed voters of one type in order to secure more seats and greater representation for voters of another type. This results in candidates of one party (the one responsible for the gerrymandering) winning by small majorities in most of the districts, and another party winning by a large majority in only a few of the districts.\n\nGerrymandering is effective because of the wasted vote effect. \"Wasted votes\" are votes that did not contribute to electing a candidate, either because they were in excess of the bare minimum needed for victory or because the candidate lost. By moving geographic boundaries, the incumbent party packs opposition voters into a few districts they will already win, wasting the extra votes. Other districts are more tightly constructed with the opposition party allowed a bare minority count, thereby wasting all the minority votes for the losing candidate. These districts constitute the majority of districts and are drawn to produce a result favoring the incumbent party.\n\nA quantitative measure of the effect of gerrymandering is the efficiency gap, computed from the difference in the wasted votes for two different political parties summed over all the districts. When the parties win district elections in rough proportion to their electoral popularity, the efficiency gap is near zero. Citing in part an efficiency gap of 11.69% to 13%, a U.S. District Court in 2016 ruled against the 2011 drawing of Wisconsin legislative districts. In the 2012 election for the state legislature, that gap in wasted votes meant that one party had 48.6% of the two-party votes but won 61% of the 99 districts.\n\nWhile the wasted vote effect is strongest when a party wins by narrow margins across multiple districts, gerrymandering narrow margins can be risky when voters are less predictable. To minimize the risk of demographic or political shifts swinging a district to the opposition, politicians can create more packed districts, leading to more comfortable margins in unpacked ones.\n\nSome political science research suggests that, contrary to common belief, gerrymandering does not decrease electoral competition, and can even increase it. Some say that, rather than packing the voters of their party into uncompetitive districts, party leaders tend to prefer to spread their party's voters into multiple districts, so that their party can win a larger number of races. (See scenario (c) in the box.) This may lead to increased competition. Instead of gerrymandering, some researchers find that other factors, such as partisan polarization and the incumbency advantage, have driven the recent decreases in electoral competition. Similarly, a 2009 study found that \"congressional polarization is primarily a function of the differences in how Democrats and Republicans represent the same districts rather than a function of which districts each party represents or the distribution of constituency preferences.\"\n\nThese findings are, however, a matter of some dispute. While gerrymandering may not decrease electoral competition in all cases, there are certainly instances where gerrymandering does reduce such competition.\n\nOne state in which gerrymandering has arguably had an adverse effect on electoral competition is California. In 2000, a bipartisan redistricting effort redrew congressional district lines in ways that all but guaranteed incumbent victories; as a result, California saw only one congressional seat change hands between 2000 and 2010. In response to this obvious gerrymandering, a 2010 referendum in California gave the power to redraw congressional district lines to the California Citizens Redistricting Commission, which had been created to draw California State Senate and Assembly districts by another referendum in 2008. In stark contrast to the redistricting efforts that followed the 2000 census, the redistricting commission has created a number of the most competitive congressional districts in the country.\n\nThe effect of gerrymandering for incumbents is particularly advantageous, as incumbents are far more likely to be reelected under conditions of gerrymandering. For example, in 2002, according to political scientists Norman Ornstein and Thomas Mann, only four challengers were able to defeat incumbent members of the U.S. Congress, the lowest number in modern American history. Incumbents are likely to be of the majority party orchestrating a gerrymander, and incumbents are usually easily renominated in subsequent elections, including incumbents among the minority.\n\nMann, a Senior Fellow of Governance Studies at the Brookings Institution, has also noted that \"Redistricting is a deeply political process, with incumbents actively seeking to minimize the risk to themselves (via bipartisan gerrymanders) or to gain additional seats for their party (via partisan gerrymanders)\". The bipartisan gerrymandering that Mann mentions refers to the fact that legislators often also draw distorted legislative districts even when such redistricting does not provide an advantage to their party.\n\nGerrymandering of state legislative districts can effectively guarantee an incumbent's victory by 'shoring up' a district with higher levels of partisan support, without disproportionately benefiting a particular political party. This can be highly problematic from a governance perspective, because forming districts to ensure high levels of partisanship often leads to higher levels of partisanship in legislative bodies. If a substantial number of districts are designed to be polarized, then those districts' representation will also likely act in a heavily partisan manner, which can create and perpetuate partisan gridlock.\n\nThis demonstrates that gerrymandering can have a deleterious effect on the principle of democratic accountability. With uncompetitive seats/districts reducing the fear that incumbent politicians may lose office, they have less incentive to represent the interests of their constituents, even when those interests conform to majority support for an issue across the electorate as a whole. Incumbent politicians may look out more for their party's interests than for those of their constituents.\n\nGerrymandering can affect campaign costs for district elections. If districts become increasingly stretched out, candidates must pay increased costs for transportation and trying to develop and present campaign advertising across a district. The incumbent's advantage in securing campaign funds is another benefit of his or her having a gerrymandered secure seat.\n\nGerrymandering also has significant effects on the representation received by voters in gerrymandered districts. Because gerrymandering can be designed to increase the number of wasted votes among the electorate, the relative representation of particular groups can be drastically altered from their actual share of the voting population. This effect can significantly prevent a gerrymandered system from achieving proportional and descriptive representation, as the winners of elections are increasingly determined by who is drawing the districts rather than the preferences of the voters.\n\nGerrymandering may be advocated to improve representation within the legislature among otherwise underrepresented minority groups by packing them into a single district. This can be controversial, as it may lead to those groups' remaining marginalised in the government as they become confined to a single district. Candidates outside that district no longer need to represent them to win elections.\n\nAs an example, much of the redistricting conducted in the United States in the early 1990s involved the intentional creation of additional \"majority-minority\" districts where racial minorities such as African Americans were packed into the majority. This \"maximization policy\" drew support by both the Republican Party (who had limited support among African Americans and could concentrate their power elsewhere) and by minority representatives elected as Democrats from these constituencies, who then had safe seats. \n\nThe 2012 election provides a number of examples as to how partisan gerrymandering can adversely affect the descriptive function of states' congressional delegations. In Pennsylvania, for example, Democratic candidates for the House of Representatives received 83,000 more votes than Republican candidates, yet the Republican-controlled redistricting process in 2010 resulted in Democrats losing to their Republican counterparts in 13 out of Pennsylvania's 18 districts.\n\nIn the seven states where Republicans had complete control over the redistricting process, Republican House candidates received 16.7 million votes and Democratic House candidates received 16.4 million votes. The redistricting resulted in Republican victories in 73 out of the 107 affected seats; in those 7 states, Republicans received 50.4% of the votes but won in over 68% of the congressional districts. While it is but one example of how gerrymandering can have a significant effect on election outcomes, this kind of disproportional representation of the public will seems to be problematic for the legitimacy of democratic systems, regardless of one's political affiliation.\n\nIn Michigan, redistricting was constructed by a Republican Legislature in 2011. Federal congressional districts were so designed that cities such as Battle Creek, Grand Rapids, Jackson, Kalamazoo, Lansing, and East Lansing were separated into districts with large conservative-leaning hinterlands that essentially diluted the Democratic votes in those cities in Congressional elections. Since 2010 not one of those cities is within a district in which a Democratic nominee for the House of Representatives has a reasonable chance of winning, short of Democratic landslide.\n\nGerrymandering can also be done to help incumbents as a whole, effectively turning every district into a packed one and greatly reducing the potential for competitive elections. This is particularly likely to occur when the minority party has significant obstruction power—unable to enact a partisan gerrymander, the legislature instead agrees on ensuring their own mutual reelection.\n\nIn an unusual occurrence in 2000, for example, the two dominant parties in the state of California cooperatively redrew both state and Federal legislative districts to preserve the status quo, ensuring the electoral safety of the politicians from unpredictable voting by the electorate. This move proved completely effective, as no State or Federal legislative office changed party in the 2004 election, although 53 congressional, 20 state senate, and 80 state assembly seats were potentially at risk.\n\nIn 2006, the term \"70/30 District\" came to signify the equitable split of two evenly split (i.e. 50/50) districts. The resulting districts gave each party a guaranteed seat and retained their respective power base.\n\nPrison-based gerrymandering occurs when prisoners are counted as residents of a particular district, increasing the district's population with non-voters when assigning political apportionment. This phenomenon violates the principle of one person, one vote because, although many prisoners come from (and return to) urban communities, they are counted as \"residents\" of the rural districts that contain large prisons, thereby artificially inflating the political representation in districts with prisons at the expense of voters in all other districts without prisons. Others contend that prisoners should not be counted as residents of their original districts when they do not reside there and are not legally eligible to vote.\n\nDue to the perceived issues associated with gerrymandering and its effect on competitive elections and democratic accountability, numerous countries have enacted reforms making the practice either more difficult or less effective. Countries such as the U.K., Australia, Canada and most of those in Europe have transferred responsibility for defining constituency boundaries to neutral or cross-party bodies. In Spain, they are constitutionally fixed since 1978.\n\nIn the United States, however, such reforms are controversial and frequently meet particularly strong opposition from groups that benefit from gerrymandering. In a more neutral system, they might lose considerable influence.\n\nThe most commonly advocated electoral reform proposal targeted at gerrymandering is to change the redistricting process. Under these proposals, an independent and presumably objective commission is created specifically for redistricting, rather than having the legislature do it.\n\nThis is the system used in the United Kingdom, where the independent boundary commissions determine the boundaries for constituencies in the House of Commons and the devolved legislatures, subject to ratification by the body in question (almost always granted without debate). A similar situation exists in Australia where the independent Australian Electoral Commission and its state-based counterparts determine electoral boundaries for federal, state and local jurisdictions.\n\nTo help ensure neutrality, members of a redistricting agency may be appointed from relatively apolitical sources such as retired judges or longstanding members of the civil service, possibly with requirements for adequate representation among competing political parties. Additionally, members of the board can be denied access to information that might aid in gerrymandering, such as the demographic makeup or voting patterns of the population.\n\nAs a further constraint, consensus requirements can be imposed to ensure that the resulting district map reflects a wider perception of fairness, such as a requirement for a supermajority approval of the commission for any district proposal. Consensus requirements, however, can lead to deadlock, such as occurred in Missouri following the 2000 census. There, the equally numbered partisan appointees were unable to reach consensus in a reasonable time, and consequently the courts had to determine district lines.\n\nIn the U.S. state of Iowa, the nonpartisan Legislative Services Bureau (LSB, akin to the U.S. Congressional Research Service) determines boundaries of electoral districts. Aside from satisfying federally mandated contiguity and population equality criteria, the LSB mandates unity of counties and cities. Consideration of political factors such as location of incumbents, previous boundary locations, and political party proportions is specifically forbidden. Since Iowa's counties are chiefly regularly shaped polygons, the LSB process has led to districts that follow county lines.\n\nIn 2005, the U.S. state of Ohio had a ballot measure to create an independent commission whose first priority was competitive districts, a sort of \"reverse gerrymander\". A complex mathematical formula was to be used to determine the competitiveness of a district. The measure failed voter approval chiefly due to voter concerns that communities of interest would be broken up.\n\nIn 2017, the Open Our Democracy Act of 2017 was submitted to the US House of Representatives by Rep. Delaney as a means to implement non-partisan redistricting.\n\nWhen a single political party controls both legislative houses of a state during redistricting, both Democrats and Republicans have displayed a marked propensity for couching the process in secrecy; in May 2010, for example, the Republican National Committee held a redistricting training session in Ohio where the theme was \"Keep it Secret, Keep it Safe\". The need for increased transparency in redistricting processes is clear; a 2012 investigation by The Center for Public Integrity reviewed every state's redistricting processes for both transparency and potential for public input, and ultimately assigned 24 states grades of either D or F.\n\nIn response to these types of problems, redistricting transparency legislation has been introduced to US Congress a number of times in recent years, including the Redistricting Transparency Acts of 2010, 2011, and 2013. Such policy proposals aim to increase the transparency and responsiveness of the redistricting systems in the US. The merit of increasing transparency in redistricting processes is based largely on the premise that lawmakers would be less inclined to draw gerrymandered districts if they were forced to defend such districts in a public forum.\n\nBecause gerrymandering relies on the wasted-vote effect, the use of a different voting system with fewer wasted votes can help reduce gerrymandering. In particular, the use of multi-member districts alongside voting systems establishing proportional representation such as single transferable voting can reduce wasted votes and gerrymandering. Semi-proportional voting systems such as single non-transferable vote or cumulative voting are relatively simple and similar to \"first past the post\" and can also reduce the proportion of wasted votes and thus potential gerrymandering. Electoral reformers have advocated all three as replacement systems.\n\nElectoral systems with various forms of proportional representation are now found in nearly all European countries, resulting in multi-party systems (with many parties represented in the parliaments) with higher voter attendance in the elections, fewer wasted votes, and a wider variety of political opinions represented.\n\nElectoral systems with election of just one winner in each district (i.e., \"winner-takes-all\" electoral systems) and no proportional distribution of extra mandates to smaller parties tend to create two-party systems (Duverger's law). In these, just two parties effectively compete in the national elections and thus the national political discussions are forced into a narrow two-party frame, where loyalty and forced statements inside the two parties distort the political debate.\n\nIf a proportional or semi-proportional voting system is used then increasing the number of winners in any given district will reduce the number of wasted votes. This can be accomplished both by merging separate districts together and by increasing the total size of the body to be elected. Since gerrymandering relies on exploiting the wasted vote effect, increasing the number of winners per district can reduce the potential for gerrymandering in proportional systems. Unless all districts are merged, however, this method cannot eliminate gerrymandering entirely.\n\nIn contrast to proportional methods, if a nonproportional voting system with multiple winners (such as block voting) is used, then increasing the size of the elected body while keeping the number of districts constant will not reduce the amount of wasted votes, leaving the potential for gerrymandering the same. While merging districts together under such a system can reduce the potential for gerrymandering, doing so also amplifies the tendency of block voting to produce landslide victories, creating a similar effect to gerrymandering by concentrating wasted votes among the opposition and denying them representation.\n\nIf a system of single-winner elections is used, then increasing the size of the elected body will implicitly increase the number of districts to be created. This change can actually make gerrymandering easier when raising the number of single-winner elections, as opposition groups can be more efficiently packed into smaller districts without accidentally including supporters, further increasing the number of wasted votes amongst the opposition.\n\nAnother way to avoid gerrymandering is simply to stop redistricting altogether and use existing political boundaries such as state, county, or provincial lines. While this prevents future gerrymandering, any existing advantage may become deeply ingrained. The United States Senate, for instance, has more competitive elections than the House of Representatives due to the use of existing state borders rather than gerrymandered districts—Senators are elected by their entire state, while Representatives are elected in legislatively drawn districts.\n\nThe use of fixed districts creates an additional problem, however, in that fixed districts do not take into account changes in population. Individual voters can come to have very different degrees of influence on the legislative process. This malapportionment can greatly affect representation after long periods of time or large population movements. In the United Kingdom during the Industrial Revolution, several constituencies that had been fixed since they gained representation in the Parliament of England became so small that they could be won with only a handful of voters (\"rotten boroughs\"). Similarly, in the U.S. the state legislature of Alabama refused to redistrict for more than 60 years, despite major changes in population patterns. By 1960 less than a quarter of the state's population controlled the majority of seats in the legislature. However, this practice of using fixed districts for state legislatures was effectively banned in the United States after the \"Reynolds v. Sims\" Supreme Court decision in 1964, establishing a rule of one man, one vote.\n\nAnother means to reduce gerrymandering is to create objective, precise criteria to which any district map must comply. Courts in the United States, for instance, have ruled that congressional districts must be contiguous in order to be constitutional. This, however, is not a particularly binding constraint, as very narrow strips of land with few or no voters in them may be used to connect separate regions for inclusion in one district, as is the case in Illinois's 4th congressional district.\n\nDepending on the distribution of voters for a particular party, metrics that maximize compactness can be opposed to metrics that minimize the efficiency gap. For example, in the United States, voters registered with the Democratic Party tend to be concentrated in cities, potentially resulting in a large number of \"wasted\" votes if compact districts are drawn around city populations. Neither of these metrics take into consideration other possible goals, such as proportional representation based on other demographic characteristics (such as race, ethnicity, gender, or income), maximizing competitiveness of elections (the greatest number of districts where party affiliation is 50/50), avoiding splits of existing government units (like cities and counties), and ensuring representation of major interest groups (like farmers or voters in a specific transportation corridor), though any of these could be incorporated into a more complicated metric.\n\nOne method is to define a minimum district to convex polygon ratio . To use this method, every proposed district is circumscribed by the smallest possible convex polygon (similar to the concept of a convex hull; think of stretching a rubberband around the outline of the district). Then, the area of the district is divided by the area of the polygon; or, if at the edge of the state, by the portion of the area of the polygon within state boundaries.\n\nThe advantages of this method are that it allows a certain amount of human intervention to take place (thus solving the Colorado problem of splitline districting); it allows the borders of the district to follow existing jagged subdivisions, such as neighbourhoods or voting districts (something isoperimetric rules would discourage); and it allows concave coastline districts, such as the Florida gulf coast area. It would mostly eliminate bent districts, but still permit long, straight ones. However, since human intervention is still allowed, the gerrymandering issues of packing and cracking would still occur, just to a lesser extent.\n\nThe Center for Range Voting has proposed a way to draw districts by a simple algorithm. The algorithm uses only the shape of the state, the number N of districts wanted, and the population distribution as inputs. The algorithm (slightly simplified) is:\nThis district-drawing algorithm has the advantages of simplicity, ultra-low cost, a single possible result (thus no possibility of human interference), lack of intentional bias, and it produces simple boundaries that do not meander needlessly. It has the disadvantage of ignoring geographic features such as rivers, cliffs, and highways and cultural features such as tribal boundaries. This landscape oversight causes it to produce districts different from those a human would produce. Ignoring geographic features can induce very simple boundaries.\n\nWhile most districts produced by the method will be fairly compact and either roughly rectangular or triangular, some of the resulting districts can still be long and narrow strips (or triangles) of land.\n\nLike most automatic redistricting rules, the shortest splitline algorithm will fail to create majority-minority districts, for both ethnic and political minorities, if the minority populations are not very compact. This might reduce minority representation.\n\nAnother criticism of the system is that splitline districts sometimes divide and diffuse the voters in a large metropolitan area. This condition is most likely to occur when one of the first splitlines cuts through the metropolitan area. It is often considered a drawback of the system because residents of the same agglomeration are assumed to be a community of common interest. This is most evident in the splitline allocation of Colorado.\n\nAs of July 2007, shortest-splitline redistricting pictures, based on the results of the 2000 census, are available for all 50 states.\n\nIt is possible to define a specific minimum isoperimetric quotient, proportional to the ratio between the area and the square of the perimeter of any given congressional voting district. Although technologies presently exist to define districts in this manner, there are no rules in place mandating their use, and no national movement to implement such a policy. One problem with the simplest version of this rule is that it would prevent incorporation of jagged natural boundaries, such as rivers or mountains; when such boundaries are required, such as at the edge of a state, certain districts may not be able to meet the required minima. One way of avoiding this problem is to allow districts which share a border with a state border to replace that border with a polygon or semi-circle enclosing the state boundary as a kind of virtual boundary definition, but using the actual perimeter of the district whenever this occurs inside the state boundaries. Enforcing a minimum isoperimetric quotient would encourage districts with a high ratio between area and perimeter.\n\nThe efficiency gap is a simply-calculable measure that can show the effects of gerrymandering. It measures wasted votes for each party: the sum of votes cast in losing districts (losses due to cracking) and excess votes cast in winning districts (losses due to packing). The difference in these wasted votes are divided by total votes cast, and the resulting percentage is the efficiency gap.\n\nThe introduction of modern computers alongside the development of elaborate voter databases and special districting software has made gerrymandering a far more precise science. Using such databases, political parties can obtain detailed information about every household including political party registration, previous campaign donations, and the number of times residents voted in previous elections and combine it with other predictors of voting behavior such as age, income, race, or education level. With this data, gerrymandering politicians can predict the voting behavior of each potential district with an astonishing degree of precision, leaving little chance for creating an accidentally competitive district.\n\nOn the other hand, the introduction of modern computers would let the United States Census Bureau to calculate more equal populations in every voting district that are based only on districts being the most compact and equal populations. This could be done easily using their Block Centers based on the Global Positioning System rather than street addresses. With this data, gerrymandering politicians will not be in charge, thus allowing competitive districts again.\n\nOnline web apps such as Dave's Redistricting have allowed any citizen to redistrict states into legislative districts as they wish According to Bradlee, the software was designed to \"put power in people's hands,\" and so that they \"can see how the process works, so it's a little less mysterious than it was 10 years ago.\" \n\nSeveral western democracies, notably Israel, the Netherlands, Slovakia and Slovenia employ an electoral system with only one (nationwide) voting district for election of national representatives. This virtually precludes gerrymandering. Other European countries such as Austria, the Czech Republic or Sweden, among many others, have electoral districts with fixed boundaries (usually one district for each administrative division). The number of representatives for each district can change after a census due to population shifts, but their boundaries do not change. This also effectively eliminates gerrymandering.\n\nAdditionally, many countries where the president is directly elected by the citizens (e.g. France, Poland, among others) use only one electoral district for presidential election, despite using multiple districts to elect representatives.\n\nGerrymandering has not typically been considered a problem in the Australian electoral system largely because drawing of electoral boundaries has typically been done by non-partisan electoral commissions. There have been historical cases of malapportionment, whereby the distribution of electors to electorates was not in proportion to the population in several states. For example, Sir Thomas Playford was Premier of South Australia from 1938 to 1965 as a result of a system of malapportionment, which became known as the Playmander, despite it not strictly speaking involving a gerrymander. More recently the nominally independent South Australian Electoral Districts Boundaries Commission has been accused of favouring the Australian Labor Party, as the party has been able to form government in four of the last seven elections, despite receiving a lower two-party preferred vote.\n\nIn Queensland, malapportionment combined with a gerrymander under Premier Sir Joh Bjelke-Petersen became nicknamed the Bjelkemander in the 1970s and 1980s. Under the system, electoral boundaries were drawn so that rural electorates had as few as half as many voters as metropolitan ones and regions with high levels of support for the opposition Labor Party were concentrated into fewer electorates, allowing Bjelke-Petersen's Country Party (later National Party) led Coalition government to remain in power despite attracting substantially less than 50% of the vote. In the 1986 election, for example, the National Party received 39.64% of the first preference vote and won 49 seats (in the 89 seat legislature) whilst the Labor Opposition received 41.35% but won only 30 seats. Despite this, the Liberals/Nationals still received a greater combined share of the vote than the Labor opposition because the system also worked against the Liberal representation.\n\nEarly in Canadian history, both the federal and provincial levels used gerrymandering to try to maximise partisan power. When Alberta and Saskatchewan were admitted to Confederation in 1905, their original district boundaries were set forth in the respective Alberta and Saskatchewan Acts. These boundaries had been devised by federal Liberal cabinet members to ensure the election of provincial Liberal governments.\n\nSince responsibility for drawing federal and provincial electoral boundaries was handed over to independent agencies, this problem has largely been eliminated at these levels of government. Manitoba was the first province to authorise a non-partisan group to define constituency boundaries in the 1950s. In 1964, the federal government delegated the drawing of boundaries for national seats to the \"arm's length\" Elections Canada.\n\nAs a result, gerrymandering is not generally a major issue in Canada except at the civic level. Although city wards are recommended by independent agencies, city councils occasionally overrule them. This is much more likely where the city is not homogenous and different neighbourhoods have sharply different opinions about city policy direction.\n\nIn 2006, a controversy arose in Prince Edward Island over the provincial government's decision to throw out an electoral map drawn by an independent commission. Instead they created two new maps. The government adopted the second of these, designed by the caucus of the governing party. Opposition parties and the media attacked Premier Pat Binns for what they saw as gerrymandering of districts. Among other things, the government adopted a map that ensured that every current Member of the Legislative Assembly from the premier's party had a district to run in for re-election, whereas in the original map, several had been redistricted. Despite this, in the 2007 provincial election only seven of 20 incumbent Members of the Legislative Assembly were re-elected (seven did not run for re-election), and the government was defeated.\n\nThe military government which ruled Chile from 1973 to 1990 was ousted in a national plebiscite in October 1988. Opponents of General Augusto Pinochet voted NO to remove him from power and to trigger democratic elections, while supporters (mostly from the right-wing) voted YES to keep him in office for another eight years.\n\nFive months prior to the plebiscite, the regime published a law regulating future elections and referendums, but the configuration of electoral districts and the manner in which Congress seats would be awarded were only added to the law seven months after the referendum.\n\nFor the Chamber of Deputies (lower house), 60 districts were drawn by grouping (mostly) neighboring communes (the smallest administrative subdivision in the country) within the same region (the largest). It was established that two deputies would be elected per district, with the most voted coalition needing to outpoll its closest rival by a margin of more than 2-to-1 to take both seats. The results of the 1988 plebiscite show that neither the \"NO\" side nor the \"YES\" side outpolled the other by said margin in any of the newly established districts. They also showed that the vote/seat ratio was lower in districts which supported the \"YES\" side and higher in those where the \"NO\" was strongest. In spite of this, at the 1989 parliamentary election, the center-left opposition was able to capture both seats (the so-called \"doblaje\") in twelve out of 60 districts, winning control of 60% of the Chamber.\n\nSenate constituencies were created by grouping all lower-chamber districts in a region, or by dividing a region into two constituencies of contiguous lower-chamber districts. The 1980 Constitution allocated a number of seats to appointed senators, making it harder for one side to change the Constitution by itself. The opposition won 22 senate seats in the 1989 election, taking both seats in three out of 19 constituencies, controlling 58% of the elected Senate, but only 47% of the full Senate. The unelected senators were eliminated in the 2005 constitutional reforms, but the electoral map has remained largely untouched (two new regions were created in 2007, one of which altered the composition of two senatorial constituencies; the first election to be affected by this minor change took place in 2013).\n\nFrance is one of the few countries to let legislatures redraw the map with no check. In practice, the legislature sets up an executive commission. Districts called \"arrondissements\" were used in the Third Republic and under the Fifth Republic they are called \"circonscriptions\". During the Third Republic, some reforms of arrondissements, which were also used for administrative purposes, were largely suspected to have been arranged to favour the kingmaker in the Assembly, the Parti radical.\n\nThe dissolution of Seine and Seine-et-Oise départements was seen as a case of Gerrymandering to counter communist's influence around Paris.\n\nIn the modern regime, there were three designs: in 1958 (regime change), 1987 (by Charles Pasqua) and 2010 (by Alain Marleix), three times by conservative governments. Pasqua's drawing was known to have been particularly good at gerrymandering, resulting in 80% of the seats with 58% of the vote in 1993, and forcing Socialists in the 1997 snap election to enact multiple pacts with smaller parties in order to win again, this time as a coalition. In 2010, the Sarkozy government created 12 districts for expats.\n\nThe Constitutional council was called twice by the opposition to decide about gerrymandering, but it never considered partisan disproportions. However, it forced the Marleix committee to respect an 80–120% population ratio, ending a tradition dating back to the Revolution in which \"départements\", however small in population, would send at least two MPs.\n\nGerrymandering in France is also done against regionalist parties. \"Départements\" are always used even if they split urban areas or larger identity territories, and smaller identity divisions are avoided.\n\nWhen the electoral districts in Germany were redrawn in 2000, the ruling center-left Social Democratic Party (SPD) was accused of gerrymandering to marginalise the left-wing PDS party. The SPD combined traditional PDS strongholds in eastern Berlin with new districts made up of more populous areas of western Berlin, where the PDS had very limited following.\n\nAfter having won four seats in Berlin in the 1998 national election, the PDS was able to retain only two seats altogether in the 2002 elections. Under German electoral law, a political party has to win either more than five percent of the votes, or at least three directly elected seats, to qualify for top-up seats under the Additional Member System. The PDS vote fell below five percent thus they failed to qualify for top-up seats and were confined to just two members of the Bundestag, the German federal parliament (elected representatives are always allowed to hold their seats as individuals). Had they won a third constituency, the PDS would have gained at least 25 additional seats, which would have been enough to hold the balance of power in the Bundestag.\n\nIn the election of 2005, The Left (successor of the PDS) gained 8.7% of the votes and thus qualified for top-up seats.\n\nThe number of Bundestag seats of parties which traditionally get over 5% of the votes cannot be affected very much by gerrymandering, because seats are awarded to these parties on a proportional basis. However, when a party wins so many districts in any one of the 16 federal states that those seats alone count for more than its proportional share of the vote in that same state does the districting have some influence on larger parties—those extra seats, called \"Überhangmandate\", remain. In the Bundestag election of 2009, Angela Merkel's CDU/CSU gained 24 such extra seats, while no other party gained any; this skewed the result so much that the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany issued two rulings declaring the existing election laws invalid and requiring the Bundestag to pass a new law limiting such extra seats to no more than 15. In 2013, Germany's Supreme Court ruled on the constitutionality of Überhangmandate, which from then on have to be added in proportion to the second vote of each party thereby making it impossible that one party can have more seats than earned by the proportionate votes in the election.\n\nGerrymandering has been rather common in Greek history since organised parties with national ballots only appeared after the 1926 Constitution. The only case before that was the creation of the Piraeus electoral district in 1906, in order to give the Theotokis party a safe district.\n\nThe most infamous case of gerrymandering was in the 1956 election. While in previous elections the districts were based on the prefecture level (νομός), for 1956 the country was split in districts of varying sizes, some being the size of prefectures, some the size of sub-prefectures (επαρχία) and others somewhere in between. In small districts the winning party would take all seats, in intermediate size it would take most and there was proportional representation in the largest districts. The districts were created in such a way that small districts were those that traditionally voted for the right while large districts were those that voted against the right.\n\nThis system has become known as the three-phase (τριφασικό) system or the baklava system (because, as baklava is split into full pieces and corner pieces, the country was also split into disproportionate pieces). The opposition, being composed of the center and the left, formed a coalition with the sole intent of changing the electoral law and then calling new elections, despite the fact that only seven years earlier the center and the left had fought each other in the Greek Civil War. Even though the centrist and leftist opposition won the popular vote (1,620,007 votes against 1,594,992), the right wing ERE won the majority of seats (165 to 135) and was to lead the country for the next two years.\n\nIn Hong Kong, functional constituencies are demarcated by the government and defined in statutes, making them prone to gerrymandering. The functional constituency for the information technology sector was particular criticised for gerrymandering and voteplanting.\n\nThere are also gerrymandering concerns in the constituencies of district councils.\n\nIn 2011, Fidesz politician János Lázár has proposed a redesign to Hungarian voting districts; considering the territorial results of previous elections, this redesign would favor right-wing politics according to the opposition. Since then, the law has been passed by the Fidesz-majority Parliament. Formerly it took twice as many votes to gain a seat in some election districts as in some others.\n\nUntil the 1980s Dáil boundaries in Ireland were drawn not by an independent commission but by government ministers. Successive arrangements by governments of all political characters have been attacked as gerrymandering. Ireland uses the single transferable vote and as well as the actual boundaries drawn the main tool of gerrymandering has been the number of seats per constituency used, with three-seat constituencies normally benefiting the strongest parties in an area, whereas four-seat constituencies normally help smaller parties.\n\nIn 1947 the rapid rise of new party Clann na Poblachta threatened the position of the governing party Fianna Fáil. The government of Éamon de Valera introduced the Electoral (Amendment) Act 1947, which increased the size of the Dáil from 138 to 147 and increased the number of three-seat constituencies from fifteen to twenty-two. The result was described by the journalist and historian Tim Pat Coogan as \"a blatant attempt at gerrymander which no Six County Unionist could have bettered.\" The following February the 1948 general election was held and Clann na Poblachta secured ten seats instead of the nineteen they would have received proportional to their vote.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, the Minister for Local Government, James Tully, attempted to arrange the constituencies to ensure that the governing Fine Gael–Labour Party National Coalition would win a parliamentary majority. The Electoral (Amendment) Act 1974 was planned as a major reversal of previous gerrymandering by Fianna Fáil (then in opposition). Tully ensured that there were as many as possible three-seat constituencies where the governing parties were strong, in the expectation that the governing parties would each win a seat in many constituencies, relegating Fianna Fáil to one out of three.\n\nIn areas where the governing parties were weak, four-seat constituencies were used so that the governing parties had a strong chance of still winning two. The election results created substantial change, as there was a larger than expected collapse in the vote. Fianna Fáil won a landslide victory in the Irish general election, 1977, two out of three seats in many cases, relegating the National Coalition parties to fight for the last seat. Consequently, the term \"Tullymandering\" was used to describe the phenomenon of a failed attempt at gerrymandering.\n\nFrom the years 1981 until 2005, Kuwait was divided into 25 electoral districts in order to over-represent the government's supporters (the 'tribes'). In July 2005, a new law for electoral reforms was approved which prevented electoral gerrymandering by cutting the number of electoral districts from 25 to 5. \nThe government of Kuwait found that 5 electoral districts resulted in a powerful parliament with the majority representing the opposition. A new law was crafted by the government of Kuwait and signed by the Amir to gerrymander the districts to 10 allowing the government's supporters to regain the majority.\n\nThe practice of gerrymandering has been around in the country since its independence in 1957. The ruling coalition at that time, \"Barisan Nasional\" (BN; English: \"National Front\"), has been accused of controlling the election commission by revising the boundaries of constituencies. For example, during the 13th General Election in 2013, Barisan Nasional won 60% of the seats in the Malaysian Parliament despite only receiving 47% of the popular vote. Malapportionment has also been used at least since 1974, when it was observed that in one state alone (Perak), the parliamentary constituency with the most voters had more than ten times as many voters as the one with the fewest voters. These practices finally failed BN in the 14th General Election on May 9, 2018, when the opposing \"Pakatan Harapan\" (PH; English: \"Alliance of Hope\") won despite perceived efforts of gerrymandering and malapportionment from the incumbent.\n\nThe Labour Party that won in 1981, even though the Nationalist Party got the most votes, did so because of its gerrymandering. A 1987 constitutional amendment prevented that situation from reoccurring.\n\nAfter the restoration of democracy in 1990, Nepali politics has well exercised the practice of gerrymandering with the view to take advantage in the election. It was often practised by Nepali Congress, which remained in power in most of the time. Learning from this, the reshaping of constituency was done for constituent assembly and the opposition now wins elections.\n\nCongressional districts in the Philippines were originally based on an ordinance from the 1987 Constitution, which was created by the Constitutional Commission, which was ultimately based on legislative districts as they were drawn in 1907. The same constitution gave Congress of the Philippines the power to legislate new districts, either through a national redistricting bill or piecemeal redistricting per province or city. Congress has never passed a national redistricting bill since the approval of the 1987 constitution, while it has incrementally created 34 new districts, out of the 200 originally created in 1987.\n\nThis allows Congress to create new districts once a place reaches 250,000 inhabitants, the minimum required for its creation. With this, local dynasties, through congressmen, can exert influence in the district-making process by creating bills carving new districts from old ones. In time, as the population of the Philippines increases, these districts, or groups of it, will be the basis of carving new provinces out of existing ones.\n\nAn example was in Camarines Sur, where two districts were divided into three districts which allegedly favors the Andaya and the Arroyo families; it caused Rolando Andaya and Dato Arroyo, who would have otherwise run against each other, run in separate districts, with one district allegedly not even surpassing the 250,000-population minimum. The Supreme Court later ruled that the 250,000 population minimum does not apply to an additional district in a province. The resulting splits would later be the cause of another gerrymander, where the province would be split into a new province called Nueva Camarines; the bill was defeated in the Senate in 2013.\n\nIn recent decades, critics have accused the ruling People's Action Party (PAP) of unfair electoral practices to maintain significant majorities in the Parliament of Singapore. Among the complaints are that the government uses gerrymandering. The Elections Department was established as part of the executive branch under the Prime Minister of Singapore, rather than as an independent body. Critics have accused it of giving the ruling party the power to decide polling districts and polling sites through electoral engineering, based on poll results in previous elections.\n\nMembers of opposition parties claim that the Group Representation Constituency system is \"synonymous to gerrymandering\", pointing out examples of Cheng San GRC and Eunos GRC which were dissolved by the Elections Department with voters redistributed to other constituencies after opposition parties gained ground in elections.\n\nUntil the establishment of the Second Spanish Republic in 1931, Spain used both single-member and multi-member constituencies in general elections. Multi-member constituencies were only used in some big cities. Some gerrymandering examples included the districts of Vilademuls or Torroella de Montgrí in Catalonia. These districts were created in order to prevent the Federal Democratic Republican Party to win a seat in Figueres or La Bisbal and to secure a seat to the dynastic parties. Since 1931, the constituency boundaries match the province boundaries.\n\nAfter the Francoist dictatorship, during the transition to democracy, these fixed provincial constituencies were reestablished in Section 68.2 of the current 1978 Spanish Constitution, so gerrymandering is impossible in general elections. There are not \"winner-takes-all\" elections in Spain except for the tiny territories of Ceuta and Melilla (which only have one representative each); everywhere else the number of representatives assigned to a constituency is proportional to its population and calculated according to a national law, so tampering with under- or over-representation is difficult too.\n\nEuropean, regional and municipal elections are held under single, at-large multi-member constituencies with proportional representation and gerrymandering is not possible either.\n\nSri Lanka's new Local Government elections process has been the talking point of gerrymandering since its inception. Even though that talk was more about the ward-level, it is also seen in some local council areas too.\n\nIn the most recent election of 2010, there were numerous examples of gerrymandering throughout the entire country of Sudan. A report from the Rift Valley Institute uncovered violations of Sudan's electoral law, where constituencies were created that were well below and above the required limit. According to Sudan's National Elections Act of 2008, no constituency can have a population that is 15% greater or less than the average constituency size. The Rift Valley Report uncovered a number of constituencies that are in violation of this rule. Examples include constituencies in Jonglei, Warrap, South Darfur, and several other states.\n\nTurkey has used gerrymandering in İstanbul in 2009 municipal elections. Just before the election İstanbul is divided in new counties. Large low income boroughs are bundled with rich boroughs to win municipal elections.\n\nGerrymandering (Irish: \"Claonroinnt\") is widely considered to have been introduced after the establishment of Home Rule in Northern Ireland in 1921, favouring Unionists who tended to be Protestant, to the detriment of Nationalists who were mostly Catholic. Some critics and supporters spoke at the time of \"A Protestant Parliament for a Protestant People\". This passed also into local government. Stephen Gwynn had noted as early as 1911 that since the introduction of the Local Government (Ireland) Act 1898:\n\nIn Armagh there are 68,000 Protestants, 56,000 Catholics. The County Council has twenty-two Protestants and eight Catholics. In Tyrone, Catholics are a majority of the population, 82,000 against 68,000; but the electoral districts have been so arranged that Unionists return sixteen as against thirteen Nationalists (one a Protestant). This Council gives to the Unionists two to one majority on its Committees, and out of fifty-two officials employs only five Catholics. In Antrim, which has the largest Protestant majority (196,000 to 40,000), twenty-six Unionists and three Catholics are returned. Sixty officers out of sixty-five are good Unionists and Protestants.\n\nIn the 1920s and 1930s, the Ulster Unionist Party created new electoral boundaries for the Londonderry County Borough Council to ensure election of a Unionist council in a city where Nationalists had a large majority and had won previous elections. Initially local parties drew the boundaries, but in the 1930s the province-wide government redrew them to reinforce the gerrymander. However, in the 1967 election, Unionists won 35.5% of the votes and received 60% of the seats, while Nationalists got 27.4% of the votes but received 40% of the seats. This meant that both the Unionist and Nationalist parties were over-represented, while the Northern Ireland Labour Party and Independents (amounting to more than 35% of the votes cast) were severely under-represented.\n\nFrom the outset, Northern Ireland had installed the single transferable vote (STV) system in order to secure fair elections in terms of proportional representation in its Parliament. After two elections under that system, in 1929 Stormont changed the electoral system to be the same as the rest of the United Kingdom: a single-member first past the post system. The only exception was for the election of four Stormont MPs to represent the Queen's University of Belfast. Some scholars believe that the boundaries were gerrymandered to under-represent Nationalists. Other geographers and historians, for instance Professor John H. Whyte, disagree. They have argued that the electoral boundaries for the Parliament of Northern Ireland were not gerrymandered to a greater level than that produced by any single-winner election system, and that the actual number of Nationalist MPs barely changed under the revised system (it went from 12 to 11 and later went back up to 12). Most observers have acknowledged that the change to a single-winner system was a key factor, however, in stifling the growth of smaller political parties, such as the Northern Ireland Labour Party and Independent Unionists.\n\nAfter Westminster reintroduced direct rule in 1973, it restored the single transferable vote (STV) for elections to the Northern Ireland Assembly in the following year, using the same definitions of constituencies as for the Westminster Parliament. Currently in Northern Ireland, all elections use STV except those for positions in the Westminster Parliament, which follow the pattern in the rest of the United Kingdom by using \"first past the post.\"\n\nThe number of electors in a United Kingdom constituency can vary considerably, with the smallest constituency currently (2017 electoral register) having fewer than a fifth of the electors of the largest (Scotland's Na h-Eileanan an Iar (21,769 constituents) and Orkney and Shetland (34,552), compared to England's North West Cambridgeshire (93,223) and Isle of Wight (110,697)). This variation has resulted from:\n\nUnder the Sixth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies, the Coalition government planned to review and redraw the parliamentary constituency boundaries for the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. The review and redistricting was to be carried out by the four UK boundary commissions to produce a reduction from 650 to 600 seats, and more uniform sizes, such that a constituency was to have no fewer than 70,583 and no more than 80,473 electors. The process was intended to address historic malapportionment, and be complete by 2015. Preliminary reports suggesting the areas set to lose the fewest seats historically tended to vote Conservative, while other less populous and deindustrialized regions, such as Wales, which would lose a larger proportion of its seats, tending to have more Labour and Liberal Democrat voters, partially correcting the existing malapportionment. An opposition (Labour) motion to suspend the review until after the next general election was tabled in the House of Lords and a vote called in the United Kingdom House of Commons, in January 2013. The motion was passed with the help of the Liberal Democrats, going back on an election pledge. , a new review is in progress and a draft of the new boundaries has been published.\n\nThe United States, among the first with an elected representative government, eventually named the practice. Incidents precede the 1789 election of the First U.S. Congress. In 1788, Patrick Henry and his Anti-Federalist allies were in control of the Virginia House of Delegates. They drew the boundaries of Virginia's 5th congressional district in an unsuccessful attempt to keep James Madison out of the U.S. House of Representatives.\n\nThe practice of gerrymandering the borders of new states continued past the Civil War and into the late 19th century. The Republican Party used its control of Congress to secure the admission of more states in territories friendly to their party—the admission of Dakota Territory as two states instead of one being a notable example. By the rules for representation in the Electoral College, each new state carried at least three electoral votes regardless of its population.\n\nAll redistricting in the United States has been contentious because it has been controlled by political parties vying for power. As a consequence of the decennial census required by the United States Constitution, districts for members of the House of Representatives typically need to be redrawn whenever the number of members in a state changes. In many states, state legislatures redraw boundaries for state legislative districts at the same time.\n\nState legislatures have used gerrymandering along racial lines both to decrease and increase minority representation in state governments and congressional delegations. In Ohio, a conversation between Republican officials was recorded that demonstrated that redistricting was being done to aid their political candidates. Furthermore, the discussions assessed the race of voters as a factor in redistricting, on the premise that African-Americans tend to back Democratic candidates. Republicans apparently removed approximately 13,000 African-American voters from the district of Jim Raussen, a Republican candidate for the House of Representatives, in an attempt to tip the scales in what was once a competitive district for Democratic candidates.\n\nWith the Civil Rights Movement and passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, federal enforcement and protections of suffrage for all citizens were enacted. Gerrymandering for the purpose of reducing the political influence of a racial or ethnic minority group was prohibited. After the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was passed, some states created \"majority-minority\" districts to enhance minority voting strength. This practice, also called \"affirmative gerrymandering\", was supposed to redress historic discrimination and ensure that ethnic minorities would gain some seats and representation in government. In some states, bipartisan gerrymandering is the norm. State legislators from both parties sometimes agree to draw congressional district boundaries in a way that ensures the re-election of most or all incumbent representatives from both parties.\n\nRather than allowing more political influence, some states have shifted redistricting authority from politicians and given it to non-partisan redistricting commissions. The states of Washington, Arizona, and California have created standing committees for redistricting following the 2010 census. It has been argued however that in California's case, gerrymandering still continued despite this change. Rhode Island and New Jersey have developed \"ad hoc\" committees, but developed the past two decennial reapportionments tied to new census data. Florida's amendments 5 and 6, meanwhile, established rules for the creation of districts but did not mandate an independent commission.\n\nInternational election observers from the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, who were invited to observe and report on the 2004 national elections, expressed criticism of the U.S. congressional redistricting process and made a recommendation that the procedures be reviewed to ensure genuine competitiveness of Congressional election contests.\n\nIn 2015, an analyst reported that the two major parties differ in the way they redraw districts. The Democrats construct coalition districts of liberals and minorities together with conservatives which results in Democratic-leaning districts. The Republicans tend to place liberals all together in a district, conservatives in others, creating clear partisan districts.\n\nPrior to the 26 September 2010 legislative elections, gerrymandering took place via an addendum to the electoral law by the National Assembly of Venezuela. In the subsequent election, Hugo Chávez's political party, the United Socialist Party of Venezuela drew 48% of the votes overall, while the opposition parties (the Democratic Unity Roundtable and the Fatherland for All parties) drew 52% of the votes. However, due to the re-allocation of electoral legislative districts prior to the election, Chávez's United Socialist Party of Venezuela was awarded over 60% of the spots in the National Assembly (98 deputies), while 67 deputies were elected for the two opposition parties combined.\n\nIn a play on words, the use of race-conscious procedures in jury selection has been termed \"jurymandering\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28686799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28686799", "title": "Get Online Week", "text": "Get Online Week\n\nGet Online Week is an annual campaign that takes place in the UK and Europe.\n\nIn 2007, UK online centres first marked out a date in October to bring digital inclusion to national attention. Since then the campaign has grown into a week-long annual celebration, with thousands of events taking place each year in centres and more unusual locations, bringing digital skills and know-how to everyone.\n\nThe 2010 event took place on 18–24 October 2010. In 2014, Get Online week took place on 13–19 October, with 1,103 locations running 5,000 events, with 80,000 participants. In 2015, the campaign took place on 12–18 October, organised by Tinder Foundation. It claims to be the biggest UK digital inclusion campaign.\n\nIt is organised by Tinder Foundation a UK-based charity.\n\n2013 was the 7th annual October event from UK online centres. Previously 'Get online week' was called 'Get online day' but the decision was made to change the name for 2010 and stretch the campaign over a week. This was due to the natural growth of the campaign and previous feedback that a day wasn't enough time to fit in all the activities that were arranged. Typically, Get online week's many events and promotional activities now happen throughout the whole month of October.\n\nUK online centres teamed up with a range of external partners who generated huge amounts of publicity for Get online week. They include the BBC, BT, Three, Post Office, TalkTalk, Facebook, EE and MLA amongst many others. Partners also hold their own events or direct people to one of the 3,800 UK online centres which are situated around England.\n\nThe first European Get Online Day took place on 4 March 2010. It was inspired by the UK event, and it later became an annual campaign lasting a week, run by Telecentre Europe.\n\nThe European Get Online Week was inspired by the campaign with the same name ran by UK online centres (now Tinder Foundation) in the UK.\nTelecentre Europe extended it to the European level, to get new computer users online by helping them to get through the doors of their local ICT learning centres, enabling the staff to build people’s confidence to move on into a more structured learning. Since its take-off in 2010, the Get Online Week campaign has reached more than 600.000 Europeans in more than 20.000 learning centres across Europe. Thanks to the campaign, more than 100.000 people have use the Internet for the very first time.\n"}
{"id": "803610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=803610", "title": "Guildford Four and Maguire Seven", "text": "Guildford Four and Maguire Seven\n\nThe Guildford Four and the Maguire Seven were the collective names of two groups whose convictions in English courts in 1975 and 1976 for the Guildford pub bombings of 5 October 1974 were eventually quashed after long campaigns for justice. The Guildford Four were wrongly convicted of bombings carried out by the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA), and the Maguire Seven were wrongly convicted of handling explosives found during the investigation into the bombings. Both groups' convictions were eventually declared \"unsafe and unsatisfactory\" and reversed in 1989 and 1991 respectively after they had served up to 15–16 years in prison. Along with the Maguires and the Guildford Four, a number of other people faced charges against them relating to the bombings, six of them charged with murder, but these charges were dropped. \n\nNo one else was charged with the bombings, or supplying the material; three police officers were charged with conspiracy to pervert the course of justice, and found not guilty.\n\nThe Guildford Four were charged with direct involvement with the IRA attacks. They were:\nAfter their arrest, all four defendants confessed to the bombing under intense coercion by the police.\nThese statements were later retracted, but nonetheless formed the basis of the case against them. They would later be alleged to be the result of coercion by the police, ranging from intimidation to torture—including threats against family members—as well as the effects of drug withdrawal.\nConlon argues in his autobiography that a key factor in his purportedly coerced confession was the fact that strengthened anti-terrorism laws passed in the early 1970s allowed the police to hold suspects without charges for up to a week, rather than the previous limit of 48 hours, and that he might have been able to withstand the treatment he had received had the original time limit been in effect.\n\nThey were convicted on 22 October 1975 for murder and other charges, and sentenced to life imprisonment – mandatory for adults convicted of murder. Richardson, a minor at the time of the bombings, received an indeterminate \"at Her Majesty's pleasure\" sentence for murder, but a life sentence for conspiracy. Mr Justice Donaldson, who also presided over the Maguire Seven trial, expressed regret that the Four had not been charged with treason, which then still had a mandatory death penalty; although no executions had been carried out in the UK since 1964, treason still carried the death penalty until 1998. At the time, the normal practice was for judges to be consulted by the Home Secretary when considering release from a life sentence, rather than giving a tariff at trial, but the judge, believing he might be dead by the time they were released, recommended 30 years for Conlon, 35 for Armstrong and until \"great age\" for Hill.\n\nThe Guildford Four did not \"fit the bill\" of IRA involvement in terms of their lifestyles. Paddy Armstrong and Carole Richardson, an Englishwoman, lived in a squat, and were involved with drugs and petty crime. Conlon likewise asserts at several points in his autobiography that the IRA would not have taken him due to his record for shoplifting and other petty crimes, and that he had, in fact, been expelled from Fianna Éireann, an Irish republican youth organisation with strong ties to the Provisional IRA. Hill was born and raised in Belfast in a mixed-religion marriage.\n\nOn the night of the attacks, Richardson was in London seeing the band Jack the Lad at the South Bank Polytechnic. She was unable to recall this upon being arrested, but witnesses came forward. However, the prosecution put together a version of events in which she left for Guildford at high speed by car. Hill and Armstrong also presented alibis, with Hill's placing him in Southampton. A witness named Charles Burke placed Conlon in a London park, specifically on a bench where Burke was accustomed to sleeping as a tramp; however, his evidence was not presented at trial due to a miscarriage of justice forced by a trio of detectives.\n\nRobert King, a local journalist, went to Guildford police station to verify that one of the defendants \"had been up north\"; he was detained there and threatened for several hours, until he promised not to divulge his information to anyone. He remained silent for many years until he eventually told his father, and later spoke of this in an interview with the Surrey Advertiser. King was the first journalist on the scene of the bombings.\n\nThe Maguire Seven were charged with possessing nitroglycerine allegedly passed to the IRA to make bombs after the police raided the West Kilburn house of Anne Maguire on 3 December 1974.\n\nThey were tried and convicted on 4 March 1976 and received the following sentences:\nGiuseppe Conlon had travelled from Belfast to help his son, Gerry Conlon, in the Guildford Four trial. Conlon, who had troubles with his lungs for many years, died in prison in January 1980, while the other six served their sentences and were released.\n\nThe Guildford Four and the Maguire Seven sought leave to appeal their convictions immediately and were refused. Despite this, a growing body of disparate groups pressed for a re-examination of the case.\n\nIn February 1977, during the trial of the Balcombe Street ASU, the four IRA men instructed their lawyers to \"draw attention to the fact that four totally innocent people were serving massive sentences\", referring to the Guildford Four.\nDespite claims to the police that they were responsible they were never charged with these offences and the Guildford Four remained in prison for another twelve years.\n\nThe Guildford Four tried to obtain from the Home Secretary a reference to the Court of Appeal under Section 17 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 (later repealed), but were unsuccessful. In 1987, the Home Office issued a memorandum recognising that it was unlikely they were terrorists, but that this would not be sufficient evidence for appeal.\n\nFollowing the failure of the 1977 court appeal a number of 'lone voices' publicly questioned the conviction; among them David Martin in \"The Leveller\", Gavin Esler and Chris Mullin in the \"New Statesman\" and David McKittrick in the \"Belfast Telegraph\".. On 26th February 1980, BBC One Northern Ireland aired ‘’Spotlight: Giuseppe Conlon and the Bomb Factory’’ which contained an interview by Patrick Maguire and the BBC's Gavin Esler.\n\nIn 1989, detectives from Avon and Somerset Constabulary, investigating the handling of the case, found three significant pieces of evidence in relation to Surrey Police's handling of the Guildford Four and their statements.\n\nFirstly, typed notes from Patrick Armstrong's police interviews, which had been heavily edited. Deletions and additions had been made, and the notes had been rearranged. These notes, and their amendments, were consistent with hand-written and typed notes presented at the trial, which suggested that the hand-written notes were made after the interviews had been conducted. The notes presented had been described in court as contemporaneous records.\n\nSecondly, a series of manuscript notes relating to an interview with Hill, which showed that Hill's fifth statement was taken in breach of Judges' Rules, and may well have been inadmissible as evidence. The information was not made available to the DPP or the prosecution. Further, the officers involved had denied under oath that such an interview had happened.\n\nThirdly, detention records were inconsistent with the times and durations of the claimed interviews, reported by the Surrey police.\n\nAn appeal was already under way on the basis of other evidence. Lord Gifford QC represented Paul Hill, and others were represented by human rights solicitor, Gareth Peirce.\n\nThe appeal hearing had been adjourned to January 1990 at the request of the Guildford Four, but once the findings of the Somerset and Avon report were available, the hearing was resumed, with the Crown stating that they did not wish to support the convictions.\n\nThe Lord Chief Justice, Lord Lane, concluded that, regardless of the impact of the content of the material discovered by Somerset and Avon, or indeed the alibis or additional evidence the appellants wished to introduce, the level of duplicity meant that all the police evidence was suspect, and hence the case for the prosecution was unsafe.\n\nLane remarked :\n\nThe Four were released on 19 October 1989, after having their convictions quashed.\n\nPaul Hill had also been convicted of the murder of a British soldier, Brian Shaw, based on his confession while in the custody of Surrey Police. This did not fall under the ambit of the Lane appeal. He was released on bail, pending his appeal against this conviction. In 1994, Her Majesty's Court of Appeal in Belfast quashed Hill's conviction for Shaw's murder.\n\nOn 12 July 1990, the Home Secretary David Waddington published the \"Interim Report on the Maguire Case: The Inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the convictions arising out of the bomb attacks in Guildford and Woolwich in 1974\",\nwhich criticised the trial judge Mr Justice Donaldson and unearthed improprieties in the handling of scientific evidence, declaring the convictions unsound and recommending referral back to the Court of Appeal. The report \"strongly criticise[d] the decision by the prosecution at the Guildford Four's trial not to disclose to the defence a statement supporting Mr Conlon's alibi.\"\n\nThe convictions of the Maguire Seven were quashed in 1991.\n\nNeither the bombings nor the wrongful imprisonment resulted in convictions. The bombings were most likely the work of the Balcombe Street Siege gang, who claimed responsibility. They were already serving life sentences, but were released under the terms of the Good Friday Agreement. Three British police officers—Thomas Style, John Donaldson, and Vernon Attwell—were charged with conspiracy to pervert the course of justice, but each was found not guilty.\n\nOn 9 February 2005, Tony Blair, then Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, issued an apology to the families of the 11 people imprisoned for the bombings in Guildford and Woolwich, and those related to them who were still alive. He said, in part, \"I am very sorry that they were subject to such an ordeal and injustice... they deserve to be completely and publicly exonerated.\"\n\nAnne Maguire was awarded a Benemerenti medal by the Roman Catholic Church for her \"remarkable ability to forgive\" and her community work.\n\nIn 1993, Paul Hill married Courtney Kennedy, a daughter of assassinated American senator Robert F. Kennedy and a niece of assassinated president John F. Kennedy. They had a daughter in 1999, but legally separated in 2006. Hill had a televised meeting with the brother of murdered soldier Brian Shaw, who continued to accuse him. He travelled to Colombia to attend the trial of the Colombia Three.\n\nGerry Conlon's autobiography \"Proved Innocent\" was adapted into the Oscar and Bafta award-nominated 1993 drama \"In the Name of the Father\", starring Daniel Day-Lewis, Emma Thompson, and Pete Postlethwaite. The film depicts Conlon's attempt to rebuild his shattered relationship with his father, but is partly fictional – for example, Conlon never shared a cell with his father. He is reported to have settled with the government for a final payment of compensation in the region of £500,000. His mother Sarah Conlon, who had spent 16 years campaigning to have the names of her husband and son cleared and helped secure the apology, died on 20 July 2008. Conlon gave support to Tommy Sheridan in relation to the charges brought against him. Conlon had been working to have the conviction of the Craigavon Two overturned prior to his death in June 2014.\n\nPaddy Armstrong had problems with drinking and gambling. He eventually married and moved to Dublin.\n\nCarole Richardson married and had a daughter soon after her release. She kept out of the public eye, and died in 2012 aged only 55. \n\nThe autobiography of the youngest member of the Maguire Seven, Patrick Maguire, \"My Father's Watch: The Story of a Child Prisoner in 70s Britain\" was released in May 2008. It tells his story before, during, and after his imprisonment, and details its impact on his life and those of his family.\n\nGerry Conlon later joined a campaign to free the \"Craigavon Two\" – Brendan McConville and John Paul Wootton – convicted of the murder of a police officer in Northern Ireland. Conlon died at home in Belfast on 21 June 2014. His family issued a statement:  \"He brought life, love, intelligence, wit and strength to our family through its darkest hours. He helped us to survive what we were not meant to survive. We recognise that what he achieved by fighting for justice for us had a far, far greater importance – it forced the world's closed eyes to be opened to injustice; it forced unimaginable wickedness to be acknowledged; we believe it changed the course of history\".\n\nIn terms of a legal aftermath, Sir John Donaldson went on to an illustrious judicial career and became Master of the Rolls, Head of the Appeal Court. The appeal case itself for \"R v Maguire 1981\", is now the leading case for disclosure to the defence.\n\nIn November 2018 the BBC broadcast a documentary \"A Great British Injustice: The Maguire Story\", with the involvement of surviving members of the Maguire family. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "612358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=612358", "title": "Homestead principle", "text": "Homestead principle\n\nThe homestead principle is the principle by which one gains ownership of an unowned natural resource by performing an act of original appropriation. Appropriation could be enacted by putting an unowned resource to active use (as with using it to produce a product), joining it with previously acquired property or by marking it as owned (as with livestock branding). Proponents of intellectual property hold that ideas can also be homesteaded by originally creating a virtual or tangible representation of them. Others however argue that since tangible manifestations of a single idea will be present in many places, including within the minds of people, this precludes their being owned in most or all cases. Homesteading is one of the foundations of Rothbardian anarcho-capitalism.\n\nEnlightenment philosopher John Locke in his work \"Second Treatise of Government\", published in 1690 advocated the Lockean proviso, which allows for homesteading. Locke famously sees the \"mixing of labour\" with land as the source of ownership via homesteading. He writes:\nHowever, Locke held that individuals have a right to homestead private property from nature only so long as \"there is enough, and as good, left in common for others\". The Lockean proviso maintains that appropriation of unowned resources is a diminution of the rights of others to it, and would only be acceptable if it does not make anyone else worse off.\n\nLibertarian philosopher and Austrian School economist Murray Rothbard argues that homesteading includes all the rights needed to engage in the homesteading action, including nuisance and pollution rights. He writes:\nRothbard interprets the physical extent to which a homesteading act establishes ownership in terms of the relevant \"technological unit\", which is the minimal amount necessary for the practical use of the resource. He writes:\nHungarian political philosopher Anthony de Jasay argued that a homesteader, having a claim prior to any other, must be prima facie considered the owner of the resource, in accordance with the principle \"let ownership stand\". He writes:\n\nSimilarly to de-Jasay, Hans Hermann Hoppe argues that the denial of the homesteading rule entails a performative contradiction. That is because honest argumentation must presuppose an intersubjectively ascertainable norm (i.e. justifiable), and all norms not relying on the original establishment of a physical (and therefore evident) link to the owner are subjective in nature, and therefore contradict the presuppositions of argumentation. He writes:\nAyn Rand has not elaborated on the characteristics of homesteading, but had expressed support for compatible laws, such as favourably citing the Homestead Act (1862). She writes:\nLinda and Morris Tannehill argue in \"The Market for Liberty\" that physically claiming the land (e.g. by fencing it in or prominently staking it out) should be enough to obtain good title:\n\nCommon law provides the ad coelum doctrine by which landlords own everything below and above the land, up to the sky and below the earth to its core, with the exception of volatile minerals such as natural gas. The rules governing what constitutes homesteading were not specified by common law but by the local statutory law. Common law also recognizes the concept of adverse possession (\"squatters' rights\"). Rothbard criticized this doctrine as incompatible with his own homestead principle, as a literal application prevent aircraft from traveling over someone's land. Further:\n\nIn the 19th century, a number of governments formalized the homestead principle by passing laws that would grant property of land plots of certain standardized size to people who would settle on it and \"improve\" it in certain ways (typically, built their residence and started to farm at least a certain fraction of the land). Typically, such laws would apply to territories recently taken from their indigenous inhabitants, and which the state would want to have populated by farmers. Examples:\n\n"}
{"id": "14631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14631", "title": "Immanuel Kant", "text": "Immanuel Kant\n\nImmanuel Kant (; ; 22 April 1724 – 12 February 1804) was a German philosopher who is a central figure in modern philosophy. In his doctrine of transcendental idealism, he argued that space, time and causation are mere sensibilities; \"things-in-themselves\" exist, but their nature is unknowable. In his view, the mind shapes and structures experience, with all human experience sharing certain structural features. He drew a parallel to the Copernican revolution in his proposition that worldly objects can be intuited \"a priori\" (\"beforehand\"), and that intuition is therefore independent from objective reality. Kant believed that reason is the source of morality, and that aesthetics arise from a faculty of disinterested judgment. Kant's views continue to have a major influence on contemporary philosophy, especially the fields of epistemology, ethics, political theory, and post-modern aesthetics.\n\nIn one of Kant's major works, the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" (1781), he attempted to explain the relationship between reason and human experience and to move beyond the failures of traditional philosophy and metaphysics. Kant wanted to put an end to an era of futile and speculative theories of human experience, while resisting the skepticism of thinkers such as David Hume. Kant regarded himself as showing the way past the impasse between rationalists and empiricists which philosophy had led to, and is widely held to have synthesized both traditions in his thought.\n\nKant was an exponent of the idea that perpetual peace could be secured through universal democracy and international cooperation. He believed that this would be the eventual outcome of universal history, although it is not rationally planned. The nature of Kant's religious ideas continues to be the subject of philosophical dispute, with viewpoints ranging from the impression that he was an initial advocate of atheism who at some point developed an ontological argument for God, to more critical treatments epitomized by Nietzsche, who claimed that Kant had \"theologian blood\" and was merely a sophisticated apologist for traditional Christian faith.\n\nKant published other important works on ethics, religion, law, aesthetics, astronomy, and history. These include the \"Universal Natural History\" (1755), the \"Critique of Practical Reason\" (1788), the \"Metaphysics of Morals\" (1797), and the \"Critique of Judgment\" (1790), which looks at aesthetics and teleology.\n\nKant's mother, Anna Regina Reuter (1697–1737), was born in Königsberg (since 1946 the city of Kaliningrad, Kaliningrad Oblast, Russia) to a father from Nuremberg. (Her surname is sometimes erroneously given as Porter.) Kant's father, Johann Georg Kant (1682–1746), was a German harness maker from Memel, at the time Prussia's most northeastern city (now Klaipėda, Lithuania). Immanuel Kant believed that his paternal grandfather Hans Kant was of Scottish origin. While scholars of Kant's life long accepted the claim, there is no evidence that Kant's paternal line was Scottish; it is more likely that the Kants got their name from the village of Kantwaggen (today part of Priekulė) and were of Curonian origin. Kant was the fourth of nine children (four of whom reached adulthood).\n\nKant was born on April 22, 1724 into a Prussian German family of Lutheran Protestant faith in Königsberg, East Prussia. Baptized 'Emanuel', he later changed his name to 'Immanuel' after learning Hebrew. He was brought up in a Pietist household that stressed religious devotion, humility, and a literal interpretation of the Bible. His education was strict, punitive and disciplinary, and focused on Latin and religious instruction over mathematics and science. Kant maintained Christian ideals for some time, but struggled to reconcile the faith with his belief in science. In his \"Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals\", he reveals a belief in immortality as the necessary condition of humanity's approach to the highest morality possible. However, as Kant was skeptical about some of the arguments used prior to him in defence of theism and maintained that human understanding is limited and can never attain knowledge about God or the soul, various commentators have labelled him a philosophical agnostic.\n\nCommon myths about Kant's personal mannerisms are listed, explained, and refuted in Goldthwait's introduction to his translation of \"Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime\". It is often held that Kant lived a very strict and disciplined life, leading to an oft-repeated story that neighbors would set their clocks by his daily walks. He never married, but seemed to have a rewarding social life — he was a popular teacher and a modestly successful author even before starting on his major philosophical works. He had a circle of friends with whom he frequently met, among them Joseph Green, an English merchant in Königsberg.\n\nA common myth is that Kant never traveled more than from Königsberg his whole life. In fact, between 1750 and 1754 he worked as a tutor (\"Hauslehrer\") in Judtschen (now Veselovka, Russia, approximately 20 km) and in Groß-Arnsdorf (now Jarnołtowo near Morąg (German: Mohrungen), Poland, approximately 145 km).\n\nKant showed a great aptitude for study at an early age. He first attended the Collegium Fridericianum from which he graduated at the end of the summer of 1740. In 1740, aged 16, he enrolled at the University of Königsberg, where he spent his whole career. He studied the philosophy of Gottfried Leibniz and Christian Wolff under Martin Knutzen (Associate Professor of Logic and Metaphysics from 1734 until his death in 1751), a rationalist who was also familiar with developments in British philosophy and science and introduced Kant to the new mathematical physics of Isaac Newton. Knutzen dissuaded Kant from the theory of pre-established harmony, which he regarded as \"the pillow for the lazy mind\". He also dissuaded Kant from idealism, the idea that reality is purely mental, which most philosophers in the 18th century regarded in a negative light. The theory of transcendental idealism that Kant later included in the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" was developed partially in opposition to traditional idealism.\n\nHis father's stroke and subsequent death in 1746 interrupted his studies. Kant left Königsberg shortly after August 1748—he would return there in August 1754. He became a private tutor in the towns surrounding Königsberg, but continued his scholarly research. In 1749, he published his first philosophical work, \"Thoughts on the True Estimation of Living Forces\" (written in 1745–47).\n\nKant is best known for his work in the philosophy of ethics and metaphysics, but he made significant contributions to other disciplines. He won the Berlin Academy Prize in 1754 for his argument that the Moon's gravity would eventually cause its tidal locking to coincide with the Earth's rotation. The next year, he expanded this reasoning to the formation and evolution of the Solar System in his \"Universal Natural History and Theory of the Heavens\".\nIn the \"Universal Natural History\", Kant laid out the Nebular hypothesis, in which he deduced that the Solar System had formed from a large cloud of gas, a nebula. Kant also correctly deduced that the Milky Way was a large disk of stars, which he theorized formed from a much larger spinning gas cloud. He further suggested that other distant \"nebulae\" might be other galaxies. These postulations opened new horizons for astronomy, for the first time extending it beyond the Solar System to galactic and intergalactic realms. According to Thomas Huxley (1867), Kant also made contributions to geology in his \"Universal Natural History\", and according to Lord Kelvin (1897), he made contributions useful to mathematicians and astronomers.\n\nFrom then on, Kant turned increasingly to philosophical issues, although he continued to write on the sciences throughout his life. In the early 1760s, Kant produced a series of important works in philosophy. \"The False Subtlety of the Four Syllogistic Figures\", a work in logic, was published in 1762. Two more works appeared the following year: \"Attempt to Introduce the Concept of Negative Magnitudes into Philosophy\" and \"The Only Possible Argument in Support of a Demonstration of the Existence of God\". In 1764, Kant wrote \"Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime\" and then was second to Moses Mendelssohn in a Berlin Academy prize competition with his \"Inquiry Concerning the Distinctness of the Principles of Natural Theology and Morality\" (often referred to as \"The Prize Essay\"). In 1766 Kant wrote \"Dreams of a Spirit-Seer\" which dealt with the writings of Emanuel Swedenborg. The exact influence of Swedenborg on Kant, as well as the extent of Kant's belief in mysticism according to \"Dreams of a Spirit-Seer\", remain controversial. On 31 March 1770, aged 45, Kant was finally appointed Full Professor of Logic and Metaphysics (\"Professor Ordinarius der Logic und Metaphysic\") at the University of Königsberg. In defense of this appointment, Kant wrote his inaugural dissertation (\"Inaugural-Dissertation\") \"De Mundi Sensibilis atque Intelligibilis Forma et Principiis\" (\"On the Form and Principles of the Sensible and the Intelligible World)\". This work saw the emergence of several central themes of his mature work, including the distinction between the faculties of intellectual thought and sensible receptivity. To miss this distinction would mean to commit the error of subreption, and, as he says in the last chapter of the dissertation, only in avoiding this error does metaphysics flourish.\n\nThe issue that vexed Kant was central to what 20th-century scholars called \"the philosophy of mind\". The flowering of the natural sciences had led to an understanding of how data reaches the brain. Sunlight falling on an object is reflected from its surface in a way that maps the surface features (color, texture, etc.). The reflected light reaches the human eye, passes through the cornea, is focused by the lens onto the retina where it forms an image similar to that formed by light passing through a pinhole into a camera obscura. The retinal cells send impulses through the optic nerve and then they form a mapping in the brain of the visual features of the object. The interior mapping is not the exterior object, and our belief that there is a meaningful relationship between the object and the mapping in the brain depends on a chain of reasoning that is not fully grounded. But the uncertainty aroused by these considerations, by optical illusions, misperceptions, delusions, etc., are not the end of the problems.\n\nKant saw that the mind could not function as an empty container that simply receives data from outside. Something must be giving order to the incoming data. Images of external objects must be kept in the same sequence in which they were received. This ordering occurs through the mind's intuition of time. The same considerations apply to the mind's function of constituting space for ordering mappings of visual and tactile signals arriving via the already described chains of physical causation.\n\nIt is often claimed that Kant was a late developer, that he only became an important philosopher in his mid-50s after rejecting his earlier views. While it is true that Kant wrote his greatest works relatively late in life, there is a tendency to underestimate the value of his earlier works. Recent Kant scholarship has devoted more attention to these \"pre-critical\" writings and has recognized a degree of continuity with his mature work.\n\nAt age 46, Kant was an established scholar and an increasingly influential philosopher, and much was expected of him.\n\nIn correspondence with his ex-student and friend Markus Herz, Kant admitted that, in the inaugural dissertation, he had failed to account for the relation between our sensible and intellectual faculties. He needed to explain how we combine what is known as sensory knowledge with the other type of knowledgei.e. reasoned knowledgethese two being related but having very different processes.\n\nKant also credited David Hume with awakening him from a \"dogmatic slumber\". Hume had stated that experience consists only of sequences of feelings, images or sounds. Ideas such as \"cause\", goodness, or objects were not evident in experience, so why do we believe in the reality of these? Kant felt that reason could remove this skepticism, and he set himself to solving these problems. He did not publish any work in philosophy for the next 11 years.\n\nAlthough fond of company and conversation with others, Kant isolated himself, and resisted friends' attempts to bring him out of his isolation. It has been noted that in 1778, in response to one of these offers by a former pupil, Kant wrote:\nWhen Kant emerged from his silence in 1781, the result was the \"Critique of Pure Reason\". Although now uniformly recognized as one of the greatest works in the history of philosophy, this \"Critique\" was largely ignored upon its initial publication. The book was long, over 800 pages in the original German edition, and written in a convoluted style. It received few reviews, and these granted it no significance. Kant's former student, Johann Gottfried Herder criticized it for placing reason as an entity worthy of criticism instead of considering the process of reasoning within the context of language and one's entire personality. Similar to Christian Garve and Johann Georg Heinrich Feder, he rejected Kant's position that space and time possessed a form that could be analyzed. Additionally, Garve and Feder also faulted Kant's Critique for not explaining differences in perception of sensations. Its density made it, as Herder said in a letter to Johann Georg Hamann, a \"tough nut to crack\", obscured by \"all this heavy gossamer\". Its reception stood in stark contrast to the praise Kant had received for earlier works, such as his \"Prize Essay\" and shorter works that preceded the first Critique. These well-received and readable tracts include one on the earthquake in Lisbon that was so popular that it was sold by the page. Prior to the change in course documented in the first Critique, his books sold well, and by the time he published \"Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime\" in 1764 he had become a notable popular author. Kant was disappointed with the first Critique's reception. Recognizing the need to clarify the original treatise, Kant wrote the \"Prolegomena to any Future Metaphysics\" in 1783 as a summary of its main views. Shortly thereafter, Kant's friend Johann Friedrich Schultz (1739–1805) (professor of mathematics) published \"Erläuterungen über des Herrn Professor Kant Critik der reinen Vernunft\" (Königsberg, 1784), which was a brief but very accurate commentary on Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\".\n\nKant's reputation gradually rose through the latter portion of the 1780s, sparked by a series of important works: the 1784 essay, \"Answer to the Question: What is Enlightenment?\"; 1785's \"Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals\" (his first work on moral philosophy); and, from 1786, \"Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science.\" But Kant's fame ultimately arrived from an unexpected source. In 1786, Karl Leonhard Reinhold published a series of public letters on Kantian philosophy. In these letters, Reinhold framed Kant's philosophy as a response to the central intellectual controversy of the era: the Pantheism Dispute. Friedrich Jacobi had accused the recently deceased Gotthold Ephraim Lessing (a distinguished dramatist and philosophical essayist) of Spinozism. Such a charge, tantamount to atheism, was vigorously denied by Lessing's friend Moses Mendelssohn, leading to a bitter public dispute among partisans. The controversy gradually escalated into a debate about the values of the Enlightenment and the value of reason.\n\nReinhold maintained in his letters that Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\" could settle this dispute by defending the authority and bounds of reason. Reinhold's letters were widely read and made Kant the most famous philosopher of his era.\n\nKant published a second edition of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" (\"Kritik der reinen Vernunft\") in 1787, heavily revising the first parts of the book. Most of his subsequent work focused on other areas of philosophy. He continued to develop his moral philosophy, notably in 1788's \"Critique of Practical Reason\" (known as the second \"Critique\") and 1797's \"Metaphysics of Morals\". The 1790 \"Critique of Judgment\" (the third \"Critique\") applied the Kantian system to aesthetics and teleology. It was in this critique where Kant wrote one of his most popular statements, \"it is absurd to hope that another Newton will arise in the future who will make comprehensible to us the production of a blade of grass according to natural laws\".\n\nIn 1792, Kant's attempt to publish the Second of the four Pieces of \"Religion within the Bounds of Bare Reason\", in the journal \"Berlinische Monatsschrift\", met with opposition from the King's censorship commission, which had been established that same year in the context of the French Revolution. Kant then arranged to have all four pieces published as a book, routing it through the philosophy department at the University of Jena to avoid the need for theological censorship. This insubordination earned him a now famous reprimand from the King. When he nevertheless published a second edition in 1794, the censor was so irate that he arranged for a royal order that required Kant never to publish or even speak publicly about religion. Kant then published his response to the King's reprimand and explained himself, in the preface of \"The Conflict of the Faculties\".\nHe also wrote a number of semi-popular essays on history, religion, politics and other topics. These works were well received by Kant's contemporaries and confirmed his preeminent status in 18th-century philosophy. There were several journals devoted solely to defending and criticizing Kantian philosophy. Despite his success, philosophical trends were moving in another direction. Many of Kant's most important disciples and followers (including Reinhold, Beck and Fichte) transformed the Kantian position into increasingly radical forms of idealism. The progressive stages of revision of Kant's teachings marked the emergence of German Idealism. Kant opposed these developments and publicly denounced Fichte in an open letter in 1799. It was one of his final acts expounding a stance on philosophical questions. In 1800, a student of Kant named Gottlob Benjamin Jäsche (1762–1842) published a manual of logic for teachers called \"Logik\", which he had prepared at Kant's request. Jäsche prepared the \"Logik\" using a copy of a textbook in logic by Georg Friedrich Meier entitled \"Auszug aus der Vernunftlehre\", in which Kant had written copious notes and annotations. The \"Logik\" has been considered of fundamental importance to Kant's philosophy, and the understanding of it. The great 19th-century logician Charles Sanders Peirce remarked, in an incomplete review of Thomas Kingsmill Abbott's English translation of the introduction to \"Logik\", that \"Kant's whole philosophy turns upon his logic.\" Also, Robert Schirokauer Hartman and Wolfgang Schwarz, wrote in the translators' introduction to their English translation of the \"Logik\", \"Its importance lies not only in its significance for the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", the second part of which is a restatement of fundamental tenets of the \"Logic\", but in its position within the whole of Kant's work.\"\n\nKant's health, long poor, worsened and he died at Königsberg on 12 February 1804, uttering \"\"Es ist gut\" (It is good)\" before expiring. His unfinished final work was published as \"Opus Postumum\".\n\nKant wrote a book discussing his theory of virtue in terms of independence which he believed was \"a viable modern alternative to more familiar Greek views about virtue\". This book is often criticized for its hostile tone and for not articulating his thoughts about autocracy comprehensibly. In the self-governance model of Aristotelian virtue, the non-rational part of the soul can be made to listen to reason through training. Although Kantian self-governance appears to involve \"a rational crackdown on appetites and emotions\" with lack of harmony between reason and emotion, Kantian virtue denies requiring \"self-conquest, self-suppression, or self-silencing\". They dispute that \"the self-mastery constitutive of virtue is ultimately mastery over our tendency of will to give priority to appetite or emotion unregulated by duty, it does not require extirpating, suppressing, or silencing sensibility in general\".\n\nIn Kant's essay \"Answering the Question: What is Enlightenment?\",\nKant defined the Enlightenment as an age shaped by the Latin motto \"Sapere aude\" (\"Dare to be wise\"). Kant maintained that one ought to think autonomously, free of the dictates of external authority. His work reconciled many of the differences between the rationalist and empiricist traditions of the 18th century. He had a decisive impact on the Romantic and German Idealist philosophies of the 19th century. His work has also been a starting point for many 20th century philosophers.\n\nKant asserted that, because of the limitations of argumentation in the absence of irrefutable evidence, no one could really know whether there is a God and an afterlife or not. For the sake of morality and as a ground for reason, Kant asserted, people are justified in believing in God, even though they could never know God's presence empirically. He explained:\n\nThe sense of an enlightened approach and the critical method required that \"If one cannot prove that a thing \"is,\" he may try to prove that it is \"not.\" If he fails to do either (as often occurs), he may still ask whether it is in his \"interest\" to \"accept\" one or the other of the alternatives hypothetically, from the theoretical or the practical point of view. Hence the question no longer is as to whether perpetual peace is a real thing or not a real thing, or as to whether we may not be deceiving ourselves when we adopt the former alternative, but we must \"act\" on the supposition of its being real.\" The presupposition of God, soul, and freedom was then a practical concern, for \"Morality, by itself, constitutes a system, but happiness does not, unless it is distributed in exact proportion to morality. This, however, is possible in an intelligible world only under a wise author and ruler. Reason compels us to admit such a ruler, together with life in such a world, which we must consider as future life, or else all moral laws are to be considered as idle dreams... .\"\n\nKant drew a parallel between the Copernican revolution and the epistemology of his new transcendental philosophy. He never used the \"Copernican revolution\" phrase about himself, but it has often been applied to his work by others.\n\nKant's Copernican revolution involved two interconnected foundations of his \"critical philosophy\":\n\nThese teachings placed the active, rational human subject at the center of the cognitive and moral worlds. Kant argued that the rational order of the world as known by science was not just the accidental accumulation of sense perceptions.\n\nConceptual unification and integration is carried out by the mind through concepts or the \"categories of the understanding\" operating on the perceptual manifold within space and time. The latter are not concepts, but are forms of sensibility that are \"a priori\" necessary conditions for any possible experience. Thus the objective order of nature and the causal necessity that operates within it depend on the mind's processes, the product of the rule-based activity that Kant called, \"synthesis.\" There is much discussion among Kant scholars about the correct interpretation of this train of thought.\n\nThe 'two-world' interpretation regards Kant's position as a statement of epistemological limitation, that we are not able to transcend the bounds of our own mind, meaning that we cannot access the \"thing-in-itself\". However, Kant also speaks of the thing in itself or \"transcendental object\" as a product of the (human) understanding as it attempts to conceive of objects in abstraction from the conditions of sensibility. Following this line of thought, some interpreters have argued that the thing in itself does not represent a separate ontological domain but simply a way of considering objects by means of the understanding alonethis is known as the two-aspect view.\n\nThe notion of the \"thing in itself\" was much discussed by philosophers after Kant. It was argued that because the \"thing in itself\" was unknowable, its existence must not be assumed. Rather than arbitrarily switching to an account that was ungrounded in anything supposed to be the \"real,\" as did the German Idealists, another group arose to ask how our (presumably reliable) accounts of a coherent and rule-abiding universe were actually grounded. This new kind of philosophy became known as Phenomenology, and its founder was Edmund Husserl.\n\nWith regard to morality, Kant argued that the source of the good lies not in anything outside the human subject, either in nature or given by God, but rather is only the good will itself. A good will is one that acts from duty in accordance with the universal moral law that the autonomous human being freely gives itself. This law obliges one to treat humanityunderstood as rational agency, and represented through oneself as well as othersas an end in itself rather than (merely) as means to other ends the individual might hold. This necessitates practical self-reflection in which we universalize our reasons.\n\nThese ideas have largely framed or influenced all subsequent philosophical discussion and analysis. The specifics of Kant's account generated immediate and lasting controversy. Nevertheless, his thesesthat the mind itself necessarily makes a constitutive contribution to its knowledge, that this contribution is transcendental rather than psychological, that philosophy involves self-critical activity, that morality is rooted in human freedom, and that to act autonomously is to act according to rational moral principleshave all had a lasting effect on subsequent philosophy.\n\nKant defines his theory of perception in his influential 1781 work the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", which has often been cited as the most significant volume of metaphysics and epistemology in modern philosophy. Kant maintains that our understanding of the external world had its foundations not merely in experience, but in both experience and \"a priori\" concepts, thus offering a \"non-empiricist critique of rationalist philosophy\", which is what has been referred to as his Copernican revolution.\n\nFirstly, Kant distinguishes between analytic and synthetic propositions:\n\n\nAn analytic proposition is true by nature of the meaning of the words in the sentence — we require no further knowledge than a grasp of the language to understand this proposition. On the other hand, a synthetic statement is one that tells us something about the world. The truth or falsehood of synthetic statements derives from something outside their linguistic content. In this instance, weight is not a necessary predicate of the body; until we are told the heaviness of the body we do not know that it has weight. In this case, experience of the body is required before its heaviness becomes clear. Before Kant's first Critique, empiricists (cf. Hume) and rationalists (cf. Leibniz) assumed that all synthetic statements required experience to be known.\n\nKant contests this assumption by claiming that elementary mathematics, like arithmetic, is synthetic \"a priori\", in that its statements provide new knowledge not derived from experience. This becomes part of his over-all argument for transcendental idealism. That is, he argues that the possibility of experience depends on certain necessary conditions — which he calls \"a priori\" forms — and that these conditions structure and hold true of the world of experience. His main claims in the \"Transcendental Aesthetic\" are that mathematic judgments are synthetic \"a priori\" and that space and time are not derived from experience but rather are its preconditions.\n\nOnce we have grasped the functions of basic arithmetic, we do not need empirical experience to know that 100 + 100 = 200, and so it appears that arithmetic is analytic. However, that it is analytic can be disproved by considering the calculation 5 + 7 = 12: there is nothing in the numbers 5 and 7 by which the number 12 can be inferred. Thus \"5 + 7\" and \"the cube root of 1,728\" or \"12\" are not analytic because their reference is the same but their sense is not — the statement \"5 + 7 = 12\" tells us something new about the world. It is self-evident, and undeniably \"a priori\", but at the same time it is synthetic. Thus Kant proved that a proposition can be synthetic and a priori.\n\nKant asserts that experience is based on the perception of external objects and \"a priori\" knowledge. The external world, he writes, provides those things that we sense. But our mind processes this information and gives it order, allowing us to comprehend it. Our mind supplies the conditions of space and time to experience objects. According to the \"transcendental unity of apperception\", the concepts of the mind (Understanding) and perceptions or intuitions that garner information from phenomena (Sensibility) are synthesized by comprehension. Without concepts, perceptions are nondescript; without perceptions, concepts are meaningless — thus the famous statement, \"Thoughts without content are empty, intuitions (perceptions) without concepts are blind.\"\n\nKant also claims that an external environment is necessary for the establishment of the self. Although Kant would want to argue that there is no empirical way of observing the self, we can see the logical necessity of the self when we observe that we can have different perceptions of the external environment over time. By uniting these general representations into one global representation, we can see how a transcendental self emerges. \"I am therefore conscious of the identical self in regard to the manifold of the representations that are given to me in an intuition because I call them all together my representations.\"\n\nKant deemed it obvious that we have some objective knowledge of the world, such as, say, Newtonian physics. But this knowledge relies on synthetic, \"a priori\" laws of nature, like causality and substance. How is this possible? Kant's solution was that the subject must supply laws that make experience of objects possible, and that these laws are synthetic, \"a priori\" laws of nature that apply to all objects before we experience them. To deduce all these laws, Kant examined experience in general, dissecting in it what is supplied by the mind from what is supplied by the given intuitions. This is commonly called a transcendental deduction.\n\nTo begin with, Kant's distinction between the \"a posteriori\" being contingent and particular knowledge, and the \"a priori\" being universal and necessary knowledge, must be kept in mind. If we merely connect two intuitions together in a perceiving subject, the knowledge is always subjective because it is derived \"a posteriori,\" when what is desired is for the knowledge to be objective, that is, for the two intuitions to refer to the object and hold good of it for anyone at any time, not just the perceiving subject in its current condition. What else is equivalent to objective knowledge besides the \"a priori,\" (universal and necessary knowledge)? Before knowledge can be objective, it must be incorporated under an \"a priori\" category of \"understanding\".\n\nFor example, if a subject says, \"The sun shines on the stone; the stone grows warm,\" all he perceives are phenomena. His judgment is contingent and holds no necessity. But if he says, \"The sunshine causes the stone to warm,\" he subsumes the perception under the category of causality, which is not found in the perception, and necessarily synthesizes the concept sunshine with the concept heat, producing a necessarily universally true judgment.\n\nTo explain the categories in more detail, they are the preconditions of the construction of objects in the mind. Indeed, to even think of the sun and stone presupposes the category of subsistence, that is, substance. For the categories synthesize the random data of the sensory manifold into intelligible objects. This means that the categories are also the most abstract things one can say of any object whatsoever, and hence one can have an \"a priori\" cognition of the totality of all objects of experience if one can list all of them. To do so, Kant formulates another transcendental deduction.\n\nJudgments are, for Kant, the preconditions of any thought. Man thinks via judgments, so all possible judgments must be listed and the perceptions connected within them put aside, so as to make it possible to examine the moments when \"the understanding\" is engaged in constructing judgments. For the categories are equivalent to these moments, in that they are concepts of intuitions in general, so far as they are determined by these moments universally and necessarily. Thus by listing all the moments, one can deduce from them all of the categories.\n\nOne may now ask: How many possible judgments are there? Kant believed that all the possible propositions within Aristotle's syllogistic logic are equivalent to all possible judgments, and that all the logical operators within the propositions are equivalent to the moments of the understanding within judgments. Thus he listed Aristotle's system in four groups of three: quantity (universal, particular, singular), quality (affirmative, negative, infinite), relation (categorical, hypothetical, disjunctive) and modality (problematic, assertoric, apodeictic). The parallelism with Kant's categories is obvious: quantity (unity, plurality, totality), quality (reality, negation, limitation), relation (substance, cause, community) and modality (possibility, existence, necessity).\n\nThe fundamental building blocks of experience, i.e. objective knowledge, are now in place. First there is the sensibility, which supplies the mind with intuitions, and then there is the understanding, which produces judgments of these intuitions and can subsume them under categories. These categories lift the intuitions up out of the subject's current state of consciousness and place them within consciousness in general, producing universally necessary knowledge. For the categories are innate in any rational being, so any intuition thought within a category in one mind is necessarily subsumed and understood identically in any mind. In other words, we filter what we see and hear.\n\nKant ran into a problem with his theory that the mind plays a part in producing objective knowledge. Intuitions and categories are entirely disparate, so how can they interact? Kant's solution is the (transcendental) schema: a priori principles by which the transcendental imagination connects concepts with intuitions through time. All the principles are temporally bound, for if a concept is purely a priori, as the categories are, then they must apply for all times. Hence there are principles such as \"substance is that which endures through time\", and \"the cause must always be prior to the effect\".\n\nKant developed his moral philosophy in three works: \"Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals\" (1785), \"Critique of Practical Reason\" (1788), and \"Metaphysics of Morals\" (1797).\n\nIn \"Groundwork\", Kant' tries to convert our everyday, obvious, rational knowledge of morality into philosophical knowledge. The latter two works used \"practical reason\", which is based only on things about which reason can tell us, and not deriving any principles from experience, to reach conclusions which can be applied to the world of experience (in the second part of \"The Metaphysic of Morals\").\n\nKant is known for his theory that there is a single moral obligation, which he called the \"Categorical Imperative\", and is derived from the concept of duty. Kant defines the demands of moral law as \"categorical imperatives\". Categorical imperatives are principles that are intrinsically valid; they are good in and of themselves; they must be obeyed in all situations and circumstances, if our behavior is to observe the moral law. The Categorical Imperative provides a test against which moral statements can be assessed. Kant also stated that the moral means and ends can be applied to the categorical imperative, that rational beings can pursue certain \"ends\" using the appropriate \"means\". Ends based on physical needs or wants create hypothetical imperatives. The categorical imperative can only be based on something that is an \"end in itself\", that is, an end that is not a means to some other need, desire, or purpose. Kant believed that the moral law is a principle of reason itself, and is not based on contingent facts about the world, such as what would make us happy, but to act on the moral law which has no other motive than \"worthiness of being happy\". Accordingly, he believed that moral obligation applies only to rational agents.\n\nUnlike a hypothetical imperative, a categorical imperative is an unconditional obligation; it has the force of an obligation regardless of our will or desires In \"Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals\" (1785) Kant enumerated three formulations of the categorical imperative that he believed to be roughly equivalent. In the same book, Kant stated:\n\nAccording to Kant, one cannot make exceptions for oneself. The philosophical maxim on which one acts should always be considered to be a universal law without exception. One cannot allow oneself to do a particular action unless one thinks it appropriate that the reason for the action should become a universal law. For example, one should not steal, however dire the circumstancesbecause, by permitting oneself to steal, one makes stealing a universally acceptable act. This is the first formulation of the categorical imperative, often known as the universalizability principle.\n\nKant believed that, if an action is not done with the motive of duty, then it is without moral value. He thought that every action should have pure intention behind it; otherwise, it is meaningless. The final result is not the most important aspect of an action; rather, how the person feels while carrying out the action is the time when value is attached to the result.\n\nIn \"Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals\", Kant also posited the \"counter-utilitarian idea that there is a difference between preferences and values, and that considerations of individual rights temper calculations of aggregate utility\", a concept that is an axiom in economics:\n\nEverything has either a \"price\" or a \"dignity\". Whatever has a price can be replaced by something else as its equivalent; on the other hand, whatever is above all price, and therefore admits of no equivalent, has a dignity. But that which constitutes the condition under which alone something can be an end in itself does not have mere relative worth, i.e., price, but an intrinsic worth, i.e., a dignity. (p. 53, italics in original).\n\nA phrase quoted by Kant, which is used to summarize the counter-utilitarian nature of his moral philosophy, is \"Fiat justitia, pereat mundus\", (\"Let justice be done, though the world perish\"), which he translates loosely as \"Let justice reign even if all the rascals in the world should perish from it\". This appears in his 1795 \"\" (\"\"), Appendix 1.\n\nThe first formulation (Formula of Universal Law) of the moral imperative \"requires that the maxims be chosen as though they should hold as universal laws of nature\" . This formulation in principle has as its supreme law the creed \"Always act according to that maxim whose universality as a law you can at the same time will\" and is the \"only condition under which a will can never come into conflict with itself [...]\"\n\nOne interpretation of the first formulation is called the \"universalizability test\". An agent's maxim, according to Kant, is his \"subjective principle of human actions\": that is, what the agent believes is his reason to act. The universalisability test has five steps:\n\n\nThe second formulation (or Formula of the End in Itself) holds that \"the rational being, as by its nature an end and thus as an end in itself, must serve in every maxim as the condition restricting all merely relative and arbitrary ends\". The principle dictates that you \"[a]ct with reference to every rational being (whether yourself or another) so that it is an end in itself in your maxim\", meaning that the rational being is \"the basis of all maxims of action\" and \"must be treated never as a mere means but as the supreme limiting condition in the use of all means, i.e., as an end at the same time\".\n\nThe third formulation (i.e. Formula of Autonomy) is a synthesis of the first two and is the basis for the \"complete determination of all maxims\". It states \"that all maxims which stem from autonomous legislation ought to harmonize with a possible realm of ends as with a realm of nature\".\n\nIn principle, \"So act as if your maxims should serve at the same time as the universal law (of all rational beings)\", meaning that we should so act that we may think of ourselves as \"a member in the universal realm of ends\", legislating universal laws through our maxims (that is, a universal code of conduct), in a \"possible realm of ends\". No one may elevate themselves above the universal law, therefore it is one's duty to follow the maxim(s).\n\nCommentators, starting in the 20th century, have tended to see Kant as having a strained relationship with religion, though this was not the prevalent view in the 19th century. Karl Leonhard Reinhold, whose letters first made Kant famous, wrote \"I believe that I may infer without reservation that the interest of religion, and of Christianity in particular, accords completely with the result of the Critique of Reason.\". Johann Schultz, who wrote one of the first Kant commentaries, wrote \"And does not this system itself cohere most splendidly with the Christian religion? Do not the divinity and beneficence of the latter become all the more evident?\" This view continued throughout the 19th century, as noted by Friedrich Nietzsche, who said \"Kant's success is merely a theologian's success.\" The reason for these views was Kant's moral theology, and the widespread belief that his philosophy was the great antithesis to Spinozism, which had been convulsing the European academy for much of the 18th century. Spinozism was widely seen as the cause of the Pantheism controversy, and as a form of sophisticated pantheism or even atheism. As Kant's philosophy disregarded the possibility of arguing for God through pure reason alone, for the same reasons it also disregarded the possibility of arguing against God through pure reason alone. This, coupled with his moral philosophy (his argument that the existence of morality is a rational reason why God and an afterlife do and must exist), was the reason he was seen by many, at least through the end of the 19th century, as a great defender of religion in general and Christianity in particular.\n\nKant articulates his strongest criticisms of the organization and practices of religious organizations to those that encourage what he sees as a religion of counterfeit service to God. Among the major targets of his criticism are external ritual, superstition and a hierarchical church order. He sees these as efforts to make oneself pleasing to God in ways other than conscientious adherence to the principle of moral rightness in choosing and acting upon one's maxims. Kant's criticisms on these matters, along with his rejection of certain theoretical proofs grounded in pure reason (particularly the ontological argument) for the existence of God and his philosophical commentary on some Christian doctrines, have resulted in interpretations that see Kant as hostile to religion in general and Christianity in particular (e.g., Walsh 1967). Nevertheless, other interpreters consider that Kant was trying to mark off defensible from indefensible Christian belief. Kant sees in Jesus Christ the affirmation of a \"pure moral disposition of the heart\" that \"can make man well-pleasing to God\". Regarding Kant's conception of religion, some critics have argued that he was sympathetic to deism. Other critics have argued that Kant's moral conception moves from deism to theism (as moral theism), for example Allen W. Wood and Merold Westphal. As for Kant's book \"Religion within the Boundaries of bare Reason\", it was emphasized that Kant reduced religiosity to rationality, religion to morality and Christianity to ethics.\n\nIn the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", Kant distinguishes between the transcendental idea of freedom, which as a psychological concept is \"mainly empirical\" and refers to \"the question whether we must admit a power of spontaneously beginning a series of successive things or states\" as a real ground of necessity in regard to causality, and the practical concept of freedom as the independence of our will from the \"coercion\" or \"necessitation through sensuous impulses\". Kant finds it a source of difficulty that the practical idea of freedom is founded on the transcendental idea of freedom, but for the sake of practical interests uses the practical meaning, taking \"no account of... its transcendental meaning,\" which he feels was properly \"disposed of\" in the Third Antinomy, and as an element in the question of the freedom of the will is for philosophy \"a real stumbling-block\" that has \"embarrassed speculative reason\".\n\nKant calls practical \"everything that is possible through freedom\", and the pure practical laws that are never given through sensuous conditions but are held analogously with the universal law of causality are moral laws. Reason can give us only the \"pragmatic laws of free action through the senses\", but pure practical laws given by reason \"a priori\" dictate \"what ought to be done\".\n\nIn the \"Critique of Practical Reason\", at the end of the second Main Part of the \"Analytics\", Kant introduces the categories of freedom, in analogy with the categories of understanding their practical counterparts. Kant's categories of freedom apparently function primarily as conditions for the possibility for actions (i) to be free, (ii) to be understood as free and (iii) to be morally evaluated. For Kant, although actions as theoretical objects are constituted by means of the theoretical categories, actions as practical objects (objects of practical use of reason, and which can be good or bad) are constituted by means of the categories of freedom. Only in this way can actions, as phenomena, be a consequence of freedom, and be understood and evaluated as such.\n\nKant discusses the subjective nature of aesthetic qualities and experiences in \"Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime\" (1764). Kant's contribution to aesthetic theory is developed in the \"Critique of Judgment\" (1790) where he investigates the possibility and logical status of \"judgments of taste.\" In the \"Critique of Aesthetic Judgment,\" the first major division of the \"Critique of Judgment\", Kant used the term \"aesthetic\" in a manner that, according to Kant scholar W.H. Walsh, differs from its modern sense. In the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", to note essential differences between judgments of taste, moral judgments, and scientific judgments, Kant abandoned the term \"aesthetic\" as \"designating the critique of taste,\" noting that judgments of taste could never be \"directed\" by \"laws \"a priori\".\" After A. G. Baumgarten, who wrote \"Aesthetica\" (1750–58), Kant was one of the first philosophers to develop and integrate aesthetic theory into a unified and comprehensive philosophical system, utilizing ideas that played an integral role throughout his philosophy.\n\nIn the chapter \"Analytic of the Beautiful\" in the \"Critique of Judgment\", Kant states that beauty is not a property of an artwork or natural phenomenon, but is instead consciousness of the pleasure that attends the 'free play' of the imagination and the understanding. Even though it appears that we are using reason to decide what is beautiful, the judgment is not a cognitive judgment, \"and is consequently not logical, but aesthetical\" (§ 1). A pure judgement of taste is subjective since it refers to the emotional response of the subject and is based upon nothing but esteem for an object itself: it is a disinterested pleasure, and we feel that pure judgements of taste (i.e. judgements of beauty), lay claim to universal validity (§§20–22). It is important to note that this universal validity is not derived from a determinate concept of beauty but from \"common sense\" (§40). Kant also believed that a judgement of taste shares characteristics engaged in a moral judgement: both are disinterested, and we hold them to be universal. In the chapter \"Analytic of the Sublime\" Kant identifies the sublime as an aesthetic quality that, like beauty, is subjective, but unlike beauty refers to an indeterminate relationship between the faculties of the imagination and of reason, and shares the character of moral judgments in the use of reason. The feeling of the sublime, divided into two distinct modes (the mathematical and the dynamical sublime), describes two subjective moments that concern the relationship of the faculty of the imagination to reason. Some commentators argue that Kant's critical philosophy contains a third kind of the sublime, the moral sublime, which is the aesthetic response to the moral law or a representation, and a development of the \"noble\" sublime in Kant's theory of 1764. The mathematical sublime results from the failure of the imagination to comprehend natural objects that appear boundless and formless, or appear \"absolutely great\" (§ 23–25). This imaginative failure is then recuperated through the pleasure taken in reason's assertion of the concept of infinity. In this move the faculty of reason proves itself superior to our fallible sensible self (§§ 25–26). In the dynamical sublime there is the sense of annihilation of the sensible self as the imagination tries to comprehend a vast might. This power of nature threatens us but through the resistance of reason to such sensible annihilation, the subject feels a pleasure and a sense of the human moral vocation. This appreciation of moral feeling through exposure to the sublime helps to develop moral character.\n\nKant developed a distinction between an object of art as a material value subject to the conventions of society and the transcendental condition of the judgment of taste as a \"refined\" value in the propositions of his \"Idea of A Universal History\" (1784). In the Fourth and Fifth Theses of that work he identified all art as the \"fruits of unsociableness\" due to men's \"antagonism in society\" and, in the Seventh Thesis, asserted that while such material property is indicative of a civilized state, only the ideal of morality and the universalization of refined value through the improvement of the mind \"belongs to culture\".\n\nIn \"Perpetual Peace: A Philosophical Sketch\", Kant listed several conditions that he thought necessary for ending wars and creating a lasting peace. They included a world of constitutional republics. His classical republican theory was extended in the \"Science of Right\", the first part of the Metaphysics of Morals (1797). Kant believed that universal history leads to the ultimate world of republican states at peace, but his theory was not pragmatic. The process was described in \"Perpetual Peace\" as natural rather than rational:\nKant's political thought can be summarized as republican government and international organization. \"In more characteristically Kantian terms, it is doctrine of the state based upon the law (\"Rechtsstaat\") and of eternal peace. Indeed, in each of these formulations, both terms express the same idea: that of legal constitution or of 'peace through law'. Kant's political philosophy, being essentially a legal doctrine, rejects by definition the opposition between moral education and the play of passions as alternate foundations for social life. The state is defined as the union of men under law. The state is constituted by laws which are necessary a priori because they flow from the very concept of law. \"A regime can be judged by no other criteria nor be assigned any other functions, than those proper to the lawful order as such.\" \n\nHe opposed \"democracy,\" which at his time meant direct democracy, believing that majority rule posed a threat to individual liberty. He stated, \"...democracy is, properly speaking, necessarily a despotism, because it establishes an executive power in which 'all' decide for or even against one who does not agree; that is, 'all,' who are not quite all, decide, and this is a contradiction of the general will with itself and with freedom.\" As with most writers at the time, he distinguished three forms of government i.e. democracy, aristocracy, and monarchy with mixed government as the most ideal form of it.\n\nKant lectured on anthropology for over 25 years. His \"Anthropology from a Pragmatic Point of View\" was published in 1798. (This was the subject of Michel Foucault's secondary dissertation for his State doctorate, \"Introduction to Kant's Anthropology\".) Kant's Lectures on Anthropology were published for the first time in 1997 in German. \"Introduction to Kant's Anthropology\" was translated into English and published by the Cambridge Texts in the History of Philosophy series in 2006.\n\nKant was among the first people of his time to introduce anthropology as an intellectual area of study long before the field gained popularity. As a result, his texts are considered to have advanced the field. Kant's point of view also influenced the works of philosophers after him such as Martin Heidegger, Paul Ricoeur, and Jean Greisch.\n\nKant viewed anthropology in two broad categories. One category was the physiological approach which he referred to as \"what nature makes of the human being\". The other category was the pragmatic approach which explored the things a human \"can and should make of himself\".\n\nKant's influence on Western thought has been profound. Over and above his influence on specific thinkers, Kant changed the framework within which philosophical inquiry has been carried out. He accomplished a paradigm shift; very little philosophy is now carried out in the style of pre-Kantian philosophy. This shift consists in several closely related innovations that have become foundational in philosophy itself and in the social sciences and humanities generally:\n\nKant's ideas have been incorporated into a variety of schools of thought. These include German Idealism, Marxism, positivism, phenomenology, existentialism, critical theory, linguistic philosophy, structuralism, post-structuralism, and deconstructionism.\n\nDuring his own life, there was much critical attention paid to his thought. He had an influence on Reinhold, Fichte, Schelling, Hegel, and Novalis during the 1780s and 1790s. The school of thinking known as German Idealism developed from his writings. The German Idealists Fichte and Schelling, for example, tried to bring traditional \"metaphysically\" laden notions like \"the Absolute\", \"God\", and \"Being\" into the scope of Kant's critical thought. In so doing, the German Idealists tried to reverse Kant's view that we cannot know what we cannot observe.\n\nHegel was one of Kant's first major critics. In response to what he saw as Kant's abstract and formal account, Hegel brought about an ethic focused on the \"ethical life\" of the community. But Hegel's notion of \"ethical life\" is meant to subsume, rather than replace, Kantian ethics. And Hegel can be seen as trying to defend Kant's idea of freedom as going beyond finite \"desires\", by means of reason. Thus, in contrast to later critics like Nietzsche or Russell, Hegel shares some of Kant's most basic concerns.\n\nKant's thinking on religion was used in Britain to challenge the decline in religious faith in the nineteenth century. British Catholic writers, notably G. K. Chesterton and Hilaire Belloc, followed this approach. Ronald Englefield debated this movement, and Kant's use of language. See Englefield's article, reprinted in Englefield. Criticisms of Kant were common in the realist views of the new positivism at that time.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer was strongly influenced by Kant's transcendental idealism. He, like G. E. Schulze, Jacobi, and Fichte before him, was critical of Kant's theory of the thing in itself. Things in themselves, they argued, are neither the cause of what we observe nor are they completely beyond our access. Ever since the first \"Critique of Pure Reason\" philosophers have been critical of Kant's theory of the thing in itself. Many have argued, if such a thing exists beyond experience then one cannot posit that it affects us causally, since that would entail stretching the category 'causality' beyond the realm of experience. For a review of this problem and the relevant literature see \"The Thing in Itself and the Problem of Affection\" in the revised edition of Henry Allison's \"Kant's Transcendental Idealism\". For Schopenhauer things in themselves do not exist outside the non-rational will. The world, as Schopenhauer would have it, is the striving and largely unconscious will. Michael Kelly, in the preface to his 1910 book \"Kant's Ethics and Schopenhauer's Criticism\", stated: \"Of Kant it may be said that what is good and true in his philosophy would have been buried with him, were it not for Schopenhauer...\"\n\nWith the success and wide influence of Hegel's writings, Kant's influence began to wane, though there was in Germany a movement that hailed a return to Kant in the 1860s, beginning with the publication of \"Kant und die Epigonen\" in 1865 by Otto Liebmann. His motto was \"Back to Kant\", and a re-examination of his ideas began (See Neo-Kantianism). During the turn of the 20th century there was an important revival of Kant's theoretical philosophy, known as the Marburg School, represented in the work of Hermann Cohen, Paul Natorp, Ernst Cassirer, and anti-Neo-Kantian Nicolai Hartmann.\n\nKant's notion of \"Critique\" has been quite influential. The Early German Romantics, especially Friedrich Schlegel in his \"Athenaeum Fragments\", used Kant's self-reflexive conception of criticism in their Romantic theory of poetry. Also in Aesthetics, Clement Greenberg, in his classic essay \"Modernist Painting\", uses Kantian criticism, what Greenberg refers to as \"immanent criticism\", to justify the aims of Abstract painting, a movement Greenberg saw as aware of the key limitiaton—flatness—that makes up the medium of painting. French philosopher Michel Foucault was also greatly influenced by Kant's notion of \"Critique\" and wrote several pieces on Kant for a re-thinking of the Enlightenment as a form of \"critical thought\". He went so far as to classify his own philosophy as a \"critical history of modernity, rooted in Kant\".\n\nKant believed that mathematical truths were forms of synthetic a priori knowledge, which means they are necessary and universal, yet known through intuition. Kant's often brief remarks about mathematics influenced the mathematical school known as intuitionism, a movement in philosophy of mathematics opposed to Hilbert's formalism, and Frege and Bertrand Russell's logicism.\n\nWith his \"\", Kant is considered to have foreshadowed many of the ideas that have come to form the democratic peace theory, one of the main controversies in political science.\n\nProminent recent Kantians include the British philosophers P. F. Strawson and Quassim Cassam and the American philosophers Wilfrid Sellars and Christine Korsgaard. Due to the influence of Strawson and Sellars, among others, there has been a renewed interest in Kant's view of the mind. Central to many debates in philosophy of psychology and cognitive science is Kant's conception of the unity of consciousness.\n\nJürgen Habermas and John Rawls are two significant political and moral philosophers whose work is strongly influenced by Kant's moral philosophy. They argued against relativism, supporting the Kantian view that universality is essential to any viable moral philosophy. Jean-Francois Lyotard, however, emphasized the indeterminacy in the nature of thought and language and has engaged in debates with Habermas based on the effects this indeterminacy has on philosophical and political debates.\n\nKant's influence also has extended to the social, behavioral, and physical sciences, as in the sociology of Max Weber, the psychology of Jean Piaget, and the linguistics of Noam Chomsky. Kant's work on mathematics and synthetic a priori knowledge is also cited by theoretical physicist Albert Einstein as an early influence on his intellectual development. Because of the thoroughness of the Kantian paradigm shift, his influence extends to thinkers who neither specifically refer to his work nor use his terminology.\n\nKant always cut a curious figure in his lifetime for his modest, rigorously scheduled habits, which have been referred to as clocklike. But Heinrich Heine noted the magnitude of \"his destructive, world-crushing thoughts\" and considered him a sort of philosophical \"executioner\", comparing him to Robespierre with the observation that both men \"represented in the highest the type of provincial bourgeois. Nature had destined them to weigh coffee and sugar, but Fate determined that they should weigh other things and placed on the scales of the one a king, on the scales of the other a god.\"\n\nWhen his body was transferred to a new burial spot, his skull was measured during the exhumation and found to be larger than the average German male's with a \"high and broad\" forehead. His forehead has been an object of interest ever since it became well-known through his portraits: \"In Döbler's portrait and in Kiefer's faithful if expressionistic reproduction of it — as well as in many of the other late eighteenth- and early nineteenth-century portraits of Kant — the forehead is remarkably large and decidedly retreating. Was Kant's forehead shaped this way in these images because he was a philosopher, or, to follow the implications of Lavater's system, was he a philosopher because of the intellectual acuity manifested by his forehead? Kant and Johann Kaspar Lavater were correspondents on theological matters, and Lavater refers to Kant in his work \"Physiognomic Fragments, for the Education of Human Knowledge and Love of People\" (Leipzig & Winterthur, 1775-1778).\n\nKant's mausoleum adjoins the northeast corner of Königsberg Cathedral in Kaliningrad, Russia. The mausoleum was constructed by the architect Friedrich Lahrs and was finished in 1924 in time for the bicentenary of Kant's birth. Originally, Kant was buried inside the cathedral, but in 1880 his remains were moved to a neo-Gothic chapel adjoining the northeast corner of the cathedral. Over the years, the chapel became dilapidated and was demolished to make way for the mausoleum, which was built on the same location.\n\nThe tomb and its mausoleum are among the few artifacts of German times preserved by the Soviets after they conquered and annexed the city. Today, many newlyweds bring flowers to the mausoleum.\n\nArtifacts previously owned by Kant, known as \"Kantiana\", were included in the Königsberg City Museum. However, the museum was destroyed during World War II.\n\nA replica of the statue of Kant that stood in German times in front of the main University of Königsberg building was donated by a German entity in the early 1990s and placed in the same grounds.\n\nAfter the expulsion of Königsberg's German population at the end of World War II, the University of Königsberg where Kant taught was replaced by the Russian-language Kaliningrad State University, which appropriated the campus and surviving buildings. In 2005, the university was renamed Immanuel Kant State University of Russia. The name change was announced at a ceremony attended by President Vladimir Putin of Russia and Chancellor Gerhard Schröder of Germany, and the university formed a Kant Society, dedicated to the study of Kantianism.\n\n\nWilhelm Dilthey inaugurated the Academy edition (the \"Akademie-Ausgabe\" abbreviated as \"AA\" or \"Ak\") of Kant's writings (\"Gesammelte Schriften\", Königlich-Preußische Akademie der Wissenschaften, Berlin, 1902–38) in 1895, and served as its first editor. The volumes are grouped into four sections:\n\n\nIn Germany, one important contemporary interpreter of Kant and the movement of German Idealism he began is Dieter Henrich, who has some work available in English. P. F. Strawson's \"The Bounds of Sense\" (1966) played a significant role in determining the contemporary reception of Kant in England and America. More recent interpreters of note in the English-speaking world include Lewis White Beck, Jonathan Bennett, Henry Allison, Paul Guyer, Christine Korsgaard, Stephen Palmquist, Robert B. Pippin, Roger Scruton, Rudolf Makkreel, and Béatrice Longuenesse.\nGeneral introductions to his thought\n\nBiography and historical context\n\nCollections of essays\n\nTheoretical philosophy\n\nPractical philosophy\n\nAesthetics\n\nPhilosophy of religion\n\nPerpetual peace and international relations\n\nOther works\n\nContemporary philosophy with a Kantian influence\n\n"}
{"id": "2351725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2351725", "title": "Indispensable party", "text": "Indispensable party\n\nAn indispensable party (also called a required party, necessary party, or necessary and indispensable party) is a party in a lawsuit whose participation is required for jurisdiction or the purpose of rendering a judgment. In reality, a party may be \"necessary\" but not indispensable. For example, if s/he claims an interest in the litigation, that interest may be impeded if s/he is not joined. That doesn't transform him or her into an indispensable party unless her absence threatens some other party's interest. Often, an indispensable party is any party whose rights are directly affected by disposition of the case. Many jurisdictions have rules which provide for an indispensable party to be joined (brought into the case as a party) at the discretion of the judge. In some cases, the inability to join such a party means that the case must be dismissed. This is outlined in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 19. \n\nThe indispensable party is often a prudential standing requirement. That is, while the parties currently involved in litigation have an actual case or controversy, judges will not proceed without the indispensable party. This avoids potential double litigation and possibly inequitable outcomes. In determining whether a party is indispensable, courts generally look to three factors:\n\nIn patent law, for example, a patent owner is an indispensable party to a patent infringement suit brought by an exclusive licensee against an alleged infringer. The patent owner's rights would be directly affected by a finding of invalidity or unenforceability of the patent claims. At the same time, if the patent owner is not a party to the case, the alleged infringer could be sued separately by the patent owner, and could end up having to pay two judgments for the same act of infringement.\n\nOnce it has been determined that a missing party is indispensable, the court must determine whether it is feasible to join that party to the case. In making this determination, the court will use the same analysis that it uses to determine whether it has jurisdiction over any party. First, it must determine whether it can exercise personal jurisdiction over the party. Second, it must determine whether the exercise of personal jurisdiction will affect its subject matter jurisdiction. In diversity cases, which brought in federal court on the basis of all plaintiffs coming from different states as all defendants, joinder will not be deemed feasible if it destroys diversity.\n\nWhere the missing party can not be brought into the case, the court must determine whether it is possible to proceed without joining that party. If it is not possible to proceed, the case will be dismissed.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, the failure to join an indispensable party does not hinder the case. For example, the Commonwealth of Virginia does not recognize the doctrine of indispensable parties; although a defendant may argue that the plaintiff has improperly failed to join a party that would conventionally be deemed indispensable, and may seek to have the court \"attempt\" to join the missing party, if it is not feasible to join the missing party then the case will simply go on without them.\n"}
{"id": "8730629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8730629", "title": "Inter-American Convention to Prevent and Punish Torture", "text": "Inter-American Convention to Prevent and Punish Torture\n\nThe Inter-American Convention to Prevent and Punish Torture (IACPPT) is an international human rights instrument, created in 1985 within the Western Hemisphere Organization of American States and intended to prevent torture and other similar activities. \n\nThe Inter-American Convention entered into force on February 28, 1987, and, as of 2013, 18 nations are party to it, with another two having signed but not yet ratified. \n\nThe Inter-American Convention defines torture more expansively than the United Nations Convention Against Torture, including \"the use of methods upon a person intended to obliterate the personality of the victim or to diminish his physical or mental capacities, even if they do not cause physical pain or mental anguish.\" The Convention is one of a series of OAS agreements that seek to protect human rights, within the framework of the American Convention on Human Rights, which bans torture in less detail. \n\nThe Convention also requires states to take effective measures to prevent torture within their borders, and creates an ability to extradite persons accused of torture.\n\nBefore the 24 Articles of the Inter-American Convention to Prevent and Punish Torture are listed, the American States signatories are to state their awareness of the purpose of the convention, affirming that the convention is actually necessary, and concur that torture or cruel and inhuman treatment of any kind is inherently wrong and an act against human rights. This serves as a springboard for the rest of the convention, proving that all signatory states are in agreement about the main purpose of the Convention. The Commission has also stated multiple times that it is a signatory state's duty to prevent incommunicado detention, and to strive to be aware and knowledgeable of what happens to its prisoners and those stripped of their liberties to ensure that they are not tortured. Failure to do so would be an infringement against the Torture Conventions Article Five which ensures that a State creates conditions that prevents an individual from undergoing torture and punishes those who initiate or instigate such activities.\n\nOn December 18th of 2002, the optional Protocol to the Convention Against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman, or Degrading Treatment or Punishment was adopted and sponsored by the United Nations. An optional protocol adds to or elaborates upon the treaty it is associated with.  Unlike the Inter-American Convention to Prevent and Punish Torture, this protocol issued that places where people are stripped of their liberties be visited by other independent international and national bodies. This would ultimately address the countries in violation of the Convention to work toward a consensus regarding said issue.\n\nThe Organization of American States' (O.A.S.) main convention, the American Convention on Human Rights, has a small section within its chapters skimming over the issue of torture. The American Convention on Human Rights was adopted at the Inter-American Specialized Conference on Human Rights in Costa Rica on November 22, 1969. Within Article Five of its second chapter on civil and political rights the convention states that no person shall be tortured and that people deprived of their liberty, such as those who are imprisoned, shall not be subject to such treatment either.\n\nLike the Inter-American Convention to Prevent Torture, the UN Convention outlines that its goal is not to outlaw all torture everywhere, but to make sure that the countries under the UN follow the Articles agreed upon during the convention. The Convention's main purpose is to strengthen opposition and prohibition of torture globally through its support of allied countries and states. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3557676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3557676", "title": "International Environmental Law Research Centre", "text": "International Environmental Law Research Centre\n\nThe International Environmental Law Research Centre (or IELRC) is an independent, non-profit research organisation established in 1995. It is an Association under Articles 60ff of the Swiss Civil Code. It has offices in the International Environment House in Geneva, Switzerland, Nairobi, Kenya and New Delhi, India.\n\n\nRecent books written by IELRC researchers include: \n\nIELRC co-publishes the \"Law, Environment and Development Journal (LEAD)\" with the Law School of the School of Oriental and African Studies. \n\n"}
{"id": "656803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=656803", "title": "Just Say No", "text": "Just Say No\n\n\"Just Say No\" was an advertising campaign, part of the U.S. \"War on Drugs\", prevalent during the 1980s and early 1990s, to discourage children from engaging in illegal recreational drug use by offering various ways of saying \"no\". The slogan was created and championed by First Lady Nancy Reagan during her husband's presidency.\n\nThe campaign emerged from a substance abuse prevention program supported by the National Institutes of Health, pioneered in the 1970s by University of Houston Social Psychology Professor Richard I. Evans. Evans promoted a social inoculation model, which included teaching student skills to resist peer pressure and other social influences. The campaign involved University projects done by students across the nation. Jordan Zimmerman, then a student at USF, and later an advertising entrepreneur, won the campaign. The anti-drug movement was among the resistance skills recommended in response to low peer pressure, and Nancy Reagan's larger campaign proved to be a useful dissemination of this social inoculation strategy.\n\nNancy Reagan first became involved during a campaign trip in 1980 to Daytop Village, New York. She recalls feeling impressed by a need to educate the youth about drugs and drug abuse. Upon her husband's election to the presidency, she returned to Daytop Village and outlined how she wished to help educate the youth. She stated in 1981 that her best role would be to bring awareness about the dangers of drug abuse:\n\nUnderstanding what drugs can do to your children, understanding peer pressure and understanding why they turn to drugs is ... the first step in solving the problem.\n\nThe \"Just Say No\" slogan was the creation of Robert Cox and David Cantor, advertising executives at the New York office of Needham, Harper & Steers/USA in the early 1980s.\n\nIn 1982, the phrase \"Just Say No\" first emerged when Nancy Reagan was visiting Longfellow Elementary School in Oakland, California. When asked by a schoolgirl what to do if she was offered drugs, the First Lady responded: \"Just say no.\" Just Say No club organizations within schools and school-run anti-drug programs soon became common, in which young people were making pacts not to experiment with drugs.\n\nWhen asked about her efforts in the campaign, Nancy Reagan said: \"If you can save just one child, it's worth it.\" She traveled throughout the United States and several other nations, totaling over . Nancy Reagan visited drug rehabilitation centers and abuse prevention programs; with the media attention that the first lady receives, she appeared on television talk shows, recorded public service announcements, and wrote guest articles. By the autumn of 1985, she had appeared on 23 talk shows, co-hosted an October 1983 episode of \"Good Morning America\", and starred in a two-hour PBS documentary on drug abuse.\n\nThe campaign and the phrase \"Just Say No\" made their way into popular American culture when TV shows like \"Diff'rent Strokes\" and \"Punky Brewster\" produced episodes centered on the campaign. In 1983, Nancy Reagan appeared as herself in the television programs \"Dynasty\" and \"Diff'rent Strokes\" to garner support for the anti-drug campaign. She participated in a 1985 rock music video \"Stop the Madness\" as well. La Toya Jackson became spokesperson for the campaign in 1987 and recorded a song titled \"Just Say No\" with British hit producers Stock/Aitken/Waterman.\n\nIn 1985, Nancy Reagan expanded the campaign internationally. She invited the First Ladies of thirty various nations to the White House in Washington, D.C. for a conference entitled the \"First Ladies Conference on Drug Abuse\". She later became the first First Lady invited to address the United Nations.\n\nShe enlisted the help of the Girl Scouts of the United States of America, Kiwanis Club International, and the National Federation of Parents for a Drug-Free Youth to promote the cause; the Kiwanis put up over 2000 billboards with Nancy Reagan's likeness and the slogan. Over 5000 Just Say No clubs were founded in schools and youth organizations in the United States and abroad. Many clubs and organizations remain in operation around the country, where they aim to educate children and teenagers about the effects of drugs.\n\nJust Say No crossed over to the United Kingdom in the 1980s, where it was popularized by the BBC's 1986 \"Drugwatch\" campaign, which revolved around a heroin-addiction storyline in the popular children's TV drama serial \"Grange Hill\". The cast's cover of the original U.S. campaign song, with an added rap, reached the UK top ten. The death of Anna Wood in Sydney, Australia and British teen Leah Betts from Essex in the mid-1990s sparked a media firestorm across both the UK and Australia over the use of illegal drugs. Wood's parents even released her school photograph on a badge with the saying \"Just say no to drugs\" placed on it to warn society on the dangers of illicit drug use. The photograph was widely circulated in the media. A photo of Betts in a coma in her hospital bed was also circulated in British media. Both teenagers died due to water intoxication as they drank too much water after ingesting ecstasy.\n\nNancy Reagan's related efforts increased public awareness of drug use, but a direct relationship between reduced drug use and the Just Say No campaign cannot be established. Although the use and abuse of illegal recreational drugs significantly declined during the Reagan presidency, this may be a spurious correlation: a 2009 analysis of 20 controlled studies on enrollment in one of the most popular \"Just Say No\" programs, DARE, showed no effect on drug use.\n\nThe campaign did draw some criticism. Nancy Reagan's approach to promoting drug awareness was labeled simplistic by critics who argued that the solution was reduced to a catch phrase. In fact, two studies suggested that enrollees in DARE-like programs were actually \"more\" likely to use alcohol and cigarettes. Critics have also suggested that inflamed fears from \"Just Say No\" exacerbated mass incarceration and prevented youth from receiving accurate information about dealing with drug abuse. Critics also think that \"Just Say No\" contributed towards the well seasoned stigma about people who use drugs being labelled as \"bad\", and the stigma toward those people who are addicted to drugs being labelled as making a cognizant amoral choice to engage in drug use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2730307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2730307", "title": "Legal Practice Course", "text": "Legal Practice Course\n\nThe Legal Practice Course (LPC)also known as the Postgraduate Diploma in Legal Practiceis the final vocational stage for becoming a solicitor in England and Wales. The course is designed to provide a bridge between academic study and training in a law firm. It is a one-year, full-time (or two-year, part-time) course, and tuition fees range from £8,000-£16,200 a year. A small proportion of students may have their fees and some living expenses paid for by future employers under a training contract.\n\nThe course is usually taken after a law degree, but a large minority take the course after studying a different subject at university and taking a conversion course called the Graduate Diploma in Law (GDL/CPE). The LPC is regulated through the Law Society of England and Wales and replaced the Law Society’s Final Examination (LSF) in 1993. Like the GDL/CPE, the LPC can be applied to through the Central Applications Board.\n\nThe LPC is also offered to LLB graduates at some Australian universities, as an alternative to an articled clerkship.\n\nIn Scotland, the equivalent is the Diploma in Professional Legal Practice.\n\nThe course content can be broadly classified into three phases of learning. These are (a) \"Core\" compulsory modules, (b) \"Elective\" modules and (c) practical skills. Skills comprise advocacy, interviewing and advising, writing, drafting and research, solicitors' accounts, wills and administration and taxation.\n\nGenerally taught in the first (and longest) part of the course, the compulsory modules are generally Criminal Litigation, Business Law and Practice, Property Law and Practice, and Civil litigation. In the shorter second part of the course, students select their \"Elective\" modules from a list chosen by the providing institution.\n\nTopics vary from institution to institution, but those widely available include advanced courses in the compulsory modules, along with: personal injury, family law, employment law, housing law, immigration law, probate and private client, commercial law, welfare law and commercial property law. Some topics recur throughout the teaching of all course topics and can come up in all examinations. These include: professional conduct, restricted activities under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, business accounts and taxation.\n\nDifferent institutions require different grades before accepting candidates onto their course. Institutions will often interview students with third class degrees before accepting them while only some will interview before accepting a candidate with a lower second. The course generally lasts nine months and has substantially less holiday than an undergraduate course. Emphasis is placed on class room teaching alongside independent study.\n\nLPC providers are rigorously inspected by the Solicitors Regulation Authority, commonly referred to as the SRA with the intention of maintaining high standards throughout the sector. Some providers are notably more expensive than others and will often be able to spend more money on both staff and facilities.\n\nIn 2005, a total of 6,554 people passed the LPC, an overall rate of 84%, representing a 3% rise from the previous year. It is possible to sit all LPC exams three times before failing the course. It is necessary to pass all subjects.\n\n9,337 students enrolled on the LPC in 2008/09. Quite a few deferred their exams or dropped out altogether, leaving 7,759 to take the exam; 5,824 of those passed the exams that year (75% of those who entered), just over the number of training contracts on offer (5,809). It should also be noted that training contracts with big firms tend to start recruitment 2 years in advance i.e. 2 years before completion of the LPC.\n\nThe Law Society has a bursary scheme, this is available for some candidates who have already taken the LPC. Upon securing and commencing a training contract the recipient individual gets their fees paid through Law Society funds.\n\nIt is not uncommon for law firms to provide sponsorship to LPC students as part of a job offer. Generally sponsorship is only offered by wealthy commercial practices, although a limited number of legal aid sponsorship packages (funded by the Law Society of England and Wales) do exist.\n\nBanks do offer preferential bank loans to post-graduate students in employment. This is an expensive option with loans of up to £25,000 being available. Alternatively, information on professional career development loans run by the National Careers Service can be found on the National Careers Service website, or in Job Centres.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9472470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9472470", "title": "Li–Lobanov Treaty", "text": "Li–Lobanov Treaty\n\nThe Li–Lobanov Treaty or the Sino-Russian Secret Treaty ( ) was a secret and unequal treaty signed on June 3, 1896 in Moscow by foreign minister Alexey Lobanov-Rostovsky on behalf of the Russian Empire and viceroy Li Hongzhang on behalf of Qing China. The contents of the agreement were made public only in 1922.\n\nFollowing the Treaty of Shimonoseki ending the First Sino-Japanese War and the Triple Intervention, China was forced to pay a large indemnity to the Empire of Japan. In order to raise the funds for this payment, China approached France and Russia for loans. Taking advantage of this situation, Russian finance minister Sergei Witte established the Russo-Chinese Bank, which was controlled by the Russian government, and agreed to facilitate the loans.\n\nMeeting with Li Hongzhang in Moscow during the coronation ceremonies for Tsar Nicholas II, Witte promised to maintain Chinese territorial integrity and suggested a secret military alliance against possible future aggression by the Empire of Japan. In exchange, Russia would be allowed to use Chinese ports for its warships, and to build a Russian gauge railway through Heilongjiang and Jilin to Vladivostok on the Pacific coast. Along with the railway concession, Russian personnel and police received extraterritorial jurisdiction over large portions of Northeast China and the permission to station troops to protect the railway. China was also not allowed to interfere with Russian troop movements or munitions and also had to grant Russia decreased tariff rates.\nTo avoid diplomatic issues with the other major powers, Li insisted that the concession be granted to the Russo-Chinese Bank, rather than directly to the Russian government, making the railway nominally a joint project, although it was in reality completely financed and controlled by Russia.\n\nThe terms of the treaty were tantamount to the annexation of northeast China by Russia in all but name. Rather than protecting China from Japanese territorial ambitions, the treaty opened the door towards further Russian expansionism in the form of the Russia–Qing Convention of 1898, in which China was forced to lease the southern tip of the Liaodong Peninsula to Russia and allow a southern extension of Russia's China Eastern Railway to be built from northern Harbin to the port city of Dalian.\nThese events increased anti-foreign sentiment in China, which came to a head in the Boxer Uprising of 1900.\n\n"}
{"id": "1177106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1177106", "title": "Mechanic's lien", "text": "Mechanic's lien\n\nA mechanic's lien is a security interest in the title to property for the benefit of those who have supplied labor or materials that improve the property. The lien exists for both real property and personal property. In the realm of real property, it is called by various names, including, generically, construction lien. It is also called a materialman's lien or supplier's lien when referring to those supplying materials, a laborer's lien when referring to those supplying labor, and a design professional's lien when referring to architects or designers who contribute to a work of improvement. In the realm of personal property, it is also called an artisan's lien. The term \"lien\" comes from a French root, with a meaning similar to link; it is related to \"liaison\". Mechanic's liens on property in the United States date from the 18th century.\n\nMechanic's liens in their modern form were first conceived by Thomas Jefferson, to encourage construction in the new capital city of Washington. They were established by the Maryland General Assembly, of which the city of Washington was then a part. However, it is not likely that Jefferson single-handedly dreamed up the idea.\n\nAt the time Jefferson promoted the law, a lien-like privilege already existed in civil law countries like France, the Dutch Republic and Spain, with some laws even tracing their roots to the Roman Empire. And since control of Louisiana had passed between the French and Spaniards, and had largely adopted the French Napoleonic Code, there was a similar privilege concept in that territory.\n\nIt seems highly likely that the legislators working on the first U.S. Mechanic Lien laws had knowledge of, and referenced these civil law concepts. Nevertheless, the United States version was original, as it gave builders a more robust right into the land itself (versus just the improvement’s value).\n\nWith respect to real property, mechanic's liens are purely statutory devices that exist in every state (although in California, as noted below, they have a constitutional foundation). The reason they exist is a legislative public policy to protect contractors. More specifically, the state legislatures have determined that, due to the economics of the construction business, contractors and subcontractors need greater remedy for non-payment for their work than merely the right to sue on their contracts. In particular, without the mechanics' lien, subcontractors providing either labor or materials may have no effective remedy if their general contractor is not sufficiently financially responsible, because their only contractual right is with that general contractor.\n\nWithout the mechanic's lien, the contractor would have a limited number of options to enforce payment of the amounts owed. Further, there is usually a long list of claimants on any failed project. To avoid the specter of various trades, materialmen and suppliers attempting to remove the improvements they have made, and to maintain a degree of equality between the various lienors on a project, the statutory lien scheme was created. Without it, Tradesperson A may try to \"race\" Supplier B to the courthouse, the project site or the construction lender to obtain payment. Most lien statutes instead mandate strict compliance with the formalized process they create in return for the timely resolution and balancing of claims between all parties involved - both owners and lien claimants.\n\nIn the state of California, mechanic's liens are a \"constitutional\" right guaranteed to contractors by the California Constitution. This right has been implemented in detail by statutes enacted by the California State Legislature. In Texas, the Texas Constitution gives builders the right to lien and sub contractors are given the right under Chapter 53 of the Texas State Property Code\n\nA lien against a vehicle that is asserted by an auto mechanic is technically an \"artisan's lien\" rather than a \"mechanic's lien\", but it operates in a similar fashion to a mechanic's lien. A mechanic's lien can only arise against real property i.e., land or buildings.\nIf a person (licensed repair facility) has repaired, furnished supplies or materials, towed or stored a vehicle and has not been paid for the services rendered, that person has a lien against the vehicle. The lien arises at the time the registered owner is presented with a written statement of charges for completed work or services. Although if services were performed that were not agreed upon and no written and signed estimate was issued beforehand, a mechanic has no right to keep the title owner from reclaiming the vehicle. If a mechanic asserts a fee that is not reasonably related to the work performed, and refuses to return the vehicle until that price is paid, the owner of the vehicle will be able to recoup a storage fee from the mechanic, as the mechanic is in the wrong for refusing to return the vehicle. In doing so the mechanic would commit the crime of conversion, or embezzlement.\n\nOn the other hand, the mechanic can assess certain expenditures from the owner that are related to the work performed. These expenditures are normally, towing, storage fees, and the cost of filing the lien.\n\nIf the vehicle is towed by a public agency or private towing company, the lien arises when the vehicle is towed or transported. The lien may be satisfied by selling the vehicle through the lien sale process.\n\nTo conduct a lien sale, the person/lienholder must have possession of the vehicle and may require lien sale authorization from the State's Department of Motor Vehicles, depending on the State and or value of the vehicle. Interested parties, including the registered and legal owners of record will be notified, by Registered Mail, before the sale occurs.\n\nMechanic's liens exist to secure payment for services, labor and material on both personal and real property. However, the creation and enforcement mechanisms differ depending on whether real or personal property is involved. The law of mechanic's liens on real property governs the creation and enforcement of these liens on items of personal property that have been attached to real property in such a way as to be a fixture.\n\nThe English common law recognized mechanic's liens respecting only personal property. The lien was created by operation of law by the fact of the artisan working on the personal property item or attaching additional material to it. However, to maintain the lien, the artisan had to retain possession of the article until he or she was paid. If the property were returned to the owner before that time, the lien was lost. The lien was enforced by a \"self-help\" sale of the property and applying the sale proceeds to payment of the amount owed for the workmanship. The sales were non-judicial, i.e., they were held in the same way as a sale of property pawned for a debt.\n\nIn America, 34 states now appear to have statutes providing for mechanic's liens on personal property. These statutes tend to modify the common law rules. For example, in Virginia, a mechanic's lien can only be enforced up to the amount of $625, and if the property is valued at over $5,000, it must be sold at a sheriff's auction ordered by the court of appropriate jurisdiction.\n\nMechanic's liens on the title to real property are exclusively the result of legislation. Each state has its own laws regarding the creation and enforcement of these liens, but, overall, there are some similar elements among them. Many States distinguish between the types of real property upon which a mechanics lien can be filed.\n\nUnder the principle of sovereign immunity, real property of the government (public property) is ordinarily not subject to the claims of private parties. Therefore, unless the state specifically so provides, mechanic's liens do not attach to the title owned by the state or its administrative subdivisions, such as cities. Similarly, mechanic's liens under state law are invalid on federal construction projects. To protect subcontractors and suppliers working on federal projects where the contract price exceeds $100,000.00 the Miller Act requires general contractors to provide a payment bond which guarantees payment for work done in accordance with the terms of the contract. Many state and municipal governments similarly require contractors on public works projects to be bonded under so-called \"Little Miller Acts.\" Theoretically, the payment bond under the Miller Act or Little Miller Act stands in place of the government's property, and qualified claimants make claims against that bond similar to how they would file an ordinary mechanic's lien.\n\nIn many states, the legislature has created extra procedures in order for a mechanics lien to be placed on residential property. In New Jersey, which enacted the strictest of these regulations, a mechanics lien can only be placed on residential property after a Notice of Unpaid Balance and Right to File Lien has been filed within 60 days of the lienor's last date of work and an arbitration award has been issued by an American Arbitration Association arbitrator permitting a mechanics lien to be filed.\n\nThe act itself of filing a mechanics lien can be difficult. Most States simply require the filing of the mechanics lien with a county or court clerk within a defined amount of time from a triggering event. However, Maryland requires an application to the Court in order to file a mechanics liens. In Maryland, corporations must hire an attorney to make an application to the court.\n\nUnder the statutes, the lien is usually created by the performance of labor or the supplying of material that improves the property. Just what type of contribution counts as a valid basis for a mechanics lien varies, depending on the particular state statute that applies. Some common examples are:\n\nOften, there is no simple dividing line that is useful in every state, or even in every case, for determining this eligibility. Deciding whether a party has a legitimate lien right may depend on examining court cases that have either upheld or rejected lien claims in the same state.\n\nUnlike other security interests, in most states, mechanic's liens are given to contractors and material suppliers who may or may not have a direct contractual agreement with the owner of the land. In fact, this is often the norm because in most cases, the owner of the land contracts only with a general contractor (often called a \"prime contractor\"). The general contractor, in turn, hires subcontractors (\"subs\") and material suppliers (\"suppliers\") to perform the work. These subs and suppliers are entitled to liens on the owner's property to secure their payment from the general contractor.\n\nHowever, to have an enforceable lien, it usually must be \"perfected.\" This means that the holder of the lien must comply with the statutory requirements for maintaining and enforcing the lien. These requirements, which contain time limits, are generally as follows:\n\nBecause of the difficulty often associated with the filing of mechanics liens and compliance with mechanics lien laws, many lienors use attorneys or mechanics lien filing services to ensure that their mechanics lien is filed correctly.\n\nThe statutes creating mechanic's liens usually give them a higher priority with respect to other interests in the title than the law gives most real property security interests. Among other things, priority is the attribute that determines which of several competing security claims will have the first claim to the funds of a foreclosure sale. In this context, the priority of a mechanic's lien is determined either by the time the lien attaches to the title to the property or by the point in time to which it \"relates back.\" With some exceptions, the lien attaches or relates back to a time prior to the time that any notice of it appears in the public records. In many states, this is specified as the time when the first visible construction commences on the building site. In others, it is when the contract is executed for the work to be done. In still others, each contractor or supplier's lien attaches at the time when it commences its own work. Therefore, persons dealing with the owner of the title to the property risk having their interests unexpectedly subject to mechanic's liens of which they had no knowledge.\n\nSpecial provisions are made in some states for determining the priority between a mechanic's lien and the lien of a mortgage that is financing the construction on the land. For instance, in the State of New York, the appearance of specified language in the mortgage to the effect that it is a construction loan preserves its priority over mechanic's liens arising out of the construction, as long as subsequently filed lien claims that are legitimate are not ignored. In other states, such as Florida, it is an all or nothing proposition. There, the recording of the construction mortgage before the filing of a statutory notice of commencement of construction provides the mortgage with absolute priority over mechanic's liens arising out of the construction. Still other states, such as California, provide priority for a construction loan mortgage recorded before the visible commencement of construction where the lender is obligated to disburse the funds. In the State of Illinois, there is a statutory funds disbursing scheme that, if followed, provides construction loan mortgage priority. In other states, there are still other arrangements and some states, such as Colorado, provide almost no practical means for a construction loan mortgage to obtain priority at all.\n\nMechanic's liens are enforced exclusively through judicial foreclosure sales, i.e., through court proceedings similar to mortgage foreclosures. The court must determine whether the requirements of the statute have been met and, if so, the priority of the mechanic's lien being foreclosed relative to the other liens or encumbrances on the title. Once that is determined, the court will order the property sold and the proceeds of the sale applied to the liens in the order of their priority.\n\nStates may have various limitations on mechanic's liens. In California Law a contractor must wait to take advantage of the lien rights until any of the following conditions occur; otherwise the lien will be considered premature:\nEach of these required events occur at the end of the project life-cycle (or at the end of the scope of work for the subcontractor, the project may be far from completed). The end of the project may not be remotely close to the actual time when the work was performed (and the time at which labor and materials were paid out of pocket for the work by the contractor).\n\nAlso, the work must go directly toward the work of improvement of the property. This may seem obvious, but there are numerous construction costs that are not subject to mechanics' liens. A portion of construction costs may not qualify for a mechanic's lien because the work did not improve the property. A good example are items that are not intended to be permanent, but nevertheless, necessary in the course of construction. A temporary construction fence may be required, may serve a valuable function in safety and security, but is never expected to become part of the realty, so therefore is not a cost that is permitted under a mechanic's lien.\n\nThe attractive nature of the mechanic's lien is that the lien is secured by real property and the property can be sold in order to pay the lien. This is powerful tool, but not always efficient. In reality, this is a drawn out process that is not very efficient. However, given the economic conditions, and that lenders' usually have priority, the sale of the property may not be sufficient to pay for the value of the lien.\n\nWhat is often overlooked is that the contractor is now financing the project when they perform work and do not receive prompt payment for that work. The contractor is now tying up valuable capital that could be used elsewhere while waiting for the end of a project. In addition, the contractor must bear the cost of litigation in order to enforce their mechanic's lien rights. For disputes of a minor value, a mechanic's lien is not going to be a cost-effective method of obtaining payment for services.\n\nA \"lien release\", also known as a \"release of lien\" or a \"cancellation of lien\", is a document that may be voluntarily provided by a lien claimant, such as a subcontractor, in exchange for payment or a promise of payment from a general contractor or a property owner. Negotiations may be tricky, as lien claimants generally want to be paid before they release a lien, while the owner of the property subject to the lien will generally want the lien released before they make payment. Unlike a lien waiver that negates the right to file a lien in the future, a lien release cancels a lien that has already in effect.\n\nPrior to making any payment, the property owner should request a release of lien from every supplier, contractor and subcontractor, which covers the materials used and the work performed on the project. A release of lien is a written statement that releases the property from the threat of lien. If the contract requires partial payments be made before the work is completed in full, then the property owner may request a partial release of lien covering all labor and materials used up to the time of payment.\n\nBefore final payment, a property owner should obtain an affidavit from the contractor that lists all unpaid parties who performed labor or services, or provided materials to the property. The property owner should make sure the contractor obtains releases from all of these parties before making final payment.\n\nOften a mechanic’s lien is discovered long after it has been filed in the public records, but by taking a few proactive measures, property owners can ensure their properties are protected from the burdens imposed by such mechanic’s liens.\n\nFile a Notice of Commencement before beginning any home construction or remodeling project. Record the form with the Clerk of the Circuit Court in the county where the property being improved is located. Post a certified copy at the job site, too. The Notice notes the property owner’s intent to begin improvements, the location of the property, description of the work and the amount of bond (if any). It also identifies the property owner, contractor, surety, lender and other pertinent information.\n\nA property owner who fails to record a Notice of Commencement or incorrect information on the Notice could result in having to pay twice for the same work or materials. Request a list of all subcontractors and suppliers who have a contract with the contractor to provide services or materials to the property.\n\nAt the end of the project and after the contractor is paid in full and obtained all of the necessary Releases of Lien and affidavits as described above are obtained, file a Notice of Termination of Notice of Commencement with the Clerk of the Circuit Court in the county where the property being improved is located.\n\nStates typically have a process by which the land owner may challenge the claimant's prima facie entitlement to the liens on grounds such as proper identification of the property, compliance with notice requirements, and timing. If the lien claim survives those challenges, the owner may \"bond off\" the lien by filing a surety bond with the court in which the lien action has been initiated. This, in effect, frees the property from the lien and allows for sale of the property. The ability to bond off the lien is especially crucial where developers desire to proceed with the sale of newly built homes, which would otherwise remain unsold and unoccupied during the lien litigation process.\n\nCountries that recognize mechanic's liens often provide for very different rights and procedures than those of the United States.\n\nSome provinces of Canada (including Quebec) and New Zealand recognize a process somewhat analogous to a mechanic's lien. The Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador allows for liens similar to those of the United States.\n\nWith the exception of Mexico, mechanic's liens are generally not recognized throughout Latin America. \nSome countries, such as the United Arab Emirates, specifically prohibit the lien, except where voluntarily undertaken.\n\n"}
{"id": "33353153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33353153", "title": "Ministerial exception", "text": "Ministerial exception\n\nThe ministerial exception is a legal doctrine in the United States intended to protect the freedom of religion by exempting religious institutions from anti-discrimination laws in hiring employees. \nThe exception bars the application of civil rights laws to churches' employment relationships with ministers as the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution protects a \"church's right to decide matters of governance and internal organization\" and the Establishment Clause forbids \"excessive government entanglement with religion.\" For example, the US government cannot force the Catholic church to hire homosexual or female priests.\n\nIt is the focus of the DeMarco v. Holy Cross High School and Hosanna-Tabor v. EEOC court cases. The Hosanna-Tabor decision broadened the ministerial exception to allow the firing of a teacher with narcolepsy from a religious school where her religious duties consumed only 45 minutes of each workday, and who otherwise taught secular subjects. Later that year, the Fifth Circuit held that the Music Director and pianist at a church was also covered by the exception. The panel reasoned that by playing the piano at services, the pianist served an integral role at services and assisted in conveying the church's message to its congregation.\n\nChurch of the Holy Trinity v. United States\n"}
{"id": "57799899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57799899", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Laos)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Laos)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of Laos existed as far back as the Royal Lao Government (1940s). It was not until the first Laos government in 1975 that the ministry took a more active role in the creation and operation of the judiciary, court system, and the rights and freedoms of Laotian citizens. Additionally, the Prime Minister might guide the Ministry of Justice's role in regards to the legislative branch, the dissemination of law, and the promotion of legal education (e.g., law schools). \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16623957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16623957", "title": "Motion Picture Licensing Corporation", "text": "Motion Picture Licensing Corporation\n\nThe Motion Picture Licensing Corporation (\"MPLC\") is an international, independent copyright licensing agency authorized by motion picture copyright holders, such as studios and producers, to issue the MPLC Umbrella License for the public performance of copyrighted motion pictures and other programs. The MPLC issues the Umbrella License in accordance with Title 17 of the United States Code, which gives copyright owners control over the use of their works. The Umbrella License allows organizations, corporations, associations, and other groups to show legally obtained motion pictures and other programs that are intended for personal, private, home use only, in locations outside of the home.\n\n"}
{"id": "42616617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42616617", "title": "National Board for Prices and Incomes", "text": "National Board for Prices and Incomes\n\nThe National Board for Prices and Incomes was created by the government of Harold Wilson in 1965 in an attempt to solve the problem of inflation in the British economy by managing wages and prices.\n\nThe Board's chairman was Aubrey Jones, formerly a Conservative MP, who resigned his seat to take the position. Amongst the other members was the academic Hugh Clegg.\n\nThe Board's initial topics, given by the Government, were to deal with the pricing of soap, bread and road haulage. Its first report (July 1965) attacked price-fixing by the British Road Haulage Association. The Association's combative response was to prove a typical reaction to most of the Board's findings throughout its existence. Recommendations on wages were no more effective, especially as the Transport and General Workers Union was opposed from an early stage to the government's attempts at wage control. From 1966 onwards, the Government introduced a series of Prices and Incomes Orders to limit price and wage increases by law. This was in effect the end of the voluntary policy which had been envisaged. George Brown, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs responsible for the Board, was moved later that year to become Foreign Secretary.\n\nWith the failure of Brown's national economic plans, and especially after devaluation in 1967, wage control was more consistently opposed by British trades unions, and eventually in 1970 Wilson proposed to merge the Board with the Monopolies Commission, with Jones at its head. In the event the 1970 General Election was won by the Conservatives, who scrapped the organization. Clegg wrote a book on his experience entitled \"How to Run an Incomes Policy, and Why We Made Such a Mess of the Last One\". (1971). Subsequently in 1972 the Conservative government of Edward Heath revived the idea with a Prices Commission and a Pay Board, which were similarly unpopular, although the Prices Commission was retained (and the Pay Board abolished) by the returning Wilson government in 1974.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23440877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23440877", "title": "New Jersey stormwater management rules", "text": "New Jersey stormwater management rules\n\nThe New Jersey stormwater management rules were organized in 1983 and updated in 2004. The rules restrict building within 300-foot of \"high quality water\"; and stormwater and parking lot runoff at new developments must be diverted to a retention basin or a detention basin that are used for groundwater recharge to replenish the aquifer. The detention basins have the added effect of filtering urban runoff from parking lots of motor oil and other chemicals that would end up in storm sewers and eventually rivers and streams.\n\nNew Jersey receives an average of 44 inches of precipitation each year. About 15 to 39 inches of that rain recharge the reservoirs and aquifers. The original stormwater management rules were passed in 1983 and changes were first proposed in 2002 by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection. In 2004 Governor James McGreevey signed into law two new stormwater rules. The new rules minimize the impact of new development by encouraging groundwater recharge by rainwater harvesting using detention ponds. It also controls development near waterways by creating a buffer.\n\n"}
{"id": "51624782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51624782", "title": "North Korea Human Rights Act of 2016", "text": "North Korea Human Rights Act of 2016\n\nThe North Korean Human Rights Act (NKHRA) was passed on March 3, 2016 by the Seoul National Assembly in the Republic of Korea. The act sets clear guidelines for the protection and advancement of human rights for current and former North Korean citizens in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The North Korea Human Rights Act became effective on September 4, 2016.\n\nAct No. 14070 (NKHRA) outlines everything from the funding, research, and agencies to be established in order to carry out the purpose of the act. The NKHRA will create an annual plan to remedy alleged human rights abuses in North Korea and provide humanitarian assistance to North Korean citizens. It calls for the formation of an advisory committee that addresses problems faced by prisoners of war and separated families in the North. With the large number of afflicted individuals targeted by the NKHRA in mind, the act gives preference to the most vulnerable social groups such as children when assistance is to be provided. The act also aims to secure the physical safety of defectors and increases the flow of information to them by providing appropriate financial assistance to South Korean civil groups vis a vis specifically created bodies such as the North Korea Human Rights Foundation and the North Korean Human Rights Archive.\n\nSince the mid-2000s, the Seoul National Assembly has promulgated legislation that seeks to foster a more informed relationship between the Republic of Korea (ROK) and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK). The most notable new enactments include the Inter-Korea Exchange & Cooperation Act, the Inter-\nKorean Cooperation Fund Act, the Development of Inter-Korea Relations Act, and most\nrecently the North Korea Human Rights Act. Over this period, some NGOs have been openly critical of governmental commitment to addressing issues of human rights in North Korea. These groups have argued that attention given to humanitarian issues in North Korea tapered off following the Great Famine or \"Arduous March.\" Historically, consistent aid-focused campaigns were positively correlated to the amount of aid provided to the DPRK after 1995. From 2004 to 2012, bilateral and multilateral aid expressed a steep downward trend before eventually returning to its pre-1995 levels, as the broad network of NGOS campaigning for North Korean aid became limited to a few strategic advocacy groups. Organizations like Good Friends (Choŭn pŏddŭl) continued to bring awareness to North Korean human rights abuses by distributing photographs of famished North Korean children as one method for generating funding.\n\nSuch scrutiny came after various iterations of what ultimately became the NKHRA spent eleven years working its way toward approval from the National Assembly. During this time, both the United States and Japan passed legislation addressing North Korean human rights in 2004 and 2006, respectively. A 2014 UN Commission of Inquiry Report did little to assuage the concerns of human rights advocacy groups after the commission identified clear examples of the afflictions of North Korean citizens. In response, the Human Rights Foundation (HRF) later developed a Global Coalition for the North Korean Human Rights Act in September 2015 as a part of its continued Disrupt North Korea Project upon voicing its frustration with the National Assembly. The group consists of policymakers, activists and former heads of state. Prominent members include: Jimmy Wales, Larry Diamond, Viktor Yushchenko, Steven Pinker, Emil Constantinescu, Nurul Izzah Anwar, and Srdja Popovic. Seeking to bring awareness to alleged North Korean human rights abuses and to pressure the South Korean government to be more proactive, the Human Rights Foundation, among others - including Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch - continue to advocate for human rights in North Korea following the enactment of the NKHRA.\n\nThe NKHRA calls for a North Korean Human Rights Advisory Committee to be established within the Ministry of Unification. Detailed in Articles 5-6, selection of one half of the ten member advisory committee is dictated by the National Assembly to the Ministry of Unification on the basis of recommendations made by the political party to whom the President belongs. The advisory committee maintains a consultative role with the Minister of Unification. Under the Act, the Ministry will develop a long-term (three year) \"master-plan\" to promote human rights dialogue and provide humanitarian assistance after receiving advice and information gathered by the advisory committee, which will allow the Ministry to be more effective on a yearly basis under its dynamic short-term action plan.\n\nPer Articles 10-12 of the act, a Human Rights Foundation will be established as a corporation once it has filed for incorporation. Selection of one half of the twelve member Board of the Foundation is dictated by the National Assembly to the Ministry of Unification on the basis of recommendations made by the political party to whom the President belongs, with a chief director selected by the Minister of Unification. The Foundation is given the authority to conduct policy research and development in order to prevent human rights abuses and promote dialogue between North and South Korea. The act gives the Foundation authority to delegate responsibility (while providing financial assistance) for researching human rights and humanitarian issues to NGOs and local agencies. Articles 16-17 canonize Foundation members as public officials and outline applicable provisions of the Criminal Act to which they are held accountable. Members found to be in receipt of any subsidy of the NKHRA are subject to a fine of ₩30 million and up to three years in prison.\n\nArticle 13 calls for the establishment of a Human Rights Archive tasked with collecting and recording information pertaining to human rights and humanitarian assistance. The Minister of Unification gives express permission for the Archive to delegate any of the functions with which it is tasked to outside institutions while providing them with subsidies to cover any expenses incurred. All data collected and stored by the Archive is required to be transferred to the Ministry of Justice on a quarterly basis, which would allow cases to be systematically built against North Korean policymakers.\n\nUnder the act, the Minister of Unification is required to annually report to the National Assembly updates on the current status of human rights and any improvements accounted for by the act.\nArticle 9 §2 expressly calls for the appointment of an Ambassador for Human Rights in North Korea to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This provision is intended to facilitate cooperation with international organizations, international bodies and foreign governments in information exchange and promoting awareness of human rights concerns in North Korea, internationally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7896016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7896016", "title": "Norton S. Karno", "text": "Norton S. Karno\n\nNorton Stanley Karno (* 29. June 1936) is best known as an attorney for the Church of Scientology and its founder L. Ron Hubbard in the 1960s and 1970s, and whose name figures prominently in Scientology's history.\n\nKarno is also well known as an active real estate investor. According to an article in the Colorado newspaper \"Daily Camera\":\n\nKarno or one of his corporations owns more than 500 pieces of real estate nationwide, including seven parcels in Boulder County, Colorado. \n\nKarno is associated with the California firm of Karno, Schwartz & Friedman \n\nThe 1979 version of Hubbard's Last Will and Testament named Karno as Executor:\n\nI acknowledge that I have been informed and am advised that a conflict of interest may exist as to Norton S. Karno in his capacity as Personal Representative hereunder and in his capacity as a general partner of a partnership in which I may have an interest at my death. I understand that Norton S. Karno could favour the partnership over the estate, and vice versa, which could prejudice the rights of the other. In view of the foregoing, I hereby waive any conflict of interest that may result in Norton S. Karno's service in the aforementioned capacities.\n\nDuring Scientology's days of the Guardian's Office, Norton Karno wrote a letter to the GO's David Gaiman, complaining that Hubbard was receiving no money from the Church of Scientology. Shortly thereafter, Karno was taken off Hubbard's will to be replaced by Norman Starkey as Executor.\n\nKarno, along with fellow attorneys Meade Emory, James Q. Fisher, and Sherman and Stephen Lenske were reportedly involved in the Church's battle against the Internal Revenue Service during Operation Snow White.\n\nIn 1997, Karno was the second biggest stakeholder in Digital Lightwave, a Scientology-related company in Clearwater, Florida, during their initial public offering.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24189", "title": "Possession (law)", "text": "Possession (law)\n\nIn law, possession is the control a person's intentional exercises toward a thing. In all cases, to possess something, a person must have an intention to possess it. A person may be in possession of some property (although possession does not always imply ownership). Like ownership, the possession of anything is commonly regulated by country under property law.\n\nAn intention to possess (sometimes called \"animus possidendi\") is the other component of possession. All that is required is an intention to possess something for the time being. In common law countries, the intention to possess a thing is a fact. Normally, it is proved by the acts of control and surrounding circumstances.\n\nIt is possible to intend to possess something without knowing that it exists. For example, if you intend to possess a suitcase, then you intend to possess its contents, even though you do not know what it contains. It is important to distinguish between the intention sufficient to obtain possession of a thing and the intention required to commit the crime of possessing something illegally, such as banned drugs, firearms or stolen goods. The intention to exclude others from the suitcase and its contents does not necessarily amount to the guilty mind of intending to possess illegally.\n\nWhen people possess places to which the public has access, it may be difficult to know whether they intend to possess everything within those places. In such circumstances, some people make it clear that they do not want possession of the things brought there by the public. For example, it is not uncommon to see a sign above the coat rack in a restaurant which disclaims responsibility for items left there.\n\nPossession is one of the most important concepts in property law. There are three related and overlapping but not identical legal concepts: possession, right of possession and ownership.\n\nIn common law countries, possession is itself a property right. The owner of a property has the right of possession and may assign that right wholly or partially to another who may then also assign the right of possession to a third party. For example, an owner of residential property may assign the right of possession to a property manager under a property management contract who may then assign the right of possession to a tenant under a rental agreement. There is a rebuttable presumption that the possessor of property also has the right of possession, and evidence to the contrary may be offered to establish who has the legal right of possession to determine who should have actual possession, which may include evidence of ownership (without assignment of the right of possession) or evidence of a superior right of possession without ownership. Possession of a thing for long enough can become ownership by termination of the previous owner's right of possession and ownership rights. In the same way, the passage of time can bring to an end the owner's right to recover exclusive possession of a property without losing the ownership of it, as when an adverse easement for use is granted by a court.\n\nIn civil law countries, possession is not a right but a (legal) fact which enjoys certain protection by the law. It can provide evidence of ownership but it does not in itself satisfy the burden of proof. For example, ownership of a house is never proven by mere possession of a house. Possession is a factual state of exercising control over an object, whether owning the object or not. Only a legal (possessor has legal ground), bona fide (possessor does not know he has no right to possess) and regular possession (not acquired through force or by deceit) can become ownership over passage of time. A possessor enjoys certain judicial protection against third parties even if he is not the owner.\n\nThere may be varying degrees of rights to possession. For example, if you leave a book that belongs to you at a cafe and the waiter picks it up, you have lost possession. When you return to recover the book, even though the waiter has possession, you have a better right to possession and the book should be returned. This example demonstrates the distinction between ownership and possession: throughout the process you have not lost ownership of the book although you have lost possession at some point; or instead, the book may have been owned by a third party (such as a lending library) throughout, despite the changes in possession.\n\nPossession requires both control and intention. It is obtained from the first moment that both those conditions exist simultaneously. Usually, intention precedes control, as when you see a coin on the ground and reach down to pick it up. Nevertheless, it is conceivable that a person might obtain control of a thing before forming the intention to possess it. If unknowingly sat on and therefore had control of a $10 note on the seat of a train, he or she could obtain possession by becoming aware of the note and forming the intention to possess it. People can also intend to possess things left, without their knowledge, in spaces they control.\n\nPossession can be obtained by a one-sided act by which factual control is established. This can take the form of apprehension (taking an object not in someone's possession) or seizure (taking an object in someone's possession). It can also be obtained through a two-sided process of handing over the possession from one party to another. The party handing over possession must intend to do so.\n\nMost property possessed is obtained with the consent of someone else who possessed it. They may have been purchased, received as gifts, leased, or borrowed. The transfer of possession of goods is called delivery. For land, it is common to speak of granting or giving possession.\n\nA temporary transfer of possession is called a bailment. Bailment is often regarded as the separation of ownership and possession. For example, the library continues to own the book while you possess it and will have the right to possess it again when your right comes to an end. A common transaction involving bailment is a conditional sale or hire-purchase, in which the seller lets the buyer have possession of the thing before it is paid for. The buyer pays the purchase price in installments and, when it is fully paid, ownership of the thing is transferred from seller to buyer.\n\nIt is possible to obtain possession of a thing without anyone else's consent. First, you might take possession of something which has never been possessed before. This can occur when you catch a wild animal; or create a new thing, such as a loaf of bread. Secondly, you might find something which someone else has lost. Thirdly, you might take something from another person without their consent. Possession acquired without consent is a property right which the law protects. It gives rise to a right of possession which is enforceable against everyone except those with a better right to possession.\n\nThere are various forms of transferring possession. One can physically hand over the object (e.g. handing over a newspaper bought at the newsstand) but it is not always necessary for the party to literally grab the object for possession to be considered transferred. It is enough that the object is within the realm of factual control (e.g. leaving a letter in the letterbox). Sometimes it is enough for a symbol of the object which enables factual control to be handed over (e.g. handing over the keys to a car or a house). One may also choose to terminate possession, as one throws a letter in the trash. Possession includes having the opportunity to terminate possession.\n\nDecker, John F. \"Illinois Criminal Law.\" Newark, NJ: Matthew Bender & Co. 4th Ed. 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "34690144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34690144", "title": "Queensland Competition Authority", "text": "Queensland Competition Authority\n\nThe Queensland Competition Authority (QCA), an independent statutory authority that was established by the Queensland Government in 1997, promotes competition as the basis for enhancing efficiency and growth in the Queensland economy.\n\nThe Authority is governed by a three-member Board. The Minister responsible for administering the \"Queensland Competition Authority Act\" is the Treasurer, Curtis Pitt.\n\nThe QCA's primary role is to ensure monopoly businesses operating in Queensland, particularly in the provision of key infrastructure, do not abuse their market power through unfair pricing or restrictive access arrangements.\n\nFollowing a decision by the Queensland Government in 2012, their role was expanded to include responsibilities for the state’s regulatory reform, through the establishment of the Office of Best Practice Regulation (OBPR). The OBPR supports the Queensland Government’s strategy of reducing the burden of regulation on business and industry by 20% by 2018.\n\nIn support of the Queensland Government’s objective to improve productivity across the state, they also provide professional advice on productivity matters.\n\nIn terms of their enabling legislation, the \"Queensland Competition Authority Act 1997\" (the QCA Act), their main responsibilities are:\n\nThe QCA use pricing and other regulatory arrangements, based on sound economic and commercial principles, to encourage monopoly businesses to operate responsibly in the absence of normal competitive market forces.\n\nPrices oversight prevents government and non-government monopolies or near-monopolies from abusing their market power by charging excessive prices for their products or services – because they either have no competitors or existing ones are ineffective.\n\nThe QCA may investigate the pricing practices of such monopolies or monitor their pricing practices, depending on the referral from the Ministers responsible for administering the QCA Act (at present [2014] the Treasurer and Minister for Trade). They only perform these functions on request from the Minister.\n\nThe monopoly prices oversight powers of the QCA enable consumers to enjoy market prices, while businesses still earn a reasonable investment return – thus ensuring a beneficial outcome for all.\n\nEssential infrastructure that underpins economic activity should be accessible to all potential users.\n\nThe QCA regulate third party access to essential infrastructure so as to support competition by enabling competitors (i.e. ‘third parties’) to access infrastructure which cannot be economically duplicated, such as electricity and gas distribution systems, water storage and distribution systems, rail tracks and port channels. As an example, in the Queensland rail sector, they ensure track owned by Aurizon Holdings may also be used by other transport operators. This provides customers, such as coal miners, with options regarding the haulage of their product.\n\nBy opening up access, competition is enhanced in related markets such as electricity and gas retailing and rail transport.\n\nThe principle of competitive neutrality requires that government business activities competing in the market with non-government or private-business activities do not gain an unfair competitive advantage by virtue of being government-owned.\n\nTheir potential advantage could result from being exempt from any of the following: \n\nThe principle of competitive neutrality does not extend to competitive advantage arising from factors such as business size, skills, location or customer loyalty.\n\nApart from the specific responsibilities outlined above, the QCA has a range of general responsibilities. In particular, under section 10(e) of the QCA Act, Ministers can direct them to investigate and report on matters relating to competition, industry, productivity or best practice regulation.\n\nReflecting the Queensland Government’s priorities, they have increased their focus on matters relating to regulatory reform and productivity since 2012. \nThe QCA conduct inquiries into productivity related matters referred to them by the Queensland Government. They provide advice on ways to improve the productivity of the Queensland economy with an aim to increase economic growth and achieve higher living standards for the Queensland community.\n\nQueensland has over 65,000 pages of regulation. Complying with these regulations may cost the state economy as much as $2.5 billion a year.\n\nThe Office of Best Practice Regulation (OBPR) provides a transparent process to measure and, where possible, reduce the regulatory burden. It assists government departments as they work towards their goal of reducing regulation by 20% by 2018. All departments have targets to reduce the regulatory obligations in their legislation and regulations.\n\nThe responsibilities, in addition to those under the QCA Act, include:\n\nIn undertaking their roles, the QCA work in the following areas:\n\n"}
{"id": "16202520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16202520", "title": "Register of Judgments, Orders and Fines", "text": "Register of Judgments, Orders and Fines\n\nThe Register of Judgment, Orders and Fines is a statutory register in England and Wales that maintains a record of:\n\nThe Register of County Court Judgments was established by Parliament in 1852, originally maintained by the Lord Chancellor's Department, until it was transferred to Registry Trust in 1985. Details of administration orders made against individuals in county courts were added from 1993, and details of Child Support Agency liability orders were added from 1997.\n\nThe Courts Act 2003 extended the register to include High Court judgments from 6 April 2006, and renamed it the Register of Judgments, Orders and Fines. Enforced tribunal awards for money against individuals and companies have been added since 1 April 2009.\n\nThe register is currently regulated by the Register of Judgments, Orders and Fines Regulations 2005 as amended by the Register of Judgments, Orders and Fines (Amendments) Regulations 2009.\n\nThe register is operated by Registry Trust Limited on behalf of the Ministry of Justice. Registry Trust was originally established in 1985 by the predecessor of the Ministry of Justice, the Lord Chancellor's Department, and is a not-for-profit company that is entirely independent of the government. Prior to that date, the register was run by the Lord Chancellor's Department directly, but was proving costly to maintain. As the register is crucial for performing credit-worthiness checks, the government transferred operation to an independent and self-financing organisation, Registry Trust.\n\nRegistry Trust also operate similar registers for Scotland, the Republic of Ireland, Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man and Jersey\n"}
{"id": "13574492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13574492", "title": "Roof lantern", "text": "Roof lantern\n\nA roof lantern is a daylighting architectural element. Architectural lanterns are atop a larger roof and provide natural light into the space or room below. In contemporary use it is an architectural skylight structure. The term 'roof top lantern' is used to describe the lighted decorative lanterns atop taxi cabs in Japan, designed to reflect the cultural heritage of Japanese paper lanterns.\n\nThe glazed lantern was developed during the Middle Ages. Roof lanterns of masonry and glass were used in Renaissance architecture, such as in principal cathedrals. In 16th-century France and Italy, they began usage in orangeries, an early form of a conservatory structure with tall windows and a glazed roof section for wintering citrus trees and other plants in non-temperate climates.\n\nPost-Renaissance roof lanterns were made of timber and glass and were often prone to leaking. \nInitially wood-framed in the 18th and 19th centuries, skylights became even more popular in metal construction with the advent of sheet-metal shops during the Victorian era. Virtually every urban row house of the late-19th and early-20th centuries relied upon a metal-framed skylight to illuminate its enclosed stairwell. More elaborate dwellings of the era showed a fondness for the Roof Lantern, in which the humble ceiling-window design of the skylight is elaborated into a miniature glass-paneled conservatory-style roof cupola or tower.\n\nModern lanterns benefit from advances in glazing and sealing techniques, plus the development of high performance insulated glass and sealants, which reduce energy loss and provide water-tightness in the same manner as conventional skylights. Typically, roof lanterns are constructed using wood, UPVC or aluminium, or a combination of those materials.\n\nThey serve as an architectural feature, distinguished from commercial manufactured skylights by their custom design, providing unique views to the outdoors. Traditional architectural styles characterise most roof lanterns in the UK. In the U.S., where the term 'custom' skylight is often used, modern styles of roof lanterns are also common in the building vernacular.\n\n"}
{"id": "4824659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4824659", "title": "Rostker v. Goldberg", "text": "Rostker v. Goldberg\n\nRostker v. Goldberg, 453 U.S. 57 (1981), was a decision of the United States Supreme Court holding that the practice of requiring only men to register for the draft was constitutional. After extensive hearings, floor debate and committee sessions on the matter, the United States Congress enacted the law, as it had previously been, to apply to men only. Several attorneys, including Robert L. Goldberg, subsequently challenged the gender distinction as unconstitutional. (The named defendant is Bernard D. Rostker, Director of the Selective Service System.) In a 6-3 decision, the Supreme Court held that this gender distinction was not a violation of the equal protection component of the due process clause, and that the Act would stand as passed.\n\nThe Military Selective Service Act (Act) (1948) (revised 1967) authorizes the President to require the registration for possible military service of males, but not females, the purpose of registration being to facilitate any eventual conscription under the Act.\n\nHowever, registration for the draft was discontinued by Presidential Proclamation in 1974 (the Act was amended in 1973 to preclude conscription). In early 1980, President Jimmy Carter re-established the Military Selective Service System primarily because the Soviet Union had invaded Afghanistan. President Carter also recommended that the Act be amended so that the MSSA extended to include women. The question of registering women for the draft not only received considerable national attention and was the subject of wide-ranging public debate, but also was extensively considered by Congress in hearings, floor debate, and in committee. On April 22 in the House and June 12th in the Senate, a Joint Resolution to resume the registration process was passed. However, the full requested fund amount was not granted, rather just the funds required to register men. Registration of young men started on July 21, 1980.\n\nIn 1971 an anti-war group, the Philadelphia Resistance, gathered a group of young male high school students, including Andrew Rowland, his brother, David Sitman and David Fruedman to protest the draft. In \"Rowland v. Tarr\" (1971) the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania heard a challenge to the MSSA on several grounds, one of which was gender discrimination. In 1974, they were not granted a 3-judge court opinion because the draft was now discontinued. This group of men petitioned again in 1974 in \"Goldberg v. Tarr\". Robert Goldberg was a medical student at Penn State who registered and claimed to be a conscientious objector. In July 1980, just a few days before registration was to commence again, the district court offered an opinion claiming that the MSSA violated the Due Process Clause of the 5th Amendment.\n\nThe director of the Selective Service System, Bernard Rostker, filed an appeal and the circuit judge stayed the court decision and registration began as scheduled. \"Rostker v. Goldberg\" moved up to the Supreme Court.\n\nThe Army and Marine Corps precluded the use of women in combat as a matter of established policy, and both the Navy and the Air Force restricted women’s participation in combat. Even the president-who had originally suggested that women be included-expressed his intent to continue the current military policy excluding women from combat. Since the purpose of registration was to prepare for a draft of combat troops, and since women are excluded from combat, Congress concluded that they would not be needed in the event of a draft, and therefore decided funds should not be used to register them. As one Senator said, “It has been suggested that all women be registered, but only a handful actually be inducted in an emergency. The Committee finds this a confused and ultimately unsatisfactory solution.\" As the Senate Committee recognized a year before, \"training would be needlessly burdened by women recruits who could not be used in combat.\" All in all, the proponents of the current MSSA advocated not using government funds to register people who were excluded from the job anyway. The main point of those who favored the registration of females was that females were in favor of it because of gender equality principles; women, as full citizens, ought to have the same civic duties and responsibilities as men.\n\nIn the majority opinion, Justice William Rehnquist wrote \"[t]he existence of the combat restrictions clearly indicates the basis for Congress' decision to exempt women from registration. The purpose of registration was to prepare for a draft of combat troops. Since women are excluded from combat, Congress concluded that they would not be needed in the event of a draft, and therefore decided not to register them.\" Implicit in the obiter dicta of the ruling was to hold valid the statutory restrictions on gender discrimination in assigning combat roles. Men and women, because of the combat restrictions on women, are simply not similarly situated for purposes of a draft or registration for a draft therefore, there is no violation of the Due Process Clause. The Supreme Court therefore reversed the decision of the district court.\n\nWhite, Marshall, and Brennan dissented. Justice White did not think that excluding women “offended the Constitution” but rather that Congress did not “conclude that every position in the military, no matter how far removed from combat, must be filled with combat ready men.” Marshall dissented on the principle of equal civic obligation.\n\n"}
{"id": "50009324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50009324", "title": "S. F. C. Milsom", "text": "S. F. C. Milsom\n\nStroud Francis Charles Milsom QC FBA FRHistS (2 May 1923 – 24 February 2016) was an English legal historian known for fundamentally revising some of the ideas of F.W. Maitland. He was President of the Selden Society from 1985 to 1988. At the time of his death he was emeritus professor of law at St John's College, University of Cambridge.\n\nMilsom was born in Merton, Surrey in 1923. He was educated at Charterhouse and Trinity College, Cambridge, where he read Law.\n\nBetween 1944 and 1945 he worked for Naval Intelligence. He was called to the bar by Lincoln’s Inn in 1947, but never practiced. The same year, he received a Commonwealth Fund Fellowship to the University of Pennsylvania Law School. He was a fellow of New College, Oxford, from 1956 to 1964, when he completed for publication \"Novae Narrationes\", the Selden Society's volume for 1963, later cited in his book \"Historical Foundations of the Common Law\".\n\nHe was Professor of Legal History at the London School of Economics between 1964 and 1976, succeeding to Theodore Plucknett, and he succeeded Plucknett as Literary Director of the Selden Society, 1965-1980. The first edition of his seminal \"Historical Foundations of the Common Law\" was published in 1969. During those years, he also taught occasionally as a visiting professor at Yale Law School. Subsequently, Milsom was the Society's President from 1985 to 1988, succeeding to Geoffrey Elton. From 1976 to 1990 he was Professor of Law at the University of Cambridge. In 1980, he delivered the Selden Society's lecture, on \"The Nature of Blackstone's Achievement\". In 1986 he delivered the Ford Lectures (Oxford) on \"Law and Society in the 12th and 13th centuries\".\n"}
{"id": "31950738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31950738", "title": "Simona Levi", "text": "Simona Levi\n\n\"This article contains material translated .\"\nSimona Levi is a theatre director, playwright, activist, technopolitical strategist, cultural manager and curator, multidisciplinary artist, researcher, reporter, teacher and lecturer. Born in Italy and naturalized Spanish, she has been living in Barcelona, Spain, since 1990. She is a prominent activist in European social movements supporting the free circulation of knowledge, culture and information, e-democracy, strategic use of digital tools for organization, communication, collective action and the struggle against corruption. She has also participated in movements in defense of the right to housing and use of public space.\n\nShe is a key figure in the establishment of Xnet, the Free Culture Forum, the anticorruption movement 15MpaRato, and the Citizens Group against Corruption at both Catalan and Spanish levels.\n\nSimona Levi is coauthor of the book \"Tecnopolítica, internet y r-evoluciones - Sobre la centralidad de redes digitales en el #15M\" and editor of \"Cultura libre digital - Nociones básicas para defender lo que es de todxs\", both of which were published in 2012 by Icaria.\n\nIn March 2017 the Pompeu Fabra University (UPF) of Barcelona announced that Levi would direct the master's degree in Civil Rights, Technopolitics and Digital Culture at the UPF Barcelona School of Management.\n\nA theatre director, actress and dancer by training, Simona Levi studied performing arts at the Jacques Lecoq School in Paris, where she worked as a programmer in the squatter arts space L’oeil du Cyclone. She started touring as an actress with several companies in 1982, eventually settling in Barcelona in 1990. In 1994 she set up Conservas in the city’s Raval neighborhood. This is a venue promoting local, innovative, independent performing arts based on a self-production paradigm.\n\nIn 1999 she founded Compañia Conservas, and that same year the company presented its first stage production, \"Femina Ex Machina\", directed by Levi and Dominique Grandmougin. The piece was awarded the FAD Special Critics Price and the Aplaudiment Award, and toured extensively to festivals and theatres in Europe (Spain, France, the UK, Switzerland, Italy, Slovenia, Norway...) for more than two years. In 2003, again with Dominique Grandmougin, she directed the company’s second work, \"Seven Dust\", which premièred at the Mercat de les Flors in Barcelona. The production toured through several European countries, including Italy, France, Belgium, Switzerland, Finland, Slovenia and Poland. In 2007, with Marc Sampere, she co-directed the third show by Compañia Conservas, \"Realidades Avanzadas\", which questioned representative democracy and the concept of property. This work is based on the open-source model. At the end of the performance, audience members could take home a CD-ROM with the texts, videos, music and images used in the show. The idea for the production was sparked by a video posted on YouTube in October 2006 that denounced real estate speculation and included footage recorded with a hidden camera in the anti-mobbing office at Barcelona City Council. The video was removed from YouTube at the request of the bank La Caixa, which alleged copyright infringement based on the use of images of one of its branches.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2011 Simona Levi directed the Performing and Applied Arts Festival InnMotion, which is held at the Centre de Cultura Contemporània de Barcelona. Since 2008 she has managed the stage production of the oXcars.\n\nShe is scriptwriter and director of the play \"Hazte Banquero - Tarjetas Black: todo lo que quisieron ocultarte\" (Become a Banker: Black Cards, Everything They Wanted to Hide from You), a documentary work staging the “black credit cards” corruption case and revealing the \"modus operandi\" of the top management of the bank Caja Madrid by means of a selection from 447 emails sent to and by the bank’s president Miguel Blesa. The work was premiered in July 2016 in the Poliorama Theatre, Barcelona, as part of the city’s Grec Festival and has also been performed in several venues including the Fernán Gómez Theatre in Madrid and the Rosalia de Castro Theatre in A Coruña. After seeing the show in Madrid, the HSBC whistleblower Hervé Falciani said that he could “see the future” in this dramatization of data.\n\nSimona Levi is one of the founders of eXgae (now Xnet), a non-profit association created in 2008 which explores alternative models for cultural diffusion, copyright and democracy in the digital age. Since 2008, Xnet, with the support of Conservas, has organised the annual oXcars, a non-competitive awards ceremony, which puts the spotlight on projects created in different arts disciplines based on the paradigm of free culture.\n\nAs a member of Xnet, she is director of the staging of the oXcars and also the coordinator of the FCForum, an international arena in which organisations and experts in the field of free/libre knowledge and culture work towards creating a global strategic framework for action and coordination. She is also a founding member of Red Sostenible (Sustainable Network), a citizen platform created in January 2010 to combat the introduction of the anti-download legislation known as the “Sinde Law” in Spain, and to defend Internet rights. The work of this platform would seem to be of concern to the United States government. A cable from the US ambassador in Spain notes that “[…] these populist advocacy groups are very vocal”.\n\nIn 2010, she appeared before the European Union Parliamentary Sub-Committee on Intellectual Property Law reform to defend the proposals contained in the “Charter for Innovation, Creativity and Access to Knowledge”, a document that was drafted collectively by participants of the FCForum. In her presentation, she offered an overview of some of the omissions in the legislation and put forward possible solutions included in the Charter, such as the abolition of Spain’s levy for private copying or “canon digital” and the need to reform copyright collecting societies which, she pointed out, “hinder the free circulation of knowledge and sustainability for authors.”\n\nIn recent years, she has participated as a speaker and observer at national and international events, where she talks about the Xnet project, the situation of free culture, digital democracy, copyright management, and possible alternatives to the present model. These events include the Ministerial Forum for Creative Europe (The Czech Republic), Transmediale (Berlin), Economies of the Commons (Amsterdam) and the seminar “Sustainable Economy Law and the Internet” organized by the Telecommunications Technical Engineering Faculty at the Technical University of Madrid. As a representative of the FCForum, she is a lobbyist at the European Commission.\n\nSimona Levi is a member of the 15M movement in Spain and of the group 15MpaRato, which filed a lawsuit against the banker and former IMF Managing Director Rodrigo Rato, an action that launched the Bankia trial in Spain after an anonymous source used the Xnet anticorruption mailbox to give access to the web domain <nowiki>http://correosdeblesa.com</nowiki> with more than 8,000 emails from the Inbox of Miguel Blesa, president of Caja Madrid from 1996 to 2009. These revealed, for the first time, the existence of the so-called Black Cards (tax-free, corporate credit cards for Caja Madrid–Bankia cronies), how the bank bought and sold the City National Bank of Florida, and how the bank’s customers were defrauded by the preferred stock scheme. In June 2015 Xnet published a selection of the Blesa emails through four online media sources. The National Court admitted the case and charged Rodrigo Rato and the former board of directors with fraud, falsification of accounts in order to attract investment, and improper management, among other crimes.\n\nSimona Levi is a member of the Grupo Ciudadano contra la Corrupción (Citizens Group against Corruption), a network which works at both Catalan and Spanish levels to strengthen already-existing initiatives to protect whistleblowers, coordinate them and facilitate exchange of information among them. The Spanish branch of the Group was presented at the Free Culture Forum 2015 with the support of Xnet, 15MpaRato, David Fernàndez, former member of parliament for the political party CUP (Popular Unity Candidacy), and the Acción Cívica (Civic Action) platform, among others.\n\nIn 2015–2016, as a member of the Advisory Council of the Barcelona City Hall Office for Transparency and Best Practice, she initiated and worked to install the Ethical and Good Governance Box, a complaints box by means of which citizens can denounce corruption and other practices that are damaging for good governance in the city of Barcelona. This mailbox, similar to that already produced by Xnet, is the first such box to be promoted by a government (in this case that of the city of Barcelona). Once the mailbox was presented in public, Levi announced her resignation from the advisory board.\n\nIn 2017 Rolling Stone magazine chose Simona Levi, as the founder of Xnet and for her work with 15MpaRato, as one of 25 people in the world who are shaping the future. \n\nLevi is one of the coordinators of X Party, a Spanish political party that emerged from the 15-M movement (Indignados movement)and was founded on 17 December 2012. She was second on the X Party ballot for the 2014 European Parliament elections, after the party’s first candidate Hervé Falciani.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2899579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2899579", "title": "Sociedad General de Autores y Editores", "text": "Sociedad General de Autores y Editores\n\nThe Spanish Society of Authors and Publishers (\"Sociedad General de Autores y Editores, SGAE\") is the main collecting society for songwriters, composers and music publishers in Spain. It is similar to AGADU, ASCAP, GEMA, SADAIC, SACEM and SAYCO. The philologist, poet, composer, scriptwriter, movie and television director and producer Antón Reixa (1957) is the Chairman of the Board of Directors since May 2012. SGAE was founded in 1889 as Society of Authors of Spain. In 1995, its name changed to Society of Authors and Publishers, seeking to accommodate cultural editors.\n\nSGAE comprises more than 100,000 music, audiovisual and dramatic creators. Created in 1899, its main mission is the protection of its members' rights for the use of their works throughout the world. These uses include mechanical reproduction, public performance, synchronization and many other forms of musical distribution. This process culminates in the collection and subsequent royalty distribution to its members.\n\nWith over 430 employees, more than 200 representatives in Spain, plus offices in the USA, Brazil, Mexico, Cuba and Argentina, SGAE protects the rights of more than two million members from all over the world. It does so through reciprocal representation agreements entered into with 150 foreign societies which, in turn, administer and protect its members rights in their respective territories.\n\nSGAE is not only an organism for the management of rights. Through its Fundación Autor, or in collaboration with cultural institutions, SGAE enhances its compromise to promote the continuous formation of its members and the diffusion of their works around the world, aiding for their well-being, including the start-up of an assistance program with multiple features and social benefits.\n\nIn 2018, SGAE was involved in a television scam known as \"La Rueda\", where TV broadcasters played more of their personally owned music in late-night slots, leaving tens of millions of dollars less each year for other parties whose music is played on Spanish TV.\n\nOne of the main activities of the SGAE is the collection of a blank media tax called “canon”. This tax is aimed to compensate authors for private copies of their work and was incorporated into Spanish law by Law 22/1987 of November 11, Intellectual Property. This law recognized the right of users to make private copies. The fee was intended to levy countervailing audio and video devices such as tapes, stereos or televisions. Its latest version, called “digital canon”, placed the SGAE in the middle of a controversy when trying to extrapolate this charge to digital devices such as CD, DVD, external hard drives and cell phones capable of playing music. The amount payable ranges from 0.17 euros on the price of a CD-R up to 227 euros to be paid to purchase a copier.\n\nThe digital canon was implemented on 18 December 2007, and it introduced the payment of a fee as compensation for private copying that both individuals and companies must pay regardless of the intended use for the device. This has been a main argument of opponents of the blank media tax, who believe that the indiscriminate application of the canon does not respect the presumption of innocence of consumers. However, the Spanish Intellectual Property Law recognizes the right to private copying, so there is no offense to commit, and therefore there is no presumption of innocence. The digital canon has grown unpopular in Spain and the two main Spanish organizations of Internet users had collected three million signatures by February 2010 calling for the abolition of the tax. Many Internet users defend their right to make private copies of the purchased contents without paying any additional fees.\n\nIn July 2018, in response to the \"Rueda\" scandal, Warner/Chappell, Sony/ATV, Universal Music Publishing Group, BMG Rights Management, and Peermusic have attempted to pull their catalogues from SGAE's repertoire by 2019, and may refuse to license their music for broadcast. These publishers account for 60% of Spain's broadcasting rights.\n\nThe private copying levy has traditionally been seen as a compensation for the original authors, transferring payment from analog media to digital media. Apart from the controversy surrounding it in Spain, the tax common among European countries and is seen as a compensation accepted in all European Union countries, provided by Directive 2001/29/EC, which in Article 5 authorizes the various member countries to enter the private copying exception provided that the legislation adequately compensate the original authors. Ireland, United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Malta and Cyprus do not recognize the right to private copying, so no fee is charged. Other countries have opted to compensate the authors directly. This is the case of Norway, where 40 million euros were spent for this purpose during 2010. Outside Europe, the fee is also charged in countries such as Canada, while in the U.S., recording media devices are taxed at a rate of 3%.\n\nIn 2004, the SGAE claimed EUR 16,759.25 to the company PADAWAN, dedicated to the marketing of multimedia devices such as CD, DVD or MP3, to compensate for devices sold between September 2002 and September 2004. PADAWAN took the case to trial, and the Court of Barcelona consulted with the Court of Justice of the European Union if the Spanish tax system for the cultural industry is compatible with Community law. The Court of Justice of European Union General Counsel, Verica Trstenjak, ruled that the application of digital canon in Spain is illegal when imposed indiscriminately on all recording and playing equipment and materials purchased by companies and not only those who presumably are intended for making private copies, the only case in which the digital canon would comply with European legislation. The law states that under no circumstances the canon can be imposed to companies and professionals that clearly acquire the devices for purposes unrelated to private copying.\n\nFollowing the European resolution, digital canon has been strongly questioned by Internet users and some political parties. To achieve parliamentary support for the so-called “Sinde Law”, after the Culture Ministry, Ángeles González-Sinde, approved by the Senate Finance Committee on February 1, 2011 the Spanish Government committed to eliminate the digital fee within three months after the approval of the law, a condition required by the main opposition party, the Partido Popular.\n\nThe SGAE has been involved in several controversies, like charging a fine of €96 to a middle school for trying to make a theatrical play whose rights belonged to Federico García Lorca's heirs. The SGAE denied access to any information or communication to the owners of the rights to the school. The school administrators by their own account finally found the copyright holders, the Centro Dramático Nacional, (whose responsibles weren't informed of the situation at all by their SGAE representatives) and they gladly agreed to the school petition without any charge. However, the SGAE replied that they only acted like intermediaries and had no authority to stop demanding the payment for the copyright of registered works, unless the author or the owners requested so.\n\nFinally, Lorca’s nephew, Manuel Fernández Montesinos, contacted the Ramón Menéndez Pidal middle school to inform that they could play \"Bodas de sangre\" without any charges. A few days later, Montesinos wrote again to the School Principal refusing to lose the copyright's tax since the play was to be represented in a professional theatre and not at the school.\n\nThe SGAE has also claimed copyright for works of authors deceased more than 70 years ago at the time of the claim, a condition that, under European law, deems the works to be of public domain. According to the councils of Zalamea de la Serena (Badajoz), and Fuente Obejuna (Córdoba), the company claimed 24,000 and 30,000 euros respectively to represent the classic Spanish dramas \"El alcalde de Zalamea\" and \"Fuenteovejuna\", whose authors died centuries ago. The problem arises from the fact that many of the represented classic plays are adaptations to current Spanish from an original work’s ancient language, so in those cases a collection of fees is required from the adapter. In both cases, the SGAE rejected the accusations and stated that, in the case of Zalamea de la Serena, the requested quantity was 95 euros.\n\nA common description of SGAE by independent songwriters in Spain is that the organization is made up of pirates who prefer to keep and spend royalty money owed to the writers.\n\nOn 1 July 2011, eight members of the SGAE, including the president, Teddy Bautista, were arrested and charged with embezzlement. The Investigation Committee estimated that as much as 87 million euros were embezzled directly or indirectly from 1997 to 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6807530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6807530", "title": "Statutory declaration", "text": "Statutory declaration\n\nA statutory declaration is a legal document defined under the law of certain Commonwealth nations. It is similar to a statement made under oath, however, it is not sworn. \n\nStatutory declarations are commonly used to allow a person to declare something to be true for the purposes of satisfying some legal requirement or regulation when no other evidence is available. They are thus similar to affidavits (which are made on oath).\n\nDepending on jurisdiction, statutory declarations can be used for:\n\nAustralian law defines a statutory declaration as a written statement declared to be true in the presence of an authorised witness. The \"Statutory Declarations Act 1959\" governs the use of statutory declarations in matters involving the law of the Australian Commonwealth, Australian Capital Territory, and other territories but not including the Northern Territory.\n\nAny person within the jurisdiction of this law may make a statutory declaration in relation to any matter. The declaration may be used in connection with matters of law, including judicial proceedings, but what weight is given to the declaration is a matter for the judge to decide.\n\nStatutory declarations must be made in a prescribed form and witnessed by a person as specified in the \"Statutory Declarations Regulations (1993)\". Prescribed witnesses include legal and medical practitioners, Justices of the Peace, notaries public, police officers, military officers, registered members of certain professional organisations (i.e. National Tax Accountant's Association and Institution of Engineers Australia), and certain other Commonwealth employees.\n\nIntentionally making a false statement as a statutory declaration is a crime equivalent to perjury, and punishable by fines and/or a prison sentence of up to four years.\n\nThe states of Australia each have their own laws regarding statutory declarations.\n\nIn Canadian jurisdictions, statutory declarations are statements of facts written down and attested to by the declarant before individuals who are authorized to administer oaths, except that they are normally used outside of court settings. They have the same effect in law as a sworn statement or affidavit. In federal proceedings, the form is governed by the \"Canada Evidence Act\". Similar provision is made by the various provinces for use in proceedings within their respective jurisdictions.\n\nA person who makes a false declaration can be charged with perjury under the Criminal Code.\n\nStatutory declarations can be used as a method of legally changing one's name. They may be used by UK financial institutions to enable an asset of relatively small value (usually less than £15,000) to be transferred to the executors of a will or other persons legally entitled to deal with or benefit from the estate of a person who has died.\n\nUnder the Statutory Declarations Act 1835, a declaration can be made before anyone who is authorised by law to hear it (for example, a solicitor or legal executive), or before any Justice of the Peace. In addition, officers of the armed services with the equivalent rank of major and above, and British diplomatic and consular officers in post abroad, may authenticate a statutory declaration.\n\nThe person who hears the declaration need not enquire into the truth of it. That person’s function is limited to hearing the declaration, and certifying that he or she has done so by signing it. If the declaration turns out to be untrue, the defendant making it may be punished for perjury.\n\nThe form of the statutory declaration is prescribed in the schedule to the Act:\n\n\"I (full name), do solemnly and sincerely declare that the contents of this declaration are true. And I make this declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act 1835.\"\n\nA standard form is used for a statutory declaration; one copy will be given to the applicant and the other is held on file.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "684389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=684389", "title": "Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty", "text": "Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty\n\nThe Treaty Between the United States of America and the Russian Federation on Strategic Offensive Reductions (SORT), also known as the Treaty of Moscow, was a strategic arms reduction treaty between the United States and Russia that was in force from June 2003 until February 2011 when it was superseded by the New START treaty. At the time, SORT was positioned as \"represent[ing] an important element of the new strategic relationship\" between the two countries with both parties agreeing to limit their nuclear arsenal to between 1,700 and 2,200 operationally deployed warheads each. It was signed in Moscow on 24 May 2002. After ratification by the U.S. Senate and the State Duma, SORT came into force on 1 June 2003. It would have expired on 31 December 2012 if not superseded by New START. Either party could have withdrawn from the treaty upon giving three months written notice to the other.\n\nSORT was one in a long line of treaties and negotiations on mutual nuclear disarmament between Russia (and its predecessor, the Soviet Union) and the United States, which includes SALT I (1969–1972), the ABM Treaty (1972), SALT II (1972–1979), the INF Treaty (1987), START I (1991), START II (1993) and New START (2010).\n\nThe Moscow Treaty was different from START in that it limited operationally deployed warheads, whereas START I limited warheads through declared attribution to their means of delivery (ICBMs, SLBMs, and Heavy Bombers).\n\nRussian and U.S. delegations met twice a year to discuss the implementation of the Moscow Treaty at the Bilateral Implementation Commission (BIC).\n\nThe treaty was submitted for ratification on December 2002. However, the passage of the agreement took about a year because the bill had to be resubmitted after its rejection in committee due to concerns about funding for nuclear forces and about cutting systems that had not yet reached the end of their service lives. Further, the deputies were concerned about the U.S. ability to upload reserve nuclear warheads for a first strike (upload potential).\n\nThe ratification was also problematic because the chairman of the foreign affairs committee of the Duma, Dmitry Rogozin, disagreed with his Federation Council counterpart Margelov. Deputy Rogozin argued that the Moscow Treaty should be delayed because of the 2003 U.S. invasion of Iraq. In the end, however, this delay never happened. The final vote was similar to START II with nearly a third of the deputies voting against. The ratification resolution mandated presidential reporting on nuclear force developments and noted that key legislators should be included in interagency planning.\n\nLawrence Livermore National Laboratory reported that President Bush directed the US military to cut its stockpile of both deployed and reserve nuclear weapons in half by 2012. The goal was achieved in 2007, a reduction of US nuclear warheads to just over 50 percent of the 2001 total. A further proposal by Bush would have brought the total down another 15 percent.\n\nThe treaty was criticized for various reasons:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1974091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1974091", "title": "Synechism", "text": "Synechism\n\nSynechism (from Greek συνεχής \"synechḗs\", \"continuous\" + \"-ism\", from σύν \"syn\", \"together\" + ἔχειν \"échein>\", \"to have\", \"to hold\"), a philosophical term proposed by C. S. Peirce to express the tendency to regard things such as space, time, and law as continuous:\nHis synechism holds that the essential feature in philosophic speculation is continuity. It denies that all is merely ideas, likewise that all is merely matter, and mind–matter dualism.\n\nThe adjective \"synechological\" is used in the same general sense; \"synechology\" is a theory of continuity or universal causation; \"synechia\" is a term in ophthalmology for a morbid union of parts.\n\nPeirce held that there are three elements or categories throughout experience:\n\nPeirce held that firstness and secondness, as elements, give thirdness and continuity something upon which to operate, and that continuity governs all experience and every element in it.\n\nSynechism is specially directed to the question of hypothesis, and holds that a hypothesis is justifiable only on the ground that it provides an explanation. All understanding of facts consists in generalizing concerning them. Generalization is seen as movement by thought toward continuity. The fact that some things are ultimate may be recognized by the synechist without abandoning his standpoint, since synechism is a normative or regulative principle, not a theory of existence.\n\nIn a contribution to an 1887 symposium \"Science and Immortality\", Peirce had said that the question stood undecided on whether there is immortality or at least \"a future life\", but also that science could come to shed light on the question.\n\nIn an 1893 manuscript \"Immortality in the Light of Synechism,\" Peirce applied his doctrine of synechism to the question of the soul's immortality in order to argue in the affirmative. According to Peirce, synechism flatly denies Parmenides' claim that \"Being is, and non-being is nothing\" and declares instead that \"being is a matter of more or less, so as to merge insensibly into nothing.\" Peirce argued that the view that \"no experiential question can be answered with absolute certainty\" (fallibilism) implies the view that \"the object has an imperfect and qualified existence\" and implies, furthermore, the view that there is no absolute distinction between a phenomenon and its substrate, and among various persons, and between waking and sleeping; one who takes on a role in creation's drama identifies to that extent with creation's author. Carnal consciousness, according to Peirce's synechism, does not cease quickly upon death, and is a small part of a person, for there is also social consciousness: one's spirit really does live on in others; and there is also spiritual consciousness, which we confuse with other things, and in which one is constituted as an eternal truth \"embodied by the universe as a whole\": that eternal truth \"as an archetypal idea can never fail; and in the world to come is destined to a special spiritual embodiment.\" Peirce said in conclusion that synechism is not religion but scientific philosophy, but could come to unify religion and science.\n\nAround 1906, Peirce reaffirmed some of the above forms of immortality, but added, \"If I am in another life it is sure to be most interesting; but I cannot imagine how it is going to be me. At the same time, I really don't know anything about it,\" and that mental action's dependence on the brain was an assumption warranted in science by facts until contrary facts come to light, but from the standpoint of practical interest the dependence remained open to some doubt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4330288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4330288", "title": "Timor Gap Treaty", "text": "Timor Gap Treaty\n\nOfficially known as the Treaty between Australia and the Republic of Indonesia on the zone of cooperation in an area between the Indonesian province of East Timor and Northern Australia, the Timor Gap Treaty is a treaty between the governments of Australia and Indonesia. The signatories to the treaty were then Australian Foreign Affairs Minister Gareth Evans and then Indonesian Foreign Minister Ali Alatas. The treaty was signed on December 11, 1989 and came into force on February 9, 1991.\n\nIt provided for the joint exploitation of petroleum resources in a part of the Timor Sea seabed which were claimed by both Australia and Indonesia.\n\nThe portion of the seabed was known as the Timor Gap as it formed a break or gap in the Australia-Indonesia maritime border which had been earlier agreed to because Portugal, the administering power of East Timor, did not wish to participate in a separate round of boundary negotiations as they were already under discussion at the Conference on the Law of the Sea. After the Indonesia invasion and annexation of the colony in 1975–1976, East Timor was made a province of Indonesia and both Australia and Indonesia began negotiations to solve issues arising over claims to the seabed in the area.\n\nLess than two weeks after the treaty came into force, Portugal instituted proceedings against Australia at the International Court of Justice. As Portugal was still recognized by the U.N. as the lawful administering power of East Timor, Portugal requested to dispute the lawfulness of Australia's negotiations as a party to the Timor Gap Treaty on behalf of the people of East Timor. The court ruled that it could not adjudicate the dispute as it would require the court to rule upon the lawfulness of Indonesia's annexation of East Timor, a decision that could not be made, nor could it become binding, without the consent of Indonesia. the court ruled 14 to 2 with Judge Weeramantry and Judge Skubiszewski dissenting.\n\nJudge Skubiszewski condemned the ruling of the court, stating that his primary opposition to the ruling was that, \"recognition of annexation erodes self-determination.\" And that the courts adherence to legal correctness alone had been to the detriment of justice and was, \"cause for concern.\"\n\nThe treaty was no longer in force when East Timor seceded from Indonesia in 1998. A new treaty to replace the Timor Gap Treaty was negotiated, resulting in the Timor Sea Treaty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5974393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5974393", "title": "Tony Honoré", "text": "Tony Honoré\n\nAnthony Maurice Honoré (born 30 March 1921) is a British lawyer and jurist, known for his work on ownership, causation and Roman law.\n\nHonoré was born in London but was brought up in South Africa. He served in the South African Infantry during the Second World War and was severely wounded in the Battle of Alamein. After the war he continued his studies at New College, Oxford, and he has lived and taught in Oxford for the last seventy years, including periods as a Fellow of The Queen's College and then of New College. Between 1971 and 1988 he was Regius Professor of Civil Law at Oxford and a Fellow of All Souls College, Oxford; for nearly thirty years after retiring from his Chair, he taught seminars in Jurisprudence for the BCL jointly with John Gardner.\n\nHonoré was a close associate of H. L. A. Hart. They jointly wrote \"Causation in the Law\" (Oxford, 1st ed. 1959, 2nd 1985) in 1953-8 and Honoré had some influence on Hart's \"The Concept of Law\" (Oxford, 1st ed. 1961, 2nd 1994). A number of his philosophical papers are collected in \"Making Law Bind\" (Oxford, 1987) and \"Responsibility and Fault\" (Oxford, 1999) and his contributions to legal philosophy and Roman law, which range widely, include sixteen books and more than a hundred articles published over the last six decades.\n\nHonoré is an honorary Q.C. and Bencher of Lincoln's Inn, a member of the British and Bavarian Academies and of the International Academy of Comparative Law. In South Africa, his standing has been recognised by the award of honorary degrees from the Universities of South Africa, Stellenbosch and Cape Town. When receiving this last degree, in 1990, he had the opportunity to give an address. He used this opportunity to point to the parallel between the extension of citizenship to all free people in the Roman Empire, regardless of race, sex or religion, by Caracalla in 211 AD, and the extension of citizenship to the whole of the South African population. This he foresaw would need an adjustment of the legal system, and he suggested a constitutional court to carry it through with a parallel to the composition of the German Constitutional Court. Nelson Mandela approved of this. It was put into practice in 1995, and has been a success.\n\nHe has delivered the Hamlyn lectures (1982), the Blackstone and H. L. A. Hart lectures, the J. H. Gray lectures at Cambridge and the Maccabaean lecture in Jurisprudence at the British Academy. Three Festschriften have been published in his honour.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "303951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303951", "title": "Vince McMahon", "text": "Vince McMahon\n\nVincent Kennedy McMahon (; born August 24, 1945) is an American professional wrestling promoter and executive, American football executive, businessman, film producer, actor and sporadic professional wrestler. Since taking over the company from his father in the 1980s, he has worked in the corporate area of the WWE and behind the scenes. He currently serves as the majority owner, chairman and CEO of WWE as well as founder of Alpha Entertainment, which is the holding company of the American football league known as the XFL.\n\nMcMahon has also served as an announcer and professional wrestler in WWE—using a gimmick known by the ring name Mr. McMahon, based on his real life persona. He is a two-time world champion, having won the WWF Championship in 1999 and the ECW World Championship in 2007. He was the 1999 Royal Rumble winner. He headlined multiple WWF/WWE pay-per-view events from 1999 to 2000 and participated in the main event of WrestleMania 2000 as a cornerman for The Rock. In singles competition, he holds victories over former WWF/WWE Champions Ric Flair, The Undertaker, Shawn Michaels and Triple H. He continues his backstage and on-screen roles as the main authority figure along with the rest of the McMahon family.\n\nA third-generation wrestling promoter (following his grandfather Jess and father Vincent), McMahon is married to former WWE CEO and current American SBA Administrator Linda McMahon, with whom he has two children, son Shane and daughter Stephanie. He is the father-in-law of WWE executive/wrestler Paul \"Triple H\" Levesque and has six grandchildren.\n\nVincent Kennedy McMahon was born on August 24, 1945 in Pinehurst, North Carolina, the younger son of Victoria (Askew) and Vincent James McMahon. His father left the family when McMahon was still a baby and took his elder son Rod with him, therefore McMahon did not meet him until age twelve. McMahon's paternal grandfather was promoter Roderick James \"Jess\" McMahon, whose parents were Irish emigrants from County Galway. His paternal grandmother, Rose Davis, was also of Irish descent. McMahon was raised as Vinnie Lupton and spent the majority of his childhood living with his mother and a string of stepfathers. He claimed that one of his stepfathers, Leo Lupton, used to beat his mother and attacked McMahon when he tried to protect her. He said, \"It is unfortunate that he died before I could kill him. I would have enjoyed that.\" He attended Fishburne Military School in Waynesboro, Virginia, graduating in 1964. In his early life, he also overcame dyslexia.\n\nMcMahon first met the promoter for Capitol Wrestling Corporation (CWC), his father Vincent J. McMahon, at the age of 12. At that point, McMahon became interested in following his father's professional wrestling footsteps and often accompanied him on trips to Madison Square Garden. McMahon wanted to be a wrestler, but his father did not let him, explaining that promoters did not appear on the show and should stay apart from their wrestlers.\n\nIn 1968, McMahon graduated from East Carolina University with a business degree and after a nondescript career as a traveling salesman, he was eager to assume a managerial role in his father’s World Wide Wrestling Federation promotion (although the elder McMahon was not thrilled with the idea of his son entering the business). In 1969, McMahon made his debut as an in-ring announcer for the WWWF's \"All-Star Wrestling\". In 1971, he was assigned to a small territory in Maine, where he promoted his first card. He later became the play-by-play commentator for television matches after he replaced Ray Morgan in 1971, a role he regularly maintained until November 1997.\n\nThroughout the 1970s, McMahon became the prominent force in his father's company and, over the next decade, assisted his father in tripling TV syndication. He pushed for the renaming of the company to the World Wrestling Federation (WWF). The younger McMahon was also behind the Muhammad Ali versus Antonio Inoki match of 1976. In 1979, the younger McMahon and his wife Linda founded their own company, Titan Sports, which was incorporated in the following year and in 1982 - when McMahon was aged 37 - acquired control of the Capitol Wrestling Co. from his ailing father (who died in May 1984).\n\nOn February 21, 1980, McMahon officially founded Titan Sports, and the company's headquarters were established in South Yarmouth, Massachusetts, using the now defunct Cape Cod Coliseum as a home base for the company. At the time of his purchase of the WWF, professional wrestling was a business run by regional promotions. The various promoters shared an understanding that they would not invade each other’s territories, as this practice had gone on undeterred for decades; McMahon had a different vision of what the industry could become. In 1983, the WWF split from the National Wrestling Alliance a second time, after initially splitting from them in 1963 before rejoining them in 1971. The NWA was the governing body for all the regional territories across the country and as far away as Japan.\n\nHe began expanding the company nationally by promoting in areas outside of the company's Northeast U.S. stomping grounds and by signing talent from other companies, such as the American Wrestling Association (AWA). In 1984, he recruited Hulk Hogan to be the WWF’s charismatic new megastar, and the two quickly drew the ire of industry peers as the promotion began traveling and broadcasting into rival territories. Nevertheless, McMahon (who still also fronted as the WWF’s squeaky clean babyface announcer) created \"The Rock 'n' Wrestling Connection\" by incorporating pop music stars into wrestling storylines. As a result, the WWF was able to expand its fanbase into a national mainstream audience as the promotion was featured heavily on MTV programming. On March 31, 1985, he ran the first WrestleMania at Madison Square Garden, available on closed circuit television in various markets throughout the U.S.\n\nDuring the late 1980s, McMahon shaped the WWF into a unique sports entertainment brand that reached out to family audiences while attracting fans who had never before paid attention to pro wrestling. By directing his storylines towards highly publicized supercards, McMahon capitalized on a fledgling revenue stream by promoting these events live on PPV television. In 1987, the WWF reportedly drew 93,173 fans to the Pontiac Silverdome (which was called the \"biggest crowd in sports entertainment history\") for WrestleMania III, which featured the main event of Hulk Hogan versus André the Giant.\n\nAfter struggling against Ted Turner's World Championship Wrestling (WCW), McMahon cemented the WWF as the preeminent wrestling promotion in the late 1990s, when he initiated a new brand strategy that eventually returned the WWF to prominence. Sensing a public shift towards a more hardened and cynical fan base, McMahon redirected storylines towards a more adult-oriented model. The concept became known as \"WWF Attitude\", and McMahon commenced the new era when he manipulated the WWF Championship away from Bret Hart at Survivor Series in what is now known as the \"Montreal Screwjob.\" McMahon, who for years had downplayed his ownership of the company and was mostly known as a commentator, became involved in WWF storylines as the evil Mr. McMahon, who began a legendary feud with Stone Cold Steve Austin, who challenged the boss’s authority. As a result, the WWF suddenly found itself back in the midst of national pop-culture, drawing millions of viewers for its weekly \"Monday Night Raw\" broadcasts, which ranked among the highest-rated shows on cable television.\n\nIn October 1999, McMahon led the WWF in an initial public offering of company stock. McMahon acquired the fading WCW from Turner Broadcasting System on March 23, 2001, bringing an end to the Monday Night Wars. On April 1, 2001, Extreme Championship Wrestling filed for bankruptcy, leaving WWF as the last major wrestling promotion at that time.\n\nIn 1979, Vince and Linda purchased the Cape Cod Coliseum and the Cape Cod Buccaneers of the Atlantic Coast Hockey League. In addition to pro wrestling and hockey, they began selling out rock concerts, including Van Halen and Rush, in non-summer months, traditionally considered unprofitable due to lack of tourists. This venture led the McMahons to join the International Association of Arena Managers, learning the details of the arena business and networking with other managers through IAAM conferences, which Linda later called a \"great benefit\" to WWE's success.\n\nIn 1990, McMahon founded the World Bodybuilding Federation a bodybuilding organization.\n\nIn 2000, McMahon again ventured outside the world of professional wrestling by launching the XFL, a professional American football league. The league began in February 2001, with McMahon making an appearance at the first game. However, the XFL quickly folded after one season due to low television ratings.\n\nIn February 2014, McMahon helped launch an over-the-top streaming service known as WWE Network.\n\nIn 2017, McMahon established and personally funded a separate entity from WWE, Alpha Entertainment. McMahon streamed a major announcement live regarding the new company on Jan 25th, 2018 at 3pm ET/2pm CT. During the live stream, McMahon announced the resurrection of the XFL.\n\nPrior to the evolution of the Mr. McMahon character, McMahon was primarily seen as an commentator on television, with his behind-the-scenes involvement generally kept off TV for kayfabe-based reasons. While he did publicly identify himself as the owner of the WWF outside of WWF programming, on TV his ownership of the WWF was considered an open secret through the mid-1990s. Jack Tunney was portrayed as the president of WWF instead of him.\n\nMcMahon made his commentary debut in 1971 when he replaced Ray Morgan after Morgan had a pay dispute with McMahon's father, Vincent J. McMahon, shortly before a scheduled TV taping. The elder McMahon let Morgan walk instead of giving into his demands and needed a replacement on the spot, offering it to his son. For the younger McMahon, it was also somewhat of a compromise, as it allowed him to appear on television. McMahon wanted to be a wrestler but his father did not let him, explaining that promoters did not appear on the show and should stay apart from their wrestlers.\n\nMcMahon eventually became the regular play-by-play commentator and maintained that role until November 1997, portraying himself as easily excited and over-the-top. In addition to matches, McMahon also hosted other WWF shows, and introduced WWF programming to TBS on Black Saturday, upon the WWF's acquisition of Georgia Championship Wrestling and its lucrative Saturday night timeslot (McMahon sold the timeslot to Jim Crockett Promotions after the move backfired on him and he eventually acquired JCP's successor company, World Championship Wrestling, from AOL Time Warner in 2001). At the 1987 Slammy Awards, McMahon performed in a musical number and sang the song \"Stand Back\". The campy \"Stand Back\" video has since resurfaced several times over the years as a running gag between McMahon and any face wrestler he is feuding with at that particular time, and was included on the 2006 \"McMahon\" DVD.\n\nAs with most play-by-play commentators, McMahon was a babyface \"voice of the fans\", in contrast to the heel color commentator, usually Jesse Ventura, Bobby Heenan or Jerry Lawler. While most of McMahon's on-screen physicality took place during his \"Mr. McMahon\" character later in his career, he was involved in physical altercations on WWF television only a few times as a commentator or host; in 1985, when Andre the Giant grabbed him by the collar during an interview on \"Tuesday Night Titans\" (Andre had become irritated at McMahon's questions regarding his feud with Big John Studd and their match at the first WrestleMania); on the September 28, 1991 episode of \"WWF Superstars of Wrestling\", when Roddy Piper mistakenly hit him with a folding chair aimed at Ric Flair (requiring McMahon to be taken out of the arena on a stretcher), and again on the November 8, 1993 episode of \"Monday Night Raw\", when Randy Savage hurled him to the floor in an attempt to attack Crush after McMahon attempted to restrain him. McMahon can also be seen screaming at medics and WWF personnel during the May 26, 1990 episode of \"WWF Superstars of Wrestling\" (after Hulk Hogan was attacked by Earthquake during a segment of \"The Brother Love Show\"), when Hogan was not moved out of the arena quickly enough.\n\nWhile the Mr. McMahon character marked the first time that McMahon had been portrayed as a villain in WWF, in 1993, McMahon was engaged in a feud with Jerry Lawler as part of a cross-promotion between the WWF and the United States Wrestling Association (USWA). As part of the angle, McMahon sent various WWF wrestlers to Memphis in order to dethrone Lawler as the \"king of professional wrestling\". This angle marked the first time that McMahon physically interjected himself into a match, as he occasionally tripped and punched at Lawler while seated ringside. During the angle, McMahon was not acknowledged as the owner of the WWF, and the feud was not acknowledged on WWF television, as the two continued to provide commentary together (along with Randy Savage) for the television show \"Superstars\". The feud also helped build toward Lawler's match with Bret Hart at SummerSlam. The peak of the angle came with Tatanka defeating Lawler to win the USWA Championship with McMahon gloating at Lawler while wearing the championship belt. This storyline came to an abrupt end when Lawler was accused of raping a young girl in Memphis, and he was dropped from the WWF. He returned shortly afterward, however, as the girl later stated that the rape accusations were lies.\n\nThroughout late 1996 and into 1997, McMahon slowly began to be referred to as the owner on WWF television while remaining as the company's lead play-by-play commentator. On the September 23, 1996 \"Monday Night Raw\", Jim Ross delivered a worked shoot promo during which he ran down McMahon, outing him as chairman and not just a commentator for the first time in WWF storylines. This was followed up on the October 23 \"Raw\" with Stone Cold Steve Austin referring to then-WWF President Gorilla Monsoon as \"just a puppet\" and that it was actually McMahon \"pulling all the strings\". The March 17, 1997 \"WWF Raw Is War\" is cited by some as the beginning of the Mr. McMahon character, as after Bret Hart lost to Sycho Sid in a steel cage match for the WWF Championship, Hart engaged in an expletive-laden rant against McMahon and WWF management. This rant followed Hart shoving McMahon to the ground when he attempted to conduct a post-match interview. McMahon, himself, returned to the commentary position and nearly cursed out Hart before being calmed down by Ross and Lawler.\n\nMcMahon largely remained an commentator after the Bret Hart incident on \"Raw\". On September 22, 1997, on the first-ever \"Raw\" to be broadcast from Madison Square Garden, Bret's brother Owen Hart was giving a speech to the fans in attendance. During his speech, Stone Cold Steve Austin entered the ring with five NYPD officers following, and assaulted Hart. When it appeared Austin would fight the officers, McMahon ran into the ring to lecture him that he could not physically compete; at the time, Austin was recovering from a broken neck after Owen Hart botched a piledriver in his match against Austin at SummerSlam. After telling McMahon that he respects the fact that he and the WWF cared, Austin attacked McMahon with a Stone Cold Stunner, leaving McMahon in shock. Austin was then arrested on charges of trespassing, assault, and assaulting a police officer. This marked the beginning of the Austin-McMahon rivalry.\n\nAt Survivor Series in 1997, Bret Hart defended his WWF Championship against long-time rival Shawn Michaels in the main event. During the match, Michaels applied Hart's own signature submission maneuver The Sharpshooter on Hart. Though Hart did not submit, McMahon ordered the referee to ring the bell, thus screwing Hart out of the title and making Michaels the champion and making McMahon turn heel for the first time on WWF television. This incident was subsequently dubbed the \"Montreal Screwjob\". Following the incident, McMahon left the commentary table for good (Jim Ross replaced McMahon as lead commentator) and the Mr. McMahon character began.\n\nIn December 1997 on \"Raw Is War\", the night after , McMahon talked about the behavior and attitude of Stone Cold Steve Austin, such as Austin having assaulted WWF Commissioner Sgt. Slaughter and commentators such as Jim Ross and McMahon himself. Mr. McMahon demanded that Austin defend his Intercontinental championship against The Rock in a rematch. As in the previous match, Austin used his pickup truck as a weapon against The Rock and the Nation of Domination gang. Austin decided to forfeit the title to The Rock, but instead Austin gave The Rock a \"Stone Cold Stunner\" and knocked McMahon off the ring ropes.\n\nOn the January 19, 1998 episode of Raw Is War, McMahon called Mike Tyson to the ring for a major announcement. Before McMahon could make the announcement (that Tyson would serve as a ringside enforcer at Wrestlemania XIV for the WWE World title match between Stone Cold Steve Austin and Shawn Michaels) Austin interrupted and confronted Tyson culminating with Austin displaying his middle finger right in Tyson's face. Tyson shoved Austin at which point WWE security and Tyson's entourage intervened and separated both men. McMahon was incensed by Austin's actions screaming \"YOU RUINED IT\" and had to be held back from attacking Austin himself. \n\nOn the March 2 edition of Raw Is War, Mike Tyson joined D-Generation X, led by WWE World Champion Shawn Michaels. A week later, Austin called out McMahon incensed by Tyson's alignment with Michaels. Austin verbally abused McMahon and attempted to provoke a clearly agitated McMahon into hitting him (Austin) but McMahon left. On the following episode of Raw Is War, McMahon claimed he hadn't hit Austin on the previous episode of Raw as he didn't want to ruin the Wrestlemania XIV main event. Asked to explain what this meant, McMahon stated Austin would be unable to compete with a broken jaw. After initial attempts to dodge the question of whether he wanted Austin to become WWF Champion, McMahon finally answered with \"it's not just a \"no\", it's a OH HELL NO\" mimicking Austin's \"hell yeah\" catchphrase. McMahon didn't get involved during the Wrestlemania XIV main event during which Mike Tyson turned on Shawn Michaels and assisted Austin in becoming WWE Champion. \n\nOn the March 30 \"Raw Is War\", the night after Austin won the WWF title at WrestleMania XIV, McMahon presented him with a new title belt and warned Austin that he did not approve of his rebellious nature. Austin responded by delivering the \"Stone Cold Stunner\" to McMahon for the second time. On the April 13 episode of Raw Is War, it appeared Austin and McMahon were going to battle out their differences in an actual match, but the match was declared a no contest when Dude Love interfered. This marked the first time since June 10, 1996 that \"Raw\" beat WCW's \"Nitro\" in the ratings. This led to a title match between Love and Austin at , for which McMahon sat ringside and attempted to assist Love in winning the match. Love ultimately did win by disqualification when Austin hit McMahon with a chair. Austin retained the title which couldn't change hands by disqualification under regular match rules. In a title rematch at , Austin again retained, despite McMahon being the referee and his \"Corporate Stooges\", Gerald Brisco and Pat Patterson, as timekeeper and ring announcer, respectively. While McMahon was incapacitated by an accidental Love chair shot, Austin delivered the \"Stone Cold Stunner\" to Love and used McMahon's hand to count his pinfall victory.\n\nIn the fall of 1998, McMahon said he was \"damn sick and tired\" of seeing Stone Cold Steve Austin as the WWF Champion and developed a \"master plan\" to remove the championship from Austin. By employing the services of The Undertaker and Kane, McMahon set up a triple threat match for the WWF championship at , in which Undertaker and Kane could only win by pinning Austin. At Breakdown, Austin lost the title after being pinned simultaneously by both Undertaker and Kane. However, no new champion was crowned. The following night on \"Raw Is War\", McMahon attempted to announce a new WWF Champion. He held a presentation ceremony, and introduced The Undertaker and Kane. After saying that both deserved to be the WWF Champion, Austin drove a Zamboni into the arena, and attacked McMahon before police officers stopped him, and arrested him. Because The Undertaker and Kane both failed to defend McMahon from Austin, McMahon did not name a new champion, but instead made a match at Judgment Day between The Undertaker and Kane with Austin as the special referee. This prompted The Undertaker and Kane to attack Mr. McMahon, injuring his ankle because he gave them the finger behind their backs.\n\nAt Judgement Day, there was still no champion crowned as Austin declared himself the winner after counting a double pinfall three count for both men. McMahon ordered the WWF Championship to be defended in a 14-man tournament named Deadly Games at Survivor Series in 1998. McMahon made sure that Mankind reached the finals because Mankind had visited McMahon in hospital after McMahon was sent to the hospital by the Undertaker and Kane. He also awarded Mankind the WWF Hardcore Championship due to his status as a hardcore wrestling legend. Originally, McMahon was acting as he if he was helping out Mankind during the match. At one point, The Rock turned his attention to McMahon. McMahon turned on Mankind after a screwjob, however, as The Rock had caught Mankind in the Sharpshooter. Mankind had not submitted but McMahon ordered the referee to ring the bell, thus giving The Rock the WWF Championship. This was an homage to the \"Montreal Screwjob\" that occurred one year earlier. McMahon referred to The Rock as the \"Corporate Champion\" thus forming the Corporation with his son Shane and The Rock. At , Mankind defeated The Rock to win the WWF Championship after The Rock passed out to the Mandible Claw. McMahon, however, screwed Mankind once again by reversing the decision and returning the belt to his chosen champion, The Rock. McMahon participated in a \"Corporate Rumble\" on the January 11, 1999 \"Raw\" as an unscheduled participant, but was eliminated by Chyna.\n\nMcMahon restarted a long-running feud with Stone Cold Steve Austin when, in December 1998, he made Austin face the Undertaker in a Buried Alive match with the Royal Rumble qualification on the line. Austin defeated the Undertaker with help from Kane. McMahon had put up $100,000 to anyone who could eliminate Austin from the Royal Rumble match. At Royal Rumble, thanks to help from the Corporation's attack on Austin in the women's bathroom during the match (Austin and McMahon went under the ropes, not over them as the Royal Rumble rules require for an elimination to occur along with the 'Shawn Michaels Rule', in which both feet must touch the floor after going over the top rope) and The Rock distracting Austin, McMahon lifted Austin over the top rope from behind, thus winning the match and earning a title shot at WrestleMania XV against the WWF Champion The Rock. He turned down his spot, however, and WWF Commissioner Shawn Michaels awarded it to Austin, which infuriated McMahon. Austin decided to put his title shot on the line against McMahon so he could get a chance to fight Vince at in a steel cage match. During the match, Big Show — a future member of the Corporation — interrupted, making his WWF debut. He threw Austin through the side of the cage thus giving him the victory.\n\nThe Corporation started a feud with The Undertaker's new faction the \"Ministry of Darkness\", which led to a storyline introducing McMahon's daughter Stephanie. Stephanie played an \"innocent sweet girl\" who was kidnapped by The Ministry twice. The first time she was kidnapped, she was found by Ken Shamrock on behalf of McMahon in a basement of the stadium. The second time she was kidnapped, The Undertaker attempted to marry her whilst she was forcefully tied to the Ministry's crucifix, but she was saved by Steve Austin. This angle saw a brief friendship develop between McMahon and Austin, cooling their long running feud. McMahon became a member of the short-lived stable The Union, during May 1999. McMahon's son Shane merged the Corporation with Undertaker's Ministry of Darkness to form the Corporate Ministry. On the June 7 episode of \"Raw Is War\", McMahon was revealed as the \"Higher Power\" behind the Corporate Ministry. This not only reignited McMahon's feud with WWF Champion Austin but also caused a kayfabe disgusted Linda and Stephanie McMahon to give their 50% share of the WWF to Austin.\n\nAt King of the Ring, Vince and Shane defeated Austin in a handicap ladder match to regain control of the WWF. While CEO, Austin had scheduled a WWF Championship match, to be shown on \"Raw Is War\" after King Of The Ring. During the match, Austin defeated the Undertaker once again to become the WWF Champion. At Fully Loaded, Austin was again scheduled for a match against The Undertaker. If Austin lost, he would be banned from wrestling for the WWF Championship again; if he won, Vince McMahon would be banned from appearing on WWF TV. Austin defeated The Undertaker, and McMahon was banned from WWF TV.\n\nMcMahon returned as a face in the fall of 1999 and won the WWF Championship in a match against Triple H, thanks to outside interference from Austin on the September 16 \"SmackDown!\". He had decided to vacate the title during the following Monday's \"Raw Is War\", because he was not allowed on WWF TV because of the stipulations of the Fully Loaded 1999 contract he signed. However, Stone Cold Steve Austin reinstated him in return for a WWF title shot. Over the next few months McMahon and Triple H feuded, with the linchpin of the feud being Triple H's storyline marriage to Stephanie McMahon. The feud culminated at Armageddon in 1999; McMahon faced Triple H in a No Holds Barred match which McMahon lost. Afterward, Stephanie turned on him, revealing her true colors. McMahon, along with his son Shane, then disappeared from WWF television, unable to accept the union between Triple H and Stephanie. This left Triple H and Stephanie in complete control of the WWF.\n\nMcMahon returned to WWF television on the March 13, 2000 \"Raw Is War\" helping The Rock win his WWF title shot back from the Big Show. He also attacked Shane McMahon and Triple H. Two weeks later, McMahon and The Rock defeated Shane McMahon and The Big Show in a tag team match with help from special guest referee Mankind. At WrestleMania 2000, Triple H defended the WWF Championship in a Fatal Four-Way Elimination match in which each competitor had a McMahon in his corner. Triple H had his wife Stephanie McMahon who was also the WWF Women's Champion in his corner, The Rock had Vince McMahon in his corner, Mick Foley had Linda McMahon in his corner, and Big Show had Shane in his corner. After Big Show and Foley were eliminated, Triple H and The Rock were left. Although Vince was in The Rock's corner, he turned on The Rock after hitting him with a chair, turning heel for the first time since his feud with Stone Cold Steve Austin, which helped Triple H win the match and retain his title. This began the McMahon-Helmsley Era.\nAt King of the Ring, McMahon, Shane, and WWF Champion Triple H took on The Brothers of Destruction (The Undertaker and Kane) and The Rock in a six-man tag team match for the WWF Championship. The stipulation of this match was that whoever made the scoring pinfall would become the WWF Champion. McMahon was pinned by The Rock. McMahon was then absent from WWF television until late 2000. On the December 4 episode of \"Raw Is War\", McMahon questioned the motives of WWF Commissioner Mick Foley and expressed concern of the well being of the six superstars competing in the Hell in a Cell match at Armageddon. On the December 18 episode of \"Raw Is War\", McMahon faced Kurt Angle in a non-title match which was fought to no contest when Mick Foley interfered and attacked both men. After the match, both men beat Foley and McMahon fired him.\n\nMcMahon then began a public extramarital affair with Trish Stratus, much to the disgust of his daughter, Stephanie. However, on the February 26 episode of \"Raw\", McMahon and Stephanie humiliated Trish by dumping sewage on her, with McMahon adding that Stephanie will always be \"daddy's little girl\" and Trish was only \"daddy's little toy\". McMahon and Stephanie then aligned together against Shane, who'd returned and had enough of Vince's actions in recent months. At WrestleMania X-Seven, McMahon lost to Shane after Linda—who had been emotionally abused to the point of a nervous breakdown; the breakdown was caused after Vince demanded a divorce on the December 7 episode of \"SmackDown!\"; the breakdown left her helpless as she was deemed unable to continue being CEO of the WWF at the time, giving Vince 100% authority; finally, she was heavily sedated, in the storyline—hit Vince with a low blow. On the same night, McMahon formed an alliance with Stone Cold Steve Austin, helping him defeat The Rock to gain another WWF Championship. The two, along with Triple H, formed an alliance. Austin and Triple H put The Rock out of action with a brutal assault and suspension; this was done so The Rock could film \"The Scorpion King\". Austin and Triple H held all three major WWF titles at the same time. The alliance was short lived, due to an injury to Triple H and a business venture by McMahon.\n\nMcMahon purchased long-time rival promotion World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in March 2001 from AOL Time Warner and signed many wrestlers from the organization. This marked the beginning of the Invasion storyline, in which the former WCW wrestlers regularly fought matches against the WWF wrestlers. On the July 9, 2001 episode of \"Raw Is War\", some extremists as well as several former ECW wrestlers on the WWF roster, joined with the WCW wrestlers to form The Alliance. Stone Cold Steve Austin joined the Alliance, along with Shane and Stephanie McMahon. Vince McMahon led Team WWF. At Survivor Series, Team WWF defeated Team Alliance in a Survivor Series elimination match to pick up the victory for WWF and end the Invasion storyline.\n\nFollowing the collapse of The Alliance, McMahon created the \"Vince McMahon Kiss My Ass Club\", also known as the \"Mr. McMahon Kiss My Ass Club\", which consisted of various WWE individuals being ordered to kiss his buttocks in the middle of the ring, usually with the threat of suspension or firing if they refused. The club was originally proclaimed closed by The Rock after McMahon was forced to kiss Rikishi's buttocks on an episode of \"SmackDown!\".\nIn November 2001, Ric Flair returned to WWF after an eight-year hiatus declaring himself the co-owner of the WWF, which infuriated McMahon. The two faced each other in January 2002, at Royal Rumble, in a Street Fight which Flair won. Due to their status as co-owners, McMahon became the owner of \"SmackDown!\" while Flair became the owner of \"Raw\". However, on the June 10 \"Raw\", McMahon defeated Flair to end the rivalry and become the sole owner of WWE.\nOn the February 13, 2003 \"SmackDown!\", McMahon tried to derail the return of Hulk Hogan after a five-month hiatus but was knocked out by Hogan and received a running leg drop. At No Way Out, McMahon interfered in Hogan's match with The Rock. Hogan had originally won the match as he hit The Rock with a running leg drop, but the lights went out. When the lights came back on, McMahon came to the ringside to distract Hogan. Sylvain Grenier, the referee, gave The Rock a chair, which he then hit Hogan with. He ended the match with a Rock Bottom to defeat Hogan. This led to McMahon facing Hogan in a match at WrestleMania XIX, which McMahon lost in a Street Fight. McMahon then banned Hogan from the ring but Hogan returned under the gimmick of \"Mr. America\". McMahon tried to prove that Mr. America was Hogan under a mask but failed at these attempts. Hogan later quit WWE and at which point McMahon claimed that he had discovered Mr. America was Hulk Hogan and \"fired\" him.\nMcMahon asked his daughter Stephanie to resign as SmackDown! General Manager on the October 2 \"SmackDown!\". Stephanie, however, refused to resign and this set up an \"I Quit\" match between the two. At No Mercy, McMahon defeated Stephanie in an \"I Quit\" match when Linda threw in the towel. Later that night, he helped Brock Lesnar retain the WWE Championship against The Undertaker in a Biker Chain match. This started a rivalry between McMahon and Undertaker. At Survivor Series, McMahon defeated Undertaker in a Buried Alive match with help from Kane.\n\nHe began a feud with Eric Bischoff in late 2005, when he decided that Bischoff was not doing a good job as General Manager of \"Raw\". He started \"The Trial of Eric Bischoff\" where McMahon served as the judge. Bischoff ended up losing the trial; McMahon \"fired\" him, and put him in a garbage truck before it drove away. Bischoff stayed gone for months. Almost a year later on \"Raw\" in late 2006, Bischoff was brought out by McMahon's executive assistant Jonathan Coachman so that he could announce the completion of his book \"Controversy Creates Cash\". Bischoff began blasting remarks at McMahon, saying that he was fired \"unceremoniously\" as the \"Raw\" General Manager, that there would be no McMahon if not for Bischoff's over-the-top rebellious ideas, and that D-Generation X was nothing but a rip off of the New World Order.\nOn the December 26, 2005 \"Raw\", Vince personally reviewed . Shawn Michaels came out and he also started talking about Hart. McMahon replied, \"I screwed Bret Hart. Shawn, don't make me screw you\". At the 2006 Royal Rumble, when Michaels was among the final six remaining participants after eliminating Shelton Benjamin, McMahon's entrance theme music distracted Michaels, allowing Shane McMahon to eliminate him. On the February 27 \"Raw\", Michaels was knocked unconscious by Shane. When Michaels' former Rockers tag team partner Marty Jannetty came to the rescue of Michaels, he was forced to join McMahon's \"Kiss My Ass Club\". On the March 18 edition of \"Saturday Night's Main Event\", Michaels faced Shane in a Street Fight. McMahon screwed Michaels while Shane had Michaels in the Sharpshooter. Michaels had not submitted, but McMahon ordered the referee to ring the bell, giving Shane the victory (another Montreal Screwjob reference). At WrestleMania 22, Vince McMahon faced Michaels in a No Holds Barred match. Despite interference from the Spirit Squad and Shane, McMahon was unable to beat Michaels. At Backlash, Vince McMahon and his son Shane defeated Michaels and \"God\" (characterized by a spotlight) in a No Holds Barred match.\n\nOn the May 15 \"Raw\", Triple H hit Shane with a sledgehammer meant for Michaels. The next week on \"Raw\", Triple H had another chance to hit Michaels with the object but he instead whacked the Spirit Squad. For a few weeks, McMahon ignored Michaels and began a rivalry with Triple H by forcing him to join \"Kiss My Ass Club\" (Triple H hit McMahon with a Pedigree instead of joining the club) and pitting him in a gauntlet handicap match against the Spirit Squad. Michaels, however, saved Triple H and the two reformed D-Generation X (DX). This led to a feud between the McMahons and DX, throughout the following summer. He also with the Spirit Squad teaming with Shane lost to Eugene by disqualification on July 10. At SummerSlam in 2006, the McMahons lost to DX in a tag team match despite interference by Umaga, Big Show, Finlay, Mr. Kennedy, and William Regal. The McMahons also allied themselves with the ECW World Champion Big Show. At Unforgiven, the McMahons teamed up with The Big Show in a Hell in a Cell match to take on DX. Despite their 3-on-2 advantage, the McMahons lost again to DX thus ending the rivalry.\n\nIn January 2007, McMahon started a feud with Donald Trump, which was featured on major media outlets. Originally Trump wanted to fight McMahon himself but they came to a deal: both men would pick a representative to wrestle at WrestleMania 23 in a Hair vs. Hair match. The man whose wrestler lost would have his head shaved bald. After the contract signing on \"Raw\", Trump pushed McMahon over the table in the ring onto his head after McMahon provoked Trump with several finger pokes to the shoulders. Later at a press conference, McMahon, during a photo opportunity, offered to shake hands with Trump but retracted his hand as Trump put out his. McMahon went on to fiddle with Trump's tie and flick Trump's nose. This angered Trump as he then slapped McMahon across the face. McMahon was then restrained from retaliating by Trump's bodyguards and Bobby Lashley, Trump's representative. At WrestleMania 23, McMahon's representative (Umaga) lost the match. As a result, McMahon's hair was shaved bald by Trump and Lashley with the help of Steve Austin, who was the special guest referee of the \"Battle of the Billionaires\" match.\n\nMcMahon then began a rivalry with Lashley over his ECW Championship. At Backlash, McMahon pinned Lashley in a 3-on-1 handicap match teaming up with his son Shane and Umaga to win the ECW Championship. At Judgment Day, McMahon defended his ECW Championship against Lashley again in a 3-on-1 handicap match. Lashley won the match as he pinned Shane after a Dominator but McMahon said that he was still the champion because Lashley could only be champion if he could beat him. McMahon finally lost the ECW Championship to Lashley at One Night Stand in a Street Fight despite interference by Shane and Umaga.\n\nOn June 11, 2007, WWE aired a segment at the end of \"Raw\" that featured McMahon entering a limousine moments before it exploded. The show went off-air shortly after, and WWE.com reported the angle within minutes as though it were a legitimate occurrence, proclaiming that McMahon was \"presumed dead\". Although this was the fate of the fictional \"Mr. McMahon\" character, no harm came to the actual person; the \"presumed death\" of McMahon was part of a storyline. WWE later acknowledged to CNBC that he was not truly dead.\n\nThe June 25 \"Raw\" was scheduled to be a three-hour memorial to \"Mr. McMahon\". However, due to the actual death of Chris Benoit, the show opened with McMahon standing in an empty arena, acknowledging that his reported death was only of his character as part of a storyline. This was followed by a tribute to Benoit that filled the three-hour timeslot. McMahon's last appearance on WWE television until August 6, 2007 was the next night on \"ECW on Sci Fi\" in which after acknowledging that a tribute to Benoit had aired the previous night, he announced that there would be no further mention of Benoit due to the circumstances becoming apparent, and that the ECW show would be dedicated to those that had been affected by the Benoit murders. On the August 6 show, McMahon said that he faked his death to see what people really thought of him, with Stephanie accused of faking mourning while checking her father's last will and testament to see how it would benefit her.\nThe \"Mr. McMahon\" character officially returned on the August 6 \"Monday Night Raw\". He talked about many subjects, including an investigation by the United States Congress and owing money to the IRS. McMahon also declared a battle royal to determine a new \"Raw\" General Manager, which was won by William Regal. At the end of \"Raw\", Jonathan Coachman informed McMahon of a (storyline) paternity suit regarding an illegitimate long-lost child, who was revealed in the following weeks as being a male member of the WWE roster. On the September 3 \"Raw\", McMahon appeared and was confronted by his family. They were interrupted by Mr. Kennedy, who claimed to be McMahon's \"illegitimate son\". He was himself interrupted by a lawyer claiming Kennedy was not McMahon's son and that the real son would be revealed the next week on \"Raw\". His illegitimate son was finally revealed on September 10 on \"Raw\" as Hornswoggle. In February 2008, after months of \"tough love\" antics towards Hornswoggle, John \"Bradshaw\" Layfield revealed that Hornswoggle was not McMahon's son and that he was actually Finlay's son. It turned out that the scam was thought up by Shane, Stephanie and Linda McMahon, along with Finlay.\nOn the June 2 \"Raw\", McMahon announced that, starting the next week, he would give away US$1,000,000 live on \"Raw\". Fans could register online, and each week, randomly selected fans would receive a part of the $1,000,000. McMahon's Million Dollar Mania lasted just three weeks and was suspended after the 3-hour Draft episode of \"Raw\" on June 23. After giving away $500,000, explosions tore apart the \"Raw\" stage, which fell and collapsed on top of McMahon. On June 30, Shane addressed the WWE audience before \"Raw\", informing the fans that his family had chosen to keep his father’s condition private. In addition, he also urged the WWE roster to stand together during what he described as a \"turbulent time\". The McMahons made several requests to the wrestlers for solidarity, before finally appointing Mike Adamle as the new general manager of \"Raw\" in order to restore order to the brand.\n\nOn the January 5, 2009 \"Raw\", Chris Jericho told Stephanie McMahon that McMahon would be returning to \"Raw\" soon. The following week, Jericho was (kayfabe) fired from WWE by Stephanie. On the January 19 \"Raw\", McMahon returned, as a face, and supported his daughter's decision on Jericho, but Stephanie rehired him. Randy Orton then came out and assaulted McMahon after harassing Stephanie. McMahon returned on the March 30 \"Raw\" with his son, Shane, and son-in-law Triple H to confront Orton. The night after WrestleMania XXV, McMahon appeared on \"Raw\" to announce Orton would not receive another championship opportunity at Backlash, but compete in a six-man tag team match with his Legacy stablemates against Triple H, Shane McMahon and himself. \"Raw\" General Manager Vickie Guerrero made the match for the WWE Championship. Orton then challenged McMahon to a match that night, in which Legacy assaulted him, and Orton also hitting him with the RKO. After being assisted by Triple H, Shane and a returning Batista, McMahon announced Batista would replace him in the match at Backlash. On the June 15 \"Raw\", McMahon announced that he had sold the \"Raw\" brand to businessman Donald Trump. The next week, during the \"Trump is Raw\" show, McMahon bought the brand back from Trump. On the June 29 \"Raw\", McMahon announced that every week, a celebrity guest host would control \"Raw\" for the night. He soon appeared on \"SmackDown\", putting Theodore Long on probation for his actions. On August 24 \"Raw\", McMahon had a birthday bash which was interrupted by The Legacy, and competed in a six-man tag team match with his long-time rival team DX, in which they won after the interference of John Cena. He continued to appear on \"SmackDown\", making occasional matches and reminding Long that he is still on probation. On the November 16 \"Raw\", McMahon was called out by guest host Roddy Piper, who wanted a match with McMahon that night in Madison Square Garden. McMahon declined, and announced his retirement from in-ring competition.\n\nOn the January 4, 2010 \"Raw\", McMahon, once again a heel, confronted special guest host Bret \"The Hitman\" Hart for the (televised) first time since the Montreal Screwjob at Survivor Series 1997, with the intention of burying the hatchet from the above-mentioned Montreal Screwjob. The two appeared to finally bury the hatchet, but after shaking hands, Vince kicked Hart in the groin and left the arena to a loud chorus of boos and the crowd chanting \"You screwed Bret! You screwed Bret!\". A match was then booked between the two at WrestleMania XXVI, which saw Hart defeat McMahon in a No Holds Barred Lumberjack match. On the May 31 \"Raw\", McMahon returned to congratulate Hart on becoming the new Raw General Manager. On the June 22 \"Raw\", McMahon fired Hart for not dealing with \"NXT\" season one rookies, known as The Nexus. That same night, he announced the new General Manager would be anonymous and make decisions via emails, which would be read by Michael Cole. The General Manager's first decision was McMahon to be the guest referee for a WWE Championship match that night between John Cena and Sheamus. The match was interrupted by The Nexus who then attacked McMahon. McMahon appeared in a segment on the November 1 \"Raw\", in a coma from the attack by The Nexus. He woke up and his doctor (Freddie Prinze Jr.) explained what had happened since he had been out. The scene transitioned to Stephanie McMahon waking up, revealing it was all a dream.\n\nIn early 2011, McMahon once again stepped away from WWE story-lines in order to focus on both his corporate and backstage duties.\n\nOn the June 27 episode of \"Raw\", CM Punk made a scathing-on air speech criticizing WWE and McMahon about the way WWE was run. McMahon suspended Punk, but reinstated him at the behest of Punk's Money in the Bank opponent, WWE Champion John Cena. At the pay-per-view, McMahon and Vice President of Talent Relations John Laurinaitis interfered on Cena's behalf but Punk was ultimately successful and walked out of the company with the championship. On the following \"Raw\", Triple H returned and, on behalf of WWE's board of directors, fired McMahon from his position of running \"Raw\" and \"SmackDown\", though leaving him chairman of the board. Triple H then announced he himself had been designated Chief Operating Officer of WWE. McMahon returned on the October 10 \"Raw\", firing Triple H from running \"Raw\", stating the board of directors had called Triple H a financial catastrophe, and that the WWE employees had voted no confidence in him the previous week. He subsequently appointed Laurinaitis as the interim general manager of \"Raw\".\n\nOn June 11, 2012, McMahon returned to give a job evaluation to John Laurinaitis. After a conflict with Cena and Big Show that saw McMahon accidentally knocked out by Big Show, McMahon declared that if Big Show lost his match at No Way Out, Laurinaitis would be fired. Cena defeated Big Show in a steel cage match, and McMahon fired Laurinaitis. McMahon announced AJ as \"Raw\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s new general manager at \"Raw 1000\" and made Booker T SmackDown's new general manager on August 3 episode of \"SmackDown\". After CM Punk interrupted him on the October 8 episode of \"Raw\", he challenged Punk to a match, threatening to fire him if he declined. The match did not officially start, but McMahon held his own in a brawl with Punk until Punk attempted the GTS. Ryback and Cena interfered and McMahon ultimately booked Punk in a match with Ryback at Hell in a Cell.\n\nDuring the buildup for the 2013 Royal Rumble, McMahon told CM Punk that if The Shield interfered in his match with The Rock, Punk would forfeit his title. During the match, the lights went out and Rock was attacked by what appeared to be The Shield, leading to Rock's loss. Vince came out and restarted the match at Rock's request and Rock was victorious. The next night on \"Raw\", while conducting a performance review on Paul Heyman, he was assaulted by the returning Brock Lesnar, who attacked him with the F-5. According to WWE.com, McMahon broke his pelvis and required surgery. Vince sought revenge on Heyman and faced him in a street fight on the February 25 episode of \"Raw\", but Lesnar again interfered, only for Triple H to interfere as well, setting up a rematch between Lesnar and Triple H at WrestleMania 29. From June 2013, members of the McMahon family began to dispute various elements of the control of WWE, such as the fates of Daniel Bryan, and of \"Raw\" and \"SmackDown\" General Managers Brad Maddox and Vickie Guerrero. After Triple H and Stephanie created The Authority, McMahon celebrated Randy Orton's victory at with them, but stepped aside from his on-screen authority role in early 2014 in order to evaluate Triple H and Stephanie's control of the company.\n\nMcMahon returned on the November 3, 2014 episode of \"Raw\", making a stipulation that if Team Cena had defeated Team Authority at Survivor Series, The Authority would be removed from power. Team Cena won the match, but McMahon gave John Cena the option to reinstate The Authority. McMahon returned on the December 14, 2015 episode of \"Raw\", aligning himself with The Authority, by confronting Roman Reigns over his attack on Triple H at the pay-per-view. McMahon granted Reigns a rematch for the WWE World Heavyweight Championship against Sheamus, with the stipulation that if he failed to win the championship he would be fired. During the match, McMahon interfered on Sheamus' behalf but was attacked by Reigns, who then pinned Sheamus to win the WWE World Heavyweight Championship. On the December 28 episode of \"Raw\", McMahon was arrested for assaulting an NYPD officer and resisting arrest after a confrontation with Roman Reigns. McMahon made himself special guest referee in Reigns' rematch against Sheamus on the January 4, 2016 episode of \"Raw\", where Reigns won after McMahon was knocked out and another referee made the decision. With his plan foiled, McMahon retaliated by announcing after the match that Reigns would defend his title at the Royal Rumble against 29 other men in the Royal Rumble match, which was won by Triple H.\n\nOn the February 22, episode of \"Raw\", McMahon presented the first ever \"Vincent J. McMahon Legacy of Excellence\" Award to Stephanie before being interrupted Shane McMahon, who returned to WWE for the first time in over six years, confronting his father and sister, and claiming that he wanted control of \"Raw\". This led to Vince book Shane against The Undertaker at WrestleMania 32 in a Hell in a Cell match with the stipulation that if Shane won, he would have full control of \"Raw\" and The Undertaker would be banned from competing in any future WrestleMania. On the April 4 episode of \"Raw\", McMahon gloated about Shane's loss at WrestleMania the previous night, before Shane came out, accepted his defeat and said goodbye, leading McMahon to allow Shane to run that nights show, after feeling upstaged by his son. After Shane ran \"Raw\" for the rest of April, at Payback, McMahon announced Shane and Stephanie had joint control.\n\nOn the April 3, 2017 episode of \"Raw\", McMahon returned to announce Kurt Angle as the new Raw General Manager and the upcoming Superstar Shake-up.\n\nOn September 5, it was announced that McMahon would make an appearance on the September 12 episode of \"SmackDown Live\". At the end of that night as a face, McMahon confronted Kevin Owens, who was unhappy about Vince's son Shane attacking him the week before, which resulted in Shane being suspended. McMahon was furious about the heinous words regarding his family, and how Owens was not respectful, and how he planned to prosecute everybody who wronged him. McMahon warned him that his lawsuit would result in him being fired, but McMahon has the cash to deal with that empty threat. This prompted Owens to say Shane put his hands on him, but McMahon said he suspended Shane for not finishing off Owens. Shane was then reinstated to face Owens at the \"Hell in a Cell\" pay-per-view. Owens then attacked McMahon, leaving him laying in the ring. Even with several referees present, Owens still continued to attack McMahon, and splashed down on him from atop one of the ring posts, resulting in McMahon being (kayfabe) injured. Stephanie McMahon also returned to help her father, as he was attended to by WWE officials.\n\nOn January 22, 2018, McMahon returned on \"Raw 25 Years\" to address the WWE Universe, only to later turn on them by calling them \"cheap\" turning heel once again. He was later confronted, and stunnered, by Stone Cold Steve Austin. On March 12, McMahon made an appearance in a backstage segment with Roman Reigns, announcing that Reigns would be suspended for his recent actions.On SmackDown 1000 McMahon returned as face once again after dancing on TruthTV.\n\nIn 2001, McMahon was interviewed by \"Playboy\" and performed an interview with his son Shane for the second issue of the magazine that year. In March 2006, at age 60, McMahon was featured on the cover of \"Muscle & Fitness\" magazine. On August 22, 2006, a two-disc DVD set showcasing McMahon's career was released. The DVD is simply titled \"McMahon\". The box art symbolizes the blurred reality between Vince McMahon the person and Mr. McMahon the character. \"McMahon\" features a profiling of the Mr. McMahon character, such as the rivalries with wrestlers, on-screen firings, and antics. In addition, the DVD features the profiling of Vince's business life, such as acquiring WCW and ECW and the demise of the XFL. McMahon's top nine matches of his professional wrestling career are also included in \"McMahon\". In March 2015, at age 69, McMahon was once again featured on the cover of \"Muscle & Fitness\" magazine.\n\nMcMahon married Linda McMahon on August 26, 1966 in New Bern, North Carolina. The two met in church when Linda was 13 and Vince was 16. At that time, McMahon was known as Vince Lupton, using his stepfather's surname. They were introduced by Vince's mother, Vicky H. Lupton (now Vicky H. Askew). They have two children, Shane and Stephanie, both of whom have spent time in the WWF/E both onscreen and behind the scenes. Shane left the company on January 1, 2010 (later returning in 2016), while Stephanie continues to be active in a backstage role and onscreen.\n\nMcMahon has six grandchildren: Declan James, Kenyon Jesse, and Rogan Henry McMahon, sons of Shane and his wife Marissa; and Aurora Rose, Murphy Claire, and Vaughn Evelyn Levesque, daughters of Stephanie and her husband Paul \"Triple H\" Levesque.\n\nAs of 2006, McMahon has a $12 million penthouse in Manhattan, New York; a $40 million mansion in Greenwich, Connecticut; a $20 million vacation home; and a 47-foot sports yacht named \"Sexy Bitch\". His wealth has been noted at $1.1 billion, backing up WWE's claim he was a billionaire for 2001, although he was reported to have since dropped off the list between 2002 and 2013. In 2014, McMahon had an estimated net worth of $1.2 billion. On May 16, 2014, McMahon's worth dropped to an estimated $750 million after his WWE stock fell $350 million due to a price drop following disappointing business outcomes. In 2015, McMahon returned to the list with an estimated worth of $1.2 billion. In 2018, his net worth reached $2.8 billion \n\nMcMahon and his wife have donated to various Republican Party causes, including $1 million in 2014 to federal candidates and political action committees, such as Karl Rove's American Crossroads and the research and tracking group America Rising. The McMahons have donated $5 million to Donald Trump's charity, the Donald J. Trump Foundation. The McMahons donated over $8 million in 2008, giving grants to the Fishburne Military School, Sacred Heart University, and East Carolina University. \"Nonprofit Quarterly\" noted the majority of the McMahons' donations were towards capital expenditures. In 2006, they paid $2.5 million for construction of a tennis facility in Ebensburg, Pennsylvania. The McMahons have supported the Special Olympics since 1986, first developing an interest through their friendship with NBC producer Dick Ebersol and Susan Saint James, who encouraged them to participate.\n\nOn April 3, 1992, Rita Chatterton, a former referee noted for her stint as Rita Marie in the WWF in the 1980s and for being the first female referee in the WWF (possibly in professional wrestling history), made an appearance on Geraldo Rivera's show \"Now It Can Be Told\". She claimed that on July 16, 1986, McMahon tried to force her to perform oral sex on him in his limousine and, when she refused, raped her.\n\nOn February 1, 2006, McMahon was accused of sexual harassment by a worker at a tanning bar in Boca Raton, Florida. At first, the charge appeared to be discredited because McMahon was in Miami for the 2006 Royal Rumble at the time. It was soon clarified that the alleged incident was reported to police on the day of the Rumble, but actually took place the day before. On March 25, it was reported that no charges would be filed against McMahon as a result of the investigation.\n\nIn 1993, McMahon was indicted in federal court after a steroid controversy engulfed the promotion and thus temporarily ceded control of the WWF to his wife Linda. The case went to trial in 1994, where McMahon was accused of distributing steroids to his wrestlers. One prosecution witness was Kevin Wacholz, who had wrestled for the company in 1992 as \"Nailz\" and who had been fired after a violent confrontation with McMahon. Wacholz testified that McMahon had ordered him to use steroids, but his credibility was called into question during his testimony as he made it clear he \"hated\" McMahon.\n\nThe jury acquitted McMahon of the charges.\n\n\n\n\n"}
