{"id": "17546648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17546648", "title": "ASHRAE Handbook", "text": "ASHRAE Handbook\n\nThe ASHRAE Handbook is the four-volume flagship publication of the nonprofit technical organization ASHRAE (formerly American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers). This Handbook is considered the practical repository of knowledge on the various topics that form the field of heating, ventilation, air-conditioning, and refrigeration (HVAC&R).\n\nThe four volumes are \"Fundamentals\", \"Refrigeration\", \"HVAC Applications\" (\"Applications\"), and \"HVAC Systems and Equipment\" (\"Systems and Equipment\"). Members of ASHRAE receive the current volume, in both print and CD-ROM form, each year as a basic membership benefit. An enhanced electronic version, known as \"ASHRAE Handbook Online\" is a web-based version updated annually that contains the four latest volumes as well as extra content such as calculations, demonstration videos, and spreadsheets. The various versions of the Handbook are typically available to the public via technical, and other, libraries and bookstores.\n\nThe ASHRAE Handbook has had a variety of titles. It began in 1922 as the ASH&VE Guide. In 1973 it became the ASHRAE Handbook, and in 1985 separate publication of inch-pound (I-P) and international system (SI) units versions of the volumes began. The current publisher of record is W. Stephen Comstock, and the Editor is Mark S. Owen. The Handbook is published by ASHRAE from its headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nThe Handbook's content is created and modified by volunteers via ASHRAE's many Technical Committees (TCs), and then edited and formatted by professional staff at ASHRAE. For example, three chapters, in three different volumes, are maintained by TC 5.3, Room Air Distribution. Each chapter within a particular volume is reviewed and revised in a repeating four-year cycle; one volume is printed each year. In the summer of 2017 the new Fundamentals volume was released. ASHRAE's Handbook Committee maintains an \"Authors and Revisers Guide\" which can be obtained freely via the Handbook portion of the ASHRAE Web site.\n\nWhile each new or revised chapter manuscript is to be reviewed for technical content by each TC voting and corresponding member before publication, there are often many other pre- and post-publication reviewers. For example, members of the Society's Handbook Committee and the College of Fellows review chapters each year. Reviews, from basic comments to detailed new content, are encouraged from all users of the Handbook and may be submitted through an on-line commenting system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25249675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25249675", "title": "A Field Guide to the Birds of Australia (Pizzey)", "text": "A Field Guide to the Birds of Australia (Pizzey)\n\nA Field Guide to the Birds of Australia was first published in 1980 by Collins, Sydney. It was authored by Graham Pizzey with illustrations by Roy B. Doyle. The first edition was issued in octavo format, 220 mm in height by 140 mm width, with a foreword by Dr D.L. Serventy. It contained 460 pages of text with 32 black-and-white and 56 colour plates illustrating nearly all species of birds recorded in Australia at the time of publication. The plates were bunched between pages 300 and 301, while there were 725 maps of breeding distribution on pages 411-442 between the main text and the indexes, as well as maps of Australia in the end papers. Its success was such that it was followed by several further editions.\n\nIn the preface to the seventh edition, Sue, Caroline, Sarah and Tom Pizzey explain some of the background to the work: \n\"\"The Field Guide to the Birds of Australia\" was first published in 1980, after more than fifteen years in the making. While it has continued to evolve through numerous reprints and revised editions, taking in new information, taxonomic changes, and changes in the way information has been presented, the voice throughout has remained resolutely that of its author, Graham Pizzey.\"Following the death of Graham, our husband and father, in late 2001 it soon became clear that we were all keen to see the Guide continue. After all, the entire family was there at its inception and development: travelling to various corners of the continent as Graham took countless photographs and recorded observations in the field. An article in the \"Herald\" in July 1967 shows the three Pizzey children sprawled on the living-room floor, poring over a map as we traced the journey we were about to make up through the Centre and down the west coast. The ‘Big Trip’ was to form the basis of the research for the first edition of the Guide, and was to give us an indelible appreciation of the natural world. And we’ve been involved in various ways ever since: looking at proofs, being asked for an opinion on an illustration or cover, or listening to an attempt to capture the call of a bird on paper. Responsible for providing his own children with an extraordinary childhood, this Guide is now being enjoyed by Graham’s small grandchildren. Its continuing relevance underpins our desire to see it remains in print, updated and augmented regularly.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45295028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45295028", "title": "Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Sculpture Garden", "text": "Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Sculpture Garden\n\nThe Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Sculpture Garden is an outdoor courtyard at the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan, New York City. Designed by notable architect Philip Johnson, the courtyard was conceived at the same time as Johnson's West Wing annex for the museum. Construction began in the spring on 1952 and was completed in April 1953.\n\nThroughout its history, the garden has served as the temporary setting for notable artworks including Alexander Calder's \"Black Widow\" (1959), Anthony Caro's \"Midday\" (1960), Pablo Picasso's \"She-Goat\" (1950), as well as providing a space for innovative exhibitions like \"8 AUTOMOBILES\" (1951) and \"Italy: The New Domestic Landscape\" (1972).\n\n \n"}
{"id": "30602416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30602416", "title": "Alexander Comstock Kirk", "text": "Alexander Comstock Kirk\n\nAlexander Comstock Kirk (November 26, 1888 – March 23, 1979) was a United States diplomat.\n\nAlexander Comstock Kirk was born in Chicago, Illinois, on November 26, 1888, the son of James Alexander Kirk (1840–1907) and Clara Comstock (1851–1936). His family lived in Hartland, Wisconsin. Their wealth derived from one of America's largest soap manufacturing concerns, which was founded by Kirk's grandfather in Utica, New York, in 1839, relocated to Chicago in 1860, and capitalized as James S. Kirk & Co. in 1900. James Alexander Kirk was a director of the company. Its 2 national brands were \"American Family\" for laundry and \"Juvenile\" for the bath.\n\nKirk was \"fat\" and \"unhappy\" in childhood and enjoyed drawing. At age 9, he attended the Art Institute of Chicago until his family decided he was too young to be drawing nude models. He was then sent to work incognito in a soap factory until his identity was discovered. He was then tutored at home for half the year by Hughell Fosbroke, future head of the General Theological Seminary of New York, spending the other half traveling in Europe with his mother and sister.\n\nKirk attended the University of Chicago for one year and then Yale University, where he excelled in physics and graduated in 1909. He appeared with the Yale University Dramatic Association in 1908-09. Kirk's father died of a heart attack in 1907.\n\nHe next spent 2 years at the School of Political Sciences in Paris. In order to fulfill his mother's promise to his late father, he earned his law degree from Harvard Law School in 1914. He was admitted to the Illinois bar. He joined the board of the family business at a salary of $10,000 a year.\n\nKirk had two sisters, Gertrude 24 years his senior and Margaret his near contemporary. His sister Margaret married Albert Billings Ruddock in New York's Cathedral of Saint John the Divine in March 1912. The couple left for Berlin following the ceremony. Ruddock was Third Secretary of the American Embassy in Berlin in 1913, when Mrs. Kirk visited the couple there. In 1954 Ruddock became Chairman of the Board of Trustees of California Institute of Technology, where an undergraduate residence hall was named for him in 1960.\n\nKirk joined the American Diplomatic Service on March 6, 1915.\n\nIn 1916, he was transferred from his post as Secretary of the Embassy in Berlin to a position in Constantinople.\n\nKirk served as private secretary to the Secretary of State during World War I and accompanied him in that position to the 1919 Paris Peace Conference. He then lived in \"a commodious old house in Georgetown with his mother to act as hostess on the occasion of his entertainments,\" until posted to Peking as Secretary of the Embassy.\n\nHe managed the State Department budget for a time in the 1920s, and later said he thought it \"an obligation\" to spend the entire amount in order to support the argument for additional appropriations.\n\nKirk was Counselor of the U.S. Embassy in Rome in 1932. His mother was presented to Queen Elena of Italy on March 9, 1932. She lived in Rome during his service there, and Kirk entertained important guests at her home, the Villa Spada on the Janiculum. Even in 1930, long before rising to ambassadorial rank, he entertained lavishly. He hosted an opera party for Mrs. William Randolph Hearst on her 1930 tour of Europe.\n\nKirk was assigned to Moscow as Embassy Counselor and consul general effective March 18, 1938, where he was the senior official in the 9-month interim between the service of Ambassadors Davies and Steinhardt.\n\nHe served as Chargé d'affaires in Berlin beginning in May 1939 and became the senior officer when the American ambassador, Hugh R. Wilson, was recalled to protest the anti-Jewish attacks of Kristallnacht. Though his status was too low to allow access to important officials in the German government, he communicated with them by staging conversations close to a device the Germans used to eavesdrop on his conversations. \"Time\" called him \"adroit\" in his \"uncomfortable post.\" He developed contacts with Germans who opposed the Nazi regime and became convinced, in spite of Germany's early victories, that the war would end badly for Germany. Discussing with noted dissident Helmuth James von Moltke the need for Germany to suffer complete defeat with no one to blame but its Nazi leaders, he said: \"Do you want to know my solution? It's a flood without an ark.\" During the war, in 1943, Moltke twice tried without success to contact Kirk, whom he trusted as an intermediary between the German opposition and the Allies.\n\nKirk served briefly as Embassy Counselor in Rome before becoming Minister to Egypt in 1941, when \"Time\" magazine described him as \"smooth, spare.\"\n\nFrom March 29, 1941, to March 29, 1944, Kirk served as Ambassador to Egypt, first as head of the U.S. Legation and then of the Embassy. He advised the State Department in 1941 that a Jewish state \"is incapable of realization in the future unless imposed by force on an unwilling native population.\" Under Secretary of State Sumner Welles did not share his assessment and did not forward Kirk's views to the White House. Drawing on his experience with Nazi propaganda and antisemitism in Germany, Kirk expanded the embassy's coverage of Arabic-language broadcasts, providing complete translations of what came to be known as the \"Axis Broadcasts in Arabic\" along with his weekly analysis from 1941 to 1944, which Hull circulated widely. He dissected the Nazi's manipulation of anti-colonial, anti-Jewish, and anti-Bolshevik sentiment and their charges that Roosevelt and Churchill were being manipulated by their Jewish supporters. At the beginning of his Cairo tenure, Kirk focused on the strategic necessity of Allied victory in the Middle East because it would be impossible to counter the Nazi's exploitation of an Axis victory in its propaganda. Once the Allies won control of the region, he stressed political analysis and repeatedly underscored the critical role of the Egyptian capital in Arab nationalism. As Kirk looked to the end of the war, he anticipated a post-colonial world in which nations operated freely in a free enterprise environment, unlike Secretary of State Cordell Hull who expected the persistence of traditional spheres of influence, notably that of Great Britain in Egypt. While posted to Cairo, Kirk kept one house in the city for lunch, another near the pyramids for dinner and sleeping, and a houseboat on the Nile. He hosted FDR, Churchill, and Chiang Kai-shek at the second house for the November 1943 Cairo Conference. He has been described as \"an archeological dilettante\" who liked to lecture his guests as they gazed at the pyramids. Clare Boothe Luce claimed to have flummoxed him by pre-empting his performance by asking: \"Mr. Ambassador, what \"are\" those strange-looking objects?\"\n\nAlong with several military men Kirk devised the successful plan to attack Rommel's communications instead of his ground forces. He later received the United States of America Typhus Commission Medal for his support of the Commission's work during his time in Egypt.\n\nWhile resident in Cairo, Kirk was also accredited to the government-in-exile of Greece until November 13, 1941, and to Saudi Arabia until July 18, 1943.\n\nKirk was appointed U.S. representative on the Allied Advisory Council for Italy, with the rank of ambassador, on April 4, 1944. He was appointed Ambassador to Italy on November 30, 1944, and in January 1945 became the first ambassador of any country to present his credentials to the new Italian government. Upon his appointment, \"Time\" gave him the title \"suave Career Man.\" He resigned in 1946. When the American Office of War Information produced an Italian-language publication, Kirk insisted it be labeled propaganda to maintain a clear distinction between what Italians were accomplishing for themselves or not.\n\nIn August 1945, he received petitions from Russian prisoners of war, taken by the Germans and liberated by Allied forces. They wrote to him in his role as Political Advisor to Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force (SHAEF) and claimed the status of \"political refugees\" and asked \"in the name of humanity\" not to be repatriated to the Soviet Union. Kirk wrote to Secretary of State Byrnes seeking guidance, a diplomatic way of expressing his reservations about the repatriation policy. He was instructed to make certain none of the prisoners was actually from Poland or the Baltic States and to proceed with the repatriations.\n\nKirk was long famous for entertaining and continued even when forced to operate in Rome \"under a wartime minimum.\" Six or eight guests joined him for lunch or dinner, often many more. One Friday lunch he hosted about 20 enlisted men. Though some involved in recruiting the guests worried that a Negro corporal might not be well received, Kirk gave him the place of honor on his right.\n\n\"Life\" described him near the end of his career: \"To call Kirk an ornament of the State Department is almost a libelous understatement...Kirk's true value resides in the fact that he is an American who, far from being an innocent abroad, knows Europe infinitely better than most Europeans. This makes him almost unique in the current roster of U.S. foreign representatives in the diplomatic, charitable, or didactic spheres. Kirk's career should be studied in detail, like \"The Education of Henry Adams\".\" \"Fortune\" in July 1946 called him \"foppish, intelligent, and very rich.\"\n\nKirk predicted in 1945 that future diplomats should be technical experts \"chosen for the ability not only to diagnose economic, industrial and political trends, but also to adjust their dislocations before they can start wars.\" He lamented the willingness of governments to spend on wars far more than on the diplomacy that might prevent them.\n\nA few years after Kirk's retirement, as Senator Joseph McCarthy launched a campaign against suspected homosexuals in government, one investigator's 1948 report charged that State Department employees Carmel Offie and Charles W. Thayer \"were very close personal friends of former Ambassador Alexander Kirk who is not now in the service but who had a very bad reputation of being a homosexual and certainly protected a lot of homosexual people.\"\n\nIn the 1920s, when he was Counselor to the American Embassy in Rome, Kirk remodeled a significant building in Georgetown, the Robinson house, at the corner of Wisconsin Avenue and R Street and \"filled it with furniture, rugs, hangings and objects of art brought from the Orient.\" In 1942 he sold this estate, including its \"elaborate formal gardens, outsize ballroom, marble-floored billiard room, and swimming pool,\" to Evalyn Walsh McLean, mining heiress and owner of the Hope Diamond.\n\nWhile posted to Berlin, he lived in an \"enormous mansion\" in the \"swank\" Grunewald neighborhood. One German who visited described it as \"one vast hall after another, and he quiet alone in the midst of it. Very funny; a little like the theatre.\" His staff of servants spoke only Italian. He held \"a large buffet luncheon every Sunday noon, as a means of revenging himself for such hospitality as his position required him to accept.\"\n\nWhile Ambassador in Rome, Kirk lived in the Barberini palace, which he redecorated. He filled a large enclosure the size of a tennis court with \"Renaissance tables and settees covered in ivory silk,\" according to \"Life\" magazine, to create what he termed \"a sort of cozy sitting room.\" When \"Life\" profiled him in 1945, it reported that he had always established fine residences wherever he was posted: \"The Ambassador is fond of houses, and especially big ones. Equipped with ample private funds and the courage of his complexes, Kirk sees no reason why he should not capitalize the chance his profession gives him to indulge this fondness, all the more since such indulgence usually works out to the benefit of the State Department in one way or another.\" His nickname around this time was \"Buffy.\"\n\nIn 1945 he attributed \"his excellent health to the fact that he has never worn himself down by any form of exercise more violent than scratching, which he only does when suffering from insomnia at 6 a.m.\"\n\nHe planned to retire to Arizona and bought a piece of land in the White Mountains at the end of World War II. He joked that he would live there not in a house but in a cave. Another diplomat reported that he retired to the mountains of Colorado and \"amused himself operating a ranch and raising cattle\" for a few years before relocating to Texas.\n\nHis sister Gertrude Kirk Metzeroff died in St. Petersburg, Florida in 1948 at the age of 84. According to her obituary, her brother Alexander was then living in Washington, D.C., and Santa Barbara, California, while her sister Margaret was living in Santa Barbara.\n\nKirk died in Tucson, Arizona, on March 23, 1979. He is buried with his mother in Rome's Protestant Cemetery (Cimitero Acattolico).\n\nIn his 1967 memoirs, George F. Kennan sketched an affectionate portrait of Kirk, as he knew him in Berlin before America entered World War II: \"a confirmed bachelor, profoundly saddened by the recent death of an adored mother who, while she was alive, had preempted much of both his companionship and his emotional life, Kirk drowned the inner emptiness in the performance of his arduous official duties,\" sleeping in an office alcove while working 16 to 18 hours daily. He continued:\n\nKirk claimed he escaped from diplomatic functions by whatever ruse the situation required. At one embassy in Rome he found it necessary to leave by a door he could only reach by going under a grand piano. \"In a case of this sort, Kirk recommends slow motion, which, he says, often prevents witnesses from even noticing a maneuver which, if executed fast, might horrify them.\"\n\nHe insisted his favorite color was gray. He never had fresh flowers, rather he collected artificial ones in his favorite color. His wardrobe and household were maintained by a servant named Mario, who joined the Kirk household in Mexico early in Kirk's career and continued through his stint as ambassador in Rome.\n"}
{"id": "39145611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39145611", "title": "Annales Cavenses", "text": "Annales Cavenses\n\nThe Annales Cavenses are a chronicle compiled at the La Trinità della Cava abbey in Cava de' Tirreni, province of Salerno, southern Italy. \nIt consists of annalistic entries spanning the years 568 to 1318, i.e. essentially the entire duration of the Middle Ages in Italy (but only for the last two centuries or so compiled contemporaneously with the events recorded).\n\nSome of the entries are of scientific interest as historical records of events such as earthquakes or astronomical phenomena. The text was first edited in 1839 by Georg Heinrich Pertz in his \"Monumenta Germaniae Historica\".\n\nNot to be confused is the so-called \"Chronicon Cavense\" (also known as \"Annalista Salernitanus\"), a work which was once considered authentic but in 1847 was established as an 18th-century forgery due to Francesco Maria Pratilli (Georg Heinrich Pertz, Rudolf Köpke, \"Über das Chronicon Cavense und andere von Pratillo herausgegebene Quellenschriften\", in \"Archiv der Gesellschaft für ältere deutsche Geschichtskunde\", IX (1847), 1-239).\n\n"}
{"id": "19441102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19441102", "title": "Arthur C. Clarke bibliography", "text": "Arthur C. Clarke bibliography\n\nThe following is a list of works by Arthur C. Clarke.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2846742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2846742", "title": "Blue Shirts Society", "text": "Blue Shirts Society\n\nThe Blue Shirts Society, also known as the Society of Practice of the Three Principles of the People (, commonly abbreviated as SPTPP), the Spirit Encouragement Society (勵志社, SES) and the China Reconstruction Society (中華復興社, CRS), was a secret fascist clique in the Kuomintang (KMT, or the Chinese Nationalist Party).\n\nAlthough in its early stage the society's most important members came from the Whampoa Military Academy, and constituted elements of the KMT's Whampoa Clique, by the 1930s its influence extended into the military and political spheres, and had influence upon China's economy and society. The rise and fall of the Blue Shirt Society was rapid, but obscure, and was seldom mentioned again by either the KMT or the Communist Party of China after the establishment of the People's Republic of China and the following KMT domination on Taiwan.\n\nThe Blue Shirts origins can be traced to the Whampoa Clique of 1924 - professional military officers - many of whom had sworn personal loyalty to Chiang Kai-shek, as well to the ideals of Sun Yat-sen's Three Principles of the People.\n\nAfter the Northern Expedition of 1927, Chiang and the KMT seized most of China's territories. The government established was in a degree of social crisis: there were tensions as Japan's conquest of Manchuria; Chiang had also formally split the First United Front, the alliance between the KMT and the CCP (Communist Party of China), turning the two parties against each other. The CCP had bases in the cities and to a lesser degree in the countryside, posing a threat to Chiang's government. The KMT itself was not of one mind; divided into several cliques, there were power struggles between Chiang, Hu Hanmin and Wang Jingwei. China was still scourged by corruption, poverty, and infrequent civil war.\n\nBeing the foundation of Chiang's rule, some Whampoa graduates felt it time to take action. Consequently, in July 1931, (滕傑) and Xiao Zanyu (蕭贊育) were sent back to China to investigate the threat from Japan and any forthcoming war.\n\nWhen Teng and Xiao returned to China, they were upset to find the KMT, in their eyes, \"gravitating toward decadence\". Teng designed a blueprint to reform the KMT, suggesting a single great and powerful leader could save China and the KMT. The leader could rule by all means, hopefully as a benevolent dictator. Chiang was a sound candidate, and over the following months Teng traveled around the capital of Nanjing seeking support from Whampoa fellows.\n\nTeng was acquainted with Zeng Kuoqing (曾擴情), among the first graduates of Whampoa, and the man in charge of the Whampoa Alumni Association. Because the KMT banned organized political parties, Teng and Zeng searched for alumni in secret. Zeng used his influence and personal relations among Whampoa graduates to organize periodic meetings to discuss Teng's plan.\n\nAfter several months the group included prominent Whampoa graduates, including He Zhonghan (賀衷寒), widely regarded as one of The Three Most Outstanding Whampoa graduates (the other two being CCP members Jiang Xianyun (蔣先雲) and Chen Geng (陳賡), the patriarch of the Sun Yat-sen Theory Research Group at that time); Hu Zongnan (胡宗南)，a rising young general in Chiang's National Revolutionary Army; Deng Wenyi (鄧文儀 )，another patriarch of the Sun Yat-sen Theory Research Group and a secretary to Chiang, and; Feng Ti (丰悌), the Commissar of the 1st Division of the KMT army.\n\nIn September 1931, in the third meeting of the group, an organization to reform the KMT and fight against Japan was decided. Under the direction of He Zhonghan, this group was named the Society of the Practice of Three Principles of People (三民主義力行社, SPTPP). Teng was elected General Secretary. The party also issued guidance on the establishment, discipline and organization of members, and confirmed its main mission as follows:\n\nFunds were mainly raised by Deng, who ran the KMT's Party Book Shop, a publishing house for party-political propaganda. Furthermore, to avoid arrest under the KMT's political organization ban, members decided not to tell Chiang Kai-shek of their plan, even while regarding him as their spiritual mentor and leader.\n\nBefore long Kang Ze (康澤), who published the \"China Daily\" newspaper with the permission of Chiang, became the mouthpiece of the SPTPP.\n\nIn December 1931, under pressure both inside and outside the KMT, Chiang resigned. While in retirement at his hometown in Zhejiang, Chiang showed growing interest in Benito Mussolini's fascism. Deng subsequently let Chiang know of the existence of the SPTPP. Chiang summoned He, Teng and Kang to a meeting, where he announced his idea for a more formal and disciplined organization like those in Italy and Germany. Thus specific rules and articles to guide the party were drafted.\n\nWith support from Chiang, Teng designed a hierarchical organization style. At the top was Chiang, with the foundations made from the elite of Whampoa graduates. New members could only be accepted with two recommendations and approval from Chiang himself. Members were not allowed to resign unless the group faced dissolution. If there was any violation of discipline, members would receive severe punishment.\n\nIn 1932 Chiang regained the presidency after a power struggle between his opponents. Hoping to speed reform of the SPTPP, in a secret meeting in February Gui Yongqing (桂永清)， a member of the SPTPP, recommended Liu Jianqun (劉健羣) as a suitable candidate. Liu, He Yingqin's (何應欽) secretary, contributed much to the group.\n\nLiu wrote a pamphlet called \"Some Opinions On The Reform of the KMT\". In this, Liu proposed reform of the KMT be enforced via a group of elites established and organized along the lines of Mussolini's MVSN or Blackshirts. Members would wear blue shirts to pledge their allegiance. Accordingly, the leader should encourage by his sublime, superior spirit. Under the direction of the leader, all members would live simple and disciplined lives, and all cadres would be treated equally, with incomes and lives under strict supervision. Violation would be severely punished. In return, the people would entrust property and their families to the country and the supreme leader. Public responsibilities would depend on ability, from military service to absolute obedience of orders including surveillance of one's neighborhoods. Lives would be divided into stages, including a youth wing. Thus, China would be turned into a militarized society, with a three tier organization, highest to lowest: Supreme Leader - Blue Shirt Society - People.\n\nLiu Jianqun ordered membership be kept a secret:\n\n\"With a view to attaining the object of immediately overthrowing the feudal influences, exterminating the Red Bandits, and dealing with foreign insult[s], members of the Blue Shirts Society should conduct in secret their activities in various provinces, xian, and cities, except for the central Guomindang headquarters and other political organs whose work must be executed in an official manner.\"\n\nChiang met with Liu and appreciated his theory, leading to the evolution of the SPTPP into the Blue Shirt Society (BSS). In March 1932, under cover of an existing club called the Spirit Encouragement Society (勵志社)，the SPTPP officially announced its establishment. Although Liu's proposal that members wear blue shirts and name their society after the blue shirts was not accepted, the SPTPP was privately known as the BSS from then on. In its formal opening ceremony, Teng was elected General Secretary, with He, Kang as Standing Secretariat. The BSS consisted of six divisions: Secretariat, Organization, Propaganda, Military, Special Agency and Logistics. The secret society reached its peak, with the BSS infiltrating the country's political system, military and even the everyday lives of people.\n\nDuring the early to mid-1930s Chiang was busy carrying out his suppression of the CCP's Red Army in the countryside. With his permission, the BSS took over the defense of Nanking. Most of the prominent Whampoa graduates now got promotions as commanders and became BSS members. Besides increasing its influence in the army, the BSS infiltrated the police and security services in major cities, and recruited members in the KMT youth league. The BSS now had influence in China's military, labor unions, publishing houses and schools. A new structure of power had emerged, with the BSS at the core of the Whampoa Clique, coexisting and competing against the two better known cliques: the CC Clique, led by Chen Lifu (陳立夫) and Chen Guofu (陳果夫)，whose remit was dealing with party issues, and; the Politics Research Group (政學系) led by Yang Yongtai (楊永泰) and Zhang Qun (張群), whose remit was the day-to-day running of the KMT government.\n\nLiu's pamphlet was accepted as the guideline of the BSS, and part of it was revised into the Regulation of Life Discipline. In accordance with this, BSS members would be paid low wages, with part being donated to the BSS. Gambling and opium were banned. Anti-corruption laws and laws prohibiting BSS members from having mistresses were to be strictly abided by. The practice of BSS members became quite distinct from the majority of KMT bureaucrats.\n\nIn June 1932, an anti-graft campaign was launched under the direction of BSS member, Deng Wenyi. A special force, mostly comprising BSS members, cracked down on corrupt police officers in Wuhan. After several arrests and executions, the police force was considered improved. Deng then waged war against organized crimes, prostitution, opium and gambling. After 3 months, Deng had won Chiang's praise. Chiang wanted this effort to be promoted around the country, and so launched a campaign to purify the capital. The results were less successful and derided as a failure.\n\nMeanwhile, the BSS was playing an active role in suppressing the CCP. Zeng Kuoqing, using his status in the Whampoa Alumni Association, wrote a letter to Xu Jishen (許繼慎), commander of Zhang Guotao's 4th Red Army and a Whampoa graduate, asking Xu to defect to the KMT. Xu did not reply, but when his superiors discovered the letter, suspicions were raised and the CCP decided to carry out a purge. Thousands of commanders and soldiers were tortured and executed, weakening the CCP's resistance. In light of this, in October 1932, Hu Zongnan led his army (mainly commanded by BSS officers) in a cruel and decisive battle against Xu Xiangqian in Hekou Anhui. In contrast to other KMT armies, the army had high-morale, was composed of hand-picked men, and equipped with the best weaponry. With strong support from other armies also led by BSS members such as Yu Jishi (俞濟時) and Huang Jie (黃杰), Xu's CCP army was routed. After suffering some 10,000 casualties, Zhang and Xu retreated. Hu and his troop chased, and when Zhang and his army reached Sichuan to set up another base, Hu remained in Gansu nearby. Hu, with his chosen men and strong army, became known as the King of Northwestern China.\n\nCoinciding With the BSS's ever-increasing power and influence, disagreements within the BSS leadership mounted. Chiang, who regarded the BSS as a tool, would not allow them more power and influence. Teng could not accept this and conflicts between him and Chiang were frequent. In 1933, Chiang chose He Zhonghan to succeed Teng as General Secretary of the BSS.\n\nAs a more ambitious and skilled politician than Teng, He Zhonghan won a power struggle against his BSS rival Liu Jianqun. Subsequently, He decided to set up a propaganda network run by Kang Ze. This special agency under the direction of Dai Li, and his deputy Zheng Jiemin (鄭介民), evolved into a network infiltrating every corner of China. The BSS's influence grew into Northern China, which was under direct threat of invasion by Japan. In 1933 the Japanese army invaded Rehe, and KMT armies fought against them along the Great Wall. The BSS now changed from an elite secret society into an anti-Japanese mass movement. Liu was sent to the BSS's Northern China Division, which was called the China Reconstruction Society (中華復興社，CRS). Most members were university lecturers and student groups, and in the summer of that year the CRS had divisions in 24 provinces of China with more than 40,000 members. With the CRS controlling the political training system of the KMT, new recruits were always available. With thousands of members, political instructors and front organizations, the BSS had a kingdom under the direction of He.\nBesides setting up the CRS, the BSS also played a part in the Second Stage Revolution. Using influence in Northern and Southwestern China to persuade local warlords to pledge allegiance to Chiang, a reform of the KMT armies was carried out. An air force and armored corps was set up, alongside wars against corruption, opium and poverty. Reconstruction of rural areas was undertaken, with roads built and bank loans provided to peasants. The most significant part of this movement was Kang Ze's New Jiangxi Style and Special Detachment (別動隊，NJSSD).\n\nIn 1933 during the 5th Suppression Campaign against the CCP, Chiang decided to set up a paramilitary force. Kang was appointed to lead the NJSSD, the only direct military group in the BSS. Soon the NJSSD had integrated of military, political, police, military police and secret police powers. At its peak it had 24,000 members and three divisions of regular troops. The NJSSD had peasants living near Soviet Jiangxi and Northern Anhui categorized and confined, where they had limited access to the outside world. A family hoping to prove itself non-CCP needed to have the guarantee of four other families, and promise not to collaborate with or provide support to the CCP. Violations would have the whole family executed, along with the families of the four guarantors. The NJSSD set up hundreds of concentration camps around Shangrao, Jiangxi, where they tortured and executed residents and CCP captives. Under this system, fewer and fewer peasants supported the CCP. Merchants who smuggled materiel to the CCP were also broken down, with peasants organized to build blockades against the Soviet Territory. With the shortage of supplies, accompanied by heavy attacks from the KMT, the CCP had to launch its now-famous Long March in order to retreat.\n\nThe NJSSD started the New Jiangxi Style plan in territories previously occupied by the Communists, providing compulsory education and free medical treatment to peasants. With a brutal but effective anti-corruption campaign, they provided loans, seeds and pesticides also. Nevertheless, the NJSSD engaged in fervent brutality, executions of perceived CCP sympathisers, and innocents. In one case, in Mount Dabie, previously the base of the 4th Red Army in Northern Anhui, more than half a million were massacred. At the same time, in accordance with NJSSD and New Jiangxi Style, Kang reached the peak of his career, and he raised enough finances to challenge He as leader of the BSS.\n\nXiao Zuolin (肖作霖), a BSS member early on, drafted a plan called the Whole New Culture Movement and proposed the establishment of an organization called the Chinese Culture Academy to increase the BSS's influence in culture. Xiao got Deng Wenyi's support and carried out his plan by taking over several newspapers and journals, and by enrolling its members in universities. Its scheme of forging a movement for a new culture was adopted by Chiang, and on 19 February 1934, he announced the New Life Movement at a meeting in Nanchang. The plan involved reconstructing the moral system of the Chinese and welcoming a renaissance and reconstruction of Chinese national pride.\n\nIn March, Chiang issued guidance, consisting of 95 rules of the New Life Movement, being a mixture of Chinese traditions and western standards. It was a vast propaganda movement, with war mobilization and military maneuvers on a scale that China had never experienced before. But because the plan was so ambitious and rigid, and because its policies created too much inconvenience in the everyday lives of the people, it fell into disfavor. Nearly three years later in 1936, Chiang had to accept that his favorite movement had failed. Deng, Kang and Jiang Xiaoxian (蔣孝先), Chiang's nephew and bodyguard, also BSS members were appointed General Secretariats of the New Life Movement, with supervision of public lifestyles enforced by BSS cadres. By controlling the mouthpieces of the KMT, the BSS openly expressed advocacy of fascism in its publications.\n\nUnlike Teng, He was a professional politician, and never concealed his ambition for power. After fostering a Hunan Clique in the BSS, Chiang became concerned the BSS might threaten his governance. In 1934 he accused the BSS of corruption and malfunction, dismissing He as General Secretary. Liu Jianqun was appointed as successor. With NJSSD and the Southwestern Clique behind him, and the Zhejiang Clique led by Hu Zongnan and Dai Li opposing him, Liu Jianqun's BSS faced the same fragmented fate as the KMT it had helped get rid of.\n\nWith the New Culture Movement failed but still officially ongoing, the BSS spread its influence into the cultural centers of Shanghai and other major cities that used to be the CC Clique's power base.\n\nIn June 1934, the Nanchang Airport, built by donations from international Chinese, and designed to train the KMT air force, was burned down. The Aviation Commissioner, Xu Peigen (徐培根), who was also a BSS member, was the primary suspect. Deng was sent to investigate this case. He reached the conclusion that the fire was accidentally caused by a cigarette dropped by a soldier, but Chen Lifu and Yang Yongtai argued Xu masterminded the fire to eliminate evidence of corruption, and Deng had colluded to cover it up. Xu was kept in custody, Deng was sacked, and his titles were removed. The Chinese Culture Academy was banned. Dai Li was sent to take over Deng's investigation agency and quietly integrated it into his own special agency, which later evolved into the Military Statistical Bureau, the notorious secret police of the KMT. Dai no longer played any major part in the BSS now he had set up his own kingdom.\n\nTaking advantage of this blow to the BSS's prestige, the Politics Research Clique consummated the Administrative Office System, adding new levels of administration between provinces and counties (the two tier system of provinces and counties had been used in China for more than a thousand years). With the appearance of new offices, the Politics Research Clique was able to control the county level. Many bureaucrats who used to be loyal to the CC Clique and the BSS defected to the suddenly more powerful Politics Research Clique. The Politics Research Clique took over the security forces, the police and the militia step by step. Liu, whose failures in the BSS were an embarrassment, was replaced by Feng Ti under the excuse that he had health problems. He was sent to Manchuria to work with Zeng Kuoqing.\n\nIn 1935, two editors of a pro-Japanese newspapers were assassinated in Manchuria. The Japanese thought these actions were taken by the BSS and argued it was a violation of the Tanggu Accord signed to keep the status quo between the Japanese and China. Yoshijirō Umezu (梅津美治郎), commander of the Japanese China Garrison Army and Kenji Doihara's (土肥原賢二) Japanese intelligence agency investigated and presented a memo to He Yingqing. Agreeing with the Japanese recommendations in this memo, all Chinese forces heavily influenced by the BSS (including military police, regular forces such as the 2nd Division and the 25th Division) should be evacuated from Beijing and out of Hebei province.\n\nTaking over military training for the KMT, Feng Ti enrolled new members into the BSS. Hu Zongnan, Dai Li and other former BSS members also strengthened their grip on power by enrolling members into their own private armies. At the top were hundreds of Whampoa graduates, aided by some 30,000 mid- and low-level officers, university teachers and public servants. Below them were more than 200,000 members of the CRS. At the bottom were hundreds of thousands of boy scouts. With the organization undergoing such rapid expansion, corruption and inefficiency plagued the BSS across the country. Furthermore, in 1935, there was a serious security leak in its headquarters after the BSS tried to assassinate Wang Jingwei, Chiang's presidential rival. Under heavy pressure, Feng Ti was sacked. Liu Jianquan took over, to be replaced in turn by Zheng Jiemin.\n\nIn 1936 Deng Wenyi became General Secretary of the BSS, just in time for December's Xi'an Incident. Chiang was kidnapped and held by General Zhang Xueliang, who favored fighting the Japanese more than the CCP. There were disagreements between KMT leaders on whether to solve the kidnapping by peace talks or military action. In BSS meeting, He Zhonghan and Deng were determined to use force and called for the mobilization of BSS members around the country. 176 young generals issued a statement to denounce Zhang Xueliang and declare war on his army. Under He's direction, more than 2000 officers and BSS members held a meeting pledging their allegiance to Chiang and agreeing to mobilize against the Young Marshall. Gui Yongqing led an army of more than 12,000 men in armored vehicles across the Yangtze River towards where Chiang was being held, while a few bombers were launched by overzealous military and BSS officers. Chen and other KMT leaders refused to support this, however, and even He Yingqing, who was in charge of the KMT military, did not agree with the BSS's movement. No official support was given by the KMT.\n\nChiang's wife Soong Mei-ling came to Xian for peace talks. Due to the efforts of the CCP delegation, led by Zhou Enlai, who wanted to set up an alliance with the KMT against the Japanese, Chiang was released several weeks later. After his release, Chiang took revenge on the BSS's reckless action and lack of control. Deng was sacked, with all titles removed again, and he was replaced by Kang Ze. He Zhonghan was out of favor with Chiang and forced to travel around Europe in exile. In March 1937, Chiang issued his order that all BSS activities be temporarily suspended.\n\nWith the Second Sino-Japanese War breaking out on 7 July 1937, Japanese troops seized vast areas of China. Before Nanjing fell, Kang led the retreat of the BSS from its headquarters. In 1938 the BSS held its first and last national congress in Wuhan. Here, members of the BSS and SPTPP were permitted to have their memberships automatically transferred to the KMT, members of the CRS could be transferred to the Youth League of Three Principles of the People (三民主義青年團, YLTPP). Most of the 500,000 members of the BSS and CRS refused to transfer to the KMT, instead choosing the YLTPP, which became the basis of a new force within the KMT. Hu Zongnan kept the position of Director of the YLTPP, while Kang acted as his agent. The biggest winner was Dai Li: his new spy agency, the Military Statistical Bureau was formed, and he transferred all the intelligence agents of the BSS, CRS and NJSSD into it, giving him one of the largest intelligence services in the world. He kept control over this secret empire until his death in an airplane crash in 1946.\n\nThe BSS had been officially dismissed, but Kang wished to keep it alive under the cover of the YLTPP. In the following 7 years he increased YLTPP membership from 400,000 to more than 1.5 million, and used NJSSD techniques to re-organize the YLTPP. The result was a group more efficient and disciplined than the KMT, which aroused Chiang's suspicion again. After returning from the Soviet Union, Chiang Kai-shek's son Chiang Ching-kuo sought to take over the YLTPP. Kang was reluctant and tried to resist these efforts, sealing his fate. In 1945 Kang was sent to Europe and Chiang Ching-kuo was given the YLTPP's seat. During the Chinese Civil War, members of the YLTPP suffered the same fate as the KMT. Only prominent YLTPP figures such as Kang survived CCP purges, as examples of clemency toward war criminals.\n\nThe following were some of the most prominent and earliest members of BSS.\n\nTeng was later appointed as mayor of Nanjing. He went to Taiwan in 1945 with KMT troops and later retired from the position of chairman of Central Trust Bureau of the KMT. After years of retirement, he was appointed director of Labor Bureau. In 1949, when the KMT retreated to Taiwan, he was Minister of Communication and Policy Counsellor.\n\nLiu's wife was an agent working for Kenji Doihara, bringing many confidential documents with her on defecting to the Japanese. After this, Liu himself was forced to become a fugitive to escape Dai Li's secret police. After becoming a monk and spending years in Guizhou, Chiang's men found him by chance. Chiang showed leniency by offering Liu a position as vice-speaker of the KMT Congress. When he went to Taiwan, Liu lived in poverty, and before his death in 1960s his last contribution was to provide valuable details for an article on the BSS written by an American professor.\n\nHaving risen and fallen several times, Deng showed little interest in politics after the Sino-Japanese War. He arrived in Taiwan in 1949 and retired as Director of the Political Work Bureau.\n\nFeng Ti was appointed as commander of guard for Changsha, but was executed in 1938 after KMT forces engaged in a scorched earth policy to resist the invasion of Japanese army. The resultant fires killed thousands of civilians\n\nKang returned from Europe during the Chinese Civil War and was sent to the battlefront. Captured and made a POW, KMT propaganda depicted him as a martyr. In reality, Kang lived well in custody and defected to the CCP. In 1963 he was released in a CCP amnesty and died 4 years later.\n\nHu's troops were annihilated by CCP armies during the Civil War. When he left for Taiwan in 1949, he was impeached by 46 members of the KMT's Control Yuan for incompetence in military command. Although Hu was released with no charge, he was appointed a defense commander for a little island and never returned to central politics. After retiring, he died in 1962.\n\nZeng was captured and made a POW in the Civil War. Later released by the CCP, he died in 1983.\n\nGui was made commander of the KMT navy during the Civil War, then went to Taiwan. He died during his term as Chief of Staff of the KMT Army in 1954.\n\nDai Li became head of secret police and espionage of the KMT, and died in an air crash in 1946. His assistant, Zheng, succeeded Dai in running the KMT secret police. He died in 1959 in Taiwan.\n\n"}
{"id": "36396413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36396413", "title": "Britain's Secret Treasures", "text": "Britain's Secret Treasures\n\nBritain's Secret Treasures is a British documentary shown on ITV hosted by Michael Buerk and Bettany Hughes. The programme features fifty archaeological discoveries that have been made in England, Wales and Scotland by members of the public. With the exception of a single find made in Scotland, all the objects featured were recorded by the Portable Antiquities Scheme (PAS). Since the PAS was set up in 1997, some 800,000 objects have been registered with the scheme, many of them discovered by amateur metal detectorists.\n\nThe fifty finds have been selected by Hughes and a panel of experts from the British Museum (Roger Bland, Michael Lewis, Sally Worrell and Ian Richardson) and the Council for British Archaeology (Mike Heyworth) from among the nearly one million finds reported to the PAS on the basis of their historical and cultural significance, as well as on their aesthetic merit. The six episodes of \"Britain's Secret Treasures\" present the fifty objects in reverse order according to their importance as judged by the panel, in a countdown format, with the ten most important objects revealed during the sixth and final episode.\n\nTaking the top slot in the countdown, as the most important object according to the panel, is a Lower Paleolithic flint handaxe made more than half a million years ago that was found on a beach in Happisburgh, Norfolk in 2000 by a man taking his dog for a walk.\n\nAt the beginning of the series viewers were invited to submit photographs of objects that they had found in England or Wales, so that experts from the British Museum could select the most interesting object, to be announced during the final episode.\n\nThe viewer-submitted object chosen as the most interesting by the panel was a small medieval bronze ornament in the form of an open book that was found in a field by the Pilgrims' Way at Bentley, Hampshire in 1997 (PAS record: HAMP527). The open pages of the book are engraved with the Latin inscription \"Pax tibi, Marce, Evangelista meus\" meaning \"Peace to you, Mark, my evangelist\". The traditional symbol of the Republic of Venice and the city of Venice is a winged lion (symbol of Mark the Evangelist), which is often depicted with one of its paws on an open book showing this same inscription, which suggests that the bronze book may have been a pilgrim's souvenir from Venice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "79318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79318", "title": "Clotho", "text": "Clotho\n\nClotho (; ) is one of the Three Fates or Moirai who spin (Clotho), draw out (Lachesis) and cut (Atropos) the thread of Life in ancient Greek mythology. Her Roman equivalent is Nona. Clotho was responsible for spinning the thread of human life. She also made major decisions, such as when a person was born, thus in effect controlling people's lives. This power enabled her not only to choose who was born, but also to decide when gods or mortals were to be saved or put to death. For example, Clotho brought Pelops back to life when his father boiled and killed him.\n\nAs one of the three fates her impact on Greek mythology was significant. Clotho, along with her sisters and Hermes, was given credit for creating the alphabet for their people. Even though Clotho and her sisters were worshiped as goddesses, their representation of fate is more central to their role in mythology. Thread represented human life and her decisions represented the fate of all people in society.\n\nAccording to Hesiod's Theogony, Clotho and her sisters (Atropos and Lachesis) were the daughters of Erebus (Darkness) and Nyx (Night), though later in the same work (ll. 901-906) they are said to have been born of Zeus and Themis. Clotho is also mentioned in the tenth book of the Republic of Plato as the daughter of Necessity. In Roman mythology it was believed that she was daughter of Uranus and Gaia.\n\nAs one of the Three Fates, Clotho assisted Hermes in creating the alphabet, forced the goddess Aphrodite into making love with other gods, weakened the monster Typhon with poison fruit, persuaded Zeus to kill Asclepius with a bolt of lightning, and aided the gods in their war with the Giants by killing Agrius and Thoas with bronze clubs. Clotho also used her life-giving powers in the myth of Tantalus, the man who had slain and prepared his son Pelops for a dinner party with the gods. When the gods had found out what Tantalus had done, they put the remaining pieces of Pelops in a cauldron. Clotho brought him back to life, with the exception of his eaten shoulder, which was replaced by a chunk of ivory. Tantalus was then thrust into Hades for what he had done to his own kin. Clotho was worshiped in many places in Greece as one of the Three Fates and is sometimes associated with the Keres and Erinyes, which are other deity groups in Greek mythology. Ariadne, the Greek goddess of fertility, is similar to Clotho in that she carries a ball of thread, much like Clotho's spindle.\n\nClotho, along with her sisters, was tricked into becoming intoxicated by Alcestis. Alcestis, who had two children with Admetus, became extremely saddened when Admetus became very sick and eventually died. Alcestis used Clotho's drunkenness to try to get her husband back. The Three Fates explained that if they were to find a replacement for Admetus then he could be released from the Underworld. A substitute was not found so Alcestis offered herself up to be the replacement in order to bring her husband back to life. As the agreement had been met, Alcestis quickly began to grow sick and sank into her grave as Admetus came back to life. At the last instant, Heracles arrived at the home of Admetus. When Death came to take Alcestis away, Heracles wrestled him and forced him to return Alcestis, allowing Admetus and Alcestis to be reunited.\n\nAlthough there does not seem to be an epic tale in Greek mythology in which the Fates are the main focus, they have played critical roles in the lives of gods and mortals. A tale in which the Fates played an integral part was that of Meleagros and the Brand, which W. H. D. Rouse describes in \"Gods, Heroes and Men of Ancient Greece\". Meleagros led a hunting party to slay the Calydonian Boar, which was set loose upon Calydon by Artemis. She was displeased at the Calydonian king for neglecting to make a proper sacrifice to her. After slaying the boar, Meleagros presented the skin to a female member of the party, Atalanta, with whom he was smitten. His uncles were also part of the adventurous group, and they were upset by Meleagros' gift to Atalanta. They believed a female should not have the skin of the boar. As a result of this disagreement, Meleagros slew his uncles, who were his mother's brothers. She was so enraged that she decided to take vengeance upon him. She remembered a visit that the Fates had made a week after Meleagros was born. A Fate told Althaia that her son's life would expire when the burning log in the fireplace ceased to flame. She promptly extinguished the flames, preserved it and hid it safely. In her rage over the loss of her brothers, she lit the log to punish Meleagros. As the log was consumed in flame, Meleagros burned to death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2466507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2466507", "title": "Comparative sociology", "text": "Comparative sociology\n\nComparative sociology involves comparison of the social processes between nation states, or across different types of society (for example capitalist and socialist). There are two main approaches to comparative sociology: some seek similarity across different countries and cultures whereas others seek variance. For example, structural Marxists have attempted to use comparative methods to discover the general processes that underlie apparently different social orderings in different societies. The danger of this approach is that the different social contexts are overlooked in the search for supposed universal structures.\n\nOne sociologist who employed comparative methods to understand variance was Max Weber, whose studies attempted to show how differences between cultures explained the different social orderings that had emerged (see for example \"The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism\" and Sociology of religion).\n\nThere is some debate within sociology regarding whether the label of 'comparative' is suitable. Emile Durkheim argued in \"The Rules of Sociological Method\" (1895) that all sociological research was in fact comparative since social phenomenon are always held to be typical, representative or unique, all of which imply some sort of comparison. In this sense, all sociological analysis is comparative and it has been suggested that what is normally referred to as comparative research, may be more appropriately called cross-national research.\n\n"}
{"id": "28193958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28193958", "title": "Comparison of digital SLRs", "text": "Comparison of digital SLRs\n\nFollowing list compares main features of digital single-lens reflex cameras (DSLRs). Order of this list should be firstly by manufacturer alphabetically, secondly from high end to low end models.\n\nKey:\n"}
{"id": "34568491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34568491", "title": "Crystal model", "text": "Crystal model\n\nA crystal model is used in teaching crystallography to get acquainted with the morphology of crystals. Models are ideal to learn recognizing symmetry elements in crystals.\n\nThe first real collections of crystal models were produced by Romé de l'Isle. He actually offered sets of small (ca 3 cm) models made of \"terra cotta\" in order to stimulate the sales of the expensive 4 volume set of his book \"Cristallographie\" (1783). The models were manufactured by his co-workers Arnould Carangeot, Lhermina and Swebach-Desfontaines, who produced numerous large sets (up to 448 models in each set). In order to exactly transfer interplanar angles from natural crystals to the terra cotta models, Carangeot invented and designed a prototype of a contact goniometer. This instrument, that proved to be an invaluable tool in geometric crystallography, enabled the measurement of interplanar angles with a precision of about half a degree.\nTeylers Museum in Haarlem has a complete set of these terracotta models that were bought in Paris (in 1785) by Martin van Marum, the first director of the museum. After over 200 years, this collection is still complete and in perfect condition at Teylers Museum.\n\nAlmost two decades later, René Just Haüy introduced wooden crystal models to illustrate the two-dimensional drawings in the atlas volume of his \"Traité de Minéralogie\" (1801). For the production of crystal models, wood appeared to be much more convenient than clay. Especially pear wood permitted getting smooth faces, sharp edges and accurate dihedral angles required for the production of these three-dimensional objects. In general, the angular accuracy was very high and some models, especially those illustrating crystal twins and Haüy's figures of decrement, still appear as masterpieces of fine woodwork and carving. Skilful craftsmen such as Pleuvin, Beloeuf and Lambotin (to name only a few) became specialists in this field and the models they offered were highly esteemed.\n\nBetween 1802–1804, Martin van Marum bought 597 of these pear wood models, 565 of these are still present in the collection of Teylers Museum. Each model is labeled, mentioning a number and the name of the crystal form. This set is the most complete collection of Haüy crystal models that still survives. That Van Marum was able to acquire such a unique collection was due to his networking. Van Marum allowed Haüy as a member of the Hollandsche Maatschappij, a nomination to which Haüy attached great value. Haüy mentioned this membership in all of his publications.\n\nAfter their introduction by Romé de l'Isle and Haüy, crystal models were increasingly demanded both by scholars for teaching purposes as well as by mineral collectors. The quality of the models improved due to the technical progress in their production. Several mineralogists and crystallographers started designing their own series of models. Although pear wood kept a prominent place, models were also manufactured using materials like plaster, cast iron, lead, brass, glass, porcelain, cardboard, etc.\n\nIn 1833, Adam August Krantz (who studied pharmacy and later \"Geognosie\" at the \"Bergakademie Freiberg\") founded the \"Krantz\" company in Bonn. Four years later, Krantz moved to Berlin and sold minerals, fossils, rocks and basically acquired a monopoly in the production of crystal models made of pear wood or walnut. Ever since its foundation, the firm was always in contact with renowned scientists and important collectors. Hence in 1880, Krantz proposed a series of 743 pear wood models compiled for teaching purposes by the crystallographer Paul Groth. Seven years later, a supplementary collection of 213 models was available.\n\nAt the onset of the 20th century, Friedrich Krantz (a nephew of August Krantz, with a degree in mineralogy) supported by his teacher the crystallographer Carl Hintze, offered a collection of 928 models including most of the Groth models. Later, and along with many other productions, a Dana collection of 282 models was manufactured. Krantz offered a choice of collections of wooden models in different sizes (5, 10, 15–25 cm). In addition, he sold a variety of glass models having the crystallographic axes illustrated by colored silk threads or with the holohedral form made of cardboard inside. Also available were models in massive cut and polished glass (colored and uncolored), cardboard models, wire crystal models, crystal lattice models, models with rotating parts, etc.\nOver the years, Krantz published numerous detailed catalogues of the collections he offered; they constitute a precious documentation.\n\n"}
{"id": "40800063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40800063", "title": "Danielz v De Wet", "text": "Danielz v De Wet\n\nIn Danielz v De Wet, an important case in the South African law of succession, Danielz was the executor of De Wet’s estate. Danielz sought an order declaring the deceased’s widow (the sole nominated beneficiary) unworthy of inheriting. The reason for this was that the widow had hired an accomplice to assault the deceased and as a result of the assault, the deceased died.\n\nThe widow claimed that she had only hired an accomplice to assault the deceased and not to kill him, but both were found guilty of murder.\n\nThe court considered the question of whether the bloedige hand principle could be extended to cover insurance benefits owing to a nominated beneficiary.\n\nThe court held that public policy dictates that the principle should not be limited and accordingly extended its application to the statute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8274", "title": "Declaration of Arbroath", "text": "Declaration of Arbroath\n\nThe Declaration of Arbroath is a declaration of Scottish independence, made in 1320. It is in the form of a letter in Latin submitted to Pope John XXII, dated 6 April 1320, intended to confirm Scotland's status as an independent, sovereign state and defending Scotland's right to use military action when unjustly attacked.\n\nGenerally believed to have been written in the Arbroath Abbey by Bernard of Kilwinning, then Chancellor of Scotland and Abbot of Arbroath, and sealed by fifty-one magnates and nobles, the letter is the sole survivor of three created at the time. The others were a letter from the King of Scots, Robert I, and a letter from four Scottish bishops which all presumably made similar points.\n\nThe Declaration was part of a broader diplomatic campaign which sought to assert Scotland's position as an independent kingdom, rather than being a feudal land controlled by England's Norman kings, as well as lift the excommunication of Robert the Bruce. The Pope had recognised Edward I of England's claim to overlordship of Scotland in 1305 and Bruce was excommunicated by the Pope for murdering John Comyn before the altar in Greyfriars Church in Dumfries in 1306.\n\nThe Declaration made a number of points: that Scotland had always been independent, indeed for longer than England; that Edward I of England had unjustly attacked Scotland and perpetrated atrocities; that Robert the Bruce had delivered the Scottish nation from this peril; and, most controversially, that the independence of Scotland was the prerogative of the Scottish people, rather than the King of Scots. In fact it stated that the nobility would choose someone else to be king if Bruce proved to be unfit in maintaining Scotland's independence.\n\nSome have interpreted this last point as an early expression of 'popular sovereignty' – that government is contractual and that kings can be chosen by the community rather than by God alone. Modern Scottish nationalists point to the “Declaration\" as evidence of the long-term persistence of the Scots as a distinct national community, giving a very early date for the emergence of nationalism. However \"the overwhelming majority of academics challenge this vision. Scholars point out that definitions change with time. The meaning ascribed to words similar to nation during the ancient and medieval periods was often quite different than it is today.\"\n\nIt has also been argued that the Declaration was not a statement of popular sovereignty (and that its signatories would have had no such concept) but a statement of royal propaganda supporting Bruce's faction. A justification had to be given for the rejection of King John Balliol in whose name William Wallace and Andrew de Moray had rebelled in 1297. The reason given in the Declaration is that Bruce was able to defend Scotland from English aggression whereas, by implication, King John could not.\n\nWhatever the true motive, the idea of a contract between King and people was advanced to the Pope as a justification for Bruce's coronation whilst John de Balliol still lived in Papal custody.\n\nThere are 39 names—eight earls and thirty one barons—at the start of the document, all of whom may have had their seals appended, probably over the space of some weeks and months, with nobles sending in their seals to be used. On the extant copy of the Declaration there are only 19 seals, and of those 19 people only 12 are named within the document. It is thought likely that at least 11 more seals than the original 39 might have been appended. The Declaration was then taken to the papal court at Avignon by Bishop Kininmund, Sir Adam Gordon and Sir Odard de Maubuisson.\nThe Pope heeded the arguments contained in the Declaration, influenced by the offer of support from the Scots for his long-desired crusade if they no longer had to fear English invasion. He exhorted Edward II in a letter to make peace with the Scots, but the following year was again persuaded by the English to take their side and issued six bulls to that effect.\n\nOn 1 March 1328 the new English king, Edward III signed a peace treaty between Scotland and England, the Treaty of Edinburgh-Northampton. In this treaty, which was in effect for five years until 1333, Edward renounced all English claims to Scotland. Eight months later, in October 1328, the interdict on Scotland, and the excommunication of its king, were removed by the Pope.\n\nThe original copy of the Declaration that was sent to Avignon is lost. A copy of the Declaration survives among Scotland's state papers, held by the National Archives of Scotland in Edinburgh. The most widely known English language translation was made by Sir James Fergusson, formerly Keeper of the Records of Scotland, from text that he reconstructed using this extant copy and early copies of the original draft. \n\nG.W.S. Barrow has shown that one passage in particular, often quoted from the Fergusson translation, was carefully written using different parts of \"The Conspiracy of Catiline\" by the Roman author, Sallust (86–35 BC) as the direct source:\n\nListed below are the signatories of the Declaration of Arbroath in 1320. Although it includes several consistent Bruce loyalists, it includes others who had opposed Bruce, or whom Bruce tried for plotting against him a few months later, and others of whom little is known.\n\nThe declaration itself is written in Latin. It uses the Latin versions of the signatories' titles, and in some cases the spelling of names has changed over the years. This list generally uses the titles of the signatories' Wikipedia biographies.\n\n\nIn addition, the names of the following do not appear in the document's text, but their names are written on seal tags and their seals are present:\n\n\nUS Senate Resolution 155 of 10 November 1997 states that the Declaration of Arbroath, the Scottish Declaration of Independence [sic], was signed on 6 April 1320 and the American Declaration of Independence was modeled on that inspirational document. However, although this influence is accepted by some historians, it is disputed by others. Even advocates of the link concede that it is speculative and not based on any verifiable sources.\n\nIn 2016 the Declaration of Arbroath was placed on UNESCO's Memory of the World register.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9375375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9375375", "title": "Donemus", "text": "Donemus\n\nDonemus (compounded from Documentatiecentrum nederlandse muziek) is the Dutch institute dealing with the documentation of contemporary music composed in the Netherlands. \n\nOriginally a publisher of scores, between 1960-2000 Donemus also published a series of recordings titled \"Composers' Voice\" (CV); initially on LP, and later on CD. The originally large archive of hand-written scores was sent back to the composers in the early 21st century; today the archive is maintained mainly digitally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48142148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48142148", "title": "Eric Flint bibliography", "text": "Eric Flint bibliography\n\nThis is complete list of works by American science fiction and historical fiction author Eric Flint.\n\nWritten in collaboration with David Drake, the series features historical characters, including Roman general Belisarius, whom the authors present as possibly the best general to ever walk the earth.\n\nNovels in the series include:\n\nThe Assiti Shards refers to a literary mechanism which exchanges one volume of space-time with another. This manifests as both a time-swap and place-swap for the two places affected. The literary technique can be read about in detail in Assiti Shards effect, but when it first reached print in \"1632\", the technique spawned a huge surge of fan interest which is continuing to grow now well over twelve years later. Flint had at least two other milieus planned utilizing the mechanism in 2000, but because of demand for works in the \"1632 universe\", he temporarily shelved them through the period 2001–05. They were known to be in production for some intervals in some part and manner in 2005–06, but the death of Jim Baen or other projects has apparently delayed them.\n\nA fourth Assiti Shard effects tale, \"Time Spike\" was published in 2008.\nIn the late winter of 2005–06, Baen started listing all the 1632-verse books under the umbrella series title Assiti Shards series and continues to do so, after previously listing them under Ring of Fire, for the only series thus far published, so \"1632\" (numbering 10 works in print, thirty Gazettes (XXX came out in October 2010) and climbing rapidly bi-monthly) is currently listed on Baen's under the pseudo misnomer \"Assiti Shards series\", of which there are (will be) four milieus planned, not just the original. Yet Amazon and Barnes and Noble lists \"Ring of Fire\" for some books in the series, and \"Assiti Shards series\" for others. As of early October 2007, the series name of the \"1632 books\" is still confused; Barnes and Noble has seemingly grouped them under \"Ring of Fire series\", Amazon and other web sellers are mixed, and the book covers of the last six hardcover releases avoid the question entirely on the dust jacket and artwork. At the moment, we use the term \"1632 series\", and other books in the series can be reached via that main article or by the navigation strip at the page bottom.\n\nOnce also known on the internet as the 163\"x\" series, Baen for a time called the \"Ring of Fire series\", and it is as frequently called the \"1632 Universe\" or 1632verse; however it is named, it is a best-selling success. The alternate history series starts when the inhabitants of a small town in the United States find themselves transported back to Central Germany, in the late spring (May) of 1631 with no way back. The first book title results because while the tale builds in 1631, the climax occurs when events in the Thirty Years' War nearly overrun the town in 1632.\n\nOther \"Assiti Shards\" universes which share only the time travel mechanism, but not the setting of the 1632 universe include two novels:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19204833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19204833", "title": "Gavin Report", "text": "Gavin Report\n\nThe Gavin Report was a San Francisco-based radio industry trade publication. The publication was founded by radio performer Bill Gavin in 1958. Its Top 40 listings were used for many years by programmers to decide content of programs. The publication was also responsible for running the Gavin Seminar, a convention for radio industry members.\n\nIn February 2002, United Business Media, who had owned the Gavin Report since 1992, decided to close the publication. Gavin executives cited a lack of cooperation on the part of media conglomerates (specifically naming Clear Channel Communications and Infinity Broadcasting), as well as poor convention attendance as reasons for the closure.\n"}
{"id": "52857861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52857861", "title": "Hardesty's Historical and Geographical Encyclopedia", "text": "Hardesty's Historical and Geographical Encyclopedia\n\nHardesty's Historical and Geographical Encyclopedia was a voluminous late 19th century American encyclopedia produced by H.H. Hardesty & Company, publishers, of Chicago and Toledo. A massive work with enormous amount of textual and statistical data, it went through various editions and variations throughout the 1880s, with some special editions focusing on areas of special regional significance. (\"E.g.\", a stand-alone military history under the title \"The Military History of Ohio\" in special county editions which did not include the more general information in the main \"Encyclopedia\", but included the state’s general military history in addition to a specific county’s military history. Another example was the \"Special Virginia Edition\" giving a history of the Virginias, written by R.A. Brock, secretary of the Virginia Historical Society.) \n\nThe main edition of the \"Encyclopedia\" contained large scale copper plate maps of each state and territory of the United States; and the provinces of Canada; a reference map of the world; a topographical and railroad map of the United States; thirteen comprehensive maps of Bible geography; a general survey of the world; history of the United States; each state and territory; Declaration of Independence; sketches of the Signers, with portraits; and of Presidents. County editions (typically 2 or 3 counties per volume) include brief county histories and brief biographies of early or pioneering county residents.\n\nHardesty printed about 10,000 copies of main edition, 2,000 copies of the Virginia/West Virginia supplement, and subsequently prepared local historical (county) material for very limited editions of about 250 copies each.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "12794936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12794936", "title": "Illustrationes Florae Novae Hollandiae", "text": "Illustrationes Florae Novae Hollandiae\n\nIllustrationes florae Novae Hollandiae is an 1813 publication by the botanical illustrator Ferdinand Bauer.\n\nBauer was scientific illustrator on board during Matthew Flinders' exploration of Australia, and as such he worked closely with the expedition's naturalist, Robert Brown. When these men returned to England in 1805, they brought with them thousands of specimens and hundreds of sketches. Initially, they planned to publish a large-scale work, to be entitled \"Illustrationes florae Novae Hollandiae\", but this venture failed, and Brown decided to publish his scientific descriptions separately, in \"Transactions of the Linnean Society of London\", and later his own \"Prodromus Florae Novae Hollandiae et Insulae Van Diemen\". Bauer then undertook to publish a lesser work himself, with Brown providing text limited to a brief preface and some captioning.\n\nUnusually, Bauer not only did all the illustrations, but also engraved the printing plates and hand-coloured the illustrations. It was exceedingly unusual for a single artist to perform all three roles; it is said that Bauer did the engraving himself because he could not find a good engraver, and previous works of his were disappointing because of incompetent engraving.\n\nThree issues of \"Illustrationes florae Novae Hollandiae\" were published, all in 1813. These three issues totalled fifteen plates, and a sixteenth was bound into some copies. Publication then ceased, probably because the venture was a financial failure. It is estimated that less than fifty copies of the work were sold, and some of these were uncoloured. It is therefore now an extremely rare book. In 1997, a copy was sold at Christie's for $57,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "23927856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23927856", "title": "Journal of Legal Pluralism and Unofficial Law", "text": "Journal of Legal Pluralism and Unofficial Law\n\nThe Journal of Legal Pluralism and Unofficial Law (formerly African Law Studies) is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal focusing on all aspects of legal pluralism and unofficial law. It was established in 1969 and is the official publication of the Commission on Legal Pluralism. The journal is published by Taylor & Francis. The editor-in-chief is Dik Roth (Wageningen University). Past editors-in-chief include Melanie Wiber (University of New Brunswick) and Gordon Woodman (University of Birmingham).\n"}
{"id": "21759440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21759440", "title": "King Abdul Aziz Historical Centre", "text": "King Abdul Aziz Historical Centre\n\nThe King Abdul Aziz Historical Centre is a region in the city of Riyadh, the capital of Saudi Arabia. It is not the \"historic center\" of the city as this lies to the south around Masmak fort and the main Friday Mosque\" in the Dira district. The origin of the \"King Abdul Aziz Historical Centre\" is the former compound of the Murabba' Palace, that was built in 1936/37 by King Abdul Aziz about one and a half kilometers to the north of the old city and well outside of the then still existing city walls. \n\nAfter 1953 the palace compound ceased to be used as main royal residence and slowly fell into dissuse. The \"Murabba' Development Project\" was later started to make use of the area for projects involved with the \"Centennial Celebrations\" in 1999. As such the area was chosen to be the site of several cultural institutions focusing on the national history in general and the history of the current Saudi State and its founder in detail. Consequently what had remained of the old palace compound buildings was restored or remodeled on plans similar to the original buildings. The surrounding area was made into a landscape of parks and plazas and new buildings were built such as the National Museum of Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe units on the west side of the area are from south to north: A remodeled mosque, the old original Murabba' Palace with main Diwan renovated as \"living museum\", the \"Memorial Hall\" on the outlines of an old courtyard house, a modern exhibition hall for the car collection, on the footprints of the old majlis and assembly hall the new Al-Dara main lobby and multipurpose hall, a documentation center with a separated men's and women's library each, an art gallery and a large internal garden. On the east side the new \"National Museum of Saudi Arabia\" was built together with the King Abdul Aziz Foundation for Research and Archives. To the south the area around the old water tower has been remodelled and now includes a small theme park. The whole project is said to have cost some 680 million Saudi riyals (about 181.33 million U.S. dollars at the time) and covers an area of some 360,000 square meters (3,000,000 sq ft).\n"}
{"id": "39339035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39339035", "title": "Lipschitz v Wolpert and Abrahams", "text": "Lipschitz v Wolpert and Abrahams\n\nIn Lipschitz and Another NNO v Wolpert and Abrahams an important case in South African law, the auditors of a company in liquidation were sued under section 184 of the Companies Act to contribute an amount in excess of R3 million to the company's assets as compensation. An exception was successfully filed to the particulars of claim on the basis that an auditor, appointed under section 98 (1) of the 1926 Companies Act, was not an \"officer of the company\" within the meaning of the phrase in section 184 (1). Holmes JA quoted section 184(1) to the following effect:\n\nWhere in the course of winding-up a company it appears that any person who has taken part in the formation or promotion of the company, or any past or present director, manager or liquidator, or \"any officer of the company\", has misapplied or retained or become liable or accountable for any money or property of the company, or been \"guilty of any misfeasance or breach of trust\" in relation to the company, the Court may, on the application of the Master or of the liquidator or of any creditor or contributory, examine into the conduct of the promoter, director, manager, liquidator, or officer, and compel him to repay or restore the money or property or any part thereof, respectively with interest at such rate as the Court thinks just, or to \"contribute such sum to the assets of the company by way of compensation\" in respect of the \"misapplication, retention, misfeasance or breach of trust\" as the Court thinks just.\n\n\"Lipschitz and Another NNO v Wolpert and Abrahams\" 1977 (2) SA 732 (A).\n"}
{"id": "12216201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12216201", "title": "List of airline codes (K)", "text": "List of airline codes (K)\n"}
{"id": "41489316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41489316", "title": "List of democratic socialist parties which have governed", "text": "List of democratic socialist parties which have governed\n\nThis is a list of democratic socialist parties which have governed countries, whether as the ruling party or as a member of a governing coalition. Most of these parties were members of the Socialist International.\n\n"}
{"id": "7911562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7911562", "title": "List of free software project directories", "text": "List of free software project directories\n\nThe following is a list of notable websites that list free software projects. These directories and repositories of free software differ from software hosting facilities (or software forges) in the number of features they offer and the type of collaboration they are designed to promote.\n\n"}
{"id": "10596308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10596308", "title": "List of magical weapons", "text": "List of magical weapons\n\nThis is a list of magical weapons from fiction and folklore. A magical weapon is one that is directly described as such in the work, or one that has obvious fantastic or supernatural qualities.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Dungeons & Dragons\" is a fantasy role-playing game with many unique magical weapons.\n\nMagic weapons are a staple of fantasy video games.\nMediEvil - The main objective in the series is to kill the undead, this fills the chalice that is collectable in every level. Once Sir Daniel Fortesque collects a full chalice, he will be rewarded many magical weapons available in the game\nLeviathan axe (God of War) an elemental frost axe that can be summoned/returned to the user as they wish\n\n\n\nSome weapons in fiction do not, strictly speaking, have magical properties, but are forged with materials or methods that are unique in the context of the story.\n"}
{"id": "27728260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27728260", "title": "List of prisoners of the Tower of London", "text": "List of prisoners of the Tower of London\n\nFrom an early stage of its history, one of the functions of the Tower of London has been to act as a prison, though it was not designed as one. The earliest known prisoner was Ranulf Flambard in 1100 who, as Bishop of Durham, was found guilty of extortion. He had been responsible for various improvements to the design of the tower after the first architect Gundulf moved back to Rochester. He escaped from the White Tower by climbing down a rope, which had been smuggled into his cell in a wine casket.\n\nOther prisoners include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7658869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7658869", "title": "MICAD", "text": "MICAD\n\nThe Molecular Imaging and Contrast Agent Database (MICAD) is a freely accessible online source of information on \"in vivo\" molecular imaging agents. It was established as a key component of the \"Molecular Libraries and Imaging\" program of the NIH Roadmap, a set of major inter-agency initiatives accelerating medical research and the development of new, more specific therapies for a wide range of diseases.\n\nMICAD includes agents developed for imaging modalities such as positron emission tomography (PET), single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), ultrasound, computed tomography, optical imaging, and planar gamma imaging. It contains textual information, references, numerous links to MEDLINE and to other relevant resources from the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI).\n\nMICAD is edited by a team of scientific editors and curators at the National Library of Medicine, NIH. It is being developed under the guidance of a trans-NIH panel of experts in the field. Members of the imaging community are invited to contribute to the MICAD database by writing and submitting entries (chapters) on agents of their choice for online publication. The MICAD staff will work with individual guest authors to prepare the chapters. Interested members of the imaging community should contact the MICAD staff at micad@ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.\n"}
{"id": "707752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=707752", "title": "Minority language", "text": "Minority language\n\nA minority language is a language spoken by a minority of the population of a territory. Such people are termed linguistic minorities or language minorities. With a total number of 193 sovereign states recognized internationally (as of 2008) and an estimated number of roughly 5,000 to 7,000 languages spoken worldwide, it follows that the vast majority of languages are minority languages in every country in which they are spoken. Some minority languages are simultaneously also official languages, including the Irish language in Ireland. Likewise, some national languages are often considered minority languages, insofar as they are the national language of a stateless nation.\n\nFor the purposes of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages:\n\nIn most European countries the minority languages are defined by legislation or constitutional documents and afforded some form of official support. In 1992, Council of Europe adopted European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages to protect and promote historical regional and minority languages in Europe.\n\nThe signatories that have not yet ratified it as of 2012 are Azerbaijan, France, Ireland (since Irish is the first official language and there are no other minority languages), Iceland, Italy, Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, and Russia.\n\nIn Canada the term appears in the Constitution of Canada in the heading above section 23 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which guarantees official language minority communities educational rights. In Canada, the term \"minority language\" is generally understood to mean whichever of the official languages is less spoken in a particular province or territory (i.e., English in Québec, French elsewhere).\n\nMinority languages may be marginalised within nations for a number of reasons. These include having a relatively small number of speakers, a decline in the number of speakers, and popular belief of them as uncultured, primitive, or simple dialects when compared to the dominant language. Support for minority languages is sometimes viewed as supporting separatism, for example the ongoing revival of the Celtic languages (Irish, Welsh, Scottish Gaelic, Manx, Cornish and Breton). Immigrant minority languages are often also seen as a threat and as indicative of the non-integration of these communities. Both of these perceived threats are based on the notion of the exclusion of the majority language speakers. Often this is added to by political systems by not providing support (such as education and policing) in these languages.\n\nSpeakers of majority languages can and do learn minority languages, through the large number of courses available. It is not known whether most students of minority languages are members of the minority community re-connecting with the community's language, or others seeking to become familiar with it.\n\nThere is a difference of views as to whether the protection of official languages by a state representing the majority speakers violates or not the human rights of minority speakers. In March 2013, Rita Izsák, UN Independent Expert on minority issues, said that \"protection of linguistic minority rights is a human rights obligation and an essential component of good governance, efforts to prevent tensions and conflict, and the construction of equal and politically and socially stable societies\".\n\nIn Slovakia for example, the Hungarian community generally considers the 'language law' enacted in 1995 discriminative and inconsistent with the European Charter for the Protection of Regional or Minority languages, while majority Slovakians view that minority speakers' rights are guaranteed in accordance with the highest European standards and not discriminated against by the preferential status of the state language. The language law declares that \"the Slovakian language enjoys a preferential status over other languages spoken on the territory of the Slovakian Republic\" and as a result of a 2009 amendment, a fine of up to €5,000 may be imposed for a misdemeanor from the regulations protecting the preferential status of the state language, e.g. if the name of a shop or a business is indicated on a sign-board first in the minority language and only after it in Slovakian, or if in a bilingual text the minority language part is written with bigger fonts than its Slovakian equivalent, or if the bilingual text on a monument is translated from the minority language to the dominant language and not vice versa, or if a civil servant or doctor communicates with a minority speaker citizen in a minority language in a local community where the proportion of the minority speakers is less than 20%.\n\nSign languages are often not recognized as true natural languages even though they are supported by extensive research.\n\nSpeakers of auxiliary languages have also struggled for their recognition, perhaps partly because they are used primarily as second languages and have few native speakers.\n\nLanguages that have the status of a national language and are spoken by the majority population in at least one country, but lack recognition in countries where there is a significant minority linguistic community:\n\nLinguistic communities that form no majority in any country, but whose language has the status of an official language in at least one country:\n\n\nA treasure language is one of the thousands of small languages still spoken in the world today. The term was proposed by the Rama people of Nicaragua as an alternative to heritage language, indigenous language, and \"ethnic language\", names that are considered pejorative in the local context. The term is now also used in the context of public storytelling events.\n\nThe term \"treasure language\" references the desire of speakers to sustain the use of their mother tongue into the future:\nAccordingly, the term is distinct from endangered language for which objective criteria are available, or heritage language which describes an end-state for a language where individuals are more fluent in a dominant language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33602897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33602897", "title": "Mlombo v Fourie", "text": "Mlombo v Fourie\n\nMlombo v Fourie is an important and contentious case in South African property law. It was heard before Trollip J in the Transvaal Provincial Division on May 29, 1964.\n\nMlombo, the owner of the property, instituted the \"rei vindicatio\" action against Fourie for having fraudulently ceased to possess it.\n\nThe court ordered Fourie to make good the value of the lost property.\n\nThe decision has been criticised by legal commentators for having blurred the distinction between the \"rei vindicatio\" and the \"actio ad exhibendum\". The \"rei vindicatio\", or vindicatory action, is a remedy available to an owner to reclaim his property, from wherever it is found and from whosoever is holding it, entitling him to \"exclusive possession.\" The true application of the remedy is aimed merely at restoring proprietary interest; it does not include damages. The \"actio ad exhibendum\", which is a delictual remedy, usually does include a claim for damages. By awarding damages in terms of the \"rei vindicatio\", which is a restorative proprietary remedy, the court failed to appreciate this distinction.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45276937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45276937", "title": "Modernisation losers thesis", "text": "Modernisation losers thesis\n\nThe modernisation losers thesis, or modernisation losers theory, is a theory associated with the academic Hans-Georg Betz that posits that individuals support far-right political parties because they wish to undo changes associated with modernisation.\n\nThe modernisation losers theory has been seen as a combination of two theories (a) the relative deprivation theory and (b) the social breakdown theory.\nBetz suggests that the move from an industrial to post-industrial economy is one aspect of this 'modernisation'. The academic Jens Rydgren describes the thesis as 'one of the central tenets in the literature on the new radical right-wing parties'.\n\n"}
{"id": "31870683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31870683", "title": "National Corpus of Polish", "text": "National Corpus of Polish\n\nThe National Corpus of Polish (Polish : Narodowy Korpus Języka Polskiego NKJP) is the biggest and the most important corpus of the Polish language. A linguistic corpus is a collection of texts where one can find the typical use of a single word or a phrase, as well as their meaning and grammatical function.\n\nThe National Corpus of Polish is a shared initiative of four institutions: Institute of Computer Science and the Institute of the Polish Language at the Polish Academy of Sciences, Polish Scientific Publishers PWN, and the Department of Computational and Corpus Linguistics at the University of Łódź. It has been registered as a research-development project of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education.\n\nThe intended size of the whole National Corpus of Polish is over 1 billion words, of which a 300-million word subcorpus has been carefully balanced, and a manually-annotated 1-million corpus has been released under an open license. The corpus is accessible online at http://nkjp.pl/poliqarp/\n\nThe corpus contains classic literature, daily newspapers, specialist periodicals and journals, transcripts of conversations, and a variety of short-lived and internet texts.\n\n\nThe first corpus to emerge was developed by the Institute of the Polish Language, Polish Academy of Sciences (not publicly available), followed by the corpus of PWN publishers, then the corpus of the PELCRA group at the University of Łódź, and finally the corpus of the Institute of Computer Science, Polish Academy of Science. All four teams decided to join forces in 2006, forming the Consortium for the National Corpus of Polish.\n\n"}
{"id": "12558714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12558714", "title": "New Interpreter's Dictionary of the Bible", "text": "New Interpreter's Dictionary of the Bible\n\nThe New Interpreter's Dictionary of the Bible is a five volume dictionary of the Bible. The volumes were released by Abingdon Press from 2006 to 2009. This work contains 8,400 articles written by 900 scholars from forty different countries. The general editor is Katharine Doob Sakenfeld, Professor of Old Testament at Princeton Theological Seminary in Princeton, NJ. According to Professor Sakenfeld, the purpose of this work is to provide \"scholarship in the service of the church.\"\n\nVolume 1 : A–C\nVolume 2 : D–H\nVolume 3 : I–Ma\nVolume 4 : Me–R\nVolume 5 : S–Z\n"}
{"id": "1936139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1936139", "title": "New Orleans Mint", "text": "New Orleans Mint\n\nThe New Orleans Mint () operated in New Orleans, Louisiana, as a branch mint of the United States Mint from 1838 to 1861 and from 1879 to 1909. During its years of operation, it produced over 427 million gold and silver coins of nearly every American denomination, with a total face value of over US$ 307 million. It was closed during most of the American Civil War and Reconstruction.\n\nAfter it was decommissioned as a mint, the building has served a variety of purposes, including as an assay office, a United States Coast Guard storage facility, and a fallout shelter.\n\nSince 1981 it has served as a branch of the Louisiana State Museum. Damaged by Hurricane Katrina in 2005, after over two years of repairs and renovations, the museum reopened in October 2007.\n\nExhibits include instruments used by some of New Orleans' notable jazz musicians, photographs, and posters, now part of the New Orleans Jazz Museum. The site is also a performance venue for jazz concerts, in partnership with the New Orleans Jazz National Historical Park and the private Music at the Mint organization.\n\nThe Louisiana Historical Center is located on the third floor of the building. The center includes collections of colonial-era manuscripts and maps, and primary and secondary source materials in a wide range of media. It is open to anyone with an interest in Louisiana history and culture.\n\nThe New Orleans Mint has been designated a National Historic Landmark, and it is the oldest extant structure to have served as a U.S. Mint. Along with the Charlotte Mint, it is one of two former mint facilities in the U.S. to house an art gallery.\n\nThe rapidly growing United States in the early 1830s experienced a shortage of coins. It is estimated that in 1830 there was one small silver coin (quarter, dime or half dime) per person. Also, production of silver dollars was suspended in 1804 because they were being exchanged for underweight Spanish coins in the West Indies. That left the half-dollar as the largest denomination of circulating coin being minted in the U. S. Foreign coins were being circulated in the U. S. to alleviate the shortage. The Philadelphia Mint had been the only U. S. mint until 1838, when operations began at the first branch mints. \nIn 1832 President Andrew Jackson had vetoed a rechartering of the Second Bank of the United States, an institution which he felt extended credit to northeastern commercial tycoons at the expense of the ordinary frontiersmen of the Old Southwest, a region with which Jackson, a Tennessean, strongly identified. In 1836 Jackson had issued an executive order called the Specie Circular which demanded that all land transactions in the United States be conducted in cash. Both of these actions, combined with the economic depression following the Panic of 1837 (caused partly by Jackson's fiscal policies) increased the domestic need for minted money.\n\nAs a result, in 1835 the U.S. Federal Government established three branch mints: the Charlotte Mint in North Carolina, the Dahlonega Mint in Georgia and the New Orleans Mint. Dahlonega and Charlotte were in gold mining regions and these mints produced only gold coins. New Orleans was selected because of the city's strategic location along the Mississippi River which made it a vitally important center for commercial activity, including the export of cotton from the area's plantations. Large quantities of gold from Mexico also passed through its port annually.\n\nIn the early 19th century, New Orleans, which was the fifth-largest city in the United States until the Civil War, conducted more foreign trade than any other city in the nation. It was also located relatively near to gold deposits recently discovered in Alabama. While the Philadelphia Mint produced a substantial quantity of coinage, in the early 19th century it could not disperse the money swiftly to the far regions of the new nation, particularly the South and West. In contrast to the other two Southern branch mints, which only minted gold coinage, the New Orleans Mint produced both gold and silver coins, and in much greater quantities and total value, which marked it as the most important branch mint in the country until the San Francisco Mint began minting a large monetary value of gold coins in the mid 1850s.\n\nThe Mint's location occupies a prominent place in civic history. It sits at one of the two River corners of the French Quarter, which had been the entire city, or \"Vieux Carré\", of New Orleans. Under French and Spanish rule this location was home to one of the city's defensive fortifications. In 1792 the Spanish governor, Francisco Luis Héctor de Carondelet, erected Fort San Carlos (later Fort St. Charles) here. The fort was demolished in 1821; and the nearby area was later named Jackson Square in honor of Andrew Jackson. As a general in the United States Army, Jackson's leadership had saved the city from invading British forces during December 1814 and through January 8, 1815, the date of the famous Battle of New Orleans, the last significant battle of the War of 1812.\n\nThe Mint building, which was constructed in red brick, was designed by architect William Strickland in the Greek Revival style, like most 19th-century public buildings in the United States. Strickland was a student of the architect Benjamin Latrobe, a disciple of Neoclassicism who had helped design the United States Capitol building in Washington, D.C. Strickland himself, based in Philadelphia, had already designed the Philadelphia Mint building and the Second Bank of the United States, and would design the Charlotte and Dahlonega facilities, making him the architect of the first four U.S. mint buildings. Martin Gordon supervised the building's construction, which was undertaken by Benjamin F. Fox, the master carpenter and joiner, and John Mitchell, the master stonemason and builder.\n\nOn the north façade the mint building features a central projecting Ionic portico, supported by four monumental columns that are flanked at the ends by square pillars. The top of the portico contains a simple entablature, crowned by a flat roof in front of a simple, unadorned pediment. This entrance, which sits on top of a basement story, fronts the rectangular central core of the facility and is flanked by two large wings of multiple bays of rectangular windows. These wings wrap around the central rectangular core to form a \"W\"-shaped structure with two square courtyards at the rear. Balconies framed by iron railings and posts adorn the sections of the building's south façade that adjoin the courtyards. Architectural historian Talbot Hamlin described it thus: \"it has those graceful, original proportions so characteristic of Strickland's work. Even today [1944], condemned to a use so different from that for which it was designed, it remains one of the most distinguished of the earlier buildings of New Orleans.\"\n\nOn the interior, Strickland placed the grand staircase that connects the three levels immediately behind the portico in the central core of the structure. The floor system is composed of fired-clay jack arches supported on steel I-beams, a common feature of warehouses and other long-span structures. On the second floor, many of the larger rooms, which were used for coining and melting, contain ceilings with beautiful high arches supported by the walls and freestanding piers. The smaller rectangular rooms on the second level (and the basement), such as the former superintendent's office, also contain these arched ceilings with a single groin vault. The basement formerly contained the boilers inside a brick cage, but now contain museum exhibits devoted to the minting processes as well as the Coin Vault at the Mint, a coin shop.\n\nStrickland did not take into account the swampy lowland and high water table that characterizes the terrain around New Orleans, and so during its career the New Orleans Mint building has encountered numerous structural problems from the shifting soil beneath its foundation. In the 1840s the building was reinforced with iron rods inserted between the floors. In 1854, the federal government hired West Point engineering graduate (and Louisiana native) Pierre Gustave Toutant Beauregard to fireproof the building, rebuild the arches supporting the basement ceiling and install masonry flooring. Beauregard completed the work in conjunction with Captain Johnson K. Duncan by 1859. During this period, the Mint's heavy machinery was converted to steam power so a smokestack (since demolished) was built at the rear of the structure to carry away the fumes.\n\nLess than two years later, Beauregard would rise to national fame as the Confederate general who ordered the April 1861 assault on Fort Sumter in Charleston harbor, South Carolina, thus beginning the American Civil War. It was during the war that Beauregard would secure his place in American history as one of the Confederacy's most capable generals.\n\nLike any other mint the New Orleans Mint was a factory to make coins. Operations at the New Orleans Mint began on March 8, 1838, with the deposit of the first Mexican gold bullion. The first coins, 30 dimes, were struck on May 7. Until it was taken over by the Confederacy in 1861 it produced many different denominations, all of which were either silver or gold: silver three-cent pieces (1851 only), half dimes, dimes, quarters, half dollars, silver dollars, gold dollars, $2.50 quarter eagles, three-dollar pieces, $5 half-eagles, $10 eagles, and $20 double eagles.\n\nMany interesting characters served at the Mint during the early years of operation. One was John Leonard Riddell, who served as melter and refiner at the Mint from 1839 to 1848, and, outside of his job, pursued interests in botany, medicine, chemistry, geology, and physics. He invented the binocular microscope. He also wrote on numismatics, publishing in 1845 a book entitled \"Monograph of the Silver Dollar, Good and Bad, Illustrated With Facsimile Figures\", and two years later an article by him appeared in \"DeBow's Review\" called \"The Mint at New Orleans—Processes Pursued of Working the Precious Metals—Statistics of Coinage, etc.\" Riddell was not held in high esteem by everyone, however: his conflicts with other Mint employees were well-documented, and at one point he was accused of being unable to properly conduct a gold melt.\n\nThroughout the 19th century the New Orleans Mint was frequently featured in magazines, newspapers and other print publications. Articles discussing and images picturing the Mint, in addition to the one by Riddell noted above, were featured in \"Ballou's Pictorial Drawing-Room Companion\", published in Boston, and the widely circulated \"Harper's Weekly\".\n\nThe New Orleans Mint operated continuously from 1838 until January 26, 1861, when Louisiana seceded from the United States. On January 29, the Secession Convention reconvened at New Orleans (it had earlier met in Baton Rouge) and passed an ordinance that allowed Federal employees to remain in their posts, but as employees of the state of Louisiana. On February 5, 1861, during the proceedings of the Convention of the State of Louisiana in New Orleans, the committee appointed by the Convention to take an inventory on February 1, 1861, of public property in the hands of the officers of 'the late' Federal government reported that the Sub-Treasurer's vault at the mint contained $483,983 in gold and silver coins. The National Archives records in Rockville, Maryland, indicate the $483,983 consisted of $308,771 in gold coins and $175,212.08 in silver coins. The only gold coin produced in January, 1861 was the $20 gold double-eagle. This means 15,438 $20 gold coins were minted by the New Orleans Mint during January, 1861. Mint coinage records for the $20 1861-O gold double-eagle indicate only 5,000 $20 gold pieces were minted by the Federal Government in January, 1861. This discrepancy is explained in a Numismatist Journal article.\n\nIn March 1861, Louisiana accepted the Confederate States Constitution and the Confederate government retained all the mint officers. They used it briefly as their own coinage facility. The Confederates struck 962,633 of the 2,532,633 New Orleans half-dollar coins dated 1861. Research suggests that 1861-O half dollars bearing a bisected date die crack (\"WB-103\") and 1861-O half-dollars with a \"speared olive bud\" anomaly (\"WB-104\") on the reverse had been minted under authority of the Confederacy. Confederate officials designed alternate reverse dies which they used to strike their own half-dollars in New Orleans (see image). The exact number of the half-dollar coins struck by the Confederate mint with the alternate reverse is unknown; but only four are known to exist today. One of them, which was sold at auction for a large sum, had once been owned by Jefferson Davis, the only President of the C.S.A.\n\nConfederate minting operations continued from April 1 until the bullion ran out later that month. The staff remained on duty until May 31, 1861. After that the mint was used for quartering Confederate troops, until it was recaptured along with the rest of the city the following year, largely by Union naval forces under the command of Admiral David Farragut.\n\nFor many Southern sympathizers, the Mint soon became a symbol of their hatred for the Union occupation. After U.S. Marines under Farragut had raised the U.S. flag on the roof of the Mint in April 1862, a professional steamboat gambler named William Bruce Mumford ascended the roof and tore the flag down. He ripped the banner into shreds, and defiantly stuffed pieces of it into his shirt to wear as souvenirs. Union General Benjamin Franklin Butler, the military governor of New Orleans (who was soon to be derisively nicknamed \"Spoons\" for allegedly pocketing the silverware of New Orleans citizens arrested for treason against the United States), ordered Mumford executed in retaliation. And so, Mumford was hanged from a flagstaff projecting horizontally from the building on June 7, 1862. Mumford's hanging made national headlines. Jefferson Davis demanded that Butler immediately be executed if captured. The event stuck in the minds of many New Orleanians: eleven years later, in 1873, a visitor to the city named Edward King mentioned it in his description of the structure.\n\nThe mint reopened as an assay office in 1876. Its machinery was evidently damaged during the war, but because of its importance, unlike the mints at Charlotte and Dahlonega, in 1877 U.S. Mint agent James R. Snowden asked the superintendent of the office, Dr. M. F. Bonzano, to report on the condition of the facility for minting. Upon receipt of Bonzano's report, new minting equipment was shipped to New Orleans. The building was refurbished and put back into active minting service in 1879, producing mainly silver coinage, including the famed Morgan silver dollar from 1879 to 1904.\n\nThe refurbishment and recommissioning of the New Orleans Mint was due partly to the fact that in 1878 the Federal government in Washington, D.C. had passed the Bland–Allison Act, which mandated the purchase and coining of a large quantity of silver yearly. The Treasury Department needed additional facilities to do so. It reopened the New Orleans facility primarily to coin large quantities of silver dollars, most of which were simply stored in the building instead of circulated. President Rutherford B. Hayes appointed former Mississippi Senator and governor Henry S. Foote the new superintendent of the mint.\n\nDuring this second period of operation, the Mint also struck dimes, quarters, half dollars, $5 half eagles, $10 eagles and, in 1879 only, 2,325 double eagles. It should also be noted that the New Orleans Mint was used by the Federal authorities in 1907 to coin over five and a half million silver twenty-centavo pieces for the Mexican government as part of the American government's program of producing foreign coinage. The New Orleans Mint, whose coins can be identified by the \"O\" mint mark found on the reverse of its coinage, earned a reputation for producing coins of a mediocre quality; their luster is usually not as brilliant as those of other mints, and center areas tend to be flattened and not sharply struck. Thus, well-struck New Orleanian coinage is prized in the numismatic world today.\n\n Men made up the majority of the workers at the mint. They worked such jobs as coiners, melters, pressers, cutters, and rollers. The mint was overseen by a superintendent, who was always male. He was a political appointee whose term usually did not last much longer than the party which held the presidency remained in power.\n\nBut it was also during the mint's second tour of duty that women began to find work at the New Orleans Mint. Several women workers were sent from the Philadelphia Mint to teach those in New Orleans how to adjust money. About this time, the mint employed forty-four women. Thirty-nine worked as adjusters – employees who weighed the unstamped coin planchets to make sure they were the proper weight before coining. These women would sit at long narrow tables, filing the planchets down to the proper weight, wearing special aprons with pouches attached to the sleeves and the waist to catch the excess dust. Five women served as counters and packers before the coins were shipped to Washington, D.C. Some women were eventually employed at the coining presses.\n\nThe women worked from 8:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. daily – not long hours – but the working conditions were probably unbearable by modern standards. New Orleans has a warm, wet climate. The process of adjusting, however, required the utmost attention to the scales' balance, and the slightest draft could upset it. The draft could also carry off the silver dust from the coin planchets the women would file. For these reasons the windows and doors were almost always kept shut, resulting in a very hot working environment. Workers relied on water coolers to provide relief from the heat and avoid dehydration. The women mint employees were judged to enjoy better working conditions than many other American women workers in the late nineteenth century.\n\nBy the early twentieth century, the U.S. Treasury had mints operating in New Orleans, Denver, San Francisco, and the main center in Philadelphia, which more than met the demand for minted money. In 1904, the government ceased the minting of the silver dollar, which accounted for the bulk of the coinage the New Orleans branch had been producing since 1879. In 1909 Treasury officials declined to appropriate funds for the mint's operation, effectively halting subsequent minting activity in New Orleans. In 1911, the New Orleans Mint was formally decommissioned and the machinery was transferred to the main U. S. Mint facility in Philadelphia.\n\nTwenty years later, in 1930, Governor Huey Long would rail against this loss when he ran for the office of U.S. Senator against incumbent Joseph E. Ransdell. In a circular distributed by his campaign to the citizens of New Orleans, Long listed the loss of the Mint as the very first of many complaints against Ransdell's lengthy service record in the Senate. Long went on to win the election, although he did not take office until his term as governor expired in 1932. At some point, however, the original New Orleans machinery was lost, and, at present, has not been located.\n\nAfter the mint closed, it performed a variety of functions for the Federal government. It was first downgraded to an assay office for the U.S. Treasury as it had been from 1876 to 1879. Then, in 1932, the assay office closed and the building was converted into a Federal prison, in which capacity it served until 1943. The Coast Guard then took over the building as a nominal storage facility, though in truth the structure was largely abandoned and left to decay until it was transferred to the state of Louisiana in 1965. During the Cold War, when many believed there to be a high risk of nuclear war, the old Mint was considered to be the best fallout shelter in the city.\n\nThe state agreed to save the structure from demolition on the condition that it be renovated and converted to some new purpose within fifteen years. Between 1978 and 1980 this goal was met. Since 1981, the Mint building has functioned as a museum of its coin production history. Additional exhibitions housed in the facility have been devoted to New Orleans Mardi Gras (since moved to the Presbytere building on Jackson Square), jazz music (a large exhibit and research materials previously in the New Orleans Jazz Museum – donated by the N.O. Jazz Club), and Newcomb Pottery. All three phenomena have contributed to New Orleans' fame.\n\nOn the third floor, the Mint houses an archive of maps and documents, including French and Spanish colonial records. Along with the Cabildo, the Presbytere, the 1850 House, and Madame John's Legacy, this facility is one of five branches of the Louisiana State Museum in the French Quarter.\nThe Mint building is located at 400 Esplanade Avenue, not far from the Mississippi River.\n\nThe mint building suffered significant roof damage from the hurricane. Water entered the building and came into contact with approximately 3% of the New Orleans Jazz collection, portions of which were removed and cared for at Louisiana State University, the University of Louisiana at Lafayette, and the Louisiana State Archives.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41852367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41852367", "title": "Padanian Declaration of Independence", "text": "Padanian Declaration of Independence\n\nThe Padanian Declaration of Independence (), fully: \"Declaration of independence and sovereignty of Padania\" (\"Dichiarazione di indipendenza e sovranità della Padania\") was issued on 15 September 1996 in Venice by Umberto Bossi, leader of Lega Nord.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2559987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2559987", "title": "Penaeus monodon", "text": "Penaeus monodon\n\nPenaeus monodon, commonly known as the giant tiger prawn or Asian tiger shrimp (and also known by other common names), is a marine crustacean that is widely reared for food.\n\n\"Penaeus monodon\" was first described by Johan Christian Fabricius in 1798. That name was overlooked for a long time, however, until 1949, when Lipke Holthuis clarified to which species it referred. Holthuis also showed that \"P. monodon\" had to be the type species of the genus \"Penaeus\".\n\nFemales can reach about long, but are typically long and weight ; males are slightly smaller at long and weighing . The carapace and abdomen are transversely banded with alternative red and white. The antennae are grayish brown. Brown pereiopods and pleopods are present with fringing setae in red.\n\nIts natural distribution is the Indo-Pacific, ranging from the eastern coast of Africa and the Arabian Peninsula, as far as Southeast Asia, the Pacific Ocean, and northern Australia.\n\nIt is an invasive species in the northern waters of the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean off the southern US.\n\n\"Penaeus monodon\" is the second-most widely cultured prawn species in the world, after only whiteleg shrimp, \"Litopenaeus vannamei\". In 2009, 770,000 tonnes were produced, with a total value of US$3,650,000,000.\n\nIn 2010, Greenpeace added \"Penaeus monodon\" to its seafood red list – \"a list of fish that are commonly sold in supermarkets around the world, and which have a very high risk of being sourced from unsustainable fisheries\". The reasons given by Greenpeace were \"destruction of vast areas of mangroves in several countries, over-fishing of juvenile shrimp from the wild to supply farms, and significant human rights abuses\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39061875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39061875", "title": "Poetry Archive", "text": "Poetry Archive\n\nThe Poetry Archive is a free, web-based library formed to hold recordings of English language poets reading their own work. It was founded by recording producer Richard Carrington and poet Andrew Motion, during his appointment as UK Poet Laureate in 1999. Recordings of contemporary work began in 2000 and the site went live in 2005. The Poetry Archive is a not-for-profit registered UK charity.\n\nThe archive was established as a web-based library to ensure that the oral record of modern poets is not lost, as it has been with writers such as Thomas Hardy, D. H. Lawrence and A. E. Housman whose voices were never recorded, despite the technology being available at the time. The resource is built on the idea that poets have a unique relationship with their own work and are often able to communicate the nuance, musicality and subtlety of it, with a deeper understanding than actors. Texts to the poems and other resources are available but the poet's voice is the main concern of the site. Motion has stated \"To hear the speed at which a poet reads, to hear their accent, to hear how they inflect their voice, to hear how they create a space around their words - or don't - all add to our using of what the meaning of poem might be.\" Contemporary studio recordings for the project began in 2000, shortly after Motion was appointed a Poet Laureate, and the site went live in 2005. Most of the recordings are created especially for the organisation, however some historic readings are archived. Poets are chosen by a selection panel, chaired by Andrew Motion and works added to the site every month. CDs of archive works are available. Launched in 2014, there is also a download store which allows people to purchase and download audio poetry directly from the website.\n\nIn the first year, the site had 500,000 visitors, building to over 1.5 million annual users in 2008, nearly 2 million in 2009 and over 3 million in 2012. The archive forms part of the permanent legacy of Motion's time as Poet Laureate. He states that he would never have been able to raise the £2000000 needed to launch the library without his position. The project was initially funded by the National Lottery, government grants and private donors in conjunction with work by Jean Sprackland.\n\nThe current president is Sir Daniel Day-Lewis. The previous president was the late poet Seamus Heaney and the project is supported by patrons Billy Collins and Melvyn Bragg.\n\nAs of September 2015, the readings of over 400 poets are available on the site, with content searchable by title, author, theme, and form. Historic recordings available on the archive include Alfred Tennyson (recorded by Thomas Edison 1890), Robert Browning (1889), Rudyard Kipling (1921) W. B. Yeats (1932) and Langston Hughes (1955). Contemporary writers include Seamus Heaney, Billy Collins, Carol Ann Duffy and John Ashbery.\n\nThe work of New Zealand Allen Curnow was recorded shortly before his death in 2001, one of the first to be archived. Cornish poet Charles Causley gave a reading aged 86, in the year before he died in 2003. Motion commented:\nIn 2006 historic readings by Dylan Thomas, Ted Hughes and Walter de la Mare, were added. That same year, the project worked with the BBC to archive rare readings by Siegfried Sassoon, Robert Graves and Philip Larkin. In 2008 over 60 American recordings were archived on the site, in collaboration with the Poetry Foundation, based in Chicago. Readers include Ted Kooser, Robert Pinsky, and Philip Levine. The main archive site also includes children's poetry, with a separate website being developed www.childrenspoetryarchive.org dedicated solely to presenting children's poetry, with work by poets such as Roald Dahl, Spike Milligan and Michael Rosen.\n\nThe website also now features collections of classic poetry being read by contemporary poets and some famous voices, including Helen Mirren, Stephen Fry, Judi Dench and Alan Rickman.\n\nThe archive also includes extensive material for teachers and students, including glossaries, biographies and lesson plans that integrated as a school resource.\n\nIn 2012, independent activist Phantom Bill Stickers pasted poems up in public spaces in New Zealand cities, featuring bar codes that could be scanned by smart phones. The code linked to the writers reading their poem on the Poetry Archive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "407209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407209", "title": "Primary Atomic Reference Clock in Space", "text": "Primary Atomic Reference Clock in Space\n\nThe Primary Atomic Reference Clock in Space or PARCS was an atomic-clock mission scheduled to fly on the International Space Station (ISS) in 2008, but cancelled to make way for the Vision for Space Exploration. The mission, to have been funded by NASA, involved a laser-cooled caesium atomic clock, and a time-transfer system using Global Positioning System (GPS) satellites. PARCS was to fly concurrently with the Superconducting Microwave Oscillator (SUMO) a different type of clock that was to be compared against the PARCS clock to test certain theories. The objectives of the mission were to have been:\n\n\nThe proposed ISS location for the experiment was on the External Facility of the Japanese Experimental Module (JEM). This location afforded good views of the GPS constellation of satellites, needed for comparing space and ground clocks. In addition, the volume, available power, and coolant system were well matched to the mission requirements.\n\nThe microgravity environment of space allows slowing of atoms to speeds well below those used in terrestrial atomic clocks, providing for substantial improvement in clock accuracy. This very accurate space clock will be compared continuously to the SUMO oscillator, and these two clocks (being fundamentally different) will provide a test of \"local position invariance.\" Comparisons between the space and earth clocks will yield a related, but important measurement of the gravitational frequency shift. Finally, the signals conveyed to the ground through the GPS time-transfer system will serve as a truly international time standard available to anyone on earth.\n\nPARCS is a cooperative effort between the following organizations:\n\n\nBill Klipstein of JPL was the Project Scientist, and Dave Seidel of JPL was the Project Manager. The Co-Principal Investigators were Don Sullivan and Bill Phillips of NIST, and Neil Ashby of the University of Colorado. John Lipa of Stanford University was the Principal Investigator for SUMO and John Dick of JPL serves was the Project Scientist for that program.\n\n"}
{"id": "17815480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17815480", "title": "Proofpoint, Inc.", "text": "Proofpoint, Inc.\n\nProofpoint is an enterprise security company based in Sunnyvale, California that provides software as a service and products for inbound email security, outbound data loss prevention, social media, mobile devices, digital risk, email encryption, electronic discovery (\"eDiscovery”), and email archiving. It claims over half of the Fortune 100 as users of its solutions.\n\nThe company was founded in June 2002 by Eric Hahn, formerly the CTO of Netscape Communications. It launched July 21, 2003, after raising a $7 million Series A funding round, releasing its first product, and lining up six customers as references, and was backed by venture investors Benchmark Capital and Stanford University. An additional $9 million in Series B funding led by New York-based RRE Ventures was announced in October, 2003.\n\nProofpoint became a publicly traded company in April 2012. At the time of its initial public offering (IPO), the company's shares traded at $13 apiece; investors purchased more than 6.3 million shares through the IPO, raising more than $80 million.\n\nThe company's first product was the Proofpoint Protection Server for medium and large businesses. It incorporated what was described as \"MLX Technology\", proprietary machine learning algorithms applied to the problem of accurately identifying spam email using 10,000 different attributes to differentiate between spam and valid email. The company joined dozens of other anti-spam software providers in a business opportunity fueled by an exponential increase in spam volume that was threatening worker productivity, making spam a top business priority. According to the 2004 National Technology Readinesed the number of spam detection attributes to more than 50,000.\n\nIn 2004, strict new regulations governing financial disclosures and the privacy of health care data prompted Proofpoint to begin developing new products that would automatically identify and intercept outbound email containing sensitive information.\n\nIn March, 2004, Proofpoint introduced its first hardware appliance, the P-Series Message Protection Appliance (later renamed Proofpoint Messaging Security Gateway), using a hardened Linux kernel and Proofpoint's Protection Server 2.0 software. It was tested by Infoworld and found to stop 94% of spam.\n\nAnother product introduction in November, 2004 included Protection Server 3.0, with Email Firewall and MLX-based Dynamic Reputation Analysis, and the Content Security Suite, plug-in modules designed for scanning outbound messages and their attachments to assist in compliance with data protection regulations such as Sarbanes-Oxley, HIPAA, and Gramm-Leach-Bliley. In combination, this was known as the Proofpoint Messaging Security Gateway Appliance. It was reviewed by ChannelWeb ProofPoint Appliance Stands Guard At E-Mail Gate, ChannelWeb, Nov 26, 2004, which observed that it used a \"combination of technologies: policy-based management, a spam-filtering engine and adaptive learning technology\".\n\nProofpoint introduced a new product, the Network Content Sentry, as an add-on appliance to the Content Security Suite in August, 2005. Designed to monitor online messaging other than email, the appliance monitors Web mail, message boards, blogs and FTP-based communications. Proofpoint also introduced policy-based email encryption features, using identity-based encryption technology licensed from Voltage Security.\n\nIn a step towards simpler operational requirements, the Proofpoint Messaging Security Gateway Virtual Edition was released in April 2007. The product runs as a virtual appliance on a host running VMware's virtual server software. Moving a dedicated hardware appliance to a virtual server eliminates problems associated with proprietary hardware and reduces upgrade costs, though it does require knowledge of VMware's virtual server architecture.\n\nProofpoint Messaging Security Gateway V5.0 was released in June 2007, and was based on a new, integrated architecture, combining all its capabilities into a single platform. It could be run either as a dedicated appliance, virtual appliance, or software suite.\n\nICSA Labs, an independent division of Verizon Business, announced in April 2007, that it had certified six anti-spam products under their new testing program, one of which was the Proofpoint Messaging Security Gateway. The goal of ICSA Labs' anti-spam product testing and certification is to evaluate product effectiveness in detecting and removing spam. The guidelines also address how well the products recognize e-mail messages from legitimate sources.\n\nMoving into the software-as-a-service business, Proofpoint introduced Proofpoint on Demand, a hosted version of its email security and data loss prevention offerings. In May, 2008, the company’s hosted offerings were expanded with the introduction of Proofpoint on Demand—Standard Edition. The product is targeted at small-to-medium size businesses that need email security but do not run their own servers or have on-site IT personnel.\n\nProofpoint products are designed to solve three business problems: advanced cybersecurity threats, regulatory compliance, and brand-impostor fraud (which it calls “digital risk”). These products work across email, social media, mobile devices, and the cloud.\n\nIn June 2008, Proofpoint acquired Fortiva, Inc., a provider of on-demand Email archiving software for legal discovery, regulatory compliance and email storage management. Fortiva used Exchange journaling to automatically archive all internal and external communications so that end users can search all archived messages, including attachments, directly from a search folder in Outlook.\n\nProofpoint’s security portfolio includes products that stop both traditional cyberattacks (delivered via malicious attachments and URLs) and socially engineered attacks—such as business email compromise (BEC) and credential phishing—that do not use malware. It uses a blend of sandbox analysis, reputational analysis, automated threat data, human threat intelligence and attributes such as sender/recipient relationship, headers, and content, and more to detect potential threats. Automated encryption, data-loss prevention and forensics-gathering tools are designed to speed incident response and mitigate the damage and costs of any threats that do get through. The portfolio also includes protection from social-media account takeovers, harmful mobile apps, and rogue Wi-Fi networks.\n\nProofpoint’s compliance products are designed to reduce the manual labor involved in identifying potentially sensitive data, managing and supervising it in compliance with government and industry rules, and producing it quickly in e-discovery legal requests.\n\nProofpoint’s digital risk products are aimed at companies seeking to stop cybercriminals from impersonating their brand to harm customers, partners, and the brand’s reputation. Its email digital risk portfolio includes authentication technology to prevent email domain spoofing. On social media, it stops scams in which fraudsters create fake customer-service accounts to find people seeking help over social media and trick them into handing over account credentials or visiting a malicious website. And in mobile, it finds counterfeit apps distributed through mobile app stores.\n\nIn the 2016 Forrester Wave™ for Digital Risk Monitoring, Q3 2016 the Proofpoint digital risk / social media product was included in an evaluation of the nine top vendors in this emerging market. These solutions monitor “digital”—i.e., social, mobile, web, and dark web—channels to detect, prevent, malicious or unwanted content from undermining organizational efforts to build brand across all major social media platforms. On Oct 23, 2014 Proofpoint acquired Nexgate, Inc. a social media and security compliance vendor. On Nov 4, 2015 Proofpoint acquired Socialware Inc a compliance workflow & content capture and review technology company.\n\nThe 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 Gartner Magic Quadrant identified Proofpoint, Inc. as a leader in the “Magic Quadrant for Secure Email Gateways” for the seventh consecutive year.\n\nGartner Magic Quadrant identified Proofpoint, Inc. as a leader in the \"Enterprise Information Archiving\" 2017.\n\n2017 SC Magazine Awards: Proofpoint, Inc. was awarded: Best Email Security Solution and Best Regulatory Compliance Solution.\n\n2016 SC Magazine Award: Proofpoint, Inc. was awarded the Best Email Security Trust Award.\n\nForrester Research named Proofpoint, Inc. a “Leader” in The Forrester Wave™: Digital Risk Monitoring, Q3 2016 The Nine Vendors That Matter Most And How They Stack Up. Forrester credited Proofpoint, Inc. in the report \"Proofpoint stands above the rest of the pack with its strong portfolio of patents related to digital risk monitoring.\n\n"}
{"id": "34519075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34519075", "title": "Prussian Heritage Image Archive", "text": "Prussian Heritage Image Archive\n\nThe Prussian Heritage Image Archive ( or 'bpk') is an agency of the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation. The archive is housed at the Otto Nagel-Haus in Berlin, Germany and offers photographs, cartoons and drawings in the fields of history, culture and fine arts. The collection also contains the personal estates, archives and portfolios of many famous photographers who documented life in Germany. Organizationally, the archive is a division of the Berlin State Library.\n\nThe core of the collection was built in 1966 from the historical picture library of Hermann Handke. This stock consists of about 1 million daguerrotypes, talbotypes, photographic prints, negatives, engravings and lithographs. Through targeted acquisitions, donations and estate gifts, bpk's collection has grown to over 12 million photographs today and is one of the largest in Europe.\n\nPhotographs documenting contemporary German history form the vast majority of the collection. Photographs of works of fine arts and culture from famous museums around the world are the second main focus.\n\nThe earliest part of the collection starts with photographs from the period of the German Empire (1871–1918). During the Weimar Republic (1919–1933), press photography is particularly well represented. The period of the Third Reich and World War II (1933–1945) is widely documented by many photographers, some of whom also went on to document early postwar Germany (1945–49). Current events in the later years of West Germany is extensively well represented, as well as photographs of everyday life in the communist-ruled German Democratic Republic.\nThe core of this collection consists of photographs of fine arts and artifacts in the Berlin State Museums, the Berlin State Library and the other institutions of the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation. The collection has been expanded with digital photographs of artworks from museums outside Berlin, including the Bavarian State Picture Collection,\nthe Hamburger Kunsthalle, the Staatliche Kunstsammlungen Dresden, and the Museum der bildenden Künste in Leipzig. bpk is also the sole distributor in the German language market for photographs of fine arts from the Réunion des Musées Nationaux in Paris, including the Louvre, Musée d'Orsay and Musée National d'Art Moderne. Since 2005 bpk has become the sole distributor in Germany, Austria and Switzerland for the Italian picture agency Scala Archives, which contributes photographs of artworks in famous Italian museums.\n\nThrough its web portal, bpk makes available over 300,000 digital images from its collection. With few exceptions the agency holds exclusive copyright to its collection. Therefore the images are not in the public domain and publication rights must be obtained from bpk.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28798", "title": "SNAFU", "text": "SNAFU\n\nSNAFU is an acronym that is widely used to stand for the sarcastic expression Situation Normal: All Fucked Up. It is a well-known example of military acronym slang, however the original military acronym stood for \"Status Nominal: All Fucked Up.\" It is sometimes bowdlerized to \"all fouled up\" or similar. It means that the situation is bad, but that this is a normal state of affairs. The acronym is believed to have originated in the United States Marine Corps during World War II.\n\nIn modern usage, \"SNAFU\" is sometimes used as an interjection. \"SNAFU\" also sometimes refers to a bad situation, mistake, or cause of trouble. It is more commonly used in modern vernacular to describe running into an error or problem that is large and unexpected. For example, in 2005, \"The New York Times\" published an article titled \"Hospital Staff Cutback Blamed for Test Result Snafu\".\n\n\"SNAFU\" was first recorded in \"American Notes and Queries\" in their September 1941 issue. \"Time\" magazine used the term in their June 16, 1942 issue: \"Last week U.S. citizens knew that gasoline rationing and rubber requisitioning were snafu.\" Most reference works, including the \"Random House Unabridged Dictionary\", supply an origin date of 1940–1944, generally attributing it to the U.S. Army. Rick Atkinson ascribes the origin of \"SNAFU\", \"FUBAR\", and a bevy of other terms to cynical GIs ridiculing the Army's penchant for acronyms.\n\nThe attribution of \"SNAFU\" to the American military is not universally accepted: it has also been attributed to the British, although the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" gives its origin and first recorded use as U.S. military slang.\n\nIn a wider study of military slang, Elkin noted in 1946 that there \"are a few acceptable substitutes such as 'screw up' or 'mess up,' but these do not have the emphasis value of the obscene equivalent.\" He considered the expression to be \"a caricature of Army direction. The soldier resignedly accepts his own less responsible position and expresses his cynicism at the inefficiency of Army authority.\" He also noted that \"the expression […] is coming into general civilian use.\"\n\nSUSFU is an acronym for Situation unchanged: still fucked up\", but can also be bowdlerized—just like \"SNAFU\"—to Situation unchanged: still fouled up\" or similar. It is used in a military context, was first recorded in the \"American Notes and Queries\" in their September 1941 issue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14810479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14810479", "title": "Selah", "text": "Selah\n\nSelah (; , also transliterated as \"selāh\") is a word used 74 times in the Hebrew Bible—seventy-one times in the Psalms and three times in the Book of Habakkuk. The meaning of the word is not known, though various interpretations are given below. (It should not be confused with the Hebrew word \"sela`\" () which means \"rock\", or in an adjectival form, \"like a rock\", i.e.: firm, hard, heavy) It is probably either a liturgico-musical mark or an instruction on the reading of the text, something like \"stop and listen.\" Another proposal is that \"Selah\" can be used to indicate that there is to be a musical interlude at that point in the Psalm. The Amplified Bible translates \"selah\" as \"pause, and think of that.\" It can also be interpreted as a form of underlining in preparation for the next paragraph.\n\nAt least some of the Psalms were sung accompanied by musical instruments and there are references to this in many chapters. Thirty-one of the thirty-nine psalms with the caption \"To the choir-master\" include the word \"selah\". \"Selah\" may indicate a break in the song whose purpose is similar to that of Amen (Hebrew: \"so be it\") in that it stresses the truth and importance of the preceding passage; this interpretation is consistent with the meaning of the Semitic root \"ṣ-l-ḥ\" also reflected in Arabic cognate \"salih\" (variously \"valid\" [in the logical sense of \"truth-preserving\"], \"honest,\" and \"righteous\"). Alternatively, \"selah\" may mean \"forever,\" as it does in some places in the liturgy (notably the second to last blessing of the Amidah). Another interpretation claims that \"selah\" comes from the primary Hebrew root word \"salah\" () which means \"to hang,\" and by implication to measure (weigh).\n\nIts etymology and precise meaning are unknown. This word occurs seventy-one times in thirty-nine of the Psalms and three times in Habakkuk 3: altogether 74 times in the Bible. It is found at the end of Psalms 3, 24, and 46, and in most other cases at the end of a verse, the exceptions being Psalms 55:19, 57:3, and Hab. 3:3, 9, 13.\n\nThe significance of this term was apparently not known even by ancient Biblical commentators. This can be seen by the variety of renderings given to it. The Septuagint, Symmachus, and Theodotion translate διάψαλμα (diapsalma, or \"apart from psalm\") — a word as enigmatic in Greek as is \"selah\" in Hebrew. The Hexapla simply transliterates σελ. Aquila, Jerome, and the Targum translate it as \"always.\" According to Hippolytus (De Lagarde, \"Novæ Psalterii Græci Editionis Specimen\" 10), the Greek term διάψαλμα signified a change in rhythm or melody at the places marked by the term, or a change in thought and theme. Against this explanation Baethgen (\"Psalmen,\" p. 15, 1st ed. Göttingen, 1892) notes that \"selah\" also occurs at the \"end\" of some psalms.\n\nOne proposed meaning is given by assigning it to the root, as an imperative that should not properly have been vocalized, \"Sollah\" (Ewald, \"Kritische Grammatik der Hebräischen Sprache,\"p. 554; König, \"Historisch-Kritisches Lehrgebäude der Hebräischen Sprache,\" ii., part i., p. 539). The meaning of this imperative is given as \"Lift up,\" equivalent to \"loud\" or \"fortissimo,\" a direction to the accompanying musicians to break in at the place marked with crash of cymbals and blare of trumpets, the orchestra playing an interlude while the singers' voices were hushed. The effect, as far as the singer was concerned, was to mark a pause. This significance, too, has been read into the expression or sign, \"selah\" being held to be a variant of \"shelah\" (=\"pause\"). But as the interchange of \"shin\" ש and \"samek\" ס is not usual in Biblical Hebrew, and as the meaning \"pause\" is not held to be applicable in the middle of a verse, or where a pause would interrupt the sequence of thought, this proposition has met with little favor.\n\nGrätz argues that \"selah\" introduces a new paragraph, and also in some instances a quotation (e.g., Psalms 57:8 et seq. from 108:2 et seq.) The fact that the term occurs four times at the end of a Psalm would not weigh against this theory. The Psalms were meant to be read in sequence, and, moreover, many of them are fragments; indeed, Psalm 9 is reckoned one with Psalm 10 in the Septuagint, which omits διάψαλμα (diapsalma) also at the end of Psalms 3, 24, 46 and 68 B. Jacob (l.c.) concludes (1) that since no etymological explanation is possible, \"selah\" signifies a pause in or for the Temple song; and (2) that its meaning was concealed lest the Temple privileges should be obtained by the synagogues or perhaps even by the churches.\n\n\"The Brown-Driver-Briggs Hebrew and English Lexicon\" shows that the main derivation of the Hebrew word \"selah\" is found through the fientive verb root סֶ֜לָה which means \"to lift up (voices)\" or \"to exalt,\" and also carries a close connotational relationship to the verb סָלַל, which is similar in meaning: \"to lift up\" or \"to cast up.\" The word סֶלָה, which shifts the accent back to the last syllable of the verb form, indicates that in this context, the verb is being used in the imperative mood as somewhat of a directive to the reader. As such, perhaps the most instructive way to view the use of this word, particularly in the context of the Psalms, would be as the writer's instruction to the reader to pause and exalt the Lord.\n\nGonzo journalist Hunter S. Thompson commonly used the word to end articles and personal letters.\n\nJournalist, author and screenwriter George MacDonald Fraser used \"selah\" occasionally in The Flashman Papers, a celebrated historical fiction series published between 1969 and 2005.\n\n\"Selah\" is used in Iyaric Rastafarian vocabulary. It can be heard at the end of spoken-word segments of some reggae songs. Its usage here, again, is to accentuate the magnitude and importance of what has been said, and often is a sort of substitute for Amen. Notable, according to Rastafarian faith, is also the word's similarity with the incarnated god and savior Selassie (Ethiopia's former emperor Haile Selassie).\n\nFurman Bisher, the former sports editor and columnist for \"The Atlanta Journal-Constitution\", for decades signed off his columns with \"Selah.\" The same is often done by political columnist and blogger Ed Kilgore at the close of a day's postings.\n\nIn \"Predator 2\", just before being killed by the predator, the Jamaican drug lord King Willie says, \"His foundation lie in the holy mountain\" before pausing and adding \"Selah.\"\n\nU2 frontman Bono during a Jimmy Kimmel Live performance announced \"Take you to church, Selah,\" right before the choir started singing https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ylSoAxpcKk\n\n\"Selah\" is the name of both a sculpture and a 2017 exhibition by artist Sanford Biggers.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28105908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28105908", "title": "Stowe 54 (Histoire ancienne)", "text": "Stowe 54 (Histoire ancienne)\n\nBritish Library, Stowe 54 is a French illuminated manuscript from the first quarter of the fifteenth century of the \"Histoire ancienne jusqu'à César\" (\"Ancient History up to Caesar\"), a medieval historical compilation recounting tales of the ancient world, especially the Trojan War, the conquests of Alexander the Great (particularly the Fall of Thebes), and the greatness of ancient Rome.\n\nThe manuscript was copied in Paris from an earlier Neapolitan exemplar illuminated by Cristoforo Orimina, also held by the British Library (Royal 20 D I). The illustrations in this copy were provided by an unidentified illuminator from the Low Countries, working in Paris.\n\nThe manuscript forms part of the Stowe manuscripts in the British Library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29664650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29664650", "title": "Taktikon Uspensky", "text": "Taktikon Uspensky\n\nThe Taktikon Uspensky or Uspenskij is the conventional name of a mid-9th century Greek list of the civil, military and ecclesiastical offices of the Byzantine Empire and their precedence at the imperial court. Nicolas Oikonomides has dated it to 842/843, making it the first of a series of such documents (\"taktika\") extant from the 9th and 10th centuries. The document is named after the Russian Byzantinist Fyodor Uspensky, who discovered it in the late 19th century in a 12th/13th-century manuscript (\"codex Hierosolymitanus gr. 39\") in the library of the Eastern Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem, which also contained a portion of the \"Kletorologion\" of Philotheos, a later \"taktikon\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49053806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49053806", "title": "The DV Rebel's Guide", "text": "The DV Rebel's Guide\n\nThe DV Rebel's Guide: An All-Digital Approach to Making Killer Action Movies on the Cheap is a non-fiction book and filmmaking handbook written by Stu Maschwitz for Peachpit Press. It was his first book, and has been called \"a must-read for any and all filmmakers.\" \"MircroFilmmaker Magazine\" named it an \"industry icon.\" \n\nMaschwitz publicly announced he was working on the book in February 2006. It was officially published on December 22 of that year. \n\n\"The DV Rebel's Guide\" explores making action movies within the constraints of small or nonexistent budgets. Focus is given to working with inexpensive DV cameras. Maschwitz has a background as a film and commercial director, visual effects artist, and indie filmmaker. He cites that experience in the book while discussing a variety of filmmaking topics. Some of the areas covered include: \nMaschwitz also references numerous scenes from Hollywood films and suggests watching the films discussed in each chapter. Those scenes are analyzed, with suggestions offered to achieve similar results for little or no money. \n\nThe book shipped with an accompanying DVD which included: \nMaschwitz states that his blog \"Prolost\" is the evolving, electronic update to the book.\n\nThe writing style of the book has been called casual, conversational, and user friendly.\n\nMaschwitz stated that the conversational feel was something he felt passionately about, and spoke with the publisher ahead of time to ensure they understood the tone he was pursuing.\n\nThe cover was designed by Mimi Heft, a designer for Peachpit Press. It features images of bullet holes, and looks as if it was burned at the edge. Additionally, the entire book was printed with curved corners on the right-hand side. Of the cover, Maschwitz said, \"The tough sell was the rounded corners!\"\n\nA blurb for the book was written by film director Robert Rodriguez, who said:\n\"I'd been wanting to write a book for the new breed of digital filmmakers, but now I don't have to. My pal and fellow movie maker Stu Maschwitz has compressed years of experience into this thorough guide. Don't make a movie without reading this book!\"\"\n\n\"Microfilmmaker Magazine\" gave it an \"Award of Superiority.\"\n\n\"FX Guide\" said:\n\"While the book covers many concepts that will admittedly be familiar to artists working on visual effects or who went to film school, its such an enjoyable read of tales in the trenches that you stick around for the nuggets of knowledge.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "1597434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1597434", "title": "The Literary Encyclopedia (English)", "text": "The Literary Encyclopedia (English)\n\nThe Literary Encyclopedia is an online reference work first published in October 2000. It was founded as an innovative project designed to bring the benefits of information technology to what at the time was still a largely conservative literary field. From its inception it was developed as a not-for-profit publication aimed to ensure that those who contribute to it are properly rewarded for the time and knowledge they invest - as such, its authors and editors are also shareholders in the Company.\n\n\"The Literary Encyclopedia\" offers both freely available content and content and services for subscribers (individual and institutional, consisting mainly of higher education institutions and higher level secondary schools). Articles are solicited by invitation from specialist scholars, then refereed and approved by subject editors , which makes the \"LE\" both authoritative and reliable. It contains general profiles of literary writers, but also of major cultural, historical and scientific figures; articles on individual works of literature from all over the world (often containing succinct critical commentary and sections on critical reception); entries on hundreds of literary terms, concepts and movements, as well as extended essays on topics of historical and cultural importance. \n\n\"The Literary Encyclopedia\" offers free access, upon request, to its entire database to all educational institutions in countries where the GDP is below the world average. Librarians or teachers at such institutions can view the publication's Subscribe page for more details. It also offers a number of annual travel/ research grants to young and emerging scholars in its subscribing institutions, funded by royalties donated by the publication's contributors and editors.\n\nThe encyclopedia's founding editors were Dr Robert Clark (University of East Anglia), Prof. Emory Elliott (University of California at Riverside) and Prof. Janet Todd (University of Cambridge), and its current editorial board numbers over 100 distinguished scholars from higher education institutions all over the world.\n\nWritten and owned by a global network of scholars and researchers, \"The Literary Encyclopedia\" is an ongoing project. So far, it has published over 8000 articles in 16.8 million words, on a wide range of authors, works and topics in world literature, from the classical to the postcolonial. It continues to publish an average of 20-40 new articles every month, and subscribers benefit from considerable cross-referencing possibilities to its articles under the form of lists of recommended critical bibliographies, course-specific bookshelves, and clusters of related articles. \n\n"}
{"id": "26583554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26583554", "title": "The Paul Pert Screen Collection", "text": "The Paul Pert Screen Collection\n\nThe Paul Pert Screen Collection is a privately owned resource consisting of several thousand original items of printed ephemera, studio publicity and merchandise produced in connection with classic and 'cult' televisual entertainment, dating predominantly from the period now affectionately referred to - on both sides of the Atlantic - as the 'Golden Age' of television.\n\nThe collection also extends into the realms of other periods, including classic television productions of the 1970s and '80s retaining sufficient merit as to warrant inclusion, and selective areas of cinema. There is also a section of the archive dedicated to optical and screen entertainment in its earliest forms, stemming from an interest in the history and development of the moving image.\n\nThe archive is grouped into 'themed' collections, in order to focus on particular shows, films, genres, studios or actors etc. - as often required to do so - in the most comprehensive manner. Access to the collection has been principally via digital reproduction since 2003, but all objects are retained in a dedicated archive store, meaning that original items may be loaned, for example for filming or exhibition. Users range from television companies, graphic designers, documentary makers, magazine editors and companies releasing classic films and television shows on DVD and Blu-ray etc., who are looking for quality images of original press and tie-in material, and accompanying literature, for sleeve design and/or special features galleries. Items from the collection have appeared on BBC Four documentaries, and DVD releases of 'cult' and classic TV shows released by companies such as Umbrella Entertainment and Shock Records in Australia, and Network DVD in the UK. Releases include TV shows such as \"Arthur of the Britons\" and Smuggler (both starring Oliver Tobias ), \"The Adventures of Black Beauty, Catweazle, Follyfoot\", and others. Also ITC Entertainment classics such as \"The Baron, The Champions, Danger Man, Jason King, The Saint, The Zoo Gang\" etc.\n\nIn common with most libraries and archives, no rights are given or implied in respect of the material, and copyright therefore rests with original creators. The collection has an international flavour and consists of items from all over the world.\n\nProprietor of the collection, Paul Pert, has worked in the museum world for over twenty-five years. From a show-business family, he was singer/songwriter and multi-instrumentalist with several pop/rock bands in the late 1980s and early '90s and has since written articles on various aspects of British history and culture, including music, cinema, television and theatre. His brother is singer/songwriter Steve Pert, originally a member of international vocal group 'Wall Street Crash' and now a familiar face on the British Jazz and Swing circuit with bands such as 'The Vegas Giants'.\n\n"}
{"id": "48287485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48287485", "title": "The Suffolk Records Society", "text": "The Suffolk Records Society\n\nThe Suffolk Records Society is a local text publication society founded in 1957 to promote the study and preservation of Suffolk records from the Middle Ages to the present day. The society has published over 80 volumes as of 2015, divided into two book series, the \"Charters\" series for charters of Suffolk, and the \"General\" series.\n"}
{"id": "22413685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22413685", "title": "The World Factbook list of developed countries", "text": "The World Factbook list of developed countries\n\nIn an appendix to the \"CIA The World Factbook\", there is an entry identifying developed countries (DCs). This list of DCs is identical to the list in \"The World Factbook\" published as early as 1991.\n\nThe CIA notes that the DCs form\n\nThe CIA argues that this list\n\nHowever, ten new countries have joined the OECD since this list was created in the early 1990s: India (1994), the Czech Republic (1997, South Korea (1996), Hungary (1996), Poland (1996), Slovakia (2000), Chile (2010), Slovenia (2010), Israel (2010) and Estonia (2010).\n\nThe CIA argues that the countries in its list are\n\nThe CIA notes that these countries\n\nThese descriptions are based on 2010 GDP per capita figures. As of 2017, four members of the OECD have a GDP per capita of less than $15,000 in nominal terms (Poland, Hungary, Turkey and Mexico) and, as of 2017, five OPEC countries have a GDP per capita that is higher than $20,000 (Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain, UAE and Saudi Arabia).\n\nThe CIA notes that the 30 DCs are as follows:\n\nThe CIA concludes its definition with the note that this list is\n\nThis description is based on an old version of the IMF's list and also erroneously implies that Mexico is on the CIA's Developed Country (DC) list. In the same way, the new IMF's list also includes Malta, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia among \"advanced economies\".\n\n"}
{"id": "348853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=348853", "title": "Tyranny of the majority", "text": "Tyranny of the majority\n\nThe tyranny of the majority (or tyranny of the masses) is an inherent weakness of majority rule in which the majority of an electorate can and does place its own interests above, and at the expense of, those in the minority. This results in oppression of minority groups comparable to that of a tyrant or despot, argued John Stuart Mill in his 1859 book \"On Liberty\".\n\nAmerican founding father Alexander Hamilton, writing to Thomas Jefferson from the Constitutional Convention, argued the same fears regarding the use of pure direct democracy by the majority to elect a demagogue who, rather than work for the benefit of all citizens, set out to either harm those in the minority or work only for those of the upper echelon. The Electoral College mechanism present in the indirect United States presidential election system, and the phenomenon of faithless electors allowed for within it, was, in part, deliberately created as a safety measure not only to prevent such a scenario, but also to prevent the use of democracy to overthrow democracy for an authoritarian, dictatorial or other system of oppressive government. As articulated by Hamilton, one reason the Electoral College was created was so \"that the office of President will never fall to the lot of any man who is not in an eminent degree endowed with the requisite qualifications\".\n\nThe scenarios in which tyranny perception occurs are very specific, involving a sort of distortion of democracy preconditions:\n\nIn both cases, in a context of a nation, constitutional limits on the powers of a legislative body, and the introduction of a Bill of Rights have been used to counter the problem. A separation of powers (for example a legislative and executive majority actions subject to review by the judiciary) may also be implemented to prevent the problem from happening internally in a government.\n\nA term used in Classical and Hellenistic Greece for oppressive popular rule was \"ochlocracy\" (\"mob rule\"). \"Tyranny\" meant rule by one man whether undesirable or not. \n\nWhile James Madison referred to the same idea as \"the violence of majority faction\" in The Federalist Papers, for example Federalist 10, the phrase \"tyranny of the majority\" was used by John Adams in 1788. It was also used by Edmund Burke in \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\" (1790), where he said that \"The tyranny of a multitude is a multiplied tyranny.\" It was further popularised by John Stuart Mill in \"On Liberty\" (1859). \"The Federalist Papers\" and the phrase (in translation) is used at least once in the first sequel to \"Human, All Too Human\" (1879). Ayn Rand wrote that individual rights are not subject to a public vote, and that the political function of rights is precisely to protect minorities from oppression by majorities and \"the smallest minority on earth is the individual\".\n\nIn Herbert Marcuse's 1965 essay \"Repressive Tolerance\", he said \"tolerance is extended to policies, conditions, and modes of behavior which should not be tolerated because they are impeding, if not destroying, the chances of creating an existence without fear and misery\" and that \"this sort of tolerance strengthens the tyranny of the majority against which authentic liberals protested\".\n\nIn 1994, legal scholar Lani Guinier used the phrase as the title for a collection of law review articles.\n\nRegarding recent American politics (specifically initiatives), Donovan et al. argue that:\nThe notion that, in a democracy, the greatest concern is that the majority will tyrannise and exploit diverse smaller interests, has been criticised by Mancur Olson in \"The Logic of Collective Action\", who argues instead that narrow and well organised minorities are more likely to assert their interests over those of the majority. Olson argues that when the benefits of political action (e.g., lobbying) are spread over fewer agents, there is a stronger individual incentive to contribute to that political activity. Narrow groups, especially those who can reward active participation to their group goals, might therefore be able to dominate or distort political process, a process studied in public choice theory.\n\nAnti-federalists of public choice theory point out that vote trading can protect minority interests from majorities in representative democratic bodies such as legislatures. They continue that direct democracy, such as statewide propositions on ballots, does not offer such protections.\n\nThe \"no tyranny\" and \"tyranny\" situations can be characterizated in any simple democratic decision-making context, as a deliberative \"assembly\".\n\nHerbert Spencer, in \"The Right to Ignore the State\" (1851), pointed the problem with the following example:\nSuppose a deliberative assembly of a building\ncondominium with 13 voters, deciding, with majority rule, about \"\"X\" or \"Y\"\",\n\nSuppose that the final result is \"8 votes for \"X\" and 5 votes for \"Y\"\", so 8, as a majority, blue wins. As collectively (13 voters) the decision is legitimate.\n\nIt is a centralized decision about all common use rooms, \"one color for all rooms\", and it is also legitimate. Voters have some arguments against \"each room with its color\", rationalizing the centralization: some say that common rooms need uniform decisions;\nsome prefer the homogeneous color style, and all other voters have no style preference;\nan economic analysis demonstrates (and all agree) that a wholesale purchase of \"one\" color paint for all rooms is better.\n\nCentralization excess is the most usual case. Suppose that each floor has some kind of local governance, so in some aspects the condominium is a \"federation of floors\". Suppose that only on the third floor the majority of residents manifested some preference to \"each floor with different color\" style, and all of the third floor residents likes the red color. The cost difference, to purchase another color for one floor, is not significant when compared with the condominium contributions.\n\nIn this conditions some tyranny perception arrives, and the subsidiarity principle can be used to contest the central decision.\n\nIn the above no-tyranny scenario, suppose no floor federation, but (only) a room with some local governance.\nSuppose that the \"gym room\" is not used by all, but there is a \"community\" of regulars, there is a grouping of voters by its activity as speed-cyclists (illustrated as spiked hair), that have the gym room key for some activities on Sundays. They are acting collectively to preserve the gym room for a local cyclists group.\n\nIn this situation the following facts hold:\n\n\nThere is no \"enforced minoritarianism\"; it seems a legitimate characterization of a relevant (and not dominant) minority. This is a \"tyranny of the majority\" situation because:\n\nIn this situation, even with no formal federation structure, the minority and a potential local governance emerged: the tyranny perception arrives with it.\n\nSecession of the Confederate States of America from the United States was anchored by a version of subsidiarity, found within the doctrines of John C. Calhoun. Antebellum South Carolina utilized Calhoun's doctrines in the Old South as public policy, adopted from his theory of concurrent majority. This \"localism\" strategy was presented as a mechanism to circumvent Calhoun's perceived tyranny of the majority in the United States. Each state presumptively held the Sovereign power to block federal laws that infringed upon states' rights, autonomously. Calhoun's policies directly influenced Southern public policy regarding slavery, and undermined the Supremacy Clause power granted to the federal government. The subsequent creation of the Confederate States of America catalyzed the American Civil War.\n\n19th century concurrent majority theories held logical counterbalances to standard tyranny of the majority harms originating from Antiquity and onward. Essentially, illegitimate or temporary coalitions that held majority volume could disproportionately outweigh and hurt any significant minority, by nature and sheer volume. Calhoun's contemporary doctrine was presented as one of limitation within American democracy to prevent traditional tyranny, whether actual or imagined.\n\n"}
