{"id": "53427092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53427092", "title": "Ada Cohen", "text": "Ada Cohen\n\nAda Cohen is Professor of Art History and Israel Evans Professor in Oratory and Belles Lettres at Dartmouth College. Her work focuses on ancient Greek art, particularly imagery of Alexander the Great. From 1990-1991, she was a member of the Columbia University Society of Fellows in the Humanities.\n\n"}
{"id": "22977165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22977165", "title": "Africa Yearbook", "text": "Africa Yearbook\n\nThe Africa Yearbook is an annual publication devoted to politics, economy and society south of the Sahara. It is the successor to the German-language \"Afrika Jahrbuch\" published by the Institut für Afrika-Kunde in Hamburg, which issued its last yearbook in 2004 (on the year 2003).\n\nThe yearbook covers major domestic political developments, the foreign policy and socio-economic trends in sub-Sahara Africa – all related to developments in one calendar year. The Africa Yearbook contains articles on all sub-Saharan states, each of the four sub-regions (West, Central, Eastern, Southern Africa) focusing on major cross-border developments and sub-regional organizations as well as one article on continental developments and one on European-African relations.\n\nWhile the articles have thorough academic quality, the Yearbook is mainly oriented to the requirements of a large range of target groups: students, politicians, diplomats, administrators, journalists, teachers, practitioners in the field of development aid as well as business people.\n\nThe Africa Yearbook received the Conover-Porter Award 2012 (best africana bibliography or reference work).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33870412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33870412", "title": "Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party – Iraq Region", "text": "Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party – Iraq Region\n\nThe Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party – Iraq Region ( \"Hizb Al-Baath Al-'Arabi Al-Ishtiraki fi Al-'Iraq\"), officially the Iraqi Regional Branch, is an Iraqi Ba'athist political party founded in 1951 by Fuad al-Rikabi. It was the Iraqi regional branch of the original Ba'ath Party before changing its allegiance to the Iraqi-dominated Ba'ath movement following the 1966 split within the original party. The party was officially banned following the American invasion of Iraq, but despite this it still continues to function.\n\nThe Iraqi Regional Branch of the Ba'ath Party was established in 1951 or 1952. Some historians claim that the Iraqi Regional Branch was established by Abd ar Rahman ad Damin and Abd al Khaliq al Khudayri in 1947 after their return from the founding congress of the Ba'ath Party held in Damascus, Syria the same year. In another version, Fuad al-Rikabi established the Iraqi Regional Branch in 1948 with Sa'dun Hamadi, a Shia Muslim, but became secretary of the Regional Command in 1952.\n\nThe Iraqi Regional Branch was Arab nationalist and vague in its socialist orientation. Al-Rikabi, expelled from the party in 1961 for being a Nasserist, was an early follower of Michel Aflaq, the founder of Ba'athism. During the party's early days, members discussed topics regarding Arab nationalism, the social inequalities that had grown out of the British \"Tribal Criminal and Civil Disputes Regulation,\" and the Iraqi Parliament's Law 28 of 1932 \"Governing the Rights and Duties of Cultivators\". By 1953, the party, led by al-Rikabi, was engaged in subversive activities against the government.\n\nThe party initially consisted of a majority of Shia Muslims, as al-Rikabi primarily recruited his friends and family, but it slowly became Sunni-dominated. The Ba'ath Party, and others of pan-Arab orientation, found it increasingly difficult to recruit Shia members within the party organisation. Most Shias saw pan-Arab as largely Sunni, since most Arabs are Sunni. As a result, more Shias joined the Iraqi Communist Party than the Ba'ath Party. In the mid-1950s, eight of 17 members of the Ba'ath leadership were Shia.\n\nAccording to Talib El-Shibib, the Ba'ath foreign minister in the Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr government, the sectarian background of the leading Ba'ath members was considered of little importance because most Ba'athists did not know each other's sectarian denominations. Between 1952 and 1963, 54% of the members of the Ba'ath Regional Command were Shia Muslims, largely because of al-Rikabi's effective recruitment drive in Shia areas. Between 1963 and 1970, after al-Rikabi's resignation, Shia representation in the Regional Command had fallen to 14 percent. However, of the three factions within the Ba'ath Party, two out of three faction leaders were Shia.\n\nBy the end of 1951, the party had at least 50 members. With the collapse of the pan-Arabist United Arab Republic (UAR), several leading Ba'ath members, including al-Rikabi, resigned from the party in protest. In 1958, the year of the 14 July Revolution that overthrew the Hashemite monarchy, the Ba'ath Party had 300 members nationwide. General Abd al-Karim Qasim, the leader of the Free Officers Movement which overthrew the king, supported joining the UAR, but changed his position when he took power. Several members of the Free Officer Movement were also members of the Ba'ath Party. The Ba'ath Party considered the President of Egypt Gamal Abdel Nasser, the leader of the pan-Arab movement, to be the leader most likely to succeed, and supported Iraq's joining the union. Of the 16 members of Qasim's cabinet, 12 were Ba'ath Party members. However, the Ba'ath Party supported Qasim on the grounds that he would join Nasser's UAR.\n\nShortly after taking power, Qasim changed his position on joining the UAR and started campaigning for the \"Iraq first policy\". To strengthen his own position within the government, Qasim created an alliance with the Iraqi Communist Party, which was opposed to the notion of pan-Arabism. The change of policy provoked several pan-Arab organisations, especially the Ba'ath Party. Later that year, the Ba'ath Party leadership was planning to assassinate Qasim and take power to continue the policy of pan-Arabism.\n\nSaddam Hussein, the Iraq region's secretary-general, was a leading member of the operation. At the time, the Ba'ath Party was more of an ideological experiment than a strong, anti-government, fighting machine. Most of its members were either educated professionals or students, and Saddam fit the bill. The choice of Hussein was, according to historian Con Coughlin, hardly surprising. Abdul Karim al-Shaikhly, the leader of the operation, asked Hussein to join it when one of team members left. The idea of assassinating Qasim may have been Nasser's and speculations exist that some participants in the operation received training in Damascus, which was then part of the UAR. However, \"no evidence has ever been produced to implicate Nasser directly in the plot.\"\n\nThe assassins planned to ambush Qasim at Al-Rashid Street on 7 October 1959. One man was to kill those sitting in the back of the car, the rest would kill those in front. During the ambush, Hussein began shooting prematurely, which disorganised the whole operation. Qasim's chauffeur was killed and Qasim was hit in the arm and shoulder. The assassins thought they had killed him and quickly retreated to their headquarters, but Qasim survived.\n\nAt the time of the attack, the Ba'ath Party had less than 1,000 members. Some of the plotters quickly left the country for Syria, where Michel Aflaq gave Hussein full party membership.The Iraqi government arrested some members of the operation and took them into custody. At the show trial, six of the defendants were sentenced to death and, for unknown reasons, the sentences were not carried out. Aflaq, the leader of the Ba'athist movement, organised the expulsion of leading Iraqi Ba'athist members, such as Fuad al-Rikabi, on the grounds that the party should not have initiated the attempt on Qasim's life. At the same time, Aflaq secured seats in the Iraqi Ba'ath leadership for his supporters, including Hussein.\n\nQasim was overthrown in the Ramadan Revolution in February 1963, which was allegedly supported by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and led on the ground by Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr. Declassified documents and the testimony of former CIA officers indicate there was no direct American involvement, although the CIA had been previously notified of an earlier Ba'athist coup plot in July 1962 by a high-ranking informant within the Party. The CIA official working with Archie Roosevelt, Jr. on a separate plan to instigate a military coup against Qasim, and who later became the head of the CIA's operations in Iraq and Syria \"from late 1968 to June 1970,\" has \"denied any involvement in the Ba'ath Party's actions,\" stating instead that the CIA's efforts against Qasim were still in the planning stages at the time. Several army units refused to support the Ba'athist coup. The fighting lasted for two days, during which 1,500–5,000 were killed. Qasim was captured and, an hour later, he was killed by firing squad. To assure the Iraqi public that Qasim was dead, the plotters broadcast a film of Qasim's corpse being mutilated.\n\nAbdul Salam Arif became the president of Iraq and Hassan al-Bakr became prime minister. Ali Salih al-Sadi, secretary-general of the Regional Command of the Iraqi Ba'ath Party, became deputy prime minister and Minister of Interiora post he lost on 11 May. Despite not being prime minister, al-Sadi had effective control over the Iraqi Ba'ath Party. Seven out of nine members supported his leadership in the party's Regional Command.\n\nAccording to Con Coughlin, in the aftermath of the coup, the National Guard initiated an \"orgy of violence\" against all communist elements and some left-wing forces. This period led to the establishment in Baghdad of several interrogation chambers. The government requisitioned several private houses and public facilities, and an entire section of Kifah Street was used by the National Guard. Many of the victims of the rout were innocent, or were victims of personal vendettas. According to Coughlin, the most notorious torture chamber was located at the \"Palace of the End,\" where the royal family was killed in 1958. Nadhim Kazzer, who became director of the Directorate of General Security, was responsible for the acts committed there. Coughlin considered this purge a forerunner for similar anti-leftist purges around the world, most notably the one in Chile during Augusto Pinochet's rule.\n\nThe party was ousted from government in November 1963, due to factionalism. The question within the Ba'ath Party was whether or not it would pursue its ideological goal of establishing a union with Syria, Egypt or both. Al-Sadi supported a union with Syria, which was ruled by the Ba'ath Party, while the more conservative military wing supported Qasim's \"Iraq first policy\". Factionalism and the ill-disciplined behaviour of the National Guard led the military wing to initiate a coup against the party's leadership. Al-Sadi was forced into exile in Spain.\n\nAl-Bakr, in an attempt to save the party, called for a meeting of the National Command of the Ba'ath Party. The meeting exacerbated the party's problems. Aflaq, who saw himself as the leader of the pan-Arab Ba'athist movement, declared his intent to take control of the Iraqi Ba'ath Party. The \"Iraq first\" wing was outraged. President Arif lost patience with the Iraqi Ba'ath Party, and the party was ousted from government on 18 November 1963. The 12 Ba'ath members of the government were forced to resign, and the National Guard was dissolved and replaced with the Republican Guard. Some authorities believe that Aflaq supported Arif's coup against the Ba'athist government in order to weaken al-Sadi's position within the party and strengthen his own.\n\nAt the time of al-Sadi's removal from the post of Interior Minister, factionalism and discontent were growing within the party. al-Sadi and Mundur al-Windawi, the leader of the Ba'ath Party's National Guard, led the civilian wing. President Arif led the military wing and Talib El-Shibib led the pro-Aflaq wing. However, a bigger schism was underway in the international Ba'athist movement. Four major factions were being created: the Old Guard led by Aflaq; a civilian alliance between the secretary-generals of the Regional Commands of Syria and Iraq, led by Hammud al-Shufi and al-Sadi respectively; the Syrian Ba'ath Military Committee, represented by Salah Jadid, Muhammad Umran, Hafez al-Assad, Salim Hatum and Amin al-Hafiz; and the Iraqi military wing, which supported Arif's presidency, represented by al-Bakr, Salih Mahdi Ammash, Tahir Yahya and Hardan Tikriti. The military wings in Syria and Iraq opposed the creation of a pan-Arab state, whereas al-Shufi and al-Sadi supported it. Aflaq officially supported it, but privately opposed it because he was afraid al-Sadi would challenge his position as secretary-general of the National Command of the Ba'ath Party, the leader of the international Ba'athist movement.\n\nBoth Syria and Iraq were under Ba'athist rule in 1963. When President Arif visited Syria on a state visit, Sami al-Jundi, a Syrian cabinet minister, proposed the creation of a bilateral union between the two countries. Both Arif and Amin al-Hafiz, President of Syria, supported the idea. al-Jundi was given the task of setting up a committee to begin establishing the union. al-Jundi selected al-Sadi as Iraq's chief representative in the committee in a bid to strengthen al-Sadi's position within the Ba'ath Party.\n\nWork on the union continued with the signing of the Military Unity Charter which established the Higher Military Council, an organ which oversaw the integration and control over the Syrian and Iraqi military. Ammash, the Iraqi Minister of Defence, became the chairman of the Higher Military Council. The unified headquarters was in Syria. The establishment of the military union became evident on 20 October 1963, when Syrian soldiers were found fighting alongside the Iraqi military in Iraqi Kurdistan. At this stage, both Iraqi and Syrian Ba'athists feared excluding Nasser from the union talks since he had a large following.\n\nThe Syrian state and its Ba'ath Party criticised the fall of al-Bakr's first government but relented when they discovered that some members of the Iraqi cabinet were Ba'ath Party members. However, the remaining Ba'athists were slowly removed from office. The Syrian Revolutionary Command Council responded by abrogating the Military Unity Charter on 26 April 1964, ending the bilateral unification process between Iraq and Syria.\n\nIn the aftermath of the coup-led against the Ba'ath Party, al-Bakr became the party's dominant driving force and was elected secretary-general of the Regional Command in 1964. Saddam Hussein received full party membership and a seat in the Regional Command of the Iraqi Ba'ath Party because he was a close protege of al-Bakr. With al-Bakr's consent, Hussein initiated a drive to improve the party's internal security. In 1964, Hussein established the Jihaz Haneen, the party's secretive security apparatus, to act as a counterweight to the military officers in the party and to weaken the military's hold on the party.\n\nIn contrast to the coup of 1963, the 1968 coup was led by civilian Ba'ath Party members. According to historian Con Coughlin, the President of Iraq Abdul Rahman Arif, who had taken over from his brother, was a weak leader. Before the coup, Hussein, through the Jihaz Haneen, contacted several military officers who either supported the Ba'ath Party or wanted to use it as a vehicle to power. Some officers, such as Hardan al-Tikriti, were already members of the party, while Abdul Razzak al-Naif, the deputy head of military intelligence, and Colonel Ibrahim Daud, the commander of the Republican Guard, were neither party members nor sympathisers.\n\nOn 16 July 1968, al-Naif and Daud were summoned to the Presidential Palace by Arif, who asked them if they knew of an imminent coup against him. Both al-Naif and Daud denied knowledge of any coup. However, when the Ba'ath Party leadership obtained this information, they quickly convened a meeting at al-Bakr's house. The coup had to be initiated as quickly as possible, even if they had to concede to give al-Naif and Daud the posts of Prime Minister and Defence Minister, respectively. Hussein said at the meeting, \"I am aware that the two officers have been imposed on us and that they want to stab the party in the back in the service of some interest or other, but we have no choice. We should collaborate with them and liquidate immediately during, or after, the revolution. And I volunteer to carry out the task\".\n\nThe 17 July Revolution was a military coup, not a popular revolt against the incumbent government. According to Coughlin, compared to the coups of 1958 and 1963, the 1968 coup was a \"relatively civil affair\". The coup begun in the early morning of 17 July, when the military and Ba'ath Party activists seized several key positions in Baghdad, such as the headquarters of the Ministry of Defence, television and radio stations and the electricity station. All the city's bridges were captured, all telephone lines were cut and at exactly 03:00, the order was given to march on the Presidential Palace. President Arif was asleep and had no control over the situation. al-Bakr masterminded the plot, but Hussein and Saleh Omar al-Ali led operations on the ground. A power struggle began between the Ba'ath Party led by al-Naif and the military led by Daud, which al-Bakr had anticipated and planned. Daud lost his ministership during an official visit to Jordan, while al-Naif was exiled after Hussein threatened him and his family with death.\n\nAt the time of the 1968 coup, only 5,000 people were members; by the late 1970s, membership had increased to 1.2 million. In 1974, the Iraqi Ba'athists formed the National Progressive Front to broaden support for the government's initiatives. Wrangling within the party continued, and the government periodically purged its dissident members, including Fuad al-Rikabi, the party's first secretary-general of the Regional Command. Emerging as the party strongman, Hussein used his growing power to push al-Bakr aside in 1979 and ruled Iraq until the 2003 Invasion of Iraq.\n\nUnder al-Bakr's tenure, Iraq experienced its most dramatic and successful period of economic growth with its citizens enjoying standards of healthcare, housing, education and earnings comparable with those of European countries. Several major infrastructures were laid down to assist the country's growth, and the Iraqi oil industry was nationalised with help from the Soviet Union. Alexei Kosygin, Chairman of the USSR Council of Ministers, signed the bilateral Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation in 1972.\n\nIn June 2003, the U.S.-led Coalition Provisional Authority banned the Ba'ath Party, and banned all members of the party's top four tiers from the new government and from public schools and colleges, a move which some criticised for blocking too many experienced people from participating in the new government. Thousands were removed from their positions, including doctors, professors, school teachers and bureaucrats. Many teachers lost their jobs, causing protests and demonstrations at schools and universities.\n\nUnder the Ba'ath Party, one could not reach high positions in the government or in schools without becoming a party member. Membership was also a prerequisite for university admission. While many Ba'athists joined for ideological reasons, many more joined as a way to improve their options. After much pressure by the U.S., the policy of de-Ba'athification was addressed by the Iraqi government in January 2008 in the highly controversial \"Accountability and Justice Act,\" which was supposed to ease the policy, but which many feared would lead to further dismissals.\n\nThe new Constitution of Iraq, approved by a referendum on 15 October 2005, reaffirmed the Ba'ath Party ban, stating that \"No entity or program, under any name, may adopt racism, terrorism, the calling of others infidels, ethnic cleansing, or incite, facilitate, glorify, promote, or justify thereto, especially the Saddamist Ba'ath in Iraq and its symbols, regardless of the name that it adopts. This may not be part of the political pluralism in Iraq.\"\n\nOn 31 December 2006, one day after of Saddam Hussein's passing for hanging, previously unknown group called the Baghdad Citizens Gathering publicly issued a statement in Amman, Jordan, at the Jordanian Regional Branch of the Ba'ath Party endorsing Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri as the new president of Iraq and the party's secretary-general following Saddam's death. The statement referred to Iraqis killed in the 1980–88 war with Iran, the 1991 Gulf War over Kuwait and the 13 years of sanctions afterwards, and went on to say, \"We vow to liberate our country from the heinous criminals, neo-Zionists and the Persians in order to restore Iraq's unity\". The party's armed wing since al-Douri's ascension is the Army of the Men of the Naqshbandi Order.\n\nAccording to Abu Muhammad, a Ba'ath Party spokesman from al-Douri's faction, on the eve of Saddam's death, \"Comrade Izzat has been leading the [Ba'ath] party's political and resistance factions since 2003, but it is a matter of protocol and internal regulation to appoint him officially as the party's secretary-general.\" Al-Douri was elected the party's secretary-general in early January.\n\nDespite al-Douri's succession, another high ranking Ba'athist, Younis al-Ahmed, called for a General Conference of the Iraqi Ba'ath party in Syria to elect a new leadership (the faction's armed wing is The Return). This move caused a significant amount of controversy within the party, with al-Douri issuing a statement criticizing Syria for what al-Douri claimed was an American-supported attempt to undermine the Iraqi Ba'ath party, although this statement was later downplayed. The conference elected al-Ahmed as secretary-general, and al-Ahmed issued an order expelling al-Douri from the party, resulting in al-Douri issuing a counter order expelling al-Ahmed and 150 other party members. These events led to the existence, in effect, of two Iraqi Ba'ath Parties: the main party led by al-Douri, and a splinter party led by al-Ahmed.\n\nal-Ahmed's Ba'ath Party is based in Syria. It is believed to contain most of the remaining leading party figures who were not arrested or executed, including Mezher Motni Awad, To'ma Di'aiyef Getan, Jabbar Haddoosh, Sajer Zubair, and Nihad alDulaimi. In contrast to al-Douri's group, al-Ahmad's faction has had success in recruiting Shi'as to the party. While al-Ahmed and the faction's senior leaders are Sunnis, there are many Shiites who are working in the organization's middle level. Upon his election as leader, an al-Ahmed's faction statement said he was \"of Shia origins and coming from Shia areas in Nineveh governorate\". In contrast to al-Ahmed, al-Douri has stuck to a more conservative policy, recruiting members from a largely Sunni-dominated areas.\n\nIt could be said that al-Ahmed has returned to the Ba'ath Party's original ideology of secular pan-Arab nationalism which, in many cases, has proven successful in Iraq's Shi'a dominated southern provinces. However, despite his attempts, al-Ahmed has failed in his goal to overthrow al-Douri. Al-Douri's faction is the largest and the most active on the Internet, and the large majority of Ba'athist websites are aligned to al-Douri. Another failure is that al-Ahmed's faction, which is based in Syria, does not have exclusive Syrian support and, considering that it is based in Syria, the party is susceptible to Syrian interference in its affairs. However, despite the differences between the al-Douri and al-Ahmed factions, both of them adhere to Ba'athist thought.\n\nOn 2 January 2012, the Organizations of Central Euphrates and the South (OCES), believed to be headed by Hamed Manfi al-Karafi, issued a statement condemning sectarianism within the party, specifically criticizing al-Douri's faction. The OCES condemned the leadership's decision of creating a primary Sunni leadership and a reserve Shiite leadership.\n\nThis decision by the al-Douri faction leadership was a response to complaints by Ba'athist organizations in Shiite-dominated areas on what they considered policy errors which led to marginalization and exclusion of Shiite members. The OCES rejected the decision, and considered them illegitimate. In its statement, the OCES stated that \"the failure to implement [its] decisions is considered a rebellion against legitimate authority [...]\" and \"a conscious and explicit threat, and an attempt to impose a bitter reality through decisions that are tainted by sectarian and regional motivations.\" In its ending remarks, the OCES statement read \"any connection or link with any member of the Iraqi branch leadership locally or abroad, while continuing organizational activities according to the Organizations of Central Euphrates and the South leadership's decisions that were reached last year based on prior understandings with the national leadership\". Despite breaking with al-Douri's faction, al-Karafi's faction has not aligned itself with either al-Ahmed's faction or Resurrection and Renewal Movement, a third Ba'athist group.\n\nal-Douri has been considered more of a symbol, but he doesn't actually hold that much power over the party. In a discussion with the American embassy in Amman, Jordan, in 2007, retired Lieutenant General Khalid al-Jibouri stated that he believed \"a powerful shadow group of personnel [was] behind him who really constitute the operational leadership of his faction\". He further noted that the party was modernizing, in the sense that it recognized it would be impossible to return to power alone, while, at the same time, it returned to its old, Ba'athist ideological roots. In another note, al-Jibouri noted that the Ba'ath Party had become a major enemy of al-Qaida in Iraq.\n\nIn the wake of Muammar Gaddafi's downfall, the new Libyan government sent documents to the Iraqi government which claimed that Ba'athists, with help from Gaddafi, were planning a coup. Because of the revelations, the Iraqi government initiated a purge of thousands of public officials. The purge triggered Sunni protests, with many calling for Sunni autonomy within Iraq. Surprisingly to outside observers, al-Douri's Ba'ath party opposed Sunni autonomy and, in a statement, referred to it as \"a dangerous plan to divide Iraq along sectarian lines.\"\n\nIn July 2012, the Ba'ath Party published a videotaped speech of al-Douri, in which he condemned the existing government and American interference in Iraq. However, in a change of tone, al-Douri stated he wished to establish good relations with the United States when the American forces had been withdrawn and when the government had been toppled. As of 2013, it has been reported that al-Douri is living in the city of Mosul, having left Syria because of the ongoing civil war. Many analysts are afraid that the Ba'ath Party has the potential power to initiate another civil war in Iraq because of al-Douri's popularity in localities with Sunni majorities.\n\nThe Regional Command (RC) () was the Iraqi Regional Branch highest decision-making organ. Throughout its history, the RC has normally had 19-21 members. When in power, the Directorate of Security Affairs was responsible for the security of the president and the senior members of the Regional Command. The Regional Congress was (in theory) the \"de jure\" decision-making organ on Iraqi regional affairs when in session, but was (in practice) a tool in control of the Regional Command.\n\nThe Ba'ath Party had its own secretariat (), through which every major decision in the country was channelled. According to Joseph Sassoon, the secretariat functioned as the \"party's board of directors,\" overseeing the running of the party branches which, in turn, controlled and collected information about civilian and military life throughout the country. The secretariat had the power to propose marriages and, in certain cases, to approve and disapprove marriages for the sake of the party. At the 8th Regional Congress, the leadership laid emphasis on building \"a strong and central national authority.\" The party leadership's response to the party's apparent lack of centralisation came with a Revolutionary Command Council resolution which stated that \"all correspondence between state ministries and party organisations are to be sent through the party secretariat.\"\n\nThe head of the secretariat was the deputy director, who was the second in the order of precedence. The office of director of the secretariat was the leading organ within the body. The secretariat had 11 departments: the Military and Armaments Department, Vocational Schools Department, Courses Department, Finance Department, Organisational and Political Department, Party Affairs and Information Department, Personnel and Administrative Department, Technical Department, Information and Studies Department, Legal Department and the Audit Department. The only non-department under the direct responsibility of the secretariat was the Saddam Institute for the Study of the Qur'an.\n\nThe functions and responsibilities of the secretariat were drawn up in a detailed manner. The Office of the President issued a directive to formulate its hierarchy, and the functions of the sections and departments were clearly defined. The secretariat encompassed all party branches. This system led to the bureaucratisation of the party, and decision-making was often cumbersome and inefficient. This inefficiency meant that Saddam could govern without fearing any rivals.\n\nThe Department for Organisational and Political Affairs (DOPA) was the most important department of the secretariat. It prepared material for discussion that the secretary-general (), the party's leader, personally ordered. The DOPA also was responsible for following up on political matters in party branches. One of DOPA's sections was responsible for gathering information for candidates for important positions within the party or the government. Some departments had a similar job to the DOPA section, and were responsible for admissions to the military colleges, institutions for higher education and the Saddam Institute for the Study of the Qur'an. The party sought to control these institutions so that no single opposition party could gain a foothold in them.\n\nBelow the Regional Command were the bureau structures (), which would gather all party activities in a single geographic area into the responsibility of a single unit. Until 1989, there were six bureau structures in the country: in Baghdad, Al-Forat, the centre, southern and northern Iraq, and one bureau for military affairs. By 2002, there were 17. Below the bureau structures was the branch (), which supervised the activities of the sections, divisions and cells (. Several of these organs were merged or split, and the number of branches had increased to 69 branches by 2002. The numbers of sections and divisions varied between provinces. As membership increased, new sections and divisions were established. In Maysan province, the number of sections increased from five in 1989 to 20 in 2002, each section in turn having 93 divisions. By September 2002, there existed 4,468 party offices in the country, and there were 32,000 cells.\n\nNationally, the Ba'ath Party functioned as an institution acting as the eyes and ears of the government. During its rule, the party gained influence over the military, the government bureaucracy, labour, professional unions and, not least, the building of the cult of personality of Saddam. From the 1990s until the fall of the Ba'ath Party in 2003, it became involved in the handling of food distribution, the pursuing and apprehension of military deserters and, by the end, it was responsible for the preparations for the 2003 invasion of Iraq. Branches and sections enjoyed powers similar to those of the police in the West. Outside of Baghdad, they were \"legally authorised to incarcerate suspects using Extrajudicial procedures\".\n\nOne of the party's most important functions was gathering information about its opponents. In Northern Iraq, the Ba'ath gathered information about the Kurdish Democratic Party by tracking their activities among the local population. They tried to recruit members from Kurd-dominated areas through supplying food or a literacy campaign. During the drive to Arabise Kurdistan, the party resettled several hundred loyal party officials there to strengthen the party in the area. Kurds who had moved from Kurdistan would, in most instances, not be allowed back unless they were loyal Ba'ath Party members. The Military and Armament Department was responsible for coordinating the distribution of arms to party officials.\n\nThe Ba'ath Party instilled party discipline in its members. According to a statement in the Revolutionary Command Council (RCC), \"Party members are expected to inspire others by their exemplary behavior, sense of discipline, political consciousness, and willingness to sacrifice themselves in the interests of the Party and state.\" Saddam was a great believer in discipline, and believed that lack of discipline and organisation were behind any failure. In accordance with this view, the party issued a myriad of rules and regulations to combat laziness, corruption and abuses of power. Members found breaching the party code were either demoted or expelled from the party.\n\nThe Ba'ath Party was supported financially by the RCC, the highest executive and legislative body of government. Members were required to pays fees commensurate with their ranks. For instance, a supporting member would pay 25 Iraqi dinar for membership, while a branch member would pay 3,000 Iraqi dinars. Fees were important in the party's balance sheet. The central party leadership often emphasised the importance of members' financial abilities. The leadership encouraged members to contribute more to party finances. According to Jawad Hashim, a former Minister of Planning and the RCC Economic Advisor, Saddam gave the Ba'ath Party the five percent of Iraqi oil revenues, which were previously owned by the Gulbenkin Foundation. Saddam's reasoning was that, if a counter-coup took place and the Ba'ath Party was forced from power, as had been the case in November 1963, the party needed financial security so that it could reclaim power. By Hasim's estimates, the Ba'ath Party had accumulated in external revenues by 1989.\n\nWhen the party came to power in 1968 in the 17 July Revolution, it was determined to increase party membership so that it could compete with ideological opponents such as the Iraqi Communist Party. Saddam had a clear plan, and on 25 February 1976 he said, \"It should be our ambition to make all Iraqis in the country Ba'athists in membership and belief or in the latter only.\" This is contrary to his statements in the 1990s, when increasing membership was more important than recruiting members who adhered to Ba'athist ideology.\n\nLike most parties, the Ba'ath membership was organised in a hierarchical manner. The head of a branch, division or section was the secretary-general, who was responsible to the secretariat. At the bottom was sympathiser, a member seeking to climb the party ranks with the status of active members, which could take five to 10 years. In certain provinces, \"national activity\" was the status given to the lowest level of the hierarchy. Where this level existed, it could take two to three years to climb up to the rank of sympathiser. The report to the 10th National Congress stated that \"It is not sufficient for a member just to believe in the idea of the party, but what is required is total commitment and not simply a political affiliation.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "52664537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52664537", "title": "Audiovisualogy", "text": "Audiovisualogy\n\nThe etymological meaning of the word is linked, on the one hand, with the term audiovisual, referring to the means jointly related to the view and the hearing and, on the other hand, to the suffix logy, that refers to logos, and that in Greek means \"treaty, knowledge\". Therefore, audiovisualogy must be understood as a study of the audiovisual media that, due to its broad meaning, could be related to either the cinema, the television or any other art.\n\nIt is also feasible to understand it as the means and art that combine fixed projected images (slides or digital support) in its \"montage\", accompanied by sounds of a different nature, therefore meaning a language different from the film, since it does not use the image in motion.\n\nAlthough it was known in France as diaporama (slideshow) in 1950, its current name of audiovisual art is truly accepted in many fields, such as in some institutions in the United Kingdom, like photo clubs and others with a high artistic level, as the \"Royal Photography Society\", among others.\n\nFrom this perspective, it is also possible to develop a theory about the audiovisual art, thus defining it as the language that combines still images (pictures with sound), in a montage that by its condition is displayed as in the cinema, in a room designed for that purpose.\n\nThe audiovisual art constitutes a means of expression which came before the cinema. In fact, projections of still images are really old. In 1660, Athanasius Kircher invented one of the first \"magic lanterns\" that worked as a real projector, which had a great diffusion afterwards.\n\nMoreover, from another point of view, the prehistoric man could be considered as the first audiovisual spectator of humanity, who contemplated the static skies and the landscape in amazement, along with the sounds of nature coming from the animals and the storms. The cave paintings inside the caves ended up representing the first screen of the humanity in the dark inside of a venue.\n\nMuch later, Louis Daguerre and Charles Marie Bouton were the first creators of the panoramas, i.e., large lounges with painted curtains, on which the light was projected in a zenith shape to give the illusion of reality. In 1822, the diorama, built by both of them, became the ultimate expression of the current audiovisual art, since it modified the panorama by the layout of several overlapped curtains with themes of nature, which produced a changing effect when moving from one image to another by the dissolve effect, all this accompanied by sounds with a principle of action, development and final parts.\n\nOne of the main foundations that defines this means as an art is its connection to painting. If the conditions are given like that, and the accompanying sound represents an expression which is also aesthetic, the attitude of contemplation separates the audiovisual concept from the physical world of the movement in the cinema and other means.\n\nThe attitude of contemplation of the fine arts necessarily implies a spiritualization of the emotions, where the classic spirit prevails.\n\nJean Leirens had already expressed that there are two ways to represent time. One is by representing it as it is, and the other one means exceeding it. He stated that the second way belongs precisely to the poetic creation.\n\nEugenio Montes, when writing its \"Elementos of Filmología\" [Film-making Elements], announced that the calling of the classic period consisted of the stillness, since only things that are quiet consisted of something. On the contrary, when they moved, they already seemed inconsistent to the classic period. Because of this, the ancient spirit culminates in the sculptural attitude of the best gesture, set under a kind of eternity. That is what makes the difference with the cinema, which culminates its expression in the art of movement.\n\nAnother reason that justifies the audiovisual concept as an art is the use of the music that, represented accordingly with the still images, creates a new aesthetic expression by setting a different path, perhaps fairly unexplored, further accentuating the attitude of contemplation.\n\nConsidering these principles, the audiovisual montage may refer to two aspects: the intrinsic one, which alludes to the aesthetic connection of a shot with the next one, thus obtaining different forms, such as the analogy, the contrast and others. The other aspect is the extrinsic montage, which is the method of association point between a shot and the next one and that may be, for example, by a cut or by the so-called dissolve effect or lap dissolve between a still image and the one after it.\n\nLike in the cinema, the intrinsic montage methods are very varied and represent a substantial element in the analysis of the construction of the audiovisual language.\n\nWhile the audiovisual art is always connected with a past of unfathomable character, the cinema can never be separated from the present time, because it depicts its physical representation. The few films that tend to an evocation of the still image do it only sometimes, to then return to what is their natural environment.\n\nIn the audiovisual art, the only movement expressed is the extrinsic montage of change from one shot to the next one, and while in the cinema this also happens, the internal movement of objects and characters of each one of the corresponding shots is added to its intrinsic montage, a movement that does not occur in the audiovisual art.\n\nWhile the development of the aesthetic of the movement has for the cinema its purpose as an artistic means of expression, in the audiovisual art the method is a different one, more related to the contemplation.\n\n"}
{"id": "54505702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54505702", "title": "Ba'ja", "text": "Ba'ja\n\nBa'ja () is a Neolithic village north of Petra, Jordan. Like the nearby site of Basta, the settlement was built in c. , during the PPNB (Pre-Pottery Neolithic B) period. Ba'ja lies at an altitude of around , and is only accessible with a climbing route through a narrow, steep canyon. \n\nNear the entrance to the site is Ba'ja I, an Islamic settlement with 2-3 layers of an older Nabataean settlement.\n\n"}
{"id": "41521339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41521339", "title": "Bibliography of Chicago history", "text": "Bibliography of Chicago history\n\nThis is a bibliography of selected publications on the history of Chicago. For most topics, the easiest place to start is Janice L. Reiff, et al. eds. \"The Encyclopedia of Chicago\" (2004), which has thorough coverage by leading scholars in 1120pp of text and many illustrations. It does not include biographies. It is online free.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48033811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48033811", "title": "Conservation and restoration of totem poles", "text": "Conservation and restoration of totem poles\n\nThe conservation and restoration of totem poles is a relatively new topic in the field of art conservation. Those who are custodians of totem poles include Native American communities, museums, cultural heritage centers, parks or national parks, camp grounds or those that belong to individuals. Conservation activities include the historical research and context of totem poles, studying materials and manufacture, performing assessments, documentation and treatments. This field can pertain to conservator-restorers, Native Americans, curators, collection managers, registrars, park rangers and city planners.\n\nIn the field of Conservation of Cultural Heritage, the totem pole is categorized as a wooden object. Although totem poles are generally identified as wooden objects, there are more complex ideologies associated with them. Totem poles \"are more than works of art; they embody the culture of the Native peoples of the Pacific Northwest\". Today, conservators must regard the communities from which the poles originated prior to performing any type of assessment or conservation treatment. Totem poles can pose ethical issues in the practice of conservation. These issues may be; spiritual or ceremonial that concern their original communities, or related to provenance. \"In recent years more attention has been focused on understanding the perspective of the Native American culture in regards to totem poles, especially by conservators. Instead of approaching the conservation of a totem pole with mere intellect some have turned to understanding the spiritual and ceremonial significance\".\n\n\"In anthropological terms, totem poles are visible proof of family lineages\". The Totem Pole began being collected by many anthropologists and museums in the late 1800s and early 1900s, thus removing them from their original contexts. Many totem poles originate from Alaska and Canada. Over the last decade, the care and conservation of poles has been a newly developing subject as many museums around the world now hold poles within their collections. In order for conservators to understand the care needed for poles, they must study the methods by which they have been created.\n\nTotem poles are made from Western Red Cedar and are made from one large cedar log. Poles are carved by hand, using tools such as an axe, chisels, gouges and adzes. Poles can take anywhere between 6 months up to a year to complete. The time to complete a pole can depend on the size of the pole, the amount of time spent and the experience of the carver. Totem poles can either be painted or unpainted. If painted, paints can either be manufactured or made from mineral pigments. The traditional colors used include red, black, yellow, green and blue. \"The red was obtained from hematite, the black from graphite and carbon and green/blue from various copper ores\".\n\nTotem poles can be either displayed outdoors or indoors. Agents of deterioration that can impact totem poles are direct sunlight, moisture, fire, infestation, pollutants, fluctuating temperatures, relative humidity and theft and vandalism. Outdoor poles that are exposed to agents of deterioration are affected year round by rain, pollutants, infestation and biological growth and light. The areas where totem poles originate from have a heavy annual accumulation of rainfall. \"Therefore, the major problem of outdoor totem poles is deterioration at the paint-wood surface\" When it rains, the moisture can become trapped in the space between the paint and the wood and can cause deterioration. Direct sunlight can cause paint colors to fade and patina. Fluctuating temperatures, weather and relative humidity can cause the pole to crack or check. When it rains, the pole can absorb moisture and then the pole swells. \"Because wood always remains hydroscopic: it absorbs moisture into its cell walls as relative humidity rises and releases water back into the atmosphere as relative humidity falls\". The absorption and releasing of moisture back into the atmosphere can cause the wood to shrink and swell which causes the cracking and checking of wood.\n\nBecause totem poles are created from an organic material they can be a place of habitat for many diverse species. They can become an ideal home for many insects such as wasps, bees, carpenter ants or termites. In addition, poles make great homes for birds as many nests have been found at the top of poles. Biological growth can develop on the exterior or interior of poles. \"Biological growth has contributed to structural deterioration of the wood\". Examples of biological growth can include moss, lichens, root systems and plants.\n\nOver the past decade some totem poles have been known to be stolen while on display outdoors. An 18-foot pole was stolen from a park in West Seattle, Washington by a man who had the vision of installing it in his front yard. The pole was later recovered, along with another pole that was stolen from a nearby town and erected again back in the park. In addition to being looted, poles have been vandalized. On May 17, 1977, entrance poles to the Tulalip Indian Reservation in the State of Washington were cut down with a chainsaw.\n\nPrior to performing any conservation work, a condition assessment is performed. During an assessment the conservator identifies the materials used for the object and how the object was constructed. \"In assessing the condition of a piece, it is also important to consider the factors that may have contributed to its present condition-former use, cultural modifications, previous environments, prior treatments, as well as storage and/or display conditions\". During an assessment, time \"may be spent photographing, taking condition notes, measuring cracks and probing the wood with an ice pick\".\n\nFollowing the assessment, a treatment plan is developed. The treatment plan will depend on the plan or outcome of the pole such as indoor exhibition, storage our outdoor display. \"Decisions about appropriate treatments and methods of preservation for individual artifacts therefore should be made by a conservator in consultation with experts in the culture\". Conservation goals for totem poles can include stabilization of materials such as wood, paint or loose joints, removal of biological growth, surface cleaning, application of a water or insect repellents, removal of decayed wood, stabilizing of totem at base and in some cases the removal of the totem pole. Conservators who perform treatments on a pole document any work performed via photographs or written notes. A surface cleaning is a common treatment by conservators. The surface cleaning is generally performed with a low-suction vacuum, soft brushes, mild detergent and soft sponges. Cleanings are important for removing any dirt, grime, grease, pollution or dust from the pole's surface. It is recommended by conservators to start at the top and work your way down. Scaffolding or a lift is used with taller poles.\n\nAnother treatment done by conservators is the removal of biological growth. Conservators often use scrapers such as popsicle sticks or bamboo skewers to scrape off the surface. Sometimes poles may have trees, roots or grass growing inside of them. In this situation, \"it is probably better to cut the growth off flush with the wood, since pulling out big roots can cause more damage and create empty space for water to pool\".\n\nAnother example of a treatment often performed by conservators is the consolidation of the pole's surface which can be performed in a variety of methods. In a paper presented at the 42nd annual American Institute of Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works discusses the utilization of Butvar B-98 and Paraloid B-72 as the selected adhesives for consolidating splinters and detached fragments. Another method for consolidating wood is with the use of epoxy. Epoxy is a method for adhering smaller fragments of wood or larger wood fragments such as wings, beaks or fins of animals. \"Epoxy repairs are difficult to reverse without harming the wood, and skill and experience are required to select and apply epoxies, bulking agents and tinting products\". Materials used to consolidate paint surfaces are Acryloid B-72 in acetone which is applied with a brush. Last, a necessary and common treatment is an insect treatment. A product often used by conservators for infestation is Bora-care. This product is ingested by insects and impedes their ability to digest and thus starves them to death.\n\nIf one is the custodian of a pole, it is recommended to develop a maintenance plan. It is preferable to have the maintenance performed by a professional conservator. \"The maintenance of a pole can include the removal of vegetation and an application of a water repellent. During a maintenance routine check, the stability of the base of the pole is tested. The base of the pole is checked for rot and decay and can be done with a resistograph. \"The resistograph uses a very fine drill bit 20\" long which gives graphic chart readings as it penetrates the wood\". Testing the density of the base is important to ensure the safety of the public so the pole does not fall down. In addition to checking for decay and stability, any loose fragments can be repaired or removed. Last, any type of insect or biological growth can be documented and treated. Photographs and documentation help keep track of the condition of the pole throughout the years.\n\nIt is difficult to mitigate against agents of deterioration such as rain, sunlight or fluctuating temperatures when a pole is displayed outdoors. It is important to follow a strict maintenance program to minimize future deterioration. The management of moisture is important for preservation. One method that has been used to prevent absorption of water at the end grain of the wood is through the fabrication of a custom fitting cap. Caps can be made with copper sheeting or sheet lead. One concern conservators have posed with the use of caps, is the potential of moisture getting trapped underneath. Poles that were capped in Sitka Historical Park in Sitka, Alaska \"were found in much better condition than the poles that were not capped\".\n\nIt is recommended that if poles are stored or displayed indoors, then they should have minimal exposure to direct lighting sources. Many museums install UV filters when poles are on display indoors. Other recommendations for indoor storage include a climate-controlled environment, no food or beverages in the vicinity of any poles, a 24-hour security system and having active security guards on duty. Last, museums typically have a barrier between the visitor and the object on display. Continual touching of a pole can cause irreversible damage such as the absorption of skin oil into the wood.\n\nThere have been previous cases where restoration of a totem pole takes place in lieu of the preservation of existing materials. Restoration practices can include the replacement of wood or repainting. Many cases of the repainting of poles most often occurred only when the original paint patterns were known. It is also recommended if any type of repainting or replacement of fragments of the pole is to take place, it should involve the consulting with the appropriate Native carver or carvers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10952411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10952411", "title": "Die glückliche Hand", "text": "Die glückliche Hand\n\nThe subject of the drama is influenced by personal circumstances in Schoenberg’s life. Schoenberg’s music was not as well received as it had been in previous years. Also, two years before the composition of the piece, Mathilde, Schoenberg’s wife, had an affair with the painter Richard Gerstl and although she returned to Schoenberg this had a lasting effect on their relationship.\n\n\nThe drama represents an inescapable cycle of man's plight as it starts and finishes with the male character struggling with the monster on his back. The male character sings about his love for a young woman (mime) but, despite this love, she leaves him for a well-dressed gentleman (mime). He senses that she has left him and eventually, when she returns, he forgives her and his happiness returns. Again the woman retreats. The woman is seen later with the gentleman, and the male soloist implores the women to stay with him but she escapes and kicks a rock at him. This rock turns into the monster that was originally seen on the man's back. Thus, the drama ends where it began.\n\nThe score calls for: piccolo, three flutes (3rd doubling on 2nd piccolo), three oboes, English horn, D clarinet, three clarinets (in B-flat and A), bass clarinet, three bassoons, contrabassoon, four horns, three trumpets, four trombones, bass tuba, timpani, cymbals, bass drum, snare drum, tamtam, high and low bells, triangle, xylophone, glockenspiel, metal tubes, tambourine, hammer, harp, celesta, and strings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1694288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1694288", "title": "Doc Corbin Dart", "text": "Doc Corbin Dart\n\nDoc Corbin Dart (born March 16, 1953) is an American punk rock singer. He was lead singer, founder, and lyricist of the Lansing, Michigan 1980s punk rock band the Crucifucks. As of the early 2000s, he is also known by his moniker 26.\n\nDart's unorthodox vocal stylings have been described as wailing and alarming, while others have described them favorably as heartfelt and influenced by Pete Shelley of iconic UK punk group Buzzcocks. His lyrics alternate between personal themes of abandonment and depression, and an anarchist worldview.\n\nIn 1982, The Crucifucks formed and signed to Jello Biafra's Alternative Tentacles Records. They released the self-titled \"The Crucifucks\" a year later followed up with \"Wisconsin\". In 1992, these records were re-released as a CD titled 'Our Will Be Done'.\n\nThe back cover of \"Our Will Be Done\" featured a photo of what Dart believed was a slain policeman; the photo was actually from a Philadelphia Police Department drill. Doc is perhaps best known for the 1996 lawsuit filed over the use of this photo. The Philadelphia chapter of the Fraternal Order of Police sued the Crucifucks, Alternative Tentacles, Jello Biafra, and Borders Inc. alleging libel and slander. The trial court awarded a $2.2 million default judgement which was vacated on appeal the following year. (Initially, Borders Books, which operated a Philadelphia record store that carried the album, was also a defendant in the suit.)\n\nIn 1998, The Crucifucks reformed and did a brief national tour, including a performance at Alternative Tentacles' 20th Anniversary Party. They also released their first CD in nearly a decade, called \"L.D. Eye\" with its anti-war chiller Lights Over Baghdad.\n\nDoc Dart has recorded several solo projects: \"Patricia\" (1990, Alternative Tentacles, LP/cassette only) and 'Black Tuesday' (1991, self-released, cassette only). In 2002 he started a new project called LD Eye (Alternative Tentacles) a blistering, anthemic rant that isn't afraid to slap guitar squeals and Dart's unearthly screech around seven tracks covering hard issues like the IRA, the Oklahoma City bombing, police brutality or the healing power of suicide. In 2004 he changed his name to 26 and released a solo CD, \"The Messiah\" on Madison, Wisconsin's Crustacean Records. Dart opened up for Jello Biafra on his 'I Blow Minds For A Living' Spoken Word Tour.\n\nIn 1989, Dart was a candidate for mayor of Lansing; he finished third of three in the August 8, 1989 city primary election with 5% of the vote.\n\nDart continues to be a mainstay of alternative culture in Lansing, Michigan, regularly showing up in local papers. For a long time, Dart ran a baseball card store in a small collection of shops on Michigan Avenue. These shops were located near Sparrow Hospital, where he petitioned the city to open a women's crisis center, serving as one of its original board members.\n\nCurrently residing in Okemos, Michigan, Dart created a stir with his anti-American sentiments following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Signs attached to the front of his home read, in part, \"U.S. Troops terrorize as cowards from the skies. They should be in body bags.\" He also claims to be a supporter of the Animal Liberation Front.\n\nDart is the son of Rollin Dart, former chair of Dart National Bank, cousins of the Dart Container family. Dart is a divorced father of two adult children.\n\n"}
{"id": "3853048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3853048", "title": "Economic History Society", "text": "Economic History Society\n\nThe Economic History Society (EHS) is a learned society that was established at the London School of Economics in 1926 to support the research and teaching of economic history in the United Kingdom and internationally. The society also acts as a pressure group working to influence government policy in the interests of history and economic affairs, alongside other societies and professional bodies with similar interests. In addition, the Society regularly liaises with funding bodies such as Higher Education Funding Council for England, the Arts and Humanities Research Council, and the Economic and Social Research Council.\n\nThe Economic History Society was established at a general meeting held at the London School of Economics on 14 July 1926. R. H. Tawney took the chair and, after the resolution to form the society had been carried unanimously, the meeting discussed the constitution and aims of the society and proceeded to elect its first officers, with Sir William Ashley as the first President. The publication of \"The Economic History Review\" was also discussed and Tawney and Lipson were appointed as joint editors.\n\nThe objects of the Economic History Society as stated in its Constitution, are:\n\nAlong with the Economic & Business History Society, the Business History Conference, the Cliometric Society, the EHS sponsors EH.net, which provides resources and distributes communications to scholars in economic history and related fields.\n\nThe EHS publishes a quarterly peer-reviewed journal, \"The Economic History Review\". The journal was established in 1927 and publishes scholarly research articles and book reviews in the fields of economic and social history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26017848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26017848", "title": "Eidum", "text": "Eidum\n\nEidum or Eydum (, North Frisian: \"Eidem\") was a historic place on the German (former: Danish) island of Sylt in the North Sea. It was several hundred metres west of the present coast line of the present-day village of Westerland.\n\nAccording to historic tradition the settlement of Eidum was destroyed several times by storm tides and then rebuilt again. The All Saints Day Flood of 1436 probably wreaked so much damage and so many casualties in the village of Eidum that survivors left it and founded a new settlement about 2 kilometres further east. Their choice alighted on the higher geest ridge in the area of Tinnum. This settlement was called \"Südhedig\"; from it arose the present day village of Westerland. The later name \"Westerland\" is supposed to have derived from an old Tinnum field name, on which this new settlement stood. The land was west of the village, hence \"Wester-land\".\n\nThe church of Eidum was reportedly destroyed in a storm tide in 1300. Another church building that was located southwest of modern Westerland had to be abandoned because of migrating sand dunes in 1634 or 1635. Its successor, the third church of Eidum, was built further east in 1637. The Eidum church was mentioned for the last time in the \"Dankwardt Chronicle\" of 1652.\n\nAccording to an account from 1839, the last remnants of old Eidum were still visible on the seafloor in 1806 at extremely low tide.\n"}
{"id": "47338598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47338598", "title": "Eric John", "text": "Eric John\n\nEric John (1922–2000) was a reader in history at the University of Manchester and a specialist in Anglo-Saxon history. He was described by James Campbell as \"one of the most distinguished and provocative of Anglo-Saxonists\" D. H. Farmer described his studies of the English Benedictine Reform, mainly in pages 154-264 of \"Orbis Britanniae\", as \"both stimulating and provocative; even those who cannot assent to all his conclusions recognise that he has brought a new dimension to the study of the reform\".\n\nHis books included:\n\nHe also contributed chapters on the later Anglo-Saxon period in \"The Anglo-Saxons\" (1982), edited by James Campbell; and \"The Social and Political Problems of the Early English Church\" in \"Anglo-Saxon History: Basic Readings\" (2000) edited by David Pelteret.\n\n\"Edward the Elder 899-924\" (2001) was dedicated as a memorial to the life and work of Eric John.\n\nEric John papers at University of Manchester Library.\n"}
{"id": "26676394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26676394", "title": "George Aaron Barton", "text": "George Aaron Barton\n\nReverend George Aaron Barton, Ph.D. (12 November 1859 – 28 June 1942) was a Canadian author, Episcopal clergyman, and professor of Semitic languages and the history of religion.\n\nBarton was born in East Farnham, Quebec, Canada. After attending Oakwood Seminary in Union Springs, New York. Barton became a minister in the Religious Society of Friends and continued his education at Haverford College, completing a M.A. in 1885. He taught in Rhode Island from 1884–1889, then earned a Ph.D. at Harvard and became a professor of Semitic languages at Bryn Mawr College in 1891.\n\nIn 1922 Barton moved to the University of Pennsylvania, where he was professor of Semitic languages and the history of religion. He retired in 1931 and held the title of professor emeritus until his death. He specialized in many subjects, particularly in Semitic languages. His many publications cover a wide range of topics in areas such as biblical studies, religion, and linguistics along with translations of Sumerian cuneiform tablets. He was fascinated by bible archeology and wrote a text book on the subject, published in 1916, along with other publications on similar subjects.\n\nBarton specialized in translations of Sumerian & Akkadiann tablets, seals and cylinders. He notably translated a set of Sumerian tablets recovered in 1896–1898 by the University of Pennsylvania's excavation at Nippur initially labelled as \"Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions\", including creation myths known as the Barton Cylinder and the Debate between sheep and grain. These were later revised by Samuel Noah Kramer.\n\nBarton died in Weston, Massachusetts.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1158106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1158106", "title": "Grumbles from the Grave", "text": "Grumbles from the Grave\n\nGrumbles from the Grave is a posthumous 1989 autobiography of science fiction author Robert A. Heinlein collated by his wife Virginia Heinlein from his notes and writings.\n\nThe work is the closest that Heinlein, an ex-naval officer and prominent science fiction writer, came to writing an autobiography. The book contains a wide range of correspondence, notes and memoirs edited by Heinlein's wife Virginia, and was published a year and a half after his death.\n\n\"Grumbles from the Grave\" provides insight into Heinlein's writing process (and the editorial/publishing process with which he was often at odds). In addition, it contains evidence of his philosophy as applied to his life and personal opinions. Beginning with a short biography of Robert by Virginia, the bulk of the book consists of excerpts of correspondence from the period from 1939 to 1970, from when he began writing science fiction until the onset of his first major illness. There is considerable information provided into how the 13-year gestation of Heinlein's novel \"Stranger in a Strange Land\" evolved. Additionally there is the original postlude to \"Podkayne of Mars\" and a discussion of cuts made to his novel, \"Red Planet\".\n\nFrederik Pohl has complained \"Robert had talked about allowing posthumous publication of his real feelings about a lot of things that he didn’t feel comfortable to talk about while he was alive, and indicated that some of his private letters would be a source for the book. Then some posthumous book with that title did come out, and it was a great disappointment. Someone — it could have been only [Virginia Heinlein] — had washed his face and combed his hair and turned whatever it was that Robert might have wanted to say into the equivalent of thank-you notes for a respectable English tea. I know that Robert wrote some much more raunchy letters than any of those, because I myself got one or two. But all the raunch has been edited out. What’s left is actually rather boring and does a great disservice to the real Heinlein, whose physical person may have been embodied as a conventional hard-right conservative but whose writing was — sometimes vulgarly — that of a free-thinking iconoclast\".\n\nThe book was a finalist for the 1990 Hugo Award for Best Non-Fiction Book.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1065507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1065507", "title": "Hack writer", "text": "Hack writer\n\nA hack writer is a pejorative term for a writer who is paid to write low-quality, rushed articles or books \"to order\", often with a short deadline. In a fiction-writing a hack writer is paid to quickly write sensational, \"pulp\" fiction such as \"true crime\" novels or \"bodice ripping\" paperbacks. In journalism, a hack writer is deemed to operate as a \"mercenary\" or \"pen for hire\", expressing their client's political opinions in pamphlets or newspaper articles. Hack writers are usually paid by the number of words in their book or article; as a result, hack writing has a reputation for quantity taking precedence over quality.\n\nThe term \"hack writer\" was first used in the 18th century, \"when publishing was establishing itself as a business employing writers who could produce to order.\" The derivation of the term \"hack\" was a \"shortening of hackney, which described a horse that was easy to ride and available for hire.\" In 1728, Alexander Pope wrote \"The Dunciad\", which was a satire of \"the Grub-street Race\" of commercial writers who worked in Grub Street, a London district that was home to a bohemian counterculture of impoverished writers and poets. In the late 19th century, Anthony Trollope's novel \"The Way We Live Now\" (1875) depicts a female hack writer whose career was built on social connections rather than writing skill.\n\nMany authors who would later become famous worked as low-paid hack writers early in their careers, or during a downturn in their fortunes. As a young man, Anton Chekhov had to support his family by writing short newspaper articles; Arthur Koestler penned a dubious \"Dictionary of Sexuality\" for the popular press; Samuel Beckett translated for the French \"Reader's Digest\"; and William Faulkner churned out Hollywood scripts.\n\nA number of films have depicted hack writers, perhaps because the way these authors are \"prostituting\" their creative talents makes them an interesting character study. In the film adaptation of Carol Reed's \"The Third Man\" (1949), author Graham Greene added a hard-drinking hack writer named Holly Martins. In Jean-Luc Godard's film \"Contempt\" (1963), a hack screenwriter is paid to doctor a script. In the film \"Adaptation\" (2002), Nicolas Cage depicts an ill-educated character named Donald Kaufman who finds he has a knack for churning out cliché-filled movie scripts.\n\nIn the US, the term \"hack\" is used as a pejorative attack, among writers, journalists, bloggers, and comedians. It is especially used for journalists that are perceived to take partisan sides. For example, if a writer criticized a Republican for a position or action but then excused a Democrat who took the same position or made the same action, that writer might be accused of being a hack for the Democrats.\n\nThe term \"hack\" has been used by some UK journalists as a form of humorous, self-deprecating self-description. The term was popularized in the UK by \"Private Eye\" magazine, which refers to male journalists as \"hacks\" and female journalists as \"hackettes.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1769737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1769737", "title": "Homer vs. Dignity", "text": "Homer vs. Dignity\n\n\"Homer vs. Dignity\" is the fifth episode of \"The Simpsons\"’ twelfth season. It first aired on the Fox network in the United States on November 26, 2000. In the episode, Mr. Burns hires a cash-strapped Homer as his \"prank monkey\", paying him to play pranks on others and humiliate himself in public.\n\nThe episode was written by Rob LaZebnik in his last writing credit for over eight years, until season 20's \"Father Knows Worst\". The episode features cultural references to \"The Magic Christian\" and \"The Birds\". This episode has met with harsh reviews and is often rated high on lists of \"Worst \"Simpsons\" Episodes Ever\" due to its recycling of plotlines, as well as the scene wherein Homer, dressed as a panda, is implied to be sexually assaulted by another panda at the zoo.\n\nThe family take Bart to dinner at the Singing Sirloin restaurant (as seen in \"Life on the Fast Lane\") for getting his first \"A\" on an astronomy quiz. When asked how he achieved this rarity, Bart explains that he was in Mrs. Krabappel's class trying to force a hamster and a lizard to mate, but was forced to hide in the coat closet when he saw Krabappel and Principal Skinner making out, and needing to get his mind off this, he studied a chart of the Solar System on the closet wall. The family's feeling of pride does not last, though, as a waiter tells Homer that the credit card he has attempted to use for paying the meal has been rejected. The family responds by trying to run away, but are stopped and made to sing and entertain the other customers in the restaurant to work off their debt. At the end of the night, as the family is driving home, Bart and Lisa notice that the back seats and floor of the car are missing, and Homer explains that he had to sell them for gas money (which he spent on a novelty car horn). He and Marge subsequently learn from a visit to financial planner Lindsay Naegle that the Simpsons are having severe money woes.\n\nIn the hope of sorting out these problems, Homer decides to ask his boss, Mr. Burns, for a raise. Burns, meanwhile, has decided to spend a week looking for things to amuse himself while his assistant, Smithers, is in New Mexico performing in a Malibu Stacy musical that he wrote. When Burns tries unsuccessfully to use the salad bar at the cafeteria, Homer shows him how, then sums up his courage to ask for a raise. Burns is unimpressed and, wanting a \"larf\", orders Homer to throw a pudding at Lenny with the promise of four dollars. Homer does so, amusing Burns so much that he decides to make Homer his \"Executive in Charge of Recreation\" or, in his words, his \"prank monkey\".\n\nSubsequently, Burns takes Homer around the streets of Springfield, making him perform embarrassing or cruel tasks, such as eating an original copy of \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #1 in front of Comic Book Guy and pretending to be a baby in a public toilet, and paying him for each of these tasks. Then, Burns takes him to the Springfield Zoo, where he makes him put on a panda suit and masquerade as a new female panda named \"Sim-Sim\" in the hope of shocking onlookers when they discover the disguise. It goes wrong for Homer, though, when first he is zapped by two animal handlers, before the zoo's male panda, Ping-Ping, becomes romantically interested in \"Sim-Sim\" and drags \"her\" into his cave. Finally, when Homer tries to escape, he ends up in the skunk exhibit and gets sprayed. It is then that Lisa discovers him.\n\nLisa convinces Homer to stop being a \"prank monkey\" as his dignity is more important than money. This he does, though Burns still gives him his payment for the panda task. When Homer asks Lisa what he should do with all the money he has earned, Lisa suggests donating it to needy children, so he spends it all on toys at Costington's Department Store. Mr. Costington is so impressed by this show of generosity that he suggests that Homer dress up as Santa Claus for the upcoming Thanksgiving Day parade, distributing the toys to the kids. During the parade, however, Burns shows up and tries to convince Homer, in his Santa costume, to pull a prank on the whole town. Homer flatly refuses, only to be tempted by Burns' promise of one million dollars. Santa is then seen throwing bucketfuls of fish guts into the crowd, which results in an attack by seagulls. A disappointed Lisa watches on, remarking, \"Oh, dad, you sold your soul,\" when Homer, back in his normal clothes, appears alongside her; it turns out that Burns is now wearing the Santa costume. Homer thanks Lisa for giving him \"the gift of dignity\", and the family embrace before Burns throws fish guts at them.\n\nThe episode was written by Rob LaZebnik and directed by Neil Affleck, the last episode that he directed. It is LaZebnik's first full written script with the first script being \"G-G-Ghost D-D-Dad\" from \"Treehouse of Horror XI\" and is based on \"The Magic Christian\". There was originally a sub-plot with Smithers' musical. LaZebnik brought some friends and his wife to the table read and during the third act was repeatedly ended and went badly making Larry Doyle laugh hysterically. There was another prank where Mr. Burns put a lottery ticket into a grave and everybody went digging for the lottery ticket. The episode includes a character named Rusty the Clown, a reference to Rusty Nails, the inspiration for Krusty the Clown.\n\nThere was originally going to be a running gag where Lenny keeps getting hit with random objects. There were many endings to the original script. One ending was Homer throwing pig's blood into the crowd and 50 years later showing Homer telling a group of children that this was the reason why Thanksgiving was renamed Bloodsfest. There was also another ending with gravy, but then changed to fish guts. They were also going to be hit by blood and laugh. The full version of the song \"Sold Separately\" was later released on \"The Simpsons\" soundtrack album, \"\". \"Homer vs. Dignity\" was included on The Simpsons Christmas 2 DVD along with \"Dude, Where's My Ranch?\", \"Skinner's Sense of Snow\", and \"'Tis the 15th Season\".\n\nThe episode has received negative reviews from critics. Cindy White of IGN said that while the episode is universally panned (mostly due to the scene where Homer is (implicitly) raped by a panda at the zoo and the intentional recycling of other \"Simpsons\" episode premises, such as The Simpsons having financial trouble, Mr. Burns hiring Homer to be his assistant while Smithers is on vacation, Someone dressing up as a baby, Homer dressing up as Santa Claus, and Lisa worrying over someone selling their soul), it has funny throwaway jokes and sight gags to make up for it.\n\nIn September 2009, Colin Jacobson of DVD Movie Guide gave the episode a negative review, saying \"Bad sign number one: when a series plagiarizes itself. That occurs here when Mr. Burns states \"There’s a new Mexico?\", a line that was a lot funnier...back in season five. Bad sign number two: a scene in which Homer gets raped by a panda. A couple of the pranks provide minor amusement, but overall, this is a weak episode. Judge Mac McEntire of the DVD Verdict said the episode's best moment was with Homer and the panda. Mike Scully claims that the episode was critically panned, because not many people had seen \"The Magic Christian\".\n\nIn January 2012, Johnny Dee of \"The Guardian\" wrote that many fans regard the panda rape scene as \"a low in the show's history\" and suggested the phrase \"raped by a panda\" should replace \"jumped the shark\" to imply that a popular series has declined in quality and is beyond recovery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2176803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2176803", "title": "Hudibras", "text": "Hudibras\n\nHudibras () is an English mock heroic narrative poem from the 17th century written by Samuel Butler.\n\nThe work is a satirical polemic upon Roundheads, Puritans, Presbyterians and many of the other factions involved in the English Civil War. The work was begun, according to the title page, during the civil war and published in three parts in 1663, 1664 and 1678, with the first edition encompassing all three parts in 1684. The \"Mercurius Aulicus\" (an early newspaper of the time) reported an unauthorised edition of the first part was already in print in early 1662. \n\nPublished only four years after Charles II had been restored to the throne and the Protectorate of Oliver Cromwell being completely over, the poem found an appreciative audience. The satire is not balanced as Butler was fiercely royalist and only the parliamentarian side are singled out for ridicule. Butler also uses the work to parody some of the dreadful poetry of the time.\n\nThe epic tells the story of Sir Hudibras, a knight errant who is described dramatically and with laudatory praise that is so thickly applied as to be absurd, and the conceited and arrogant person is visible beneath. He is praised for his knowledge of logic despite appearing stupid throughout, but it is his religious fervour which is mainly attacked:\n\nHis squire, Ralpho, is of a similar stamp but makes no claim to great learning, knowing all there is to know from his religion or “new-light”, as he calls it. Butler satirises the competing factions at the time of the Protectorate by the constant bickering of these two principal characters whose religious opinions should unite them.\n\nThese are fawning but barbed portraits and are thought to represent personalities of the times but the actual analogues are, now as then, debatable. \"A Key to Hudibras\" printed with one of the work's editions (1709) and ascribed to Roger L'Estrange names Sir Samuel Luke as the model for Hudibras. Certainly, the mention of Mamaluke in the poem makes this possible, although Butler suggests Hudibras is from the West Country, making Henry Rosewell a candidate. The witchfinder Matthew Hopkins, John Desborough, parliamentarian general, and William Prynne, lawyer, all make appearances, and the character of Sidrophel is variously seen as either William Lilly or Paul Neale.\n\nButler is clearly influenced by Rabelais and particularly Cervantes' \"Don Quixote\". But whereas in Cervantes, the noble knight although being mocked is supposed to draw readers' sympathies, Hudibras is offered nothing but derision.\n\nThe title comes from the name of a knight in Edmund Spenser's \"The Faerie Queene\" who is described as \"not so good of deeds as great of name\" and \"more huge in strength than wise in work\". Spenser in turn probably got the name from the legendary king of the Britons, Rud Hud Hudibras.\n\nHudibras was written in an iambic tetrameter in closed couplets, with surprising feminine rhymes. The dramatic meter portends tales of dramatic deeds, but the subject matter and the unusual rhymes undercut its importance. This verse form is now referred to as \"Hudibrastic\". Consider the following from the opening of the poem, where the English Civil War is described thus:\n\nThe work was published in three parts, each divided into three cantos with some additional heroic epistles. It is possible that a fourth part was planned, which would have given the work twelve parts in imitation of Virgil's \"Aeneid\".\n\nThe knight and his squire sally forth and come upon some people bear-baiting. After deciding that this is anti-Christian they attack the baiters and capture one after defeating the bear. The defeated group of bear-baiters then rallies and renews the attack, capturing the knight and his squire. While in the stock the pair argue on religion.\n\nThe second part describes how the knight's imprisoned condition is reported by Fame to a widow Hudibras has been wooing, who then comes to see him. With a captive audience, she complains that he does not really love her and he ends up promising to flagellate himself if she frees him. Once free he regrets his promise and debates with Ralpho how to avoid his fate, with Ralpho suggesting that oath breaking is next to saintliness:\n\nHudibras then tries to convince Ralpho of the nobility of accepting the beating in his stead but he declines the offer. They are interrupted by a skimmington, a procession where women are celebrated and men made fools. After haranguing the crowd for their lewdness, the knight is pelted with rotten eggs and chased away. \n\nHe decides to visit an astrologer, Sidrophel, to ask him how he should woo the widow but they get into an argument and after a fight the knight and squire run off in different directions believing they have killed Sidrophel.\n\nThe third part was published 14 years after the first two and is considerably different from the first parts. It picks up from where the second left off with Hudibras going to the widow's house to explain the details of the whipping he had promised to give himself but Ralpho had got there first and told her what had actually happened. Suddenly a group rushes in and gives him a beating and supposing them to be spirits from Sidrophel, rather than hired by the widow, confesses his sins and by extension the sins of the Puritans. Hudibras then visits a lawyer—the profession Butler trained in and one he is well able to satirise—who convinces him to write a letter to the widow. The poem ends with their exchange of letters in which the knight's arguments are rebuffed by the widow.\n\nBefore the visit to the lawyer there is a digression of an entire canto in which much fun is had at the events after Oliver Cromwell's death. The succession of his son Richard Cromwell and the squabbles of factions such as the Fifth Monarchists are told with no veil of fiction and no mention of Sir Hudibras.\n\n\"Hudibras\" was an extremely popular work with pirate copies and a spurious second part being issued before Butler could produce his genuine second part in 1664. It was highly praised with Voltaire in his \"Letters on the English\" saying \"I never found so much wit in one single book\". One reader though was distinctly unimpressed. On 26 December 1662 Samuel Pepys recorded in his diary that he bought \"Hudibras,\" but, despite its being extremely popular at the time, he admitted finding no humour in it and selling it the same day. Two months later he bought it again to try to find what he was missing. He still found nothing funny about it, due to his finding its treatment of Puritans too vicious and being insensitive to the humour of the rhymes.\n\nThe mock heroic epic and its jaunty verse form known as Hudibrastic became the standard of satire for some time after that with at least twenty-seven direct imitations being produced. Of the most famous was Ned Ward and his \"Hudibras Redivivus\" with Samuel Wesley father of John Wesley emulating the work.\n\nA half century after the last part was written a new edition was published in 1727, with engraved illustrations by William Hogarth, who later became one of the foremost artists of the day. The work remained popular for several centuries as a warning against the zealotry during the Civil War period of English history although it has lately gone out of fashion.\n\nIn his poem, Butler coined the phrase \"Spare the rod and spoil the child,\" probably a modification of a Biblical injunction about child-rearing given in Book of Proverbs: \"He that spareth his rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes\" (Proverbs 13:24). In the context of \"Hudibras\" the phrase is a bawdy metaphor suggesting the best way to curtail amorous passions or, through double entendre, to prevent conception:\n\nOne couplet was widely quoted through the end of the nineteenth century as an illustration of the fact that some people just want action and excitement, never mind what:\n\n"}
{"id": "9461582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9461582", "title": "Il Gobbo di Rialto", "text": "Il Gobbo di Rialto\n\nIl Gobbo di Rialto or the Hunchback of the Rialto is a granite statue of a hunchback found opposite the Church of San Giacomo di Rialto at the end of the Rialto in Venice.\n\nSculpted by Pietro da Salò in the 16th century, the statue takes the form of a crouching, naked hunchback supporting a small flight of steps. According to the writings of Stefano Magno it was unveiled on 16 November 1541 and was used as a podium for official proclamations: the statutes of Venice or the names of offenders would be proclaimed by an official standing on the block at the same time as they were read out at Pietra del Bando near Piazza San Marco. It was also used as the finishing point for a punishment for minor misdemeanours; the guilty party would be stripped naked and made to run the gauntlet of citizens lining the streets from Piazza San Marco to the Rialto, saving themselves further humiliation by kissing the statue. By the 19th century, time had taken its toll on the statue and, in 1836, it was restored with funds provided by the civic authorities. The block above the hunchback's head now bears a Latin inscription with the date of the restoration.\n\nIt is said to communicate with the Pasquino, one of the talking statues of Rome. From the early 16th century the Pasquino, a statue of a torso, was used as an agent for critical commentaries against the Pope and the authorities: satirical notes would be attached anonymously to the base of the statue purporting to come from the Pasquino himself. Other statues in Rome would be used to fulfill a similar purpose and establish a dialogue. In the 17th century the Pasquino exchanged correspondence with Il Gobbo concerning the Republic of Venice, Pope Paul V and the writings of Cardinals Baronio and Bellarmino.\n\nThe characters of Launcelot Gobbo and his father, Old Gobbo, in William Shakespeare's \"The Merchant of Venice\" may have been inspired by this traditional symbol of the Rialto.\n\n"}
{"id": "10842869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10842869", "title": "Indiana Landmarks", "text": "Indiana Landmarks\n\nIndiana Landmarks is America's largest private statewide historic preservation organization. Founded in 1960 as Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana by a volunteer group of civic and business leaders led by Indianapolis pharmaceutical executive Eli Lilly, the organization is a private non-governmental organization with nearly 6,000 members and an endowment of over $40-million. The organization simplified its name to Indiana Landmarks in 2010.\n\nIndiana Landmarks owns and restores historic buildings, buys and sells vacant and endangered property, and helps people throughout Indiana save and restore historic places through a variety of programs including grants, loans, and advocacy.\n\nIndiana Landmarks employs staff at its state headquarters in Indianapolis and in regional offices throughout the state of Indiana. Regional offices are located in South Bend, Gary, Jeffersonville, Aurora, Evansville, Cambridge City, Wabash, and Terre Haute. The organization's state headquarters are located at the former Central Avenue United Methodist Church in Indianapolis, now known as Indiana Landmarks Center. In addition to Indiana Landmarks Center, Indiana Landmarks owns and operates three historic properties as event and rental venues: the Morris-Butler House in Indianapolis, the Huddleston Farmhouse Inn Museum in Cambridge City, Indiana, and Veraestau historic site in Aurora, Indiana. Landmarks' honorary board chair is Indiana's former Chief Justice Randall T. Shepard.\n\nThe organization's first project was restoration of the 1865 Morris-Butler House in Indianapolis. Eli Lilly personally underwrote the acquisition and restoration of the house as a museum of Victorian decorative arts. Though the Morris-Butler House no longer operates as a museum, it is part of the Indiana Landmarks Center campus and functions as an event and rental facility.\n\nOne of Indiana Landmarks' largest projects was the $30-million+ restoration of the West Baden Springs Hotel's exterior and public spaces. Indiana Landmarks helped lead the effort to bring riverboat gaming to Orange County, Indiana as a way to revitalize the French Lick Resort Casino and the West Baden Springs Hotel.\n\nIn April 2010, in conjunction with the organization's 50th anniversary, Indiana Landmarks announced its name change from Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana. At the same time, it announced that medical device entrepreneur Bill Cook and his wife, Gayle pledged $17-million to renovate the former Central Avenue United Methodist Church at 12th Street and Central Avenue in the Old Northside Historic District of Indianapolis as a performance space and new headquarters for the organization, to be known as Indiana Landmarks Center.\n\nEach May (National Historic Preservation Month), Indiana Landmarks announces a list of the state's \"10 Most Endangered\" landmarks. Circumstances that land properties among the 10 Most Endangered generally involve one or more of the following factors: demolition threat, abandonment, neglectful owner, dilapidation, obsolete use, lack of money for repairs, unreasonable above-market sale price, out-of-the-way location, or encroaching sprawl. Indiana Landmarks uses the \"10 Most Endangered\" list to bring public attention to the imperiled sites and mobilize support for their preservation.\n\n2015 Ten Most Endangered list\n\n2016 Ten Most Endangered list\n\n\n2017 Ten Most Endangered list\n\n\n2018 Ten Most Endangered list\n\n\nIndiana Landmarks issues several annual awards, including:\n\n\nTogether with the Indiana Farm Bureau, Indiana Landmarks also co-sponsors the John Arnold Rural Preservation Award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51835697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51835697", "title": "Jean-Pierre Mahé", "text": "Jean-Pierre Mahé\n\nJean-Pierre Mahé (21 March 1944, Paris) is a French orientalist, philologist and historian of Caucasus, specialist of Armenian studies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43024557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43024557", "title": "Justice for Jews from Arab Countries", "text": "Justice for Jews from Arab Countries\n\nJustice for Jews from Arab Countries (JJAC) is a political advocacy organization founded in New York in 2002, which was formed by the Conference of Presidents, the World Jewish Congress, the American Sephardi Federation, and the World Organization of Jews from Arab Countries. Today, JJAC works with the American Jewish Committee, American Jewish Congress, Jewish Council for Public Affairs, the World Sephardic Congress.\n\nIts mission statement is:\n\nAccording to founder Stanley Urman in 2009, \"Perhaps our most significant accomplishment was the adoption in April 2008 by the United States Congress of Resolution 185, which granted the first-ever recognition of Jewish refugees from the Arab countries. This now requires US diplomats in all Middle East negotiations to refer to a quote of what the resolution calls \"multiple population of refugees\" with a specific injunction that hands forth any specific reference and \"any specific reference to the Palestinian refugees must be matched by an explicit reference to Jewish refugees\"... our mandate is to follow that lead. Any explicit reference to Palestinians should be followed by explicit reference to Jewish refugees.\"\n\nCritics have suggested that JJAC's resolution was \"a tactic to help the Israeli government deflect Palestinian refugee claims in any final Israeli-Palestinian peace deal, claims that include Palestinian refugees' demand for the \"right of return\" to their pre-1948 homes in Israel.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21193435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21193435", "title": "Köýtendag Nature Reserve", "text": "Köýtendag Nature Reserve\n\nKöýtendag Nature Reserve, formerly Kugitang Nature Reserve, is a nature reserve (\"zapovednik\") in the extreme east of Turkmenistan.\n\nEstablished in 1986, it is located in the Köýtendag Range of Lebap Province and covers an area of 271.4 km². The reserve is home for the rare Heptner's markhor (\"Capra falconeri heptneri\").\n\nIt also incorporates four sanctuaries:\n\n"}
{"id": "44299725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44299725", "title": "Language Management", "text": "Language Management\n\nLanguage management is a discipline that consists of satisfying the needs of people who speak multiple different languages. These may be in the same country, in companies, and in cultural or international institutions where one must use multiple languages.\n\nThere are currently about 6000 languages in the world, 85 of which are protected by sovereign states.\nThe universal declaration of UNESCO on cultural diversity in 2001 recalls the richness of global cultural heritage, which comes from its cultural diversity:\n\"This intangible cultural heritage, passed down from generation to generation, is constantly recreated by communities and groups according to their environment, their interaction with nature, and their history, and brings a feeling of identity and of continuity, thus contributing to the promotion of respect of cultural diversity and human creativity.\"\nThe declaration of Montreal in 2007 repeated this concern.\nUNESCO organized a conference on \"Multilingualism for Cultural Diversity and Participation of All in Cyberspace\" in Bamako, Mali, on May 6 and 7, 2005, in partnership with the African Academy of Languages (ACALAN) the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie (OIF), and the Government of Mali, as well as other international organizations.\nUNESCO is otherwise responsible for the introduction of the concept of intangible cultural heritage, which manages the cultural heritage in terms of its information support.\n\nFor example, text and images associated with the Louvre museum in France are part of the intangible cultural heritage, and it goes without saying that the diversity of the visitors requires the management of text in several languages.\nThis meeting aimed to prepare the second phase of the World Summit of the Society of Information (held in Tunis, Tunisia, 16 to 18 of November 2005).\nThe other part, the phenomenon of globalization produces exchanges which requires the management of different languages at the nodes of interconnection (airports, parking lots, ...).\nThe Internet, finally, produces commercial exchanges indifferent to linguistic frontiers, and virtual communities, like Wikipedia, are where the participants speaking different languages can dialog and exchange information and knowledge.\n\nInternational institutions, governments, and firms are faced with language management needs.\n\nIn international institutions, languages can have different statutes: Official language or work language.\n\nPlenty of states have multiple official languages in their territory:\n\nThis is the case:\n\nin Belgium (Dutch, French, German)\n\nin Switzerland (German, French, Italian, Romansch)\n\nin Canada (French and English)\n\nin numerous African countries, and\n\nin Luxembourg (French, German, Luxembourgish)\n\nIn France, where many regional languages exist, especially in the regions on the border (cross-border languages) and in Brittany (Breton) none of them have official status.\nTherefore, a certain number of states have put linguistic policies in place.\nOn a larger scale, the European Union has also defined a linguistic policy, which distinguishes 23 official languages.\n\nUpon entrance to school, children of diverse cultures are forced to abandon their cultural roots and their mother tongues, to the benefit of the normative language chosen by the school. Research has shown that school, by acting to transmit a country's norms, contributes to the destruction of diversity, can even create in certain children a rejection of their mother language that is shown to be the cause of their learning difficulties.\n\nMany international enterprises are bringing about, in a strategic move toward internationalization, changing the language of work in all or part of their activities. In an immense majority of cases, the chosen language is English called the 'lingua franca\" or vehicular language. The language of home (mother tongue) is keeping a definite importance in the direction of this lingua franca. A great number of documents are coming to be published in English. which can become official language in certain meetings, teleconferences, or video conferences.\n\nThis poses obvious questions of language management. How are workers educated in a new language for work in the case that English is not an official language of the country where they find themselves assigned? What is the pertinence of imposing a foreign language on workers in a company, in the measure of usage of this language as part of their competence and effect on their productivity. What is the economic equation to resolve between, on one had, the benefits (which may be more important) teased away for the internationalization and the ill-effects of this internationalization plus the level playing field of language, and unforeseen ill-effects which may well be present and the potentially high costs: cost of inefficiency, cost of translation, and cost of professional education.\n\nLanguage management in organizations has been found to have instrumental consequences as well as identity related consequences (Lauring, 2008). Instrumental benefits from language management and the use of a common organizational language could be related to easier access to documents and a generally better communication flow in the organization. However, the use of a common language can also provide a positive indication of inclusion to linguistic minorities. Thereby language management can help to reduce language based feeling of us versus them between different language communities. Some studies have also found negative consequences of using a common language (Marschan-Piekkari, Welch, & Welch, 1999). For example, using a common language may distort the normal power structure of an organization (Neeley, 2013). It has been theorized that speaking in a second language can be highly demanding for organization members cause strain on the individual (Volk, Köhler, & Pudelko, 2014). Language management has been found to work differently in face-to-face settings compared to virtual teams (Klitmøller & Lauring, 2013).\n\n"}
{"id": "36334949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36334949", "title": "Les Érinnyes", "text": "Les Érinnyes\n\nLes Érinnyes (The Erinyes) is a French language verse drama written by Leconte de Lisle and premièred at the Théâtre de l'Odéon in 1873. It is in the style of a Greek tragedy, in two acts: \"Klytaimnestra\" (Clytemnestra) and \"Orestès\" (Orestes). It was an adaptation of the first two parts of Aeschylus' \"Oresteia\" (\"Agamemnon\" and \"Libation Bearers\"). The text was printed in de Lisle's collection \"Poèmes Tragiques\".\n\nFélix-Henri Duquesnel produced a revival of the play in 1876 at the Théâtre du Gaité. He commissioned his friend Jules Massenet to write an overture, intermezzo, and incidental music (respectively a \"Prélude\", \"Entr'acte\", and two \"Mélodrames\"). The music (Opus number 10) was conducted at the première by Édouard Colonne. It was an early boost to Massenet's career. He wrote in his memoirs:\nThe well known \"Invocation'\" accompanies Electra's pouring of libations on the tomb of Agamemnon in act 2. It was published separately as the \"Élégie\" for cello and orchestra (Op.10, no.5) as well as the song \"O doux printemps d'autrefois\" and still often performed and recorded. Massenet originally wrote it as part of a competition to score the opera \"La coupe du roi de Thulé\", with libretto by Louis Gallet and Édouard Blau. Massenet's entry came second to that of Eugène Diaz.\n\n"}
{"id": "13002278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13002278", "title": "List of University of Oxford people in the law", "text": "List of University of Oxford people in the law\n\nThis is a list of University of Oxford people in the Law. Many were students at one (or more) of the colleges of the University, and others held fellowships at a college.\n\nThis list forms part of a series of lists of people associated with the University of Oxford – for other lists, please see the main article List of University of Oxford people.\nOxford has produced a large number of distinguished jurists, judges and lawyers around the world. This list includes twelve Lord Chancellors, ten Lord Chief Justices, nine UK Supreme Court Justices and twenty-two law lords; four associate justices of the US Supreme Court as well as six puisne justices of the Supreme Court of Canada and a chief justice of the now defunct Federal Court of Canada. The current Lord Chief Justice (the most senior judge in England and Wales), Lord Burnett, was educated at Oxford.\n\n\"See List of University of Oxford people in academic disciplines\"\n\nThe list of noted legal scholars includes H. L. A. Hart, Ronald Dworkin, A. V. Dicey, William Blackstone, John Gardner, Timothy Endicott, Peter Birks, John Finnis, Andrew Ashworth, Joseph Raz, Jeremy Waldron, Leslie Green, Tony Honoré, Neil MacCormick, Hugh Collins, John Eekelaar, Robert Stevens, Paul Craig, Ben McFarlane.\n\nOther distinguished practitioners who have attended Oxford include Lord Pannick QC, Geoffrey Robertson QC, Amal Clooney, Lord Faulks QC, Dinah Rose QC, Ben Emmerson QC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34258123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34258123", "title": "List of ethnic groups in the United States by household income", "text": "List of ethnic groups in the United States by household income\n\nThis is a list of median household income in the United States by race and ethnicity and Native American tribal grouping (as of 2015).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3764623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3764623", "title": "Matara, Eritrea", "text": "Matara, Eritrea\n\nMatara (Metera) is an archaeological site in Eritrea. Situated a few kilometers south of Senafe, it was a major city in the Dʿmt and Aksumite kingdoms. Since Eritrean independence, the National Museum of Eritrea has petitioned the Ethiopian government to return artifacts removed from the site. However, the efforts have thus far been rebuffed.\n\nMatara is the name of both a small village and an important archaeological site in Eritrea. The latter is located some 136 kilometers southeast of the capital Asmara, just past Senafe on the road leading south to the border with the northern Tigray Region of Ethiopia. The archaeological site already has yielded evidence of several levels of habitation, including at least two different major cities, covering more than 1000 years. The topmost layers are associated with the Aksumite Empire and date from the fourth to the eighth centuries. This city was allied with or part of the powerful trading empire centered in the capital, Aksum, to the southwest. It appears that Matara was one of a string of cities along the trade route that ran from Aksum to its port city, Adulis, whose extensive ruins, surveyed but largely excavated, are in the vicinity of Zula, southeast of Massawa on the Red Sea coast. Keskese is located north of Matara.\n\nHawulti, a pre-Aksumite or early Aksumite era obelisk, is situated here.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3516652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3516652", "title": "Multilateration", "text": "Multilateration\n\nMultilateration (MLAT) is a surveillance technique based on the measurement of the \"difference\" in distance to two stations at known locations by broadcast signals at known times. Unlike measurements of absolute distance or angle, measuring the difference in distance between two stations results in an infinite number of locations that satisfy the measurement. When these possible locations are plotted, they form a hyperbolic curve. To locate the exact location along that curve, multilateration relies on multiple measurements: a second measurement taken to a different pair of stations will produce a second curve, which intersects with the first. When the two curves are compared, a small number of possible locations are revealed, producing a \"fix\".\n\nMultilateration is a common technique in radio navigation systems, where it is known as hyperbolic navigation. These systems are relatively easy to construct as there is no need for a common clock, and the difference in the signal timing can be measured visibly using an oscilloscope. This formed the basis of a number of widely used navigation systems starting in World War II with the British Gee system and several similar systems introduced over the next few decades. The introduction of the microprocessor greatly simplified operation, greatly increasing popularity during the 1980s. The most popular hyperbolic navigation system was LORAN-C, which was used around the world until the system was shut down in 2010. Other systems continue to be used, but the widespread use of satellite navigation systems like GPS have made these systems largely redundant.\n\nMultilateration should not be confused with any of;\nAll of these systems are also commonly used with radio navigation systems.\n\nMultilateration is commonly used in civil and military applications to accurately locate an aircraft, vehicle or stationary emitter by measuring the \"time difference of arrival\" (TDOA) of a signal from the emitter at three or more synchronized receiver sites (surveillance application) or the signals from three or more synchronized emitters at one receiver location (navigation application).\n\nIf a pulse is emitted from a platform, it will generally arrive at slightly different times at two spatially separated receiver sites, the TDOA being due to the different distances of each receiver from the platform. In fact, for given locations of the two receivers, a whole set of emitter locations would give the same measurement of TDOA. Given two receiver locations and a known TDOA, the locus of possible emitter locations is one half of a two-sheeted hyperboloid.\n\nIn simple terms, with two receivers at known locations, an emitter can be located onto a hyperboloid. Note that the receivers do not need to know the absolute time at which the pulse was transmitted – only the time difference is needed.\n\nConsider now a third receiver at a third location. This would provide one extra independent TDOA measurement (there is a third TDOA, but this is dependent on the first two TDOA and does not provide extra information) and the emitter is located on the curve determined by the two intersecting hyperboloids. A fourth receiver is needed for another independent TDOA, this will give an extra hyperboloid, the intersection of the curve with this hyperboloid gives one or two solutions, the emitter is then located at one of the two solutions.\n\nWith four receivers there are 3 independent TDOA, three independent parameters are needed for a point in three dimensional space. (And for most constellations, three independent TDOA will still give two points in 3D space).\nWith additional receivers enhanced accuracy can be obtained. (Specifically for GPS the atmosphere does influence the traveling time of the signal and more satellites does give a more accurate location).\nFor an overdetermined constellation (more than 4) a least squares can be used for 'reducing' the errors. Extended Kalman filters are used for improving the individual signal timings.\nAveraging over longer times, can also improve accuracy.\n\nThe accuracy also improves if the receivers are placed in a configuration that minimizes the error of the estimate of the position.\n\nThe emitting platform may, or may not, cooperate in the multilateration surveillance processes.\n\nMultilateration can also be used by a single receiver to locate itself, by measuring signals emitted from three or more synchronized transmitters at known locations. At least three emitters are needed for two-dimensional navigation; at least four emitters are needed for three-dimensional navigation. For expository purposes, the emitters may be regarded as each broadcasting pulses at exactly the same time on separate frequencies (to avoid interference). In this situation, the receiver measures the TDOAs of the pulses, which are converted to range differences.\n\nHowever, operational systems are more complex. These methods have been implemented:\n\nThe multilateration technique is used by several navigation systems. A historic example is the British DECCA system, developed during World War II. Decca used the phase-difference of three transmitters (method (b)). LORAN-C, introduced in the late 1950s, uses method (a). A current example is the Global Positioning System, or GPS. All GPS satellites broadcast on the same carrier frequency, which is modulated by pseudorandom codes (method (c)).\n\nConsider an emitter (E in Figure 2) at an unknown location vector\n\nwhich we wish to locate. The source is within range of \"N\"+1 receivers at known locations\nThe subscript \"m\" refers to any one of the receivers:\n\nThe distance (\"R\") from the emitter to one of the receivers in terms of the coordinates is\n\nFor some solution algorithms, the math is made easier by placing the origin at one of the receivers (P), which makes its distance to the emitter\n\nLow-frequency radio waves follow the curvature of the earth rather than a straight line. In this situation, equation is not valid. LORAN-C and Omega are primary examples of systems that utilize spherical (vice slant) ranges. When a spherical model for the earth is satisfactory, the simplest expression for the central angle (sometimes termed the \"geocentric angle\") between vehicle v and station m is\nHere: latitudes are denoted by φ; longitudes are denoted by λ; and λ = λ − λ. Alternative, better numerically behaved equivalent expressions, can be found in Great-circle navigation.\n\nThe distance R from the vehicle to station m is along a great circle will then be\nHere \"R\" is the assumed radius of the earth and σ is expressed in radians.\n\nThe distance formula_6 in equation is the wave speed (formula_7) times transit time (formula_8). A TDOA multilateration system measures the time difference (formula_9) of a wavefront touching each receiver. The TDOA equation for receivers m and 0 is\n\nFigure 3a is a simulation of a pulse waveform recorded by receivers formula_10 and formula_11. The spacing between formula_12, formula_11 and formula_10 is such that the pulse takes 5 time units longer to reach formula_11 than formula_10. The units of time in Figure 3 are arbitrary. The following table gives approximate time scale units for recording different types of waves.\n\nThe red curve in Figure 3a is the cross-correlation function formula_17. The cross correlation function slides one curve in time across the other and returns a peak value when the curve shapes match. The peak at time = 5 is a measure of the time shift between the recorded waveforms, which is also the formula_18 value needed for Equation .\n\nFigure 3b is the same type of simulation for a wide-band waveform from the emitter. The time shift is 5 time units because the geometry and wave speed is the same as the Figure 3a example. Again, the peak in the cross correlation occurs at formula_19.\n\nFigure 3c is an example of a continuous, narrow-band waveform from the emitter. The cross correlation function shows an important factor when choosing the receiver geometry. There is a peak at Time = 5 plus every increment of the waveform period. To get one solution for the measured time difference, the largest space between any two receivers must be closer than one wavelength of the emitter signal. Some systems, such as the LORAN C and Decca mentioned at earlier (recall the same math works for moving receiver & multiple known transmitters), use spacing larger than 1 wavelength and include equipment, such as a Phase Detector, to count the number of cycles that pass by as the emitter moves. This only works for continuous, narrow-band waveforms because of the relation between phase (formula_20), frequency (f) and time (T)\nThe phase detector will see variations in frequency as measured phase noise, which will be an uncertainty that propagates into the calculated location. If the phase noise is large enough, the phase detector can become unstable.\n\nEquation is the hyperboloid described in the previous section, where 4 receivers (0 ≤ m ≤ 3) lead to 3 non-linear equations in 3 unknown values (x,y,z). The system must then solve for the unknown emitter location in real time. Civilian air traffic control multilateration systems use the Mode C SSR transponder return to find the altitude. Three or more receivers at known locations are used to find the other two dimensions—either (x,y) for an airport application, or latitude and longitude for larger areas.\n\nS. Bancroft first published the algebraic solution to the problem of locating a receiver using TDOA measurements involving 4 transmitters. Bancroft's algorithm reduces the problem to the solution of a quadratic equation, and yields the three Cartesian coordinates of the receiver as well as the common time of signal transmission. Other, comparable solutions and extensions were subsequently developed. The latter reference provides the solution for locating an aircraft with known altitude using TDOA measurements at 3 receivers.\n\nWhen there are more measurements equations than unknown quantities (over-determined situation), the iterative Gauss-Newton algorithm for solving Non-linear least squares(NLLS) problems is generally preferred. An over-determined situation eliminates the possibility of ambiguous and/or extraneous solutions that can occur when only the minimum required number of measurements are available. The Gauss-Newton method may also be used with the minimum number of measurements — e.g., when an ellipsoidal model for earth must be employed. Since it is iterative, the Gauss-Newton method requires an initial solution estimate (which can be generated using a spherical earth model).\n\nMultilateration systems employing spherical-range measurements utilize a combination of solution algorithms based on spherical trigonometry and the Gauss-Newton NLLS method.\n\nImproving accuracy with a large number of receivers can be a problem for devices with small embedded processors because of the time required to solve several simultaneous, non-linear equations (, & ). The TDOA problem can be turned into a system of linear equations when there are 3 or more receivers, which can reduce the computation time. Starting with equation , solve for R, square both sides, collect terms and divide all terms by formula_22:\n\\end{align} </math>\n\nRemoving the 2 R term will eliminate all the square root terms. That is done by subtracting the TDOA equation of receiver m = 1 from each of the others (2 ≤ m ≤ N)\n\n\\hline \\\\\n\n\\end{align} </math>\n\nFocus for a moment on equation . Square R, group similar terms and use equation to replace some of the terms with R.\n\nCombine equations and , and write as a set of linear equations of the unknown emitter location x,y,z\n\nUse equation to generate the four constants formula_23 from measured distances and time for each receiver 2 ≤ m ≤ N. This will be a set of N-1 inhomogeneous linear equations.\n\nThere are many robust linear algebra methods that can solve for the values of (x,y,z), such as Gaussian Elimination. Chapter 15 in Numerical Recipes describes several methods to solve linear equations and estimate the uncertainty of the resulting values.\n\nFor finding the emitter location in a two dimensional geometry, one can generally adapt the methods used for the 3-D geometry. Additionally, there are specialized algorithms for two-dimensions—notable are the methods published by Fang (for a Cartesian plane) and Razin (for spherical earth).\n\nWhen necessitated by the combination of vehicle-station distance (e.g., hundreds of miles or more) and required solution accuracy (e.g., less than 0.3% of the vehicle-stations distance), the ellipsoidal shape of the earth must be considered. This has been accomplished using the Gauss-Newton LLS method in conjunction with ellipsoid algorithms by Andoyer, Vincenty and Sodano.\n\nExamples of 2-D multilateration are short wave radio long distance communications through the Earth's atmosphere, acoustic wave propagation in the sound fixing and ranging channel of the oceans and the LORAN navigation system.\n\nFor trilateration or multilateration, calculation is done based on distances, which requires the frequency and the wave count of a received transmission. For triangulation or multiangulation, calculation is done based on angles, which requires the phases of received transmission plus the wave count.\n\nFor lateration compared to angulation, the numerical problems compare, but the technical problem is more challenging with angular measurements, as angles require two measures per position when using optical or electronic means for measuring phase differences instead of counting wave cycles.\n\nTrilateration in general is calculating with triangles of known distances/sizes, mathematically a very sound system. In a triangle, the angles can be derived if one knows the length of all sides, (see congruence), but the length of the sides cannot be derived based on all of the angles, not without knowing the length of at least one of the sides (a baseline) (see similarity).\n\nIn 3D, when four or more angles are in play, locations can be calculated from \"n\" + 1 = 4 measured angles plus one known baseline or from just \"n\" + 1 = 4 measured sides.\n\nMultilateration is, in general, far more accurate for locating an object than sparse approaches such as trilateration, where with planar problems just three distances are known and computed. Multilateration serves for several aspects:\n\nAccuracy of multilateration is a function of several variables, including:\nThe accuracy can be calculated by using the Cramér–Rao bound and taking account of the above factors in its formulation. Additionally, a configuration of the sensors that minimizes a metric obtained from the Cramér–Rao bound can be chosen so as to optimize the actual position estimation of the target in a region of interest.\n\n\nFor applications where no need for absolute coordinates determination is assessed, the implementing of a more simple solution is advantageous. Compared to multilateration as the concept of \"crisp locating\", the other option is \"fuzzy locating\", where just one distance delivers the relation between detector and detected object. This most simple approach is unilateration. However, such unilateration approach never delivers the angular position with reference to the detector. Many solutions are available today.\nSome of these vendors offer a position estimate based on combining several laterations. This approach is often not stable, when the wireless ambience is affected by metal or water masses. Other vendors offer room discrimination with a room-wise excitation, one vendor offers a position discrimination with a contiguity excitation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36880187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36880187", "title": "Mummies of Venzone", "text": "Mummies of Venzone\n\nThe mummies of Venzone are a number of mummies found in Venzone, Italy, in the 1600s. They were mummified by natural processes, and, while such mummies exist elsewhere, the cause of the Venzone mummies' preservation in particular still remains a mystery.\n\nIn 1906, \"The Literary Digest\" translated portions of an article by F. Savorgnan de Brazza, which first appeared in the French publication \"Cosmos\". His article had described the history and characteristic of these naturally-preserved bodies. The forms and features of their appearance, he describes, were entirely recognizable. The first discovered corpse had weighed a total of only 33 pounds, with the remainder of them weighing somewhere between 22 and 44 pounds.\n\nIn his own time, Mr. de Brazzo referred to the existence of a number of hypotheses regarding the cause of mummification. The most reasonable, he believed, was to attribute it to a species of fungus, \"Hypha tombicina\", whose spores were known to be prevalent in both the tombs and their wooden coffins. Even so, the theory still remained only a reasonable speculation.\n\nWhen de Brazza’s article and this subsequent translation were published, there were clearly doubts that remained, with the process unable to actually be replicated, as well as the “conditions that assure its [the fungus’] life and reproduction” still remaining unknown. Another precarious position, as \"the Literary Digest\" observes, was in knowing that the mummies would likely never increase in number. The practice of burying dead in churches was later banned, thereby preventing much further observation of the natural process.\n\nAt the time of de Brazza’s writing, the number of mummies in Venzone was numbered at 42. Following an earthquake in the area in 1976, the number has since been reduced to only 15. Their declining number, understandably, has made it rather difficult to study precisely what the conditions behind their mummification had truly been. As University of Minnesota professor Arthur C. Aufderheide recounts, while the community of Venzone may be “incredibly hospitable,” those with jurisdiction over the bodies have often refused even Aufderheide himself to collect samples for analysis. In turn, this means that only already-collected cultures can generally be used today in analyzing what conditions might have caused mummification.\n\nWhile a number of novel theories have been offered as to the cause of their preservation, there is still no conclusive opinion. De Brazza was content with attributing it to the presence of a fungus called \"Hypha tombicina\", denying that limestone – an entirely possible cause of the mummies’ characteristics - was ever present in the tombs. On the contrary, Aufderheide asserts that the mummies were indeed originally present in a tomb that contained a native limestone floor. Such a setting, he affirms, would have been entirely suitable for bringing about the very conditions that are still seen these mummies today. Curiously, Aufderheide’s own recent studies have also failed to detect the presence of anything like \"Hypha\" fungus.\n"}
{"id": "33869005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33869005", "title": "NAMM Oral History Program", "text": "NAMM Oral History Program\n\nThe NAMM Oral History Program was created and is funded by NAMM, the International Association of Music Products. The program was approved by the NAMM board of directors in the years before the association, which is known for its yearly trade shows, was ready to celebrate the 100 anniversary of the organization. The first NAMM Oral History was conducted in April 2000 with former Gibson Guitar president Ted McCarty. McCarty signed Les Paul on to Gibson in the 1950s to lend his name to the now famous Gibson Les Paul Guitar. Paul was interviewed as part of the NAMM Oral History program back in 2008.\n\nOver the years the collection sought to capture, archive and share the stories of those who have inspired people to make music! As a result, instrument creators such as Hartley Peavey and Remo Belli have been included as well as music retailers, music publishers and those who can fill in the history of the companies, products and people who shaped the industry such as musicians, composers, method book authors, factory workers and salesman of musical products.\n\nMusic industry pioneers that have been interviewed for the NAMM Oral History program include Bob Moog, Don Buchla, Henry Z. Steinway, Bob Taylor (luthier) and Ray Kurzweil.\n\nThe collection also includes music retailers and the history of such store chains as Sam Ash and Guitar Center as well as independent music stores around the world such as West Music and Newton Piano.\n\nAmong the musicians linked to the music industry and thus interviewed for this collection are those who designed an instrument, endorsed a product or wrote a method book that has inspired others to make music. These include B. B. King, Roy Clark, Joe Morello and Herbie Hancock.\n\nThe first interview to be donated to the collection was conducted in 1996 with jazzman Jonah Jones. Jones spoke of his relationship with King Musical Instruments as a product tester and endorser. He later played an F. E. Olds trumpet, which was featured on many recordings during his long career.\n\nIn the Spring of 2011 NAMM announced the completion of its 1,500th interview. Later that year Mr. and Mrs. Tom Lee of Tom Lee Music in Hong Kong were interviewed together, which was an important addition to the collection. During the NAMM Summer Show in Nashville in July 2011, music store owner George Gruhn was awarded the first NAMM Oral History Service Award for support that included arranging interviews and providing historic background. The second NAMM Oral History Service Award was presented to Hal Leonard Publishing CEO Keith Mardak for his decade long support to the program. With Mardak's help, interviews were completed with music publishers, songwriters, composers and music method book authors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53671220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53671220", "title": "Nina Felshin", "text": "Nina Felshin\n\nNina Felshin (born 1944) is an American curator, writer, art historian and activist. She edited \"But Is It Art? The Spirit of Art as Activism\" and has authored many articles and essays on art. Felshin is an independent curator and was a curator at Wesleyan University's Ezra and Cecile Zilkha Gallery in Middletown, Connecticut, The Contemporary Arts Center in Cincinnati, Ohio and The Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, DC. While at Wesleyan, she co-taught a cross-discipline course on Issues in Contemporary Art.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5560177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5560177", "title": "Normal play convention", "text": "Normal play convention\n\nA normal play convention in a game is the method of determining the winner that is generally regarded as standard. For example:\n\nIn combinatorial game theory, the normal play convention of an impartial game is that the last player able to move is the winner.\n\nBy contrast \"misère games\" involve upsetting the convention and declaring a winner the individual who would normally be considered the loser.\n"}
{"id": "29587435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29587435", "title": "Nostalgia Critic", "text": "Nostalgia Critic\n\nNostalgia Critic is an American review comedy web television series created/directed by and starring web comedian Doug Walker (born in Italy on November 17, 1981). The series initially launched on YouTube in July 3, 2007 before moving to Walker's own site That Guy with the Glasses, then to Channel Awesome. The show followed Walker as the titular Nostalgia Critic, a bitter and sarcastic critic who mostly reviews films and television shows from his childhood and recent past, usually with comically exaggerated rage. The show often alternates the Critic's angry rants and juvenile humor with legitimate analysis of the episode's subject.\n\nWalker briefly retired the series in August 14, 2012 to work on other projects, even writing the character out of existence in the Channel Awesome film \"To Boldly Flee\". However, on January 22, 2013, Walker announced the show's imminent return in a narrative video called \"The Review Must Go On\". The show subsequently returned with a more narrative and sketch-driven sixth season, beginning on February 5, 2013 with a review of \"The Odd Life of Timothy Green\".\n\nThe series was initially launched on YouTube in July 3, 2007 with a review of \"Transformers\" but episodes were frequently removed by the website following complaints of copyright infringement. In April 2008, the videos were removed from YouTube but an arrangement between the company and content host Blip in 2009 resulted in them being featured on YouTube once more.\n\nThe announcement of a spin-off, called \"The Nostalgia Chick\", was created in \"The Search for the Nostalgia Chick\" (August 10, 2008). The concept was for a female host to review female-targeted \"nostalgic\" films and television. The contest ended in a three-way tie between Lindsay Ellis (who reviewed Disney's \"Pocahontas\"), Krissy Diggs (who reviewed \"Sailor Moon\"), and Kaylyn Saucedo (who reviewed \"The Last Unicorn\"). The competition was won by Ellis, then using the name \"The Dudette\", as announced on the site, \"Nostalgia Chick Winner!\" (September 15, 2008). Diggs and Saucedo would still join That Guy with the Glasses as That Chick with the Goggles and Marzgurl respectively.\n\nOn September 14, 2012, Walker announced the retirement of \"Nostalgia Critic\" and that it would no longer be a weekly production, as he and his brother felt that they had gone as far as they could with the series. On January 22, 2013, Walker released a sketch short film titled \"The Review Must Go On\", that also announced the return of the Nostalgia Critic. On December 30, 2015, Nostalgia Critic aired its 300th episode, a review of \"\". On October 10, 2018, Nostalgia Critic aired its 400th episode, a countdown of the top 11 Stephen King movies.\n\nThe series focuses on the Nostalgia Critic. GigaOM describes it as \"high energy and shamelessly nerdy\". Reuters described him as having \"offbeat personalities\".\nThe shows mostly focus on the Critic watching a film as he makes fun of the movie's problems with recurring memes, comedic sketches and pop culture gags, such as making fun of famous actors who starred in lesser-known roles before their rise to fame. The show also features other segments, such as the \"Top 11\" lists countdowns for his favorite films, villains, or moments in television shows and \"Old vs. New\" which compares a reboot of a popular film or series to the original. Since the revival of the series in 2013, Walker occasionally produces an editorial which discusses relevant film topics; while still featuring the Critic persona, these videos are much less comedic and contain no sketches or other actors. Beginning with \"Jurassic World\" in June 23, 2015, the series also occasionally features \"clipless reviews\" of films that are still currently in theaters to avoid copyright infringement instead of stills and clips. These reviews instead feature scenes from the movies re-enacted comedically by Walker, his family and other Channel Awesome contributors.\n\nWalker describes his philosophy thus: \"[We need a critic of nostalgia] because everybody already does it. When we look at movies and shows from our youth, they're rarely as good as we remember them, and oftentimes it's quite humorous to compare what you liked then to what you like now. That's basically what the Nostalgia Critic is about, looking back at just how much nostalgia cloaked our vision in heavenly bliss and how bizarre the reality is.\" This is mostly reflected in the series, but sometimes he reviews whatever is popular at the moment.\n\n\n(Note: All of the cast members often play fictionalized versions of their real counterparts).\n\n\"Nostalgia Critic\" has received a mostly positive response with many praising the humor, characters, and Doug Walker's performance. The series eventually garnered a cult following. Greg Weisman, producer of \"Gargoyles\", stated that he enjoyed the Critic's review of it. Roger Ebert called the episode \"A Tribute to Siskel and Ebert\" \"the best, funniest video about Siskel & Ebert I've ever seen\". Walker later stated in his editorial titled \"Farewell to Roger Ebert\" that he has since had the quote framed and hung up on his wall, and in \"The Making of a Nostalgia Critic Episode\", it can be seen on his desk. Animation writer Paul Dini also thanked the Critic for his episode \"The Top 11 \"\" Episodes\". Seth Kearsley, director of \"Eight Crazy Nights\", praised the Critic's review of the movie on his Twitter account. WatchMojo.com placed the Nostalgia Critic at #2 on their Top 10 YouTube Movie Critics list. Jacob Davich, who portrayed Linus in the film, \"The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl\", highly praised the Critic's review of the film. Both Bill Farmer, the voice of Goofy, and Jason Marsden, the voice of Max, praised Channel Awesome after watching the Critic's editorial, \"Is Goofy Secretly Badass?\" Animation director Ralph Bakshi praised the review of \"Cool World\", finding it \"very funny\". On August 27, 2017, the Critic did a crossover with fellow Channel Awesome critic, Nash Bozard. For \"Here There Be Dragons\", Bozard's review series about fantasy films and adaptations, the Critic and Nash reviewed the short-lived Syfy series \"The Dresden Files\". Jim Butcher, the author who wrote the novel series on which the series was based, seemed to react positively, tweeting \"AHAHAHAHAHAHAHA ICANTSTOPLAUGHINGHAHAHAHAHAH\".\n\nThe series is unofficially translated into many languages. On YouTube, one can find versions with Italian, French, Spanish, Portuguese and Polish subtitles, as well as a version with Russian dubbing. However, of all of them, only Poland, where \"Nostalgia Critic\" is a cult series, has its own unofficial website devoted to Channel Awesome's reviewers and its YouTube channel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10535369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10535369", "title": "Ojibwe dialects", "text": "Ojibwe dialects\n\nThe Ojibwe language is spoken in a series of dialects occupying adjacent territories, forming a language complex in which mutual intelligibility between adjacent dialects may be comparatively high but declines between some non-adjacent dialects. Mutual intelligibility between some non-adjacent dialects, notably Ottawa, Severn Ojibwe, and Algonquin, is low enough that they could be considered distinct languages. There is no single dialect that is considered the most prestigious or most prominent, and no standard writing system that covers all dialects. The relative autonomy of the regional dialects of Ojibwe is associated with an absence of linguistic or political unity among Ojibwe-speaking groups.\n\nThe general name for the language in Ojibwe is , written in one common orthography as Anishinaabemowin and as ᐊᓂᔑᓈᐯᒧᐎᓐ in 'Eastern' syllabics, with local pronunciation and spelling variants, and in some cases distinctive local names for particular dialects. The dialects of Ojibwe are spoken in Canada from western Québec, through Ontario, Manitoba and parts of Saskatchewan, with outlying communities in Alberta and British Columbia, and in the United States from Michigan through Wisconsin and Minnesota, with a number of communities in North Dakota and Montana, as well as migrant groups in Kansas and Oklahoma. The dialects of Ojibwe are divided into distinctive northern and southern groups, with intervening transition dialects that have a mixture of features from the adjacent dialects.\n\nThis article lays out the general structure of Ojibwe dialectology, with links to separate articles on each dialect. The Potawatomi language is closely related to Ojibwe; information is at Ojibwe language: Relationship of Ojibwe and Potawatomi. An Ojibwe pidgin language is discussed at Ojibwe language: Broken Ogghibbeway, and the use of various dialects of Ojibwe as lingua franca is at Ojibwe language: Lingua franca. Ojibwe borrowed words are found in Menominee and Michif; for discussion see Ojibwe language: Ojibwe influence on other languages.\n\nThe recognized dialects of Ojibwe are spoken in the region surrounding the Great Lakes, in Ontario, Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan, with other groups of speakers in western Québec in the area along the Québec-Ontario border, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, and a few communities in Alberta, North Dakota, Montana, British Columbia, Oklahoma and Kansas. While there is some variation in the classification of Ojibwe dialects, at a minimum the following are recognized, proceeding west to east: Western Ojibwe (Saulteaux), Southwestern Ojibwe (Chippewa), Northwestern Ojibwe, Severn Ojibwe (Oji-Cree), Ottawa (Odawa), Eastern Ojibwe, and Algonquin. Field research conducted in the 1980s and 1990s led to the recognition of several other dialects: (a) Berens Ojibwe along the Berens River in northwestern Ontario, to be distinguished from Northwestern Ojibwe; (b) Border Lakes Ojibwe, in western Ontario in the area bounded by the borders of Ontario, Manitoba, and Minnesota; (c) North of (Lake) Superior; and (d) Nipissing. Some sources recognize a Central Ojibwe dialect, covering approximately the same territory as North of (Lake) Superior and Nipissing. In this article the analysis in which Central Ojibwe is not recognized is accepted.\nTwo analyses of the relationships between the Ojibwe dialects are in agreement on the assignment of the strongly differentiated Ottawa dialect to a separate subgroup, and the assignment of Severn Ojibwe and Algonquin to another subgroup, and differ primarily with respect to the relationships between the less strongly differentiated dialects. Rhodes and Todd recognize several different dialectal subgroupings within Ojibwe: (a) Ottawa; (b) Severn and Algonquin; (c) a third subgroup which is further divided into (i) a subgrouping of Northwestern Ojibwe and Saulteaux, and a subgrouping consisting of Eastern Ojibwe and a further subgrouping comprising Southwestern Ojibwe and Central Ojibwe (see figure, this section).\n\nValentine has proposed that Ojibwe dialects are divided into three groups: a northern tier consisting of Severn Ojibwe and Algonquin; a southern tier consisting of \"Odawa, Chippewa, Eastern Ojibwe, the Ojibwe of the Border Lakes region between Minnesota and Ontario, and Saulteaux; and third, a transitional zone between these two polar groups, in which there is a mixture of northern and southern features.\" In this article the classification proposed by Valentine is utilized for the classification and subgrouping of Ojibwe dialects.\n\nThe distinction between the northern and southern dialect groupings is argued to \"align to some extent with traditional subsistence patterns, in that the southern groups typically harvested maple sugar and wild rice, allowing for population aggregations that promoted such social institutions as medicine societies and totemic clan structures.\" Similarly, northern groups have made most extensive use of northern \"waterways that flow into James and Hudson Bays, while southern groups were situated on the Great Lakes, Huron and Superior.\"\n\nOjibwe dialects are distinguished by features of phonology, morphology, syntax, and lexicon. Some dialects, most notably Severn Ojibwe, Algonquin, and Ottawa are characterized by many distinct features; such extensive differentiation is associated with lengthy \"periods of isolation from other varieties of Ojibwe\". Dialects that are adjacent to strongly differentiated dialects may show a mixture of transitional features. For example, the Border Lakes dialect is not strongly distinguished from the adjacent Western Ojibwe (Saulteaux) and Southwestern Ojibwe (Chippewa) dialects, and is characterized by the \"grading of a few minor features.\"\n\nIn some situations there is a mismatch between speakers' self-designations and what is supported by linguistic data. For example, the communities at Golden Lake, Ontario and Maniwaki, Quebec are described by speakers at those locations as members of the Algonquin dialect, although linguistically both are distinct from the clearly Algonquin communities north of those locations, and are assigned to the Nipissing dialect.\n\nThe degree of mutually intelligibility between nonadjacent dialects of Ojibwe varies considerably; recent research has helped to show the extent of the distance between Ottawa and the maximally different Severn Ojibwe dialect spoken in northwestern Ontario. Because the dialects of Ojibwe are at least partly mutually intelligible, Ojibwe is usually considered to be a single language with a number of dialects. However, the relatively low degrees of mutual intelligibility between some nonadjacent Ojibwe dialects led to the suggestion that Ojibwe \"...could be said to consist of several languages...\".\n\nThe Northern dialects of Ojibwe are Severn Ojibwe and Algonquin; they are strongly differentiated from other dialects of Ojibwe. A set of features characterise the northern dialects, and are found to varying degrees in adjacent transition dialects.\n\nSevern Ojibwe, also called Oji-Cree or Northern Ojibwa, and Anihshininiimowin in the language itself, is spoken in northern Ontario and northern Manitoba. Although there is a significant increment of vocabulary borrowed from several Cree dialects, Severn Ojibwe is a dialect of Ojibwe. Two minor sub-dialects have been identified: Big Trout Lake, and Deer Lake, with Big Trout Lake being further subdivided into a Severn subgroup and a Winisk River subgroup. Severn Ojibwe is primarily written by its speakers using the Cree syllabary.\n\nThe Algonquin dialect of Ojibwe is spoken in communities in northwestern Quebec and eastern Ontario (to be distinguished from the name of the Algonquian language family). Algonquin is spoken along the Ottawa River valley east of the Quebec-Ontario border, centered around Lake Abitibi. Recognized Algonquin communities include: Amos (Pikogan), Cadillac, Grand Lac Victoria, Hunter's Point, Kipawa (Eagle Village), Notre Dame du Nord (Timiskaming), Rapid Lake (Barriere Lake), Rapid Sept, Lac Simon, Québec, Winneway (Long Point). The communities of Grand Lac Victoria (Kitcisakik) on Grand Lac Victoria and Lac Rapide on Cabonga Reservoir are within La Vérendrye Wildlife Reserve, a provincial park in Québec.\n\nAlgonquin is sometimes referred to as 'Northern Algonquin' to distinguish it from the southern communities at Golden Lake, Ontario and Maniwaki, Québec which have traditionally been grouped with Algonquin, but are here classified as belonging to the Nipissing dialect.\n\nAlthough speakers of Ojibwe in the community of Kitigan Zibi (also called \"River Desert\" and formerly called \"Maniwaki\") at Maniwaki, Québec self-identify as Algonquin, the language spoken there is Nipissing; Maniwaki speakers were among those who migrated from Oka, Quebec. Similarly, the nineteenth-century missionary \"Grammaire de la language algonquine\" ('Grammar of the Algonquin language') describes Nipissing speech.\n\nAlgonquin orthography is not standardized. Some older texts were written in a French-based orthography in which the acute accent is used to indicate vowel length and the use of several consonant symbols accords with their general French values. Modern Algonquin-language resources tend to use a more English-based system, in which long vowels are marked with a grave accent (or alternatively by doubling the vowel).\n\nThe Nipissing dialect term \"omàmìwininì\" 'downriver people' refers to Algonquin speakers, with the term for the language being \"omàmìwininìmowin\". The general Algonquin self-designation is \"Anicinàbe\" or orthographic equivalent \"Anishinàbe\". \n\nThere is support for a Western Algonquin subdialect, extending \"…inland from Lake Huron and east of Lake Superior…\" toward the Ontario-Québec border. Representative communities from this area include Temagami, Ontario and Biscotasing, Ontario.\n\nThe southern dialects are presented east to west.\n\nThe Ottawa dialect is spoken in southern Ontario and northern Michigan, with main communities on Manitoulin Island, Ontario; at Walpole Island, Ontario; as well as Saugeen and Cape Croker. Ottawa and the neighboring Eastern Ojibwe dialect are characterized by extensive vowel Syncope, which deletes metrically weak short vowels.\n\nThe most general term for the Ottawa dialect is \"Nishnaabemwin,\" which is also applied to Eastern Ojibwe. The term \"Daawaamwin\" '(speaking the) Ottawa language' is also used to refer specifically to Ottawa.\n\nOttawa is generally written with a version of the Double vowel writing system.\n\nThe Eastern Ojibwe dialect is spoken east of Georgian Bay, Ontario. The main Eastern Ojibwe communities are Curve Lake, Ontario and Rama, Ontario. Eastern Ojibwe and the neighboring Ottawa dialect are characterized by extensive vowel Syncope, which deletes metrically weak short vowels.\n\nThe most general term for the Eastern Ojibwe dialect is \"Nishnaabemwin,\" which is also applied to Ottawa. The term \"Jibwemwin\" '(speaking the) Ojibwe language' is not restricted to a specific dialect; a recent Eastern Ojibwe dictionary notes that \"Jibwemwin\" and \"Nishnaabemwin\" are interchangeable.\n\nEastern Ojibwe is generally written with a version of the Double vowel writing system.\n\nSouthwestern Ojibwe is spoken in Minnesota and Wisconsin. This dialect is also referred in English as \"Chippewa\". The general Ojibwe term \"Anishinaabemowin\" is applied to this dialect. Southwestern Ojibwe is most generally written using the Double vowel writing system.\n\nThere is no Ethnologue entry or ISO 639-3 code for this dialect of Ojibwe.\nBorder Lakes Ojibwe is spoken in the Lake of the Woods area of Ontario near the borders of Ontario, Minnesota, and Manitoba. Although communities within the Border Lakes area have been considered part of the Saulteaux dialect, current classification treats Border Lakes as a separate dialect in the Southern tier. Communities identified as Border Lakes include Lac La Croix, Emo (Rainy River First Nation), and Whitefish Bay, all in Ontario.\n\nSaulteaux Ojibwe (also Western Ojibwe or Plains Ojibwe) is spoken in the Canadian provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, and Alberta, with an outlying group in British Columbia. The language is referred to, as written in the local orthography, \"Anihšināpēmowin,\" \"Nahkawēwin,\" or \"Nahkawēmowin\" (as written in the local system).\n\nThe writing system commonly used for Saulteaux incorporates the Americanist phonetic symbols /š/ for and /č/ for ; marks long vowels with the macron; writes lenis consonants with voiceless symbols, and writes fortis consonants with /h/ before a lenis consonant, as in the name for the language, \"Anihšināpēmowin\".\n\nThe transition dialects are listed east to west.\n\nNipissing communities have sometimes been classified as Eastern Ojibwe, but other research notes that several features distinguish the dialect documented at \"Gitigan Zibi\" (Maniwaki) from Eastern Ojibwe material documented from the core Eastern Ojibwe communities of Curve Lake and Rama.\n\nThe Nipissing dialect of Ojibwe is spoken in the area of Lake Nipissing in Ontario. A representative community in the Nipissing dialect area is Golden Lake, although the language is moribund at that location. Although speakers of Ojibwe in the community of Kitigan Zibi (also called \"River Desert\") at Maniwaki, Québec self-identify as Algonquin, the language spoken there is Nipissing. Maniwaki speakers were among those who migrated from Oka, Quebec. Similarly, the nineteenth-century missionary \"Grammaire de la language algonquine\" ('Grammar of the Algonquin language') describes Nipissing speech.\n\nThe term \"odishkwaagamii\" 'those at the end of the lake' is attributed to Algonquin speakers as a term for Nipissing dialect speakers, with related \"odishkwaagamiimowin\" 'Nipissing language'. It is also cited from Ojibwe dialects other than Nipissing or Algonquin with the meaning 'Algonquin Indian', for example from Southwestern Ojibwe; other sources ranging from the seventeenth to nineteenth centuries cite the same form from several different Ojibwe dialects, including Ottawa.\n\nSpeakers of this dialect generally use a French-based writing system.\nThe North of Superior dialect is spoken on the north shore of Lake Superior in the area to the west and east of Lake Nipigon. Communities include (east to west) Pic Mobert, Pic Heron, Pays Plat, Long Lac, Aroland, Rocky Bay, and Lake Helen, all in Ontario.\n\nBerens River Ojibwe is spoken along the Berens River in northern Ontario. Reported communities include Pikangikum and Poplar Hill, both in Ontario.\n\nThe Northwestern dialect of Ojibwe is spoken approximately from northwest of Lake Nipigon, north of the Lake of the Woods area south of the Berens River to the Manitoba border. Communities identified as Northwestern include (east to west) Armstrong, Osnaburgh House, Cat Lake, Lac Seul, Grassy Narrows, and Red Lake.\n\nThe Central Ojibwe dialect (also known as Central Ojibwe, Ojibway) is recognized in some analyses as a dialect of Ojibwe spoken in Ontario from Lake Nipigon in the west to Lake Nipissing in the east. In the analysis accepted in this article Central Ojibwe is not recognized; it is divided into North of (Lake) Superior and Nipissing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38278941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38278941", "title": "President Lincoln's 75,000 volunteers", "text": "President Lincoln's 75,000 volunteers\n\nOn April 15, 1861, at the start of the American Civil War, the President of the United States, Abraham Lincoln, called for a 75,000-man militia to serve for three months following the bombardment and surrender of Fort Sumter. Some slave states refused to send troops against the neighboring Deep South slave states of South Carolina, Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, and Texas with the result that most such states in the Upper South of Virginia, Arkansas, North Carolina, and Tennessee also declared secession from the United States and joined the Confederate States, Missouri and Kentucky did not fully secede themselves from Union control but they were admitted by the Confederacy as the 12th and 13th states respectively while Maryland and Delaware stayed in the Union throughout the duration of the war.\n\nIn April 1861 the Regular Army of the United States of America consisted of approximately 16,000 officers and soldiers organized into ten regiments of infantry, four of artillery, two of cavalry, two of dragoons, and one of mounted rifles. These regiments were mostly posted in small forts of company-sized detachments, the majority posted West of the Mississippi River. Following the secession of seven states from December 1860 to the creation of the Confederate States of America in February 1861, many officers and soldiers resigned from the United States Army to join the Army of the Confederacy.\n\nUntil the early 20th century, the United States relied on calling out militia and volunteers rather than expanding the regular army. However, there were restrictions on the number of men and the length of time they could serve that the President of the United States, as opposed to a State Governor, could summon. Section 4 of the Militia Act of 1795 provided:\n\nOn March 2, 1799 the number of militiamen able to be called by the President of the United States for a provisional army was limited to 75,000 men. Prior to the Civil War, this limit had never been adjusted to reflect the growth in the nation's population, which increased almost sixfold from 5.3 million in 1800 to more than 31 million in 1860. During that time, there had not been a domestic insurrection in the United States even on the scale of the short-lived Whiskey Rebellion of the early 1790s, and therefore little impetus for Congress to reconsider the numerical limits to the militia that had been codified in the late eighteenth century.\n\nThe declaration by Lincoln read:\nRather than a call for 75,000 military volunteers from any American state or territory, the two proclamations called for a specific number of volunteers from each state. The Secretary of War's proclamation included slave states in the South that had not yet declared their secession, but excluded the two free states on the Pacific coast (California and Oregon). At the time, a transcontinental railroad (which would have been necessary to transport troops from nation's far western regions with any sort of ease) had not yet been built. Recently admitted Kansas was also excluded.\n\nSeveral Northern states communicated enthusiasm, with states such as Indiana offering twice as many volunteers as requested.\n\nMassachusetts volunteers reached Washington DC as early as April 19.\n\nGovernor Isham Harris of Tennessee stated in a telegram to Lincoln, \"Tennessee will furnish not a single man for the purpose of coercion, but fifty thousand if necessary for the defense of our rights and those of our Southern brothers.\"\n\nGovernor Beriah Magoffin of Kentucky declared that they would not send volunteers to a Northern army intent on subjugating their Southern brethren.\n\nGovernor John Letcher of Virginia, whose state had been requested to furnish three regiments totalling 5,340 men and officers, had stated in the past his intent for his state to remain neutral. In a letter to Lincoln, he declared that since the president had \"chosen to inaugurate civil war, he would be sent no troops from the Old Dominion.\"\n\nGovernor Henry Rector of Arkansas stated, \"The people of this Commonwealth are freemen, not slaves, and will defend to the last extremity their honor, lives, and property, against Northern mendacity and usurpation.\"\n\nIn early May, Lincoln gave a second call for an additional 42,000 men. On May 3 President Lincoln issued a further call for United States Volunteers to serve three years, with regiments to be organized by the state governments, unless sooner discharged. He increased the regular US army by 22,714 men and called for 42,034 more volunteers to enlist for three years. In July 1861, the U.S. Congress sanctioned Lincoln's acts and authorized 500,000 additional volunteers.\n"}
{"id": "37412159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37412159", "title": "Quimbaya artifacts", "text": "Quimbaya artifacts\n\nThe Quimbaya artifacts are several dozen golden objects, found in Colombia, made by the Quimbaya civilization culture, dated around 1000 CE, a few of which (the so-called Quimbaya airplanes) are supposed by ancient astronauts theorists to represent modern airplanes, and therefore to be out-of-place artifacts. The whole of the figurines, measuring 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.5 cm) each, are described in mainstream archaeology as depicting birds, lizards, amphibians and insects common in that region and period, some of them highly stylized, as in the Gold Museum, Bogotá.\n\nIn 1994, Germans Peter Belting and Conrad Lubbers created simplified radio-controlled scale models of these objects and showed that their models, which lack some convoluted features present in the real figurines, could fly.\n\n"}
{"id": "312995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312995", "title": "Reset button technique", "text": "Reset button technique\n\nThe reset button technique (based on the idea of \"status quo ante\") is a plot device that interrupts continuity in works of fiction. Simply put, use of a reset button device returns all characters and situations to the \"status quo\" they held before a major change of some sort was introduced. Typically it occurs either in the middle of a program and negates a portion of it, or it occurs at the beginning, or very end, of a program to negate all that came before it. Often used in science fiction television series, animated series, soap operas, and comic books, the device allows elaborate and dramatic changes to characters and the fictional universe that might otherwise invalidate the premise of the show with respect to future episodes or issues continuity. Writers may, for example, use the technique to allow the audience to experience the death of the lead character, which traditionally would not be possible without effectively ending the work.\n\nWhen this device is used in shows that do not use it regularly, its effective use depends on the audience being unaware of the continuity status until the moment when the intention to use the reset button technique is made clear. This requires the show to cause successful suspension of disbelief in the audience while introducing plot developments that would seriously alter the future of the show, without revealing that continuity is or will be interrupted. It is frequently employed as a plot twist that effectively undoes all the happenings of the episode. Common uses of this technique draw liberally from science fiction and metaphysical ideas, perhaps contributing to its widespread use in those genres.\n\nExamples of the reset button technique include dream sequences, alternate-history flashbacks, parallel universes, \"alternate realities\", \"alternate timelines\", daydreams, time travel, and hallucinations. In one trope that uses this technique (typically in science fiction or fantasy), a character will find himself in a situation that seems familiar, but during the episode some things seem odd. Then one or more major events happen, such as a lead character having a significantly different position or dying. By the end of the episode or story arc the character learns they have been placed in a copy of their normal surroundings, usually to try to obtain information from them, and the mastermind behind the plan made a few mistakes in fashioning the copy environment.\n\nPerhaps the most infamous example of the reset button technique is the 1986 season premiere of \"Dallas\" in which it is revealed that Bobby Ewing's death in the previous season was merely a dream in the mind of one of the characters. This was parodied in the \"Da Boom\" episode of \"Family Guy\". In comics, the Spider-Man storyline \"\" undid the marriage of Peter Parker and Mary Jane Watson, drawing criticism due to the continuity issues, with some critics even comparing it to \"Dallas\".\n\nHowever, used appropriately, it can be devastating in terms of its effect. In the last episode of \"Newhart\", the title character (played by Bob Newhart) is struck on the head, knocked unconscious, then wakes up in bed next to Emily (played by Suzanne Pleshette), who had been his wife on \"The Bob Newhart Show\". Thus the entire series of \"Newhart\" was a dream.\n\nIn many series, the reset button trope is used as a standard, and frequently explicit, plot device. \n\nImplicit usage of the technique can be seen in episodic fiction, such as when the results of episodes regularly cause what would seem to be massive changes in the status of characters and their world; however it is understood by the audience that subsequent episodes will not take into account such events. An example is \"South Park\", in which the character of Kenny dies in almost every episode in early seasons, only to reappear in future episodes without explanation.\n\n\"The Simpsons\" is one show that generally uses this technique, while occasionally introducing lasting continuity changes. Creator Matt Groening referred to this flexibility as a \"rubber band reality\".\n\nReset-button using shows sometimes, as a form of self-referential humor, point out their own use of the technique.\n\nAlluding to the trope, the CBBC television series \"Hounded\" features a \"literal\" reset button that, at the end of each episode, rewinds the entire day's events back to the beginning.\n\nIn many episodic shows sudden changes to a character's past or attributes are not actually examples of the reset button technique, but merely a lack of continuity. For instance, in early episodes of the popular Fox TV show \"House\" Dr. Wilson's character was explicitly stated to be Jewish. However, in later episodes it was implied that he was not, such as in the episode \"The Social Contract\" when House tells Dr. Taub that he cannot hope to compete at racquetball against Dr. Wilson because \"Wilson played tennis on his college team. And you are a Jew, you're not athletic.\"\nIn many adventure oriented series, the characters are defined essentially by what they do and encounter in the course of their adventures. Character development is kept to a bare minimum in favor of action and adventure. In some long-running series, characters do not appear to age, but are instead revised to fit the times. Examples of this include cartoon characters such as Scooby-Doo, series movie characters such as James Bond, and serial novel characters such as Mack Bolan and Nancy Drew.\nSimple failure to maintain continuity is not use of the reset button technique, although in some cases such a failure can be considered a reboot. For instance, when the Superman movies came out in the 1970s, the screenwriters largely ignored the decades-long comic book storyline and frequently contradicted previous \"facts\". For example, in the comic books, Krypton, Superman's home planet, had a climate similar to Earth's, but in the movie series it had an icy climate.\n\n"}
{"id": "24799527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24799527", "title": "Sherman Lee", "text": "Sherman Lee\n\nSherman Emory Lee (1918–2008) was an American academic, writer, art historian and expert on Asian art. He was Director of the Cleveland Museum of Art from 1958 to 1983.\n\nLee earned his B.A. and M.A. at American University in Washington, D.C. He was awarded his PhD at Western Reserve University in 1941.\n\nLee was \"a renowned expert on Asian art.\" According to Philippe de Montebello, Lee will be remembered for \"sensational acquisitions that transformed the Cleveland Museum of Art in all fields.\"\n\nIn 1941, Lee was named Curator of Far Eastern Art at the Detroit Institute of Arts. His museum career was interrupted by military service in World War II.\n\nHe returned to the United States in 1948. He was the Associate Director of the Seattle Art Museum and he taught at the University of Washington.\n\nIn 1952, Lee began work at the Cleveland Museum of Art as Chief Curator of Oriental Art. He was named Director in 1958, and served in this capacity until 1983.\n\nHe advised Mr. and Mrs. John D. Rockefeller on building their collection of Asian art.\n\nAfter retiring from the Cleveland Museum of Art in 1983, Lee became an adjunct professor of art history at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.\n\nLieutenant Sherman Lee was activated from the United States Naval Reserve during World War II. His naval career took a turn when he was transferred in 1946 to Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives (MFAA) in Japan. When he was discharged from the military, he continued working as a civilian in Tokyo. From 1946 to 1948, he was a civilian adviser to the staff of Gen. Douglas MacArthur (Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers, also known by the acronym SCAP) on the cataloging, preserving and protection of Japanese artworks. Among those serving with Lee at SCAP headquarters in Tokyo were Patrick Lennox Tierney and Laurence Sickman.\n\nSpeaking of his service with the Monuments Men, Lee said:\n\nWe were responsible for protection of registered cultural property ... We were responsible for national parks ... We were responsible for the encouragement of the living artists and ... the democratization of Japanese museums to see that there was evenhanded fair play.\nAccording to Philippe de Montebello, director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, Sherman Lee \"carried a lot of weight in the community of museum directors. He bought in all fields, his own particularly brilliantly, but in many different fields. He really transformed the Cleveland museum from a regional museum to a major global museum.\"\n\n\nIn a statistical overview derived from writings by and about Sherman Lee, OCLC/WorldCat encompasses roughly 100+ works in 300+ publications in 8 languages and 14,000+ library holdings.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42710329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42710329", "title": "Silla (month)", "text": "Silla (month)\n\nSillā (Nepal Bhasa: सिल्ला) is the fourth month in the Nepal Era calendar, the national lunar calendar of Nepal. The month corresponds to Magha (माघ) in the Hindu lunar calendar and February in the Gregorian calendar.\n\nSillā begins with the new moon and the full moon falls on the 15th of the lunar month. The month is divided into the bright and dark fortnights which are known as Sillā Thwa (सिल्ला थ्व) and Sillā Gā (सिल्ला गा) respectively.\n\nThe most important festivals during the month are Shree Panchami which falls on the fifth day of the bright fortnight and Maha Shivaratri (Nepal Bhasa: सिला चह्रे \"Silā Charhe\") on the 14th day of the dark fortnight. Shree Panchami is the first day of spring while Shivaratri honors the Hindu deity Shiva. On the full moon day, the month-long Swasthani sacred story reciting festival ends.\n"}
{"id": "5148043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5148043", "title": "Sitz im Leben", "text": "Sitz im Leben\n\nIn Biblical criticism, Sitz im Leben () is a German phrase roughly translating to \"setting in life\". It stands for the alleged context in which a text, or object, has been created, and its function and purpose at that time. The \"Sitz im Leben\" is also used to refer to the social, ethnic and cultural setting of a site at a particular era. When interpreting a text, object, or region, the \"Sitz im Leben\" has to be taken into consideration in order to allow a proper contextual interpretation. \n\nThe term originated with the German Protestant theologian Hermann Gunkel. The term \"Sitz im Volksleben\" (\"setting in the life of the people\") was employed for the first time in 1906 and the term \"Sitz im Leben\" in 1918. The term \"Sitz im Leben\" was used by classic form critics, as pointed out by Chris Tuckett, \"...it has been pointed out that the term \"Sitz im Leben\" was used in a rather peculiar way by the classic form critics. In fact the term is a sociological one, describing a typical situation within any community\" so that the meaning of the text is bound up with its function in the community, and social context. However some have noted that use in Biblical exegesis can be problematic.\n\nAt its simplest, it describes what occasions certain passages in the Bible were written for, and is often called the \"genres\" of the Bible. Simple examples of \"Sitz im Leben\" include the classification of material into letters, poems of lament, parables, psalms, and songs. However, \"Sitz im Leben\" can also involve many other considerations; who the speaker of a passage was, his role in life, the nature of his audience, and so on. Taken out of its original context, the original meaning of a passage is often lost. So for example, a psalm may have its \"Sitz\" in the ritual of the temple cult, or as an artistic votive offering, or in the sense of injustice arising from a power structure in Jerusalem society, or lament in defeat. A major aim of hermeneutics (contextualizing interpretation) is to uncover such things.\n\nThe term is also used to describe the contextual interpretation of archaeological artefacts and ancient sites. Only through examining the historical context can one properly interpret them.\n\nToday the term is also used outside theological research, when it is needed to examine a text for its sociologically relevant aspects. For example: the \"Sitz im Leben\" of a counting rhyme like \"eeny, meeny, miny, moe\" is a group of children deciding among themselves who will play in a game; when the children chant the song, we know that they are choosing who will play, but if we are unaware of this context, the rhyme appears merely to be nonsense about toes.\n\nIn linguistics the \"Sitz im Leben\" is determined by the text pragmatics.\n"}
{"id": "34883076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34883076", "title": "Skoob", "text": "Skoob\n\nSkoob is a collaborative social network for Brazilian readers, launched in January 2009 by developer Lindenberg Moreira. Without advertising, the site became a meeting point for readers and writers who exchange tips about books and organize meetings in bookstores. The network allows interaction with other social networks, such as Facebook and Twitter, as well as popular e-commerce stores in Brazil, such as: Americanas.com, Saraiva, and Submarino.\n\nSkoob's name comes from the English word \"books\" spelled backwards. Through free registration, the user creates a profile showing what books they are reading or rereading, have read, want to read, or are no longer reading, thus forming a \"virtual bookshelf\". Users can also add missing titles and share their views on the books via assessments and reviews. On January 27, 2012, a survey was released that indicates that Skoob had more than 1.200.000 users.\n"}
{"id": "29219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29219", "title": "Stone Age", "text": "Stone Age\n\nThe Stone Age was a broad prehistoric period during which stone was widely used to make implements with an edge, a point, or a percussion surface. The period lasted roughly 3.4 million years and ended between 8700 BCE and 2000 BCE with the advent of metalworking.\n\nStone Age artifacts include tools used by modern humans and by their predecessor species in the genus \"Homo\", and possibly by the earlier partly contemporaneous genera \"Australopithecus\" and \"Paranthropus\". Bone tools were used during this period as well but are rarely preserved in the archaeological record. The Stone Age is further subdivided by the types of stone tools in use.\n\nThe Stone Age is the first period in the three-age system of archaeology, which divides human technological prehistory into three periods:\nThe Stone Age is contemporaneous with the evolution of the genus \"Homo\", the only exception possibly being the early Stone Age, when species prior to \"Homo\" may have manufactured tools. According to the age and location of the current evidence, the cradle of the genus is the East African Rift System, especially toward the north in Ethiopia, where it is bordered by grasslands. The closest relative among the other living primates, the genus \"Pan\", represents a branch that continued on in the deep forest, where the primates evolved. The rift served as a conduit for movement into southern Africa and also north down the Nile into North Africa and through the continuation of the rift in the Levant to the vast grasslands of Asia.\n\nStarting from about 4 million years ago (mya) a single biome established itself from South Africa through the rift, North Africa, and across Asia to modern China, which has been called \"transcontinental 'savannahstan'\" recently. Starting in the grasslands of the rift, \"Homo erectus\", the predecessor of modern humans, found an ecological niche as a tool-maker and developed a dependence on it, becoming a \"tool equipped savanna dweller\".\n\nThe oldest indirect evidence found of stone tool use is fossilised animal bones with tool marks; these are 3.4 million years old and were found in the Lower Awash Valley in Ethiopia. Archaeological discoveries in Kenya in 2015, identifying possibly the oldest known evidence of hominin use of tools to date, have indicated that Kenyanthropus platyops (a 3.2 to 3.5-million-year-old Pliocene hominin fossil discovered in Lake Turkana, Kenya in 1999) may have been the earliest tool-users known.\n\nThe oldest stone tools were excavated from the site of Lomekwi 3 in West Turkana, northwestern Kenya, and date to 3.3 million years old. Prior to the discovery of these \"Lomekwian\" tools, the oldest known stone tools had been found at several sites at Gona, Ethiopia, on the sediments of the paleo-Awash River, which serve to date them. All the tools come from the Busidama Formation, which lies above a disconformity, or missing layer, which would have been from 2.9 to 2.7 mya. The oldest sites containing tools are dated to 2.6–2.55 mya. One of the most striking circumstances about these sites is that they are from the Late Pliocene, where previous to their discovery tools were thought to have evolved only in the Pleistocene. Excavators at the locality point out that:\n\nThe species who made the Pliocene tools remains unknown. Fragments of \"Australopithecus garhi\", \"Australopithecus aethiopicus\" and \"Homo\", possibly \"Homo habilis\", have been found in sites near the age of the Gona tools.\n\nIn July 2018, scientists reported the discovery in China of the oldest stone tools outside Africa, estimated at 2.12 million years old.\n\nInnovation of the technique of smelting ore ended the Stone Age and began the Bronze Age. The first most significant metal manufactured was bronze, an alloy of copper and tin, each of which was smelted separately. The transition from the Stone Age to the Bronze Age was a period during which modern people could smelt copper, but did not yet manufacture bronze, a time known as the Copper Age, or more technically the Chalcolithic, \"copper-stone\" age. The Chalcolithic by convention is the initial period of the Bronze Age. The Bronze Age was followed by the Iron Age.\n\nThe transition out of the Stone Age occurred between 6000 BCE and 2500 BCE for much of humanity living in North Africa and Eurasia. The first evidence of human metallurgy dates to between the 5th and 6th millennium BCE in the archaeological sites of Majdanpek, Yarmovac, and Pločnik in modern-day Serbia (a copper axe from 5500 BCE belonging to the Vinca culture), though not conventionally considered part of the Chalcolithic or \"Copper Age\", this provides the earliest known example of copper metallurgy. Note the Rudna Glava mine in Serbia. Ötzi the Iceman, a mummy from about 3300 BCE carried with him a copper axe and a flint knife.\n\nIn regions such as Sub-Saharan Africa, the Stone Age was followed directly by the Iron Age. The Middle East and southeastern Asian regions progressed past Stone Age technology around 6000 BCE. Europe, and the rest of Asia became post-Stone Age societies by about 4000 BCE. The proto-Inca cultures of South America continued at a Stone Age level until around 2000 BCE, when gold, copper and silver made their entrance. The Americas notably did not develop a widespread behavior of smelting Bronze or Iron after the Stone Age period, although the technology existed. Stone tool manufacture continued even after the Stone Age ended in a given area. In Europe and North America, millstones were in use until well into the 20th century, and still are in many parts of the world.\n\nThe terms \"Stone Age\", \"Bronze Age\", and \"Iron Age\" were never meant to suggest that advancement and time periods in prehistory are only measured by the type of tool material, rather than, for example, social organization, food sources exploited, adaptation to climate, adoption of agriculture, cooking, settlement and religion. Like pottery, the typology of the stone tools combined with the relative sequence of the types in various regions provide a chronological framework for the evolution of man and society. They serve as diagnostics of date, rather than characterizing the people or the society.\n\nLithic analysis is a major and specialised form of archaeological investigation. It involves the measurement of the stone tools to determine their typology, function and the technology involved. It includes scientific study of the lithic reduction of the raw materials, examining how the artifacts were made. Much of this study takes place in the laboratory in the presence of various specialists. In experimental archaeology, researchers attempt to create replica tools, to understand how they were made. Flintknappers are craftsmen who use sharp tools to reduce flintstone to flint tool.\n\nIn addition to lithic analysis, the field prehistorian utilizes a wide range of techniques derived from multiple fields. The work of the archaeologist in determining the paleocontext and relative sequence of the layers is supplemented by the efforts of the geologic specialist in identifying layers of rock over geologic time, of the paleontological specialist in identifying bones and animals, of the palynologist in discovering and identifying plant species, of the physicist and chemist in laboratories determining dates by the carbon-14, potassium-argon and other methods. Study of the Stone Age has never been mainly about stone tools and archaeology, which are only one form of evidence. The chief focus has always been on the society and the physical people who belonged to it.\n\nUseful as it has been, the concept of the Stone Age has its limitations. The date range of this period is ambiguous, disputed, and variable according to the region in question. While it is possible to speak of a general 'stone age' period for the whole of humanity, some groups never developed metal-smelting technology, so remained in a 'stone age' until they encountered technologically developed cultures. The term was innovated to describe the archaeological cultures of Europe. It may not always be the best in relation to regions such as some parts of the Indies and Oceania, where farmers or hunter-gatherers used stone for tools until European colonisation began.\n\nThe archaeologists of the late 19th and early 20th centuries CE, who adapted the three-age system to their ideas, hoped to combine cultural anthropology and archaeology in such a way that a specific contemporaneous tribe can be used to illustrate the way of life and beliefs of the people exercising a specific Stone-Age technology. As a description of people living today, the term \"stone age\" is controversial. The Association of Social Anthropologists discourages this use, asserting:To describe any living group as 'primitive' or 'Stone Age' inevitably implies that they are living representatives of some earlier stage of human development that the majority of humankind has left behind.\n\nIn the 1920s, South African archaeologists organizing the stone tool collections of that country observed that they did not fit the newly detailed Three-Age System. In the words of J. Desmond Clark,\n\nIt was early realized that the threefold division of culture into Stone, Bronze and Iron Ages adopted in the nineteenth century for Europe had no validity in Africa outside the Nile valley.\n\nConsequently, they proposed a new system for Africa, the Three-stage System. Clark regarded the Three-age System as valid for North Africa; in sub-Saharan Africa, the Three-stage System was best. In practice, the failure of African archaeologists either to keep this distinction in mind, or to explain which one they mean, contributes to the considerable equivocation already present in the literature. There are in effect two Stone Ages, one part of the Three-age and the other constituting the Three-stage. They refer to one and the same artifacts and the same technologies, but vary by locality and time.\n\nThe three-stage system was proposed in 1929 by Astley John Hilary Goodwin, a professional archaeologist, and Clarence van Riet Lowe, a civil engineer and amateur archaeologist, in an article titled \"Stone Age Cultures of South Africa\" in the journal \"Annals of the South African Museum\". By then, the dates of the Early Stone Age, or Paleolithic, and Late Stone Age, or Neolithic (\"neo\" = new), were fairly solid and were regarded by Goodwin as absolute. He therefore proposed a relative chronology of periods with floating dates, to be called the Earlier and Later Stone Age. The Middle Stone Age would not change its name, but it would not mean Mesolithic.\n\nThe duo thus reinvented the Stone Age. In Sub-Saharan Africa, however, iron-working technologies were either invented independently or came across the Sahara from the north (see \"iron metallurgy in Africa\"). The Neolithic was characterized primarily by herding societies rather than large agricultural societies, and although there was copper metallurgy in Africa as well as bronze smelting, archaeologists do not currently recognize a separate Copper Age or Bronze Age. Moreover, the technologies included in those 'stages', as Goodwin called them, were not exactly the same. Since then, the original relative terms have become identified with the technologies of the Paleolithic and Mesolithic, so that they are no longer relative. Moreover, there has been a tendency to drop the comparative degree in favor of the positive: resulting in two sets of Early, Middle and Late Stone Ages of quite different content and chronologies.\n\nBy voluntary agreement, archaeologists respect the decisions of the Pan-African Congress on Prehistory, which meets every four years to resolve archaeological business brought before it. Delegates are actually international; the organization takes its name from the topic. Louis Leakey hosted the first one in Nairobi in 1947. It adopted Goodwin and Lowe's 3-stage system at that time, the stages to be called Early, Middle and Later.\n\nThe problem of the transitions in archaeology is a branch of the general philosophic continuity problem, which examines how discrete objects of any sort that are contiguous in any way can be presumed to have a relationship of any sort. In archaeology, the relationship is one of causality. If Period B can be presumed to descend from Period A, there must be a boundary between A and B, the A–B boundary. The problem is in the nature of this boundary. If there is no distinct boundary, then the population of A suddenly stopped using the customs characteristic of A and suddenly started using those of B, an unlikely scenario in the process of evolution. More realistically, a distinct border period, the A/B transition, existed, in which the customs of A were gradually dropped and those of B acquired. If transitions do not exist, then there is no proof of any continuity between A and B.\n\nThe Stone Age of Europe is characteristically in deficit of known transitions. The 19th and early 20th-century innovators of the modern three-age system recognized the problem of the initial transition, the \"gap\" between the Paleolithic and the Neolithic. Louis Leakey provided something of an answer by proving that man evolved in Africa. The Stone Age must have begun there to be carried repeatedly to Europe by migrant populations. The different phases of the Stone Age thus could appear there without transitions. The burden on African archaeologists became all the greater, because now they must find the missing transitions in Africa. The problem is difficult and ongoing.\n\nAfter its adoption by the First Pan African Congress in 1947, the Three-Stage Chronology was amended by the Third Congress in 1955 to include a First Intermediate Period between Early and Middle, to encompass the Fauresmith and Sangoan technologies, and the Second Intermediate Period between Middle and Later, to encompass the Magosian technology and others. The chronologic basis for definition was entirely relative. With the arrival of scientific means of finding an absolute chronology, the two intermediates turned out to be will-of-the-wisps. They were in fact Middle and Lower Paleolithic. Fauresmith is now considered to be a facies of Acheulean, while Sangoan is a facies of Lupemban. Magosian is \"an artificial mix of two different periods\".\n\nOnce seriously questioned, the intermediates did not wait for the next Pan African Congress two years hence, but were officially rejected in 1965 (again on an advisory basis) by Burg Wartenstein Conference #29, \"Systematic Investigation of the African Later Tertiary and Quaternary\", a conference in anthropology held by the Wenner-Gren Foundation, at Burg Wartenstein Castle, which it then owned in Austria, attended by the same scholars that attended the Pan African Congress, including Louis Leakey and Mary Leakey, who was delivering a pilot presentation of her typological analysis of Early Stone Age tools, to be included in her 1971 contribution to \"Olduvai Gorge\", \"Excavations in Beds I and II, 1960–1963.\"\n\nHowever, although the intermediate periods were gone, the search for the transitions continued.\n\nIn 1859 Jens Jacob Worsaae first proposed a division of the Stone Age into older and younger parts based on his work with Danish kitchen middens that began in 1851. In the subsequent decades this simple distinction developed into the archaeological periods of today. The major subdivisions of the Three-age Stone Age cross two epoch boundaries on the geologic time scale:\nThe succession of these phases varies enormously from one region (and culture) to another.\n\nThe Paleolithic or Palaeolithic (from Greek: παλαιός, \"palaios\", \"old\"; and λίθος, \"lithos\", \"stone\" lit. \"old stone\", coined by archaeologist John Lubbock and published in 1865) is the earliest division of the Stone Age. It covers the greatest portion of humanity's time (roughly 99% of \"human technological history\", where \"human\" and \"humanity\" are interpreted to mean the genus \"Homo\"), extending from 2.5 or 2.6 million years ago, with the first documented use of stone tools by hominans such as \"Homo habilis\", to the end of the Pleistocene around 10,000 BCE. The Paleolithic era ended with the Mesolithic, or in areas with an early neolithisation, the Epipaleolithic.\n\nAt sites dating from the Lower Paleolithic Period (about 2,500,000 to 200,000 years ago), simple pebble tools have been found in association with the remains of what may have been the earliest human ancestors. A somewhat more sophisticated Lower Paleolithic tradition, known as the Chopper chopping-tool industry, is widely distributed in the Eastern Hemisphere. This tradition is thought to have been the work of the hominin species named Homo erectus. Although no such fossil tools have yet been found, it is believed that H. erectus probably made tools of wood and bone as well as stone.\nAbout 700,000 years ago, a new Lower Paleolithic tool, the hand ax, appeared. The earliest European hand axes are assigned to the Abbevillian industry, which developed in northern France in the valley of the Somme River; a later, more refined hand-axe tradition is seen in the Acheulian industry, evidence of which has been found in Europe, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. Some of the earliest known hand axes were found at Olduvai Gorge (Tanzania) in association with remains of H. erectus. Alongside the hand-axe tradition there developed a distinct and very different stone-tool industry, based on flakes of stone: special tools were made from worked (carefully shaped) flakes of flint. In Europe, the Clactonian industry is one example of a flake tradition. The early flake industries probably contributed to the development of the Middle Paleolithic flake tools of the Mousterian industry, which is associated with the remains of Neanderthal man.\n\nThe earliest documented stone tools have been found in eastern Africa, manufacturers unknown, at the 3.3 million year old site of Lomekwi 3 in Kenya. Better known are the later tools belonging to an industry known as Oldowan, after the type site of Olduvai Gorge in Tanzania.\n\nThe tools were formed by knocking pieces off a river pebble, or stones like it, with a hammerstone to obtain large and small pieces with one or more sharp edges. The original stone is called a core; the resultant pieces, flakes. Typically, but not necessarily, small pieces are detached from a larger piece, in which case the larger piece may be called the core and the smaller pieces the flakes. The prevalent usage, however, is to call all the results flakes, which can be confusing. A split in half is called bipolar flaking.\n\nConsequently, the method is often called \"core-and-flake\". More recently, the tradition has been called \"small flake\" since the flakes were small compared to subsequent Acheulean tools.The essence of the Oldowan is the making and often immediate use of small flakes.\n\nAnother naming scheme is \"Pebble Core Technology (PBC)\":Pebble cores are ... artifacts that have been shaped by varying amounts of hard-hammer percussion.\n\nVarious refinements in the shape have been called choppers, discoids, polyhedrons, subspheroid, etc. To date no reasons for the variants have been ascertained:From a functional standpoint, pebble cores seem designed for no specific purpose.\n\nHowever, they would not have been manufactured for no purpose:Pebble cores can be useful in many cutting, scraping or chopping tasks, but ... they are not particularly more efficient in such tasks than a sharp-edged rock.\n\nThe whole point of their utility is that each is a \"sharp-edged rock\" in locations where nature has not provided any. There is additional evidence that Oldowan, or Mode 1, tools were utilized in \"percussion technology\"; that is, they were designed to be gripped at the blunt end and strike something with the edge, from which use they were given the name of choppers. Modern science has been able to detect mammalian blood cells on Mode 1 tools at Sterkfontein, Member 5 East, in South Africa. As the blood must have come from a fresh kill, the tool users are likely to have done the killing and used the tools for butchering. Plant residues bonded to the silicon of some tools confirm the use to chop plants.\n\nAlthough the exact species authoring the tools remains unknown, Mode 1 tools in Africa were manufactured and used predominantly by \"Homo habilis\". They cannot be said to have developed these tools or to have contributed the tradition to technology. They continued a tradition of yet unknown origin. As chimpanzees sometimes naturally use percussion to extract or prepare food in the wild, and may use either unmodified stones or stones that they have split, creating an Oldowan tool, the tradition may well be far older than its current record.\n\nTowards the end of Oldowan in Africa a new species appeared over the range of \"Homo habilis\": \"Homo erectus\". The earliest \"unambiguous\" evidence is a whole cranium, KNM-ER 3733 (a find identifier) from Koobi Fora in Kenya, dated to 1.78 mya. An early skull fragment, KNM-ER 2598, dated to 1.9 mya, is considered a good candidate also. Transitions in paleoanthropology are always hard to find, if not impossible, but based on the \"long-legged\" limb morphology shared by \"H. habilis\" and \"H. rudolfensis\" in East Africa, an evolution from one of those two has been suggested.\n\nThe most immediate cause of the new adjustments appears to have been an increasing aridity in the region and consequent contraction of parkland savanna, interspersed with trees and groves, in favor of open grassland, dated 1.8–1.7 mya. During that transitional period the percentage of grazers among the fossil species increased from 15–25% to 45%, dispersing the food supply and requiring a facility among the hunters to travel longer distances comfortably, which \"H. erectus\" obviously had. The ultimate proof is the \"dispersal\" of \"H. erectus\" \"across much of Africa and Asia, substantially before the development of the Mode 2 technology and use of fire ...\" \"H. erectus\" carried Mode 1 tools over Eurasia.\n\nAccording to the current evidence (which may change at any time) Mode 1 tools are documented from about 2.6 mya to about 1.5 mya in Africa, and to 0.5 mya outside of it. The genus Homo is known from \"H. habilis\" and \"H. rudolfensis\" from 2.3 to 2.0 mya, with the latest habilis being an upper jaw from Koobi Fora, Kenya, from 1.4 mya. \"H. erectus\" is dated 1.8–0.6 mya.\n\nAccording to this chronology Mode 1 was inherited by \"Homo\" from unknown Hominans, probably \"Australopithecus\" and \"Paranthropus\", who must have continued on with Mode 1 and then with Mode 2 until their extinction no later than 1.1 mya. Meanwhile, living contemporaneously in the same regions \"H. habilis\" inherited the tools around 2.3 mya. At about 1.9 mya \"H. erectus\" came on stage and lived contemporaneously with the others. Mode 1 was now being shared by a number of Hominans over the same ranges, presumably subsisting in different niches, but the archaeology is not precise enough to say which.\n\nTools of the Oldowan tradition first came to archaeological attention in Europe, where, being intrusive and not well defined, compared to the Acheulean, they were puzzling to archaeologists. The mystery would be elucidated by African archaeology at Olduvai, but meanwhile, in the early 20th century, the term \"Pre-Acheulean\" came into use in climatology. C.E.P, Brooks, a British climatologist working in the United States, used the term to describe a \"chalky boulder clay\" underlying a layer of gravel at Hoxne, central England, where Acheulean tools had been found. Whether any tools would be found in it and what type was not known. Hugo Obermaier, a contemporary German archaeologist working in Spain, quipped:Unfortunately, the stage of human industry which corresponds to these deposits cannot be positively identified. All we can say is that it is pre-Acheulean. This uncertainty was clarified by the subsequent excavations at Olduvai; nevertheless, the term is still in use for pre-Acheulean contexts, mainly across Eurasia, that are yet unspecified or uncertain but with the understanding that they are or will turn out to be pebble-tool.\n\nThere are ample associations of Mode 2 with \"H. erectus\" in Eurasia. \"H. erectus\" – Mode 1 associations are scantier but they do exist, especially in the Far East. One strong piece of evidence prevents the conclusion that only \"H. erectus\" reached Eurasia: at Yiron, Israel, Mode 1 tools have been found dating to 2.4 mya, about 0.5 my earlier than the known \"H. erectus\" finds. If the date is correct, either another Hominan preceded \"H. erectus\" out of Africa or the earliest \"H. erectus\" has yet to be found.\n\nAfter the initial appearance at Gona in Ethiopia at 2.7 mya, pebble tools date from 2.0 mya at Sterkfontein, Member 5, South Africa, and from 1.8 mya at El Kherba, Algeria, North Africa. The manufacturers had already left pebble tools at Yiron, Israel, at 2.4 mya, Riwat, Pakistan, at 2.0 mya, and Renzidong, South China, at over 2 mya. The identification of a fossil skull at Mojokerta, Pernung Peninsula on Java, dated to 1.8 mya, as \"H. erectus\", suggests that the African finds are not the earliest to be found in Africa, or that, in fact, erectus did not originate in Africa after all but on the plains of Asia. The outcome of the issue waits for more substantial evidence. Erectus was found also at Dmanisi, Georgia, from 1.75 mya in association with pebble tools.\n\nPebble tools are found the latest first in southern Europe and then in northern. They begin in the open areas of Italy and Spain, the earliest dated to 1.6 mya at Pirro Nord, Italy. The mountains of Italy are rising at a rapid rate in the framework of geologic time; at 1.6 mya they were lower and covered with grassland (as much of the highlands still are). Europe was otherwise mountainous and covered over with dense forest, a formidable terrain for warm-weather savanna dwellers. Similarly there is no evidence that the Mediterranean was passable at Gibraltar or anywhere else to \"H. erectus\" or earlier hominans. They might have reached Italy and Spain along the coasts.\n\nIn northern Europe pebble tools are found earliest at Happisburgh, United Kingdom, from 0.8 mya. The last traces are from Kent's Cavern, dated 0.5 mya. By that time \"H. erectus\" is regarded as having been extinct; however, a more modern version apparently had evolved, \"Homo heidelbergensis\", who must have inherited the tools. He also explains the last of the Acheulean in Germany at 0.4 mya.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries archaeologists worked on the assumptions that a succession of Hominans and cultures prevailed, that one replaced another. Today the presence of multiple hominans living contemporaneously near each other for long periods is accepted as proved true; moreover, by the time the previously assumed \"earliest\" culture arrived in northern Europe, the rest of Africa and Eurasia had progressed to the Middle and Upper Palaeolithic, so that across the earth all three were for a time contemporaneous. In any given region there was a progression from Oldowan to Acheulean, Lower to Upper, no doubt.\n\nThe end of Oldowan in Africa was brought on by the appearance of Acheulean, or Mode 2, stone tools. The earliest known instances are in the 1.7–1.6 mya layer at Kokiselei, West Turkana, Kenya. At Sterkfontein, South Africa, they are in Member 5 West, 1.7–1.4 mya. The 1.7 is a fairly certain, fairly standard date. Mode 2 is often found in association with \"H. erectus\". It makes sense that the most advanced tools should have been innovated by the most advanced Hominan; consequently, they are typically given credit for the innovation.\n\nA Mode 2 tool is a biface consisting of two concave surfaces intersecting to form a cutting edge all the way around, except in the case of tools intended to feature a point. More work and planning go into the manufacture of a Mode 2 tool. The manufacturer hits a slab off a larger rock to use as a blank. Then large flakes are struck off the blank and worked into bifaces by hard-hammer percussion on an anvil stone. Finally the edge is retouched: small flakes are hit off with a bone or wood soft hammer to sharpen or resharpen it. The core can be either the blank or another flake. Blanks are ported for manufacturing supply in places where nature has provided no suitable stone.\n\nAlthough most Mode 2 tools are easily distinguished from Mode 1, there is a close similarity of some Oldowan and some Acheulean, which can lead to confusion. Some Oldowan tools are more carefully prepared to form a more regular edge. One distinguishing criterion is the size of the flakes. In contrast to the Oldowan \"small flake\" tradition, Acheulean is \"large flake:\" \"The primary technological distinction remaining between Oldowan and the Acheulean is the preference for large flakes (>10 cm) as blanks for making large cutting tools (handaxes and cleavers) in the Acheulean.\" \"Large Cutting Tool (LCT)\" has become part of the standard terminology as well.\n\nIn North Africa, the presence of Mode 2 remains a mystery, as the oldest finds are from Thomas Quarry in Morocco at 0.9 mya. Archaeological attention, however, shifts to the Jordan Rift Valley, an extension of the East African Rift Valley (the east bank of the Jordan is slowly sliding northward as East Africa is thrust away from Africa). Evidence of use of the Nile Valley is in deficit, but Hominans could easily have reached the palaeo-Jordan river from Ethiopia along the shores of the Red Sea, one side or the other. A crossing would not have been necessary, but it is more likely there than over a theoretical but unproven land bridge through either Gibraltar or Sicily.\n\nMeanwhile, Acheulean went on in Africa past the 1.0 mya mark and also past the extinction of \"H. erectus\" there. The last Acheulean in East Africa is at Olorgesailie, Kenya, dated to about 0.9 mya. Its owner was still \"H. erectus\", but in South Africa, Acheulean at Elandsfontein, 1.0–0.6 mya, is associated with Saldanha man, classified as \"H. heidelbergensis\", a more advanced, but not yet modern, descendant most likely of \"H. erectus\". The Thoman Quarry Hominans in Morocco similarly are most likely Homo rhodesiensis, in the same evolutionary status as \"H. heidelbergensis\".\nMode 2 is first known out of Africa at 'Ubeidiya, Israel, a site now on the Jordan River, then frequented over the long term (hundreds of thousands of years) by Homo on the shore of a variable-level palaeo-lake, long since vanished. The geology was created by successive \"transgression and regression\" of the lake resulting in four cycles of layers. The tools are located in the first two, Cycles Li (Limnic Inferior) and Fi (Fluviatile Inferior), but mostly in Fi. The cycles represent different ecologies and therefore different cross-sections of fauna, which makes it possible to date them. They appear to be the same faunal assemblages as the Ferenta Faunal Unit in Italy, known from excavations at Selvella and Pieterfitta, dated to 1.6–1.2 mya.\n\nAt 'Ubeidiya the marks on the bones of the animal species found there indicate that the manufacturers of the tools butchered the kills of large predators, an activity that has been termed \"scavenging\". There are no living floors, nor did they process bones to obtain the marrow. These activities cannot be understood therefore as the only or even the typical economic activity of Hominans. Their interests were selective: they were primarily harvesting the meat of Cervids, which is estimated to have been available without spoiling for up to four days after the kill.\n\nThe majority of the animals at the site were of \"Palaearctic biogeographic origin\". However, these overlapped in range on 30–60% of \"African biogeographic origin\". The biome was Mediterranean, not savanna. The animals were not passing through; there was simply an overlap of normal ranges. Of the Hominans, \"H. erectus\" left several cranial fragments. Teeth of undetermined species may have been \"H. ergaster\". The tools are classified as \"Lower Acheulean\" and \"Developed Oldowan\". The latter is a disputed classification created by Mary Leakey to describe an Acheulean-like tradition in Bed II at Olduvai. It is dated 1.53–1.27 mya. The date of the tools therefore probably does not exceed 1.5 mya; 1.4 is often given as a date. This chronology, which is definitely later than in Kenya, supports the \"out of Africa\" hypothesis for Acheulean, if not for the Hominans.\n\nFrom Southwest Asia, as the Levant is now called, the Acheulean extended itself more slowly eastward, arriving at Isampur, India, about 1.2 mya. It does not appear in China and Korea until after 1mya and not at all in Indonesia. There is a discernible boundary marking the furthest extent of the Acheulean eastward before 1 mya, called the Movius Line, after its proposer, Hallam L. Movius. On the east side of the line the small flake tradition continues, but the tools are additionally worked Mode 1, with flaking down the sides. In Athirampakkam at Chennai in Tamil Nadu the Acheulean age started at 1.51 mya and it is also prior than North India and Europe.\n\nThe cause of the Movius Line remains speculative, whether it represents a real change in technology or a limitation of archeology, but after 1 mya evidence not available to Movius indicates the prevalence of Acheulean. For example, the Acheulean site at Bose, China, is dated 0.803±3K mya. The authors of this chronologically later East Asian Acheulean remain unknown, as does whether it evolved in the region or was brought in.\n\nThere is no named boundary line between Mode 1 and Mode 2 on the west; nevertheless, Mode 2 is equally late in Europe as it is in the Far East. The earliest comes from a rock shelter at Estrecho de Quípar in Spain, dated to greater than 0.9 mya. Teeth from an undetermined Hominan were found there also. The last Mode 2 in Southern Europe is from a deposit at Fontana Ranuccio near Anagni in Italy dated to 0.45 mya, which is generally linked to \"Homo cepranensis\", a \"late variant of \"H. erectus\"\", a fragment of whose skull was found at Ceprano nearby, dated 0.46 mya.\n\nThis period is best known as the era during which the Neanderthals lived in Europe and the Near East (c. 300,000–28,000 years ago). Their technology is mainly the Mousterian, but Neanderthal physical characteristics have been found also in ambiguous association with the more recent Châtelperronian archeological culture in Western Europe and several local industries like the Szeletian in Eastern Europe/Eurasia. There is no evidence for Neanderthals in Africa, Australia or the Americas.\n\nNeanderthals nursed their elderly and practised ritual burial indicating an organised society. The earliest evidence (Mungo Man) of settlement in Australia dates to around 40,000 years ago when modern humans likely crossed from Asia by island-hopping. Evidence for symbolic behavior such as body ornamentation and burial is ambiguous for the Middle Paleolithic and still subject to debate. The Bhimbetka rock shelters exhibit the earliest traces of human life in India, some of which are approximately 30,000 years old.\n\nFrom 50,000 to 10,000 years ago in Europe, the Upper Paleolithic ends with the end of the Pleistocene and onset of the Holocene era (the end of the last ice age). Modern humans spread out further across the Earth during the period known as the Upper Paleolithic.\n\nThe Upper Paleolithic is marked by a relatively rapid succession of often complex stone artifact technologies and a large increase in the creation of art and personal ornaments. During period between 35 and 10 kya evolved: from 38 to 30 kya Châtelperronian, 40–28 Aurignacian, 28–22 Gravettian, 22–17 Solutrean, and 18–10 Magdalenian. All of these industries except the Châtelperronian are associated with anatomically modern humans. Authorship of the Châtelperronian is still the subject of much debate.\n\nMost scholars date the arrival of humans in Australia at 40,000 to 50,000 years ago, with a possible range of up to 125,000 years ago. The earliest anatomically modern human remains found in Australia (and outside of Africa) are those of Mungo Man; they have been dated at 42,000 years old.\n\nThe Americas were colonised via the Bering land bridge which was exposed during this period by lower sea levels. These people are called the Paleo-Indians, and the earliest accepted dates are those of the Clovis culture sites, some 13,500 years ago. Globally, societies were hunter-gatherers but evidence of regional identities begins to appear in the wide variety of stone tool types being developed to suit very different environments.\n\nThe period starting from the end of the last ice age, 10,000 years ago, to around 6,000 years ago was characterized by rising sea levels and a need to adapt to a changing environment and find new food sources. The development of Mode 5 (microlith) tools began in response to these changes. They were derived from the previous Paleolithic tools, hence the term Epipaleolithic, or were intermediate between the Paleolithic and the Neolithic, hence the term Mesolithic (Middle Stone Age), used for parts of Eurasia, but not outside it. The choice of a word depends on exact circumstances and the inclination of the archaeologists excavating the site. Microliths were used in the manufacture of more efficient composite tools, resulting in an intensification of hunting and fishing and with increasing social activity the development of more complex settlements, such as Lepenski Vir. Domestication of the dog as a hunting companion probably dates to this period.\n\nThe earliest known battle occurred during the Mesolithic period at a site in Egypt known as Cemetery 117.\n\nThe Neolithic, or New Stone Age, was approximately characterized by the adoption of agriculture. The shift from food gathering to food producing, in itself one of the most revolutionary changes in human history, was accompanied by the so-called Neolithic Revolution: the development of pottery, polished stone tools, and construction of more complex, larger settlements such as Göbekli Tepe and Çatal Hüyük. Some of these features began in certain localities even earlier, in the transitional Mesolithic. The first Neolithic cultures started around 7000 BCE in the fertile crescent and spread concentrically to other areas of the world; however, the Near East was probably not the only nucleus of agriculture, the cultivation of maize in Meso-America and of rice in the Far East being others.\n\nDue to the increased need to harvest and process plants, ground stone and polished stone artifacts became much more widespread, including tools for grinding, cutting, and chopping. Skara Brae located on Orkney island off Scotland is one of Europe's best examples of a Neolithic village. The community contains stone beds, shelves and even an indoor toilet linked to a stream. The first large-scale constructions were built, including settlement towers and walls, e.g., Jericho and ceremonial sites, e.g.: Stonehenge. The Ġgantija temples of Gozo in the Maltese archipelago are the oldest surviving free standing structures in the world, erected c. 3600–2500 BCE. The earliest evidence for established trade exists in the Neolithic with newly settled people importing exotic goods over distances of many hundreds of miles.\n\nThese facts show that there were sufficient resources and co-operation to enable large groups to work on these projects. To what extent this was a basis for the development of elites and social hierarchies is a matter of ongoing debate. Although some late Neolithic societies formed complex stratified chiefdoms similar to Polynesian societies such as the Ancient Hawaiians, based on the societies of modern tribesmen at an equivalent technological level, most Neolithic societies were relatively simple and egalitarian. A comparison of art in the two ages leads some theorists to conclude that Neolithic cultures were noticeably more hierarchical than the Paleolithic cultures that preceded them.\n\nThe Early Stone Age in Africa is not to be identified with \"Old Stone Age\", a translation of Paleolithic, or with Paleolithic, or with the \"Earlier Stone Age\" that originally meant what became the Paleolithic and Mesolithic. In the initial decades of its definition by the Pan-African Congress of Prehistory, it was parallel in Africa to the Upper and Middle Paleolithic. However, since then Radiocarbon dating has shown that the Middle Stone Age is in fact contemporaneous with the Middle Paleolithic. The Early Stone Age therefore is contemporaneous with the Lower Paleolithic and happens to include the same main technologies, Oldowan and Acheulean, which produced Mode 1 and Mode 2 stone tools respectively. A distinct regional term is warranted, however, by the location and chronology of the sites and the exact typology.\n\nThe Middle Stone Age was a period of African prehistory between Early Stone Age and Late Stone Age. It began around 300,000 years ago and ended around 50,000 years ago. It is considered as an equivalent of European Middle Paleolithic. It is associated with anatomically modern or almost modern \"Homo sapiens\". Early physical evidence comes from Omo and Herto, both in Ethiopia and dated respectively at c. 195 ka and at c. 160 ka.\n\nThe Later Stone Age (LSA, sometimes also called the Late Stone Age) refers to a period in African prehistory. Its beginnings are roughly contemporaneous with the European Upper Paleolithic. It lasts until historical times and this includes cultures corresponding to Mesolithic and Neolithic in other regions.\n\nStone tools were made from a variety of stones. For example, flint and chert were shaped (or \"chipped\") for use as cutting tools and weapons, while basalt and sandstone were used for ground stone tools, such as quern-stones. Wood, bone, shell, antler (deer) and other materials were widely used, as well. During the most recent part of the period, sediments (such as clay) were used to make pottery. Agriculture was developed and certain animals were domesticated as well.\n\nSome species of non-primates are able to use stone tools, such as the sea otter, which breaks abalone shells with them. Primates can both use and manufacture stone tools. This combination of abilities is more marked in apes and men, but only men, or more generally Hominans, depend on tool use for survival. The key anatomical and behavioral features required for tool manufacture, which are possessed only by Hominans, are the larger thumb and the ability to hold by means of an assortment of grips.\n\nFood sources of the Palaeolithic hunter-gatherers were wild plants and animals harvested from the environment. They liked animal organ meats, including the livers, kidneys and brains. Large seeded legumes were part of the human diet long before the agricultural revolution, as is evident from archaeobotanical finds from the Mousterian layers of Kebara Cave, in Israel.<ref name=\"doi10.1016/j.jas.2004.11.006\"></ref> Moreover, recent evidence indicates that humans processed and consumed wild cereal grains as far back as 23,000 years ago in the Upper Paleolithic.\n\nNear the end of the Wisconsin glaciation, 15,000 to 9,000 years ago, mass extinction of Megafauna such as the woolly mammoth occurred in Asia, Europe, North America and Australia. This was the first Holocene extinction event. It possibly forced modification in the dietary habits of the humans of that age and with the emergence of agricultural practices, plant-based foods also became a regular part of the diet. A number of factors have been suggested for the extinction: certainly over-hunting, but also deforestation and climate change. The net effect was to fragment the vast ranges required by the large animals and extinguish them piecemeal in each fragment.\n\nAround 2 million years ago, \"Homo habilis\" is believed to have constructed the first man-made structure in East Africa, consisting of simple arrangements of stones to hold branches of trees in position. A similar stone circular arrangement believed to be around 380,000 years old was discovered at Terra Amata, near Nice, France. (Concerns about the dating have been raised, see Terra Amata). Several human habitats dating back to the Stone Age have been discovered around the globe, including:\n\nPrehistoric art is visible in the artifacts. Prehistoric music is inferred from found instruments, while parietal art can be found on rocks of any kind. The latter are petroglyphs and rock paintings. The art may or may not have had a religious function.\nPetroglyphs appeared in the Neolithic. A Petroglyph is an intaglio abstract or symbolic image engraved on natural stone by various methods, usually by prehistoric peoples. They were a dominant form of pre-writing symbols. Petroglyphs have been discovered in different parts of the world, including Australia (Sydney rock engravings), Asia (Bhimbetka, India), North America (Death Valley National Park), South America (Cumbe Mayo, Peru), and Europe (Finnmark, Norway).\n\nIn paleolithic times, mostly animals were painted, in theory ones that were used as food or represented strength, such as the rhinoceros or large cats (as in the Chauvet Cave). Signs such as dots were sometimes drawn. Rare human representations include handprints and half-human/half-animal figures. The Cave of Chauvet in the Ardèche \"département\", France, contains the most important cave paintings of the paleolithic era, dating from about 36,000 BCE. The Altamira cave paintings in Spain were done 14,000 to 12,000 BCE and show, among others, bisons. The hall of bulls in Lascaux, Dordogne, France, dates from about 15,000 to 10,000 BCE.\n\nThe meaning of many of these paintings remains unknown. They may have been used for seasonal rituals. The animals are accompanied by signs that suggest a possible magic use. Arrow-like symbols in Lascaux are sometimes interpreted as calendar or almanac use, but the evidence remains interpretative.\n\nSome scenes of the Mesolithic, however, can be typed and therefore, judging from their various modifications, are fairly clear. One of these is the battle scene between organized bands of archers. For example, \"the marching Warriors\", a rock painting at Cingle de la Mola, Castellón in Spain, dated to about 7,000–4,000 BCE, depicts about 50 bowmen in two groups marching or running in step toward each other, each man carrying a bow in one hand and a fistful of arrows in the other. A file of five men leads one band, one of whom is a figure with a \"high crowned hat\".\n\nIn other scenes elsewhere, the men wear head-dresses and knee ornaments but otherwise fight nude. Some scenes depict the dead and wounded, bristling with arrows. One is reminded of Ötzi the Iceman, a Copper Age mummy revealed by an Alpine melting glacier, who collapsed from loss of blood due to an arrow wound in the back.\n\nModern studies and the in-depth analysis of finds dating from the Stone Age indicate certain rituals and beliefs of the people in those prehistoric times. It is now believed that activities of the Stone Age humans went beyond the immediate requirements of procuring food, body coverings, and shelters. Specific rites relating to death and burial were practiced, though certainly differing in style and execution between cultures. \n\nThe image of the caveman is commonly associated with the Stone Age. For example, a 2003 documentary series showing the evolution of humans through the Stone Age was called \"Walking with Cavemen\", but only the last programme showed humans living in caves. While the idea that human beings and dinosaurs coexisted is sometimes portrayed in popular culture in cartoons, films and computer games, such as \"The Flintstones\", \"One Million Years B.C.\" and \"Chuck Rock\", the notion of hominids and non-avian dinosaurs co-existing is not supported by any scientific evidence.\n\nOther depictions of the Stone Age include the best-selling \"Earth's Children\" series of books by Jean M. Auel, which are set in the Paleolithic and are loosely based on archaeological and anthropological findings.\n\nThe 1981 film \"Quest for Fire\" by Jean-Jacques Annaud tells the story of a group of early homo sapiens searching for their lost fire. A 21st-century series, \"Chronicles of Ancient Darkness\" by Michelle Paver tells of two New Stone Age children fighting to fulfil a prophecy and save their clan.\n\n"}
{"id": "20054492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20054492", "title": "Thomas Glazier", "text": "Thomas Glazier\n\nThomas Glazier of Oxford (fl. 1386-1427) was a master glazier active in England during the late 14th and early 15th century; he is one of the earliest identifiable stained glass artists, and is considered a leading proponent of the International Gothic style.\n\nGlazier's workshops were based in Oxford, and he was clearly an important figure in the town; he is recorded in New College's Steward's Book as being regularly invited to dine with the Warden and Fellows. Although we have some record of his professional activities (and appearance; see below) almost nothing is known of his personal life, other than that he was married.\n\nGlazier is particularly notable for his early adoption of elements of the emerging International Gothic style in his work: he may have been influenced by his contacts with European artists through William of Wykeham and his circle. His work is characterised by sophisticated draughtsmanship and placement of figures, and also by its remarkable stylistic development, indicating that such artists were open to absorbing new ideas during the course of their careers. Along with the work of John Thornton of Coventry, Glazier's style was highly influential. It is possible that Robert Lyen, who made windows for Exeter Cathedral, was his apprentice.\n\nGlazier's work survives in the chapels of New College, Oxford and of Winchester College. The latter scheme contains an 1822 copy of a self-portrait included in the original east window: this depicts him kneeling in prayer, wearing a long gown and with a short, forked beard of the sort fashionable in the late 14th century. There is a panel probably executed by him in the church of Thenford, Northamptonshire, as well as windows in Winchester Cathedral and the chapel of Merton College, Oxford.\n"}
{"id": "9486865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9486865", "title": "University of Hawaii Press", "text": "University of Hawaii Press\n\nThe University of Hawaii Press is a university press that is part of the University of Hawaii.\n\nThe University of Hawaii Press was founded in 1947, with the mission of advancing and disseminating scholarship by publishing current research in all disciplines of the humanities and natural and social sciences in the regions of Asia and the Pacific. In addition to scholarly monographs, the Press publishes educational materials and reference works such as dictionaries, language texts, classroom readers, atlases, and encyclopedias. During the 2006–2007 fiscal year, the Press published 94 projects: 80 books and monographs and 14 scholarly journals.\n\nAt 30 June 2007, the Press had published 2,323 books and other media, 1,289 of which are currently in print. With sales of over $3.7 million, the Press is ranked as a mid-sized university publisher by the Association of American University Presses and is considered by scholars to be a leader in the fields in which it publishes. In 2005, UH Press published more academic monographs on East Asia (China, Japan, and Korea) in English than any other university press, and was second only to RoutledgeCurzon among all English-language publishers (Chen & Wang 2008:37).\n\nThe Press was established in 1947 at the initiative of University of Hawaii President Gregg M. Sinclair. Its first publications included a reprint of \"The Hawaiian Kingdom\" by Ralph Kuykendall and \"Insects of Hawaii,\" by Elwood C. Zimmerman, both of which have become classics. Other enduring classics from its early years include the \"Hawaiian-English Dictionary,\" by Mary Kawena Pukui and Samuel Elbert, first published in 1957, last revised and enlarged in 1986, then reprinted 16 times; and \"Shoal of Time: A History of the Hawaiian Islands,\" by Gavan Daws, whose Press edition was first published in 1974 and reprinted 19 times.\n\nIn 1971, the University of Hawaii Press combined operations with the East-West Center Press and renamed itself the University Press of Hawaii, thus adding greater coverage of Asia to its previous strength in Hawaii and the Pacific. In 1981, the East-West Center withdrew its subsidy, and the name reverted to University of Hawaii Press, but the focus on Asia continued to grow, so that at least half its titles now focus on Asia, with the other half devoted to Hawaii (30%) and the Pacific (20%).\n\nUH Press output included journals from the very beginning. Most of the Press's inaugural budget appropriation was allocated to the journal \"Pacific Science\", whose first issue appeared in 1947. However, \"Pacific Science\" did not bear the UH Press imprint until 1953, two years after \"Philosophy East and West\" made its debut from UH Press (Kamins & Potter 1998:234-240).\n\nThe number of journals gradually expanded over the next few decades, with the acquisition of \"Oceanic Linguistics\" (in vol. V) in 1966 and \"Asian Perspectives\" (in vol. XII) in 1969, and the founding of \"Korean Studies\" in 1977, \"Biography\" in 1978, \"Buddhist-Christian Studies\" in 1981, and \"Asian Theatre Journal\" in 1984, all initiated at the University of Hawaii. Flush State budgets in the late 1980s and early 1990s permitted several further initiatives by other campus departments. The literary journal \"Mānoa\" and the \"island affairs\" journal \"The Contemporary Pacific\" made their debut in 1989, followed by the \"Journal of World History\" in 1990, and then \"China Review International\" in 1994, just before severe budget cutbacks eliminated all university subsidies to the Journals Department.\n\nJournals production struggled along, with some editorial offices assuming more of the burden, until Press subsidies were partially restored in 1998 and the department was restaffed. All 12 journals made their debut in the Project MUSE database of journals in the humanities and social sciences in 2000-2001, but \"Pacific Science\" switched to the BioOne collection of natural science journals in 2008. The \"Yearbook of the Association of Pacific Coast Geographers\" began publishing with UH Press in 2000 (in vol. 62) and made its debut in Project MUSE in 2004. The Asia Society's \"Archives of Asian Art\" began publishing with UH Press in 2007 (in vol. 57).\n\nDuring the 2007 fiscal year, the Press considered approximately 1,300 manuscripts and proposals, of which 60 were accepted for publication by the Editorial Board. As of 30 June 2007, 122 books were in press. Each book undergoes rigorous review, including preliminary evaluation by an in-house editor. Manuscripts that show promise are then evaluated by two external readers who are specialists in the subject matter. Those that receive two positive peer reviews are presented to the Press's academic editorial board, which makes the final determination about whether to publish.\n\nEast Asia is an especially important regional focus. During 2000-2005, the Press published 184 academic monographs on the region, 82 on China, 81 on Japan, and 21 on Korea. The three principal subject areas were language and literature (with 23 on China, 25 on Japan, and 7 on Korea); religion and philosophy (with 21 on China, 13 on Japan, and 2 on Korea); and history and fine arts (with 20 on China, 20 on Japan, and 7 on Korea) (Chen & Wang 2008:38).\n\nThe monograph series published by the Press indicate some principal areas of concentration.\n\nThe Press is represented in North America and Hawai‘i by independent commission sales representatives; in Europe, Africa, and the Middle East by London-based Eurospan Publishers Group; and in the Pacific and Asia region by its sales subsidiary, East-West Export Books (EWEB). EWEB also represents 55 other university presses and scholarly publishers in Asia and the Pacific. The Press maintains stock in warehouses in Pennsylvania, Honolulu, Canada, and England, and serves as a distributor for over 50 publishers and several individuals, providing sales, marketing, promotion, warehouse, and business services on a commission basis.\n\nEach year the Press displays its recently published books and journals at a range of professional meetings and trade shows held throughout the world, reaching a combined total of about 700,000 attendees at those events. The annual meeting of the Association for Asian Studies is its most important academic exhibit each year. Other major scholarly venues include the American Academy of Religion, American Anthropological Association, American Historical Association, American Library Association, Association for Asian American Studies, and College Art Association. Principal trade show venues have included the Australian Book Fair, BookExpo America, Canadian Booksellers Association Trade Fair, Frankfurt Book Fair, Los Angeles Times Festival of Books, and Taipei International Book Fair.\n\nFor the 2007 fiscal year, the top five bestselling books by dollar revenue were the revised and enlarged edition of the \"Hawaiian Dictionary\" by Mary Kawena Pukui and Samuel H. Elbert; the Beginning 1 volume of the \"Integrated Korean\" textbook series by the Korean Language Education and Research Center (KLEAR); \"Broken Trust\" by Samuel P. King and Randall W. Roth; the 4th edition of \"Japanese Culture\" by Paul Varley, and the 3rd edition of the \"Atlas of Hawaii\" by Sonia P. Juvik, James O. Juvik, and Thomas R. Paradise.\n\nThe Journals Department currently handles production, manufacturing, fulfillment, and delivery for the following scholarly journals.\n\n\nThe Department also distributes two journals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "72836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72836", "title": "Veii", "text": "Veii\n\nVeii (also Veius; ) was an important ancient Etruscan city situated on the southern limits of Etruria and only north-northwest of Rome, Italy. It now lies in Isola Farnese, in the comune of Rome. Many other sites associated with and in the city-state of Veii are in Formello, immediately to the north. Formello is named after the drainage channels that were first created by the Veians.\n\nVeii was the richest city of the Etruscan League. It was alternately at war and in alliance with the Roman Kingdom and later Republic for over 300 years. It eventually fell in the Battle of Veii to Roman general Camillus's army in 396 BC. Veii continued to be occupied after its capture by the Romans.\n\nThe site is now a protected area, part of the Parco di Veio established by the regional authority of Lazio in 1997.\n\nThe city of Veii lies mainly on a tuff plateau of area .\n\nThe Valchetta flows a few miles eastward to join the Tiber River on the south side of Labaro along the Via Flaminia and Veii's territory included this area.\n\nIts proximity to the Tiber and the trade route to the interior, which became the Via Flaminia, augmented its prosperity but also placed it in competition with Rome for the domination of Latium.\n\nThe temple of Juno was the greatest and most honoured in the city.\n\nThe largest visible monument is the sanctuary of Minerva from the 7th c. BC, situated along an important route just outside the city (at modern Portonaccio). The sanctuary was one of the oldest and most revered in Etruria, standing out for its sumptuous polychrome terracotta decorations, many of which can be seen today in the Villa Giulia. The sanctuary included the temple of Apollo of about 510 BC to which belonged the Apollo of Veii (now in the National Etruscan Museum).\n\nThe impressive thermal baths and the forum built under Augustus have been partially excavated in recent years.\n\nMany rich \"Tumuli\" and chamber tombs have been found. The most famous is the Grotta Campana uncovered in 1843, a chamber tomb with the oldest known Etruscan frescoes.\n\nThere are also long tunnels leading into the plateau of the city, which may corroborate Livy's account of the Roman victory in the Battle of Veii.\n\nThe walls of Veii, of which small sections remain, bordered the two intersecting streams using the streambeds as a ditch, with a wall across the plateau closing the triangle.\n\nEvery Etruscan stronghold was built on an elevation, and Veii was no exception. Its \"arx\", or citadel, was placed on a bluff delineated by cliffs within the angle of confluence of the two streams, nearly separated from the main ridge by a gully, through which ran a road in the Roman period. An archaeological site, Piazza d'Armi (\"military square\"), marks the location today.\n\nThe earliest evidence of occupation by demographic analysis, including that of the cemeteries, dates from the 10th century BC in the Late Bronze Age. Small settlements were scattered over a wider area than the plateau and the population of the plateau at Veii is estimated to have been stable at about 1000. In the 9th century BC, the Early Iron Age (Villanovan culture), the finds are localised to the plateau but appear to be associated with independent settlements, each with its own cemetery. Occupation gradually intensified in the 8th (remainder of Villanovan) and 7th (Orientalising Period) centuries BC, by conurbation of the settlements as the site assumed an urban appearance with city blocks in a grid pattern arranged around a central square containing a water cistern. That evidence suggests that the city of Veii was shaped into its classical form in the 7th century BC by a population, presumably Etruscan, first settling there in the 10th century BC.\n\nThe population of the early Veii practised both inhumation and cremation within the same family. The proportion was 50% in the 9th century BC, after a predomination of cremation (90%) earlier. In the 8th century, inhumation rose to 70%, which may be attributable to an influence from Latium, where inhumation prevailed in the 9th century BC.\n\nDuring the 9th and 8th centuries BC, the population density and grave goods were on the increase: more and wealthier people and also more of a disparity in wealth: the rise of a richer class. In the 8th century BC, both the potter's wheel and writing were introduced from Greece. During the entire period, the settlements translocated around the plateau; however, a settlement (Casale del Fosso) maintained a cemetery to the north of the plateau continuously from the late 9th century BC to the early 6th century BC.\n\nThe documented history of Veii, like that of all Italian cities in their early centuries, is sparse and unreliable.\n\nAccording to Livy (writing 700 years later), during the reign of Rome's mythical first king, Romulus, in the 8th century BC, the Fidenates and the Veientes were defeated in a war with Rome.\n\nPlutarch (writing even later in the 1st C. AD) says of them:The first (to oppose Romulus) were the Veientes, a people of Tuscany (the site is now in Lazio), who had large possessions, and dwelt in a spacious city; they took occasion to commence a war, by claiming Fidenae as belonging to them...\n\nFidenae and Veii were said to have again been defeated by Rome in the 7th century BC during the reign of Rome's third king Tullus Hostilius.\n\nIn the 6th century BC Rome's sixth king Servius Tullius warred against Veii (after the expiry of an earlier truce) and the Etruscans. He is said to have shown valour in the campaign, and to have routed a great army of the enemy. The war helped him to cement his position at Rome.\n\nIn 509 BC, after the overthrow of the Roman monarchy, the family of Tarquinius Superbus went into exile in Caere in Etruria. Tarquin sought to regain the throne, at first by the Tarquinian conspiracy and, when that failed, by force of arms. He convinced the cities of Tarquinii and Veii to support him, and led their armies against Rome in the Battle of Silva Arsia. The Roman army was victorious, and it is recorded by Livy that although the forces of Tarquinii fought well on the right wing, initially pushing back the Roman left wing, the Veientes on the left wing faltered and fled the battle, because they were accustomed to defeat at the hands of the Romans. After the loss of the battle the forces of Veii returned home. Livy writes that later in 509 BC, consul Publius Valerius Publicola returned to fight the Veientes.\n\nThe most famous king of Veii was Lars Tolumnus whose family was part of the Veientine aristocracy and who instigated a war with Rome in 438 BC. The nearby Roman colony of Fidenae revolted against Rome and allied itself with Veii, giving Tolumnus control of the Fidenate army. The Romans sent four envoys to demand an explanation but they were murdered. Rome declared war against Veii and sent Lucius Sergius with an army who won the battle but the Roman losses were so high that a state of emergency was declared. A subsequent fiercely-fought battle with Veii in 437 BC reinforced by a contingent from Falerii was indecisive until the tribune Aulus Cornelius Cossus unhorsed Tolumnus and killed him with his spear.\n\nIn 406 BC, Rome declared war against Veii, still powerful and well-fortified, and her allies Falerii and Capena which required the Romans to commence a siege lasting many years. As Plutarch says:\n\nVeii had been the capital of Etruria, not inferior to Rome, either in number of arms or multitude of soldiers, so that relying on her wealth and luxury, and priding herself upon her refinement and sumptuousness, she had engaged in many honourable contests with the Romans for glory and empire ... as the city was furnished with all sorts of weapons, offensive and defensive, likewise with corn and all manner of provisions, they cheerfully endured a siege\n\nAfter ten years, in 396 BC, the Romans appointed Camillus as \"dictator\". After defeating both Falerii and Capena at Nepete, Camillus commanded the final strike against Veii. He dug into the soft tuff rock below the walls whilst distracting the Veiians with attacks on the walls and infiltrated the city's drainage system to emerge in the citadel, leading to their defeat. Not interested in surrender but only in Veii's complete destruction, the Romans slaughtered the entire adult male population and made slaves of all the women and children. The plunder was very rich and extensive including the statue of Juno taken to Rome.\n\nCamillus supported the patricians in opposing the plebeian plan to populate Veii with half of the city of Rome designed to resolve poverty and space issues. Camillus deliberately protracted the project until its abandonment.\n\nThe city was soon assimilated under Roman control and is termed \"Roman Veii\" as opposed to \"Etruscan Veii\" by scholarly literature. Under the empire the Romans called the city the \"Municipium Augustum Veiens\". The city never recovered its former wealth or its population after the Roman conquest. Nevertheless, after Rome's defeat in the battle of the Allia, many Roman soldiers fled there, and a project was proposed for abandoning Rome for Veii; this project was successfully opposed by Camillus.\n\nThe Romans built wealthy villas in the region and Livia had an estate there, according to Suetonius.\n\nVeii was eventually abandoned after Roman times, and everything of value or utility was removed by anyone with access to the site. Finally it was filled and smoothed for ploughland and was forgotten until its rediscovery in the 17th century by the antiquarian Raffaello Fabretti.\n\nThe territory of a city-state anywhere within the Roman domain was, in Roman legal terminology, an \"ager\". The law made a number of fine distinctions, but by \"ager\" it meant primarily \"ager publicus\", \"public territory\", the land belonging to the state, which in those times was primarily agricultural (\"ager\" is \"field\"). \nThe \"ager Veientanus\" (i.e. of Veii) covered the entire region between the right bank of the lower Tiber river and the coast; that is all of southern Etruria. The northwest border was probably as far west as the Monti Sabatini and Lake Bracciano in the north. \nIn Etruscan times the \"ager Veiantanus\" shared the countryside with the \"Silva Ciminia\", the remnant of an ancient forest, of which the Romans stood in superstitious dread.\n\nThe \"ager Veiantanus\" remained for the most part agrarian until it became evident after World War II that the city of Rome was going to expand into and develop that area as a suburb. Moreover, a new method of ploughing was turning over the soil a metre deep, destroying all surface evidence. John Bryan Ward-Perkins, then Director of the British School at Rome, set into motion the South Etruria Survey (1954–1968), which cataloged all the visible antiquities in the \"ager Veientanus\". It was published in 1968.\n\nNearly 30 years later, in 1997, the Italian government moved to protect a part of that area, creating the Veio Regional Natural Park of between the Via Cassia on the west, the Via Flaminia on the east, the Via Campagnanese on the north and the city of Rome on the south. Within the park are the comuni of Campagnano di Roma, Castelnuovo di Porto, Formello, Magliano Romano, Mazzano Romano, Morlupo, Riano, Sacrofano and Municipio XX of the city of Rome.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44276836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44276836", "title": "When Women Lost Their Tails", "text": "When Women Lost Their Tails\n\nWhen Women Lost Their Tails () is a 1970 Italian fantasy-comedy film directed by Pasquale Festa Campanile. It is the sequel of \"When Women Had Tails\".\n"}
{"id": "57746048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57746048", "title": "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory (disambiguation)", "text": "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory (disambiguation)\n\nWilly Wonka and the Chocolate Factory may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47589048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47589048", "title": "Yazidi Americans", "text": "Yazidi Americans\n\nYazidis in the United States may refer to people born in or residing in the United States of full or partial Yazidi origin.\n\nIn the United States, Yazidi communities exist in Lincoln, Nebraska and Houston, Texas. It is thought that Nebraska has the largest settlement (an estimated number of at least 10,000) of Yazidis in the United States, with a history of immigration to the state under refuge settlement programs starting in the late 1990s.\n\n\n"}
