{"id": "38481199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38481199", "title": "1951 in philosophy", "text": "1951 in philosophy\n\n1951 in philosophy\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13029410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13029410", "title": "A New Chart of History", "text": "A New Chart of History\n\nIn 1769, 18th-century British polymath Joseph Priestley published A New Chart of History and its prose explanation as a supplement to his \"Lectures on History and General Policy\". Together with his \"Chart of Biography\" (1765), which he dedicated to his friend Benjamin Franklin), Priestley believed these charts would allow students to \"trace out distinctly the dependence of events to distribute them into such periods and divisions as shall lay the whole claim of past transactions in a just and orderly manner.\" \n\nThe \"Chart of History\" lists events in 106 separate locations; it illustrates Priestley's belief that the entire world's history was significant, a relatively new development in the 18th century, which had begun with Voltaire and William Robertson. The world's history is divided up into the following geographical categories: Scandinavia, Poland, Russia, Great Britain, Spain, France, Italy, Turkey in Europe, Turkey in Asia, Germany, Persia, India, China, Africa and America. Priestley aimed to show the history of empires and the passing of power; the subtitle of the \"Description\" that accompanied the chart was \"A View of the Principal Revolutions of Empire that have taken place in the World\" and he wrote that:\n\nThe capital use [of the \"Charts\" was as] a most excellent mechanical help to the knowledge of history, impressing the imagination indelibly with a just image of the rise, progress, extent, duration, and contemporary state of all the considerable empires that have ever existed in the world.\n\nAs Arthur Sheps in his article about the \"Charts\" explains, \"the horizontal line conveys an idea of the duration of fame, influence, power and domination. A vertical reading conveys an impression of the contemporaneity of ideas, events and people. The number or density of entries . . . tells us about the vitality of any age.\" Voids in the chart indicated intellectual Dark Ages, for example. \n\nBoth \"Charts\" were popular for decades—the \"A New Chart of History\" went through fifteen editions by 1816. The trustees of Warrington were so impressed with Priestley's lectures and charts that they arranged for the University of Edinburgh to grant him a Doctor of Law degree in 1764.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26381867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26381867", "title": "Aboiteau", "text": "Aboiteau\n\nAboiteau farming on reclaimed marshland is a labor-intensive method in which earthen dykes are constructed to stop high tides from inundating marshland. A wooden sluice or aboiteau (plural aboiteaux) is then built into the dyke, with a hinged door (clapper valve) that swings open at low tide to allow fresh water to drain from the farmland but swings shut at high tide to prevent salt water from inundating the fields.\n\nAboiteau farming is intimately linked with the story of French Acadian colonization of the shores of Canada's Bay of Fundy in the 17th and 18th centuries. In the Kamouraska region of the St. Lawrence Valley of Quebec, aboiteau diking of salt marshes was closely tied to the modernization of agriculture in the 19th and early 20th centuries. The Acadians constructed earthen dykes to isolate areas of salt marsh from repeated inundation by the tides.\n\nA rare original \"aboiteau\" is the jewel of the West Pubnico Acadian Museums' artifacts. In 1990, local residents found a couple of boards sticking out of an eroding beach on Double Island, West Pubnico. They returned to the site in 1996 to remove the aboiteau, to preserve and display it at the museum.\n"}
{"id": "3436857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3436857", "title": "Aksumite currency", "text": "Aksumite currency\n\nAksumite currency was coinage produced and used within the Kingdom of Aksum (or Axum) centered in present-day Eritrea and the Tigray Region of Ethiopia. Its mints were issued and circulated from the reign of King Endubis around AD 270 until it began its decline in the first half of the 7th century. During the succeeding medieval period, Mogadishu currency, minted by the Sultanate of Mogadishu, was the most widely circulated currency in the Horn of Africa.\n\nAksum's currency served as a vessel of propaganda demonstrating the kingdom's wealth and promoting the national religion (first polytheistic and later Oriental Christianity). It also facilitated the Red Sea trade on which it thrived. The coinage has also proved invaluable in providing a reliable chronology of Aksumite kings due to the lack of extensive archaeological work in the area.\n\nThough the issuing of minted coins didn't begin until around 270, metal coins may have been used in Aksum centuries prior to centralized minting. The \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\" mentions that the Aksumite state imported brass (), \"which they use[d] for ornaments and for cutting as money\", and they imported \"a little money (\"denarion\") for [use by] foreigners who live there.\" It can be inferred, therefore, that early Aksumite kings, located on the international trading waters of the Red Sea, recognized the utility of a standardized currency for facilitating both domestic and international trade.\n\nThough Aksumite coins are indigenous in design and creation, some outside influences encouraging the use of coins is undeniable. By the time coins were first minted in Aksum, there was widespread trade with Romans on the Red Sea; Kushana or Persian influence also cannot be ruled out. Roman, Himyarite, and Kushana coins have all been found in major Aksumite cities, however, only very small quantities have been attested and the circulation of foreign currency seems to have been limited. Though South Arabian kingdoms had also minted coins, they had already gone out of use by the time of certain Aksumite involvement in South Arabia under GDRT, and only very rarely produced electrum or gold denominations (silver mainly in Saba' and Himyar, while bronze in Hadhramaut), making influence unlikely. The major impetus, however, was not emulation but economical; the Red Sea and its coasts had always been an international trade area and coins would greatly facilitate trade and wealth in the now \"world power.\" Despite these influences, the coins were of genuinely indigenous design, and foreign influences were relatively weak and few in number.\n\nAksumite currency were first minted in the later stages of the growth of the empire, when its Golden Age had already begun. The minting of coins began around 270, beginning with the reign of Endubis.\n\nGold seems to have been acquired from a number of sources. Gold probably came from \"Sasu\" (southern Sudan), as well as more nearby Ethiopian sources, though the latter isn't well documented for the north. A gold trade from the southern areas of Ethiopia such as the medieval province/kingdom of Innarya has been attested from the 6th century (i.e. from the writings of Cosmas Indicopleustes) and continued through James Bruce's day (18th century). Gold also came from more northerly sources such as Gojjam, Beja lands, and what is now Eritrea, though the latter two are less certain. However, a recent gold exploration assay in Eritrea has found significant gold deposits at Emba Derho, and deposits are also attested at Zara in central-western Eritrea.\n\nWhile local sources of gold are attested during the Aksumite era, silver seems to have been rarer in Aksum. No mention of silver mines in the region exist until the 15th and 16th centuries. Though silver was imported as attested by the \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\", given the preponderance of silver coins, it could not have been the only source of silver in Aksum. Furthermore, a significant number of the silver coins contain gold inlays (presumably to increase the value), which would have been unnecessary if silver were so rare that it had to be mainly imported. Silver may have been obtained from the refinement of gold, which sometimes occurs naturally with silver in an alloy called electrum. Copper and bronze do not seem to have existed locally in the Aksumite empire, though they were noted as imports in the \"Periplus of the Erythraean Sea\".\n\nThough the gold coins were certainly the most valuable issue, followed by the silver one, the exact relationship between the three issues (gold, silver, and bronze) is not known. The supply of gold was closely controlled by the Aksumite state, as noted by Cosmas Indicopleustes, and other precious metals were undoubtedly also closely controlled, allowing the Aksumite state to ensure the usage of its currency.\n\nThe quality of the Aksumite coins were also closely controlled, usually of high purity. For example, the lowest purity of gold recorded thus far for Aphilas is 90 percent. Early issues were often very close to their theoretical weights, and some were even over.) However, the weight of the coins tended to decrease over time (though not continuously or uniformly). This may have reflected a desire to conform to the Diocletian monetary reform of 301, when the aureus was decreased from 1/60 of a pound to 1/72. Despite decreases in weight, the purity of the gold was largely maintained, even by later kings. The relative abundance of Aksumite coins as well as the many that have yet to be found indicate that Aksum must have had access to large quantities of gold.\n\nThe coins were often inscribed in Greek, as much of its trade was with the \"Graecised Orient.\" Later inscriptions made more use of Ge'ez, the language of the Aksumites, perhaps indicating a decline in its use for more international trade (i.e. with Rome and India). The obverse of the coins would always feature an image of the king (almost always in profile) wearing either a crown or helmet/regnal headcloth. The headcloth had some image perhaps representing pleats, rays, or sunburst in the front, as well as the tied end of a cloth or fillet to hold the helmet or headcloth in place. Most coins also included an inscription (usually in Greek) meaning \"King of Aksum\" or King of the Aksumites\" (\"Basileus AXWMITW\"). However, many coins were also minted anonymously (or even posthumously), especially during the 5th century. Inscriptions on the coins could include a \"bisi\" name (\"man of,\" Ge'ez: bə'əsyä ብእስየ) or an epithet (beginning with \"Əllä\", Ge'ez: እለ \"he who\") in addition to the king's personal name. \"Bisi\" names were used more often in conjuncture with personal names on earlier coins, while the epithets were more common in later years, being the only inscribed name in a few sources. Greek text was used in conjunction with Ge'ez script inscriptions, but was the only language used on the gold coins, with the exception of the Ge'ez language coins of Wazeba and MHDYS. Over time, the Greek used on the coins (gold, silver and bronze) deteriorated, indicative of Aksum's decline. Moreover, beginning with MHDYS for bronze coins and Wazeba for silver coins, Ge'ez gradually replaced Greek on the legends.\n\nAksumite coins used a number of mottoes throughout the period in which they were minted, beginning in the early 4th century. Around this time, numerous anonymous bronze coins with simply \"Βασιλεύς\" (Basileus, \"King\") on the obverse were minted by either King Ezana or one of his successors. The coins bore the first example of an Aksumite motto on the reverse, \"May this please the people\" (Greek: ΤΟΥΤΟΑΡΕΣΗΤΗΧΩΡΑ). It was later written in unvocalized Ge'ez as \"ለሐዘበ ፡ ዘየደአ\" \"LʾḤZB ZYDʾ\" and under King Kaleb also \"ለሀገረ ፡ ዘየደአ\" \"LHGR ZYDʾ\", \"may this please the city [country].\" Similar mottoes were used by other kings. Coins of the early 7th-century Emperor Armah had inscribed on the back \"ፈሰሐ ፡ ለየከነ ፡ ለአዘሐበ\" \"FŚḤ LYKN LʾḤZB\" (vocalization: ፍሥሓ ፡ ለይኲን ፡ ለአሕዛብ ፡ \"fiśśiḥā la-yikʷin la-'aḥzāb\", \"Let the people be glad,\" lit. \"Gladness let there be to the peoples\").\n\nEndubis, the first known Aksumite king to mint coins, focused almost entirely on his image on both the obverse and reverse. The images were of his head and upper half of his chest in profile, wearing a regnal headcloth or helmet and abundant jewelry. In addition to inscribing his regnal name, Endybis also noted his \"\"bisi\" name, a practice continued by his early successors, but often missing in later coins. The \"bisi\" name was a sort of tribal affiliation or \"ethnikon\" (i.e. a reference to the king's lineage) that was different for every king. Endybis also emphasized his religion through the pre-Christian symbol of the disk and crescent as a propaganda method (a purpose which the coins already served). A second motif used by Enybis and continued by following coins was that of two (though sometimes one in later years) ears of barley or wheat around the image of his head in profile. Though no inscriptional evidence exists, given its prominent position around the image of the king, the two ears of barley (or wheat) may have been representative symbols of the Aksumite state. Though later coins would be smaller, Endybis chose the Roman aureus to standardize Aksumite coin weights against, with gold issues at half-aureus around 2.70 grams (more precisely, the theoretical weight may have been 2.725g).\n\nWhereas all of Endubis's coins feature the king with a headcloth or helmet, Aphilas's coins show the king wearing an impressive high crown on top of the headcloth. The crown featured colonnades of arches supporting high spikes, on top of which rested large discs of unidentified composition. In addition to the crown and headcloth, Aphilas's coins included further images of regalia, such as a spear, a branch with berries, the depiction of the arms, the addition of tassels with fringes to the imperial robe, and more jewelry, such as amulets and bracelets. Despite this innovation, Aphilas continued to use the image of himself in the regnal headcloth in some coins, sometimes as the reverse, while his crowned image is only found on the obverse.\n\nOne of his issues included his frontal image on the obverse, which ended with his reign and was only revived by the late kings. Two other minting features of Aphilas were also abandoned by later rulers. One of these was the use of just the inscription \"King Aphilas\" as the reverse of a coin, the only purely epigraphical side ever used on an Aksumite coin. The other was his use of a single ear of barley or wheat as a reverse, though his use of two ears circling around the king's image continued.\n\nAphilas introduced a number of different standards for all three metals, some of which lasted through to the 7th century, while the use of others ended with his reign. His new gold coins (issued in conjunction with the older) of a quarter aureus and eighth aureus were soon abandoned (each are known from only one specimen), and 1/16 aureus coins have been found, though these are more likely to be deliberate debasements to increase profit (Aksumite gold was generally very pure, however). Aphilas's silver coin, however, issued at half the weight of the former, became the new Aksumite standard for silver up until the end of coinage. The older coin was presumably more valuable than needed, and the new coin remedied the problem. Aphilas's bronze issue, however, was instead doubled to 4.83 grams. The coin's rarity may attest to its quick withdrawal from the market, as is assumed with his quarter-aureus. These two issues are the only one of Aphilas's issues to portray him frontally, rather than in profile.\n\nDuring Ezana's reign a major change in both the Aksumite kingdom and its coinage took place as a result of the change of the official religion to Christianity, one of the first states ever to do so. While Ezana's coins in the first half of his reign are almost identical to those of Aphilas, barring minimal weight reductions, those of his second half employ revolutionary designs. With his conversion to Christianity, Ezana began to feature the Cross on his coins, the first time the Christian cross had ever been featured in coinage in the world. Some of his gold Christian coins are of the weight before Constantine I's weight reform in 324, indicating a conversion before this date or perhaps a few years after, as the Aksumite coinage may not have changed weights immediately. Along with the adoption of the Cross on his coins came, of course, the abandonment of the star and crescent symbol on the coins. Later Christian coins reflect the adoptment of the 4.54 g standard by Constantine, with theoretical weights in Aksumite coins likewise dropping to 1.70 g for the gold coins.\n\nCoins of Ezana without any symbol at all have also been found, along with similar symboless coins of his father, Ousanas. These may reflect a transition in the religion in Aksum when Frumentius was influencing Ezana's father and gathering Christians in the country, giving weight to the writings of Rufinus. The lack of symbol altogether may reflect an uncertainty as how best to exhibit the change in religion of the Aksumite state.\n\nThe gold coin weighed on average 2.5-2.8 grams and was 15–21 mm in diameter at the start of issue, in 270-300. This would make it half an Aureus which weighed 4.62-6.51 grams at the time of Probus. The issue of Israel (570-600) weighed 1.5 grams and was 17 mm in diameter. The Roman solidus of Maurice Tiberius was 4.36-4.47 grams. A majority of these coins were found in South Arabia and not Aksum. The name is unknown so it is referred to as an AU Unit.\n\nAlso starting with Endubis these coins were 2.11-2.5 grams in weight which is half the weight of a Roman antoninianus of 3.5-4.5 grams. A Denarius in the early 3rd century was 2.5-3.00 grams of 52 percent or less of silver, but the Aksum coins were almost pure silver at first later debased. The name is unknown so it is referred to as an AR Unit.\n\nMost bronze and silver coins have mainly been found in Aksum territory, with very few pieces found in Judea, Meroë and Egypt. They are based roughly on the size of older Roman As and Sestertius in shape and thickness. The design also developed like Roman coins in first being good but then the pictures turn archaic and non recognisable. The name is unknown so it is referred to as an Æ diameter in mm Unit, like Æ17 for a coin of 17 mm.\n\nAt the time of Aksum's minting of currency, the state already had a long trade history with Greece, Rome, the Persian Empire, and India. That coinage began so late is in fact a little surprising. The late use of coinage may be attributed to the lack of a developed economy, required for coinage to be accepted. Most Aksumite coins were found in the large trade centres with very few in remote villages, where trade would be more through barter and not coinage based. In fact, the motivation for Aksum's initial minting of coins was for foreign trade and markets, as evidenced by the use of Greek on most of its coins. Moreover, gold coins seem to have been intended primarily for external trade, while copper and silver coins probably mainly circulated within the Aksumite empire, as the gold issues generally specified \"king of the Aksumites\" as title of the Aksumite king, whereas the title of silver and copper issues generally only read \"king.\" International use of Aksumite coins seems to have begun early on, as coins of King Ezana and even of King Aphilas (the second Aksumite ruler to issue coins) have been found in India.\n\nDuring the 7th century, Aksumite power began to fail, and Ethiopian society began to withdraw further into the highland hinterlands, with the coastal areas becoming peripheral areas (whereas Adulis on the coast was once the second city of Aksum). The coins continued circulation, but were restricted to more local areas such as Nubia, South Arabia and the Horn of Africa.\n\nDue to the nature of the coins (e.g. providing kings' names), they have proved essential in constructing a chronology of the Kings of Aksum. An estimated 98 percent of the city of Aksum remains unexcavated, and other areas even more so. Through analysis of the number of coins produced and the style of coins, archaeologists have been able to construct a rough chronology, generally agreed upon until the late 6th- and 7th-century kings. Of the 20 Aksumite Kings attested by their coins, inscriptions corroborate the existence of only two, who happen to be the most famous kings: Ezana and Kaleb, both of whose reigns were periods of exceptional prosperity during the height of the Aksumite kingdom.\n\nMany coins have been found in northern Ethiopia and Eritrea, the central region of Aksum, though Aksumite coins are reported to have been found in Arato and Lalibela. Many coins have been also found further afield. Numerous hoards of coins (always gold save one silver coin) have been found in Southern Arabia, much more than in Aksum itself, attesting perhaps to an Aksumite presence in parts of the region (perhaps supporting the use of titles claiming control over parts of South Arabia from GDRT's time). The hoards may be the remnants of hoards left in Kaleb's time (perhaps used to pay soldiers), when it was under an Aksumite governor. Outside of the Horn of Africa and Arabian Peninsula, coins have been found as far as Israel, Meroe, Egypt, and India. Silver and copper coins are mainly found in Aksum, though some can be traced to Palestinian pilgrim centers.\n\nIn addition to historical evidence, the coins' use of Ge'ez provides valuable linguistic information. Though rarely used, the vocalization of Ge'ez sometimes employed on Aksumite coins allows linguists to analyze vowel changes and shifts that cannot be represented in the older Semitic abjads such as Hebrew, Arabic, South Arabian, and earlier, unvocalized Ge'ez.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25825580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25825580", "title": "Amiya Prosad Sen", "text": "Amiya Prosad Sen\n\nAmiya Prosad Sen (born 1952) is a historian with an interest in the intellectual and cultural history of modern India. Currently he is Sivadasani Fellow at the Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies, Oxford (UK). He was previously the Heinrich Zimmer Chair at the South Asia Institute, Heidelberg University. He has served as Professor of Modern Indian History at Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi. He has been Agatha Harrison Fellow to the University of Oxford and Visiting Fellow to the Indian Institute of Advanced Study, Shimla, and the Centre for Contemporary Studies, Nehru Memorial Museum & Library, New Delhi. During 2007–08, he was Tagore professor at Vishwa Bharati, Shantiniketan.\n\nSen took his bachelor's and master's degrees in history from St. Stephen's College, Delhi and also pursued his PhD there. After a brief career in Indian Civil Services, he took up teaching and research in 1984.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52597516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52597516", "title": "Angelo Segrillo", "text": "Angelo Segrillo\n\nAngelo de Oliveira Segrillo (born October 4, 1958) is a Brazilian historian specialized in Russia and in comparative studies of Russia, the West and Brazil. He holds a B.A. from Missouri State University, a master´s degree from the Pushkin Institute (Moscow, Russia) and a doctorate from Universidade Federal Fluminense (Brazil). He is an associate professor of history at the University of Sao Paulo.\n\nSegrillo´s doctoral dissertation — published under the title \"O Declínio da URSS: um estudo das causas\" (“The Decline of the USSR: a study of its causes”) — was the first major Brazilian academic work using first-hand research into the formerly classified Soviet files. He analyzed the decline of the Soviet economy in its last decades not as a purely internal process, but as accompanying (and associated with) the changes in the world economy, which was moving from Fordist to Post-Fordist paradigms. The rigid, vertically oriented Soviet system had been competitive with the West in the decades when the (similarly rigid, vertically oriented) Fordism was paramount. However, when flexible post-Fordist paradigms (such as Toyotism) came along and set new rules for the game, the USSR started having problems of adaptation to these new requirements of flexibility. An abridged version of this argument can be seen in English in a short essay titled \"The Decline of the Soviet Union\",\n\nNotable among other books written by Angelo Segrillo in Portuguese are \"Rússia e Brasil em Comparação\" (“Russia and Brazil in Comparison”, a comparative analysis of Russian and Brazilian political parties in the process of democratization since 1985) and \"Rússia: Europa ou Ásia\" (“Russia: Europe or Asia?”, about the debates between Westernizers, Slavophiles and Eurasianists and how these identity questions shape Russia´s foreign policy today between East and West).\n\nAmong his works in the English language, Professor Segrillo proposed a new index to measure political and economic democracy in his 2012 article, \"Liberalism, Marxism and Democratic Theory Revisited: Proposal of a Joint Index of Political and Economic Democracy\". He also presented the first complete translation into English of Peter the Great´s original Table of Ranks in a 2016 paper.\n\nIn English\n\nIn Russian\n\nIn French\n\nIn Portuguese\n\n"}
{"id": "47234675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47234675", "title": "Awn ar-Rafiq", "text": "Awn ar-Rafiq\n\n‘Awn al-Rafīq Pāshā ibn Muḥammad ibn ‘Abd al-Mu‘īn ibn Awn (; , '; February 184117 July 1905), also known as Awn al-Rafiq ibn Muhammad ibn Awn, was a member of the Awn clan of sharifs who served as Emir and Sharif of Mecca from 1882 to 1905.\n\nHe was born in Medina at the end of Dhu al-Hijjah 1256 AH (February 1841), the fourth son of Sharif Muhammad ibn Abd al-Mu'in ibn Awn after Abdullah, Ali, and Husayn.\n\nIn June 1877, the Ottoman vali Taqiuddin Pasha appointed Awn al-Rafiq as acting Emir following the death of his eldest brother, Sharif Abd Allah Pasha, who had served as Emir for nearly two decades. Sharif Husayn Pasha, the next eldest of the Awn clan, was appointed to the Emirate and arrived from Istanbul in August. As was customary, the heir-apparent Awn al-Rafiq was then himself summoned to the capital, where he was appointed to the Ottoman Council of State with the rank of \"vezir\". Husayn's tenure as Emir was cut short by his assassination in 1880. Sultan Abdulhamid, who suspected that the late Emir had been conspiring with the British to establish \"an Arab government in opposition to the Caliphate\", decided not to appoint Husayn's brother, Awn al-Rafiq to the Emirate. He instead appointed the elderly Sharif Abd al-Muttalib ibn Ghalib of the Dhawu Zayd, who had been held in Istanbul for the past two decades following his deposition in 1856. With this transfer of power to the rival clan of Zayd, the Sultan aimed to limit foreign influence and the power of the Awn clan, and to strengthen Ottoman control over the Hejaz. British diplomats attempted to block the appointment of Abd al-Muttalib. Immediately after Husayn's death, James Zohrab, the British consul in Jeddah, wrote to his superiors that British interests demanded the appointment of Awn al-Rafiq, who was \"liberal and enlightened\", while Abd al-Muttalib was \"a fanatical Wahhabee\" with a \"hatred of Christians and foreigners\". The British ambassador to Istanbul, Austen Henry Layard, asked the Sultan not to appoint Abd al-Muttalib, but was told that the decision had already been made. The Sultan did however assure Layard, as well Awn al-Rafiq, that he would be appointed following the death of Abd al-Muttalib.\n\nIn 1882 Abd al-Muttalib was deposed by Osman Nuri Pasha, who unilaterally declared Awn al-Rafiq's younger brother Sharif Abd al-Ilah as Emir. However this was rejected by Sultan Abd al-Hamid, who instead appointed Awn al-Rafiq as Emir, with Abd al-Ilah to serve as acting Emir until his arrival from Istanbul. A telegraph was sent to this effect at the end of Dhi al-Qi'dah 1299 AH (October 1882).\n\nAwn al-Rafiq served as Emir until his death in Taif on 17 July 1905. He was buried near his brother Abd Allah in the qubbah (tomb-building) of Abd Allah ibn Abbas.\n\n"}
{"id": "48231079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48231079", "title": "Ben Abraham", "text": "Ben Abraham\n\nBen Abraham (born Henryk Nekrycz; December 11, 1924 – October 9, 2015) was a Polish-born writer and historian who became a naturalized Brazilian citizen.\n\nHe was the son of Abraham Nekrycz and Ida Nekrycz. Abraham was born in Łódź, Poland. Abraham survived the ghetto in the city and the concentration camps during the years of German occupation of his country.\n\nAbraham's parents died in the Auschwitz concentration camp. After Auschwitz he spent time in three other concentration camps: Braunschweig, , and Ravensbrück. On the night of May 1, 1945, he was released, weighing and suffering from tuberculosis in both lungs, scurvy and dysentery. Among Abraham's 200 relatives he and his cousin were the only ones who survived.\n\nBen Abraham spent the next two years being transferred between several American hospitals in Germany, eventually achieving a full recovery. According to him \"It was a miracle; that time tuberculosis cure did not even exist\".\n\nIn 1947, after his recovery he clandestinely immigrated to Palestine. There Abraham witnessed another conflict, The War of Independence of the Israel State. He was not admitted to the army due to his health, so he bought an old truck and worked for the Israeli army as a driver. \n\nAbraham arrived in Brazil on January 21, 1955. On April 28, 1956 he married Miriam Dvora Brik, of a Ukrainian Jewish family from Lutsk. In Brazil, he was recruited by Mossad and cooperated with it until mid-90s. He was naturalized as a Brazilian citizen on January 30, 1959.\n\nFor his work and 15 books related to the Holocaust, Abraham received numerous honors as a journalist, including the Golden Key of Yad Vashem and the Medal of Honor and Merit of University of São Paulo. \n\nBen Abraham died in São Paulo, just two months before his 91st birthday.\n\n"}
{"id": "26752261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26752261", "title": "Buddy Tudor", "text": "Buddy Tudor\n\nRobert Beall Tudor, Jr. (May 18, 1935 – March 14, 2010), known as Buddy Tudor, was an American real estate developer. Based in Pineville, Louisiana, whose family-owned Tudor Construction Company and Tudor Enterprises together surpassed a billion dollars in development. An active member of the Baptist Church, Tudor was also a contributor to the Louisiana Republican Party and a personal friend of David C. Treen, Louisiana's first GOP U.S. representative and governor since Reconstruction.\n\nIn 1946, Tudor's grandfather, Simon Woodson Tudor (1887–1956), a Kentucky native, founded Tudor Construction Company in Pineville. Tudor Hall, a men's dormitory, at Baptist-affiliated Louisiana College in Pineville is named for him. After a decade in business, Simon Tudor died, and the company passed to son Robert Tudor, Sr. (1914–1987). Simon Tudor was married to the former Frances Ollie Beall (1894–1992). After the death of Robert Tudor, Sr., Lorraine Price Tudor (1915–2009), Buddy Tudor's mother, married Leonard F. Sanderson, Sr. (1914–2005), a widower and a retired Louisiana Baptist Convention official.\n\nTudor, Jr., graduated in 1953 from Bolton High School in Alexandria prior to the opening of Pineville High School. At Bolton, he played basketball and tennis and was the state runner-up in men's singles tennis in both his junior and senior years. As a civil engineering student at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge from 1953–1957, he lettered in varsity tennis all four years and was the team captain in 1956 and 1957. He was a member of Sigma Tau Alpha and Tau Beta Pi national engineering fraternities, Omicron Delta Kappa leadership and scholastic fraternity, and Sigma Chi social fraternity. He was named the outstanding engineering graduate in the Class of 1957. Tudor completed Reserve Officers Training Corps and was named LSU's distinguished military graduate. He was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the anti-aircraft artillery of the United States Army, with active duty at Fort Bliss near El Paso, Texas, and Fort Chaffee near Fort Smith, Arkansas.\n\nAfter military service, Tudor returned to Alexandria-Pineville to join his father as the third generation at Tudor Construction Company and became managing partner in 1961. The company was one of the few Louisiana firms of its kind to operate statewide and then to assume projects out-of-state and across the American South. The firm established offices in Baton Rouge, Lafayette, Hammond and in Denver, Colorado, and Washington, D.C. The company is now owned and operated by John Michael Tudor (born September 22, 1961), great-grandson of Simon Tudor and the representative of the fourth generation of Tudors in charge of the business.\n\nAmong the structures developed or constructed by Tudor Enterprises are Alexandria Mall, the Rapides Parish Coliseum in Alexandria, and the Central Louisiana Electric Company headquarters in Pineville. He also built or expanded churches: Calvary Baptist and Emmanuel Baptist, and First United Methodist Church, all in Alexandria, and Pineville's First Baptist Church, his own congregation. Other projects are the Rapides Regional Women's and Children's Hospital, Tudor Hall and Guinn Auditorium at Louisiana College, Grande Theatre, and the One Centre Court and Two Centre Court office complexes on Jackson Street in Alexandria. Tudor owned or was the principal developer of downtown Alexandria properties the Bentley Hotel (since sold), Jackson Place, the Commercial Building, and the Diamond Grill restaurant. Tudor constructed the tennis courts and the diving pool at the Alexandria Aquatic and Racquet Club. He also assisted in the building of the athletics complex, including tennis courts, at Pineville High School. He often played tennis even with later health problems.\n\nDuring the Treen administration, Tudor lost the contract for the building of the Cajundome complex in Lafayette to Blount Brothers of Montgomery, Alabama. Blount was also a Republican, having been U.S. Postmaster General in the Nixon administration and his party's unsuccessful U.S. Senate nominee in 1972. Ron Gomez, then a member of the Louisiana House of Representatives from Lafayette, recalled the machinations over the approval of the sports complex, home of the University of Louisiana at Lafayette Ragin' Cajuns team. Treen had expected Tudor to win the Cajundome contract, but he was ostensibly outbid by Blount. However, considering five alternates and other changes in the contract in the end could have made Tudor the lower bidder. The project ultimately was completed in 1985 at a cost of $60 million.\n\nTudor had contacted Treen's aide, John H. Cade, Jr., of Alexandria and commissioner of administration E.L. \"Bubba\" Henry to ask them to intervene on his behalf. In a letter to Treen, Tudor said that the Cajundome plans \"as drawn, reflect the needs of the Lafayette area, and it would certainly be a shame to build something less than that needed which might be outdated before completion. I realize than my arguments may be taken as being strictly self-serving, but I honestly must say that whether we are the successful contractor or not would in no way alter these facts. I know that this is a difficult decision for you.\"\n\nTreen's long-time Louisiana rival, Edwin Washington Edwards, a Democrat, appearing at the Central Louisiana Press Club gridiron show, once poked fun at Tudor by saying how happy he was to be in \"Tudorville\", his epithet for the Alexandria-Pineville community.\n\nThough a Republican, Tudor donated $1,000 in 2008 to the reelection of Democratic U.S. Senator Mary Landrieu of Louisiana.\n\nTudor was the founding member of Central Cities Development Corporation, which focuses on the revitalization of downtown Alexandria. He was the first chairman of the Rapides Area Planning Commission (1970–1974). He served as President of the Alexandria Rotary Club (1969–1970), and on the boards of numerous civic organizations, such as the Alexandria-Pineville Chamber of Commerce, the LSU Foundation, the Boy Scouts of America, and the Young Men's Christian Association. He was active in the \"good government\" interest groups, the Council for a Better Louisiana and the Louisiana Association of Business and Industry. He was also affiliated with the industry trade group, the Associated General Contractors, and the non-profit organization, the Urban Land Institute.\n\nIn 1970, he was named Outstanding Young Man of the Year in Central Louisiana and one of three such honorees statewide. He received awards from the Louisiana Preservation Alliance and the National Trust for Historic Preservation for his work on the Bentley Hotel and the Diamond Grill. In 2007, he was awarded the Trustee's Distinguished Service Award by Louisiana College, where his grandfather had been a faculty member and coach prior to entering the construction business.\n\nTudor was married three times. He was divorced from the first wife, now Jane Anne Welch (born 1936) of Santa Fe, New Mexico. He was divorced from his second wife, Patricia Murphy of Baton Rouge. His third and surviving wife is the former Patsy Graham (born November 21, 1959) of Pineville. He had five children from the first marriage, Anne Elizabeth \"Lisa\" Tudor (born ca. 1957), formerly Anne T. Stoller, of New Orleans, Robert B. Tudor, III (born ca. 1959), and wife, the former Phoebe Brian, of Houston, Texas; John M. Tudor; William A. Tudor (born 1964) and ex- wife Monique of Pineville; and Geoffrey Trever Tudor (born ca. 1966) of Austin, Texas. He is also survived by three stepchildren, Michelle H. Jennings and husband Nathan of Fort Hood near Killeen, Texas, Justin Michael Hathorn and wife Ali of Monroe, and Holly Hathorn and her fiancé, Brandon Malone, of Pineville. Other survivors are a sister, Sue Tudor Miller (born ca. 1933), and a brother, attorney Michael Simon Tudor (born January 8, 1945) and his wife, Susan, all of Pineville.\n\nTudor died at the age of seventy-four at his Pineville home after a 17-year struggle with cancer. Services were held on March 17 at the First Baptist Church of Pineville, where he had been a deacon and taught Sunday school, with pastor, Dr. Stewart Holloway, officiating. Tudor is interred at Greenwood Memorial Park in Pineville.\n"}
{"id": "17261848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17261848", "title": "Dacianos", "text": "Dacianos\n\nThe Dacianos formed the mythical group of European wanderers, said to be a caste of gypsies, who specialised in child-stealing and the manufacture of human freaks. They are also referred to as a criminal society that lasted until the 18th century, maiming children so they can be sold as professional beggars.\n\nThe \"Dacianos\" are cited to have inhabited parts of Spain for several hundred years and the term itself, along with \"gitanos,\" is a Spanish name for gypsies. They were also identified as the \"Comprachicos\" or \"Comprapequenos\" in Victor Hugo's \"The Man Who Laughs\". Hugo claimed that traces of this group can be found in the penal laws of Spain and England. Their origin is linked to gypsies called the Dacians, who settled Dacia, a Roman province and later a kingdom in present-day Hungary. Another theory claims that the \"Dacianos\" may have come from Dacca, a province of Pakistan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12091908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12091908", "title": "David Feuerwerker", "text": "David Feuerwerker\n\nDavid Feuerwerker (October 2, 1912 – June 20, 1980) was a French Jewish rabbi and professor of Jewish history who was effective in the resistance to German occupation the Second World War. He was completely unsuspected until six months before the war ended, when he fled to Switzerland and his wife and baby went underground in France. The French government cited him for his bravery with several awards. After the war, he and his wife re-established the Jewish community of Lyons. He settled in Paris, teaching at the Sorbonne. In 1966, he and his family, grown to six children, moved to Montreal, where he developed a department of Jewish studies at the University of Montreal.\n\nHe was born on October 2, 1912, at 11 Rue du Mont-Blanc, in Geneva, Switzerland. He was the seventh of eleven children. His father Jacob Feuerwerker was born in Sighet, now Sighetu Marmației, Maramureş, then Austria-Hungary, now Romania. His mother Regina Neufeld was born in Lackenbach, one of the famous seven Jewish communities or \"Sheva Kehillos\" (Siebengemeinden) in the Burgenland, Hungary, now Austria.\n\nIn 1925, he finished high school at the Rue Vauquelin Talmud Torah. In 1932, after his baccalauréat in sciences, lettres et philosophie, in Paris, he entered the French rabbinical seminary L'Ecole Rabbinique de France (Séminaire israélite de France, SIF), from which he graduated as a rabbi, on October 1, 1937. He became Diplomé de Langues Sémitiques anciennes (Sorbonne) as a specialist in Semitic languages. Among the languages he spoke were Aramaic and Syriac.\n\nFrom October 15, 1937, until September 1, 1939, he served in the French Army, in Alsace. After World War II broke out, he remained in the army until July 25, 1940. He was in charge of communications for a group of artillery of the 12th R.A.D. (Régiment d'Artillerie Divisionnaire) and chaplain of the 87th D.I.A. He was demobilized at Châteauroux on July 25, 1940.\n\nHe received the Croix de guerre 1939-1945 (France) with a bronze star.\n\nThe citation to the Order of the Brigade reads as follows:\n\nA second citation for the Croix de guerre 1939-1945 (France) was to the Order of the Army, with palm.\n\nIn 1940, he was nominated rabbi of three French Departments: Corrèze, Creuse, and Lot, based in Brive-la-Gaillarde. He lived at Villa du Mont-Blanc, avenue Turgot, in Brive. He created his first Study Circle (Cercle d'Etudes).\n\nThe Jewish population consisted of numerous refugees, including a large segment originating from Alsace and other regions occupied by the Nazi invader. He helped numerous of them to find a country of refuge, with the help of the oldest agency dealing with refugees in the United States, the HIAS. Among the destinations, Cuba. For himself, there was no thought of leaving France, since he was a community leader. He succeeded in liberating many internees from transit camps in France, including the camp at Gurs. He helped Benoit Mandelbrot in the pursuit of his studies.\n\nIn Brive with Edmond Michelet, later to be a senior minister under Charles de Gaulle, he participated actively in the French Résistance Movement \"Combat\" against the Nazi occupation. His name in the French Résistance was \"Jacques Portal\". He received the Croix du combattant volontaire 1939–1945, the Medaille Commémorative de la Guerre 1939–1945 with the bar \"France\".\n\nHe was to be made Knight (Chevalier) of the Legion of Honor (Légion d'honneur) for his military activities.\nThe Citation says:\n\nHis wife, Antoinette Feuerwerker (née Gluck), who had finished law school in Strasbourg before the war, and whom he married at the beginning of the war, participated with him in the underground. Combattant Volontaire de la Résistance, in 1944 she was awarded the French Liberation Medal (Médaille de la France Libérée), \"for her participation in the liberation of France\".\n\nSix months before the end of World War II, the Germans finally understood that the Rabbi of Brive was an active member of the Résistance. But the Rabbi got ahead of the occupier. After receiving reliable information that he was on the list of people to be arrested by the Gestapo, he decided to act. His arrest and his probable disappearance would not advance the cause he defended, day after day. He took the difficult decision, in agreement with his spouse, Antoinette Feuerwerker, to leave Brive. Only one destination was possible, Switzerland.\n\nAntoinette Feuerwerker obtained from Jacques Soustelle, a future minister of Charles de Gaulle and later his opponent, but then a leader of the Résistance, information how to reach clandestinely neutral territory, in Divonne-les-Bains. Once in his native city of Geneva, he was imprisoned by the Swiss authorities. But his life was not in immediate danger. Once Lyon had been liberated, in which he participated, he resumed the task of rebuilding the Jewish community of Lyon and of France, then in disarray.\n\nAntoinette Feuerwerker had remained in France for the last six months of the war. In order to evade the Germans and deportation, she went underground with her baby daughter, Atara. Once the war ended, the couple reunited in Lyon, for the adventure of reconstruction of the post-war French Judaism.\n\nHe participated in the liberation of Lyon as the captain-chaplain (Capitaine-Aumônier) of the French Forces of the Interior (Forces Françaises de l'Intérieur, F.F.I.), In Lyon in 1944. He became the chief rabbi of Lyon at the Liberation, rabbi of the Great Synagogue 13, Quai Tilsit, Lyon 2. He became also the captain-chaplain of the Place de Lyon and of the Alpine Division (27 brigade d'infanterie de montagne).\n\nHe spoke at the ceremony commemorating the Liberation of Lyon, at Place Bellecour.\n\nHis activities included liaising with the former Prime Minister of France, Édouard Herriot and the Roman Catholic primate of the Gauls, Cardinal Pierre-Marie Gerlier, later, recognized as a Righteous Among the Nations, by Yad Vashem, Jerusalem, Israel.\n\nHe published in Lyon, the first weekly Jewish newspaper since the war, called L'Unité (\"Unity\").\n\nIn 1946, he was elected rabbi in Neuilly-sur-Seine, near Paris, where he established a Cercle d'Etudes (Study Circle) at 12 rue Ancelle. The money destined for the famous boat Exodus 1947 was hidden, without his knowledge, by his wife, Antoinette Feuerwerker, under his bed, since no one would suspect him.\n\nIn 1948, he became rabbi of Les Tournelles, the Great Synagogue in Paris. In the Cercle d'Etudes du Marais he formed at 14 Place des Vosges, in the heart of Le Marais, the lecturers included: Raymond Aron, Robert Aron, Henri Baruk, le Père Marie-Benoît, Jean Cassou, Georges Duhamel, Marcel Dunan, Edmond Fleg, Henri Hertz, Louis Kahn, Joseph Kessel, Jacques Madaule, Arnold Mandel, Szolem Mandelbrojt, François Mauriac, Edmond Michelet, Pierre Morhange, François Perroux, le Père Michel Riquet, Pierre-Maxime Schuhl, André Spire, Jean Wahl, and many others.\n\nIn an assessment of \"European Jewry Ten Years After The War\", and of France, in particular, Arnold Mandel writes in 1956: \"Under the auspices of a very dynamic, forceful and militant rabbi David Feuerwerker a free debating club the Circle du Marais has been active for several years. Situated in one of the most beautiful squares in Paris, the Place des Vosges where the Victor Hugo Museum is located, the club, where the discussions are sometimes stormy, is one of the liveliest and most picturesque spots in the Jewish quarter of the French capital. It is Hyde Park with more spirit.\"\n\nRoger Berg writes en 1992 on the \"Cercle d'Études du Marais\": \"Sometime after the end of World War II, and before the sudden emergence of television in homes, study circles were created all over, the most prestigious among them was the Circle of the Marais of David Feuerwerker.\" The French Jewish Community paid tribute to him, on December 23, 1956, on the occasion of his twentieth year in the Rabbinate and of the two hundred and fiftieth Session of the Cercle d'Etudes du Marais, to as it specified, \"Honor the guide and the master whose activity is creative and efficient for the Jewish Community of France.\"\n\nHe was the head of Jewish Education (Directeur de l'instruction religieuse) (Paris) (1952), and vice president of the Council for Education and Jewish Culture in France (Conseil pour l'Education et la Culture Juive en France, CECJF) (1953).\n\nThe City of Paris, and in its name, the municipal council, in its session of December 14, 1957, awarded to him the Gold Medal of the City of Paris.\n\nOn diverse occasions, his talent as an orator was made to contribution. He participated on a regular basis to the Annual Commemoration at the Memorial of the Unknown Jewish Martyr (Mémorial du Martyr Juif Inconnu), with the attendance of civilian and military authorities. He gave the only funeral oration in French for the famous Rabbi Samuel Jacob Rubinstein of the Synagogue of the 10 rue Pavée in Paris 4 (Agoudas Hakehilos Synagogue). He spoke at a commemoration on the site of the camp at Drancy. He spoke also at the Grande Synagogue of Paris, rue de la Victoire in the 9th arrondissement of Paris.\n\nIn parallel to his rabbinical activities, he obtained a Licence ès Lettres and a Ph.D. in history from the Sorbonne. He taught at the Sorbonne EPHE 6ème section Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes from 1962 to 1965.\n\nAmong his many lectures, he spoke at the Societé de l'Histoire de Paris, and at the Institut Napoléon de Paris.\n\nHe published articles in, among other publications, \"La Revue Historique des Annales\"; \"Evidences\"; \"Bulletin de nos communautés\"; le \" Journal des communautés\".\n\nHe created the position of chief chaplain of the French Navy. There had been no Jewish chaplain of the French Navy before him. He was based at the Centre Marine Pépinière, 15 rue Laborde, in Paris 8. He went on special missions in Algeria and Tunisia (at the navy base in Bizerte).\n\nHe was also chaplain of prisons (La Petite Roquette), Lycées (Lycée Henri-IV, Lycée Fénelon) and hospitals (Hôtel-Dieu de Paris) in Paris.\n\nIn 1963, General Charles de Gaulle nominated him to be officer of the Legion of Honor (Légion d'honneur), for his work for the French Navy.\n\nHe introduced Hebrew as a foreign language for the French Baccalauréat, in 1954. He was the sole examiner for the city of Paris. To this day, it is offered as an option worldwide. Among those who were examined by him, and who remember vividly the questions, was Haïm Brezis, the future member of the French Academy of Sciences (Académie des sciences; France) and of the National Academy of Sciences (USA).\n\nHe was close to Pierre Mendès France, the former Prime Minister of France. He led the funerals of both his parents. He befriended and helped Aimé Pallière (1868–1949), who has remained as the Noahide (B'nei Noah) par excellence.\n\nAmong the many Jewish leaders he met, two made an everlasting impression, Rabbi Avrohom Yeshaya Karelitz (1878–1953), the Chazon Ish, in Bnei Brak, Israel, and the Hassidic leader of Belz, Rabbi Aharon Rokeach (1877–1957), called Reb Arele, also, living in Israel.\n\nAfter the Sinai War of 1956 Suez Crisis, when Moshe Dayan visited France, he represented the Jewish community, at a ceremony under the Arc of Triumph (Arc de Triomphe de l'Étoile), in Paris.\n\nHe became the rabbi of the Synagogue 15 Rue Chasseloup-Laubat (15th arrondissement of Paris).\n\nIn 1966, he moved with his family (six children: Atara, Natania, Elie, Hillel, Emmanuel, and Benjamine) to Montreal, Quebec, Canada. He lived at 5583 Woodbury Avenue, in Montreal, a minute away from l'Université de Montréal. His neighbour, René Lévesque, the future premier of Quebec, paid tribute to him, in his own name, and in the name of the Quebec Government, when he died. He became professor of sociology at the Université de Montréal, from 1966 to 1968, and then created at that university a department of Jewish Studies. He became judge in the rabbinical court (Beth Din) of that city, and a member of the Vaad Hair (Jewish Community Council of Montreal), beside the chief rabbi of Montreal, Pinhas Hirschprung.\n\nHe introduced Rabbi Moshe Feinstein (1895–1986), the halahic authority of his time, to the mayor of Montreal, Jean Drapeau at the Montreal City Hall. He was the editor of the French section of the \"Voice of the Vaad\" journal, called \"la Voix du Conseil\".\n\nAmong his many publications, he wrote the classic book on the emancipation of the French Jews, which is still cited today. For this work \"L'Emancipation des Juifs en France de l'Ancien Régime à la Fin du Second Empire\" (Albin Michel: Paris, 1976), he was awarded the Broquette-Gonin Prize for history from the Académie Française. A review of the book appeared on the front page of the newspaper \"Le Monde\".\n\nHe appeared on French and Canadian television and radio, was called often as an expert and lectured extensively. He had a special interest in Jewish music. He organized the appearance of the famous Hazzan Moshe Koussevitzky, at the Synagogue de la rue des Tournelles, in Paris. He also was a guest on several occasions on the radio show, animated by Alain Stanké, called \"La musique des nations\" of Radio-Canada.\n\nHe died in Montreal on June 20, 1980, and was buried in Sanhedria in Jerusalem, Israel.\n\n\nMany books refer to his activities, particularly for his work in the Resistance. Among them :\n\n\nAmong the articles written about David Feuerwerker are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36849151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36849151", "title": "Duvensee paddle", "text": "Duvensee paddle\n\nThe Duvensee paddle is the preserved part of a Mesolithic spade paddle, which was found during archaeological excavations of a Mesolithic dwelling area at Duvensee near Klinkrade (Herzogtum Lauenburg) Schleswig-Holstein, Germany in 1926. After a paddle from Star Carr in England, the Duvensee paddle is the second oldest known paddle and is considered among the earliest evidence for the use of water transport in the Mesolithic. The find is in the permanent exhibition of the Archaeological Museum Hamburg in Harburg, Hamburg.\n\nThe former bog Duvenseer Moor was located west of the village Duvensee in a young drift landscape. The area, of from north to south and from east to west, originally was an open, shallow lake which gradually developed to a marsh. From the late 18th century, the marsh was drained by ditches to make usable for agriculture. The peat of the bog was cut for fuel. By the early 19th century only a small body of open water remained, which was eventually completely drained. In 1923 the geologist Karl Gripp discovered by chance a Mesolithic settlement site while mapping the Duvenseer Moor. In the following years, the site was archaeologically investigated. Archaeologists Gustav Schwantes (1924–1927), 1946 Hermann Schwabedissen (1946) and finally Klaus Bokelmann (1966–1967) excavated the bog and documented many dwelling places. Besides numerous stone artifacts, the excavations provided only very few wooden tools, including the paddle found by Schwantes in 1926, located in a former bank zone near a residential area. The Duvensee paddle, found at , is one of the most outstanding finds from the Duvenseer Moor.\n\nThe paddle was found broken into several pieces, but except for a few flaws was extremely well preserved. The excellent preservation status of the paddle's wood was caused by a very low level of oxygen in the lake's humid sediments that quickly covered the paddle, which subsequently kept the growth of micro organisms to a minimum. Under normal oxygen conditions, fungi, bacteria, and insects would have caused a biological degradation of the wood in short time. Only the end of the handle is missing and a corner of the paddle's leaf (blade) is broken off. The paddle has a length of , a width of and a thickness of . The leaf has a long rectangular shape with widely rounded corners, having a length of about and an asymmetric connection to the shaft. The weight of the paddle is . The paddle was carved from the stem of a pine tree, with knots smoothed to the shaft. After recovery, the paddle was treated with an unknown waxy substance for conservation. In the 1920s the paddle was typologically dated by palynological evidence to the Mesolithic period. Radiocarbon dating in the 1980s on several hazelnut shells and remaining wood from the find spot gave a more precise date of around 7390 ± 80 BC. An accelerator mass spectrometry ( C-AMS) carried out in 2008 on two samples from the paddle yielded calibrated dates to 6527 ± 49 years BC and 6311 ± 38 years BC. Of note are the distinctly different C-ages of samples from urban findings.\n\nBefore 1925, elementary school teacher Ernst Bornhöf, from nearby Schiphorst, found two paddles which he incorporated in his school's prehistoric collection. Both paddles were transferred to the Helms-Museum in 1925. One is a large-leafed paddle of oak, with a weight of . It was C-dated in 2008 to 1121 ± 22 Before Present (around 829 AD ± 22 years), the period of transition from the early- to high Middle Ages. The second paddle is now lost, and only a few written records and a photo of the object exist. It was probably made from pine wood having an incised decoration on the shaft, which is not recognizable in the photo. Both paddles were recovered by Bornhöft without documenting any further detail of the archaeological context.\n\nThe results of the excavation enabled a reassessment of Mesolithic cultures in Northern Germany. Schwantes coined the name Duvensee group for the cultural group that extends over Schleswig-Holstein, Mecklenburg and parts of Brandenburg. After the excavation Schwantes published the Duvensee paddle as the oldest paddle known worldwide and simultaneously as the oldest, even if only indirect, evidence for the use of boats in the Mesolithic, which was widely viewed. This view has been tempered by the discovery of an older paddle from Star Carr.\n\nThe discovery of the Duvensee paddle aroused a huge interest in international archaeological communities, and the museum was asked for a copy of the paddle for the 1936 Summer Olympics. In the 1990s, the community of Duvensee thought about using the paddle in its new coat of arms, but after consultation with heralds, the idea was rejected. After the town won a \"Most Beautiful Village In 2005\" competition, a bronze replica of the paddle was cast and erected in front of the village hall.\n\n"}
{"id": "17736936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17736936", "title": "Eonothem", "text": "Eonothem\n\nIn stratigraphy and geology, an eonothem is the totality of rock strata laid down in the stratigraphic record deposited during a certain eon of the continuous geologic timescale. The eonothem is not to be confused with the eon itself, which is a corresponding division of geologic time spanning a specific amount of (millions of) years, during which rocks were formed that are classified within the eonothem. In practice, the rock column is discontinuous: \n\nEonothems, despite discontinuities (locally missing strata or unconformities), can be compared to others where the rock record is more complete and by correlation of points of correspondence be fixed appropriately within the eon. Eonothems are therefore useful as a broad chronostratigraphic unit, specifying approximate age within the timelines within the rock column. \n\nEonothems are subdivided into erathems and their smaller subdivisions within geology and paleobiology and their sub-fields, and a whole system of cross-disciplinary classification by strata is in place with oversight by the International Commission on Stratigraphy. Since oldest rocks are deposited first and lowest in a stratigraphic section, whether one is discussing the rock record is usually clear in context. (A fossil or feature present in the \"upper Phanerozoic\" eonothem (strata) would be discussed as being dated within the \"later Phanerozoic\" eon, whereas something found in the middle Phanerozoic could be discussing a layer, stage or the relative time.)\n\nEonothems are not often used in practice as expert dating estimates can be and usually are specified into the more refined timelines of smaller chronostratigraphic units, which can be subdivided in turn down to the many defined stages, the smallest units used in dating. (see the hierarchy of comparative units, five each for time division types and five for the rock record types.)\n\nEonothems have the same names as their corresponding eons, which means during the history of the Earth only four eonothems were formed. Oldest to newest these are the Hadean, Archean, Proterozoic, and Phanerozoic.\n\nGSSAs are defined by the International Commission on Stratigraphy and are used primarily for time dating rock layers older than 630 million years ago (mya), before a good fossil record exists. The record becomes spotty at about 542 mya, and the ICS may well have resort to defining additional GSSA's between the two dates. \n\nFor more recent periods, a Global Boundary Stratotype Section and Point (GSSP), largely based on research progress in geobiology and improved methods of fossil dating is used to define such boundaries. In contrast to GSSAs, GSSPs are based on important events and transitions within a particular stratigraphic section. In older sections, there is insufficient fossil record or well preserved sections to identify the key events necessary for a GSSP so GSSAs are defined based on fixed dates.\n\nEonothem derives from eon, a Latin transliteration from the koine Greek word (\"ho aion\") from the archaic (\"aiwon\"), and thema, \"that which is placed or laid down\", \"subject of a discourse\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10768709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10768709", "title": "Eric H. Cline", "text": "Eric H. Cline\n\nEric H. Cline (born September 1, 1960) is an author, historian, archaeologist, and professor of ancient history and archaeology at The George Washington University (GWU) in Washington DC, where he is Professor of Classics and Anthropology and the former Chair of the Department of Classical and Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, as well as Director of the GWU Capitol Archaeological Institute. He is also the advisor for the undergraduate archaeology majors, for which he was awarded the GWU Award for \"Excellence in Undergraduate Departmental Advising\" (2006). Cline is co-editor of the \"Bulletin of the American Schools of Oriental Research\" along with Christopher Rollston.\n\nCline received his B.A. in Classical Archaeology at Dartmouth College in 1982 and his M.A. in Near Eastern Languages and Literatures at Yale University in 1984.\n\nHe was awarded a Fulbright scholarship (Greece) in 1989 and in 1991 received his Ph.D. in Ancient History from the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nHe has served as a Trustee and Board Member (in addition to holding various other offices) for both the Archaeological Institute of America and the American Schools of Oriental Research.\n\nCline is an active field archaeologist with more than 30 seasons of excavation and survey experience in Israel, Egypt, Jordan, Cyprus, Greece, Crete, and the United States, including ten seasons at the site of Megiddo (biblical Armageddon) in Israel, from which he has recently retired after serving as Co-Director with Israel Finkelstein of Tel Aviv University. He is currently Co-Director, with Assaf Yasur-Landau of the University of Haifa, of the renewed excavations at Tel Kabri, Israel, which have been conducted since 2005. Recent discoveries by Prof. Cline and his team include the Near East's oldest wine cellar.\n\nConsidered for a Pulitzer Prize (2014), Cline has won awards for his books five times -- he is a two-time winner of the American Schools of Oriental Research \"Nancy Lapp Popular Book Award\" (2014 and 2018) and a three-time winner of the Biblical Archaeology Society's \"Best Popular Book on Archaeology\" Award (2001, 2009, and 2011). He has also won both national and local teaching awards, including the national \"Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching\" Award from the Archaeological Institute of America (2005) and the GWU \"Morton Bender Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching\" Award (2004). In addition, he has received the two highest awards given at GWU: one for teaching, the \"Oscar and Shoshana Trachtenberg Award for Teaching Excellence\" (2012), and the other for scholarly research, the \"Oscar and Shoshana Trachtenberg Award for Faculty Scholarship\" (2011). He is the first faculty member in GWU history to have won both awards. He has been nominated three times for the CASE US Professor of the Year (2008, 2009, and 2012). In May 2015, he was awarded an honorary doctorate from Muhlenberg College. In July 2015, he was named a member of the inaugural class of NEH Public Scholars, receiving the award for his next book project entitled \"Digging For Armageddon: The Quest to Unearth Biblical Megiddo\", which will be published by Princeton University Press. In Fall 2018, Dr. Cline was initiated into the world's first Archaeology Fraternity, Delta Iota Gamma (\"DIG\"). \n\nCline is the author or editor of 19 books and nearly 100 articles, including:\nCline has appeared in numerous television documentaries for ABC News, the National Geographic Channel, the Discovery Channel, the BBC, PBS, and the History Channel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53474892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53474892", "title": "Felix Hirsch", "text": "Felix Hirsch\n\nFelix Eduard Hirsch (Berlin, 7 February 1902 - 12 December 1982 Newtown, Pennsylvania) was a journalist for the Berliner Tageblatt and latterly; historian, librarian and Professor at Bard College in New York. As a journalist in Berlin, Hirsch was involved in the infamous libel case of Kurt Soelling.\n\nHirsch studied history at the University of Heidelberg where he graduated under German historian and political journalist, Hermann Oncken in 1924. After university, Hirsch moved to Berlin to pursue a career in journalism at the \"Berliner Tagelblatt\" and later became the editor at the Achtuhr Abendblatt. Following the rise of Nazism, Hirsch went into exile in America, and completed a librarian degree at Columbia University in 1936. He subsequently moved to Bard College, where he would teach history and expand the library.\n\nOn the 18th May 1932, Judge Kurt Soelling (born \"Seligsohn\"), the Chairman of the Berlin District Court, brought a libel action against Hirsch for an article he wrote in the Achtuhr Abendblatt that revealed Soelling's Jewish identity. Soelling was born into a Jewish family, but baptised a protestant in later life. He had been a member of the Social Democratic Party of Germany but in 1931, declared himself a Monarchist and became a prominent supporter of the burgeoning Nazi party and Adolf Hitler. Hirsch's article not only revealed the judge's Jewish identity, but alleged that he had converted to Protestantism to further his judicial career. Hirsch denounced Soelling as a \"dishonest politician\".\n\nThe case concluded on the 19th May 1932, with Soelling admitting that he was of Jewish descent, but that he had converted out of conviction. He explained his activities within the Nazi Party as an attempt to understand the organisation, and justified his use of the Nazi salute by the fact that everyone else at the rallies he attended had used it. Hirsch lost the libel case, and was ordered to pay damages of 500 Reichsmark.\n\nAccording to a dispatch issued by the Jewish Telegraphic Agency regarding the intriguing proceedings:\nThere was something of a sensation in court when it came out in the course of the proceedings that Judge Soelling is the son of the lay head of the Romberg Jewish Community, and that he had held over his baptism until after the death of a rich uncle who was a strictly observant Jew, so that he should not be cut out of his will, and that he had been baptised only after he had received the legacy.\n\nJustice Soelling was eventually disbarred and forbidden to practice law in Germany as a result of the Nazis' anti-Semitic reforms of 1933.\n\nHe married long-term friend, academic Elisabeth Feist in 1938, and they had two children together. Towards the end of his life, he suffered from Parkinson's disease. He died in 1982, at a retirement home in Newtown, Pennsylvania.\n\n"}
{"id": "27355279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27355279", "title": "Frederic C. Lane", "text": "Frederic C. Lane\n\nFrederic C. Lane (born November 23, 1900, in Lansing, Michigan–died October 14, 1984) was a historian who specialized in Medieval history with a particular emphasis on the Italian city and region of Venice.\n\nThe son of Alfred Church Lane and his wife Susanne Foster (Lauriat) Lane, Frederic Lane received his B.A. from Cornell University in 1921, his M.A. from Tufts College in 1922, where he wrote a master's thesis on \"The economic history of Europe during the first half of the sixteenth century\", and his Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1930 with a doctoral thesis on \"Venetian Ships and Shipbuilders of the Fifteenth and Sixteenth Centuries.\" He began his graduate studies at the University of Bordeaux in 1923-24, then studied at the University of Vienna in 1924, before going to Harvard University in 1925-26. While a Harvard graduate student he was John Thornton Kirkland Fellow for Research in Italy in 1927-28. He married Harriet Whitney Mirick on 4 June 1927. The couple had three children.\n\nHe was appointed instructor in history at the University of Minnesota in 1926, before being hired at The Johns Hopkins University as an instructor. There, he served as an assistant professor from 1931 to 1935. Promoted to associate professor in 1936, and full professor in 1946, he retired in 1966 as professor emeritus.\n\nLane's research interests focused on the Italian city-state of Venice. His research on the city as a maritime trading center, particularly with his research in economic history, helped establish a standard for examining the development and growth of other Italian city-states. He applied his skills and interests in economic and maritime history to write the history of American wartime shipping during World War II.\n\nFrom 1951 to 1954, he was assistant director, Social Science division, Rockefeller Foundation, and advised on European policy. He served as historian of the U.S. Maritime Commission, 1946-47.\nA member of the American Historical Association, he served as a member of council from 1959 to 1962, and was elected President of the American Historical Association for 1964-1965...\n\nActive in a number of other professional organizations, he was editor of the \"Journal of Economic History\", president of the Society for Italian Historical Studies in 1961-63, president of the American Historical Association in 1965, president of the Economic History Association 1956-58, and president of the International Economic History Association, 1966-1968. He was a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and of the Medieval Academy of America.\n\n\nInternational recognition of his scholarship included:\n"}
{"id": "11531297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11531297", "title": "Giuseppe Bianchini", "text": "Giuseppe Bianchini\n\nGiuseppe Bianchini (1704 in Verona – 1764 in Rome) was an Italian Oratorian, biblical, historical, and liturgical scholar. Clement XII and Benedict XIV, who highly appreciated his learning, entrusted him with several scientific labors. Bianchini had contemplated a large work on the texts of the Bible, \"Vindiciae Canonicarum Scripturarum Vulgatae latinae editionis\", which was to comprise several volumes, but only the first, in which, among other things, are to be found fragments of the \"Hexapla\" (Codex Chisianus), was published (Rome, 1740). Much more important is his \"Evangeliarium quadruplex latinae versionis antiquae\", etc., 2 vols. (Rome, 1749). Among his historical works may be mentioned the fourth volume which Bianchini added to the publication of his uncle, Francesco Bianchini, \"Anastasii bibliotheca rio Vitae Rom. Pontif.\" (Rome, 1735); he also published the \"Demonstratio historiae ecclesiasticae quadripartitae\" (Rome, 1752–54). The chief liturgical work of Bianchini is \"Liturgia antiqua hispanica, gothica, isidoriana, mozarabica, toletana mixta\" (Rome, 1746). He also undertook the edition of the works of B. Thomasius (Tomasi), but only one volume was issued (Rome, 1741).\n\nIn addition he investigated and wrote an account of the reported spontaneous human combustion of the Countess Cornelia Zangari (Verona, 1731, later republished at Rome).\n\nBianchini examined and described many of biblical manuscripts housed in Italy, such as: Minuscule 145, 169, 170, 171, 173, 174, 175, 176, 178, 179, 180, 196, 394, 397, 450, 627, 632, Lectionary 35, Lectionary 46, Lectionary 123, Lectionary 124, Lectionary 125, Lectionary 126, Lectionary 127, Codex Cyprius, Codex Angelicus, Codex Campianus, Codex Vaticanus 2066, Codex Curiensis, Codex Corbeiensis I, Codex Corbeiensis II, Codex Sangermanensis I.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2921650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2921650", "title": "Godfrey of Viterbo", "text": "Godfrey of Viterbo\n\nGodfrey of Viterbo (c. 1120 – c. 1196) was a Roman Catholic chronicler, either Italian or German. From an early age he displayed great activity as one of the clergy at the court of Conrad III and later Frederick I, accompanying the latter on many of his campaigns, and frequently fulfilling for him diplomatic missions.\n\nHe was probably an Italian by birth, although some authorities assert that he was a Saxon German like his imperial patrons. He evidently passed some of his early life at Viterbo in Italy, but he was educated at Bamberg, where he was taken by Lothair in 1133, gaining a good knowledge of Latin, possibly preparing for work in governmental service. Following his education, he began working in the Papal Chancellery. In the following years he was active in both governmental and ecclesiastical offices. About 1140 he became chaplain to the German king, Conrad III; but the greater part of his life was spent as secretary (\"notarius\") in the service of the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick I Barbarossa, who appears to have thoroughly trusted him, and who employed him on many diplomatic errands, traveling extensively throughout Europe, including over forty trips to Rome. Incessantly occupied, he visited Sicily, France, and Spain, in addition to many of the German cities, in the emperor's interests, and was by his side during several of the Italian campaigns. As a reward for his services at court, lands were bestowed on him in fief, probably in 1169, at Viterbo where he also spent his concluding days.\n\nBoth before and after Frederick's death in 1190 he enjoyed the favor of his son, the emperor Henry VI.\n\nIn the politico-ecclesiastical conflicts of his time -the Conflict of Investiture- he sided with the emperor, without, however, declaring himself inimical to the pope. He blames Pope Alexander's predecessor, Hadrian, for the schism (see Papal election, 1159), inasmuch as the latter had allied himself with the Byzantines and Normans against the emperor.\n\nHis works were for the most part composed during his many official journeys. In light of his duties he was familiar with the highest levels of authority in both circles and collected historical material, in his own words, for over forty years as notary and chaplain to the Emperor Frederick.\n\nAbout 1183 he compiled for the use of schools his \"Speculum regum,\" dedicated to his Staufian imperial patrons, father Frederick and son Henry. Here the title \"speculum\", 'mirror' is commonly used for works in the genre of \"mirrors for princes\", texts suitable for the royal dedicatees' education. In this case \"regum\" meaning 'of kings' indicates the intention, for future rulers. This history of the world beginning with the deluge intended to reconcile the Romans with the Germans.\n\nIn his work \"Liber universalis\" 'universal book', he chronicles world history from the creation to the time of Henry VI. Godfrey's \"Memoria seculorum\", or \"Liber memorialis\", a world chronicle dedicated to Henry VI, professes to record the history of the world from the creation until 1185 when it was completed. It is written partly in prose and partly in verse.\n\nThe \"Memoria seculorum\" was very popular during the Middle Ages, and has been continued by several writers. A revision of this work was drawn up by Godfrey himself from 1185 as \"Pantheon\", or \"Universitalis libri qui chronici appellantur\", a history of the world which enjoyed an unmerited fame during the Middle Ages. The author borrowed from Otto of Freising, but the earlier part of his chronicle is full of imaginary occurrences. \"Pantheon\" was first printed in 1559, and extracts from it are published by L. A. Muratori in the \"Rerum Italicarum scriptores, tome vii\" (Milan, 1725). The author, delighting as he does in fables, has gathered much material for the history of folklore.\n\nA work considered particularly valuable is the \"Gesta Friderici I\" (\"(res) gesta\" is Latin for 'deeds', a common title for biographical works), verses relating events in the emperor's career from 1155 to 1180. Concerned mainly with affairs in Italy, the poem tells of the sieges of Milan, of Frederick's flight to Pavia in 1167, of the treaty with Pope Alexander III at Venice, and of other stirring episodes with which the author was intimately acquainted, and many of which he had witnessed. This metrical account of the achievements of Barbarossa, though not free from confusion, contains some valuable information.\n\nAttached to the \"Gesta Friderici\" is the \"Gesta Heinrici VI\", a shorter poem which is often attributed to Godfrey, although Wilhelm Wattenbach and other authorities think it was not written by him.\n\nAnother minor work is \"Denominatio regnorum imperio subiectorum\", a 'denomination of kings subject to the empire'.\n\n"}
{"id": "23183739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23183739", "title": "Haggai Erlich", "text": "Haggai Erlich\n\nHaggai Erlich (born 1942) is professor emeritus at Tel Aviv University and an academic adviser at the Open University of Israel where he is the head of Middle Eastern History studies. He is the Landau Prize recipient for 2010 in African Studies.\n\nHaggai Erlich was born to a working-class family in Tel Aviv, was a member of the leftist youth movement Hashomer Hatsair and studied in the Oriental Class of Tel Aviv municipality secondary school D. He served in the Nahal paratroops battalion and as a reservist fought in the battle on Jerusalem in 1967 Six-Day War. He composed some of the paratroops' popular songs, some of which are still in circulation. Between 1959 and 1969 he was one of Israel leading high-jumpers and represented the country in international athletic meetings.\n\nIn 1989 in the World Masters Games in Denmark, he came second in the 45 – 50 category, clearing 1.65m. In the 1960s he played basketball in Israel's premier league and in 1997 won the academic staff tennis championship.\n\nErlich completed his B.A. studies in Tel Aviv University in General History and History of the Middle East and Africa, and his M.A. studies in the Hebrew University under the guidance of Professor Gabriel Baer (cum laude, 1969). His thesis was on the tribes of Yemen and their role in the civil war. In 1973 he received his Ph.D. from the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London, where he wrote his thesis on the History of Ras Alula, Ethiopia's national hero, under the guidance of professors Richard Gray and Edward Ullendorff.\n\nErlich taught in Tel Aviv University from 1973 till his retirement in 2004. He served there as head of graduate studies in the Middle Eastern History Department, School of History. He was a visiting professor at Concordia, Montreal, 1978–1979, Georgetown University, 1985–1986 and 1992–1992, and in San Diego State University, 1999-2000. He is an associate editor of Northeast African Studies, Michigan, a member of the International Committee of Ethiopian Studies, the \"field expert\" on Islam and the Middle East in Encyclopaedia Aethiopica, Hamburg, and the head of the editorial board of the journal of Israel's Association of Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies (MEISA), Hamizrah Hehadash. From 1983 he has headed the development of Middle Eastern studies in the Open University of Israel.\n\nIn 2004 Erlich retired as emeritus from Tel Aviv University and intensified his involvement in the Open University. The program he developed from 1983, based on ten volumes of introduction he wrote himself, was recognized in 2007 by the Higher Education Council of Israel as a BA program in \"the Middle East and its Cultures\". It combines the study of the history of Arab-Islamic societies with those of other societies in the region. Erlich heads a committee at the Open University, tasked with facilitating studies for Arab students; in this context, he is also in charge of translating ten of the courses in various fields into Arabic. In the Open University he also developed Ethiopian studies and for the purpose wrote three introductory books in Hebrew.\nErlich studies focus on Ethiopia, on the modern Middle East, and on the connections and the relations between these histories. His studies on Ethiopia deal mainly with the internal ethnic dynamism between Tigreans and Amhara and the country's political culture as a factor in Ethiopia's survival in facing European imperialism. His studies on the Middle East deal mainly with the development of higher education and the role of students in politics. His studies on the relations between Ethiopia and the Middle East – a field he is pioneering — reconstruct the history of major strategic meeting points and focus mainly on the conceptual Islamic-Christian dimensions and the religious historical legacies which inspired and continue to influence those relations.\n\nA biography of Ethiopia's national hero, Ras Alula, the general and statesman who played a central role in Ethiopia's struggle for survival in facing late 19th century imperialism. In this context the book analyzes Ethiopia's relations with Egypt, the Mahdist Sudan, the Italians, and the British during the Scramble for Africa, and attempts at explaining Ethiopia's victories. In the same context it analyzes Ethiopia's home affairs of the time, mainly Tigrean-Shoan relations, the establishment of Asmara and late 19th century Eritrean history.\n\nAnalysis of the birth of the Eritrean nationalist movement and fight for independence. It focuses mainly on the internal struggles of the Eritreans as they were interwoven with two simultaneous developments: the internal affairs of Ethiopia during the time of Haile Sellassie and the beginning of Mangistu's period; and the relevant developments in the Arab world and the Arab-Israeli conflict of the time.\n\nA collection of twelve articles which had been published in various journals, all revolving around the Ethiopian modern experience, and which in sequence constitute an attempt at understanding the country's unique success at maintaining independence.\n\nThis book follows two dimensions in the history of Egypt's modernization. One is the\ndevelopment and the evolution of the University as both a national concept and an educational institution. It reconstructs the role of politicians in shaping higher education from the 1908 establishment of the Egyptian University to Anwar Sadat’s revolutionary expansion of the education system. The other dimension is the role of students in politics. The book analyses the influence of the higher education system on the creation of the students as an active sociopolitical class; it surveys the students’ role in major historic junctures, and describes the pivotal role of the educated youth in the making of the country's modern politics.\n\nA five volume history of the Middle East from 18th century developments in the Ottoman Empire to World War I, and the establishment of the modern states of the Middle East. The narrative follows stages of modernization culminating with the emergence of modern nationalists ideas and movements, and is accompanied by hundreds of short informative articles and hundreds of authentic illustrations.\n\nA discussion of the relations between Ethiopia and the Oriental Middle East from medieval times to the present. It follows two interwoven aspects. One is the reconstruction of major junctures of political connections and strategic collisions. The second is the analysis and evolution of the basic mutual concepts and images which were shaped in earlier formative stages and have been reshaped in later confrontations to be transmitted to the conceptual reservoir of today's Ethiopian, Egyptian and Arab nationalism.\n\nFive volumes surveying the history of the Middle East from the aftermath of World War I to the end of World War II. The series analyses the \"Parliamentarian\" 1920s and \"The Crisis of the 1930s\" focusing mainly on the dynamism of inter-generational tensions as a key to sociopolitical and ideological changes. In so doing the series surveys developments in each of the major countries, but also attempts to narrate the history of the region as the home of a common Islamic-Arab civilization. Volume 5 (\"The Middle East During World War II\", 2003) analyzes the same inter-generational tensions in Arab societies during the war, the anti-British activities on the one hand and the final victory (as of 1942) on the other hand of the elite groups leading to the emergence of the rather conservative Arab League (1945).\n\nA history of Ethiopia from the early medieval Aksumite dynasty to the 1990s as analyzed mainly along the competition between centralizing concepts and institutions (“the Amahara thesis”) on the one hand, and the pluralistic, de-centralist concepts of culture and politics (“the Tigrean thesis”) on the other hand. The narrative also attempts to explain the ability of this Christian dominated society to retain, over that long history, its political sovereignty in facing both imperial Islam and Western imperialism.\n\nA discussion of modern Middle Eastern history as developing around the role of higher education (and its various architects) in shaping new “political generations” in Arab societies, and the role of such “political generations” - mainly those of 1906, 1919, 1935, and the 1970s — in offering and struggling for renewed interpretations of both politics and identity.\n\nThis book was edited by Erlich with Israel Gershoni. It is a collection of 18 articles contributed by some of the world's leading scholars of Egypt, Sudan and Ethiopia, of Islam and of Eastern Christianity. These articles were originally presented in a 1997 international conference held in Tel Aviv University and in Jerusalem under the same title. The introduction, written with co-editor (and co-organizer) Professor Israel Gershoni, presents the main theme of the book: the role of the River Nile in communicating, but also separating between its various riparian cultures and societies. The various chapters discuss the main Nile countries’ common world of inter-relations, mutual images and myths, their image in medieval and modern Europe, and the various historical backgrounds to today's crisis of the Nile's waters.\n\nA history of sixteen centuries of relations is analyzed, revolving around dimensions of mutual dependence: Ethiopia being the main source of Egypt's Nile, and Egypt being the main source of Ethiopia's Christianity. The complexities of good neighborliness and conflicts, of suspicions, myths and wars, of religious and cultural interpretations of the “self” and the “other”, is discussed from the 4th century creation of Ethiopia as a bishopric of the Egyptian Church to today's Egyptian and Ethiopian anxieties over the future of the Nile waters.\n\nThis book was written by Erlich with Steven Kaplan and Hagar Salamon. It is a detailed history of Ethiopia's religious history, and a discussion of the Ethiopian interpretation of each of its three belief systems, their local institutions, and their inter-relations. An introduction (by H. Erlich, the general editor) summarizes the flexible, non-essentialist nature of Ethiopia's religiosity. “Christianity” (by Professor Steven Kaplan) analyzes the history and many faces of the country's hegemonic religion. “Islam” (H. Erlich) discusses its role among ethnic minorities and on the margins of society, and ends with its apparent revolution and penetration into the core as of the 1990s. “Judaism” (by Hagar Salamon) surveys “Beta Israel’s\" culture against the historical Ethiopian context.\n\nThe first volume of the Open University's new series \"The Middle East in Our Time\". The series’ twelve volumes, authored by leading Israeli scholars (with H. Erlich as chief editor) will cover the history of the region's various states from 1945 to the 1980s, (each volume concluding with a succinct analysis to 2000). \"The Older Sister\"’s introduction surveys Egypt's leading role in shaping modern developments in the Middle East and in influencing the all-regional periodization of the post World War II era. The book’s three parts are devoted to a detailed analysis of “The End of the Parliamentarian Era, 1945–1952”, “Nasser and Nasserism, 1952–1970”, and “Sadat – The Return to Egyptianism, 1970 - 1981”. The pivotal theme is the ever-dynamic interplay between the various social and political forces in Egypt and the country's various identities – Islamic, Arab, Egyptian.\n\nA history of modern relations between the Wahhabi-Islamic state and Ethiopia, beginning in the 1930s and culminating in today's radicalization of Islam in the region and Ethiopia's transformation from a “Christian island” into a multicultural state. The narrative follows the development of strategic relations ever since Mussolini's conquest of Ethiopia through the Ogaden War and local activities of the terrorism networks of the 1990s. The conceptual dilemmas of Ethiopia's Christian establishments, of Ethiopia's Muslim communities and of the Saudis are analyzed as they have developed along and influenced these processes.\n\nAn analytical survey of Ethiopia's history from early Aksumite period to today's developments. The first part of the book discusses the medieval foundations of the country's political culture; the second part focuses on the late 19th century victory of Ethiopia over both European imperialists and local neighbors; and the third part explains the price paid for these formative victories – the entrenchment of traditional structures and concepts as shapers of Ethiopia to 1974. The fourth part analyzes the communist revolution under Mengistu Haile Mariam (to 1991) as a recycling of the medieval siege culture in a new cloak, and argues that today's opening to both the outside world as well as to internal diversity and free economy is the first authentic revolution in the country's history.\n\nTracing the modern history of the region where the two religions first met, and where they are engaged now in active confrontation, this book surveys the political developments in the Horn of Africa since the late nineteenth century. The analysis combines the factual changes with an exploration of the ways in which religious formulations of the nearby \"other\" influenced policymaking and were also reshaped by it. It demonstrates how initial Islamic and Christian concepts remain directly relevant in the region today.\n\nA detailed analysis of the development of higher education in the region combined with discussion of the rule of students in changing the Middle East along eight major historical junctures, from the rise of modern nationalist movements to the Arab Spring.\n\nA discussion of the special relations between what used to be a Christian empire and the Jewish state of Israel. Analyzing the legacies of old religious messages and their influence on modern strategic relations the book, based on new archival material, sheds new lights on an African-Middle Eastern drama which began with great promise and ended disastrously in 1973.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4948387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4948387", "title": "Hans Svaning", "text": "Hans Svaning\n\nHans Svaning (1503 – 20 September 1584) was a Danish historian.\n"}
{"id": "13875943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13875943", "title": "Helmut Piirimäe", "text": "Helmut Piirimäe\n\nHelmut Piirimäe (September 8, 1930 – 21 August 2017) was a prominent Estonian historian. He was \"professor emeritus\" of University of Tartu, and an honorary doctor of University of Uppsala.\n\nPiirimäe researched Estonian history under the Swedish Empire in the 17th century, but also the Enlightenment in the 18th century, especially the French Revolution.\n\nHelmut Piirimäe was married to art historian Krista Piirimäe. They have three sons and a daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "1186934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1186934", "title": "Hybrid word", "text": "Hybrid word\n\nA hybrid word or hybridism is a word that etymologically derives from at least two languages.\n\nThe most common form of hybrid word in English combines Latin and Greek parts. Since many prefixes and suffixes in English are of Latin or Greek etymology, it is straightforward to add a prefix or suffix from one language to an English word that comes from a different language, thus creating a hybrid word.\n\n\nModern Hebrew abounds with non-Semitic derivational affixes, which are applied to words of both Semitic and non-Semitic descent. The following hybrid words consist of a Hebrew-descent word and a non-Semitic descent suffix:\n\n\nExamples of Modern Hebrew hybrid words with an international prefix include:\n\nSome hybrid words consist of both a non-Hebrew word and a non-Hebrew suffix of different origins:\n\nModern Hebrew also has a productive derogatory prefixal shm-, which results in an 'echoic expressive'. For example, um shmum (), literally 'United Nations shm-United Nations', was a pejorative description by Israel's first Prime Minister, David Ben-Gurion, of the United Nations, called in Modern Hebrew \"umot meukhadot\" () and abbreviated um (). Thus, when an Israeli would like to express his impatience with or disdain for philosophy, s/he can say \"filosófya-shmilosófya\" (). Modern Hebrew shm- is traceable back to Yiddish, and is found in English as well as shm-reduplication. This is comparable to the Turkic initial m-segment conveying a sense of 'and so on' as in Turkish \"dergi mergi okumuyor\", literally 'magazine \"shmagazine\" read:NEGATIVE:PRESENT:3rd.person.singular', i.e. '(He) doesn't read magazine, journals or anything like that'.\n\nIn Japanese, hybrid words are common in kango – words formed from kanji characters – where some of the characters may be pronounced using Chinese pronunciations (\"on'yomi,\" from Chinese morphemes), and others in the same word are pronounced using Japanese pronunciations (\"kun'yomi,\" from Japanese morphemes). These are known as \"jūbako\" (重箱) or \"yutō\" (湯桶) words, which are themselves examples of this kind of compound (they are autological words): the first character of \"jūbako\" is read using \"on'yomi\", the second \"kun'yomi\", while it is the other way around with \"yutō\". Other examples include 場所 \"basho\" \"place\" (\"kun-on\"), 金色 \"kin'iro\" \"golden\" (\"on-kun\") and 合気道 \"aikidō\" \"the martial art Aikido\" (\"kun-on-on\"). Some hybrid words are neither \"jūbako\" nor \"yutō\" (縦中横 \"tatechūyoko\" (\"kun-on-kun\")). Foreign words may also be hybridized with Chinese or Japanese readings in slang words such as 高層ビル \"kōsōbiru\" \"high-rise building\" (\"on-on-katakana\") and 飯テロ \"meshitero\" \"food terrorism\" (\"kun-katakana\").\n\n"}
{"id": "15674564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15674564", "title": "Ibn Bassam", "text": "Ibn Bassam\n\nIbn Bassam or Ibn Bassam Al-Shantarini (1058-1147) was a poet and historian from al-Andalus. He was born in Santarém (sometimes spelled Shantarin or Xantarin) and died in 1147.\n\nIbn Bassam describes how the incessant invasions of the Castillans forced him to run away from Santarém in Portugal, \"the last of the cities of the west,\" after seeing his lands ravaged and his wealth destroyed, a ruined man with no possessions save his battered sword.\n\nEspecially well-known is his anthology \"Dhakhira fî mahâsin ahl al-Gazira\" (The Treasury concerning the Merits of the People of Iberia) one of the most important sources of information in the field of history, literature and culture of the Almoravid dynasty. It was edited in eight volumes by Ihsan Abbas, written in rhymed prose, many of its biographies are contemporary and filled out with details taken from the Kitab al-Matin of Ibn Hayyan. The parts taken from that book are easily distinguishable, because Ibn Bassam prefixes the words qala Ibn Hayyan (\"Ibn Hayyan says\") and concludes the extract with intaha kalam Ibn Hayyan (\"here ends lbn Hayyan's words\").\n"}
{"id": "2026389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2026389", "title": "Ica stones", "text": "Ica stones\n\nThe Ica stones are a collection of andesite stones found in Ica Province, Peru that bear a variety of diagrams. Some of them supposedly have depictions of dinosaurs, and what is alleged to be advanced technology. These are recognised as modern curiosities or hoaxes.\n\nFrom the 1960s Javier Cabrera Darquea collected and popularized the stones, obtaining many of them from a farmer named Basilio Uschuya. Uschuya, after claiming them to be real ancient artifacts, admitted to creating the carvings he had sold and said he produced a patina by baking the stone in cow dung.\n\nThe stones are composed of andesite. They vary in size from 3x2.5x1.5 cm to 40 cm. As a result of weathering, they have developed a thin patina. It consists of a weathering rind in which weathering has turned some of the feldspar into clay, resulting in a softer material, rated 3 to 4 on the Mohs scale of mineral hardness, which can be scratched.\n\nThey are shallowly engraved with a variety of images, some directly incised, others by removing the background, leaving the image in relief. The images vary from simple pictures on one side of a pebble, up to designs of great complexity. Some of the designs are in styles which can be recognized as belonging to the Paracas, Nazca, Tiwanaku, or Inca cultures.\n\nSome of the images are of flowers, fish, or living animals of various sorts. Others appear to depict scenes which would be anachronistic in pre-Columbian art, such as knowledge of dinosaurs, advanced medical works and maps.\n\nArchaeological remains show evidence of Peruvian cultures going back for several thousand years. At some later stages, the whole of modern Peru was united into a single political and cultural unit, culminating in the Inca Empire, followed by the Spanish conquest. At other stages, areas such as the Ica Valley, a habitable region separated from others by desert, developed a distinctive culture of its own.\n\nExcavations in Ica Province were carried out in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries by scholars such as Max Uhle, Julio C. Tello, Alfred L. Kroeber, William Duncan Strong and John Howland Rowe. None of them reported the discovery of carved andesite stones. Nevertheless, carved stones which had been looted by \"huaqueros\", grave robbers, began to be offered for sale to tourists and amateur collectors.\n\nOne of these collectors was Santiago Agurto Calvo, an architect by profession, who was Rector of the National University of Engineering in Lima. He organised searches in ancient cemeteries, and in August 1966 found such a stone in the Toma Luz sector, Callango district, in Ica Valley. The context corresponded to the Tiwanaku culture. He reported his discovery to the Regional Museum in Ica city, and was accompanied on further expeditions by its curator, the archaeologist Alejandro Pezzia Assereto. In September 1966 in Uhle Hill cemetery, De la Banda sector, Ocucaje District, they found, for the first time, an engraved stone with certain provenance in a tomb of the Paracas culture. This stone was a fairly flat and irregular in shape, approximately 7 x 6 x 2 cm in size. On it was carved a design which might be abstract, or could be taken as a flower with eight petals. Agurto published the discovery in a Lima newspaper.\n\nPezzia continued to search. In the \"San Evaristo\" cemetery in Toma Luz, he found a carved stone of similar size to the previous one, with a realistic image of a fish. The context dated the tomb to the Middle Horizon (600-1000 A.D.). In a grave not far away in the same cemetery, he found a stone with the fairly realistic design of a llama, in a context typical of the Ica culture. In 1968, Pezzia published his findings, including drawings and descriptions.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1966, Peruvian physician Javier Cabrera Darquea was presented with a stone that had a carved picture of a fish, which Cabrera believed to be of an extinct species. Cabrera's father had begun a collection of similar stones in the 1930s, and based on his interest in Peruvian prehistory, Cabrera began collecting more. He initially purchased more than 300 from two brothers, Carlos and Pablo Soldi, who also collected pre-Incan artifacts, who claimed they had unsuccessfully attempted to interest archaeologists in them. Cabrera later found another source of the stones, a farmer named Basilio Uschuya, who sold him thousands more. Cabrera's collection burgeoned, reaching more than 11,000 stones in the 1970s. Cabrera published a book, \"The Message of the Engraved Stones of Ica\" on the subject, discussing his theories of the origins and meaning of the stones. In this he argued that the stones show \"that man is at least 405 million years old\" and for what he calls \"gliptolithic\" man, humans from another planet, and that \"Through the transplantation of cognitive codes to highly intelligent primates, the men from outer space created new men on earth.\" The Ica stones achieved greater popular interest when Cabrera abandoned his medical career and opened a museum to feature several thousand of the stones in 1996.\n\nIn 1973, during an interview with Erich von Däniken, Uschuya stated he had faked the stones that he had sold. In 1975 Uschuya and another farmer named Irma Gutierrez de Aparcana confirmed that they had forged the stones they gave to Cabrera by copying the images from comic books, text books and magazines. Later, Uschuya recanted the forging story during an interview with a German journalist, saying that he had claimed they were a hoax to avoid imprisonment for selling archaeological artifacts. In 1977, during the BBC documentary \"Pathway to the Gods\", Uschuya produced an Ica stone with a dentist's drill and claimed to have produced a fake patina by baking the stone in cow dung. That same year, another BBC documentary was released with a skeptical analysis of Cabrera's stones, and the new-found attention to the phenomenon prompted Peruvian authorities to arrest Uschuya, as Peruvian law prohibits the sale of archaeological discoveries. Uschuya recanted his claim that he had found them and instead admitted they were hoaxes, saying \"Making these stones is easier than farming the land.\" He engraved the stones using images in books and magazines as examples and knives, chisels and a dental drill. He also said that he had not made all the stones. He was not punished, and continued to sell similar stones to tourists as trinkets. The stones continued to be made and carved by other artists as forgeries of the original forgeries.\n\nExcept in the rare cases that provenance is known, there is no reliable way of dating the stones. Thus, a stone of uncertain origin can never be used to establish a conclusion which would otherwise be considered unlikely. The stones have been used by some creationists to claim that humans lived in proximity with dinosaurs, which contradicts evidence that the extinction of dinosaurs predates mankind by approximately 66 million years. At least one official creationist source has rejected their use as an argument for creationism. Believers in ancient astronauts have also attempted to use the stones as evidence of a lost, advanced civilization brought to man from other planets and mytho-historians have claimed them as evidence that ancient myths are accurate histories, neither of which is a position supported in the scientific or academic communities.\n\nIn his \"Encyclopedia of Dubious Archaeology: From Atlantis To The Walam Olum\", archaeologist Ken Feder commented \"The Ica Stones are not the most sophisticated of the archaeological hoaxes discussed in this book, but they certainly rank up there as the most preposterous.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23133865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23133865", "title": "Jespersen's Cycle", "text": "Jespersen's Cycle\n\nJespersen's Cycle (JC) is a series of processes in historical linguistics, which describe the historical development of the expression of negation in a variety of languages, from a simple pre-verbal marker of negation, through a discontinuous marker (elements both before and after the verb) and in some cases through subsequent loss of the original pre-verbal marker. The term originated in the 1979 publication \"Typology of Sentence Negation\" by Swedish linguist Östen Dahl. Dahl coined it in recognition of the pioneering work of Otto Jespersen in identifying this pattern of language change.\n\nThe linguist Otto Jespersen began his book \"Negation in English and Other Languages\" with the words:\nThe process has since been described for many languages in many different families, and is particularly noticeable in languages which are currently at stage II (both the original and the additional word obligatory) such as French, Welsh, and some dialects of Arabic and Berber.\n\nThe fact that different languages can be seen to be in different stages of the process, and that sometimes, as Jespersen says, the whole process can begin again after renewal, prompted Dahl to name the process \"Jespersen's cycle\". The observation was however made earlier, most noticeably by Antoine Meillet, who used the term 'spiral'.\n\nThere are three stages, labelled I, II and III:\n\nIn Stage I, negation is expressed by a single pre-verbal element:\n\n(Examples from different periods of French, all from ):\n\nIn Stage II both a preverbal and a postverbal element are obligatory:\n\nIn Stage III the original preverbal element becomes optional or is lost altogether:\n\nFrench is well known to use a bipartite negative, e.g. \"Je \"ne\" sais \"pas\"\" = \"I don't know\", lit. \"I not know not\". Welsh has a very similar pattern, \"\"Ni\" wn i \"ddim\", literally \"Not know I nothing\". In both languages, the colloquial register is at a more advanced stage in the cycle, and the first part (\"ne\" or \"ni(d)\") is very frequently omitted. In formal Welsh registers, by contrast, \"ni(d)\" tends to be used without \"ddim\". This is not true of formal registers of modern French, but the use of \"ne\" on its own survives in certain set expressions (e.g. \"n'importe quoi\": \"no matter what/anything\") and with certain verbs (e.g. \"Elle ne cesse de parler\": \"She doesn't stop talking\").\n\nEnglish too passed through Jespersen's cycle early in its history: for example \"I didn't see\" would be expressed in Old English as \"ic ne seah\", then strengthened with the word \"nawiht\" \"no thing\" as Middle English \"I ne saugh nawiht\", finally leading to Early Modern English \"I saw not\". The same development occurred in the other Germanic languages such as German and Dutch, which produced their respective postposed negative particles \"nicht\" and \"niet\", first duplicating and eventually ousting the original preposed negative particle \"ne / ni\". English’s do-support and contraction of “do not” to “don’t” in colloquial speech could be argued as moving English back toward Stage I of Jespersen’s Cycle—“I didn’t see”.\n\nCentral Atlas Tamazight, a Berber language spoken principally in Central Morocco, uses a bipartite negative construction (e.g. 'he didn't go out' — the underlined elements together convey the negative) which apparently was modeled after proximate Arabic varieties.\n\nThe Chamic languages, spoken in parts of Cambodia, Vietnam, and Hainan, may also be undergoing Jespersen's cycle.\n\nItalian and the various Italian regional languages are also undergoing a similar transformation, where even all three stages can be seen in action at once: The standard language is (still?) generally at stage I, with, e. g., \"Non gliel'ho detto\" (I haven't told him/her). This can become \"Non gliel'ho mica detto\" colloquially (stage II) and also (stage III) \"Gliel'ho mica detto\" (sub-standard) or \"Mica gliel'ho detto\" (colloquial), \"mica\" originally meaning \"in the least\". In Western Lombard, the archaic \"no l'hoo vist\" (I haven't seen him/it) has since long become \"l'hoo minga vist\" or \"l'hoo vist no\" with no change in meaning.\n\n"}
{"id": "4280000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4280000", "title": "John Habakkuk", "text": "John Habakkuk\n\nSir Hrothgar John Habakkuk (13 May 1915 – 3 November 2002) was a British economic historian.\n\nHabakkuk was born in Barry, Vale of Glamorgan, Wales, the son of Evan and Anne Habakkuk. He was named \"Hrothgar\" after Hroðgar in \"Beowulf\", which his father was reading at the time of his birth. However, he came to be known as John when he started to travel to the United States, and when he was knighted he found it easier to call himself \"Sir John\" than \"Sir Hrothgar\". His surname was assumed by a relatively recent forebear after the prophet Habakkuk.\n\nHe was educated at Barry County School and St John's College, Cambridge (scholar and Strathcona Student, starred first class degree in History 1936). (He was not, as sometimes erroneously stated, connected with Jesus College, Cambridge). He began to study for a PhD under John Clapham, but his progress was interrupted by the Second World War. In 1938, he was elected a Fellow of Pembroke College, Cambridge, a position he held until 1950. He worked in the Foreign Office 1939–42 and the Board of Trade 1942–46, during which period he still found time to carry out research at the Public Record Office and in the archives of country houses. After World War II, he was from 1946 until 1950 Director of Studies and Librarian of the college and Lecturer in the Faculty of Economics. In 1973, Pembroke elected him to an Honorary Fellowship. From 1950 until 1960, he was editor, with Michael Postan, of \"The Economic History Review\".\n\nIn 1950, he moved to Oxford, where he would remain for the rest of his life. At the age of just thirty-five he had been appointed Chichele Professor of Economic History in the University of Oxford and Professorial Fellow of All Souls College. He held this appointment until 1967, when he became Principal of Jesus College. He also served as Vice-Chancellor of Oxford University (1973–77) and Pro-Vice-Chancellor (1977–84). He retired in 1984 and was Ford Lecturer in the following year. All Souls re-elected him to a fellowship in 1988. He was also President of University College, Swansea from 1975 until 1984 and an honorary fellow of the college from 1991. He was Visiting Professor at Harvard University 1954/5 and at University of California, Berkeley (Ford Research Professor) 1962/3.\n\nHabakkuk was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 1965 and a member of the American Philosophical Society in 1966. He was appointed Knight Bachelor in 1976. In the same year he began a four-year term as President of the Royal Historical Society. He was awarded the degree of Doctor of Letters \"honoris causa\" by the Universities of Wales (1971), Cambridge (1973), Pennsylvania (1975), Kent (1978), and Ulster (1988).\n\nHe was a member of the Advisory Council on Public Records 1958–70, the Social Science Research Council 1967–71, the National Libraries Committee 1968–69, the Administrative Board of the International Association of Universities 1975–84, and the Royal Commission on Historical Manuscripts 1978–90. He was Chairman of the Committee of Vice Chancellors and Principals of the Universities of the United Kingdom 1976–77, the Advisory Group on London Health Services 1980–81, and the Oxfordshire District Health Authority 1981–84. He was president of the Royal Historical Society (1977–1981),\n\nHabakkuk was married to his former student, Mary Richards (died 2002), in 1948. They had a son and three daughters. He died, from renal failure and myelodysplasia, at the house of one of his daughters, Little Orchard, Scot Lane, Chew Stoke, in Somerset, England, on 3 November 2002.\n\n\nHabakkuk thesis\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55585278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55585278", "title": "Joseph Manning (historian)", "text": "Joseph Manning (historian)\n\nJoseph Gilbert (J.G.) Manning is a professor of history at Yale University. Manning holds the William K. and Marilyn M. Simpson Chair in History & in Classics. He is a Senior Research Scholar at Yale Law School, and a Professor (by courtesy) in the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies at Yale. Manning is a specialist in Hellenistic history with particular focus on the legal and economic history of Ptolemaic Egypt. His current work is at the intersection of Paleoclimatology and historical change, and is the Principal Investigator of a major National Science Foundation funded project. \n\nBefore coming to Yale, Manning taught for 12 years at Stanford University and two years at Princeton University. He was a Solmsen Fellow at the Institute for Research in the Humanities at the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 1995-1996. He is a collaborative member of Yale’s Program in Economic History, and was a founder of the comparative premodern history group at Yale, Archaia He received his B.A. from The Ohio State University, and his M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of Chicago.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42313270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42313270", "title": "Juan González Arintero", "text": "Juan González Arintero\n\nJuan González Arintero, O.P. (24 June 1860 – 20 February 1928) was a Spanish Catholic priest and theologian.\n\nArintero was born in Lugueros, León, and entered the Dominican Order at Corias (Asturias) in 1875. As a specialist in the natural sciences, he taught at colleges in Vergara, Corias, Valladolid and later at the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\" in Rome. In 1921 he founded in Bilbao the magazine \"La Vida Sobrenatural\".\n\nFather Arintero died in Salamanca in 1928.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56885498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56885498", "title": "Jurate Rosales", "text": "Jurate Rosales\n\nJūratė Regina Statkutė de Rosales is a Lithuanian-born Venezuelan journalist and researcher. She has published studies in Venezuela, Spain, the United States and Lithuania in which she supports the hypothesis that the Goths were not a Germanic but a Baltic people.\n\nRosales was born on 9 September 1929 in Kaunas, Lithuania and lived with her parents, at least partly in Paris, until 1938. Her father, Jonas Statkus, was head of the State Security Department of Lithuania until he was arrested on 6 July 1940 along with Augustinas Povilaitis, General Kazys Skučas, and several other high officials after the Soviet ultimatum to Lithuania. He was sent to Butyrka prison in Moscow where it is presumed he died on an unknown date. After the end of the Second World War Rosales moved to France where she learned Latin and French, receiving a degree as a teacher of French. She continued her studies at Columbia University in New York, where she taught English, Spanish, and German. In 1960 she married Venezuelan engineer Luis Rosales; they raised five children—Luis, Juan, Sarunas, Rimas, and Saulius—in a multi-lingual household, using both Spanish and Lithuanian. Starting in 1983 she held the position of editor-in-chief of the Venezuelan opposition magazine \"Zeta\", in addition to writing for Venezuelan daily paper \"El Nuevo País\" and the Cleveland-based \"Dirva\". She holds an honorary doctorate from the Lithuanian University of Educational Sciences.\n\nRosales has published studies in the US, Spain, Venezuela, and Lithuania supporting the idea that the Goths were a Baltic, not Germanic people.\n\nRosales traces her research on the controversial hypothesis back to 17th-century Prussian scholar Matthäus Prätorius who is thought to have first proposed the idea, which was supported by several Lithuanian historians including Simonas Daukantas and Česlovas Gedgaudas as well as linguist Kazimieras Būga. \n\nMost of what is known of the Gothic language is from the sixth-century Codex Argenteus, the only substantive text in the Gothic language. The surviving Codex is a translation of part of the Bible; it contains the greater part of the four Gospels. It was written for a small Gothic population living on the banks of the Danube surrounded by a much larger Germanic population. Rosales's controversial theory is that this latter fact was not taken into account by the Swedish linguist Johan Ihre when he determined that in 1769 that this work was in a Germanic language. Rosales states that instead the people for whom it was translated—referred to by Jordanes as the \"little Goths\", distinguished from the Ostrogoths and Visigoths—spoke a mix of Gothic (a Baltic language, according to Rosales) and an exogenous Germanic language.\n\nAccording to Rosales, prior to Ihre's work, the non-German inhabitants of northeast Europe were referred to as \"Getas\" or \"Gethes\" in medieval chronicles; she adduces several examples from those gathered by Būga and Rackus, like:\n\nRosales maintains that from the middle of the second millennium BCE and into the first millennium BCE, the territory of the Baltics was in Central and Eastern Europe, from which Goths (which she identifies as being the same people as these \"Getas\"), the largest and most southern tribe, made incursions into Asia, going as far as India. She considers the \"Getica\" (Jordanes circa 551 A.D. book on the Goths and self-described as a summary of a now lost work by Cassiodorus), and the 13th-century \"Estoria de España\" or \"Primera Crónica General\" of Alfonso X of Castile (Alfonso \"El Sabio\", \"The Wise\") to be basically accurate. The island of \"Scandza\", the place of origin of the Gothic people, is usually presumed to be Scandinavia, but Rosales says that the Curonian Spit (a thin strip of land along the Baltic Sea that joins modern-day Lithuania with the Kaliningrad Oblast, now a Russian exclave), is more congruent with the description in the \"Primera Crónica General\", based on the Spit's nearness to the lower portion and mouth of the Vistula. She proposes that the Gulf of \"Codano\" is the Gulf of Gdansk. According to Rosales, Lithuanian name of the spit, \"(Kuršių) nerija\", means the same as \"Scandza\", \"that which submerges\".\n\nShe concurs with Gedgaudas's date of 1490 BCE for the departure of the Goths from Scandza. Asserting that the \"Crónica\" mentions (without naming) the Battle of Kadesh (between the Ancient Egyptians and Hittites in the 13th Century BCE), she identifies the Egyptian king Uesoso named in the \"Crónica\" with Ramesses II; the \"Crónica\" recounts the Gothic king Thanauso handing Uesoso a major defeat in battle. Subsequently, Thanauso (king in 1290 BCE) continued eastward, arriving 15 years later in India, where some of his warriors settled and became the Parthians and Bactrians; the mythological Amazons, she states, would have been Gothic women.\n\nOn the linguistic front, she concurs with Gedgaudas according to which the etymology of \"Goth\" is from the Baltic verb \"gaudo\", \"to catch\" or \"to trap\", which could refer to a man who captures a cow/bull or, equally, a slave, so either a rancher or a warrior and further proposes that the German \"Gott\" (English \"God\") is the same word, owing to the Goths deifying some of their kings after they died; the \"Crónica\" relates, \"so good was this Thanauso, king of the Goths, that after his death they counted him among the gods.\" . She proposes that \"Scythia\" means \"place of passage\" (a place one passed through) and \"Scythian\" means \"transient\" (one who is passing through), related to the Baltic \"aisčiai\" (from the root \"eiti\", \"to go\").\n\nShe suggests that millennia-long continuity of a population in northeastern means that the Balts are one and the same as the first Indoeuropeans, and that this region was the source of the various migrations that created the Indoeuropean domain.\n\nOn the base of the finding of names like Sembus and Neuri in inscriptions gathered by Julien Sacaze in the French area which belonged to the Visigothic Kingdom, Rosales sustains that among the Visigoths there was a contingent of Sambians, whose origin was the North of Poland, and other of Neuri, who had lived in the area embraced by the upper Volga, Moscow and Kiev, the dialects spoken by them are extincts, althoug the \"dzukas\" dialect, still alive in Lithuania, seems to be the last remain of the old Prussian language spoken by the sambians. She also believes that Baltic languages significantly influenced the phonetics of Latin in the Iberian Peninsula, attributing to it the arising of the palatalization and the carachteristic diphthongs of the Spanish, Leonese and Galician-Portuguese and indicates that some Spanish words and surnames are of Baltic origin.\n\nThe idea has been heavily criticized by other academics such as Zigmas Zinkevičius as pseudohistory primarily driven by nationalist, not academic concepts. Professors Alvydas Butkus and Stefano M. Lanza make similar criticisms of her methodology, to the point of accusing her of twisting the meaning of sources and using \"nonexistent\" Lithuanian words.\n\n"}
{"id": "1120270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1120270", "title": "Kenkyū", "text": "Kenkyū\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21028668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21028668", "title": "List of massacres at sea", "text": "List of massacres at sea\n\n"}
{"id": "36465256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36465256", "title": "Mahdi (malware)", "text": "Mahdi (malware)\n\nMahdi is computer malware that was initially discovered in February 2012 and was reported in July of that year. According to Kaspersky Lab and Seculert (an Israeli security firm which discovered the malware), the software has been used for targeted cyber espionage since December 2011, infecting at least 800 computers in Iran and other Middle Eastern countries. Mahdi is named after files used in the malware and refers to the Muslim figure.\n\n"}
{"id": "52838549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52838549", "title": "Metropolitano Histórico de Madrid", "text": "Metropolitano Histórico de Madrid\n\nSociedad Metropolitano Histórico de Madrid (MHM)-Historical Metropolitan Society of Madrid in English- is a cultural association from Madrid (Spain) focused in defending and promoting the History and cultural heritage from the Madrid city urban railways, mainly the subway (Metro de Madrid) and historical trams and light trains.\n\nThis society has its origins as successor of the former \"Sociedad de Amigos del Metro y los Tranvías Históricos de Madrid\" (SAMETRAHM) -Society of friends of historical Metro and trams of Madrid in english- , which was refunded as MHM in the year 2016 continuing on its same goals and activities.\n\nMHM carries out numerous activities and initiatives of cultural nature. Of particular note is the project developed on the original hall of the Pacífico metro station (designed by the renowned Spanish arquitect Antonio Palacios), which was approved by the Madrid City Hall district office of Retiro district on October 11, 2016.\n\nThis association has also played a prominent role in the struggle and defense of the preservation of the historical Cuatro Caminos subway yard and workshop, where the association also defends the creation of the future Madrid Metro Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "22714530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22714530", "title": "Michele Foscarini", "text": "Michele Foscarini\n\nMichele Foscarini (1632 – 1692) was a Venetian historian. He is most notable for his continuation of the \"History of Venice\" by Giovan Battista Nani.\n"}
{"id": "7206451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7206451", "title": "Mohammed al-Qadiri", "text": "Mohammed al-Qadiri\n\nMohammed ibn al-Tayyib al-Qadiri (1712–1773) was a Moroccan historian and author of \"Nashir al-Mathani\". This work is a biographical dictionary of 18th-century Morocco, but each year is usually accompanied by a summary of events. In this sense, the form of the book tends toward being both that of a biographical dictionary and a chronicle. Mohammed al-Qadiri is the grandson of the genealogist Abd as-Salam al-Qadiri.\n\nFull title of al-Mathani (The Chronicles): \"Nashr al-mathani li-ahl al-qarn al-hadi 'ashr wa al-thani\", Edited by A. Tawfiq and M. Hijji. 4 vols. Rabat, 1977. Partial English translation by N. Cigar. \"Muhammad al-Qadiri's Nashr al-mathani: The Chronicles\". Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1981.\n\nHis extensive autobiography with some references to himself and family is in \"Iltiqat al-durat (wa-mustafad al-mawaiz wa-al-ibar min akhbar wa-ayan al-mia al-hadiya wa-althaniya ashar)\", ed. Hashim al-Alawi al-Qasimi (Beirut: Manshurat Dar al-Afaq al- Jadida, 1983) 449-92. He also composed a catalogue of books (\"Al-Fihrisit\"), which is unpublished.\n"}
{"id": "38212992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38212992", "title": "Mont Blanc Restaurant", "text": "Mont Blanc Restaurant\n\nMont Blanc Restaurant is a former restaurant in London where leading writers including Hilaire Belloc, GK Chesterton, Joseph Conrad and Galsworthy met regularly in the early years of the 20th century.\n\nThe restaurant was located at 16 Gerrard Street in the Soho district of central London. It was closed in 1928.\n\nWriter, critic and publisher Edward Garnett held regular Tuesday lunches at the restaurant where he nurtured the talent of many literary figures such as DH Lawrence, John Galsworthy and Liam O'Flaherty. Chesterton and Belloc met at the restaurant in 1900 and subsequently developed a close friendship, apparently sealed over a bottle of Moulin-a-Vent. In 1912, through Garnett's 'circle' of friends, Richard Curle was first introduced to Conrad and became his protégé, literary assistant and close friend.\n\nIn July 2010 the City of Westminster decided to commemorate the restaurant with one of its Commemorative Green Plaques. The circular plaque reads:\n"}
{"id": "20003346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20003346", "title": "Moscow Art Theatre production of The Seagull", "text": "Moscow Art Theatre production of The Seagull\n\nThe Moscow Art Theatre production of \"The Seagull\" in 1898, directed by Konstantin Stanislavski and Vladimir Nemirovich-Danchenko, was a crucial milestone for the fledgling theatre company that has been described as \"one of the greatest events in the history of Russian theatre and one of the greatest new developments in the history of world drama.\" It was the first production in Moscow of Anton Chekhov's \"The Seagull\", though the play had been performed with only moderate success in St. Petersburg two years earlier. Nemirovich, who was a friend of Chekhov's, overcame the writer's refusal to allow the play to appear in Moscow after its earlier lacklustre reception and convinced Stanislavski to direct the play for their innovative and newly founded Moscow Art Theatre (MAT). The production opened on . The MAT's success was due to the fidelity of its delicate representation of everyday life, its intimate, ensemble playing, and the resonance of its mood of despondent uncertainty with the psychological disposition of the Russian intelligentsia of the time. To commemorate this historic production, which gave the MAT its sense of identity, the company to this day bears the seagull as its emblem.\n\n\nWhile visiting his brother's estate near Kharkiv in August 1898, Stanislavski began work on his production plan (or his directorial \"score\" as he came to call it) for the play, into which he incorporated his sensory experiences of the Russian countryside there. He storyboarded key moments of the play with small drawings that gave the actor's spatial and proxemic relationships. He also detailed individual rhythms, physical lives and mannerisms for each character:\n\nThe score indicates when the actors will \"wipe away dribble, blow their noses, smack their lips, wipe away sweat, or clean their teeth and nails with matchsticks.\" This tight control of the \"mise en scène\" was intended to facilitate the unified expression of the inner action that Stanislavski perceived to be hidden beneath the surface of the play in its subtext. Vsevolod Meyerhold, the director and practitioner whom Stanislavski on his death-bed declared to be \"my sole heir in the theatre—here or anywhere else\", and the actor who played Konstantin in this production, described years later the poetic effect of Stanislavski's treatment of the play:\n\nStanislavski's directorial score was published in 1938.\n\nAs an actor, despite wishing to play Trigorin, Stanislavski initially prepared the role of the doctor Dorn, at Nemirovich's insistence. When Chekhov attended rehearsals for the production in September 1898, however, he felt that the performance of Trigorin was weak, which resulted in a re-casting; Stanislavski took over Trigorin and Nemirovich apologised for having kept the role from him. Olga Knipper (Chekhov's future wife) played Arkadina.\n\nThe production had 80 hours of rehearsal in total, spread over 24 sessions: 9 with Stanislavski and 15 with Nemirovich. Despite this, a considerable length by the standards of the conventional practice of the day, Stanislavski felt it was under-rehearsed and threatened to have his name removed from the posters when Nemirovich refused his demand to postpone its opening by a week.\n\nThe production opened on with a sense of crisis in the air in the theatre; most of the actors were mildly self-tranquilised with Valerian drops. In a letter to Chekhov, one audience member described how:\n\nNemirovich described the applause, which came after a prolonged silence, as bursting from the audience like a dam breaking. The production received unanimous praise from the press.\n\nIt was not until that Chekhov saw the production, in a performance without sets but in make-up and costumes at the Paradiz Theatre. He praised the production but was less keen on Stanislavski's own performance; he objected to the \"soft, weak-willed tone\" in his interpretation (shared by Nemirovich) of Trigorin and entreated Nemirovich to \"put some spunk into him or something\". He proposed that the play be published with Stanislavski's score of the production's \"mise en scène\". Chekhov's collaboration with Stanislavski proved crucial to the creative development of both men. Stanislavski's attention to psychological realism and ensemble playing coaxed the buried subtleties from the play and revived Chekhov's interest in writing for the stage. Chekhov's unwillingness to explain or expand on the script forced Stanislavski to dig beneath the surface of the text in ways that were new in theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "3895901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3895901", "title": "Moshe Gil", "text": "Moshe Gil\n\nMoshe Gil (; February 8, 1921 – January 23, 2014) was a renowned Israeli historian.\n\nMoshe Gil specialized in the historical interaction between Islam and the Jews, including the history of Palestine under the Islamic domination, the institution of the Exilarchate, and Jewish merchants such as the Radhanites. Gil was professor emeritus of the Chaim Rosenberg School of Jewish Studies at Tel Aviv University and held the Joseph and Ceil Mazer Chair in the History of the Jews in Muslim Lands.\n\nIn 1998, Gil was awarded the Israel Prize, for Land of Israel studies,\nprimarily for his work analyzing some 846 document fragments from the Cairo Genizah and for his work in documenting the role of Jewish merchants in the development of medieval society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18550345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18550345", "title": "Muhammad Ismail Zabeeh", "text": "Muhammad Ismail Zabeeh\n\nMaulana Muhammad Ismail Zabeeh (1913–2001 CE) was a writer, orator, historian and journalist involved in the Pakistan movement (Creation of Pakistan) in 1947. He was a leader of Majlis-e-Ahrar-ul-Islam and a staunch supporter of the two nation theory.\n\nZabeeh hailed from a scholarly family of Hazara. He was born to Maulana Ghulaam Yahya Hazarvi, at Gawaliar, India, in 1913. His father had moved to India after completing his early education in the Abbotabad district of Pakistan's North West Frontier Province. It was the thirst for knowledge that moved his father to India, where he studied under various luminaries of his time. They included two famous students of the eminent Maulana Muhammad Qasim Nanotwi.\n\nIn his early teens, Zabeeh went to the institution headed by his father. At 13 he was studying Arabic language at the Darul Uloom of Deoband when his father recalled him to Jamia Illahiyaat, at Kanpur. He later went to study Jamia Millia at Delhi and studied under Dr. Zakir Hussain.\n\nHis sagacity and journalistic talent caught the attention of Muhammad Ali Jinnah who appointed him as the head of the publicity campaign of the All India Muslim league in the 1946 elections. Due to his effective and persuasive publicity campaign in favour of Muslim League candidates, they won almost all the 67 Muslim seats in Uttar Pradesh. He also campaigned for the victory of Liaquat Ali Khan, which was acknowledged by the later during his address to a large gathering at Kanpur.\n\nHis journalistic career started while he was in his teens, and last until his death at the age of 87. In his early teens, he remained associated with 'Bombay punch' (a humorous mag), 'Paishwa' and 'Maulvi' at Delhi, and published the monthly 'Arif'. He reported the 'Kanpur Riots' at the age of 17 in 1930. He also was Publicity Secretary of All India Majlis-e-Ahrar-ul-Islam in 1938. Upon arrest of its President Ameer-e-Shariyat Maulana Syed Ata Ullah Shah Bukhari, Zabeeh acted as President of All India Majlis-e-Ahrar-ul-Islam in 1939. In 1941, he started publishing the 'Qaumi Akhbar', an Urdu Language daily, which soon became the leading voice of the uprising against the Britons, in the Muslim struggle for a free homeland. In 1947, he started publishing the Urdu Language daily 'Khursheed' from Karachi, along with Mr. Raees Ahmed. In 1949, he published his first English language daily the 'Voice of Sindh' from Hyderabad. In 1954, he published the Urdu language daily, the 'Anjam', which later evolved to 'Mashriq' in the 1960s and for which he was chief editor.\n\nZabeeh had particular interest in the history of the Indian subcontinent and its civilization. This became evident by the well-researched books which in this area.\n\n\n1. http://www.imarvels.com/zabeeh/intro/intro.htm\n\nhttp://www.pakpost.gov.pk/philately/stamps2003/moulana_muhammaed_ismail_zabeeh.html\n"}
{"id": "3219081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3219081", "title": "Original meaning", "text": "Original meaning\n\nIn the context of United States constitutional interpretation, original meaning is the dominant form of the legal theory of originalism today. It was made popular by Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia and contends that the terms of the United States Constitution should be interpreted as meaning what they meant when they were ratified, which is to say, it asks the question: \"What would a reasonable person living at the time of ratification have understood these words to mean?\"\n\nThe theory stands in equal opposition to interpretivist theories such as original intent, and legal realist theories such as that of the living Constitution.\n\nOriginal meaning is a formalist theory, and a logical extension of textualism. Textualists believe that a statute means whatever the plain meaning of its words is, as opposed to other potential meanings, such as what those who drafted the law or voted for it \"intended\" it to say. Formalists would point out that it is unnecessary for any member of the legislature to share the intentions of any other member of the legislature, or even to \"have\" a particular intent; what counts is their vote, just as if a voter enters a polling station while inebriated, and indicates a preference for the wrong candidate, their vote will count as a vote for the person they indicated on the ballot paper, not for the candidate for whom they intended to vote before they started drinking. Likewise, even if not a single member of the legislature has read and comprehended the effect of a given bill (a scenario some critics of the USA PATRIOT Act and Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act allege to have actually occurred during the enactment of these statutes), once it becomes law, it is a law no less or more valid than an identically worded law passed when every member of the legislature is of the same mind and understanding regarding its meaning and effect. This being the case, it is the text of the law which governs.\n\nAn originalist inquiry into the original \"meaning\" of the Constitution is able to cast a much broader net than an inquiry into the original \"intent\".\n\nOriginalists of all stripes cite \"The Federalist Papers\". It is fairly tenuous to suggest that this represents a good source for the original \"intent\": after all, Alexander Hamilton, who wrote the majority of those essays, was absent for the greater part of the Philadelphia Convention, and John Jay did not attend it at all. However, James Madison, the principal framer of the Constitution also wrote a substantial amount of \"The Federalist Papers\". Also, to suggest Hamilton and Jay's absence from the convention implies their ignorance as to the Constitution's original meaning is demeaning to those two men and inaccurate. The collected anti-Federalist papers, of course, will be no use at all to a person searching for the original \"intent\" of the framers. However, as evidence of how a reasonable person at the time would have understood the words of the Constitution, \"The Federalist Papers\" and the anti-Federalist essays are evidence of direct relevance.\n\nLikewise, neither John Adams nor Thomas Jefferson attended the Convention, and thus two of the most prolific writers of the founding era are necessarily excluded (or, at best, abstracted) from an original-intent inquiry. Because they were reasonable contemporaries of the Framers, their writings are informative to discussions of the text's original meaning.\n\nOne of the primary virtues of original meaning over original intent is that the original meaning is a fairly discernible thing, while the original intent is nebulous and uncertain. This is well-illustrated by the use of dictionaries. Contemporaneous dictionaries are of dubious value to an original \"intent\" inquiry, but of high value to an original \"meaning\" inquiry: we can establish what the words the Framers chose \"meant\", but that is not \"necessarily\" conclusive as to what they \"intended\" to say (consider for example, the law of unintended consequences).\n\nThe theory was arguably pioneered and popularized by Justice Antonin Scalia; whether Scalia could take credit for inventing it, he remained one of its most forceful and high-profile proponents, although he was also accused of deviating from the method (he himself admitted that \"in a crunch I may prove a faint-hearted originalist\") (Scalia, \"Originalism: The Lesser Evil\", 57 U. Cin. L. Rev. 849 at 864).\n\n"}
{"id": "56507540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56507540", "title": "Penelope Allison", "text": "Penelope Allison\n\nPenelope Allison is Professor of Archaeology at the University of Leicester. She has held the Chair since 2015. She is also a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries and an Honorary Fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities.\n\nAllison is originally from North Canterbury, New Zealand. She received an undergraduate degree in Pure Mathematics from the University of Canterbury, and her MA Honours and her doctorate in Archaeology from the University of Sydney. She has held several research fellowships, including a fellowship in the Classics faculty at the University of Cambridge and fellowships at the University of Sydney. She joined the School of Archaeology and Ancient History at the University of Leicester as a lecturer in 2006.\n\nShe specialises in Roman and Historical Archaeology and has particular interests in household archaeology, and gender and space. Many of her publications relate to houses and households in Pompeii, and gender and space in Roman military forts in Germany. She is also interested in digital archaeology and how archaeological data can be spread digitally.\n\nAllison was elected as a Corresponding Member of the Archaeological Institute of America in 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "276892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=276892", "title": "Philatelic investment", "text": "Philatelic investment\n\nPhilatelic investment is investment in collectible postage stamps for the purpose of realizing a profit. Philatelic investment was popular during the 1970s but then fell out of favour following a speculative bubble and prices of rare stamps took many years to recover.\n\nInvesting in rare stamps requires a high degree of expertise and can be very risky for the novice. Rare stamps are among the most portable of tangible investments, take up little space but require careful storage as condition is one of the most important factors in determining the value of a stamp. Other tangible investments include art, antiques, precious metals, rare coins and many others that are all termed alternative investments. Interest in stamps as an investment tends to increase when traditional investments are not doing well, causing investors to seek alternatives. The increasing age of the population in western countries has also been credited with a resurgence in interest in stamps.\n\nA British auctioneer warned: \"Unless you know what you are doing – and this only comes with many years of experience – it is very difficult to buy sensibly and at the right prices. When you buy on a retail basis, you have to overcome the profit margins the dealer has built into his selling price, plus VAT. When you sell, you also have to overcome dealing charges, whether you sell to an auction house or a dealer. That would consume an awful lot of value. To overcome that mark-up and sell at a profit would require quite a few years of appreciation.\" \n\nA stamp investor should have a good knowledge of:\nThe prospective investor will also benefit from attending stamp clubs, auctions, philatelic shows and having a relationship with a knowledgeable dealer.\n\nVery subtle differences in colour, perforation, overprinting, and the like may be what differentiates a valuable stamp from a common one. The investor not only has to be very knowledgeable of these issues but also know (or at least have a reputable expert available to check) whether alterations have been made to make an inexpensive stamp look like a valuable one, or indeed, whether the stamp itself is simply a counterfeit.\n\nThe value of a stamp is determined by a number of factors including:\n\nThere are a number of places where a prospective investor can buy stamps:\n\nStamps purchased for investment are usually old classic stamps in fine condition, such as British Victorian stamps or American stamps from before 1900. These may be thought of as the equivalent of buying a blue chip share. Although future prices may vary, as long as there is a hobby of stamp collecting there is likely to be good demand for these stamps.\n\nStamps typically included in an investment portfolio will be rare and priced in the thousands of dollars or pounds but they will probably not be the greatest rarities as those unique items are typically sold at public auctions and may reach prices approaching or exceeding $1 million US.\n\nSome collectors and investors also try to anticipate future trends and buy low now, this however, is difficult to get right and may take a long time to pay off. Investors may try to identify a developing country with an expanding middle class who may have the time and money to pursue a hobby like stamp collecting as the developing domestic demand may help to force prices up. Recent examples have been India and China.\n\nSome firms are developing collective or mutual funds where money from many investors is pooled and each investor owns shares or units in the fund. The fund then invests the money in stamps.\n\nUnlike stocks and shares, the majority of transactions in the philatelic or stamp market take place informally, by mail order, or in retail environments, and therefore the size of the market is hard to determine. The market is certainly much smaller than the financial markets but it is not trivial. It has been estimated at £5 Billion. The majority of these transactions, however, are likely to be low value items rather than investments. In a 2007 interview, Mike Hall of Stanley Gibbons estimated that \"About $1 billion of rare stamps trade annually in the $10 billion-a-year stamp market.\" The number of collectors worldwide was estimated at 30 million in 2004. In 2009, Adrian Roose of Stanley Gibbons estimated the figure at 48 million including 18 million in China. It is not known how many of these are serious collectors.\n\nWhile there are long term records of retail stamp prices, the first catalogue being prepared in 1862, there is little objective historical data about the past performance of stamps as investments. No long term indices like the Dow Jones or FTSE Index exist, although some figures have been compiled by Stanley Gibbons and \"Stamp Magazine\" in the UK.\n\nFrom 2002, Stanley Gibbons compiled a \"SG100 Stamp Index\" based on retail and auction prices for the \"top 100 most frequently traded stamps\" in the world. The index appears on the Bloomberg Terminal but was discontinued and given heritage status. In 2004 they also launched an index of 30 rare British stamps. In 2012 the company launched the \"GB250 Rare Stamp Index\" 'to provide a broad view of the investment market for Great Britain stamps', listing the type of stamps they would recommend for investment purposes. The GB30 and GB250 indices are listed on both the Bloomberg Professional service and Thomson Reuters. According to Stanley Gibbons, rare stamps have averaged an annual compound return of 10 per cent over the past 50 years, however, it is important to remember that this figure has been calculated using backtesting as stamp price indexes are a recent innovation. In addition, the prices in the indexes are based in part on Stanley Gibbon's own retail price lists and frequently traded but low value stamps have been excluded from the index.\n\nStamp catalogue prices are not considered reliable as they are nothing more than estimates at the top end and represent a retail selling price at the bottom end of the market. Auction realisations may be more reliable but are difficult to use as the investor has to personally analyse the realisations from many auctions over a long period of time in order to come to any useful conclusions. While most trading in shares is on a recognised stock exchange and takes place transparently in public, that is not the case with stamps where only auction transactions take place in public view.\n\nThere are a number of ways to sell stamps, as there are to buy, and each has its own advantages and disadvantages.\n\nThere is no equivalent of the stock exchange for stamps.\n\nInvesting successfully in stamps requires a high degree of specialised knowledge. This takes time to acquire and there are many pitfalls for the inexperienced investor. Some of the risks and disadvantages are:\n\n\nStamps purchased for investment do not normally have any special regulatory protection for the purchaser. In the United Kingdom there is no regulation of this area at all from the Financial Conduct Authority. Rules elsewhere may vary. Where investment is collective through a mutual fund there may be some regulation of the activities of the fund depending on its location.\n\nThere have been a number of scandals in this area over the years.\n\nIn Ireland in the 1950s, Paul Singer, a Bratislavian Doctor of Philosophy, ran a Ponzi scheme under the name \"Shanahan Stamp Auctions\". The scheme collapsed when a mysterious robbery took place at the company's office on 9 May 1959, the eve of a major auction, when more than ₤300,000 worth of stamps went missing. Singer was charged with fraud, but was acquitted and vanished.\n\nIn the 1970s, the bursting of a speculative bubble left investors unable to realise their investment at the price they had paid. Prices took decades to recover.\n\nIn 2006, two Spanish firms Afinsa and \"Forum Filatelico\" collapsed and left around 350,000 investors with investments worth as little as 10% of the price they had paid.\n\nIn November 2017 it was announced that Stanley Gibbons' stamp investment subsidiary in Guernsey had been placed in administration. The company was reported to have £12.6 million of philatelic stock but over £70m of liabilities, made up of £54m of \"buy-back\" guarantees, £6.5m owed to its parent company, and £11m of sundry liabilities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38272359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38272359", "title": "Qiamuddin Khadim", "text": "Qiamuddin Khadim\n\nMawlana Qiamuddin Khadim(1901, Afghanistan - 1979, Kabul) () was a renowned Afghan scholar, poet, writer, journalist, public speaker and one of the founding member of the first political party of Afghanistan, Weekh Zalmian (the vigilant youth). His scholastic achievements, political contribution and dedication to the Afghan national cause earned him the title Mawlana. He was also a senator in the era of King Mohammad Zahir Shah. He was the author and publisher of hundreds of Afghan books and articles.\n\n"}
{"id": "40686131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40686131", "title": "Rodolfo Pérez Pimentel", "text": "Rodolfo Pérez Pimentel\n\nRodolfo Pérez Pimentel (born November 2, 1939 in Guayaquil) is an Ecuadorian lawyer, historian, and biographer. He was declared the \"lifetime chronicler of the city of Guayaquil\", and is a member of the National Academy of Ecuadorian History. He was the 2005 recipient of the Premio Eugenio Espejo in Literature, awarded to him by President Alfredo Palacio.\n\nPérez Pimentel is the author of the Biographical Dictionary of Ecuador (Diccionario biográfico del Ecuador), which consists of about 1,600 biographies of nationals and foreigners who have been an integral part of Ecuador.\n\nThe Premio Eugenio Espejo (Eugenio Espejo Prize) is the most coveted prize of the nation of Ecuador. It is awarded every two years in the fields of literature, art, culture, science, and to public or private institutions for their work.\n\nThe list of 2005's winners was entered into the Official Registry Nº 175 on December 28, 2005, and the actual ceremony took place in January 2006. Usually the winners are announced by August 9, to commemorate National Culture Day (Día de la Cultura Nacional), and to celebrate the anniversary of the creation of the Casa de la Cultura Ecuatoriana (The House of Ecuadorian Culture).\n\nFor that year's winners, the president Alfredo Palacio increased the monetary prize of the award from $2000 to $10,000. Besides the award money, the winners received medals and a lifetime stipend.\n\nPérez Pimentel won the prize in the literature category for his lifetime work as a biographer; Theo Constante won in the art category; Rodrigo Cabezas won in the science category; Luis Enrique Fierro won in the cultural activities category; and an award was given to the Academia Ecuatoriana de la Lengua (The Ecuadorian Academy of Language) for its history of excellence.\n\n"}
{"id": "55553123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55553123", "title": "Ruth Wittenberg", "text": "Ruth Wittenberg\n\nRuth Wittenberg (1899-1990) was an American activist and historic preservationist who advocated for the preservation of historic buildings in New York City's Greenwich Village. She was a leading figure in the successful movement to designate Greenwich Village a historic district.\n\nRuth Wittenberg (née Budinoff) was born in Brooklyn, New York. She attended Hunter College and Barnard College and worked as a demographer for the Bell Telephone Company. Wittenberg developed a strong connection to the Greenwich Village neighborhood as a college student who idolized Village literary and intellectual figures like Crystal Eastman, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Floyd Dell, and Mabel Dodge.\n\nWittenberg began a lifelong commitment to activism when she became involved in suffragist and women's rights movements in the early 20th century. After moving to Greenwich Village, she became concerned about the rapid pace of change in the neighborhood, and joined community efforts to advocate for preservation of buildings and against what she saw as destructive real estate projects. She served as co-chairman of the Save our Square Committee, a coalition of 22 community organizations, which took on powerful real estate developers and institutions like St Vincent's Hospital and the New School in its efforts to preserve and rehabilitate the Washington Square Park area.\n\nIn the late 1960s, Wittenberg was involved in an unsuccessful protest against the construction of the Elmer Holmes Bobst Library at New York University, which she and other local residents considered too large for its site at Washington Square Park. The group of neighborhood activists, including Jane Jacobs and Verna Small, believed that the tall building would cast a large shadow across the park, obstructing sunlight from large portions of public space.She was part of an effort, led by Margot Gayle, to preserve the Jefferson Market Courthouse building on 10th Street, which now houses a branch of the New York Public Library. Wittenberg was the leader of an affiliated movement to have the adjacent Women's House of Detention demolished and converted into a community garden. The then-empty jail building, which Wittenberg described as \"aesthetically grim\", was torn down in 1971. She led a community effort against plans to build apartments or a community center in its place, advocating instead for the preservation of open space. Wittenberg was responsible for bringing many well-known Greenwich Village artists and residents on board with the effort, among them e.e. cummings, Morris Ernst, Maurice Evans, and Edward Hopper.\nWittenberg served on Community Board 2, representing Washington Square Park and Greenwich Village, from 1951 until her death in 1990. She served as chairwoman of its Landmarks Committee and played a major role in the successful movement to acquire a Landmark Historical District designation for much of Greenwich Village. When Wittenberg broke her hip in 1975 and again 1976, Community Board 2 held meetings in her hospital room until she recovered enough to attend board meetings on crutches or in her wheelchair.\n\nDuring her tenure on Community Board 2, Wittenberg was vocal in challenging development plans that she thought would adversely affect the historic neighborhood. In the late 1970s, she protested architect Hugh Hardy's proposed replacement design for 18 West 11th Street, the town house destroyed in an accidental explosion caused the detonation of a bomb built by members of the Weather Underground. During the 1980s, Wittenberg opposed architect James Polshek's design for a residential building on Avenue of the Americas between Waverly and Washington Place, citing its lack of a cornice and projecting lintels and window sills. She also campaigned for tasteful street signage, working to reduce advertising with \"flashing lights, open store fronts, shiny plastic materials and logos.\"\nRuth married Philip Wittenberg, a copyright lawyer and civil liberties attorney, in 1919. In the 1920s, the couple bought a three-story brick house at 35 W 10th St in Greenwich Village, where they raised two children, Jonathan and Susanna. Ruth lived there for 65 years before dying of natural causes at the age of 91.\n\nRuth Wittenberg Triangle, named in 1990 in her honor, is located in Manhattan at the intersection of Greenwich Avenue, Avenue of the Americas, and Christopher Street, just south of the Jefferson Market Courthouse building that she fought to preserve. It is often the site of temporary public art installations.\n\n"}
{"id": "30188740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30188740", "title": "School of Chartres", "text": "School of Chartres\n\nDuring the High Middle Ages, the Chartres Cathedral established the cathedral School of Chartres, an important center of French scholarship located in Paris. It developed and reached its apex during the transitional period of the 11th and 12th centuries, at the start of the Latin translation movement. This period was also right before the spread of medieval universities, which eventually superseded cathedral schools and monastic schools as the most important institutions of higher learning in the Latin West.\n\nIn the early 11th century, (c. 1020), Bishop Fulbert established Chartres as one of the leading schools in Europe. Although the role of Fulbert himself as a scholar and teacher has been questioned, his administrative ability established the conditions in which the school could flourish.\n\nGreat scholars were attracted to the cathedral school, including Bernard of Chartres, Thierry of Chartres, William of Conches, and the Englishman John of Salisbury. These men were at the forefront of the intense intellectual rethinking that culminated in what is now known as the twelfth-century renaissance, pioneering the Scholastic philosophy that came to dominate medieval thinking throughout Europe.\n\nAs with most monastic and cathedral schools, the school's teaching was based on the traditional seven liberal arts, grouped into the trivium (study of logic, grammar and rhetoric) and into the quadrivium (arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy). There were, however, differences among the schools on the emphasis given to each subject. The Chartres school placed special emphasis on the quadrivium (the mathematical arts) and on natural philosophy.\n\nChartres' greatest period was the first half of the twelfth century, but it eventually could not support the city's large number of students and its masters lacked the relative autonomy developing around the city's other schools. By the later 12th century, the status of the school was on the wane. It was gradually eclipsed by the newly emerging University of Paris, particularly by the School of the Abbey of St. Victor (attended by the 'Victorines').\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11187442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11187442", "title": "Sempronius Asellio", "text": "Sempronius Asellio\n\nPublius Sempronius Asellio (born around 158 BC, died after 91 BC) was an early Roman historian and one of the first writers of historiographic work in Latin. He was a military tribune of P. Scipio Aemilianus Africanus at the siege of Numantia in Hispania in 134 B.C. Later he joined the circle of writers centred on Scipio Aemilianus. Asellio wrote the history of the events of which he was engaged in, and thus preceded Caesar in his more famous accounts of his military campaigns.\n\nAsellio, whose background is unknown, probably belonged to the prestigious plebeian gens Sempronia. He was greatly influenced by his co-writer Polybius, who was supported by Scipio Aemilianus. Polybius attempted not only to record events as they took place, but also to look for the causes that led to them. Asellio was the first Roman historian to follow this method. In his work, he showed contempt for the previous Roman historians of the annalistic school. According to him, they wrote nothing else than a diary as far as form was concerned.\n\nSempronius Asellio composed the \"Rerum Gestarum Libri\" (sometimes cited as \"Historiae\" or \"libri rerum gestarum\") in at least fourteen books, where he dealt mostly with the events of the Third Punic War (149-146 BC) onwards. But it is also possible he only started recording history after Polybius stopped at 146 B.C. The last reported events in Asellio's work date from the year 91 BC or even 83 BC.\n\nCicero did not think highly of Asellio's work and spoke slightingly of its simple style. Nothing apart from 15 citations preserved in later authors (Aulus Gellius and some grammarians) survives of his work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6195501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6195501", "title": "Silverplate", "text": "Silverplate\n\nSilverplate was the code reference for the United States Army Air Forces' participation in the Manhattan Project during World War II. Originally the name for the aircraft modification project which enabled a B-29 Superfortress bomber to drop an atomic weapon, \"Silverplate\" eventually came to identify the training and operational aspects of the program as well. The original directive for the project had as its subject line \"Silver Plated Project\" but continued usage of the term shortened it to \"Silverplate\".\n\nTesting began with scale models at the Naval Proving Ground in Dahlgren, Virginia, in August 1943. Modifications began on a prototype Silverplate B-29 known as the \"Pullman\" in November 1943, and it was used for bomb flight testing at Muroc Army Air Field in California commencing in March 1944. The testing resulted in further modifications to both the bombs and the aircraft.\n\nSeventeen production Silverplate aircraft were ordered in August 1944 to allow the 509th Composite Group to train with the type of aircraft they would have to fly in combat, and for the 216th Army Air Forces Base Unit to test bomb configurations. These were followed by 28 more aircraft that were ordered in February 1945 for operational use by the 509th Composite Group. This batch included the aircraft which were used in the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945. Including the Pullman B-29, 46 Silverplate B-29s were produced during and after World War II. An additional 19 Silverplate B-29s were ordered in July 1945, which were delivered between the end of the war and the end of 1947. Thus, 65 Silverplate B-29s were made.\n\nThe use of the Silverplate codename was discontinued after the war, but modifications continued under a new codename, Saddletree. Another 80 aircraft were modified under this program. The last group of B-29s was modified in 1953, but never saw further service.\n\nThe Silverplate project was initiated in June 1943 when Dr. Norman F. Ramsey from the Los Alamos Laboratory's E-7 Group identified the Boeing B-29 Superfortress as the only airplane in the United States inventory capable of carrying either type of the proposed weapons shapes: the tubular shape of the Thin Man, or the oval shape of the Fat Man.\n\nPrior to the decision to use the B-29, serious consideration was given to using the British Avro Lancaster with its cavernous bomb bay to deliver the weapon. It would have required much less modification, but would have required additional crew training for the USAAF crews. Major General Leslie R. Groves Jr., the director of the Manhattan Project, and General Henry H. Arnold, the Chief of United States Army Air Forces (USAAF), wished to use an American plane, if this was at all possible.\n\nThe first B-29 was delivered to the USAAF on 1 July 1943, and Groves met with Arnold later that month. Groves briefed Arnold on the Manhattan Project, and asked for his help in testing the ballistics of the Project's proposed bomb shapes. Arnold and the head of the Ordnance Division at Los Alamos, Captain William S. Parsons, arranged for tests to be carried out at the Naval Proving Ground in Dahlgren, Virginia, in August 1943. No aircraft was available that could carry the long Thin Man, so a scale model was used. The results were disappointing – the bomb fell in a flat spin – but the need for a thorough test program was demonstrated.\n\nGroves met with Arnold again in September 1943. He informed Arnold that there was now a second bomb shape under consideration, the Fat Man, and formally requested that further tests be carried out, that not more than three B-29s be modified to carry the weapons, and that the USAAF form and train a special unit to deliver the bombs. Arnold delegated responsibility for this to Major General Oliver P. Echols. In turn, Echols designated Colonel Roscoe C. Wilson as the Project Officer.\nOriginally the name for the aircraft modification project for the B-29 to enable it to drop a nuclear weapon, Silverplate eventually came to identify the training and operational aspects of the program as well. The airplane modification project fell under the purview of the Manhattan Project's Project Alberta after March 1945. The original codename for the project was \"Silver Plated\" but continued usage of the term shortened it to the one word \"Silverplate\". For security reasons, the codename \"Silverplate\" was not officially registered. Confusion then resulted when the War Department allocated \"Silverplate\" to another project. Arnold's office had to order the other agency to discontinue its use of the codename.\n\nLos Alamos's Thin Man and Fat Man code names were adopted by the USAAF for the weapons. A cover story was devised that Silverplate was about modifying a Pullman car for use by President Franklin Roosevelt (Thin Man) and United Kingdom Prime Minister Winston Churchill (Fat Man) on a secret tour of the United States.\n\nThe USAAF sent instructions to its Army Air Forces Materiel Command at Wright Field, Ohio, on 30 November 1943, for a highly classified B-29 modification project. The Manhattan Project would deliver full-sized mockups of the weapons shapes to Wright Field by mid-December, where Army Air Forces Materiel Command would modify an aircraft and deliver it for use in bomb flight testing at Muroc Army Air Field in California. B-29-5-BW 42-6259 (referred to as the \"Pullman airplane\" from an internal code name assigned it by the Engineering Division of Army Air Forces Materiel Command) was delivered to the 468th Bombardment Group at Smoky Hill AAB, Kansas, on 30 November 1943, and flown to Wright Field on 2 December.\n\nModifications to the bomb bays of 42-6259 were extensive and time-consuming. Its four bomb bay doors and the fuselage section between the bays were removed and a single bomb bay configured. The length of the initial gun-type bomb shape was approximately , necessitating that it be carried in the aft bomb bay, with some of its length protruding into the forward bay. The implosion-type bomb was mounted in the forward bay. New bomb suspensions and bracing were attached for both shape types, and separate twin-release mechanisms were mounted in each bay, using modified glider tow-cable attach-and-release mechanisms.\n\nThe Pullman B-29 flew into Muroc on 20 February 1944, and testing began on 28 February. Twenty-four drops were carried out before tests were discontinued so that improvements could be made to Thin Man. The bombs failed to release immediately, frustrating calibration tests. In what turned out to be the last test flight of the series on 16 March, a Thin Man was prematurely released while the B-29 was still en route to the test range and fell onto the bomb bay doors, severely damaging the aircraft. The modified glider mechanisms had apparently caused all four malfunctions, because of the weight of the bombs, and were replaced with British Type G single-point attachments and Type F releases used on the Lancaster B.I Special to carry the Tallboy bomb.\n\nAfter repair of the Pullman B-29 at Wright Field, testing resumed with three Thin Man and nine Fat Man shapes dropped in the last two weeks of June 1944. High speed photographs revealed that the tail fins folded under the pressure, resulting in an erratic descent. Various combinations of stabilizer boxes and fins were tested on the Fat Man shape to eliminate its persistent wobble until an arrangement dubbed a \"California Parachute\", a cubical tail box with eight fins within the sheetmetal box \"frame\", 45° apart from each other (four \"orthogonal\" fins, and four more, one at each 45º angle to each corner) to the line of fall was approved.\n\nThe Thin Man gun-type design was at that time based on the fissibility of the very pure plutonium-239 isotope so far only produced in microgram quantities by the Berkeley cyclotron. When the Hanford production reactors came on-line in early 1944, the mix of plutonium-239 and plutonium-240 obtained was found to have a high rate of spontaneous fission. To avoid pre-detonation, the muzzle velocity of the gun-type design would need to be greatly raised, making it impractically long.\n\nThin Man as a plutonium-based design was therefore abandoned and the weapon was re-designed to use uranium-235. The muzzle velocity required was much lower, reducing the barrel length of the resulting bomb, now code-named Little Boy, to less than . This allowed the device to fit into a standard B-29 bomb bay, so the Pullman was modified to its original configuration with the rear bomb bay of a standard B-29 design. All subsequent Silverplates were also configured in this manner. The Pullman B-29 was flown to Wendover Army Air Field in Utah in September 1944. It carried out further drop testing with the 216th Army Air Forces Base Unit until it was damaged in a landing accident in December.\n\nOn 22 August 1944, to meet the requirements of the USAAF group about to be formed to train in the atomic mission, a production phase of Silverplate B-29s was ordered from the Glenn L. Martin Company's modification center at Omaha, Nebraska, under the designation Project 98146-S. The first three of these second increment Silverplate B-29s were delivered to the USAAF in mid-October, and flown to Wendover. They were fitted with British single-point bomb releases mounted on a re-designed H-frame suspension rack fitted in the forward bomb bay, so that additional fuel tanks could be carried in the aft bay. A new crew position, called the \"weaponeer station\", was created in the cockpit with a panel to monitor the release and detonation of the bomb during the actual combat drops. Fourteen production aircraft were assigned to the 393d Bombardment Squadron for training, and three to the 216th Army Air Force Base Unit for bomb drop testing.\n\nBy February 1945 the seventeen aircraft of the second increment were themselves in need of upgrades, particularly those of the 216th Army Air Force Base Unit. Four of the planes assigned to the 393d Bombardment Squadron (now part of the 509th Composite Group) were transferred to the 216th to meet an increase in its testing tempo. Rather than attempt to modify the existing aircraft a few at a time, a decision was made to start a new production series. The first five of this third increment, known as Project 98228-S, also went to the test unit. The order totaled an additional 28 aircraft, with delivery of 15 designated combat models for the 393d beginning in April. The final eight were not delivered until after the two atomic bomb missions in August. Two were given to the 216th while the remaining six were assigned to the 509th at Wendover as replacements for any bombers lost while operating from Tinian. Ironically, no bombers were lost during operations from Tinian, but five of these six were lost in crashes over the next few years.\nThe final wartime Silverplates incorporated all technical improvements to B-29 aircraft, as well as the final series of Silverplate modifications that included Curtiss Electric reversible-pitch propellers, and pneumatic actuators for rapid opening and closing of bomb bay doors. The British F-type bomb release and G-type attachment were installed, along with dual electrical and mechanical bomb release mechanisms. Early model B-29s were plagued by a host of engine problems, and the early Silverplate bombers were no exception. One was written off after being badly damaged as a result of an engine fire in February 1945. The fuel-injected Wright R-3350-41 engines in the later model bombers delivered in July and August 1945 were greatly improved and far more reliable. This was an important factor in the success of the 509th Composite Group's operations.\n\nThe Fat Man and Pumpkin bombs (non-nuclear bombs that resembled and handled like Fat Man) weighed over , so weight was a concern, even with the more powerful engines. Weight reduction was accomplished by removal of all gun turrets and armor plating. This work was done by the 509th Composite Group for the early Silverplate aircraft, but later models were delivered without them. These B-29s represented a significant increase in performance over the standard variants.\n\nFlying at put the B-29s above the effective range of Japanese flak. Each Pumpkin bomb mission was conducted by a formation of three aircraft in the hope of convincing the Japanese military that small groups of B-29s did not justify a strong response. This strategy proved successful, and Japanese fighters only occasionally attempted to intercept the 509th Composite Group's aircraft. One B-29 incurred minor battle damage in operations.\n\nIncluding the Pullman B-29, a total of 46 Silverplate B-29s were produced during World War II. Of these, 29 were assigned to the 509th Composite Group during World War II, with 15 used to carry out the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. An additional 19 Silverplate B-29s were ordered in July 1945, which were delivered between the end of the war, and the end of 1947. By this time only 13 of the original 46 were still operational. Thus, a total of 65 Silverplate B-29s were made, of which 32 were operational at the start of 1948. Martin-Omaha produced 57 Silverplate B-29s. The other 8 were built by Boeing-Wichita. Of these 65 bombers, 31 were eventually converted to other configurations, 16 were placed in storage and later scrapped, and 12 were lost in accidents (including four of the Tinian bombers). The pair of historic weapons delivery aircraft, named \"Enola Gay\" and \"Bockscar\", are today displayed in museums.\n\nThe only other United States Air Force combat unit to use the Silverplate B-29 was the 97th Bombardment Wing at Biggs Air Force Base in El Paso, Texas. In mid-1949 it received 27 of the aircraft from the 509th Bombardment Wing when the latter transitioned to B-50D bombers. The re-equipment of the 97th Bombardment Wing was part of an expansion of the atomic strike force to ten wings during 1949. Within a year all were converted to TB-29 trainers. One other Silverplate B-29, on temporary assignment in the United Kingdom, was converted into a weather reconnaissance aircraft (WB-29) and transferred to the 9th Bombardment Wing at Travis Air Force Base in California. The last Silverplate B-29 in service as a nuclear weapons carrier was reassigned to another role in November 1951, ending Silverplate after nearly eight years.\n\nUse of the codename Silverplate was discontinued in May 1947. It was superseded by a new codename, \"Saddletree\", which was applied to aircraft modifications only. Initially it was intended that Saddletree would refer only to modifications to the B-29s, but it came to be used for modifications to B-50 and B-36 bombers as well. Saddletree modifications included a new bomb bay frame and hoist, and replacing the British FG bomb release with the newly developed U-1 pneumatic bomb release mechanism. Due to delays in the delivery of the B-50s, Saddletree commenced in February 1948. In all, 6,000 hours of work was carried out on each of the 36 B-50s by Sacramento Air Materiel Area.\n\nThe Joint Chiefs of Staff issued a directive in January 1948 for the modification of 225 B-29, B-50, and B-36 bombers to carry nuclear weapons, along with eight C-97 Stratofreighter aircraft to carry bomb assembly teams. There were already 32 Silverplate B-29s in service with the Strategic Air Command, so the Air Materiel Command was directed to carry out Saddletree modifications on a further 80 B-29s, 36 B-50As, 23 B-50Bs and 18 B-36Bs. The B-36A could not carry nuclear weapons without major modifications.\n\nAs the anticipated enemy was the Soviet Union, the aircraft also required \"winterization\" to allow them to operate from Arctic bases. The project included 36 B-29s, and the modification of 36 others to have an air refueling capability. With the addition of the 80 Saddletree B-29s, a total of 145 B-29s were modified to carry nuclear weapons, and 117 of these were assigned to operational units.\n\nIn October 1951, in anticipation of a major build-up of the USAF to 95 groups, and of delays in the B-47 program, the Air Materiel Command was ordered to modify a further 180 B-29s then in storage to carry the Mark 4, Mark 5, Mark 6, and Mark 8 nuclear bombs. Modifications were carried out in Oklahoma City and Sacramento. By the time the aircraft were all delivered in September 1953, the B-29 was being phased out, and the modified aircraft went back into storage without seeing further service.\n\nIn 1945, a B-29 bomber cost $782,000. It cost $32,000 to upgrade an aircraft to Silverplate configuration, so the total cost of a Silverplate bomber was $814,000. The total cost of the 65 wartime Silverplate B-29s was therefore $53 million. Adding $7 million for logistics, this put the estimated cost of the Silverplate project at around $60 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "5833971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5833971", "title": "The Dialectic of Sex", "text": "The Dialectic of Sex\n\nThe Dialectic of Sex: The Case for Feminist Revolution (1970) is a book by the radical feminist Shulamith Firestone. Written over a few months when Firestone was 25, it has been described as a classic of feminist thought.\n\nFirestone argues that the \"sexual class system\" predates and runs deeper than any other form of oppression, and that the eradication of sexism will require a radical reordering of society: \"The first women are fleeing the massacre, and, shaking and tottering, are beginning to find each other. ... This is painful: no matter how many levels of consciousness one reaches, the problem always goes deeper. It is everywhere. ... feminists have to question, not just all of \"Western\" culture, but the organization of culture itself, and further, even the very organization of nature.\"\n\nThe goal of the feminist revolution, she wrote, must be \"not just the elimination of male privilege but of the sex distinction itself\" so that genital differences no longer have cultural significance.\n\nFirestone's theories have been described by philosophy professor Mary Anne Warren as follows: Firestone argues that the biological sexual dichotomy, particularly the biological division of labor in reproduction, is the root cause of male domination, economic class exploitation, racism, imperialism and ecological irresponsibility. Sexual inequality is \"an oppression that goes back beyond recorded history to the animal kingdom itself\": in this sense, it has been universal and inevitable, but the cultural and technological preconditions now exist that make its elimination possible and perhaps necessary for human survival.\n\nFirestone describes her approach as a dialectical materialism more radical than that of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. She believes that in their preoccupation with economic processes, Marx and Engels failed to perceive \"the sexual substratum of the historical dialectic.\" Unlike Engels, she maintains that male domination is biologically based and as such existed long before the institution of private property and the monogamous patriarchal family which private property produced. Male domination is the result of the \"biological family\", whether matrilineal or patrilineal, and the inevitable dependence of women and children within the family upon men, for protection if not subsistence. There were no ancient matriarchies (societies ruled by women), and the apparently superior status of women in matrilineal cultures is due only to the relative weakness of men. Whatever the lineage system, women's vulnerability during pregnancy and the long period of human infancy necessitate the protective and hence dominant role of the male.\n\nThis dependence of the female and the child on the male causes \"psychosexual distortions in the human personality\", distortions that were described by Sigmund Freud. Firestone describes Freudianism as a \"misguided feminism\", since she sees the only real difference between Freud's analysis and that of the radical feminists as being that Freud and his followers accept the social context in which sexual repression develops as immutable. Freud demonstrated that the source of repression and sex-class distinctions is the inherently unequal power relationship in the biological family: women and children are alike oppressed by the more powerful father. The young boy identifies first with the mother, whose oppression he shares, but soon switches his identification to the father, whose power he fears but will someday inherit. In the process he accedes to the incest taboo and the strict separation of sexuality and emotion which this requires, and which is the psychological foundation of political and ideological oppression. While the young girl also envies the father's power, she learns that she cannot inherit it and can only share in it indirectly, by currying favor with the dominant male.\n\nNot only are women and children both inevitably oppressed in the biological family, they are doubly oppressed by the particular form of it which prevails in the industrialized nations: the patriarchal nuclear family, which isolates each couple and their offspring. Compulsory schooling and the romantic mythology of childhood are devices which serve to prolong the isolation of children and their economic dependence. The socialist-feminist revolution will free both women and children, leaving them with complete economic independence and sexual freedom, and integrating them fully into the larger world. The end of the sex-class system must mean the end of the biological family, that is, the end of women's biological reproductive role through artificial means of gestation. Love between the sexes will remain, for it becomes oppressive only when joined to the reproductive function. The biological family turns sexual love into a tool of oppression. Within it, women give their love to men, thus inspiring the latter to greater cultural creativity, and providing the former with an emotional identity of the sort denied them in the larger world. Yet men, as a result of the Oedipus complex and the incest taboo, are unable to love: they must degrade the women they make love to, in order to distinguish them from the mother, the first and forbidden love object. They cannot simultaneously respect and be sexually attracted to women.\n\nThis is why the \"sexual revolution\" has not meant liberation for women, who are still bound by the double standard and the need to combine love and sexuality. By eliminating the biological family and the incest taboo, the feminist revolution will enlarge the opportunity for real heterosexual love, as well as legitimating every other type of voluntary sexual relationship. Firestone hesitates to make exact predictions about how children will be raised once they are no longer born of women in the biological family, but suggests that there will be a variety of child-rearing social units, including couples \"living together\" and households of unrelated persons, up to a dozen or so, who contract to remain together long enough to provide a home for their children until the latter are ready to enter the world, which they will do at a much earlier age than is now considered possible.\n\nThe feminist revolution presupposes socialism, but goes beyond it. Existing socialist societies have tried to expand women's roles without fundamentally altering them, to integrate women into a male world, rather than eliminating sex class altogether. The feminist revolution will end the split between the \"Aesthetic Mode\" (feminine, intuitive, and artistic) and the \"Technological Mode\" (masculine, empirical, and aimed at the control of nature through the comprehension of its mechanical laws). The end of sexual repression will free Eros to diffuse throughout and humanize the entire culture. Eventually it will lead not only to the end of alienated labor but of labor as such, defined as activity which is not performed for its own sake. Technology will eliminate domestic and other drudgery, leaving everyone free to do work which is intrinsically rewarding.\n\n\"The Dialectic of Sex\" is a feminist classic. Warren described it in 1980 as \"the clearest and boldest presentation thus far of the radical feminist position\". In 1998 Arthur Marwick ranked it as one of radical feminism's two key texts, along with Kate Millett's \"Sexual Politics\" (1969). Writing in \"The Cambridge Companion to Marx\" (1991), Jeff Hearn described Firestone's approach as having lasting significance in reviving interest in sexuality and reproduction as the basis of patriarchy.\n\nThe American journalist Susan Faludi wrote in 2013 that, although criticized for their radicalism, the basic tenets of \"The Dialectic of Sex\" have been of lasting significance. Firestone imagined reproduction outside the womb, and children being raised by collectives and granted the right to leave abusive situations. \"Predictably,\" Faludi wrote, \"the proposal[s] stimulated more outrage than fresh thought, though many of Firestone's ideas—children's rights, an end to 'male' work and traditional marriage, and social relations altered through a 'cybernetic' computer revolution—have proved prescient.\"\n\nJuliet Mitchell argued that Firestone misreads Freud, and misunderstands the implications of psychoanalytic theory for feminism. She noted that while Firestone, like Simone de Beauvoir, attributes the term \"Electra complex\" to Freud, it was actually coined by Carl Jung. Mitchell suggested that for Firestone, the only kind of reality is social actuality (the generic experience or accidental experience of the individual), and that in this respect Firestone's work closely resembles that of Wilhelm Reich. In Mitchell's view, Firestone's interpretation of Freud reduces his psychological constructs to the social realities from which they were reduced, thereby equating the Oedipus complex with the nuclear family. Firestone thus interprets Freudian \"metaphors\" such as the Oedipus complex in terms of power relations within the family, an approach Mitchell considered mistaken.\n\nIn her introduction to the 1998 edition of the book, Rosalind Delmar argued that Firestone's \"counter-explanation of problems observed by Freud relies too heavily on recourse to rationalizations\", and neglect the inner world of fantasy. In Delmar's view, the result of Firestone's discussion of Freud is that \"Freud is not so much refuted or rescued from his mistakes as ignored.\" Mary O'Brien, in her \"The Politics of Reproduction\" (1981), criticized Firestone's work for reductionism, biologism, historical inaccuracy, and general crudity.\n\nWriting in \"The Evolution of Human Sexuality\" (1979), the anthropologist Donald Symons attributed to Firestone the view that, although the sexes are identical at birth, men are emotionally crippled by early experiences that women escape, and that men, unlike women, are therefore unable to love. Symons contrasted Firestone's views with his own view that \"selection has produced marked sex differences in sexuality\" and that neither sex is a defective version of the other.\n\nIn an interview with Anne-Marie Cusac in \"The Progressive\", gay rights activist Urvashi Vaid identified \"The Dialectic of Sex\" as an influence on her work \"Virtual Equality\" (1995).\n\nAccording to Firestone, Valerie Solanas, author of the \"SCUM Manifesto\", told her that she disliked \"The Dialectic of Sex\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13907397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13907397", "title": "Timeline of the Saffron Revolution", "text": "Timeline of the Saffron Revolution\n\nThis article details the chronology of events in the 2007 Burmese anti-government protests.\n\nPrior to the summer protests, there had been growing unease in the population regarding the economic distress of the country which has stagnant economic growth and is ranked among the 20 poorest countries in the world according to the United Nations. Many, including the United Nations have blamed the economic problems on the inept leadership of the military junta that spends large amount of money maintaining one of the world's largest armies (said to total more than half the country's annual budget). In late 2006, the cost of basic commodities began rising sharply in Burma with rice, eggs, and cooking oil increasing by 30-40%. According to the UN, one in three children is chronically malnourished, government spending on health and education is among the lowest anywhere in the world, and the average income is below $300 a year. Living a privileged, parallel existence, Burma's military forces appear virtually a \"state within a state\", subject to none of the severe economic insecurity that afflicts the rest of the country. Many of the high ranking army generals have become immensely rich; as witnessed in the video of the wedding of senior general Than Shwe's daughter, who is shown wearing diamonds worth many millions of dollars.\n\nAccording to the BBC, on February 22, 2007, a small group of individuals protested the current state of consumer prices in the country. While the protest was small and careful not to be seen as directed at the military junta, officials jailed nine of the protesters. it was the first street protest seen in Rangoon for at least a decade.\n\nOn August 15, 2007 the government removed subsidies on fuel causing a rapid and unannounced increase in prices. The government, which has a monopoly on fuel sales, raised prices of fuel from about $1.40 to $2.80 a gallon, and boosted the price of natural gas by about 500%. This increase in fuel prices led to an increase in food prices. Soon afterwards, protesters took to the streets to protest the current conditions.\n\nWhile the International Monetary Fund and World Bank had been recommending the lifting of subsidies for some time to allow for a free market to determine fuel prices, these organizations did not recommend removing all of the subsidies unannounced. The fuel is sold by Myanma Oil and Gas Enterprise, a state-owned fuel company.\n\nIn response to the increase in fuel prices, citizens protested in demonstrations beginning on August 15. In response to the protests, the government began arresting and beating demonstrators. The government arrested 13 prominent Burmese dissidents including Min Ko Naing, Ko Ko Gyi, Min Zeya, Ko Jimmy, Pyone Cho, Arnt Bwe Kyaw and Ko Mya Aye. The government newspaper New Light of Myanmar reported that these individuals' actions caused civil unrest that \"was aimed at undermining peace and security of the State and disrupting the ongoing National Convention. The United States condemned the arrest of these dissidents on August 22 with the State Department's acting spokesman stating \"The United States calls for the immediate release of these activists and for an end of the regime's blatant attempt to intimidate and silence those who are engaged in peaceful promotion of democracy and human rights in Burma...We call on the regime to engage in a meaningful dialogue with the leaders of Burma's democracy movement and ethnic minority groups and to make tangible steps toward a transition to civilian democratic rule.\"\n\nOn September 5, 2007, Burmese troops forcibly broke up a peaceful demonstration in Pakokku and injured three monks. The next day, other monks later took government officials as hostages in retaliation. They demanded an apology by the deadline of September 17, but the military refused to apologize. This sparked protests involving increasing numbers of monks in conjunction with the withdrawal of religious services for the military. Their role in the protests has been significant due to the reverence paid to them by the civilian population and the military. After these events, protests began spreading across Myanmar, including Yangon (also known as Rangoon), Sittwe, Pakokku and Mandalay.\n\nOn September 22, around two thousand monks marched through Yangon and ten thousand through Mandalay, with other demonstrations in five townships across Myanmar. Those marching through the capital were allowed to pass the house of Nobel peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi. Although still under house arrest, Suu Kyi made a brief public appearance at the gate of her residence to accept the blessings of the Buddhist monks.\n\nOn September 23, 150 nuns joined the protests in Yangon. On that day, some 15,000 Buddhist monks and laymen marched through the streets of Yangon in the sixth day of escalating peaceful protests against the Burmese military regime. The Alliance of All Burmese Buddhist Monks have vowed to continue the protests until the Burmese military junta is deposed.\n\nOn September 24, eyewitnesses reported between 30,000 and 100,000 people demonstrating in Yangon, making the event the largest Burmese anti-government protest in twenty years. BBC reported that two locally well-known actors, comedian Zargana and film star Kyaw Thu, went to Yangon's golden Shwedagon Pagoda early on Monday to offer food and water to the monks before they started their march. The marches occurred simultaneously in at least 25 cities across Myanmar, with columns of monks stretching up to . At the end of the march, approximately 1,000 monks arrived to greet Aung San Suu Kyi's home but were denied access by police. They chanted prayers before peacefully moving off. Later that day, the military junta's Minister for Religion, Brigadier General Thura Myint Maung, warned the Buddhist monks leading the protests not to go beyond their \"rules and regulations\".\n\nMeanwhile, U.S. President George W. Bush was expected to introduce further unilateral sanctions against the Burmese leaders during his speech to the UN General Assembly. It has been noted that the Bush administration hopes to further embolden the protesters and encourage other countries to follow its lead.The Dalai Lama of Tibet also gave his blessing to the monks in their bid for greater freedom and democracy.\n\nOn September 25, the junta threatened demonstrators with military force and placed army trucks at Shwedagon Pagoda, the assembly point for monks leading the protests. Witnesses said 5,000 monks and laypeople still marched into the Shwedagon. Civilians were forming a human shield around the monks; Reuters quotes one eyewitness: \"They are marching down the streets, with the monks in the middle and ordinary people either side - they are shielding them, forming a human chain.\". Vehicles mounted with loudspeakers toured central Yangon, blaring warnings of military action. \"People are not to follow, encourage or take part in these marches. Action will be taken against those who violate this order,\" the broadcasts said, invoking a law allowing the use of military force to break up illegal protests. Reuters reported that the detained democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi had been moved to the Insein prison on Sunday, a day after she appeared in front of her house to greet marching monks.\n\nEffective September 26, Myanmar's junta imposed dusk-till-dawn curfews on the country's two largest cities of Yangon and Mandalay. Additionally, gatherings of more than five people were prohibited. Meanwhile, truckloads of armed soldiers and riot police were sent into Yangon.\n\nOn September 26 pro-democracy figure Win Naing was arrested at his home in Yangon around 2:30 a.m. after being seen providing food and water to the protesting monks but was released from jail after one night, according to an anonymous friend and Western diplomat. Win Naing is in his 70s and had been arrested on March 8 for holding a press conference with Burmese demonstrators against the national economic hardships. Prominent Burmese comedian Zargana was also arrested overnight. Troops barricaded Shwedagon Pagoda and attacked a group of 700 protesters with batons and tear gas. The police, beating their shields with batons, chased some of the monks and some 200 supporters, while others tried to remain in place near the eastern gate of the pagoda complex. Troops then sealed off the area around the pagoda, attempting to prevent the monks from making further protests. This failed to stop the marches, with up to 5,000 monks progressing through Yangon; some wearing masks in anticipation of tear gas being used.\n\nLater in the day there were reports of at least three Buddhist monks and one woman confirmed killed in the firing by security forces in Yangon when thousands of people led by Buddhist monks continued their protest against the military junta. A doctor in Yangon's general hospital confirmed that three injured monks have been admitted to the hospital after they were beaten up severely by the riot police at Shwedagon pagoda. The Swedish National Radio correspondent in Yangon reported that more than 300 people, many of whom are monks, have been detained. He also reported about a new kind of sentiment in Yangon: \"People come up to me quite spontaneously and voice their opinion in a way they never did before.\" ... \"People feel great admiration for the brave monks\" The Burma Campaign UK said its sources had reported the junta ordering large numbers of maroon monastic robes and telling soldiers to shave their heads, possibly to infiltrate the monks.\n\nOn September 27, the junta security forces began raiding monasteries across the country to quell the protests, arresting at least 200 monks in Yangon and 500 more in the northeast. There are reports that security forces raided at least five Buddhist monasteries including Ngwe Kya Yan in #3 Block 13th Street, South Okklapah Township and arrested over 200 monks. Security forces broke the wall of Ngwe Kya Yan monastery in a raid at about 0:15 a.m. (local time) Thursday morning. Several monks were injured during a clash between the security forces and the monks. \"Bleeding monks were forced into a vehicle. They couldn't cover themselves,\" a local resident told Mizzima. During the two-hour raid last night, monks rang the alarm bell and screamed for help. As the army has announced it would shoot anybody breaking the curfew, civilians did not dare to come to the aid of monks. Simultaneously, the army raided four other monasteries in parts of Yangon and arrested several monks. Sources confirmed that the army had raided the six storied Religious Science Monastery in Chaukhtatgyi Pagoda, Moe Kaung Monastery in Yan Kin township, Maggin Monastery in Thingankyun township, and Thein Phyu monastery in Thein Phyu area and arrested several monks. An anonymous diplomat also said the junta claimed soldiers now had the monks \"under control\" and \"would now turn their attention to civilian protesters\".\n\nAs the day moved on, by some accounts there were 50,000 protesters in Yangon. Protesters bleeding from beatings by security forces are seen scattering and fleeing in Sule. Security forces are reported to be preparing to use insect spray to crack down on protesters. Eyewitnesses said fire engines and insect spray carrier trucks were seen near Theingyi market in downtown Yangon. The BBC received unconfirmed reports that fire crews were ordered to fill their machines with insecticide.\n\nAccording to several news media the armed forces gave the protesters 10 minutes to disperse or face extreme action. The radio station Democratic Voice of Burma reported that nine civilians, including Japanese photographer Kenji Nagai, had been shot and killed by the armed forces. Nagai was working for APF Tsushin, a media company based in Tokyo. The Japanese embassy in Myanmar later confirmed Nagai's death. Amateur video showing Nagai apparently being deliberately shot was aired on Japanese television. Later footage also showed how a Burmese soldier took Nagai's video camera.\n\nSoldiers fired both into the air and directly at students marching toward a high school in Tamwe township in Yangon. Primary school children were inside the school at the time and were reportedly hit by bullets, as were parents arriving to pick up their children. Unconfirmed eyewitness reports say 100 people were shot. Up to 300 of the students outside were arrested after a military truck rammed into the crowd.\n\nSome 50,000 protesters are reported to have demonstrated peacefully in Akyab while soldiers were stationed at seven key places, including government buildings, Lawkanada temple, and Akyi Tong Kong temple.\n\nIn the evening, the Burmese state television reported that nine people have been killed in a force crackdown on pro-democracy protesters in Yangon. It added that eleven demonstrators and 31 soldiers had been injured.\n\nAt the end of the day, it was reported that the junta has formed new regiments to crack down on protesters. According to sources close to the military, Senior General Than Shwe is now directly commanding soldiers after several commanders refused to use force to crack down on protesters. UK newspaper \"The Guardian\" published a report of a letter received by Burmese exiles in Thailand. The letter, allegedly written by disgruntled military officers, expressed support for the protests and read in part, \"On behalf of the armed forces, we declare our support for the non-violent action of the Buddhist monks and members of the public and their peaceful expression...\". The letter also announced the formation of a group called the Public Patriot Army Association. The \"Guardian\" was unable to confirm the authenticity of the letter itself before the story was published.\n\nThere are unconfirmed reports that Than Shwe's family have fled to a foreign country. A chartered Air Bagan flight carrying eight special passengers landed in Vientiane, Laos, at 6 p.m. (local time). Air Bagan is owned by Than Shwe's right hand business tycoon Tay Za.\n\nThe United Nations' special envoy to Myanmar, Ibrahim Gambari, was allowed into the country after the Burmese authorities bowed to international pressure. He was sent to Myanmar after the Security Council convened in New York over the crisis to call for restraint.\n\nOn September 28, Yangon was unusually empty as people were afraid of violent reprisals from the army. The President of the Philippines Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo urged Myanmar \"to take steps toward democracy\". U.S. envoys called on China to use its influence with Myanmar.\n\nThe Myanmar government attempted to dampen public awareness and communications around the protests by cutting Internet access. Troops specifically targeted those caught carrying cameras and beat them. On September 28, after the killing of Japanese photographer Kenji Nagai by the junta, Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda said he regretted the killing and demanded a full explanation of his death. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations was urged to join the push for a UN mission to Myanmar, while the United Nations Security Council urged restraint from the government.\n\nThere are reports that Burmese troops from middle Myanmar started to march towards Yangon. The troops were from the Central Command based in Taungoo and the South East Command. It was not clear if the troops were marching to reinforce or to challenge the troops in Yangon for shooting the Buddhist monks.\n\nVice Senior-General Maung Aye, Than Shwe's second in command and the commander in chief of the army, reportedly disagreed with the violent approach taken against protestors, and is reported to be scheduled to meet with Aung San Suu Kyi, who was reportedly taken to Yemon Military Camp on the outskirts of Yangon. Another report claimed Maung Aye had staged a coup against Than Shwe, that his troops were guarding Aung San Suu Kyi's home, and that diplomatic sources said that Aung San Suu Kyi had been moved to a police academy compound outside Yangon; although no independent confirmation has been made on the report.\n\nHelfen ohne Grenzen (Help without Frontiers) reported that \"Soldiers from the 66th LID (Light Infantry Division) have turned their weapons against other government troops and possibly police in North Okkalappa township in Yangon and are defending the protesters. At present unsure how many soldiers involved.\" While soldiers from 33rd LID in Mandalay are also reported to have refused orders to take actions against protesters, other reports state many soldiers remained in their barracks. Later reports stated that soldiers from the 99th LID were being sent in to confront them.\n\nA report warned that the military will attempt \"to trick UN envoys by asking their followers to carry out a set-up protest - protesting against the genuine demonstrations. SPDC followers will force the civilians to join in also.\" The same source states compulsory attendance of one person per family in some parts of the town is being demanded. In view of the Internet blackout, a group of \"88-generation activists\" are now urging the United Nations, along with the United States and United Kingdom embassies in Yangon to open a one-page Web service via Wi-Fi access to the general public just to submit news photos. The blog site confirms from different sources that soldiers and police were officially ordered not to shoot at the crowd.\n\nIt has also been reported that the UN envoys will be meeting Lieutenant Senior General Maung Aye, the second chief of the junta.\n\nThe BBC has reported that several hundred people gathered in Yangon and that eyewitness reports said demonstrators were surrounded by security forces and pro-military vigilante groups. United Nations Special Envoy Ibrahim Gambari has arrived in Yangon and was due to fly immediately to Naypyidaw to talk with the junta generals. Eyewitnesses have told the BBC that over 1,000 people were demonstrating against the government. There have been fresh reports of new violence; the French news agency AFP stated that security forces charged a group of around 100 protesters on the Pansoedan bridge in central Yangon. \"They beat people so badly,\" one eyewitness told the agency.\n\nApproximately 5,000 people gathered to demonstrate in Mandalay. The military is reported to have locked up and put most monasteries under guard to prevent egress. People gathered at 80th, 84th, 35th, and 33rd Streets, before joining together; three military trucks followed behind them and tried to break up the demonstrators, arresting one student who attempted to cross the road in front of them. The military forced monks from outside Mandalay to return to their native towns, the military are keeping the homes of NLD Party leaders under guard. Peaceful demonstrations were reported in Mandalay, no shooting was reported. The Ngwe Kyar Yan Monastery in South Okkalarpa which was subject to a raid some days ago is now being repaired, some believe, in an effort to eliminate evidence. A dedicated group of anti-riot troops is reported to have been formed within Brigate-77 led by Col. Thein Han under Minister Aung Thaung and General Htay Oo's supervision. Agricultural Minister General Maung Oo and Minister of Information Brig. General Kyaw Hsan is said to be in charge of arresting monks at night.\n\nOnly an hour after his scheduled arrival at Yangon, it was reported that Ibrahim Gambari, the UN Secretary-General's special adviser on Myanmar, had arrived in Naypyidaw to talk with the junta leaders. White House National Security Council Spokesman Gordon Johndroe has stated that \"We have concerns that Mr. Gambari was swiftly moved from Rangoon (Yangon) to the new capital in the interior, far from population centres\" and urged the junta to allow Gambari wide access to people, religious leaders and Aung San Suu Kyi. When asked if he expected to meet Suu Kyi, Gambari said: \"I expect to meet all the people that I need to meet.\"\n\nAn early report indicates that the junta has denied Gambari a meeting with Aung San Suu Kyi. In addition, the army, late at night, set up a machine-gun nest outside her house.\n\nAn audio message from inside Myanmar says crying crematorium workers say they were forced by soldiers to burn injured (but presumably still living) protesters and civilians to death in YaeWay crematorium on the outskirts of Yangon. The \"Times Online\" later reported that it was \"widely accepted that the cremations began on the night of Friday, September 28\", but the reports of people being burned alive were being \"treated with extreme caution by independent observers and have not been verified\". In Yangon, soldiers rerouted the Sule bus stop to Thamada Cinema in an effort to keep people away from Sule pagoda. Some bus drivers were not informed of this change, and passengers getting off at the old stop were beaten upon dismounting. In Mandalay, non-monk prisoners were taken to a field and a barber was asked to shave their heads so that they could be dressed as monks and forced to create confusion and mistrust of real monks.\n\nMonks and civilians are reported to have called diplomats to state that troops had arrived at three monasteries but had been prevented from entering by local residents who had massed outside. Making threats of returning in larger numbers, the soldiers then departed.\n\nMizzima news reported that in Mandalay, the NLD divisional organising committee member Win Mya Mya was arrested by police sub-Inspector Tun Lwin Naung at 11 p.m. last night at her home. \"She seemed to know in advance of her imminent arrest. She is prepared and took her clothes with her,\" her sister Tin Win Yee, told reporters, \"I am worried about her. This month is the period of Ramadan and she is being treated for her injury sustained in the Depayin incident\".\n\nCitizens in Myitkyina and other townships in northern Myanmar were coerced into joining pro-government rallies designed to manufacture a show of support for a national convention, though most of the speeches were simply condemnations from junta leaders of the uprisings. Two people from each household were required to attend. \"We were warned that we would be punished if we didn't come to the rally. So we attended it because we were afraid,\" said one resident.\n\nNgwe Kyar Yan Monastery in Rangoon, where some 200 monks were detained in the early morning two days earlier, is reported to have been looted by soldiers. Everything of value is said to have been removed, including forty or more Buddha statues and the head of one of the largest Buddhas which contains valuable jewels.\n\nThe largest demonstration in the country at Kyaukpadaung, Mandalay Division, numbered about 30,000 and was led by around 1,000 monks. The demonstrators marched peacefully despite heavy presence by security forces and military troops.\n\nSome 10,000 farmers in Wra Ma, 30 miles north of Taungup, southern Rakhine State, were reported to have joined hands to protest against the government. The demonstrators are said to have been angry at the government's action against monks in Yangon. The report states the authorities in Taungup sent a platoon of police to the village soon after they received the information about the demonstration.\n\nContrary to earlier reports, UN envoy Ibrahim Gambari has at last been allowed to meet with imprisoned Nobel laureate and elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi. The two spoke for ninety minutes at the State guest house in Yangon after Gambari returned from talks with the junta in the more remote capital of Naypyidaw. Gambari met with acting Prime Minister Thein Sein, Culture Minister Khin Aung Myint and Information Minister Kyaw Hsan, but has not been given audience with senior general Than Shwe, which could mean that either Than Shwe is boycotting the UN's right to involvement by not meeting Gambari personally or, in line with earlier, unconfirmed reports, that there are rifts developing in the upper levels of power within the junta and the other three figures now hold more power.\n\nFollowing telephone talks with the UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown, the Premier of the People's Republic of China, Wen Jiabao, announced: \"China hopes all parties concerned in Myanmar show restraint, resume stability through peaceful means as soon as possible, promote domestic reconciliation and achieve democracy and development\". Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief, urged China to lean harder on Myanmar. Mark Canning, the United Kingdom's ambassador in Myanmar, told the BBC of the deep underlying political and economic reasons for the demonstrations, which he said would not go away easily; \"The cork has been put in the bottle, but the pressures are still there.\"\n\nMeanwhile, the former US ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton, attending Britain's opposition Conservative Party conference in Blackpool, told BBC television that China is the key to political change in Myanmar, not UN envoy Ibrahim Gambari who has met the military junta.\n\nColonel Hla Win, a central member of the military junta, is reportedly interested in seeking political asylum in Norway. The colonel is said to have defected recently, and is now hiding in the jungle with rebels of the Karen people. The colonel defected after being ordered to raid two monasteries and detain hundreds of monks. According to the colonel, these monks were to be killed and dumped in the jungle.\n\nAn eyewitness in Yangon says a monastery on Wei-za-yan-tar Road was raided early this morning. Monks studying inside were ordered out and one by one had their heads bashed against the brick wall of the monastery. Their robes were torn off and they were thrown in trucks and driven away. The head monk is confirmed to have died later that day. Only 10 of 200 remained afterward, hiding inside, and the ground was covered with blood. Many civilians who had gathered to help were held back by the military with bayonets.\n\nThe Japanese Deputy Foreign Minister Mitoji Yabunaka, in Myanmar because of the death of Kenji Nagai, arrived in Naypyidaw to speak to government leaders.\n\nThe barricades around the Shwedagon Pagoda were removed, witnesses told Reuters, but soldiers were still stationed at the four entrances. Monks say at least five of their brethren have been killed during the clashes with security forces during the protests. Eyewitnesses say troops and police are still positioned at many street corners and key locations around Yangon, making it impossible for demonstrators to gather.\n\nThe United Nations envoy Ibrahim Gambari is still waiting to see Myanmar's military junta chief, Than Shwe; it is not clear why he has not yet been granted an audience. Mark Canning, the British ambassador to Myanmar, says China is pushing hard for Gambari's mission to be as long and as far-reaching as possible.\nThousands of heavily armed soldiers are reported to be patrolling the streets of Yangon, and there are no signs of protests against the junta. The troops are stopping pedestrians and car drivers and searching them for cameras. The internet and mobile phone networks are still largely disrupted. General Than Shwe is expected to meet Ibrahim Gambari on Tuesday, officials say.\n\nAround 4,000 monks are said to have been rounded up by the military during the last week in an attempt to stamp out the protests. They are being held at a disused race course and a technical college. A \"BBC\" report said sources from a government-sponsored militia stated they would soon be moved away from Yangon. The monks have been disrobed and are shackled, sources told the \"BBC Radio\" Burmese service. The Democratic Voice of Burma, the banned opposition broadcaster, has published a photograph which they say shows the body of a monk floating near the mouth of the Yangon river.\n\n5,000 protesters are reported to have gathered in the town of Man Aung, Rakhine State, in the morning. At 9 a.m. they marched while holding two banners displaying their demands; for the release of all political prisoners, a reduction in commodity prices, and national reconciliation. The demonstration finished at 11 a.m.\n\nThree people were arrested at a protest in Sanchaung Township in Yangon a report in \"The Irrawaddy\" stated.\n\nIbrahim Gambari met with Aung San Suu Kyi for a second time, just hours after returning from talks with Than Shwe in Naypyidaw, where he conveyed concerns over the violent crackdown.\n\nA report about imprisoned monks in Myanmar stated they were refusing to touch food given them by the military, and by doing so symbolically maintain their boycott of the regime.\n\nMyanmar prime minister General Soe Win, reportedly died of leukemia in Rangoon Defense Hospital, Mingladon, Yangon. But other sources claimed the rumours were false.\n\nThe Human Rights Council met and discussed the situation in Myanmar during a Special session, and passed a resolution deploring the violent repression of peaceful demonstrations, and urging the release of all those arrested during the demonstrations.\n\nA \"BBC\" report stated Gambari is currently in Singapore for a brief meeting with Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, but has not spoken with journalists. The report stated he is preparing a key report on his talks with Burma's leaders and is likely to brief the UN Security Council later this week. A spokeswoman said that he will meet UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon on Thursday and may brief the Security Council on Friday, the French news agency AFP said.\n\nReports from Yangon have stated some 25 monks were arrested by security forces in a raid on a temple overnight. As a result of the military crackdown on anti-government protests, \"[s]cores of monks\" are trying to leave Yangon, a \"BBC\" report stated, many monks were at the railway station because bus drivers refused to carry them as passengers, fearing they would not be allowed petrol. Since daybreak military vehicles fitted with loudspeakers patrolled Rangoon's streets blaring: \"We have photographs. We are going to make arrests.\" Some 80 monks and 149 women thought to be nuns, who had been detained during part of the military's crackdown on protesters, had been freed, Reuters reported.\n\nRiot police and soldiers are reported to be scouring Yangon with photographs to identify and arrest participants in last week's protests. Yangon is patrolled day and night, and troops are still stationed at major road junctions and places like the Sule pagoda, the report states.\n\nA report about nightly actions against demonstrators quoted one resident who said: \"The repression is continuing every night. When there are no more witnesses, they drive through the suburbs at night and kill the people.\" The report stated that there is hunger and misery, many of the monks who demonstrated last week came from Okalapa Township and after suppressing Yangon centre on September 29, troops turned their attention to that township the following day.\n\nThe body of the Japanese journalist, Kenji Nagai, has been returned to Japan, a \"BBC\" report stated. An autopsy will try to determine the exact cause of his death; Japanese officials said that he was not shot accidentally as Burmese authorities have said, but was shot at close range. APF News, who employed Nagai, are demanding that the camera he held in his hand when he was killed be returned; so far only his second camera, thought to be a back-up, has been returned. Toru Yamaji, the head of APF News, said: \"Our biggest task now is to confirm and report on what's in [his camera] and what he wanted to tell the people on his last day\".\n\nAnother report from the \"BBC\" stated that up to 10,000 people, many of them monks who led the protests, had been \"rounded up for interrogation in recent days\". United States diplomats who visited 15 monasteries found them empty, while others were being barricaded and guarded by soldiers, the report said.\n\nMeanwhile, a Burmese army major has revealed that secret codes were issued ordering the military to shoot and kill protesting monks in Rangoon.\n\nThe opposition rejected the junta's conditional offer of talks with Aung San Suu Kyi. Shari Villarosa, the United States top diplomat in Myanmar, has been invited to talk with the military leaders. The envoy will 'clearly convey Washington's condemnation of last week's bloody repression' a US spokesperson said. The invitation follows a state television broadcast stating nearly 2,100 people had been arrested over the last week and some 700 had now been freed.\n\nReuters report that protesters who applauded the demonstrations could face two to five years in jail, while the leaders could face 20 years. The Democratic Voice of Burma forwarded reports of some 50 students who demonstrated in Mandalay who had been sentenced to five years hard labor.\n\nSome 60 troops from a battalion based in Akyab are reported to have been sent to the town of Man Aung, on Man Aung Island, to deal with demonstrations that continued for three days, ending on October 2.\n\nAfter meeting with many of the parties involved Ibrahim Gambari returned to New York and briefed the Security Council about his visit. The ambassador from Myanmar said that of his country had it had \"indeed [experienced] a daunting challenge. However, we have been able to restore stability. The situation has now returned to normalcy. Currently, people all over the country are holding peaceful rallies within the bounds of the law to welcome the successful conclusion of the national convention, which has laid down the fundamental principles for a new constitution, and to demonstrate their aversion to recent provocative demonstrations.\"\n\nYangon residents were reported to be \"keeping up a low-key resistance\", harassing troops by tossing rocks at them. In response, security forces detained some of the rock throwers. The retired General, U Aung Kyi, currently serving as Deputy Minister of Labor, was appointed as an official go-between for talks between Aung San Suu Kyi and the military junta on 8 October 2007.\n\nYe Min Tun, a foreign ministry official for ten years, told the BBC how \"appalling\" treatment of Buddhist monks during last month's protests forced him to resign from the military regime. Asked whether he thought the pro-democracy movement was now finished, the diplomat said: \"I think it's not the end. I think it's just the beginning of the revolution.\"\n\nSouth African president Nelson Mandela withdrew an invitation to Gary Player to host a fundraising golf tournament because of the former British Open champion's business links with Burma.\n\nThere are reports that a member of the National League for Democracy, named Win Shwe, 42, died during interrogation in the central Myanmar region of Sagaing. He and five colleagues were arrested on September 26. White House foreign affairs spokesman Gordon Johndroe said \"The United States strongly condemns the atrocities committed by the junta and calls for a full investigation into the death of Win Shwe during his detention in Burma. The junta must stop the brutal treatment of its people and peacefully transition to democracy or face new sanctions from the United States.\" Witnesses claim that security forces are raiding houses in search of anyone whom they suspect to have been involved in the protests.\nThe body of Win Shwe was not released, Thailand-based Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) said. \"His body was not sent to his family and the interrogators indicated that they had cremated it instead.\" Fears are being expressed for others still held in police custody.\n\nSources are claiming that five military generals and more than 400 soldiers of Sikai Division near Mandalay have been jailed for refusing to shoot and beat monks and civilians during the protests. Many civil servants are also staying away from work to show their disapproval of the junta's action.\nRolls Royce also made an official statement today that it was ceasing all business dealings with the junta. It said it would cease aircraft engine repair work and terminate a contract involving the lease of an aircraft to a Burmese airline. A spokesman said last night: \"At that point, Rolls-Royce will have no further involvement in Burma.\"\n\nThe Security Council met and issued a statement and reaffirmed its \"strong and unwavering support for the Secretary-General's good offices mission\", especially the work by Ibrahim Gambari It also \"strongly deplore[d] the use of violence against peaceful demonstrations in Myanmar\", welcomed the Human Rights Council of 2 October 2007, and \"emphasize[d] the importance of the early release of all political prisoners and remaining detainees\", as well as urging the junta to prepare for a \"genuine dialogue\" with democratically elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi. Although a statement does not have the power of a resolution, it requires the consent of all its members and has been seen as a shift in position of China. Official government-run media in Burma called the UN statement \"regrettable,\" and stated that more than half of those arrested during the protests have since been released.\n\nMilitary rulers have arrested what is thought to be the last four known leaders, part of the \"88 Students Generation\" activists of the 1988 pro-democracy uprising. Those detained include prominent woman activist Thin Thin Aye (also known as Mie Mie), Aung Htoo and Htay Kywe. Amnesty International has issued a statement expressing grave concern for their safety and for others still being held.\n\nThousands have attended a \"pro-government\" rally in Rangoon. It is widely believed to have been organised by the junta and it is claimed that many of the participants are being forced to attend. Burmese dissident groups claim that the numbers who attended the rally is much smaller than the governments figures. They also claim that people have been bussed to the rallies by the junta and coerced with bribes of money and threatened with losing their jobs and homes. AFP news agency also reported that every factory in the city's industrial zone had each been obliged to send 50 participants to the rally.\n\nAmnesty International issued a revised statement saying that six dissidents have now been arrested in Yangon over the weekend. They said: \"Continued arrests fly in the face of the promises made this week by the Myanmar authorities to cooperate with the United Nations.\"\n\nGambari is expected to arrive in Bangkok to prepare for what he hopes will be a return visit to Myanmar, just two weeks after his last high-profile visit. The US Secretary of State and the White House wanted him to return there ahead of his plans to tour other southeast Asian capitals.\n\nGambari arrived in Thailand and issued a statement describing the latest arrests in Yangon as \"extremely disturbing\" [and] \"counter to the spirit of mutual engagement\" between the UN and Burma. He has a meeting scheduled to meet military officials in Burma in mid November but the UN is hoping that they will allow him to bring the visit forward. Meanwhile, PM Gordon Brown is pushing the EU to propose tougher sanctions on Burma ahead of an EU meeting in Luxembourg. The EU will be discussing the banning of imports of gemstones, timber and metals.\n\nThe EU have announced an agreement for further sanctions against the military junta but some have conceded that its leverage with Burma is limited and sanctions have so far controversially steered clear of its energy sector of which French oil giant Total is currently a major investor.\n\nJapan has cancelled funding of more than $4.7 m for a human resources centre based in Rangoon University. Chief Cabinet Secretary Nobutaka Machimura said the decision was made in response to the recent military action in Burma. A White House spokesman today said the US is considering toughening its own existing sanctions. Meanwhile, ASEAN has said it will not consider suspending Myanmar as a member, and rejected any proposal for economic sanctions. Burma says it arrested approximately 100 monks in recent weeks and that only 10 people have died, but it is absolutely clear that the real figures are much much higher.\n\nThree high-profile demonstrators have been released by the Burmese government; Zagana, a prominent comedian along with actor Kyaw Thu, and his wife were said to have been released late on Wednesday. In a published statement the junta stated: \"Those who led, got involved in and supported the unrest which broke out in September are being interrogated.\" [and] \"Some are still being called in for questioning and those who should be released will be.\" Officials now claim that a total of 2,927 people had been detained and nearly 500 were still being held, this is an increase of almost 800 since last official figures released on October 8. Those released had been asked to sign a \"pledge\" first.\n\nReports in the \"Democratic Voice of Burma\" claim that the NLD party chairman U Kyaw Khine, and secretary Ko Min Aung, have both been sentenced to seven and a half years imprisonment. U Htun Kyi and U Than Pe, two members of the NLD organising committee in Sandoway township, were sentenced to four and half years, while another party member from Gwa township, U Sein Kyaw, is standing trial. A total of around 280 party members were arrested, including 50 members in Kyaukse township in Mandalay Division, while others are reportedly on the run. Whilst reporting the same news, \"The Irrawaddy\" added a report about U Indriya, a monk from Sait-Ta-Thuka monastery, who is said to be one of the leaders of a peaceful demonstration in Sittwe. As a result, he has been sentenced to seven and a half years imprisonment.\n\nTwo former schoolteachers, Tin Maung Oo and Ni Ni Mai, appeared in court after they spoke out against a pro-government rally in Paung Tal township, Bago division. On October 16 at about 5am, a pro-government group were marching past the teachers house, shouting slogans denouncing the monk-led demonstrations and supporting the National Convention. The protestors stopped at seeing a sign hung outside by Maung Oo, which denounced those who tortured and killed monks and civilians. Ni Ni Mai stood in the doorway and asked the protestors if 'they really agreed with the killing of monks and civilians in Rangoon' at which the protestors stopped chanting slogans and some of them dropped their placards. A leader of the government protest is reported to have taken photographs of the couple and their house; later that day the township police chief and two female police officers came to arrest them. The couple are due to appear in court for sentencing on October 30.\n\nPresident Bush has announced further sanctions against the Burmese military. He has tightened export controls and frozen more financial assets held by the junta and urged China and India to apply more pressure. In a White House statement he said: \"Monks have been beaten and killed. \"Thousands of pro-democracy protesters have been arrested\". \"Burma's rulers continue to defy the world's just demand to stop their vicious persecution\". \"We are confident that the day is coming when freedom's tide will reach the shores of Burma.\"\n\nA senior British diplomat told the BBC that some 2,500 people are still being held by the military. British officials also received first-hand accounts of grim conditions under which many detainees are still being held. Night raids are said to be continuing with hundreds being arrested.\n\nBurma's military announced the lifting of a curfew in two main cities, Mandalay and Rangoon. The statement is being widely seen as a sign that the government is confident that it has now gained control of the recent dissent. However it is unclear whether the recent government ban on assemblies of more than five people had also been lifted.\n\nIt has been announced that the UN Human rights expert Paolo Sergio Pinheiro is to be allowed to visit Burma. Burmese Foreign Minister Nyan Win wrote to the UN stating that Pinheiro could arrive before mid-November. This will be the first visit by Pinheiro in four years, previously the military junta has refused to give their permission. Pinheiro welcomed news of his invitation, telling Reuters news agency that it was \"an important sign that the government wants to engage again in constructive dialogue with the UN and the Human Rights Council\". The BBC's Laura Trevelyan reports from the UN that the timing of the invitation is significant, a summit of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean) is due to open on 17 November. The regime may believe that the move could reduce further criticism from members of Asean.\n\nRights groups report that hundreds of ethnic minority tribespeople are fleeing Burma into the border state of Mizoram, India to escape the military regime. They claim that they are being forced to join pro-government rallies, in some cases at gunpoint, and if they refuse they face fines of up to 10,000 kyats [$7]; while others have been arrested including Christian pastors. Many of the exodus are from the Christian minority ethnic Chin people who say they have been persecuted by the junta for being Christians and non-ethnic Burmese. Although they were initially welcomed in Mizoram after the 1988 military crackdown they now face threats of a pushback, as the Mizos, (who are ethnic cousins of Chins), are now strongly opposing \"unrestricted migration from the Chin State\" for fear that they may one day be outnumbered by them.\n\nMeanwhile, India has been accused of allowing its strategic and business interests to prevail in Burma, and for failing to put pressure on the generals.\n\nHundreds of riot police and troops armed with rifles and teargas launchers are said to be back in force on the streets of Rangoon and are also said to be surrounding the Shwedagon and Sule pagodas, that were the focal point of peaceful demonstrations led by Buddhist monks last month. The military police are also said to have large coils of barbed wire ready to block streets, though according to Reuters there are no new protest developments. The troop presence coincides with the end of Buddhist Lent, and is thought to be aimed at preventing new protests. It also comes a day after detained pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi met a military officer for talks. State Councilor for China, Tang Jiaxuan told Gambari of the UN, (who is expected to return to Burma in early November), that words were the way forward. \"The Myanmar issue, after all, has to be appropriately resolved by its own people and government through their own efforts of dialogue and consultation.\"\n\nMore than 100 buddhist monks marched through the central town of Pakokku, northwest of Yangon. The first time they have returned to the streets since the crack-down by the junta in September. One monk who was on the march told the Democratic Voice of Burma, a Norway-based radio station run by dissident journalists: \"We are continuing our protest from last month as we have not yet achieved any of the demands we asked for. \"Our demands are for lower commodity prices, national reconciliation and immediate release of [pro-democracy leader] Aung San Suu Kyi and all the political prisoners.\" Thai-based director of the Human Rights Education Institute of Burma, Aung Nyo Min said \"This is very significant... we are very encouraged to see the monks are taking up action and taking up peaceful demonstrations in Burma.\"\n\nThe military regime in Burma are to expel the United Nations' top diplomat in the country, UN officials have said. UN's Burma country chief, Charles Petrie, to Naypyidaw the new capital to tell him his mandate was not going to be renewed. It is not clear when he will have to leave. Mr Petrie is known to have voiced his concerns over the junta's violent break up of peaceful demonstrations in September: \"The events clearly demonstrated the everyday struggle to meet basic needs and the urgent necessity to address the deteriorating humanitarian situation in the country,\" Mr Petrie's statement said, 24 October, United Nations Day.\n"}
