{"id": "3564374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3564374", "title": "\"I AM\" Activity", "text": "\"I AM\" Activity\n\nThe \"I AM\" Movement is the original Ascended Master Teachings religious movement founded in the early 1930s by Guy Ballard (1878–1939) and his Edna Anne Wheeler Ballard (1886–1971) in Chicago, Illinois. It is an offshoot of theosophy and a major precursor of several New Age religions including the Church Universal and Triumphant. The movement had up to a million followers in 1938 and is still active today on a smaller scale. According to the official website of the parent organization, the Saint Germain Foundation, its worldwide headquarters is located in Schaumburg, Illinois, and there are approximately 300 local groups worldwide under several variations of the names \"I AM\" Sanctuary, \"I AM\" Temple, and other similar titles. As of 2007, the organization states that its purpose is \"spiritual, educational and practical,\" and that no admission fee is charged for their activities. The term \"I AM\" is a reference to the ancient Sanskrit mantra \"So Ham\", meaning \"I Am that I Am\".\n\nThe movement believes in the existence of a group called the Ascended Masters, a hierarchy of supernatural beings that includes the original Theosophical Masters such as Jesus Christ, El Morya Khan, Maitreya, and in addition several dozen more beyond the original 20 Masters of the Ancient Wisdom of the original Theosophists as described by Helena Petrovna Blavatsky.\n\nThese \"Ascended Masters\" are believed to be humans who have lived in a succession of reincarnations in physical bodies. Over time they became highly advanced souls, able to move beyond the cycles of \"re-embodiment\" and karma, and attained their \"Ascension\", becoming immortal. The Ascended Masters are believed to communicate to humanity through certain trained messengers per Blavatsky, including Guy and Edna Ballard. Because Jesus is believed to be one of the Ascended Masters, making the \"Christ Light\" available to seekers who wish to move out of darkness, many of the members of the \"I AM\" Activity consider it to be a Christian religion. According to the \"Los Angeles Magazine\", Ballard said he was the re-embodiment of George Washington, an Egyptian priest, and a noted French musician.\n\nThe \"I AM\" Activity was the continuation of the teachings received by H. P. Blavatsky and William Quan Judge. Ballard was always guided and inspired by the writings of William Quan Judge (1851-1896), who used the pseudonym David Lloyd due to the persecution of his enemies in the Theosophical Society. Then Ballard came in contact with the Mahatma called \"Ascended Master\" Saint Germain.\n\nBallard died in 1939. In 1942 his wife and son were convicted of fraud, a conviction which was overturned in a landmark Supreme Court decision, ruling that the question of whether the Ballards believed their religious claims should not have been submitted to a jury.\n\nThe \"I AM\" Activity was founded by Guy Ballard (pseudonym Godfré Ray King) in the early 1930s. Ballard was well-read in theosophy and its offshoots, and while hiking on Mount Shasta looking for a rumored branch of the Great White Brotherhood known as \"The Brotherhood of Mount Shasta\", he claimed to have met and been instructed by a man who introduced himself as \"Saint Germain.\" Saint Germain is regular component of theosophical religions as an Ascended Master, based on the historical Comte de Saint-Germain, an 18th-century adventurer.\nThe Ballards said they began talking to the Ascended Masters regularly. They founded a publishing house, \"Saint Germain Press\", to publish their books and began training people to spread their messages across the United States. These training sessions and \"Conclaves\" were held throughout the United States and were open to the general public and free of charge. A front-page story in a 1938 edition of the \"Chicago Herald and Examiner\" noted that the Ballards \"do not take up collections or ask for funds\". Some of the original members of I AM were recruited from the ranks of William Dudley Pelley’s organization the Silver Shirts. Meetings became limited to members only after hecklers began disrupting their open meetings. Over their lifetimes, the Ballard's recorded nearly 4,000 Live dictations, which they said were from the Ascended Masters. Guy Ballard, his wife Edna, and later his son Donald became the sole \"Accredited Messengers\" of the Ascended Masters.\n\nThe Ballards' popularity spread, including up to a million followers in 1938. They accepted donations (called \"love gifts\") from their followers across the country, though no such donation or dues were required.\n\nThe first of many \"Conclaves\" held in scores of cities in their national tours was Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, October 10–19, 1934. According to a \"Los Angeles Magazine\" article, in August 1935, the Ballards hosted a gathering at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles that drew a crowd of 6,000. Guy Ballard spoke under the pseudonym he used in authoring his books, Godfre Ray King, and his wife used the pseudonym Lotus. The meeting included teachings they described as being received directly from the Ascended Masters. They led the audience in prayers and affirmations that they called decrees, including adorations to God and invocations for abundance of every good thing, including love, money, peace, and happiness.\n\nAt the height of his popularity, Guy Ballard died from arteriosclerosis at 5:00 A.M. on December 29, 1939, in Los Angeles, in the home of his son Donald. On December 31 his body was cremated. On New Year's Day during the annual \"Christmas Class\", Edna Ballard stated that Guy had completed his Ascension at midnight December 31, 1939, from the \"Royal Teton Retreat\".\n\nStudents of the \"I Am\" Activity believe in death as a change, not an ending. The \"I AM\" activity believe \"Ascension\" can mean Entering heaven alive, that is, to \"raise one's body\"—physically translating to a higher form of existence, as in the Ascension of Jesus. This is what Guy Ballard had claimed his followers would be able to do if they followed his instructions. Recorded in a dictation prior to Guy W Ballard's death a new dispensation to make the Ascension after the passing of death and cremation was given, and is recorded at the Saint Germain Foundation. Students using this more traditional definition would have to conclude that Mrs. Ballard did not tell the full teaching, since Mr. Ballard had died a quite ordinary death and his body had been cremated. There had also been questions raised about devout members who had died without entering heaven alive. At this time, Edna Ballard defined \"Ascension\" as dying an ordinary death, but going to a higher level of heaven than a normal person because one has balanced \"51% of one's karma\". This modified and more practical definition of \"ascension\" is used by all Ascended Master Teachings religions today, although they still believe that a select few, the higher level Ascended Masters such as Jesus and St. Germain, entered heaven alive.\n\nIn 1942, Edna Ballard and her son Donald were charged with eighteen counts of mail fraud on the basis of claims made in books sent through the mail. The presiding judge instructed the jury not to consider the truth or falsity of the religious beliefs, but only whether the Ballards sincerely believed the claims or did not, and the jury found them guilty. The Ninth Circuit overturned the conviction on the grounds that the judge improperly excluded the credibility of their religious beliefs from consideration, and the government appealed to the Supreme Court. In \"United States v. Ballard\", the Supreme Court in a 5-4 landmark decision held that the question of whether Ballards believed their religious claims should not have been submitted to the jury, and remanded the case back to the Ninth Circuit, which affirmed the fraud conviction. Interpreting this decision, the Ninth Circuit later found that the Court did not go so far as to hold that \"the validity or veracity of a religious doctrine cannot be inquired into by a Federal Court.\"\n\nOn a second appeal, the Supreme Court in 1946 vacated the fraud conviction, on the grounds that women were improperly excluded from the jury panel.\n\nIn March 1942, Edna Ballard moved the western branch of the \"Saint Germain Press\" and her residence to Santa Fe, where she recorded live before an audience thousands more dictations she said were from the Ascended Masters.\n\nDespite the ultimate dismissal of the court cases, it was not until 1954 that the organization's right to use the mail was restored. The Internal Revenue Service revoked their tax-exempt status in 1941, stating it did not recognize the movement as \"a religion\". A court ruling in 1957 overturned the ruling of the IRS and re-established the group's tax-exempt status.\n\nAs of 2007, Saint Germain Foundation maintains a reading room in Mount Shasta, California, and its headquarters in Schaumburg, Illinois. Several annual conclaves are held at their 12-story \"I AM Temple\" at 176 West Washington Street in downtown Chicago. Among the hundreds attending, there are usually dozens of \"I AM\" students from other nations. Classes and conclaves are regularly held in approximately 300 locations in America, Europe, Latin America, Australia, and Africa. The \"Saint Germain Press\", a subsidiary of the \"Saint Germain Foundation\", publishes the historical books and related artwork and audio recordings of the Ballards' teachings, and a monthly magazine available by subscription, titled \"The Voice of the 'I AM'\". It has been estimated that the \"Saint Germain Press\" has printed and put into circulation over one million books.\n\nThe Saint Germain Foundation presents the \"\"I AM\" COME!\" Pageant every August at Mount Shasta, and has done so each year since 1950. Their website states that the performance is open to the public at no cost, and describes the Pageant as a portrayal of \"the life of Beloved Jesus, focusing on His Miracles of Truth and Healing, and the example of the Ascension which He left to the world.\"\n\nAccording to the group's teachings, Ascended Masters are believed to be individuals who have left the reincarnation cycle of re-embodiment.\n\nThe \"I AM\" Activity calls itself Christian, because Jesus is considered to be one of the more important Ascended Masters. It also refers to itself as patriotic because Ascended Master St. Germain is believed to have inspired and guided the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. Followers claim that St. Germain belonged to the same Masonic Lodge as George Washington and Benjamin Franklin. However, Guy Ballard tended to downplay any relation of his ideas to Freemasonry because of his great discordance with Franklin Delano Roosevelt, a famous Freemason. Thus the notion that Saint-Germain belonged to a Masonic Lodge was more part of general occult lore than part of Ballard's emphasis.\nThe movement teaches that the omnipotent, omniscient and omnipresent creator God ('I AM' – Exodus 3:14) is in all of us as a spark from the Divine Flame, and that we can experience this presence, love, power and light – and its power of the Violet Consuming Flame of Divine Love – through quiet contemplation and by repeating 'affirmations' and 'decrees'. By affirming something one desires, one may cause it to happen.\nThe group teaches that the \"Mighty I AM Presence\" is God existing in and as each person's Higher Self, and that a light known as the \"Violet Flame\" is generated by the \"I AM Presence\" and may surround each person who calls forth the action of the Holy Spirit for expression of mercy or forgiveness. The group believes that by tapping into these internalized powers in accordance with the teachings of the Ascended Masters, one can use one's relationship to the \"Presence\" to amplify the expressions of virtue such as justice, peace, harmony, and love; to displace or abate the expression of evil (relative absence of good) in the world; and to minimize personal difficulties in one's life.\n\nThe spiritual goal of the teachings is that, through a process of self-purification, the believer may attain the perfected condition of the saints, or become an Ascended Master when leaving their body, contrasted to common concepts of 'ordinary death'. The process of attaining these results includes one or another of interior practices to facilitate resonance and alignment with the \"I AM Presence\": self-assessment in light of saintly exemplars such as Jesus, care in the use of language, devotion (to the Divine), gratitude, meditation, affirmations; and external practices such as \"decrees\" (repeated prayers given aloud with conviction) and invocations such as for the Violet Flame, all of which amplify the energetic presence of the divine in one's experience, resulting in the desired positive changes.\nThe science behind decrees and affirmations has received extensive attention in medical and other fields. The 'hidden side' of human life is explored, largely with the view of releasing consciousness from burden and error so that it may seek to be more fully engaged in higher purpose, inspired by divine guidance, to serve the Greater Good of All.\n\nThe group also emphasizes personal freedom, embracing patriotic symbols, and often displays American flags in its Temples or other offices.\n\nThese \"positive thinking\" beliefs overlap with several other New Age movements such as Religious Science and the Human Potential Movement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37294330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37294330", "title": "Abstraction (art)", "text": "Abstraction (art)\n\nTypically, \"abstraction\" is used in the arts as a synonym for abstract art in general.\n\nStrictly speaking, it refers to art unconcerned with the literal depiction of things from the visible world—it can, however, refer to an object or image which has been distilled from the real world, or indeed, another work of art. Artwork that reshapes the natural world for expressive purposes is called abstract; that which derives from, but does not imitate a recognizable subject is called nonobjective abstraction. In the 20th century the trend toward abstraction coincided with advances in science, technology, and changes in urban life, eventually reflecting an interest in psychoanalytic theory. Later still, abstraction was manifest in more purely formal terms, such as color, freedom from objective context, and a reduction of form to basic geometric designs and shapes.\n\nIn music, the term \"abstraction\" can be used to describe improvisatory approaches to interpretation, and may sometimes indicate abandonment of tonality. Atonal music has no key signature, and is characterized by the exploration of internal numeric relationships.\n"}
{"id": "51552659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51552659", "title": "Alexander Dobrokhotov", "text": "Alexander Dobrokhotov\n\nAlexander Dobrokhotov (; born 8 September 1950) is a Russian philosopher, historian of philosophy, historian of culture, and university professor. He specialises in the history of Russian culture, history of philosophy, metaphysics, Russian philosophy, ancient and medieval philosophy, Kant and German Idealism, and philosophy of culture. Alexander Dobrokhotov is a leading Russian philosopher of culture and one of the founders of the Russian discipline within the humanities called ‘culturology’ (kulturologia).\n\nFrom 1967 to 1972, Alexander Dobrokhotov was an undergraduate student in philosophy at the Faculty of Philosophy, Moscow State University. From 1972 to 1975, he was a graduate student in philosophy at the Department of Western Philosophy History, Faculty of Philosophy, at Moscow State University. In 1978, he defended his PhD dissertation (‘kandidatskaya’) titled 'Parmenides' Teachings on Being’. In 1990, he defended his second dissertation (‘doktorskaya’) titled 'The Category of Being in Ancient Philosophy of the Classical Period’.\n\nAlexander Dobrokhotov started his academic career as a historian of Ancient Greek Philosophy and as an interpreter of Parmenides' and Heraclitus’ theories of being. His studies resulted in several books, one of which, ‘The Category of Being in Classical West-European Philosophy’ (1986), summarises his main ideas.\n\nFrom 1988 to 1995, Dobrokhotov was the chair of the Department of Cultural History of the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology. From 1995 to 2009, Alexander Dobrokhotov was the chair of History and Theory of World Culture of the Faculty of Philosophy, Moscow State University. The chair was created in 1990. Many prominent Soviet and Russian scholars like Viacheslav Ivanov, Sergei Sergejewitsch Awerinzew, Aron Gurevich, Mikhail Gasparov, Georgii Knabe, Yeleazar Meletinsky, Vladimir Romanov, Tatiana Vasilieva, Nina Braginskaia, Vladimir Bibikhin have worked there. From 1995 to 2015, Alexander Dobrokhotov taught at the Graduate School of European Cultures (VSHEK) which is an international training and research centre at Russian State University for the Humanities (VSHEK was established in April 2007 and replaced the Institute of European Cultures). From 2009 until today, Alexander Dobrokhotov is also a professor at the National Research University Higher School of Economics (HSE), at the School of Cultural Studies. He teaches various courses on philosophy, philosophy of culture, metaphysics and theology, history of Russian culture. In 2010, he became a tenured professor at HSE. Currently, Alexander Dobrokhotov is a member of the editorial board of Arbor Mundi, Transcultural Studies, and Studies in East European Thought.\n\nToday, Alexander Dobrokhotov is a leading Russian philosopher of culture and prominent scholar in culturology. He often appears on television and has taught a massive online course on Coursera.\n\nIn late 1980s and early 1990s, the academic disciplinary landscape on the territory of the former Soviet Union underwent significant changes. Some disciplines based on Marxism–Leninism ceased to exist, and a number of new disciplines in the humanities and social sciences appeared. Among the new fields there was an approach towards culture within the Russian humanities which came to be known as ‘culturology’ (kulturologia). There have been many versions of this discipline, and Alexander Dobrokhotov became the founder of his own original version of culturology, based on the Kantian and Hegelian philosophical traditions and on the Russian philosophy on the Silver Age. He regards studies of culture as a combination of theoretical philosophy of culture on one hand, and empirical studies on the other hand.\n\nIn his works on philosophy of culture, he argues that ‘Culture’ can be regarded as an independent regional of being, alongside ‘Nature’ and ‘Spirit’. He defines Culture as the universe of artefacts. The artefact is the result of an objectification of Spirit and an anthropomorphization of Nature. In this respect, culture mediates Nature and Spirit. Culture makes obsolete the ontological conflict between Nature and Spirit. In their place, two other ontological conflicts appear: the conflict between Nature and Culture, and between Culture and Spirit. Alexander Dobrokhotov further argues that Culture is not a mechanism of human adaptation to the natural environment, but is rather an ontological wholeness, with its own aim setting, or, in his terms, ‘teleologism’. Pure or transcendental forms set aims for culture. This idea stems from works by Plato, Leibniz, Kant, and Husserl. Each artefact of Culture is created in order to take its place within the ontological wholeness, and thus, alongside its concrete meaning or function, it also contains a latent interpretation of the wholeness. ‘How should the world look like so that I could be a part of it?’ — this is the question which each artefact answers.\n\nFrom this follows an empirical method which forms the foundation of the empirical discipline of culturology. This method involves reconstructing the ontological wholeness from the individual artefact. In other words, the method involves answering the question of how the world should look like so that the artefact could be a part of it. Furthermore, if the wholeness is the same for all its artefacts, an isomorphism of heterogeneous artefacts can be discovered. Hence, the main question of the empirical study of culture is ‘How can we reconcile the heterogeneity and isomorphism of cultural artefacts?’\n\nIn his numerous empirical studies of culture, Alexander Dobrokhotov demonstrates how his theory and method work. He reveals the underlying isomorphism in works by Goethe, Friedrich Nietzsche, and Pablo Picasso; in quantum mechanics and avant-garde in art; in the 18th-century philosophy of mind and the novel; in theology and Alfred Hitchcock’s films.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "190910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190910", "title": "Alfred of Sareshel", "text": "Alfred of Sareshel\n\nAlfred of Sarashel, also known as Alfred the Philosopher, Alfred the Englishman or Alfredus Anglicus, was born in England some time in the 12th century and died in the 13th century.\n\nNot much more is known about his life apart from that he moved to Spain and worked in the Toledo School of Translators, where he translated several texts from Arabic and Greek into Latin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2493", "title": "Anthroposophy", "text": "Anthroposophy\n\nAnthroposophy is a philosophy founded by the 19th century esotericist Rudolf Steiner that postulates the existence of an objective, intellectually comprehensible spiritual world, accessible to human experience. Followers of anthroposophy aim to develop mental faculties of spiritual discovery through a mode of thought independent of sensory experience. They also aim to present their ideas in a manner verifiable by rational discourse and specifically seek a precision and clarity in studying the spiritual world mirroring that obtained by natural historians in investigations of the physical world.\n\nThe philosophy has its roots in German idealist and mystical philosophies. Steiner chose the term \"anthroposophy\" (from \"anthropo-\", human, and \"Sophia\", wisdom) to emphasize his philosophy's humanistic orientation. Anthroposophical ideas have been employed in alternative movements in many areas including education (both in Waldorf schools and in the Camphill movement), agriculture, medicine, banking, organizational development, and the arts. The main organization for advocacy of Steiner's ideas, the Anthroposophical Society, is headquartered at the Goetheanum in Dornach, Switzerland.\n\nThe historian of religion Olav Hammer has termed anthroposophy \"the most important esoteric society in European history.\" Authors, scientists, and physicians including Michael Shermer, Michael Ruse, Edzard Ernst, David Gorski, and Simon Singh have criticized anthroposophy's application in the areas of medicine, biology, agriculture, and education to be dangerous and pseudoscientific. Others including former Waldorf pupil Dan Dugan and historian Geoffrey Ahern have criticized anthroposophy itself as a dangerous cult that is fundamentally anti-rational and anti-scientific.\n\nThe early work of the founder of anthroposophy, Rudolf Steiner, culminated in his \"Philosophy of Freedom\" (also translated as \"The Philosophy of Spiritual Activity\" and \"Intuitive Thinking as a Spiritual Path\"). Here, Steiner developed a concept of free will based on inner experiences, especially those that occur in the creative activity of independent thought.\n\nBy the beginning of the twentieth century, Steiner's interests turned almost exclusively to spirituality. His work began to interest others interested in spiritual ideas; among these was the Theosophical Society. From 1900 on, thanks to the positive reception his ideas received from Theosophists, Steiner focused increasingly on his work with the Theosophical Society, becoming the secretary of its section in Germany in 1902. During his leadership, membership increased dramatically, from just a few individuals to sixty-nine lodges.\n\nBy 1907, a split between Steiner and the Theosophical Society became apparent. While the Society was oriented toward an Eastern and especially Indian approach, Steiner was trying to develop a path that embraced Christianity and natural science. The split became irrevocable when Annie Besant, then president of the Theosophical Society, presented the child Jiddu Krishnamurti as the reincarnated Christ. Steiner strongly objected and considered any comparison between Krishnamurti and Christ to be nonsense; many years later, Krishnamurti also repudiated the assertion. Steiner's continuing differences with Besant led him to separate from the Theosophical Society Adyar. He was subsequently followed by the great majority of the Theosophical Society's German members, as well as many members of other national sections.\n\nBy this time, Steiner, had reached considerable stature as a spiritual teacher and expert in the occult. He spoke about what he considered to be his direct experience of the Akashic Records (sometimes called the \"Akasha Chronicle\"), thought to be a spiritual chronicle of the history, pre-history, and future of the world and mankind. In a number of works, Steiner described a path of inner development he felt would let anyone attain comparable spiritual experiences. In Steiner's view, sound vision could be developed, in part, by practicing rigorous forms of ethical and cognitive self-discipline, concentration, and meditation. In particular, Steiner believed a person's spiritual development could only occur after a period of moral development.\nIn 1912, the Anthroposophical Society was founded. After World War I, the Anthroposophical movement took on new directions. Followers of Steiner's ideas soon began applying them to create counter-cultural movements in traditional and special education, farming, and medicine.\n\nBy 1923, a schism had formed between older members focused on inner development and younger members eager to become active in contemporary social transformations. In response, Steiner attempted to bridge the gap by establishing an overall School for \"Spiritual Science\". As a spiritual basis for the reborn movement, Steiner wrote a \"\" which remains a central touchstone of anthroposophical ideas.\n\nSteiner died just over a year later, in 1925. The Second World War temporarily hindered the anthroposophical movement in most of Continental Europe, as the Anthroposophical Society and most of its practical counter-cultural applications were banned by the Nazi government. Though at least one prominent member of the Nazi Party, Rudolf Hess, was a strong supporter of anthroposophy, very few anthroposophists belonged to the National Socialist Party.\n\nBy 2007, national branches of the Anthroposophical Society had been established in fifty countries and about 10,000 institutions around the world were working on the basis of anthroposophical ideas.\n\n\"Anthroposophy\" is an amalgam of the Greek terms (\"anthropos\" = \"human\") and (\"sophia\" = \"wisdom\"). An early English usage is recorded by Nathan Bailey (1742) as meaning \"the knowledge of the nature of man.\"\nThe first known use of the term \"anthroposophy\" occurs within \"Arbatel de magia veterum, summum sapientiae studium\", a book published anonymously in 1575 and attributed to Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa. The work describes anthroposophy (as well as theosophy) variously as an understanding of goodness, nature, or human affairs. In 1648, the Welsh philosopher Thomas Vaughan published his \"Anthroposophia Theomagica, or a discourse of the nature of man and his state after death.\" \n\nThe term began to appear with some frequency in philosophical works of the mid- and late-nineteenth century. In the early part of that century, Ignaz Troxler used the term \"anthroposophy\" to refer to philosophy deepened to self-knowledge, which he suggested allows deeper knowledge of nature as well. He spoke of human nature as a mystical unity of God and world. Immanuel Hermann Fichte used the term \"anthroposophy\" to refer to \"rigorous human self-knowledge,\" achievable through thorough comprehension of the human spirit and of the working of God in this spirit, in his 1856 work \"Anthropology: The Study of the Human Soul\". In 1872, the philosopher of religion Gideon Spicker used the term \"anthroposophy\" to refer to self-knowledge that would unite God and world: \"the true study of the human being is the human being, and philosophy's highest aim is self-knowledge, or Anthroposophy.\" \n\nIn 1882, the philosopher Robert Zimmermann published the treatise, \"An Outline of Anthroposophy: Proposal for a System of Idealism on a Realistic Basis,\" proposing that idealistic philosophy should employ logical thinking to extend empirical experience. Steiner attended lectures by Zimmermann at the University of Vienna in the early 1880s, thus at the time of this book's publication.\n\nIn the early 1900s, Steiner began using the term \"anthroposophy\" (i.e. human wisdom) as an alternative to the term \"theosophy\" (i.e. divine wisdom).\n\nAnthroposophical proponents aim to extend the clarity of the scientific method to phenomena of human soul-life and spiritual experiences. Steiner believed this required developing new faculties of objective spiritual perception, which he maintained was still possible for contemporary humans. The steps of this process of inner development he identified as consciously achieved \"imagination\", \"inspiration\" and \"intuition\". Steiner believed results of this form of spiritual research should be expressed in a way that can be understood and evaluated on the same basis as the results of natural science.\n\nSteiner hoped to form a spiritual movement that would free the individual from any external authority. For Steiner, the human capacity for rational thought would allow individuals to comprehend spiritual research on their own and bypass the danger of dependency on an authority such as himself.\n\nSteiner contrasted the anthroposophical approach with both conventional mysticism, which he considered lacking the clarity necessary for exact knowledge, and natural science, which he considered arbitrarily limited to what can be seen, heard, or felt with the outward senses.\n\nIn \"Theosophy\", Steiner suggested that human beings unite a physical body of substances gathered from (and that ultimately return to) the inorganic world; a life body (also called the etheric body), in common with all living creatures (including plants); a bearer of sentience or consciousness (also called the astral body), in common with all animals; and the ego, which anchors the faculty of self-awareness unique to human beings.\n\nAnthroposophy describes a broad evolution of human consciousness. Early stages of human evolution possess an intuitive perception of reality, including a clairvoyant perception of spiritual realities. Humanity has progressively evolved an increasing reliance on intellectual faculties and a corresponding loss of intuitive or clairvoyant experiences, which have become atavistic. The increasing intellectualization of consciousness, initially a progressive direction of evolution, has led to an excessive reliance on abstraction and a loss of contact with both natural and spiritual realities. However, to go further requires new capacities that combine the clarity of intellectual thought with the imagination, and beyond this with consciously achieved inspiration and intuitive insights.\n\nAnthroposophy speaks of the reincarnation of the human spirit: that the human being passes between stages of existence, incarnating into an earthly body, living on earth, leaving the body behind and entering into the spiritual worlds before returning to be born again into a new life on earth. After the death of the physical body, the human spirit recapitulates the past life, perceiving its events as they were experienced by the objects of its actions. A complex transformation takes place between the review of the past life and the preparation for the next life. The individual's karmic condition eventually leads to a choice of parents, physical body, disposition, and capacities that provide the challenges and opportunities that further development requires, which includes karmically chosen tasks for the future life.\n\nSteiner described some conditions that determine the interdependence of a person's lives, or karma.\n\nThe anthroposophical view of evolution considers all animals to have evolved from an early, unspecialized form. As the least specialized animal, human beings have maintained the closest connection to the archetypal form; contrary to the Darwinian conception of human evolution, all other animals \"devolve\" from this archetype. The spiritual archetype originally created by spiritual beings was devoid of physical substance; only later did this descend into material existence on Earth. In this view, human evolution has accompanied the Earth's evolution throughout the existence of the Earth.\n\nAnthroposophy adapted Theosophy's complex system of cycles of world development and human evolution. The evolution of the world is said to have occurred in cycles. The first phase of the world consisted only of heat. In the second phase, a more active condition, light, and a more condensed, gaseous state separate out from the heat. In the third phase, a fluid state arose, as well as a sounding, forming energy. In the fourth (current) phase, solid physical matter first exists. This process is said to have been accompanied by an evolution of consciousness which led up to present human culture.\n\nThe anthroposophical view is that good is found in the balance between two polar influences on world and human evolution. These are often described through their mythological embodiments as spiritual adversaries which endeavour to tempt and corrupt humanity, Lucifer and his counterpart Ahriman. These have both positive and negative aspects. Lucifer is the light spirit, which \"plays on human pride and offers the delusion of divinity\", but also motivates creativity and spirituality; Ahriman is the dark spirit that tempts human beings to \"...deny [their] link with divinity and to live entirely on the material plane\", but that also stimulates intellectuality and technology. Both figures exert a negative effect on humanity when their influence becomes misplaced or one-sided, yet their influences are necessary for human freedom to unfold.\n\nEach human being has the task to find a balance between these opposing influences, and each is helped in this task by the mediation of the \"Representative of Humanity\", also known as the Christ being, a spiritual entity who stands between and harmonizes the two extremes.\n\nThe applications of anthroposophy to practical fields include:\n\nThis is a pedagogical movement with over 1000 Steiner or Waldorf schools (the latter name stems from the first such school, founded in Stuttgart in 1919) located in some 60 countries; the great majority of these are independent (private) schools. Sixteen of the schools have been affiliated with the United Nations' UNESCO Associated Schools Project Network, which sponsors education projects that foster improved quality of education throughout the world. Waldorf schools receive full or partial governmental funding in some European nations, Australia and in parts of the United States (as Waldorf method public or charter schools) and Canada.\n\nThe schools have been founded in a variety of communities: for example in the \"favelas\" of São Paulo to wealthy suburbs of major cities; in India, Egypt, Australia, the Netherlands, Mexico and South Africa. Though most of the early Waldorf schools were teacher-founded, the schools today are usually initiated and later supported by a parent community. Waldorf schools are among the most visible anthroposophical institutions.\n\nBiodynamic agriculture, the first intentional form of organic farming, began in 1924, when Rudolf Steiner gave a series of lectures published in English as \"The Agriculture Course\". Steiner is considered one of the founders of the modern organic farming movement.\n\nSteiner gave several series of lectures to physicians and medical students. Out of those grew an alternative medical movement intending to \"extend the knowledge gained through the methods of the natural sciences of the present age with insights from spiritual science.\" This movement now includes hundreds of M.D.s, chiefly in Europe and North America, and has its own clinics, hospitals, and medical schools.\n\nOne of the most studied applications has been the use of mistletoe extracts in cancer therapy, but research has found no evidence of benefit.\n\nIn 1922, Ita Wegman founded an anthroposophical center for special needs education, the Sonnenhof, in Switzerland. In 1940, Karl König founded the Camphill Movement in Scotland. The latter in particular has spread widely, and there are now over a hundred Camphill communities and other anthroposophical homes for children and adults in need of special care in about 22 countries around the world. Both Karl König, Thomas Weihs and others have written extensively on these ideas underlying Special education.\n\nSteiner designed around thirteen buildings in an organic—expressionist architectural style. Foremost among these are his designs for the two Goetheanum buildings in Dornach, Switzerland. Thousands of further buildings have been built by later generations of anthroposophic architects.\n\nArchitects who have been strongly influenced by the anthroposophic style include Imre Makovecz in Hungary, Hans Scharoun and Joachim Eble in Germany, Erik Asmussen in Sweden, Kenji Imai in Japan, Thomas Rau, Anton Alberts and Max van Huut in the Netherlands, Christopher Day and Camphill Architects in the UK, Thompson and Rose in America, Denis Bowman in Canada, and Walter Burley Griffin and Gregory Burgess in Australia.\n\nING House in Amsterdam is a contemporary building by an anthroposophical architect which has received awards for its ecological design and approach to a self-sustaining ecology as an autonomous building and example of sustainable architecture.\n\nTogether with Marie von Sivers, Steiner developed eurythmy, a performance art combining dance, speech, and music.\n\nAround the world today are a number of banks, companies, charities, and schools for developing co-operative forms of business using Steiner's ideas about economic associations, aiming at harmonious and socially responsible roles in the world economy. The first anthroposophic bank was the \"Gemeinschaftsbank für Leihen und Schenken\" in Bochum, Germany, founded in 1974.\nSocially responsible banks founded out of anthroposophy in the English-speaking world include Triodos Bank, founded in 1980 and active in the UK, Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, Spain and France.\nCultura Sparebank dates from 1982 when a group of Norwegian anthroposophists start to grow the idea of having ethical banking but only in the late 90s the bank starts to operate as a savings bank in Norway.\nLa Nef in France and RSF Social Finance in San Francisco are other examples.\n\nHarvard Business School historian Geoffrey Jones traced the considerable impact both Steiner and later anthroposophical entrepreneurs had on the creation of many businesses in organic food, ecological architecture and sustainable finance.\n\nBernard Lievegoed, a psychiatrist, founded a new method of individual and institutional development oriented towards humanizing organizations and linked with Steiner's ideas of the threefold social order. This work is represented by the NPI Institute for Organizational Development in the Netherlands and sister organizations in many other countries. Various forms of biographic and counselling work have been developed on the basis of anthroposophy.\n\nThere are also anthroposophical movements to renew speech and drama, the most important of which are based in the work of Marie Steiner-von Sivers (\"speech formation\", also known as \"Creative Speech\") and the \"Chekhov Method\" originated by Michael Chekhov (nephew of Anton Chekhov).\n\nAnthroposophic painting, a style inspired by Rudolf Steiner, featured prominently in the first Goetheanum's cupola. The technique frequently begins by filling the surface to be painted with color, out of which forms are gradually developed, often images with symbolic-spiritual significance. Paints that allow for many transparent layers are preferred, and often these are derived from plant materials. Rudolf Steiner appointed the English sculptor Edith Maryon as head of the School of Fine Art at the Goetheanum. Together they carved the 9 metre tall sculpture ‘The Representative of Man’ which is on display at the Goetheanum.\n\nOther applications include:\n\nFor a period after World War I, Steiner was extremely active and well known in Germany, in part because he lectured widely proposing social reforms. Steiner was a sharp critic of nationalism, which he saw as outdated, and a proponent of achieving social solidarity through individual freedom. A petition proposing a radical change in the German constitution and expressing his basic social ideas (signed by Herman Hesse, among others) was widely circulated. His main book on social reform is \"Toward Social Renewal\".\n\nAnthroposophy continues to aim at reforming society through maintaining and strengthening the independence of the spheres of cultural life, human rights and the economy. It emphasizes a particular ideal in each of these three realms of society:\n\nAccording to Steiner, a real spiritual world exists, evolving along with the material one. Steiner held that the spiritual world can be researched in the right circumstances through direct experience, by persons practicing rigorous forms of ethical and cognitive self-discipline. Steiner described many exercises he said were suited to strengthening such self-discipline; the most complete exposition of these is found in his book \"How To Know Higher Worlds\". The aim of these exercises is to develop higher levels of consciousness through meditation and observation. Details about the spiritual world, Steiner suggested, could on such a basis be discovered and reported, though no more infallibly than the results of natural science.\n\nSteiner regarded his research reports as being important aids to others seeking to enter into spiritual experience. He suggested that a combination of spiritual exercises (for example, concentrating on an object such as a seed), moral development (control of thought, feelings and will combined with openness, tolerance and flexibility) and familiarity with other spiritual researchers' results would best further an individual's spiritual development. He consistently emphasised that any inner, spiritual practice should be undertaken in such a way as not to interfere with one's responsibilities in outer life. Steiner distinguished between what he considered were true and false paths of spiritual investigation.\n\nIn anthroposophy, artistic expression is also treated as a potentially valuable bridge between spiritual and material reality.\n\nSteiner's stated prerequisites to beginning on a spiritual path include a willingness to take up serious cognitive studies, a respect for factual evidence, and a responsible attitude. Central to progress on the path itself is a harmonious cultivation of the following qualities:\n\nSteiner sees meditation as a concentration and enhancement of the power of thought. By focusing consciously on an idea, feeling or intention the meditant seeks to arrive at pure thinking, a state exemplified by but not confined to pure mathematics. In Steiner's view, conventional sensory-material knowledge is achieved through relating perception and concepts. The anthroposophic path of esoteric training articulates three further stages of supersensory knowledge, which do not necessarily follow strictly sequentially in any single individual's spiritual progress.\n\nSteiner described numerous exercises he believed would bring spiritual development; other anthroposophists have added many others. A central principle is that \"for every step in spiritual perception, three steps are to be taken in moral development.\" According to Steiner, moral development reveals the extent to which one has achieved control over one's inner life and can exercise it in harmony with the spiritual life of other people; it shows the real progress in spiritual development, the fruits of which are given in spiritual perception. It also guarantees the capacity to distinguish between false perceptions or illusions (which are possible in perceptions of both the outer world and the inner world) and true perceptions: i.e., the capacity to distinguish in any perception between the influence of subjective elements (i.e., viewpoint) and objective reality.\n\nSteiner built upon Goethe's conception of an imaginative power capable of synthesizing the sense-perceptible form of a thing (an image of its outer appearance) and the concept we have of that thing (an image of its inner structure or nature). Steiner added to this the conception that a further step in the development of thinking is possible when the thinker observes his or her own thought processes. \"The organ of observation and the observed thought process are then identical, so that the condition thus arrived at is simultaneously one of perception through thinking and one of thought through perception.\"\n\nThus, in Steiner's view, we can overcome the subject-object divide through inner activity, even though all human experience begins by being conditioned by it. In this connection, Steiner examines the step from thinking determined by outer impressions to what he calls sense-free thinking. He characterizes thoughts he considers without sensory content, such as mathematical or logical thoughts, as free deeds. Steiner believed he had thus located the origin of free will in our thinking, and in particular in sense-free thinking.\n\nSome of the epistemic basis for Steiner's later anthroposophical work is contained in the seminal work, Philosophy of Freedom. In his early works, Steiner sought to overcome what he perceived as the dualism of Cartesian idealism and Kantian subjectivism by developing Goethe's conception of the human being as a natural-supernatural entity, that is: natural in that humanity is a product of nature, supernatural in that through our conceptual powers we extend nature's realm, allowing it to achieve a reflective capacity in us as philosophy, art and science. Steiner was one of the first European philosophers to overcome the subject-object split in Western thought. Though not well known among philosophers, his philosophical work was taken up by Owen Barfield (and through him influenced the Inklings, an Oxford group of Christian writers that included J. R. R. Tolkien and C. S. Lewis).\n\nChristian and Jewish mystical thought have also influenced the development of anthroposophy.\n\nSteiner believed in the possibility of applying the clarity of scientific thinking to spiritual experience, which he saw as deriving from an objectively existing spiritual world. Steiner identified mathematics, which attains certainty through thinking itself, thus through inner experience rather than empirical observation, as the basis of his epistemology of spiritual experience.\n\nSteiner's writing, though appreciative of all religions and cultural developments, emphasizes Western tradition as having evolved to meet contemporary needs. He describes Christ and his mission on earth of bringing individuated consciousness as having a particularly important place in human evolution, whereby:\n\nThus, anthroposophy considers there to be a being who unifies all religions, and who is not represented by any particular religious faith. This being is, according to Steiner, not only the Redeemer of the Fall from Paradise, but also the unique pivot and meaning of earth's evolutionary processes and of human history. To describe this being, Steiner periodically used terms such as the \"Representative of Humanity\" or the \"good spirit\" rather than any denominational term.\n\nSteiner's views of Christianity diverge from conventional Christian thought in key places, and include gnostic elements:\n\n\nRudolf Steiner wrote and lectured on Judaism and Jewish issues over much of his adult life. He was a fierce opponent of popular antisemitism, but asserted that there was no justification for the existence of Judaism and Jewish culture in the modern world, a radical assimilationist perspective which saw the Jews completely integrating into the larger society. He also supported Émile Zola's position in the Dreyfus affair. Steiner emphasized Judaism's central importance to the constitution of the modern era in the West but suggested that to appreciate the spirituality of the future it would need to overcome its tendency toward abstraction.\n\nIn his later life, Steiner was accused by the Nazis of being a Jew, and Adolf Hitler called anthroposophy \"Jewish methods\". The anthroposophical institutions in Germany were banned during Nazi rule and several anthroposophists sent to concentration camps.\n\nImportant early anthroposophists who were Jewish included two central members on the executive boards of the precursors to the modern Anthroposophical Society, and Karl König, the founder of the Camphill movement, who had converted to Christianity. Martin Buber and Hugo Bergmann, who viewed Steiner's social ideas as a solution to the Arab–Jewish conflict, were also influenced by anthroposophy.\n\nThere are numerous anthroposophical organisations in Israel, including the anthroposophical kibbutz Harduf, founded by Jesaiah Ben-Aharon, forty Waldorf kindergartens and seventeen Waldorf schools (stand as of 2018). A number of these organizations are striving to foster positive relationships between the Arab and Jewish populations: The Harduf Waldorf school includes both Jewish and Arab faculty and students, and has extensive contact with the surrounding Arab communities, while the first joint Arab-Jewish kindergarten was a Waldorf program in Hilf near Haifa.\n\nTowards the end of Steiner's life, a group of theology students (primarily Lutheran, with some Roman Catholic members) approached Steiner for help in reviving Christianity, in particular \"to bridge the widening gulf between modern science and the world of spirit\". They approached a notable Lutheran pastor, Friedrich Rittelmeyer, who was already working with Steiner's ideas, to join their efforts. Out of their co-operative endeavor, the \"Movement for Religious Renewal\", now generally known as The Christian Community, was born. Steiner emphasized that he considered this movement, and his role in creating it, to be independent of his anthroposophical work, as he wished anthroposophy to be independent of any particular religion or religious denomination.\n\nAnthroposophy's supporters include Pulitzer Prize-winning and Nobel Laureate Saul Bellow, Nobel prize winner Selma Lagerlöf, Andrei Bely, Joseph Beuys, Owen Barfield, architect Walter Burley Griffin, Wassily Kandinsky, Andrei Tarkovsky, Bruno Walter, Right Livelihood Award winners Sir George Trevelyan, and Ibrahim Abouleish, and child psychiatrist Eva Frommer. Albert Schweitzer was a friend of Steiner's and was supportive of his ideals for cultural renewal.\n\nThe historian of religion Olav Hammer has termed anthroposophy \"the most important esoteric society in European history.\" Authors, scientists, and physicians including Michael Shermer, Michael Ruse, Edzard Ernst, David Gorski, and Simon Singh have criticized anthroposophy's application in the areas of medicine, biology, agriculture, and education to be dangerous and pseudoscientific. Others including former Waldorf pupil Dan Dugan and historian Geoffrey Ahern have criticized anthroposophy itself as a dangerous cult that is fundamentally anti-rational and anti-scientific.\n\nThough Rudolf Steiner studied natural science at the Vienna Technical University at the undergraduate level, his doctorate was in epistemology and very little of his work is directly concerned with the empirical sciences. In his mature work, when he did refer to science it was often to present phenomenological or Goethean science as an alternative to what he considered the materialistic science of his contemporaries.\n\nSteiner's primary interest was in applying the methodology of science to realms of inner experience and the spiritual worlds (His appreciation that the essence of science is its method of inquiry is unusual among esotericists), and Steiner called anthroposophy \"Geisteswissenschaft\" (lit.: Science of the mind, or cultural or spiritual science), a term generally used in German to refer to the humanities and social sciences.\n\nWhether this is a sufficient basis for anthroposophy to be considered a spiritual science has been a matter of controversy. As Freda Easton explained in her study of Waldorf schools, \"Whether one accepts anthroposophy as a science depends upon whether one accepts Steiner's interpretation of a science that extends the consciousness and capacity of human beings to experience their inner spiritual world.\" \n\nSven Ove Hansson has disputed anthroposophy's claim to a scientific basis, stating that its ideas are not empirically derived and neither reproducible nor testable. Carlo Willmann points out that as, on its own terms, anthroposophical methodology offers no possibility of being falsified except through its own procedures of spiritual investigation, no intersubjective validation is possible by conventional scientific methods; it thus cannot stand up to empiricist critics. Peter Schneider describes such objections as untenable, asserting that that if a non-sensory, non-physical realm exists, then according to Steiner the experiences of pure thinking possible within the normal realm of consciousness would already be experiences of that, and it would be impossible to exclude the possibility of empirically grounded experiences of other supersensory content.\n\nOlav Hammer suggests that anthroposophy carries scientism \"to lengths unparalleled in any other Esoteric position\" due to its dependence upon claims of clairvoyant experience, its subsuming natural science under \"spiritual science.\" Hammer also asserts that the development of what she calls \"fringe\" sciences such as anthroposophic medicine and biodynamic agriculture are justified partly on the basis of the ethical and ecological values they promote, rather than purely on a scientific basis.\n\nThough Steiner saw that spiritual vision itself is difficult for others to achieve, he recommended open-mindedly exploring and rationally testing the results of such research; he also urged others to follow a spiritual training that would allow them directly to apply his methods to achieve comparable results.\n\nAnthony Storr stated about Rudolf Steiner's Anthroposophy: \"His belief system is so eccentric, so unsupported by evidence, so manifestly bizarre, that rational skeptics are bound to consider it delusional... But, whereas Einstein's way of perceiving the world by thought became confirmed by experiment and mathematical proof, Steiner's remained intensely subjective and insusceptible of objective confirmation.\"\n\nAs an explicitly spiritual movement, anthroposophy has sometimes been called a religious philosophy. In 1998 People for Legal and Non-Sectarian Schools (PLANS) started a lawsuit alleging that anthroposophy is a religion for Establishment Clause purposes and therefore several California school districts should not be chartering Waldorf schools; the lawsuit was dismissed in 2012 for failure to show anthroposophy was a religion. In 2000, a French court ruled that a government minister's description of anthroposophy as a cult was defamatory.\n\nAnthroposophical ideas have been criticized from both sides in the race debate:\n\n\nIn response to such critiques, the Anthroposophical Society in America published a statement clarifying its stance:\nWe explicitly reject any racial theory that may be construed to be part of Rudolf Steiner's writings. The Anthroposophical Society in America is an open, public society and it rejects any purported spiritual or scientific theory on the basis of which the alleged superiority of one race is justified at the expense of another race.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14056220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14056220", "title": "Biblical authority", "text": "Biblical authority\n\nThe term biblical authority refers to the extent to which commandments and doctrines within the Old and New Testament scriptures are authoritative over humans' belief and conduct, as well as the extent to which Biblical propositions are accurate in matters of history and science. The case for biblical authority stems from the claim that God has revealed himself in written form through human authors and that the information contained in canonical books is not of human origin. It entails, but is not exhausted by, questions raised by biblical inerrancy, biblical infallibility, biblical interpretation, biblical criticism, and Biblical law in Christianity.\n\nDuring the late 1970s and early 1980s, a debate over biblical authority arose between Jack B. Rogers and Donald K. McKim, on the one hand, and John D. Woodbridge, on the other. Rogers and McKim, in their 1979 book, \"The Authority and Interpretation of the Bible: An Historical Approach\", advanced the view that the Bible has authority over social endeavors (issuing imperatives for conduct, for church organization, and for articles of faith) but isn't necessarily reliable in its reportage of historical events and scientific facts. The belief that Scripture is \"inerrant\" in matters of history and science, argued Rogers and McKim, constituted a 19th-century innovation. Woodbridge challenged this thesis in his 1982 book \"Biblical Authority: A Critique of the Rogers/McKim Proposal\",\narguing that for each of those categories, God's Word has authority and is without error. Moreover, Woodbridge asserted that this particular view of biblical authority had been the normative, orthodox position throughout the history of Christianity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19854812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19854812", "title": "Center of origin", "text": "Center of origin\n\nA center of origin (or center of diversity) is a geographical area where a group of organisms, either domesticated or wild, first developed its distinctive properties. They are also considered centers of diversity. Centers of origin were first identified in 1924 by Nikolai Vavilov.\n\nLocating the origin of crop plants is basic to plant breeding. This allows one to locate wild relatives, related species, and new genes (especially dominant genes, which may provide resistance to diseases).\nKnowledge of the origins of crop plants is important in order to avoid genetic erosion, the loss of germplasm due to the loss of ecotypes and landraces, loss of habitat (such as rainforests), and increased urbanization. Germplasm preservation is accomplished through gene banks (largely seed collections but now frozen stem sections) and preservation of natural habitats (especially in centers of origin).\n\nA Vavilov Center (of Diversity) is a region of the world first indicated by Nikolai Vavilov to be an original center for the domestication of plants. For crop plants, Nikolai Vavilov identified differing numbers of centers: three in 1924, five in 1926, six in 1929, seven in 1931, eight in 1935 and reduced to seven again in 1940. \n\nVavilov argued that plants were not domesticated somewhere in the world at random, but that there were regions where domestication started. The center of origin is also considered the center of diversity.\n\nVavilov centers are regions where a high diversity of crop wild relatives can be found, representing the natural relatives of domesticated crop plants. Later in 1935 Vavilov divided the centers into 12, giving the following list:\n\nWorld centers of origin of cultivated plants\n\nIn 2016, researchers linked the origins and primary regions of diversity (\"areas typically including the locations of the initial domestication of crops, encompassing the primary geographical zones of crop variation generated since that time, and containing relatively high species richness in crop wild relatives\") of food and agricultural crops with their current importance around the world in modern national food supplies and agricultural production. The results indicated that foreign crops were 68.7% of national food supplies as a global mean, and their usage has greatly increased in the last fifty years.\n\n"}
{"id": "9454568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9454568", "title": "Christian egalitarianism", "text": "Christian egalitarianism\n\nChristian egalitarianism (derived from the French word égal, meaning \"equal\" or \"level\"), also known as biblical equality, is a Christian form of egalitarianism. It holds that all human persons are created equally in God's sight—equal in fundamental worth and moral status. This view does not just apply to gender, but to religion, skin colour and any other differences between individuals. It does not imply that all have equal skills, abilities, interests, or physiological or genetic traits. Christian egalitarianism holds that all people are equal before God and in Christ; have equal responsibility to use their gifts and obey their calling to the glory of God; and are called to roles and ministries without regard to class, gender, or race.\n\nAccording to Christian egalitarianism, gender equality is biblically sound in Christian church leadership (including pastors) and in Christian marriage. Its theological foundations are interpretations of the teachings and example of Jesus Christ and other New Testament principles.\n\nIt refers to a biblically-based belief that gender, in and of itself, neither privileges nor curtails a believer's gifting or calling to any ministry in the church or home. It does not imply that women and men are identical or undifferentiated, but affirms that God designed men and women to complement and benefit one another.\n\nEgalitarian beliefs are generally subscribed to by Quakers, United Methodist Churches, The Presbyterian Church (USA), The Covenant Order of Evangelical Presbyterians (ECO), Northern Baptists, Church of the Nazarene, Wesleyan Church, The Evangelical Covenant Church, and some Pentecostal churches such as the Assemblies of God and United Church of God.\n\nThe opposing view is complementarianism, a view which holds that differing, often non-overlapping roles between men and women, manifested in marriage, church leadership, and elsewhere, are biblically required. Complementarianism is the belief that men were created for the headship role and women were created for the support role.\n\nAll three Synoptic Gospels record Jesus as saying:\n\nThe Apostle Paul wrote:\n\nChristian egalitarians' interpretation of scriptures and spiritual convictions bring them to the conclusion that the manner and teaching of Jesus \"abolished\" discrimination against racial minorities, slaves, and women in both the church and marriage. They believe that the Bible teaches the fundamental equality of believers of all racial and ethnic groups and all economic classes. They consider overarching principles of the Bible to be that men and women are equally created in God's image, equally responsible for sin, equally redeemed by Christ, and equally gifted by God's Spirit for service and held responsible for using their God-given gifts.\n\nEach of the six times Aquila and his wife Priscilla are mentioned by name in the New Testament, they are listed together as a couple. Their order of appearance alternates in a perfect odd-even equality, with each mentioned first three times. Aquila appears first in the first, third and fifth mentions, and Priscilla (Prisca) first in the second, fourth and sixth mentions. Some revisions of the Bible put Priscilla rather than Aquila first, in Acts 18:26, following the Vulgate and a few Greek texts. Some scholars suggest that Priscilla was the head of the family unit.\n\nUltimately, Christian egalitarianism holds that all people are equal in fundamental worth and moral status. A significant source of this trend of thought is the Christian notion that humankind were created in the living image of God \"(Imago Dei)\".\n\nJesus Christ did not conform to a mentality unfavorable to women, but reacted against inequalities based on sexual differences.\n\nIllustrative of efforts to institutionalize this notion are these excerpts from the organizational \"Statement of Faith\" of Christians for Biblical Equality, a major Christian Egalitarian organization:\n\nThe first organization whose purpose was advocating Christian egalitarianism was \"Men, Women and God\", established in the United Kingdom in 1984. The American organization Christians for Biblical Equality was established by evangelicals in 1987.\n\nTitled in accordance with Rosemary Radford Ruether's work in Christian theology, Egalitarian anthropologies explore varying views of gender equality in Christianity. These include eschatological feminism, liberal feminism, and romantic feminism. According to Ruether, the commonality among these anthropologies is the belief that gender equality was the original intention of God and that it was somehow skewed by humanity. Ruether goes on to point out that the belief in the ideal of gender equality \"leaves room for considerable variation in relating this equality to woman's present subjugated state in history under patriarchy.\" In the preceding statement, Ruether qualifies the need for further exploration into the following anthropologies.\n\nRuether connects eschatological feminism to mysticism and asceticism by way of its roots in transcendentalism. Her assertion is that the original human, Adam, was androgynous and that \"the fall\" was the initial creation of gender. She reaffirms this point in a later article, \"Sexism and Misogyny in the Christian Tradition: Liberating Alternatives\", referencing Galatians 3:28, saying that through baptism androgyny is restored. Sexuality, the main division between genders, is said to be the root of female subordination. Relationships that are typically rooted in sexuality (marriage and motherhood) place women in roles that are subordinate in accordance with society's patriarchal norms. The path to equality is believed to be found when women transcend these roles- traditionally through celibacy (as seen in the life of Paul). Transcending worldly norms, which the Bible instructs Christians to do, brings men and women to the state of androgyny that eliminates gender subordination; thus, Christianity is intended to manifest gender equality. Ruether says that transcendence is the core of eschatological feminism; women reach equality with men by separating from the world, rather than changing it.\n\nLiberal feminism rejects the notion that creation established the patriarchy; Ruether asserts that gender equality originally existed, but was distorted by historical injustices against women. This branch of egalitarianism dictates that gender equality must be restored rather than introduced. This restoration will be accomplished by economic, political, social, and systemic reformation. Ruether includes the church in her discussion of social reform, displaying its participation in gender subordination. Ruether continues saying, \"The Church as a bearer of redeemed humanity ought especially to represent this equality of men and women in its institutional life. But it does so as a paradigm of what all social institutions should become, not as a representative of an eschatological humanity outside of and beyond history.\" Here she distinguishes liberal from eschatological feminism stating that liberal feminism calls for liberation within society, rather than removal from it.\n\nRuether states that in romantic feminism the distinction between genders is found primarily in \"spiritual\" traits. Ruether references a sixteenth century humanist, Cornelius Agrippa, saying that women have an \"affinity with divine Wisdom that gives them moral and spiritual superiority.\" Women are perceived to be innately altruistic, sensitive, and pure- traits that are considered morally superior compared to \"male traits.\" Ruether continues saying that men and women are both inherently capable of goodness, but because of the patriarchy placing men into positions of power, more negative character traits are manifested (pride, aggression, dominance, etc.). Since women are not allowed into positions of power, Ruether supposes that they retain humanity's natural goodness. Romantic feminism contains varying ideologies in itself which are as follows.\n\nAccording to Ruether, conservative romanticism suggests that women remain in the home in order to maintain their goodness. Ruether says, \"If a woman leaves the home to take up a traditional male occupation, she will straightaway lose this good femininity and become a she-male, a monstrous virago, or will become debased to carnal femaleness, fallen woman.\" In one survey conducted in 1999 a researcher concluded based on participants' responses, \"Even though husbands were not always the sole providers, for the majority of men they remained symbolically so, such that women's employment was nearly always described as secondary, even expendable, in light of wives' responsibility to rear and nurture children.\" Conservative romanticism opposes gender equality in the work force in order to better preserve traditional roles in the home. Women's innate goodness makes her the ideal candidate to raise children and to support the husband. In turn, this spousal support allows the husband to perform better in the workforce; this trickle effect of women sending good husbands and sons into the world is how conservative romantics suppose women make an impact.\n\nReformist romanticism aligns with conservative romanticism except in the reformist belief that the inherent goodness of women cannot be lost by equality in society. Ruether says that this ideology prescribes women to morally reform men and male-centric institutions, but to do so they require education, voting rights, and political power. Reformist romanticism believes that the innate goodness of women is needed in leadership positions to improve the nature of the world. It is also believed that the nature of women is incompatible with war and that under female leadership, the world would be at peace.\n\nRadical feminism rejects the entirety of male culture and debates whether males can be redeemed at all. Ruether says that radical feminists desire a utopian society completely independent from males in which women's inherent goodness is unimpeded by male inferiority.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church has formally opposed \"radical egalitarianism\" and has stated that the differences between men and women are not merely phenomenal, but are in fact ontological in nature.\n\nIn his 2004 \"Letter to the Bishops of the Catholic Church on the Collaboration of Men and Women in the Church and in the World\", Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger warned against a related tendency to see gender as culturally constructed, which has generated \"a new model of polymorphous sexuality\", which reflects an \"attempt to be free from one’s biological conditioning\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26475925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26475925", "title": "David Favrholdt", "text": "David Favrholdt\n\nDavid Favrholdt (24 April 1931 – 6 December 2012) was a Danish philosopher, educated with M.A.s in psychology and philosophy and later Dr. Phil. from Copenhagen University. He is one of few Danes to be included in the \"International Who's Who\".\n\nIn 1958 he got a gold medal for his thesis on the concept of consciousness at the University of Aarhus. He was employed as Professor in 1966 by University of Southern Denmark until his retirement, and Professor Emeritus afterwards. He became a member of the Academia Europaea in 1989, and a member of the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences in 1976. He was editor of \"Symposium\" from 1968 to 1978 and the \"Danish Yearbook of Philosophy\" from the 1985 to 1991. He has been a member of the National Committee of the International Union of History and Philosophy of Science since 1982 and chairman of the union from 1990 to 1998. Moreover, he won Fyens Stiftstidende's research prize in 1972.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "236255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236255", "title": "David Guest (communist)", "text": "David Guest (communist)\n\nDavid Guest (6 January 1911– 28 July 1938) was a British mathematician and philosopher who volunteered to fight for the Republicans in the Spanish Civil War and was killed in Spain in 1938.\n\nGuest was the son of Leslie Haden-Guest, 1st Baron Haden-Guest. He entered Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1929 and studied from 1930 to 1931 in Göttingen in Germany, where he was sentenced to two weeks in prison for anti-Nazi political activity. On his return he joined the Communist Party at Cambridge in 1931. There Guest became the head of a party cell that included John Cornford, Guy Burgess, Donald Maclean, Victor Kiernan and James Klugmann. This enabled dons such as Maurice Dobb and John Bernal to take a back-seat. It was claimed that David Guest would \"stride into hall at Trinity wearing a hammer and sickle pin in his lapel.\" \n\nAfter leaving Cambridge Guest lectured in mathematics and worked for the Communist party at the \"Peoples' Bookshop\" in Lavender Hill, also teaching for a short while at a secondary school for English-speaking children in Moscow.\n\nIn 1938 he left his post as a lecturer at University College in Southampton to volunteer for the International Brigades fighting in Spain. He wrote of his decision:\nGuest arrived in Spain on 31 March 1938 and joined the British Battalion of the International Brigades. The Battalion went into action at the Battle of the Ebro which began on 25 July 1938. Three days later, on 28 July 1938, David Guest was killed on Hill 481 at Gandesa by a sniper as he read a newspaper.\n\nAfter his death, notes he had made while lecturing at the Marx Memorial Workers' School were published as \"A Text Book of Dialectical Materialism\" in 1939.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29324179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29324179", "title": "De libero arbitrio (Augustine)", "text": "De libero arbitrio (Augustine)\n\nDe libero arbitrio (libri tres) (English: On Free Choice of the Will) is a book by Augustine of Hippo about the freedom of will. Young Augustine wrote it in three volumes, one 387–389 in Rome, after his baptism, and the other two between 391 and 395, after his priestly ordination in Africa.\n\nThe author started \"De libero arbitrio\" as a part of a series of works against Manichaeism and argued in favor of aspects of Scepticism. Augustine challenged Determinism in the first volume and investigated the conditions of the existence of God and knowledge in the other two parts.\n\n"}
{"id": "4546680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4546680", "title": "Dispensationalist theology", "text": "Dispensationalist theology\n\nDispensational theology refers to the unified teachings of dispensationalism that address what other views teach as divergent theologies in the Old Testament and New Testament. Its name reflects a view that biblical history is best understood as a series of dispensations, or separated time-periods, in the Bible.\n\nEach dispensation is said to represent a different way in which God deals with man. Some writers also believe that it also involves a different testing of Man. \"These periods are marked off in Scripture by some change in God's method of dealing with mankind, in respect to two questions: of sin, and of man's responsibility,\" explained C. I. Scofield. \"Each of the dispensations may be regarded as a new test of the natural man, and each ends in judgment—marking his utter failure in every dispensation.\"\n\nDispensationalism seeks to address what many see as opposing theologies between the Old Testament and New Testament. Its name comes from the fact that it sees biblical history as best understood in light of a series of dispensations in the Bible. Most dispensationalists cite seven dispensations although this is not a critical or foundational factor to the theology: \n\nJohn Nelson Darby did not consider the Garden of Eden to represent a dispensation, and listed only six.\n\nEach one of these dispensations is said to represent a different way in which God deals with man, specifically a different test for man. \"These periods are marked off in Scripture by some change in God's method of dealing with mankind, in respect to two questions: of sin, and of man's responsibility,\" explained C. I. Scofield. \"Each of the dispensations may be regarded as a new test of the natural man, and each ends in judgment—marking his utter failure in every dispensation.\"\n\nViewing the flow of biblical history as a series of \"dispensations\" may be seen in some works that predate Darby's dispensationalism. Joachim of Fiore proposed that human history would be divided into the three ages of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. The term \"dispensation\" is drawn from Calvinist theology, as in the Westminster Confession, to describe the different forms of divine worship and law practiced in Judaism and Christianity. Some writers, such as \"L'Économie Divine\" by Pierre Poiret (1646–1719), listed multiple dispensations. However, these earlier works did not include the unique testing/failure motif described by Scofield or any hint of the four underlying tenets of classic dispensationalism listed below.\n\nAn alternative to the above “seven-dispensations” approach derives from the question: How and by whom is God evangelizing lost men and women at any given time? A pattern can be traced through the Bible from Genesis to Revelation. First, through various Gentile nations; second, through Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob—the progenitors of the nation Israel; thirdly, through Jesus Christ; fourthly, through the Church, the Body of Christ. (Israel becomes the focus of divine dealings again after the Rapture for 7 more years). This is followed by the Second Coming proper and the instituting of the millennial kingdom.\n\n\nOne of the most important underlying theological concepts for dispensationalists is progressive revelation. While some nondispensationalists start with progressive revelation in the New Testament and refer this revelation back into the Old Testament, dispensationalists begin with progressive revelation in the Old Testament and read forward in a historical sense. Therefore, there is an emphasis on discontinuity as seen in Scripture. Biblical covenants are intricately tied to the dispensations. When these Biblical covenants are compared and contrasted, the result is a historical ordering of different dispensations. Also with regard to the different Biblical covenant promises, dispensationalists place more emphasis on to whom these promises were written, the original recipients. This has led to certain fundamental dispensational beliefs, such as a distinction between Israel and the church.\n\nAnother important theological concept is the emphasis on what is referred to as the historical-grammatical method of interpretation. This is often popularly referred to as the \"literal\" interpretation of Scripture. Just as it is with progressive revelation, the historical-grammatical method is not a concept or practice that is exclusive to dispensationalists. However, a dispensational distinctive is created when the historical-grammatical method of interpretation is closely coupled with an emphasis on progressive revelation along with the historical development of the covenants in Scripture.\n\nAll dispensationalists perceive a clear distinction between Israel and the church, particularly as different groups who receive a different set of promises. Dispensationalists hold that God provided the nation of Israel with specific promises which will be fulfilled at a future time in the Jews. The Church has received a different set of promises than that of Israel. Most dispensationalists also recognize \"membership\" overlap between Israel and the Church. Jewish Christians such as Paul, Peter and John are in this category. While most do not believe that Israel and the church are mutually exclusive groups, there is a small minority of past and present dispensationalists who do. Those who do hold that Israel and the church are mutually exclusive include some classical dispensationalists and virtually all ultradispensationalists.\n\nClassical dispensationalism teaches that law and grace are mutually exclusive concepts. Statements made by Scofield and other early classic dispensationalists teach a radical law-grace distinction. In other words, they teach that law \"contains\" no grace, and that grace is not \"conditioned\" on keeping the law. This does not mean that grace was missing from the dispensation of law, only that the law itself was diametrically opposed to grace, which operated by other means (such as promises and blessings). Some modern dispensationalists disagree with making such a radical distinction. In fact, Daniel Fuller, a non-dispensationalist, stated in his book \"Gospel and Law\" (p. 51) that \"Although today's dispensationalism explains the relationship between law and grace in wording that is different from that of covenant theology, there is no substantial difference in meaning.\"\n\nEarly dispensational writers such as Darby and Chafer are referred to as classical dispensationalists. This view differs from today's traditional or \"revised\" dispensationalists. The early Scofield Bible (but not the Revised Scofield Bible) reflects a classical dispensational view. Classical dispensationalists are a small minority today, and Miles Stanford is one writer who represents this point of view. Also known as Pauline dispensationalism, they hold to an Acts 2 start for the church and practice water baptism and the Lord's Supper. Many of the peculiar doctrines taught by this position have also been taught in the Mid-Acts camp (hyperdispensationalism) which has even used the 'Pauline Dispensationalism' moniker to describe their doctrine. Yet hyperdispensationalists today have not necessarily maintained these teachings due to no central authority and a desire to be faithful to Scripture. Meanwhile, Acts 2 Pauline Dispensationalism in some camps (Peter Ruckman, Douglas Stauffer, William Grady) have garnered a reputation of being as extreme as the hyperdispensationalists and ultradispensationalists in making sharp distinctions between the earthly/prophetic program for Israel and the heavenly/mystery program for the church, as well as, teaching different ways of salvation in different dispensations.\n\nThe traditional view is the majority view for dispensationalists today. John Walvoord and Charles Ryrie are two traditional dispensational authors. The Revised Scofield Bible of the 1960s also reflects a traditional dispensational view, which is why traditional dispensationalists are sometimes called \"Revised\" dispensationalists.\n\nIn the late 1980s a number of dispensational scholars—in particular Craig A. Blaising, Darrell L. Bock, and Robert L. Saucy—proposed a significant new position developed from within dispensationalism. The major difference between traditional and progressive dispensationalism is in how each views the relationship of the present dispensation to the past and future dispensations.\n\nTraditional dispensationalists perceive the present age of grace to be a parenthesis or \"intercalation\" with relation to past and future dispensations. In general that means God's plans as revealed in the past dispensations have been \"put on hold\" until after the rapture. Progressive dispensationalists however hold that this present dispensation is a key link between past dispensations and the future dispensations. In general that means God's plans have continued in this present dispensation, marking it as a crucial link between past and future dispensations and not a parenthesis. This idea of a key link or progression between dispensations has resulted in the label progressive dispensationalism.\n\nProgressive dispensationalism holds much in common with traditional dispensationalism, including a distinction between Israel and the Church, a future rapture, a 7-year tribulation, and the rule of Christ over the earth centered in Jerusalem during the millennial kingdom.\n\nBoth progressive and traditional dispensationalists hold to a clear distinction between Israel and the Church. In short, God has provided the nation of Israel with specific promises such as possession of the land, promises which will be fulfilled in the future. Both Progressive and traditional dispensationalists do recognize some \"membership\" overlap between the Israel and the Church: Jewish Christians such Paul, Peter, and John are all Jewish (of Israel) and Christian (members of the church). This is in contrast to ultradispensationalists who see the Church and Israel as mutually exclusive.\n\nBoth progressive and traditional dispensationalists hold to a distinctly \"dispensational\" end-time view with a pretribulation rapture and a millennial kingdom with Jesus physically reigning from Jerusalem. This common view with traditional dispensationalism is also what clearly distinguishes progressive dispensationalism from historical premillennialism.\n\nThe reasons for progressives holding to a progression of dispensations as opposed to a parenthesis is related to:\n1) the relationship between the covenants, and\n2) hermeneutics.\n\nOne of the most crucial covenants which highlight the differences between progressive and traditional dispensationalists is the new covenant. In the past, dispensationalists have had a surprising variety of views with regard to the new covenant. Some dispensationalists (Charles Ryrie, Walvoord in the 1950s) argued for two new covenants: one new covenant for the church and another new covenant for Israel. Other dispensationalists (Darby and John Master) argued for one new covenant applied only to Israel. And still other dispensationalists (Scofield and John McGahey 1950s) have argued for one new covenant for 1) believing Israel today and an ongoing partial fulfillment, and for 2) a future believing Israel when Jesus returns for a complete fulfillment.\n\nProgressive dispensationalists, like Scofield and McGahey, argue for one new covenant with an ongoing partial fulfillment and a future complete fulfillment for Israel. Progressives hold that the new covenant was inaugurated by Christ at the last supper. Progressives hold that while there are aspects of the new covenant currently being fulfilled, there is yet to be a final and complete fulfillment of the new covenant in the future. This concept is sometimes referred to as an already-but not yet fulfillment.\n\nBoth traditional and progressive dispensationalists share the same historical-grammatical hermeneutic. As with all dispensationalists, progressive revelation is emphasized so that the dispensationalist interprets the Old Testament in such a way as to retain the original meaning and audience. Thus progressives, like traditionalists, place great emphasis on the original meaning and audience of the text.\n\nThe primary differences in hermeneutics between traditionalists and progressives are that\n1) progressives are more apt to see \"partial or ongoing fulfillment\", and\n2) progressives are more apt to utilize complementary hermeneutics.\n\nThese differences between traditionalists and progressives show up in how one views the Old Testament texts and promises in the New Testament and how they are handled by the New Testament writers.\n\nFor traditionalists who perceive the present dispensation as a parenthesis, the standard approach has been to view Old Testament quotations in the New Testament as applications rather than fulfillment. If an Old Testament quotation is said to have a fulfillment role in the New Testament, then that may imply that the present dispensation is no longer a parenthesis, but has a relationship or connection with the prior dispensation.\n\nIn contrast, progressives, instead of approaching all Old Testament quotations in the New Testament as application, attempt to take into account the context and grammatical-historical features of both OT and New Testament texts. An Old Testament quote in the New Testament might turn out to be an application, but it also might be a partial fulfillment or a complete fulfillment or even something else.\n\nComplementary hermeneutics means that previous revelation (such as the Old Testament) has an added or expanded meaning alongside the original meaning. For example, in Jeremiah 31:31-34, the original recipients of the new covenant were Jews - i.e., \"the house of Israel and the house of Judah.\" Progressives hold that in Acts 2, believing Jews first participated in the new covenant based on Jer 31:31-34. Gentiles were not named as original participants. However, additional revelation came in Acts 9-10 concerning believing Gentiles where God (through Peter and Cornelius) formally accepted believing Gentiles as co-heirs with the Jews. In other words, God used additional NT revelation to further expand the participants of the new covenant to include believing Gentiles. God did not \"replace\" the original recipients or change the original meaning of the new covenant, he simply expanded it. This expansion of meaning while keeping the original intact is called complementary hermeneutics.\n\nThe majority of dispensationalists are known as \"Acts 2 dispensationalists\". They believe the present church began on the day of Pentecost in Acts chapter 2 and practice water baptism. The majority also believe the New Testament epistles of Hebrews through Revelation were written directly to the present church. Likewise, most dispensationalists also believe the doctrine contained in the Four Gospels also pertains to the present church.\n\nHowever, there are two minority camps within dispensationalism branded by their opponents as hyper-dispensationalists and ultra-dispensationalists. One camp, known as the \"Mid-Acts view\", believes the church began with the Apostle Paul (in either Acts chapter 9 or others in chapter 13 and there are a very few variations) and do not practice water baptism as it is seen as only for Israel. The second camp believes that the church began with the Apostle Paul after Acts 28:28 with Paul's announcement \"Be it known therefore unto you, that the salvation of God is sent unto the Gentiles, and that they will hear it\" and see both water baptism and the Lord's Supper as only for Israel. The Acts 28 camp sees Paul's ministry from the middle of Acts to the end of the book as part of Israel's administration of the Abrahamic Covenant and not part of the present dispensation, and consequently Paul's epistles written prior to the so-called Prison Epistles are then not directly for the church today either.\n\nBoth views believe that the Church of today is based on Paul's unique ministry. This belief is referenced in Scripture in what may be referred to as the \"Pauline Distinctive\" and the \"Gospel of the Grace of God\", and marks an unmistakable shift away from the Mosaic law and the beginning of a completely new Church, called the \"Body of Christ\" consisting of both Jews and Gentiles \"in one body.\" It is this distinction, rather than eschatology as such, that marks both camps. The Acts 2 camp says that the mystery of the church was merely first revealed through Paul rather than actually starting with Paul. The Mid-Acts and Acts 28 camps point out that Acts 2 was merely the beginning of the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy concerning the New Covenant made only with Israel. Nothing new that was not prophesied was going on there nor is there any indication of the equality found in the church which is Christ's body in which Jew and Gentile are joint-heirs. Rather the men of Israel were being addressed concerning their king, kingdom, and their restoration unto it. Both the Mid-Acts and Acts 28 camps hold that all prophecy belongs to Israel and their literal kingdom and is not for the church. The New Covenant is with Israel and not the church. Christ's shed blood is the basis for redemption for all, as well as, the New Covenant for Israel. The New Covenant is not the cause of redemption, rather the shed blood is the cause for both. Thus the Acts 2 camp is inconsistent in failing to maintain the dispensational distinction between \"prophecy\" and \"mystery,\" i.e., the earthly kingdom program for Israel from the heavenly program for the church.\n\nOne notable implication of both hyper-dispensationalism and ultra-dispensationalism is the view that the doctrine contained in the four Gospels (biographies of Jesus' earthly ministry) and many of the New Testament epistles written by the Twelve Apostles was directly applicable to the Jews of Jesus' day, and which will come to fruition in the coming millennial kingdom. These books are held as proclaiming the \"Gospel of the Kingdom\", and as such are not directly applicable for the member of Christ's body church of today. Furthermore, the Acts 28 position holds that the pre-prison Pauline Epistles are for the Israelite Church of the Acts period with its own distinct dispensation of the Spirit, and not for the Body of Christ Church today. Meanwhile, the Mid-Acts position rather sees a transition in early Acts from the former dispensation and only one church during this period and thus all of Paul's epistles are the direct teachings to the Church as they proclaim the Gospel of the Grace of God first revealed through the apostle to the Gentiles/uncircumcision.\n\nThe prefixes \"hyper\" or \"ultra\" mean \"further than\", and are not meant to be derogatory terms, although some mainstream dispensationalists use them as such. These two groups are branded by the opponents as \"hyper-dispensationalists\" and \"ultra-dispensationalists\" because they tend to take dispensational concepts further than those of the Acts 2 persuasion. They themselves see this as simply being consistent with the dispensational distinction that is supposed to be maintained between Israel and the church.\n\nPrior to dispensationalism's 19-20th century systemization, covenant theology was the prominent Protestant view regarding redemptive history and is still the view of the Reformed churches. A relatively recent view, which is seen as a third alternative, especially among some Baptists, is called New Covenant theology.\n\nThe early Christian theologians saw the New Covenant in Christ as a replacement for the Mosaic Covenant. Historically, statements on behalf of the Roman Catholic Church have claimed her ecclesiastical structures to be a fulfillment and replacement of Jewish ecclesiastical structures (see also Jerusalem as an allegory for the Church). As recently as 1965 Vatican Council II affirmed, \"the Church is the new people of God,\" without intending to make \"Israel according to the flesh\", the Jewish people, irrelevant in terms of eschatology. Modern Catholicism affirms these spokesmen as authoritative for doctrine, alongside the New Testament. Modern Protestants hold to a range of positions, some with more emphasis on continuity (covenant theology) and others with more emphasis on discontinuity (dispensationalism and New Covenant Theology).\n\n"}
{"id": "18925514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18925514", "title": "Eligible bachelor", "text": "Eligible bachelor\n\nAn eligible bachelor is a bachelor considered to be a particularly desirable potential husband, usually due to wealth, social status or other specific personal qualities. \nIn the United Kingdom, the heir to the throne or someone close in succession is often considered to be the nation's, or the world's most eligible bachelor, due to their social status, as has happened with Prince Charles and Prince William.\n\nJane Austen's novels are often concerned with the heroine's relationship with an eligible bachelor. Jane Austen's \"Emma\" particularly concerns a woman's attempt to obtain a husband for her friend by embellishing the truth. The gentleman in that case sees it as an example of the matchmaker's creativity and falls in love with her.\n\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s, Rock Hudson was hailed as an eligible bachelor. In the past, if a man chose to remain an eligible bachelor for long he may have been suspected of being homosexual. The term 'confirmed bachelor' has fallen from common usage, as past life patterns involving marriage, divorce and prolonged bachelorhood have been altered for men since the advent of the sexual revolution.\n\nRobin Lakoff argues that the term indicates an inequality between men and women, as an \"eligible bachelor\" chooses to be a bachelor, whereas an \"eligible spinster\" does not have a choice. Lakoff believes this use of language fosters, and grows from, sexual discrimination. Lakoff states \"women are given their identity in our society by virtue of their relationship with men, and not vice versa.\" Another set of criteria that purports to determine a man's desirability to women is the \"666 dating rule\" or \"rule of sixes\", which are a set of minimum male qualities centred around the number six, namely a six feet height, a six-hundred horsepower car, six-pack abs, a six-inch penis, six years of higher education (university degree), being at least 6 out of 10 in terms of aesthetic looks, six months since last relationship, a 6,000 square feet house or a six-figure salary, which are sometimes viewed as shallow.\n\n"}
{"id": "2282082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2282082", "title": "Francisco J. Ayala", "text": "Francisco J. Ayala\n\nFrancisco José Ayala Pereda (born March 12, 1934) is a Spanish-American evolutionary biologist and philosopher who was a longtime faculty member at the University of California, Irvine and University of California, Davis. He is a former Dominican priest, ordained in 1960, but left the priesthood that same year. After graduating from the University of Salamanca, he moved to the United States in 1961 to study for a PhD at Columbia University. There, he studied for his doctorate under Theodosius Dobzhansky, graduating in 1964. He became a US citizen in 1971. \n\nHe has been President and Chairman of the Board of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. At University of California, Irvine, his academic appointments included University Professor and Donald Bren Professor of Biological Sciences, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology (|School of Biological Sciences), Professor of Philosophy, (School of Humanities), and Professor of Logic and the Philosophy of Science (School of Social Sciences).\n\nOn July 1, 2018, Dr. Ayala officially resigned from the University of California, Irvine, due to substantiated sexual harassment claims. His name was removed from the School of Biological Sciences, the Science Library, as well as various graduate fellowships, scholarship programs, and endowed chairs. Details of the charges were made public online on July 20th, 2018 in an elaborate 97-page investigative report detailing the sexual harassment that occurred starting from as early as 2003 till 2018.\n\nHe is known for his research on population and evolutionary genetics, and has been called the \"Renaissance Man of Evolutionary Biology\". His \"discoveries have opened up new approaches to the prevention and treatment of diseases that affect hundreds of millions of individuals worldwide\", including demonstrating the reproduction of \"Trypanosoma cruzi\", the agent of Chagas disease, is mostly the product of cloning, and that only a few clones account for most of this widespread, mostly untreatable South American disease that affects 16 million to 18 million people.\n\nHe served on the advisory board of the now defunct Campaign to Defend the Constitution, an organization that has lobbied in support the separation of church and state. He has been publicly critical of U.S. restrictions on federal funding of embryonic stem cell research. He is also a critic of creationism and intelligent design theories, claiming that they are not only pseudoscience, but also misunderstood from a theological point of view. He suggests that the theory of evolution resolves the problem of evil, thus being a kind of theodicy. Although Ayala generally does not discuss his religious views, he has stated that \"science is compatible with religious faith in a personal, omnipotent and benevolent God.\" He also briefly served, in 1960, as a Dominican priest. Ayala does not say whether he remains a religious believer, not wanting to be \"tagged by one side or the other.\"\n\nHe attended the symposium on November 2006. Ayala debated Christian apologist William Lane Craig in November 2009 on the topic of intelligent design.\n\nOn October 18, 2011, UCI announced that Professor Ayala would be donating $10 million to the university's School of Biological Sciences. The gift was to be \"$1 million a year for the next decade.\"\n\nSince 2013, Ayala has been listed on the Advisory Council of the National Center for Science Education.\n\nIn June 2018, UCI announced that it had investigated and confirmed the accusations of four women who claimed that Ayala had sexually harassed them. Ayala resigned, without becoming a professor emeritus, and the university removed his name from the School of Biological Sciences, Science Library, and endowed chairs that had been named after Ayala.. The complete report of the investigation was made public (and then later removed at the request of people close to the case) on the website of the journal \"Science\", detailing multiple incidents of gender-biased and inappropiate comments and actions towards female faculty and students.\n\nIn 2001, Ayala was awarded the National Medal of Science. On April 13, 2007, he was awarded the first of 100 bicentennial medals at Mount Saint Mary's University for lecturing there as the first presenter for the Bicentennial Distinguished Lecture Series. His lecture was entitled \"The Biological Foundations of Morality\". Other awards he has received include the Gold Honorary Gregor Mendel Medal of the Czech Academy of Sciences, the Gold Medal of the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei, the Gold Medal of the Stazione Zoologica in Naples, the President's Award of the American Institute of Biological Sciences, the Scientific Freedom and Responsibility Award and 150th Anniversary Leadership Medal of the AAAS, the Medal of the College of France, the UCI Medal of the University of California, the 1998 Distinguished Scientist Award from the SACNAS, and Sigma Xi's William Procter Prize for Scientific Achievement, 2000. In 2010, he was awarded the Templeton Prize. The science library at UCI was named after him from 2010 to 2018, when his name was removed after substantiated allegations of sexual harassment. Ayala delivered a lecture at the Trotter Prize ceremony in 2011 entitled \"Darwin's Gift to Science and Religion.\" In 2014, UCI named its School of Biological Sciences the Francisco J. Ayala School of Biological Sciences after Ayala. UCI removed his name from the library and school in 2018, after finding that he sexually harassed at least four women.\n\nAyala was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1977. He is a member of the United States National Academy of Sciences and the American Philosophical Society. He is also a foreign member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei in Rome, the Spanish Royal Academy of Sciences, the Mexican Academy of Sciences, and the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. He has honorary degrees from the University of Athens, the University of Bologna, the University of Barcelona, the University of the Balearic Islands, the University of León, the University of Madrid, the University of Salamanca, the University of Valencia, the University of Vigo, Far Eastern National University, Masaryk University and University of Warsaw.\n\nFrancisco Ayala was born to Francisco Ayala and Soledad Pereda. In the late 1960s he met Mary Henderson, they married on May 27, 1968. They had two sons: Francisco José (b. 1969) and Carlos Alberto (b. 1972). Their marriage ended in divorce, and in 1985 he married an ecologist named Hana Ayala (née Lostakova). They live in Irvine, California.\n\nAyala has published 950 publications and 30 books. Recently published books include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5017729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5017729", "title": "Francisque Bouillier", "text": "Francisque Bouillier\n\nFrancisque Bouillier (12 July 1813 – 25 September 1899) was a French philosopher, born in Lyons. He studied at the École Normale Supérieure, Paris, and in 1839 was appointed professor of philosophy at the University of Lyons. From 1849 to 1864 he was dean of the faculty at Lyons and from 1867 to 1870 director of the École Normale Supérieure. His works include: \n\n"}
{"id": "46948602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46948602", "title": "Georg Stenger", "text": "Georg Stenger\n\nGeorg Stenger is a German philosopher and professor and chair of the department of philosophy at the University of Vienna.\nHe is known for his works on structural ontology, intercultural philosophy, Heidegger's philosophy and also his contributions to Heidegger Gesamtausgabe. \nStenger is the president of Society of Intercultural Philosophy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39198259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39198259", "title": "Graded Salience Hypothesis", "text": "Graded Salience Hypothesis\n\nGraded Salience Hypothesis is the theory regarding irony processing developed by Rachel Giora, that assumes the priority of salient over less salient meaning in the process of language comprehension.\n\nThe meaning of a word is considered salient, if it is coded in the mental lexicon. Still, the degree of salience of a given word meaning cannot be viewed as a permanent, defining characteristic, but rather as a function of a number of factors, such as frequency, conventionality, familiarity, and prototypicality. The more frequent, conventional, familiar, or prototypical a given word meaning is, the greater degree of salience it holds.\n\nThe graded salience hypothesis revolves around two major assumptions:\n1. Salient meaning of a word is always activated and cannot be bypassed.\n2. Salient meaning is always activated first, before the less salient meanings.\n\nIn the view of the graded salience hypothesis, context has a very limited role. Even though it can facilitate activation of a word meaning, it cannot inhibit the process of the more salient meaning activation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21167593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21167593", "title": "Ionian Enlightenment", "text": "Ionian Enlightenment\n\nThe Ionian Enlightenment was a set of advances in scientific thought, explanations on nature, and discovering the natural and rational causes behind observable phenomena, that took place in archaic Greece beginning in the 6th century BC. This movement began on the Ionian coast of western Anatolia by small numbers of forward-thinking Greeks (see Ionian School and Milesian School) from cities such as Miletus, Samos, and Halicarnassus. They saw the world as something ordered and intelligible, its history following an explicable course and its different parts arranged in a comprehensible system. Most historians agree that Thales, one of the Seven Sages of Greece, started this movement by predicting a solar eclipse that actually occurred, though some believe this feat to be false.\n\nThe Greek city of Miletus was the birthplace of Greek philosophy and Western scientific thought. Their culture combined the best of a resurgent Greek civilization with borrowings from Egypt and the Middle East. Internally, the politics of the Milesians were of faction, strife, and bloody revolution; externally, they were neighbored by two powerful empires in the Lydians and Persians. Despite these unfavorable circumstances, the Milesians were commercially indefatigable. With its three harbors and progeny of daughter colonies, Miletus was the “Jewel of Ionia.” They traded not only with the Eastern empires, but also with Egypt; they sent out numerous colonies to settle in Thrace and along the coast of the Black Sea; and they had connections with Sybaris in southern Italy. Miletus bred Thales, Anaximander, and Anaximenes; the first three philosophers. Miletus was an essential location for this intellectual revolution to flourish because that they had connections with the great civilizations of Egypt, Mesopotamia, and Anatolia which in turn allowed for a vast array of exchange of goods and ideas from across the Mediterranean and three continents.\n\nUp until this point in time (6th century BC) the Greeks, and many empires before them, explained the events of the world as products of supernatural actions of divine agents. This can be seen in the writings of Homer and Hesiod, two famous Greek poets. With the introduction of rational and natural thought the Milesian Presocratic philosophers, as they were termed, attempted to produce an improved and rationalized theology in place of the anthropomorphic divinities of the Olympian pantheon. But their theology had little to do with religion, and they removed most of the traditional functions from the gods, such as thunder was no longer the growling of a minatory Zeus or that Poseidon created storms. This new Presocratic approach gave no direct credence to traditional lore and furthermore these philosophers simply ignored the kinds of explanations that were imbedded in myths and advanced their own accounts on the basis, not of tradition, but of reasons. Their approach refused to allow any supernatural actions to govern natural processes. This rejection of the supernatural did not make the philosophers atheists, rather it made them subordinate divine action to natural law which was known as Physis. These first philosophers offered reasons for their opinions and gave arguments for their views. For the most part, they were concerned not to advance opinions, but to advance reasoned opinions.\n\nThis school of thought is made up of the philosophies of three Presocratic philosophers: Thales, Anaximander, and Anaximenes. These philosophers all hailed from the Greek city state of Miletus and are known as the first philosophers. Their philosophy is what started the Ionian Intellectual Revolution.\n\nAccording to Aristotle, Thales of Miletus was the “Founder of Natural Philosophy.” Even though he is recognized as the founder of philosophy much of what we know about him and his philosophy is up to debate because he left no writings for which early students of philosophy could rely on. Known as one of the Seven Sages, which was an exclusive club of poets and statesmen, he was the only one who could claim to be a philosopher and scientist. Thales is credited with being a political adviser, philosopher, scientist, mathematician, and engineer. Throughout his life he is alleged to have traveled and studied throughout the Mediterranean in places such as Egypt, Phoenicia, and Babylon which all influenced his philosophy and theories. Thales allegedly founded geometry, although he may have been taught this in Egypt, and also studied the stars. Thales tried to search for the arkhe, which can be translated to searching for the source for all things. He believed the source for all things (arkhe) was water. This is based on the notion that somehow all things, and more importantly all living things, originate in water and therefore water is the basic starting-point of everything. The apparent stability of the Earth became one phenomenon for which any self-respecting natural philosopher had to have an explanation, for Thales he believed the Earth rested upon water. \n\nAnaximander was a pupil of Thales. Many historians start the beginning of Greek Philosophy and therefore the Ionian Intellectual Revolution with Anaximander since Thales did not leave any written records. Therefore, there is not any reliable information on Thales and the various elements of his thought and practice. Anaximander is responsible for the oldest surviving fragment of Greek philosophical writing. He, as with Thales, offered his own insight into what he believed the arkhe to be which for him was termed “the boundless” (apeiron). This boundless he describes as a principle that is neither water nor any of the other so called elements, but instead some different limitless nature. His principle of “boundless” meant that if mass is anywhere, it is everywhere; at the same time, if empty space is limitless, body too must be limitless. He never explicitly states what this boundless principle is made up of and therefore creates an inevitable question for ancient and modern scholars. Anaximander also theorized about astronomical phenomena such as the distances of the sun, moon, and stars and about the origin and development of living things in the world. He was the first to try and draw the inhabited world on a tablet, and with the help of a traveler from Miletus this tablet was made more accurate. Throughout his life he provides explanations for the existence of the sea, wind, storms, thunder, lightning, and deals a lot with biology.\n\nAnaximenes was a pupil of Anaximander. Of the three philosophers of the Milesian school, Anaximenes is often thought of as the least important simply because he took Anaximander’s grand vision of cosmology and identified a mechanism by which it might operate. As with those before him, Anaximenes’ arkhe was air (aer). His major philosophical advancement was to posit a clear and definite mechanism by which this aer is transformed into the various more familiar components of the world, thereby tying the world and the arkhe together. Anaximenes theory of change reported that air is the source of everything; there is a set of elements or basic stuffs: (i) fire, (ii) air, (iii) wind, (iv) cloud, (v) water, (vi) earth, (vii) stones, which are ordered by their relative density; and the condensation process is analogous to the action of felting. Anaximenes is usually viewed as the inventor of Material Monism, the theory by which there is only one substance (in this case air) of which all other stuffs are mere modifications or states.\n\nHistorians tend to debate on whether the early Greek philosophers were influenced by other ancient empires during the 6th century BC or were the first to think about theory and other sciences such as astrology. Below are some of the possible influencers of the Ionian Intellectual Revolution:\n\nBabylonians were known for their vast knowledge of the skies. Temple Priests kept detailed observations of the skies in order to report and anticipate ominous phenomena. Records of eclipses have been found from around 747 BC. The Babylonians also developed a complex system of mathematics based on the number sixty, which they used to track the motions of the sun and moon. Babylonian archives contained vast stores of mathematical and astronomical data on cuneiform tablets. The eclipse that Thales predicted, which began this movement, may have been done off the basis of Babylonian tablets.\n\nEgyptians were known for their vast knowledge of arithmetic. It is possible that Thales brought back a knowledge of “geometry” from Egypt. The roots of the Greek word mean “earth-measurement”, indicating that kind of science he would have encountered there: practical surveying. Egyptians used scribes who had a knowledge of basic arithmetic on which to base practical questions of ordering supplies and the like. They used a simple but highly practical year of 365 days and made simple astronomical observations.\n\n"}
{"id": "206995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206995", "title": "James Martineau", "text": "James Martineau\n\nJames Martineau (; 21 April 1805 – 11 January 1900) was an English religious philosopher influential in the history of Unitarianism.\n\nFor 45 years he was Professor of Mental and Moral Philosophy and Political Economy in Manchester New College, the principal training college for British Unitarianism.\n\nMany portraits of Martineau, including one painted by George Frederick Watts, are held at London's National Portrait Gallery. In 2014, the gallery revealed that its patron, Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, was related to Martineau. The Duchess' great-great-grandfather, Francis Martineau Lupton, was Dr James Martineau's grandnephew. The gallery also holds written correspondence between Martineau and Poet Laureate, Alfred, Lord Tennyson - who records that he \"regarded Martineau as the master mind of all the remarkable company with whom he engaged\". William Ewart Gladstone said of Martineau; \"he is beyond question the greatest of living thinkers\".\n\nOne of his children was the Pre-Raphaelite watercolourist Edith Martineau.\n\nThe seventh of eight children, James Martineau was born in Norwich, England, where his father Thomas (1764–1826) was a cloth manufacturer and merchant. His mother, Elizabeth Rankin, was the eldest daughter of a sugar refiner and grocer. The Martineau family were descended from Gaston Martineau, a Huguenot surgeon and refugee, who married Marie Pierre in 1693, and settled in Norwich. His son and grandson — respectively the great-grandfather and grandfather of James Martineau — were surgeons in the same city. Many of the family were active in Unitarian causes, so much so that a room in Essex Hall, the headquarters of British Unitarianism, was eventually named after them. Branches of the Martineau family in Norwich, Birmingham and London were socially and politically prominent Unitarians; other elite Unitarian families in Birmingham were the Kenricks, Nettlefolds and the Chamberlains, with much intermarriage between these families taking place. Essex Hall held a statue of Martineau. His niece, Frances Lupton, who was close to his sister Harriet, had worked to open up educational opportunities for women.\n\nJames was educated at Norwich Grammar School where he was a school-fellow with George Borrow under Edward Valpy, as good a scholar as his better-known brother Richard, but proved too sensitive for school. He was sent to Bristol to the private academy of Dr. Lant Carpenter, under whom he studied for two years. On leaving he was apprenticed to a civil engineer at Derby, where he acquired \"a store of exclusively scientific conceptions,\" but also began to look to religion for mental stimulation.\n\nMartineau's conversion followed, and in 1822 he entered the dissenting academy Manchester College, then at York - his uncle Peter Finch Martineau was one of its Vice-Presidents. Here he \"woke up to the interest of moral and metaphysical speculations.\" Of his teachers, one, the Rev. Charles Wellbeloved, was, Martineau said, \"a master of the true Lardner type, candid and catholic, simple and thorough, humanly fond indeed of the counsels of peace, but piously serving every bidding of sacred truth.\" The other, the Rev. John Kenrick, he described as a man so learned as to be placed by Dean Stanley \"in the same line with Blomfield and Thirlwall,\" and as \"so far above the level of either vanity or dogmatism, that cynicism itself could not think of them in his presence.\" On leaving the college in 1827 Martineau returned to Bristol to teach in the school of Lant Carpenter; but in the following year he was ordained for a Unitarian church in Dublin, whose senior minister was a relative of his.\n\nMartineau's ministerial career was suddenly cut short in 1832 by difficulties growing out of the \"regium donum\", which had on the death of the senior minister fallen to him. He conceived it as \"a religious monopoly\" to which \"the nation at large contributes,\" while \"Presbyterians alone receive,\" and which placed him in \"a relation to the state\" so \"seriously objectionable\" as to be \"impossible to hold.\" The invidious distinction it drew between Presbyterians on the one hand, and Catholics, members of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers), other nonconformists, unbelievers, and Jews on the other, who were compelled to support a ministry they conscientiously disapproved, offended his conscience. His conscience did, however, allow him to attend both the Coronation of Queen Victoria in 1837 and the her Golden Jubilee half a century later. A year prior to the coronation, at St James's Palace, Martineau had \"kissed the hand\" of the queen at the Deputation of British Presbyterians ministers.\n\nFrom Dublin, he was called to Liverpool. He lodged in a house owned by Joseph Williamson. It was during his 25 years in Liverpool that he published his first work, \"Rationale of Religious Enquiry\", which caught the attention of many religious and philosophical figures.\n\nIn 1840 Martineau was appointed Professor of Mental and Moral Philosophy and Political Economy in Manchester New College, the seminary in which he had been educated, and which had now moved from York back to Manchester. This position, and the principalship (1869-1885), he held for 45 years. In 1853 the college moved to London, and four years later he followed it there. In 1858 he combined this work with preaching at the pulpit of Little Portland Street Chapel in London, which for the first two years he shared with John James Tayler (who was also his colleague in the college), and then for twelve years as its only minister.\n\nIn 1866, the Chair of the Philosophy of Mind and Logic at University College, London, fell vacant when the liberal nonconformist Dr John Hoppus retired. Martineau became a candidate, and despite strong support from some quarters, potent opposition was organised by the anti-clerical George Grote, whose refusal to endorse Martineau resulted in the appointment of George Croom Robertson, then an untried man. Martineau, however, sidestepped Grote's opposition, much as Hoppus had learnt to do during his Professorship, and developed a cordial friendship with Robertson.\n\nMartineau was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1872. He was awarded LL.D. of Harvard in 1872, S.T.D. of Leiden in 1874, D.D. of Edinburgh in 1884, D.C.L. of Oxford in 1888 and D. Litt. of Dublin in 1891.\n\nMartineau described some of the changes he underwent; how he had \"carried into logical and ethical problems the maxims and postulates of physical knowledge,\" and had moved within narrow lines \"interpreting human phenomena by the analogy of external nature\"; and how in a period of \"second education\" at Humboldt University in Berlin, with Friedrich Adolf Trendelenburg, he experienced \"a new intellectual birth\". It made him, however, no more of a theist than he had been before, and he developed Transcendentalist views, which became a significant current within Unitarianism.\n\nMartineau was in his early life a preacher. Although he did not believe in the Incarnation, he held deity to be manifest in humanity; man underwent an apotheosis, and all life was touched with the dignity and the grace which it owed to its source. His preaching led to works that built up his reputation:\"Endeavours after the Christian Life\", 1st series, 1843; 2nd series, 1847; \"Hours of Thought\", 1st series, 1876; 2nd series, 1879; the various hymn-books he issued at Dublin in 1831, at Liverpool in 1840, in London in 1873; and the \"Home Prayers\" in 1891.\n\nIn 1839 Martineau came to the defence of Unitarian doctrine, under attack by Liverpool clergymen including Fielding Ould and Hugh Boyd M‘Neile. In the controversy, Martineau published five discourses, in which he discussed \"the Bible as the great autobiography of human nature from its infancy to its perfection,\" \"the Deity of Christ,\" \"Vicarious Redemption,\" \"Evil,\" and \"Christianity without Priest and without Ritual.\"\n\nIn Martineau's earliest book, \"The Rationale of Religious Enquiry\", published in 1836, he placed the authority of reason above that of Scripture; and he assessed the New Testament as \"uninspired, but truthful; sincere, able, vigorous, but fallible.\" The book marked him down, among older British Unitarians, as a dangerous radical, and his ideas were the catalyst for a pamphlet war in America between George Ripley (who favored Martineau's questioning of the historical accuracy of scripture) and the more conservative Andrews Norton. Despite his belief that the Bible was fallible, Martineau continued to hold the view that \"in no intelligible sense can any one who denies the supernatural origin of the religion of Christ be termed a Christian,\" which term, he explained, was used not as \"a name of praise,\" but simply as \" a designation of belief.\" He censured the German rationalists \"for having preferred, by convulsive efforts of interpretation, to compress the memoirs of Christ and His apostles into the dimensions of ordinary life, rather than admit the operation of miracle on the one hand, or proclaim their abandonment of Christianity on the other.\"\n\nMartineau came to know German philosophy and criticism, especially the criticism of Ferdinand Christian Baur and the Tübingen school, which affected his construction of Christian history. French influences were Ernest Renan and the Strassburg theologians. The rise of evolution compelled him to reformulate his theism. He addressed the public, as editor and contributor, in the \"Monthly Repository\", the \"Christian Reformer\", the \"Prospective Review\", the \"Westminster Review\" and the \"National Review\". Later he was a frequent contributor to the literary monthlies. More systematic expositions came in \"Types of Ethical Theory\" and \"The Study of Religion\", and, partly, in \"The Seat of Authority in Religion\" (1885, 1888 and 1890). What did Jesus signify? This was the problem which Martineau attempted to deal with in \"The Seat of Authority in Religion\".\n\nMartineau's theory of religious society, or church, was that of an idealist. He propounded a scheme, which was not taken up, that would have removed the church from the hands of a clerical order, and allowed the coordination of sects or churches under the state. Eclectic by nature, he gathered ideas from any source that appealed. Stopford Brooke once asked A. P. Stanley, Dean of Westminster, \"if the Church of England would broaden sufficiently to allow James Martineau to be made Archbishop of Canterbury\".\n\nAlthough he had opposed the removal (1889) of Manchester New College to Oxford, Martineau took part in the opening of the new buildings, conducting the communion service (19 October 1893) in the chapel of what is today Harris Manchester College, University of Oxford. A wide circle of friends mourned his death on 11 January 1900 — Oscar Wilde references him in his prose.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40855712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40855712", "title": "Jarava Lal Mehta", "text": "Jarava Lal Mehta\n\nJarava Lal Mehta (1912 – 11 July 1988) was an Indian philosopher, an expert on the philosophy of Martin Heidegger.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22852250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22852250", "title": "Jesus, Interrupted", "text": "Jesus, Interrupted\n\nJesus, Interrupted: Revealing the Hidden Contradictions in the Bible (And Why We Don't Know About Them) is a book by Bart D. Ehrman, a New Testament scholar at University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. This work includes a narrative of Ehrman's own progression in Biblical studies and beliefs, an overview of the issues raised by scholarly analysis of the Bible, details of a selection of findings from such analysis, and an exhortation regarding the importance of coming to understand the Bible more fully.\n\nRegarding the importance of Biblical study, Ehrman says in the preface, \"This kind of information is relevant not only to scholars like me, who devote their lives to serious research, but also to everyone who is interested in the Bible -- whether they personally consider themselves believers or not. In my opinion this really matters. Whether you are a believer -- fundamentalist, evangelical, moderate, liberal -- or a nonbeliever, the Bible is the most significant book in the history of our civilization. Coming to understand what it actually is, and is not, is one of the most important intellectual endeavors that anyone in our society can embark upon.\"\n\nOne particular statement from early on appears to summarize the development of the subject matter that Ehrman attempts to cover in this volume: \"Scholars of the Bible have made significant progress in understanding the Bible over the past two hundred years, building on archaeological discoveries, advances in our knowledge of the ancient Hebrew and Greek languages in which the book of Scripture were originally written, and deep and penetrating historical, literary, and textual analyses.\"\n\n\"Jesus, Interrupted\" became a \"New York Times\" best-seller, joining Ehrman's previous popular work of textual criticism \"Misquoting Jesus\". Critics applauded Ehrman's writing ability.\n\nMichael J. Kruger, Associate Professor of New Testament at Reformed Theological Seminary called it \"a book full of ironies\" and \"intellectual schizophrenia,\" stating that \"it purports to be about unbiased history but rarely presents an opposing viewpoint; ironic that it claims to follow the scholarly consensus but breaks from it so often; ironic that it insists on the historical-critical method but then reads the gospels with a modernist, overly-literal hermeneutic; ironic that it claims no one view of early Christianity could be 'right' (Walter Bauer) but then proceeds to tell us which view of early Christianity is 'right;'\" Another criticism raised, which was also raised over \"Misquoting Jesus\", is that Ehrman implies that the information being presented is new, or groundbreaking. Bishop William H. Willimon says, \"He keeps presenting this stuff as if this is wonderful new knowledge that has been kept from you backward lay people and this is the stuff your preachers don't have the guts to tell, and I have.\"\n\nRich Barlow, of the \"Boston Globe\", writes that \"he repeatedly stresses that historical-critical study need not kill faith. And, honest scholar that he is, he admits that some of his contentions can be challenged.\" Dr. James F. McGrath of Patheos called the book \"a readable overview presenting information about the Bible and early Christianity that ought by now to be common knowledge. The reason it is not probably is due largely to the belief that such critical study of the Bible is antithetical to the Christian faith, and that the appropriate Christian stance is to affirm the Bible’s inerrancy rather than allow one’s view of the Bible and other matters to be shaped by the Bible’s actual contents.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "32571975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32571975", "title": "John Matthew Rispoli", "text": "John Matthew Rispoli\n\nJohn Matthew Rispoli (17 August 1582 – 6 April 1639) was a major Maltese philosopher of great erudition. He was held in high esteem by the Grand Masters of the Knights Hospitaller Order, the Bishops of Malta, the Viceroys of Sicily, cardinals, bishops, inquisitors, and the common people. Perhaps the most eminent Maltese philosopher of the Middle Ages, the various extant writings of his are witness to his philosophical aptitude and dexterity as to his high calibre as a philosopher. These qualities were highly appreciated during his lifetime, in Malta as in France and Italy. He lived a busy life, both as an intellectual and as an administrator. He was professor of philosopher at various institutions of high education, an able preacher, and an official at various posts within the Dominican Order, of which his was a member. He was an avid aficionado of music, and was talented with playing musical instruments. Though the fame of holiness accompanied him in his life, this did not deter the Inquisition from suspecting him of heresy, and keeping him in its dungeons for fourteen months. When he died, he was given an almost state funeral.\n\nRispoli was born in Senglea, Malta, on 17 August 1582, to John Vincent and Catherine. He was christened John Mary. His father was a pilot on one of the galleys of the Knights Hospitaller. This suggests that the family enjoyed a decent financial income. In fact, Rispoli was given a good education from an early age.\n\nAt sixteen years of age, in 1598, Rispoli joined the Dominican Order at the Annunciation Priory of Vittoriosa. He was formally admitted a year later, and given the name John Matthew as a sign of his new religious status. Thereafter, he was sent to Palermo, Sicily, to begin and complete his institutional education at the Dominican \"Studium Generale\" there in philosophy and theology.\n\nRispoli's initial studies ended seven years later, in 1606. Though he returned to Malta to commence his academic and pastoral work, he came under the eye of Alof de Wignacourt, Grand Master to the Knights Hospitaller, who conceded him protection. Most probably, this was due to Rispoli's intellectual capabilities as much as the high esteem in which the Grand Master held his father, whom, as recompense for his thirty-seven years in the service of the Knights Hospitaller, had been elected Donat and Brother in the Order. Whatever the case, the Grand Master personally recommended Rispoli to King Henry IV of France in order to ensue his theological studies at the University of Sorbonne, in Paris. Thus Rispoli left almost immediately for France. This gave the twenty-four-year-old Rispoli an opportunity to upgrade his studies at one of the then most illustrious centres of learning in the world, and show his true colours. In fact, as it happened, this opening gave him great prestige throughout his whole life.\n\nRispoli remained in Paris for the next six years. Throughout his stay there he was known as \"le Jacobin Maltois\", the Maltese Dominican (since in France the Dominicans were known as \"Jacobins\" because their first convent in Paris was built near the church of \"Saint Jacques\"). His outstanding intelligence and erudition can be gauged from the fact that, just over two years into his studies at the Sorbonne, in 1609, the twenty-seven-year-old Rispoli was earmarked to be appointed professor to the seat theology teaching on Lombard's \"Sentences \". Unfortunately, the professorship was eventually awarded to one of the two French candidates who were presented together with Rispoli, this being solely due to their nationality, since Rispoli was clearly \"tanto dotto e più di quelli due\" (by far much brighter than the other two).\n\nDespite this setback which could have changed his life forever, during that same year (1609) Rispoli published a book which impressed his peers and contemporaries. It was entitled \"Status Controversiæ Prædefinitionum et Prædeterminationum cum Libero Arbitrio\" (\"The State of the Question dealing with the Predefinition and the Predestination of Free Will\"). Basically, Rispoli concludes that divine grace fully respects human freedom, and does not tarnish it in any way. This conclusion clearly sides with the position of the Dominican Domingo Bañez against the Jesuit Luis Molina in the famous and very often acrimonious controversy on the intervention of divine grace in relation to free will. The work surely did not go unnoticed for, some two years later, in 1611, it threw him in the limelight. It so happened that, in 1611, the General Chapter of the Dominican Order, gathering some 450 Dominicans from across the world, met at Paris. As was the custom, four of the best scholars were chosen to carry out a public disputation, and Rispoli was the first to be given this great honour. According to one contemporary, Rispoli's disputation, held on May 15, 1611, was attended by the whole academic world of Paris, the Apostolic Nuntio to the King of France (Roberto Ubaldini), the bishops of Montpellier and Orléans together with a great number of ecclesiastics, and of course the Capitular friars, including the Master of the Dominican Order.\n\nRispoli's performance that day left a deep an impression upon his illustrious audience. Eyewitnesses attested that his words were \"docte et gloriose\" (brilliant and persuasive), and that they were received \"cum laude\" (with great praise). The impact was so great that the Apostolic Nuntio there and then requested of the Master of the Order that he grants Rispoli the coveted title of Master of Sacred Theology. He was only twenty-nine years old.\n\nSuch a success catapulted Rispoli to the highest ranks of learned Dominicans. Only a few months after his Paris disputation, in 1612, to show his delight in championing such a first rate scholar, and in respect towards his family, for all its worth Grand Master Alof de Wignacourt appointed him his personal theologian and consultor, and made him a familiar of the Order of Knights Hospitaller.\n\nUpon terminating his studies in Paris in 1612, Rispoli was also on great demand at the many Studia Generali of the Dominican Order. That same year, the General Chapter of Paris appointed him Regent of Studies at the newly established Studium Generale of Messina, Sicily. Then, in 1613, not having yet completed his one-year assignment at Messina, the Provincial Chapter of Sicily, celebrated at Palermo, appointed him Regent at the Studium Generale of Palermo. He stayed at the Sicilian capital city up till 1617.\n\nIn the meantime, in 1615 and 1616, Rispoli went through a hell of an experience. During his Regency at Palermo, he was accused before the Sicilian Inquisition of teaching heretical doctrines. The precise imputations against Rispoli are not known. It appears that the records of the Inquisition at Palermo have not survived the ravishes of time. However, it seems that Rispoli's accusers were numerous and powerful, and that the accusations were quite serious. Expenses for a defence lawyer were shared between Rispoli's religious communities at Palermo and at Vittoriosa.\n\nThe most heart-rending upshot of the incident was that, between May 1615 and July 1616, pending the charges, Rispoli was incarcerated at one of the Inquisition's dungeons for fourteen months. Eventually, his accusations were proved to be unfounded. He was thus declared not guilty, released, and, on July 15, 1616, reinstated to his former offices.\n\nHaving overcome this harrowing ordeal, Rispoli continued to hold the Regency at the Studium Generale of Palermo for another year. In 1617, after an absence of eighteen years, he was back to Malta as superior (of Vicar-General) of the Maltese Dominicans, and as official Visitor for the three Dominican Priories in Malta on behalf of the Sicilian Prior Provincial. During his stay in Malta, for one academic year (1617–18) Rispoli lectured at the \"Studium\" of the Portus Salutis Priory at Valletta, and, during the following academic year (1618–19), at the Dominican \"Studium\" of the Annunciation Priory at Vittoriosa. Here, at Vittoriosa, he was also chosen at Master of Studies, and elected Prior, offices he held up till 1623.\n\nGrand Master Alof de Wignacourt attests to Rispoli's excellent conduct at the time. Already in 1617, when Rispoli returned to Malta, he immediately appointed him as his personal theologian and consultor. Now, two years later, he sent various letters to the Master of the Dominican Order and to the Prior Provincial of Sicily most probably to scotch current rumours about some alleged shortcomings on the part of Rispoli. The Grand Master referred to Rispoli's work and personal demeanour in glowing terms, praising his erudition and exemplary life, his prudence and charity shown in his administrative role, his good sense in the works and benefices with which he endowed the priory, and his high standards of strict observance within his religious community.\n\nWhile at Vittoriosa during the years 1618–20, Rispoli was also appointed Moderator and Consultor to the Inquisition in Malta. How ironical for a man who, barely two years before, has been held captive for more than a year at the dungeons of the Sicilian Inquisition!\n\nThe latter years of Rispoli's life were rather hectic. He frequently had to travel by sea and land between and over Italy, France, Sicily and Malta, occupying a series of temporary abodes.\n\nRispoli left Malta for Italy in 1623 to take up the office of Regent of Studies at the College of San Sisto Vecchio in Rome, Italy. He stayed here for two years, until 1626. During this period, precisely in 1624, he was appointed by the Master of the Order, Seraphim Secchi, as Censor for a particular case dealing with a book, entitled \"Vox Turturis\" (\"A Dove's Voice\"), by the Dominican Dominic Gravina. In 1626, Rispoli was back to Malta for a few months once more as Vicar-General of the Maltese Dominicans, and as official Visitor for the three Dominican Priories in Malta.\n\nIn November of this year he was back in Rome, probably as Socius (or Assistant) to the Master of the Order. At the end of 1626 the Archbishop of Osimo, Italy, Augustine Galamini (who, one might recall, had presided as Master of the Dominican Order over Rispoli's disputation at Paris in May 1611; he had been created Cardinal in August 1611, and Archbishop of Osimo in April 1920), requested that Rispoli serves as his Vicar-General. This appointment probably lasted until 1629.\n\nDuring this period, it appears that Rispoli was not residing continually at Osimo. In 1628 he attended the General Chapter of the Dominican Order at Toulouse, France, as Definitor. The following year he preached at Macerata, Italy. In May 1930, Rispoli was appointed by the Master of the Dominican Order to act as Commissioner to restore regular life at the priory at Messina, Sicily. On April 21, 1630, he was than appointed for the third time Vicar-General of the Maltese Dominicans, and as official Visitor for the three Dominican Priories in Malta. He stayed in Malta until 1632.\n\nIn that year, precisely on May 22, 1632, Rispoli was once more appointed Regent of Studies at Palermo, Sicily. However, he did not take up office until September, apparently because the Sicilian Prior Provincial had found some objection in the appointment He stayed in office until 1936, when he returned to Malta, once more as Vicar-General of the Maltese Dominicans, and as official Visitor for the three Dominican Priories in Malta on behalf of the Sicilian Prior Provincial. During this period, Rispoli also lectured in Holy Scripture and morals at the Cathedral of Mdina, Malta. In 1638, Rispoli was elected Prior of the community at Valletta. This was his last assignment in Malta.\n\nIn March 1639, Rispoli was in Catania, Sicily, where he went to preach Lenten sermons at the Cathedral. It seems that, during the rough 93 km crossing between Malta and Sicily, he caught an ugly chill. Unwilling to rest or take time to convalescent, Rispoli plod through the sermons of the first couple of days. On April 1, after the appointed sermon, he feverishly took to bed unable to rise again. His condition worsened during the night, and died the day after, on April 2, 1639.\n\nHis funeral in Catania was held four days later (April 6). Though technically just a simple friar, Rispoli was given a state funeral in everything but name. Chroniclers were impressed by the multitude of people, both common and dignitaries, who attended his service and interment. He was buried at the Dominican church of St. Catherine, Catania, in a grave reserved for all friars. Unfortunately, in the subsequent years, through war and natural disasters, the church was destroyed, and the burial place lost. Today, only the original plaque which covered the grave still exists.\n\nConsidering the outstanding intellectual and personal qualities of Rispoli, relatively little academic attention has been given to him, and much less to his philosophy. The only genuine biographical research carried out on original sources was done by Daniel Callus in the 1920s. Subsequent scholars heavily relied on his work, adding here and there some further unsubstantial information. Unfortunately, in general the academia ignored Rispoli, perhaps considering him just another withered mediaeval scholastic who, apart from some historical value, had no particular consequence or philosophical relevance to contemporary discussions.\n\nRispoli's works have \"never\" been meticulously or systematically studied. None of them have ever been translated, in part or in whole, into a modern language, let alone freshly read and studied. Indeed, the translation of his works, or even the transliteration of his manuscripts, is riddled with logistical problems. Most of the manuscripts (perhaps excluding the \"Commentaria\" of 1633) are written in a minuscule, mostly indecipherable, handwriting. Furthermore, they are peppered with inscrutable abbreviations. Of course, all of this does not apply to his \"Status Controversiæ\" of 1609, which is his only extant printed text, and which might possibly contain the best of his philosophy and originality.\n\nAs Rispoli's personality continues to attract attention, the eventual study of his philosophy is not a forlorn prospect.\n\nAll of Rispoli's works attest to his Aristotelian-Thomist type of philosophy. Basically, Aristotle and Thomas Aquinas are his main sources, and his writing style is heavily influenced by the method of composition proper to Scholasticism. For this reason, most of his works are organised into 'Books', 'Chapters', 'Questions', and 'Conclusions'. Rispoli's extant writings are sixteen in all. They are of three types: (1) one published book; (2) fourteen endorsed manuscripts; and (3) one authored manuscript.\n\nRispoli published just one book in his lifetime, and that was at the beginning of his academic and intellectual career. Copies of the publication are extremely rare. Two are known to exist, one is at the Dominican Archive at Rabat, Malta, and another at the Bibliothèque Nationale de France in Paris, France.\n\nThese fourteen manuscripts are all held at the Dominican Archive at Rabat, Malta. They were put in writing by a cleric, John Mary Camilleri, who attended Rispoli's lectures, and presumably sanctioned for their accuracy by Rispoli himself (for they were in his possession). Some of the lectures were read at the Dominican \"Studium\" of the Portus Salutis Priory at Valletta, Malta, and others at the Dominican \"Studium\" of the Annunciation Priory at Vittoriosa, Malta. They are the following:\n\nThis manuscript was discovered by Mark Montebello in 1992, and as yet remains the last of Rispoli's work to be located. It is held at the Commune Library of the Municipality of Palermo in Sicily. The special and precious feature of this document is that it is the only manuscript personally penned down by Rispoli himself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27759148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27759148", "title": "Katōmado", "text": "Katōmado\n\nA , also written , is a style of pointed arch or bell-shaped window found in Japanese architecture. It first arrived in Japan from China together with Zen Buddhism, as an element of Zen style architecture, but from the end of the 16th century it started to be used in temples of other Buddhist sects, Shinto shrines, castles, and samurai residences as well. the window initially was not flared, but its design and shape changed over time: the two vertical frames were widened and curves were added at the bottom. The \"kanji\" characters used for its name have also changed through the centuries, from the original \"fire window\" to \"flower head window\".<ref name=\"urlKyoto City Web / Preview Kyoto / Kato-mado Window\"></ref>\n\nThe oldest extant example of \"katōmado\" can be found in Engaku-ji's \"Shariden\" (Relic Hall) in Kamakura, which is thought to closely follow the original style as it was introduced to Japan, with the vertical frames touching the bottom in straight lines. Another well-known example can be found in the room called in the Main Hall at Ishiyama-dera, Shiga prefecture. For this reason, \"katōmado\" are also known as .\n"}
{"id": "15327365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15327365", "title": "Kōgaku-ji", "text": "Kōgaku-ji\n\n, originally Kōgaku-an, is one of fourteen autonomous branches of the Rinzai school of Japanese Zen, founded in 1380 by Bassui Tokushō. The temple is located in southern Yamanashi Prefecture, Japan near Mount Fuji. Due to its great popularity under the leadership of Bassui, the Emperor Go-Kameyama of the late 14th century declared it \"a temple to pray for the nation\" (Head Temples - Kōgaku-ji). The name was changed to Kōgaku-ji in the 16th century through the petitioning of General Takeda Shingen. In 1782 much of the original temple complex was destroyed in a fire, and after it was declared the head temple of the Kogaku-ji branch it was fully restored in 1908. Kōgaku-ji governs eight sub-temples and fifty temple affiliates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8116999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8116999", "title": "Lacuna (manuscripts)", "text": "Lacuna (manuscripts)\n\nA lacuna ( lacunae or lacunas) is a gap in a manuscript, inscription, text, painting, or a musical work. A manuscript, text, or section suffering from gaps is said to be \"lacunose\" or \"lacunulose\". Some books intentionally add lacunas to be filled in by the owner (e.g., \"The _____ played with the _____ in the _____.\"), often as a game or to encourage children to create their own stories.\n\nWeathering, decay, and other damage to old manuscripts or inscriptions are often responsible for lacunae—words, sentences, or whole passages that are missing or illegible. Palimpsests are particularly vulnerable. To reconstruct the original text, the context must be considered. In papyrology and textual criticism this may lead to competing reconstructions and interpretations. Published texts that contain lacunae often mark the section where text is missing with a bracketed ellipsis. For example, \"This sentence contains 20 words, and [...] nouns,\" or, \"Finally, the army arrived at [...] and made camp.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "209920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209920", "title": "Liero", "text": "Liero\n\nLiero is a video game for MS-DOS, first released by Finnish programmer Joosa Riekkinen in 1998. The game has been described as a real-time version of \"Worms\" (a turn-based Artillery game). \"Liero\" is Finnish for earthworm and is pronounced . Inspired itself by the earlier game \"MoleZ\", Liero provided inspiration for the later game \"Soldat\".\n\nIn \"Liero\", two worms fight each other to death for score (or frags) using a choice of five weapons from a total of 40 in a two-dimensional map. Most of the terrain, except for indestructible rocks, may be dug or destroyed by explosions. In addition to the weaponry, each player has a ninja rope which can be used to move faster through the map. This grappling hook-like device substitutes for jetpacks and can even latch onto the enemy worm to drag him closer to his foe.\n\nWhile playing, there are health power-ups to heal your worm. It is also possible to replace one of your five weapons by picking up bonuses. Before playing, you can select certain weapons to be available only in bonuses, in the entire game, or completely disabled.\n\nUnlike most side-scrolling deathmatch games, the weapons in \"Liero\" have infinite ammo. Key factors include the reload rate of each weapon and how fast they shoot, whereas in most others include how much ammo a gun sports and how frequent more ammo for that gun can be found. \"Liero\" depends all on timing and swift maneuverability.\n\nThe gameplay mode can be deathmatch, Game of Tag or Capture the Flag. It can be played by two human players simultaneously in split screen or in a single player mode against the game's artificial intelligence, although the game's popularity is derived mostly from the fast-paced player-vs.-player action it provides.\n\nJoosa Riekkinen developed Liero as DOS game with the first version released in 1998. Liero was inspired by the previous Freeware game MoleZ, and took many weapons and sounds from its precursor. The original Liero's latest version was 1.33, which was released in 1999. However, the author lost the Pascal source code in a hard disk crash, and due to the lack of backup, no new \"classic\" versions have been released since.\n\nDespite this, and with the author's approval, the \"Liero\" community has distributed several altered (or hacked) versions of the game through the LieroCDC, and others.\n\nIn 2009, \"classic\" Liero was officially merged with the OpenLiero project upon the release of Liero 1.34 (not to be confused with the total conversion by that name). The new versions are released by Gliptic, although Joosa Riekkinen endorses them as official. The original Liero data and binary files by Joosa Riekkinen were released available under the WTFPL license.\n\nLiero's last release was version 1.36, release September 3, 2013. This version is compatible with almost any OS but lacks network gaming (unlike some of the remakes).\n\nLiero Xtreme (often called LieroX, Liero Extreme or just LX) is a 2D shooter game. It is an unofficial sequel to \"Liero\", and is the most popular of all the Liero clones. It features online play, fully customizable weapons, levels and characters. Liero Xtreme was created in C++ by Jason 'JasonB' Boettcher, an Australian programmer. With its source release on April 10, 2006, a new project has become available on October 24, 2006, known as OpenLieroX, while the development of the original LieroX project has stopped. At the time of writing (May 6, 2009), OpenLieroX has tripled in code size and has many new features.\n\nThe game is based on a deathmatch setting, where multiple players face off in a closed level. Each player is equipped with five weapons selected out of all the weapons allowed, and with a \"ninja rope\" that allows the player to move in any direction. Players begin with a set amount of lives, and whilst the game records the number of kills, the last man standing is usually considered the winner. Liero Xtreme also allows team deathmatches, which has made it common for players to form clans. OpenLieroX runs on Windows, on MacOSX, on Linux and on FreeBSD.\n\nThe first release announcement of Liero Extreme was made on October 14, 2002. LieroX has become very famous over the time. On February 14, 2006, \"Jason Boettcher\" stopped the LieroX development for good. The last version he released was 0.62b, which had many new features, but suffered from crashes and various errors, and did not catch on within the community which continues to play the 0.56b version. Before leaving the community, he released the source code of the even older version 0.55b under the zlib license. Development of LieroXtreme is now in hands of Karel Petranek and Albert Zeyer, used the source code to create OpenLieroX, which is compatible with the popular 0.56b version, but has multiple new features and bugfixes. Michał Futer took care of the new frontend. Currently the majority of players play OpenLieroX.\n\nAs a customizable game, it allows players and developers to script their own mods. Different mods have different sets of unique weapons, and may also differ in player gravity and movement. The default mod is \"Liero 1.0\", also called \"Classic\", which is roughly equal to the basic setting in original Liero. On top of this, several player-created mods are included in the standard game packs, some of which are more popular than the default setting. Similarly to Liero, the default level is \"Dirt Level\", consisting of diggable terrain with some indestructible rock. The default level is comparatively rarely played compared to more complex player-created levels.\n\nThe game interface allow players to modify factors of the game such as which weapons in a mod are allowed, and how fast they reload and many other parameters which have huge impact on the game play.\n\nNiL (recursive acronym for \"NiL Isn't Liero\") is a clone of Liero, which runs on Linux and Windows and is released under the terms of the GNU General Public License. NiL is not limited to two players, like the original \"Liero\" is. It has support for an infinite number of players over a TCP network. It was met with considerable enthusiasm in the Linux gaming community.\n\nThe project was initiated by Flemming Frandsen in winter 1999 after he had stumbled across Liero, which he liked so much that he decided to reimplement it under Linux. He abandoned the project five months later, due to being too busy for it. NiL was dead until the beginning of 2004 when Christoph Brill, found out about the project and took over as maintainer. Thereafter Daniel Schneidereit joined the project as well, but soon left. Other contributors included Nils Thuerey, Harri Liusvaara, David Hewitt and Phil Howlett.\n\nDevelopment proceeded slowly as the project's source code became almost unmaintainable and NiL was lacking developers. By mid-2005 Alexander Kahl joined development, convinced Christoph to start over and re-think the whole concept of NiL, as the other Liero clone Gusanos already existed at that time. Development seems to have stopped around mid-2006.\n\nOpenLieroX is a remake of classic Liero, built from scratch in a new engine. It adds many features to the game, such as modding support, custom sprites, maps, and weapons, and online and lan play. The game also supports more than two players at once.\n\n\"Liero\" is a versatile game in terms of modification. All of its 40 weapons can be completely replaced with new ones that can be given different images and sound effects from the original set. The images of the worms themselves can be transformed into completely different characters, although their movement animations are less flexible regarding modification. The maps can be given permanent terrain other than rocks alone. Destroyable terrain can also be colored more than simply plain dirt. The AI can be modified to be harder or easier. Nearly the whole game can be converted into something entirely different, except for the main aspect having to do with slaughtering another player/AI.\n\nIn 2006 Liero received a TopDog award from Home of the Underdogs.\n\"OpenLieroX\" has been positively reviewed by multiple gaming news sites. In 2013 Derek Yu's webpage TIGSource reviewed Liero v1.36 favorably.\n\nThe Liero variants NiL, Gusanos, and OpenLieroX were downloaded multiple hundred thousand times from Sourceforge alone between 2001 and 2016.\n\nCalling Liero a \"masterpiece\", Liero was selected for a collection of 100 classical Finnish games, which were presented on the opening of the Finnish Museum of Games in Tampere in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "1064183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1064183", "title": "Marianne Williamson", "text": "Marianne Williamson\n\nMarianne Deborah Williamson (born July 8, 1952) is an American spiritual teacher, author, lecturer, entrepreneur and activist. She has published twelve books, including four \"New York Times\" number one bestsellers. She is the founder of Project Angel Food, a volunteer food delivery program that serves homebound people with AIDS and other life challenging illnesses in the Los Angeles area. She is also the co-founder of The Peace Alliance, a nonprofit grassroots education and advocacy organization supporting peacebuilding projects. Williamson serves on the Board of Directors of the RESULTS organization, which works to end poverty in the United States and around the world. Williamson also produced the Sister Giant Conferences, highlighting the intersection of women and politics.\n\nWilliamson was born in Houston, Texas, in 1952. She is the youngest of three children of Samuel \"Sam\" Williamson, an immigration lawyer, and his homemaker wife, Sophie Ann (Kaplan). After graduating from Houston's Bellaire High School, Williamson put in two years studying theater and philosophy at Pomona College in Claremont, California before dropping out in her Junior year and moving to New York City to pursue a career as a cabaret singer. In 1979, Williamson returned to Houston, where she ran a metaphysical bookstore.\n\nShe has been a guest on television programs such as \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", \"Good Morning America\", and \"Real Time with Bill Maher\". In December 2006, a \"Newsweek\" magazine poll named her one of the fifty most influential baby boomers. Williamson bases her teaching and writing on a set of books called \"A Course in Miracles\", a non-religious self-study program of spiritual psychotherapy, based on universal spiritual themes.\n\nWilliamson’s first book, \"A Return To Love\", was featured on the Oprah Winfrey television show in 1992 and remained on the New York Times bestseller list for 39 weeks. Williamson has published 12 other books, seven of which have been on the New York times bestseller list and four of which have been #1. She has sold more than 3 million copies of her books. In 2018, she published a 20th anniversary revised edition of \"Healing the Soul of America\". Some of Williamson’s publications have been translated from English into other languages such as Spanish.\n\nIn response to the HIV/AIDS crises in the 1980s, Marianne founded the Los Angeles and Manhattan Centers for Living, which served as a refuge and non-medical support for people with HIV/AIDS. There they could connect with a variety of psychological and emotional resources, as well as community of support. She has said of that time that \"there was so much love, because there was nothing to hold onto but love.\"\n\nIn 1989, Marianne launched Project Angel Food to build off the work of the Centers for Living. Originally launched to support HIV/AIDS patients, Project Angel Food expanded its outreach and currently cooks and delivers more than 12,000 meals each week, free of charge, to the homes of men, women and children affected by various life-threatening illnesses. The organization's food and nutrition services, including medically tailored meals and nutritional counseling, help underserved people throughout Los Angeles County who are too sick to shop or cook for themselves. In 2017, Project Angel Food served its 11 millionth meal.\n\nWilliamson has worked on behalf of women’s empowerment issues for decades. In 1993 she published her #1 NYT bestseller, A Woman’s Worth. Publisher’s Weekly said of the book: “Williamson gives sound, empowering advice on relationships, work, love, sex and childrearing.”\n\nIn 2010, Marianne launched a series of Sister Giant conferences, trainings and events to support individuals – particularly women – who want to increase their efficacy as activists and/or run for office. Of the initiative she has said, “I want to be a cheerleader for women who have never even considered running for office or being involved in a campaign, but who in the quietness of their hearts might think, ‘Why not me?’” The events have focused on how to better address many social issues, including: child poverty, low levels of female representation in office, campaign finance reform, high levels of mass incarceration, among other issues.\n\nIn 1997 Williamson published her book \"Healing the Soul of America\" (hardcover originally titled \"The Healing of America\") and began a more robust political engagement. In this book, Williamson laid out plans to “transform the American political consciousness and encourage powerful citizen involvement to heal our society.”\n\nShe wrote in the book, “It is a task of our generation to recreate the American politeia, to awaken from our culture of distraction and re-engage the process of democracy with soulfulness and hope. Yes, we see there are problems in the world. But we believe in a universal force that, when activated by the human heart, has the power to make all things right. Such is the divine authority of love: to renew the heart, renew the nations, and ultimately, renew the world.”\n\nPatricia Holt of the San Francisco Chronicle called it “A huge and wondrous surprise...The Healing of America somehow makes us proud to be Americans, because every hope for democracy seems newly within our grasp.”\n\nA 20th anniversary edition was published in 2018.\n\nIn 2004, Marianne co-founded The Peace Alliance, a non-profit grassroots education and advocacy organization.\n\nFor years Marianne was a member of the Board of Directors and remains a public supporter of RESULTS, an organization aiming to create the political will to end hunger and poverty around the world. It lobbies public officials, does research, and works with the media and the public to addresses the causal issues of poverty. RESULTS has 100 U.S. local chapters and works in six other countries.\n\nStarting in the winter of 2018, Marianne began touring the United States as part of her \"Love America Tour\", discussing how she believes \"a revolution in consciousness paves the way to both personal and national renewal.\" About the tour she shared: “Our own disconnection from the political process, lack of knowledge of how our system operates, lack of understanding of our history, and confusion about many of the issues that confront us now, have led in too many cases to a dangerous emotional disconnection between our country and ourselves.” \n\nWilliamson ran for the seat of California's 33rd congressional district in 2014. On her motivation for running, she has stated: “America has gone off the democratic rails. A toxic brew of shrinking civil liberties and expanded corporate influence are poisoning our democracy.“ Her core message was that “humanitarian values should replace economic values as the ordering principle of our civilization.” \n\nProminent elected and public officials endorsed her campaign, including: Frmr. Governors Jennifer Granholm and Jesse Ventura; Frmr, Congressmembers Dennis Kucinich, and Alan Grayson; and Van Jones, among many others. Alanis Morissette wrote and performed her campaign theme song, entitled \"Today\".\n\nShe campaigned on a broad array of progressive issues, including: greater access to high-quality education and free college; child poverty; economic justice; climate change & renewable energy; campaign finance reform; universal health care; criminal justice reform; ending perpetual war and increasing investments in peacebuilding; women’s reproductive rights; and LGBTQ equality among others.\n\nShe finished fourth out of 16 candidates with 14,335 votes for 13.2% of the vote. Williamson said of the process and its outcome: “This conversation of a politics of conscience, a politics of the heart, is much bigger than any one woman winning a congressional seat. And if that woman loses, the conversation goes on. My losing the congressional seat is small; what’s big is the larger conversation… you impact the ethers, and that energy goes somewhere.”\n\nOn August 2, 2018, The Guardian reported that she was exploring the possibility of a presidential run in 2020 for the Democratic Party.\n\nOn November 15, 2018, Williamson announced that she was forming an exploratory committee for a presidential run.\n\nWilliamson has been a public advocate in the arenas of racial justice and race relations. She is known for leading public apologies for slavery and has encouraged paying reparations for slavery. Marianne has also worked in support of reforming our criminal justice system.\n\nWilliamson identifies as Jewish, and was briefly married. In 1990, Williamson had her only child, India Emma.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25446408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25446408", "title": "Mauricio Suarez", "text": "Mauricio Suarez\n\nMauricio Suárez is a Spanish anglophone philosopher who specialises in philosophy of science and philosophy of physics. He earned his BSc in astrophysics from the University of Edinburgh (1991), and his MSc and PhD in philosophy of science from the London School of Economics (1992 and 1997 respectively). He currently holds the Chair (Cátedra) in Logic and Philosophy of Science at Complutense University of Madrid.\n\nHis previous appointments include:\n\n\nIn addition he was Junior Research Fellow at Wolfson College, Oxford; a visiting scholar at the University of Sydney (2003) and Harvard University (2007, 2009, 2011), and a Visiting Professorial Fellow at the Institute of Philosophy, School of Advanced Study, London University (2012). He has published on models, representation, causal inference, propensities, and the philosophy of quantum mechanics. He edited \"Fictions in Science\" (Routledge, 2009), \"Probabilities, Causes and Propensities in Physics\" (Springer, 2011), and coedited \"EPSA07: Launch of the European Philosophy of Science Association\", vol. I and II (Springer, 2010). He was one of the founders of the European Philosophy of Science Association and served as its Vicepresident from 2009 to 2011. \n\n"}
{"id": "6337134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6337134", "title": "New Sincerity", "text": "New Sincerity\n\nNew Sincerity (closely related to and sometimes described as synonymous with post-postmodernism) is a trend in music, aesthetics, literary fiction, film criticism, poetry, literary criticism and philosophy. It generally describes creative works that expand upon and break away from concepts of postmodernist irony and cynicism, representing a partial return to modernism. Its usage dates back to the mid-1980s; however, it was popularized in the 1990s by American author David Foster Wallace.\n\n\"New Sincerity\" was used as a collective name for a loose group of alternative rock bands, centered in Austin, Texas in the years from about 1985 to 1990, who were perceived as reacting to the ironic outlook of then-prominent music movements like punk rock and new wave. The use of \"New Sincerity\" in connection with these bands began with an off-handed comment by Austin punk rocker/author Jesse Sublett to his friend, local music writer Margaret Moser. According to author Barry Shank, Sublett said: \"All those new sincerity bands, they're crap.\" Sublett (at his own website) states that he was misquoted, and actually told Moser, \"It's all new sincerity to me... It's not my cup of tea.\" In any event, Moser began using the term in print, and it ended up becoming the catch phrase for these bands.\n\nNationally, the most successful \"New Sincerity\" band was The Reivers (originally called Zeitgeist), who released four well-received albums between 1985 and 1991. True Believers, led by Alejandro Escovedo and Jon Dee Graham, also received extensive critical praise and local acclaim in Austin, but the band had difficulty capturing its live sound on recordings, among other problems. Other important \"New Sincerity\" bands included Doctors Mob, Wild Seeds, and Glass Eye. Another significant \"New Sincerity\" figure was the eccentric, critically acclaimed songwriter Daniel Johnston.\n\nDespite extensive critical attention (including national coverage in \"Rolling Stone\" and a 1985 episode of the MTV program \"The Cutting Edge\"), none of the \"New Sincerity\" bands met with much commercial success, and the \"scene\" ended within a few years.\n\nOther music writers have used \"new sincerity\" to describe later performers such as Arcade Fire, Conor Oberst, Cat Power, Devendra Banhart, Joanna Newsom, Neutral Milk Hotel, Sufjan Stevens Idlewild, and Father John Misty, as well as Austin's Okkervil River Leatherbag, and Michael Waller.\n\nCritic Jim Collins introduced the concept of \"new sincerity\" to film criticism in his 1993 essay entitled “Genericity in the 90s: Eclectic Irony and the New Sincerity”. In this essay he contrasts films that treat genre conventions with \"eclectic irony\" and those that treat them seriously, with \"new sincerity\". Collins describes\nthe 'new sincerity' of films like \"Field of Dreams\" (1989), \"Dances With Wolves\" (1990), and \"Hook\" (1991), all of which depend not on hybridization, but on an \"ethnographic\" rewriting of the classic genre film that serves as their inspiration, all attempting, using one strategy or another, to recover a lost \"purity\", which apparently pre-existed even the Golden Age of film genre.\n\nOther critics have suggested \"new sincerity\" as a descriptive term for work by American filmmakers such as Wes Anderson, Paul Thomas Anderson, Todd Louiso, Sofia Coppola, Charlie Kaufman, Zach Braff, and Jared Hess, and filmmakers from other countries such as Michel Gondry, Lars von Trier, the Dogme 95 movement, Aki Kaurismäki, and Pedro Almodóvar. The \"aesthetics of new sincerity\" have also been connected to other art forms including \"reality television, Internet blogs, diary style 'chicklit' literature, [and] personal videos on You-Tube. . . . \"\n\nIn response to the hegemony of metafictional and self-conscious irony in contemporary fiction, writer David Foster Wallace predicted, in his 1993 essay \"E Unibus Pluram: Television and U.S. Fiction\", a new literary movement which would espouse something like the New Sincerity ethos:\"The next real literary “rebels” in this country might well emerge as some weird bunch of anti-rebels, born oglers who dare somehow to back away from ironic watching, who have the childish gall actually to endorse and instantiate single-entendre principles. Who treat of plain old untrendy human troubles and emotions in U.S. life with reverence and conviction. Who eschew self-consciousness and hip fatigue. These anti-rebels would be outdated, of course, before they even started. Dead on the page. Too sincere. Clearly repressed. Backward, quaint, naive, anachronistic. Maybe that’ll be the point. Maybe that’s why they’ll be the next real rebels. Real rebels, as far as I can see, risk disapproval. The old postmodern insurgents risked the gasp and squeal: shock, disgust, outrage, censorship, accusations of socialism, anarchism, nihilism. Today’s risks are different. The new rebels might be artists willing to risk the yawn, the rolled eyes, the cool smile, the nudged ribs, the parody of gifted ironists, the “Oh how banal”. To risk accusations of sentimentality, melodrama. Of overcredulity. Of softness. Of willingness to be suckered by a world of lurkers and starers who fear gaze and ridicule above imprisonment without law. Who knows.\"This was further examined on the blog \"Fiction Advocate by Mike Moats:\"\"The theory is this: \"Infinite Jest\" is Wallace’s attempt to both manifest and dramatize a revolutionary fiction style that he called for in his essay “E Unibus Pluram: Television and U.S. Fiction.” The style is one in which a new sincerity will overturn the ironic detachment that hollowed out contemporary fiction towards the end of the 20th century. Wallace was trying to write an antidote to the cynicism that had pervaded and saddened so much of American culture in his lifetime. He was trying to create an entertainment that would get us talking again.\"In his 2010 essay \"David Foster Wallace and the New Sincerity in American Fiction\", Adam Kelly argues that Wallace's fiction, and that of his generation, is marked by a revival and theoretical reconception of sincerity, challenging the emphasis on authenticity that dominated twentieth-century literature and conceptions of the self. Additionally, numerous authors have been described as contributors to the New Sincerity movement, including Jonathan Franzen, Zadie Smith, Dave Eggers, Stephen Graham Jones, and Michael Chabon.\n\n\"New sincerity\" has also sometimes been used to refer to a philosophical concept deriving from the basic tenets of performatism. It is also seen as one of the key characteristics of metamodernism. Related literature includes Wendy Steiner's \"The Trouble with Beauty\" and Elaine Scarry's \"On Beauty and Being Just\". Related movements may include post-postmodernism, New Puritans, Stuckism, the Kitsch movement and remodernism, as well as the Dogme 95 film movement led by Lars von Trier and others.\n\n\"The New Sincerity\" has been espoused since 2002 by radio host Jesse Thorn of PRI's \"The Sound of Young America\" (now \"Bullseye\"), self-described as \"the public radio program about things that are awesome\". Thorn characterizes New Sincerity as a cultural movement defined by dicta including \"Maximum Fun\" and \"Be More Awesome\". It celebrates outsized celebration of joy, and rejects irony, and particularly ironic appreciation of cultural products. Thorn has promoted this concept on his program and in interviews to the point that a scholarly work on Russian post-Soviet aesthetic theory included mention of Thorn as American popularizer of the term \"new sincerity\". A typical explication of Thorn's concept is this 2006 \"Manifesto for the New Sincerity\":\nWhat is The New Sincerity? Think of it as irony and sincerity combined like Voltron, to form a new movement of astonishing power. Or think of it as the absence of irony and sincerity, where less is (obviously) more. If those strain the brain, just think of Evel Knievel. Let's be frank. There's no way to appreciate Evel Knievel literally. Evel is the kind of man who defies even fiction, because the reality is too over the top. Here is a man in a red-white-and-blue leather jumpsuit, driving some kind of rocket car. A man who achieved fame and fortune jumping over things. Here is a real man who feels at home as Spidey on the cover of a comic book. Simply put, Evel Knievel boggles the mind. But by the same token, he isn't to be taken ironically, either. The fact of the matter is that Evel is, in a word, awesome. . . . Our greeting: a double thumbs-up. Our credo: \"Be More Awesome\". Our lifestyle: \"Maximum Fun\". Throw caution to the wind, friend, and live The New Sincerity.\n\nIn a September 2009 interview, Thorn commented that \"new sincerity\" had begun as \"a silly, philosophical movement that me and some friends made up in college\" and that \"everything that we said was a joke, but at the same time it wasn’t all a joke in the sense that we weren’t being arch or we weren’t being campy. While we were talking about ridiculous, funny things we were sincere about them.\"\n\nThorn's concept of \"new sincerity\" as a social response has gained popularity since his introduction of the term in 2002. Several point to the September 11, 2001 attacks and the subsequent wake of events that created this movement, in which there was a drastic shift in tone. The 1990s were considered a period of artistic works ripe with irony, and the attacks shocked a change in the American culture. Graydon Carter, editor of \"Vanity Fair\", published an editorial a few weeks after the attacks claiming that \"this was the end of the age of irony\". Jonathan D. Fitzgerald for \"The Atlantic\" suggests this new movement could also be attributed to broader periodic shifts that occur in culture.\n\nAs a result of this movement, several cultural works, including many identified above, were considered elements of \"new sincerity\", but this was also seen to be a mannerism adopted by the general public, to show appreciation for cultural works that they happened to enjoy. Andrew Watercutter of \"Wired\" saw this as having being able to enjoy one's guilty pleasures without having to feel guilty about enjoying it, and being able to share that appreciation with others. One such example of a \"new sincerity\" movement is the , generally adult and primarily male fans of the 2010 animated show \"\" which is produced by Hasbro to sell its toys to young girls. These fans have been called \"internet neo-sincerity at its best\", unabashedly enjoying the show and challenging the preconceived gender roles that such a show ordinarily carries.\n\nIn Russia, the term \"new sincerity\" (\"novaya iskrennost\") was used as early as the mid-1980s or early 1990s by dissident poet Dmitry Prigov and critic Mikhail Epstein, as a response to the dominant sense of absurdity in late Soviet and post-Soviet culture. In Epstein's words, \"Postconceptualism, or the New Sincerity, is an experiment in resuscitating \"fallen\", dead languages with a renewed pathos of love, sentimentality and enthusiasm.\n\nThis conception of \"new sincerity\" meant the avoidance of cynicism, but not necessarily of irony. In the words of Professor Alexei Yurchak of the University of California, Berkeley, it \"is a particular brand of irony, which is sympathetic and warm, and allows its authors to remain committed to the ideals that they discuss, while also being somewhat ironic about this commitment\".\n\nNowadays New Sincerity is being contraposed not to Soviet literature, but to postmodernism. Dmitry Vodennikov has been acclaimed as the leader of the new wave of Russian New Sincerity, as was Victor Pelevin.\n\nSince 2005, poets including Reb Livingston, Joseph Massey, Andrew Mister, and Anthony Robinson have collaborated in a blog-driven poetry movement, described by Massey as \"a ‘new sincerity’ brewing in American poetry—a contrast to the cold, irony-laden poetry dominating the journals and magazines and new books of poetry\". Other poets named as associated with this movement, or its tenets, have included David Berman, Catherine Wagner, Dean Young, Matt Hart, Miranda July, Tao Lin, Steve Roggenbuck, D.S. Chapman, Frederick Seidel, Arielle Greenberg, Karyna McGlynn, and Mira Gonzalez.\n"}
{"id": "555566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=555566", "title": "On the Sublime", "text": "On the Sublime\n\nOn the Sublime (Περì Ὕψους Perì Hýpsous) is a Roman-era Greek work of literary criticism dated to the 1st century AD. Its author is unknown, but is conventionally referred to as Longinus (; \"Longĩnos\") or Pseudo-Longinus. It is regarded as a classic work on aesthetics and the effects of good writing. The treatise highlights examples of good and bad writing from the previous millennium, focusing particularly on what may lead to the sublime.\n\nThe author's identity has been debated for centuries. The oldest surviving manuscript, from the 10th century, indicates the original author was named \"Dionysius or Longinus\", which was later misread as \"Dionysius Longinus\". Subsequent interpretations have attributed the work to Dionysius of Halicarnassus (1st century) or Cassius Longinus (c. 213–273 AD), though neither is now widely accepted.\n\nThe author is unknown. In the 10th-century reference manuscript (Parisinus Graecus 2036), the heading reports \"Dionysius or Longinus\", an ascription by the medieval copyist that was misread as \"by Dionysius Longinus.\" When the manuscript was being prepared for printed publication, the work was initially attributed to Cassius Longinus (c. 213–273 AD). Since the correct translation includes the possibility of an author named \"Dionysius\", some have attributed the work to Dionysius of Halicarnassus, a writer of the 1st century AD. There remains the possibility that the work belongs to neither Cassius Longinus nor Dionysius of Halicarnassus, but, rather, some unknown author writing under the Roman Empire, likely in the 1st century. The error does imply that when the codex was written, the trails of the real author were already lost. Neither author can be accepted as the actual writer of the treatise. Dionysius maintained ideas which are absolutely opposite to those written in the treatise; with Longinus, there are problems with chronology.\n\nAmong further names proposed, are Hermagoras (a rhetorician who lived in Rome during the 1st century AD), Aelius Theon (author of a work which had many ideas in common with those of \"On the Sublime\"), and Pompeius Geminus (who was in epistolary conversation with Dionysius).\n\nDionysius of Halicarnassus wrote under Augustus, publishing a number of works. Dionysius is generally dismissed as the potential author of \"On the Sublime\", since the writing officially attributed to Dionysius differs from the work \"On the Sublime\" in style and thought.\n\nCredited with writing a number of literary works, Longinus was disciple of Plotinus, and considered \"the most distinguished scholar of his day.\" He received his education at Alexandria and then went to Athens to teach. He later moved to Asia Minor, where he achieved the position of advisor to Zenobia, the queen of Palmyra. Cassius is a dubious possibility for author of the treatise because he wrote in the 3rd century, and no literature later than the 1st century AD is mentioned (the latest is Cicero, who died in 43 BC) and the work is now usually dated to the early 1st century AD. The work ends with a dissertation on the decay of oratory, a typical subject for the time when authors such as Tacitus, Petronius and Quintilian, who also dealt with the subject, were alive. Cassius was executed by Aurelian, the Roman emperor who conquered Palmyra in 273 AD were on charges of conspiring against the Roman state. This was most likely because of what he had written for Queen Zenobia of Palmyra while she was still in power. Longinus is reported to have written answers for the Queen, which were used in response to Aurelian, the man who would soon rise to power as the Roman emperor.\n\n\"On the Sublime\" is both a treatise on aesthetics and a work of literary criticism. It is written in an epistolary form and the final part, possibly dealing with public speaking, has been lost.\n\nThe treatise is dedicated to Posthumius Terentianus, a cultured Roman and public figure, though little else is known of him. \"On the Sublime\" is a compendium of literary exemplars, with about 50 authors spanning 1,000 years mentioned or quoted. Along with the expected examples from Homer and other figures of Greek culture, Longinus refers to a passage from \"Genesis\", which is quite unusual for the 1st century:\n\nGiven his positive reference to Genesis, Longinus has been assumed to be either a Hellenized Jew or readily familiar with the Jewish culture. As such, Longinus emphasizes that, to be a truly great writer, authors must have \"moral excellence\". In fact, critics speculate that Longinus avoided publication in the ancient world \"either by modesty or by prudential motives\". Moreover, Longinus stresses that transgressive writers are not necessarily shameless fools, even if they take literary risks that seem \"bold, lawless, and original\". As for social subjectivity, Longinus acknowledges that complete liberty promotes spirit and hope; according to Longinus, \"never did a slave become an orator\". On the other hand, too much luxury and wealth leads to a decay in eloquence—eloquence being the goal of the sublime writer.\n\nLonginus critically applauds and condemns certain literary works as examples of good or bad styles of writing. Longinus ultimately promotes an \"elevation of style\" and an essence of \"simplicity\". To quote this famous author, \"the first and most important source of sublimity [is] the power of forming great conceptions.\" The concept of the sublime is generally accepted to refer to a style of writing that elevates itself \"above the ordinary\". Finally, Longinus sets out five sources of sublimity: \"great thoughts, strong emotions, certain figures of thought and speech, noble diction, and dignified word arrangement\".\n\nThe effects of the Sublime are: loss of rationality, an alienation leading to identification with the creative process of the artist and a deep emotion mixed in pleasure and exaltation. An example of sublime (which the author quotes in the work) is a poem by Sappho, the so-called \"Ode to Jealousy\", defined as a \"Sublime ode\". A writer's goal is not so much to express empty feelings, but to arouse emotion in her audience.\n\nIn the treatise, the author asserts that \"the Sublime leads the listeners not to persuasion, but to ecstasy: for what is wonderful always goes together with a sense of dismay, and prevails over what is only convincing or delightful, since persuasion, as a rule, is within everyone's grasp: whereas, the Sublime, giving to speech an invincible power and [an invincible] strength, rises above every listener\".\n\nAccording to this statement, one could think that the sublime, for Longinus, was only a moment of evasion from reality. But on the contrary, he thought that literature could model a soul, and that a soul could pour itself out into a work of art. In this way the treatise becomes not only a text of literary inquiry, but also one of ethical dissertation, since the Sublime becomes the product of a \"great soul\" (, \"megalophrosunēs apēchēma\"). The sources of the Sublime are of two kinds: inborn sources (\"aspiration to vigorous concepts\" and \"strong and enthusiastic passion\") and acquirable sources (rhetorical devices, choice of the right lexicon, and \"dignified and high composition\").\n\nThe author speaks also about the decay of oratory, as arising not only from absence of personal freedom but also from the corruption of morals, which together destroy that high spirit which generates the Sublime. Thus the treatise is clearly centred in the burning controversy which raged in the 1st century AD in Latin literature. If Petronius pointed out excess of rhetoric and the pompous, unnatural techniques of the schools of eloquence as the causes of decay, Tacitus was nearer to Longinus in thinking that the root of this decadence was the establishment of Princedom, or Empire, which, though it brought stability and peace, also gave rise to censorship and brought an end to freedom of speech. Thus oratory became merely an exercise in style.\n\nTranslators have been unable to clearly interpret the text, including the title itself. The \"sublime\" in the title has been translated in various ways, to include senses of elevation and excellent style. The word sublime, argues Rhys Roberts, is misleading, since Longinus' objective broadly concerns \"the essentials of a noble and impressive style\" than anything more narrow and specific. Moreover, about one-third of the treatise is missing; Longinus' segment on similes, for instance, has only a few words remaining. Matters are further complicated in realizing that ancient writers, Longinus' contemporaries, do not quote or mention the treatise in any way.\n\nDespite Longinus' critical acclaim, his writing is far from perfect. Longinus' occasional enthusiasm becomes \"carried away\" and creates some confusion as to the meaning of his text. Furthermore, 18th-century critic Edward Burnaby Greene finds Longinus, at times, to be \"too refined\". Greene also claims that Longinus' focus on hyperbolical descriptions is \"particularly weak, and misapplied.\" Occasionally, Longinus also falls into a sort of \"tediousness\" in treating his subjects. The treatise is also limited in its concentration on spiritual transcendence and lack of focus on the way in which language structures determine the feelings and thoughts of writers. Finally, Longinus' treatise is difficult to explain in an academic setting, given the difficulty of the text and lack of \"practical rules of a teachable kind.\"\n\nDespite its faults, the treatise remains critically successful because of its \"noble tone,\" \"apt precepts,\" \"judicious attitude,\" and \"historical interests\". One of the reasons why it is so unlikely that known ancient critics wrote \"On the Sublime\" is because the treatise is composed so differently from any other literary work. Since Longinus' rhetorical formula avoids dominating his work, the literature remains \"personal and fresh,\" unique in its originality. Longinus rebels against the popular rhetoric of the time by implicitly attacking ancient theory in its focus on a detailed criticism of words, metaphors, and figures. More explicitly, in refusing to judge tropes as entities unto themselves, Longinus promotes the appreciation of literary devices as they relate to passages as a whole. Essentially, Longinus, rare for a critic of his time, focuses more on \"greatness of style\" than \"technical rules.\" Despite his criticism of ancient texts, Longinus remains a \"master of candor and good-nature\". Moreover, the author invents striking images and metaphors, writing almost lyrically at times. In general, Longinus appreciates, and makes use of, simple diction and bold images.\n\nAs far as the language is concerned, the work is certainly a unicum because it is a blend of expressions of the Hellenistic Koine Greek to which are added elevated constructions, technical expressions, metaphors, classic and rare forms which produce a literary pastiche at the borders of linguistic experimentation.\n\nIn reading \"On the Sublime\", critics have determined that the ancient philosopher and writer Plato is a \"great hero\" to Longinus. Not only does Longinus come to Plato's defense, but he also attempts to raise his literary standing in opposition to current criticisms. Another influence on the treatise can be found in Longinus' rhetorical figures, which draw from theories by a 1st-century BC writer, Caecilius of Calacte.\n\n\nGerman film director Werner Herzog claims to have an affinity with the work of Longinus, in a talk entitled \"On the Absolute, the Sublime and Ecstatic Truth\", presented in Milan. Herzog says that he thinks of Longinus as a good friend and considers that Longinus's notions of illumination has a parallel in some moments in his films. He quotes from Longinus: \"For our soul is raised out of nature through the truly sublime, sways with high spirits, and is filled with proud joy, as if itself had created what it hears.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47204671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47204671", "title": "Peter Schöttler", "text": "Peter Schöttler\n\nPeter Schöttler (born 15 January 1950 in Iserlohn) is a German historian working in France and Germany. He was a research director at the Centre national de la recherche scientifique in Paris and teaches now at the Freie Universität Berlin, where he has held an honorary professorship since 2001.\n\nSchöttler was born in North Rhine-Westphalia, but grew up in Brussels, thus becoming bi-lingual. He studied at Ruhr-Universität Bochum, close to his birthplace, and then in Paris at the École Pratique des Hautes Études. In history he was a student of Hans Mommsen in Bochum and Michelle Perrot in Paris; he studied philosophy under Louis Althusser. He has been an interpreter and translator of the work of major 20th century historians, notably Marc Bloch and Lucien Febvre, co-founders of the journal \"Annales\" and the associated Annales School. He has also translated Fernand Braudel and has explored and popularized the work of Lucie Varga, the first woman member of the \"Annales\" group of historians.\n\nAt the 1998 \"Deutscher Historikertag\" Schöttler, Götz Aly and Michael Fahlbusch were involved in the debate concerning the role of German historians during the Third Reich. The trio suggested that Theodor Schieder, Werner Conze and Karl-Dietrich Erdmann were complicit with the Nazi regime rather than inwardly withdrawn intellectually through inner emigration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "612228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=612228", "title": "Philosophy of sex", "text": "Philosophy of sex\n\nPhilosophy of sex is an aspect of applied philosophy involved with the study of sex and love. It includes both ethics of phenomena such as prostitution, rape, sexual harassment, sexual identity, the age of consent, homosexuality, and conceptual analysis of concepts such as \"what is sex?\" It also includes questions of sexuality and sexual identity and the ontological status of gender. Leading contemporary philosophers of sex include Alan Soble and Judith Butler.\n\nContemporary philosophy of sex is sometimes informed by Western feminism. Issues raised by feminists regarding gender differences, sexual politics, and the nature of sexual identity are important questions in the philosophy of sex.\n\n\nThroughout much of the history of Western philosophy, questions of sex and sexuality have been considered only within the general subject of ethics. There have, however, been deviations from this pattern out of which emerge a tradition of speaking of sexual issues in their own right.\n\nThe \"Society for the Philosophy of Sex and Love\" is a professional group within the membership of the American Philosophical Association.\n\nMoral evaluations of sexual activity are determined by judgments on the nature of the sexual impulse. In this light, philosophies fall into two camps:\n\nA negative understanding of sexuality, such as from Immanuel Kant, believes that sexuality undermines values, and challenges our moral treatment of other persons.\nSex, says Kant, \"makes of the loved person an Object of appetite\".\nIn this understanding, sex is often advised only for the purpose of procreation. Sometimes sexual celibacy is considered to lead to the best, or most moral life.\n\nA positive understanding of sexuality – such as from Russell Vannoy, Irving Singer – sees sexual activity as pleasing the self and the other at the same time.\n\nThomas Nagel proposes that only sexual interactions with mutual sexual arousal are natural to human sexuality. Perverted sexual encounters or events would be those in which this reciprocal arousal is absent, and in which a person remains fully a subject of the sexual experience or fully an object.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27534729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27534729", "title": "Positivistic animism", "text": "Positivistic animism\n\nPositivistic animism hypothesis states that some animistic memes belonging to determined culture and natural environment can be confirmed by positivism. These memes are therefore called positivistic animistic memes and can easily evolve towards Evolutionary Stable Strategy within the structure of simple and new memeplexes, if dissociated from the original memeplex.\n\nThe distinction between positivistic animistic memes and non positivistic animistic memes can only be done through scientific experimentation.\n\nThe main hypothesis for this theory is that there is the possibility that local animistic cultures carry memes that have positivistic properties.\n\nFollowing this hypothesis, the following premises for the postulated theory are:\n\nIn a determined culture, local animism has memes that replicate knowledge gathered through trial and error over millennia – i.e. positivistic memes – these memes are by definition scientifically acquired and provable for that determined environment.\n\nModern science can study animistic practices and replicable components (memes) of a determined culture – it is possible to extricate animistic memes, and distinguish which ones are possible to prove scientifically, thus are positivistic memes for that specific local environment and which memes are purely derived from mysticism or have been carried in from different environments.\n\nAs conclusion, by extricate animistic memes from local memeplexes and disseminate the positivistic animistic memes associated to different and simple memeplexes, it is possible to act as an evolutionary force over the memes and memeplex.\n\nIf the theory is right, the dissemination of Positivistic Animism Memes will be done at minimum cost and effort and will facilitate the assimilation of memeplexes that are exterior to the culture as there is cultural ownership and identity over some memes that are part of the new memeplex. This theory provides a way of replacing obsolete memeplexes that hinder de development of society in the new globalised world. However, and because it requires the thorough and systematic study of culture and its memeplexes, will always store the information that these obsolete memeplexes contain.\n\nPossible applications of positivistic animism:\n\nIf proven true, this theory can have applications in a wide range of natural and social sciences, and can be an interface between a scientific elite and illiterate populations. This theory can also prevent the loss of ancient positivistic knowledge and preserve live cultures in face of globalization.\n\nFor example, the application of this theory can foster a strong cultural sense that is likely to be both environmental sensitive and sustainably reproduced.\n\nAs most indigenous cultures nowadays are under enormous pressure of globalization, the Positivistic Animist Theory can give a way to preserve positivistic cultural elements alive in cultures. The study and recording of all components of culture, positivistic or not, is nevertheless of the utmost importance, as the positivistic properties are specific for a time and a place.\n\nThis theory is still in its phase of inception and has not being proved. The first step to test this theory is the identification of local animistic memes in a determined culture, and test if these memes are positivistic or not. The memes found positivistic can be then disseminated through communication channels and its acceptance in local culture should be tracked.\n"}
{"id": "43042278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43042278", "title": "Prabhu Linga Leelai", "text": "Prabhu Linga Leelai\n\nThe Prabhu Linga Leelai Venpaas in Tamil written by Siva Prakasar also called as 'Siva anuputhi selvar, 'Karpanai Kalangiyam', 'Thurai mangalam Sivaprakasar'. He compiled more than thirty original works and few more translation works from Kannada and Sanskrit.\n\nThose poems were compiled as Venpa, Viruthan, Kalithurai, Agaval… It's a translation work. Prabhulinga Leelai, the work that the following translation comes from, chronicles the life and deeds of Allama Prabhu, a 12th-century Lingayata saint and teacher. There are two traditions regarding AllamaPrabhu's life. One sees himas a manifestaion of Siva Himself who came to the world to teach the path of freedom.\n\n\"Prabhu Linga Leelai\" is a 15th-century Lingayata work, written in Kannada and comprising 1,111 verses. It was originally composed when a Lingayata scholar,\nChamarasa, was challenged to produce a work that was greater than either the\nMahabharata or the Ramayana by vaishnava courtiers headed by arch rival Kumaravyasa. Shortly afterwards the troubled Chamarasa had a divine dream\nin which Virabhadra, the son of Siva, asked him\nto write a long poem on the Lingayata saints of the 12th century. Chamarasa subsequently composed the entire Prabhulinga Leelai\nin eleven days. The book is based on the life and spiritual experiences of Allama Prabhu and his coequal Sharanas. The poet laureate presented it at the court of his king Deva Raya II where it was approved\nby both the monarch and the vaishnava scholars who had challenged him.\n\nSiva prakasar, Shaiva Siddhanta.\na Sage, Tamil Poet lived around at the end of the 17th century. This great work was translated into Tamil by one Thuraimangalam Sivaprakasa Swamigal, in the 17th century. The author of the Tamil version, Siva prakasa Swamigal, had a strong connection with Tiruvannamalai. His father, Kumaraswami Desikar, used to come to Arunachala from Kanchipuram every year for the Deepam\nfestival. It is said that his three sons, of whomSivaprakasa Swamigal was the eldest, were all born by the grace of\nArunachala. When Sivaprakasa Swamigal grew up, he had a Guru in Tiruvannamalai —also called Sivaprakasa —whom he visited regularly. On his first Pradakshina of Arunachala, Sivaprakasa Swamigal composed Sonasaila Malai, a hundred-verse poem in praise of Arunachala.\n\nSivaprakasa Swamigal died when he was thirty-two.\n\nBhagavan Ramana has mentioned about this work on many occasions and these are recorded in Talks, At the Feet of Bhagavan, and Crumbs from His Table. Two of its verses are the source of Verse 20, of Sad Darsanam, Supplement. Bhagavan's compositions (Ulladu Narpadu Anubandham verse 20), and the chapter entitled 'Gorakkar Gati', part of which is translated here, was narrated by Bhagavan in Crumbs from his Table (pp. 36–39). A synopsis of the ma in story of this chapter —\nthe meeting between AllamaPrabhu and Gorakkar —also appears in\nTalks with Sri Ramana Maharshi, Talk 334\n\nGorakkar is a saint whose samadhi is situated 6 km from Nagapattinam of Tamil Nadu and can be accessed by buses traversing from Nagapattinam to Vedaranyam. People throng the site during Amavasya and Poornima. It is informed that the transformation of DNA of human soul happens by the physical presence of oneself there in the Samadhi by the Hindu Saints. One can feel the bliss on reaching the Sea around and near the Samadhi, which cannot be explained in words as the Messengers like Gorakkar who bring the presence of God to the world and they are beyond Nama Swaroopa beyond words and pictures that can be grasped by common mind.\n\nSivaprakasa Swamigal follows this tradition in Prabhulinga Leelai. The other version of his life, which is found in a fifteenth-century biography by Harihara, describes a more normal upbringing in the family of a temple drummer. Whatever the truth of the matter, there is general agreement that he was one of the most eminent saints, poets and Gurus of the Lingayata school. More details of\nhis life will be given in the notes to the verses.\n\nEach Venpa of 'Prabhu Linga Leelai' is generally named by the first few words of the poem. These are given first and a translation into verse given then:-\n\nSome verses have been translated by Robert Butler, T.V. Venkatasubramanian and David Godman and an article appears in Advent 2005 issue of Mountain Path\n"}
{"id": "28365344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28365344", "title": "Roger Crisp", "text": "Roger Crisp\n\nRoger Stephen Crisp (born 23 March 1961) is fellow and tutor in philosophy at St. Anne’s College, Oxford. He holds the university posts of Professor of Moral Philosophy and Uehiro Fellow and Tutor in Philosophy. His work falls principally within the field of ethics, in particular metaethics, normative ethics, and applied ethics. In addition, he is chairman of the Management Committee of the Oxford Uehiro Centre for Practical Ethics.\n\nOriginally from Brentwood, Essex, Crisp began his higher education at St. Anne’s College, Oxford in 1979, where he read Literae Humaniores. He was amongst the first male cohort to study at this previously all-female college. He was taught by, amongst others, Margaret Howatson, Gabriele Taylor, Iris Murdoch, and Peter Derow. In 1983 he commenced the B.Phil., and from 1985 until 1988 he worked on his D.Phil., writing his thesis on utilitarianism.\n\nIn 1986 Crisp began his first academic post, as a junior lecturer in philosophy at Magdalen College, Oxford; he returned to St. Anne’s for two years beginning 1987 as a lecturer in philosophy, before taking up a lecturing post at Hertford College, Oxford in 1988-1989. 1989-1991 saw Crisp move to University College, Oxford, as a British Academy Research Fellow and Honorary Junior Research Fellow. Finally, Crisp returned once more to St. Anne’s in 1991, to take up a permanent post as Fellow and Tutor in Philosophy, succeeding Gabriele Taylor. For the first time in his career, Crisp temporarily left Oxford and spent the academic year 2010-2011 at Boston University to explore his interest in the moral philosophy of Henry Sidgwick.\n\nArguably Crisp’s most significant work to date has been \"Reasons and the Good\" (Clarendon Press, 2006), in which he advances some novel approaches to the oldest questions in ethics. The central claim of this work is that a fundamental issue in normative ethics is what ultimate reasons might underlie our actions; Crisp argues that the best exposition of such reasons will not employ moral concepts. So far, \"Reasons and the Good\" has generally been very well received.\n\nCrisp is currently editing an Oxford Handbook on the History of Ethics. Other major works include a translation of Aristotle’s \"Nicomachean Ethics\", and the \"Routledge Guidebook to Mill on Utilitarianism\".\n\nCrisp is married with two daughters. Aside from his work, his interests include bluegrass guitar and wine tasting.\n\nThis is a selection of Crisp's recent publications. For an exhaustive list download the PDF file on his page on the Oxford University Philosophy Faculty website.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58895108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58895108", "title": "Roger T. Ames", "text": "Roger T. Ames\n\nRoger T. Ames (born 12 December 1947) is a Canadian-born philosopher, translator, and author. He is Humanities Chair Professor at Peking University in Beijing, China, Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa, and a Berggruen Fellow. He has made significant contributions to the study of Chinese and comparative philosophy, in which he emphasizes the importance of understanding Chinese philosophy on its own terms rather than through the lens of Western philosophy.\n\nRoger Ames was born in Toronto, Canada, and raised in England and Vancouver. He is married with two sons. He received his bachelorʻs degree from the University of British Columbia (UBC) where he studied philosophy and Chinese language. While attending UBC, he took the opportunity to spend one academic year at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, his first exposure to China. After graduating from UBC, he began his graduate work at National Taiwan University (1970–1972), where he studied with Yang Youwei (楊有維). He returned to UBC to finish his master's degree (1973), then he spent two years living in Japan. In 1975, he began his Ph.D. at the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) at the University of London, where he studied under the tutelage of D. C. Lau. He completed his Ph.D. thesis in 1978, titled \"The \"Chu Shu\" chapter of the Huai-Nan-Tzu: The sources and orientation of its political thought\". That same year, he accepted an offer for an assistant professorship from the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa, and he remained there until he retired in 2016. He is currently Humanities Chair Professor at Peking University in Beijing, China.\n\nWhile a member of the faculty at the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa (UHM), Ames joined Eliot Deutsch, already a prominent academic and advocate of Chinese and comparative philosophy, and others to continue the tradition begun by Charles A. Moore and Wing-Tsit Chan to establish UHM as the hub for non-Western and comparative philosophy and intellectual exchange in the United States. Ames became the editor of the academic journal \"Philosophy East and West\" in 1987, the editor of the book review publication \"China Review International\", the editor and co-editor (with David L. Hall) of the \"Chinese Philosophy and Culture\" Series as well as (with Paul J. D'Ambrosio) the \"Translating China\" series with State University of New York Press. He also served as Director for the Center for Chinese Studies at UHM and Co-Director (with Peter D. Hershock) for the Asian Studies Development Program (ASDP), and as Director and Co-Director of the East-West Philosophers' Conferences, the largest gathering of non-Western and comparative philosophers, with as many as 300 presenters, held in Honolulu, Hawaiʻi, in 1995, 2000, 2005, 2011, and 2016.\n\nAmes has been a visiting professor at National University of Singapore and the Chinese University of Hong Kong, and a Fulbright Professor at Wuhan University and Peking University. He has received many awards, including the Confucian Culture Award at the 2013 World Congress of Confucianism in Beijing, and the Huilin Culture Award from Beijing Normal University in China in 2016.\n\nAmes has written around 100 scholarly articles, published in prominent academic journals in the United States and abroad.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38025273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38025273", "title": "Role-taking theory", "text": "Role-taking theory\n\nRole-taking theory, or social perspective taking, is the sociological theory that one of the most important factors in facilitating social cognition in children is the growing ability to understand others’ feelings and perspectives, an ability that emerges as a result of general cognitive growth. Part of this process requires that children come to realize that others’ views may differ from their own. Role-taking ability involves understanding the cognitive and affective (i.e. relating to moods, emotions, and attitudes) aspects of another person's point of view and differs from perceptual perspective taking, which is the ability to recognize another person's visual point of view of the environment. Furthermore, albeit some mixed evidence on the issue, role taking and perceptual perspective taking seem to be functionally and developmentally independent of each other.\n\nRobert Selman is noted for emphasizing the importance of this theory within the field of cognitive development. He argues that a matured role taking ability allows us to better appreciate how our actions will affect others, and if we fail to develop the ability to role take, we will be forced to erroneously judge that others are behaving solely as a result of external factors. One of Selman's principal additions to the theory has been an empirically supported developmental theory of role taking ability.\n\nSocial cognitive research on children's thoughts about others’ perspectives, feelings, and behaviors has emerged as one of the largest areas of research in the field. Role taking theory can provide a theoretical foundation upon which this research can rest and be guided by and has relations and applications to numerous other theories and topics.\n\nSelman developed his developmental theory of role taking ability based on four sources. The first is the work of Feffer and Feffer and Gourevitch, which related role taking ability to Piaget's theory of social decentering and developed a projective test to assess children's ability to decenter as they mature. The second is the research of Flavell, which studied children's growing abilities to judge other people's conceptual and perceptual perspectives. The third is the developmental ideas of differentiation, whereupon one learns to distinguish his/her perspective from the perspectives of others, and integration, the ability to relate one's perspective to the perspectives of others. The final source of influence comes from Selman's own previous research where he assessed children's ability to describe the different perspectives of characters in a story.\n\nOne example of Selman's stories is that of Holly and her father. Children are told about Holly, an avid 8-year-old tree climber. One day, Holly falls off a tree, but does not hurt herself. Holly's father sees this and makes Holly promise that she will stop climbing trees, and Holly promises. Later, however, Holly and her friends meet Shawn, a boy whose kitten is stuck in a tree. Holly is the only one amongst her friends who can climb trees well enough to save Shawn's kitten, who may fall at any moment, but she remembers the promise she made with her father. Selman then goes on to ask children about the perspectives of Holly and her father, and each stage is associated with typical responses.\n\nLevel 0: Egocentric Role Taking (ages 3–6, roughly)\n\nThis stage is characterized by two lacking abilities. The first is the failure to distinguish perspectives (differentiation). More specifically, the child is unable to distinguish between his perspective, including his perspective on why a social action occurred, and that of others. [1] The second ability the child lacks is relating perspectives (integration).\n\nIn the Holly dilemma, children tend to respond that Holly will save the kitten and that the father will not mind Holly's disobedience because he will be happy and he likes kittens. In actuality, the child is displaying his/her inability to separate his/her liking for kittens from the perspectives of Holly and her father.\n\nLevel 1: Subjective role taking (ages 6–8, roughly) \n\nChildren now recognize that they and others in a situation may have different information available to them, and thus may differ in their views. In other words, children have matured in differentiation. The child still significantly lacks integration ability, however: he/she cannot understand that his views are influenced by the views of others, and vice versa, ad infinitum. In addition, the child believes that the sole reason for differing social perspectives is because of different information, and nothing else.\n\nIn the Holly dilemma, when asked if the father would be angry if he found out that Holly climbed the tree again, children might respond, “If he didn’t know why she climbed the tree, he would be angry. But if he knew why she did it, he would realize that she had a good reason,” not recognizing that the father may still be angry, regardless of her wanting to save the kitten, because of his own values, such as his concern for his daughter's safety.\n\nLevel 2: Self-reflective role taking (ages 8–10, roughly) \n\nThe child's differentiation ability matures at this age enough so that he/she understands that people can also differ in their social perspectives because of their particularly held and differing values and set of purposes. In turn, the child is able to better put him/herself in the position of another person. In terms of integration, the child can now understand that others think about his/her point of view too. This allows the child to predict how the other person might react to the child's behaviour. What is still lacking, however, is for the child to be able to consider another person's point of view and another person's point of view of the child simultaneously.\n\nIn the Holly dilemma, when children are asked if Holly will climb the tree, they will typically respond, “Yes. She knows that her father will understand why she did it.” This indicates the child is considering the father's perspective in light of Holly's perspective; however, when asked if the father would want Holly to climb the tree, children typically respond that he would not. This shows that the child is solely considering the father's point of view and his worry for Holly's safety.\n\nLevel 3: Mutual role taking (ages 10–12, roughly) \n\nIn this stage, the child can now differentiate his/her own perspective from the viewpoint likely for the average member of the group. In addition, the child can take the view of a detached third-person and view a situation from that perspective. In terms of integration, the child can now simultaneously consider his/her view of others and others’ view of the child, and the consequences of this feedback loop of perspectives in terms of behaviour and cognition.\n\nIn describing the result of the Holly dilemma, the child may take the perceptive of a detached third party, responding that “Holly wanted to get the kitten because she likes kittens, but she knew that she wasn’t supposed to climb trees. Holly’s father knew that Holly had been told not to climb trees, but he couldn’t have known about [the kitten].” \n\nLevel 4: Societal role taking (ages 12–15+, roughly) \n\nThe adolescent now considers others’ perspectives with reference to the social environment and culture the other person comes from, assuming that the other person will believe and act in accord to their society's norms and values.\n\nWhen asked if Holly deserves to be punished for her transgression, adolescents typically respond that Holly should not as her father should understand that we need to humanely treat animals.\n\nThree studies have been conducted to assess Selman's theory, and all three have shown support for his developmental outline of role taking ability progression. Selman conducted the first study of his own theory using 60 middle-class children from ages 4 to 6. In this experiment, the children were asked to predict and explain their predictions about another child's behaviour in a certain situation. The child participants were given situational information not available to the child they were making behavioural and cognitive predictions about. Results implied a stage progression of role taking ability as a function of age, as theorized by Selman.\n\nIn a second assessment of the theory, Selman and Byrne interviewed 40 children, ages 4, 6, 8, and 10, on two socio-moral dilemmas. Children were required to discuss the perspectives of different characters in each dilemma, and results again showed that role taking ability progressed through stages as a function of age.\n\nThe third study assessing Selman's theory was a 5-year longitudinal study of 41 male children on their role taking ability. Results showed that 40 of the 41 children interviewed followed the stages as outlined by Selman and none skipped over a stage.\n\nJean Piaget stressed the importance of play in children, especially play that involves role taking. He believed that role taking play in children promotes a more mature social understanding by teaching children to take on the roles of others, allowing them to understand that different people can have differing perspectives. In addition, Piaget argued that good solutions to interpersonal conflicts involve compromise which arises out of our ability to consider the points of view of others.\nTwo of Piaget's fundamental concepts have primarily influenced role taking theory. The first is egocentrism, the mode of thinking that characterizes preoperational thinking, which is the child's failure to consider the world from other points of view. The second is decentration, the mode of thinking that characterizes operational thinking, which is the child's growing ability to perceive the world with more than one perspective in mind. In Piagetian theory, these concepts were used to describe solely cognitive development, but they have been applied in role taking theory to the social domain.\n\nEvidence that Piaget's cognitive theories can be applied to the interpersonal aspects of role taking theory comes from two sources. The first is empirical evidence that children's ability to role take is correlated to their IQ and performance on Piagetian tests. Secondly, the two theories have been conceptually linked in that Selman's role taking stages correspond to Piaget's cognitive development stages, where preoperational children are at level 1 or 2, concrete operators are at level 3 or 4, and formal operators are at level 4 or 5 of Selman's stages. Given this relation, Feffer and Feffer and Gourevitch have argued that social role taking is an extension of decentering in the social sphere. Selman has argued this same point, also noting that the growth of role taking ability is brought on by the child's decreased egocentrism as he/she ages.\n\nLawrence Kohlberg argued that higher moral development requires role taking ability. For instance, Kohlberg's conventional level of morality (between ages 9 and 13, roughly), involves moral stereotyping, empathy-based morality, alertness to and behaviour guided by predicted evaluations by others, and identifying with authority, all of which require role taking.\n\nSelman tested 60 children, ages 8 to 10, on Kohlberg's moral-judgment measure and two role taking tasks. He found that the development of role taking, within this age range, related to the progression into Kohlberg's conventional moral stage. A retest a year later confirmed Kohlberg's argument, and in general, it was shown that higher moral development at the conventional stage requires children's achieved ability at this age to reciprocally deal with their own and others’ perspectives.\nMason and Gibbs found that moral judgment development, as measured by Kohlberg's theory, consistently related to role taking opportunities experienced after childhood in adolescence and adulthood. This finding supported Kohlberg's view that moral progress beyond his third stage necessitates contact with other perspectives, namely those of entire cultures or political groups, which individuals are likely to encounter as they become adolescents and adults and thus meet many different people in school and the workplace.\n\nKohlberg and Piaget both emphasized that role taking ability facilitates moral development. Kohlberg argued that cognitive and role taking development are required but not sufficient for moral development. In turn, he maintained that Piaget's cognitive developmental stages underlie Selman's role taking stages, which are subsequently fundamental to his own moral developmental stages. This predicts that cognition develops first, followed by the corresponding role taking stage, and finally the corresponding moral stage, and never the other way around.\n\nConceptually, the three processes have been tied together by Walker. His reasoning is that cognitive development involves the progressive understanding of the environment as it is. Role taking is a step upon this, which is the recognition that people each have their own subjective interpretation of the environment, including how they think about and behave towards other people. Moral development, the final step, is the grasping of how people should think and behave towards one another.\n\nEvidence in support of this view comes first from three reviews which showed moderate correlations between Selman's role taking theory, Piaget's cognitive developmental stages, and Kohlberg's moral developmental stages. More evidence comes from Walker and Richards's finding that moral development to Kohlberg's stage 4 occurred only for those who already had early basic formal operations according to Piaget's developmental theory, and not for those in an earlier stage. Similarly, Paolitto's attempts to stimulate moral development worked only for subjects who already attained the corresponding role taking stage. Previous research has also shown that short role taking treatments, such as exposing subjects to the role taking reasoning of subjects in one stage higher, can lead to moral development. In more general demonstrations of this argument, Faust and Arbuthnot and other researchers have shown that moral development is most probable for subjects with higher cognitive development.\n\nIn a direct investigation of Kohlberg's necessary but not sufficient argument, Walker tested the hypothesis that only children who had attained both beginning formal operations and role taking stage 3 could progress to Kohlberg's moral stage 3. 146 grade 4-7 children participated in this study, and the results strongly supported the hypothesis, given that only children who had the beginning formal substage of cognitive development and role taking stage 3 progressed to moral stage 3. Further support came from the study's demonstration that a short role playing treatment stimulated progress in moral reasoning in a 6-week follow-up retest. Krebs and Gilmore also directly tested Kohlberg's necessary but not sufficient argument of moral development in 51 children, ages 5–14, for the first three stages of cognitive, role taking, and moral development. Results generally supported Kohlberg's view, but not as strongly, given that it was only demonstrated that cognitive development is a prerequisite for role taking development, and not for moral development. Based on these results, researchers have suggested that moral education programs underlain by Kohlberg's theory must first ensure that the prerequisite cognitive and role taking abilities have developed.\n\nRole taking ability and prosocial behaviours and feelings have been argued to be related. Evidence for this claim has been found from many sources. Underwood and Moore have found that perceptual, affective, and cognitive perspective taking are positively correlated with prosocial behaviour. Children trained to improve their role taking ability subsequently become more generous, more cooperative, and more apprehensive to the needs of others in comparison to children who received no role taking training. Research has also shown that people who are good at role taking have greater ability to sympathize with others. Overall, the picture is clear: prosocial behaviour is related to role taking ability development and social deviance is linked to egocentrism.\n\nTo study one reason for the link between role taking ability and prosociality, grade 2 children found to be either high or low in role taking were instructed to teach two kindergartners on an arts and crafts task. 16 measures of prosocial behaviour were scored, and high and low role takers diverged on 8 of the measures, including several helping measures, providing options, and social problem solving. Analysis of the results showed that low role takers helped less than high role takers not because of a lack of wanting to help, but because of their poorer ability in interpreting social cues indicating the need for help. In other words, low role takers tended to only be able to recognize problems when they were made plainly obvious.\n\nRole taking has also been related to empathy. Batson had participants listen to an interview of a woman going through hardship. He then instructed participants to imagine how she feels, or, to imagine how they would feel in her situation, and found that both conditions produced feelings of empathy. Schoenrade has found the same result, where imagining how a person in distress feels or how one would feel in that person's situation produces feelings of empathy.\n\nFinally, many theorists, including Mead, Piaget, Asch, Heider, Deutsch, Madsen, and Kohlberg have theorized a relationship between cooperation and role taking ability. In one study, children's predisposition to cooperate was shown to strongly correlate with their affective role taking ability. Other researchers have also shown an indirect relationship between cooperation and role taking capacity.\n\nA child's ability to function in social relationships has been found to depend partially on his/her role-taking ability. For instance, researchers found that children poor in role-taking ability had greater difficulty in forming and sustaining social relationships, as well as receiving lower peer nominations. Davis found that role taking ability was positively correlated with social understanding. In general, progress in role-taking ability has shown to be beneficial for one's personal and interpersonal life.\n\nBetter functioning in the interpersonal domain is particularly shown in the relation between role-taking ability and social problem solving ability. Role playing has been shown to improve male teenagers’ handling of social problem tasks. Gehlbach found a similar supporting result, demonstrating that adolescents with better role taking abilities had superior ability in conflict resolution. Many other researchers have also found that role taking ability development positively affects interpersonal problem solving skills. Additionally, role taking can promote better social functioning in the interpersonal domain through smoothening social interactions by improving behavioural mimicking ability.\n\nTraining children on role taking ability can improve interpersonal functioning as well. In one study, preschoolers were made to role play interpersonal conflicts using puppets. Their task at the end was to discuss alternative solutions to the problems and how each solution would affect each character. Over the 10 weeks that the preschoolers participated in this role playing, their solutions became less aggressive and their classroom adjustment became better. Moreover, the use of role reversal in interpersonal problem situations has been found to stimulate cooperation, help participants better understand each other and each other's arguments and position, elicit new interpretations of the situation, change attitudes about the problem, and improve perceptions about the other person's efforts at solving the issue, willingness to compromise and cooperate, and trustworthiness. As a result of this research, it has been suggested that one way to improve cooperative skills is to improve affective role taking abilities. \nRole taking can also work to decrease prejudice and stereotyping. Importantly, the decrease in prejudice and stereotyping occurs for both the target individual and the target's group. In addition, role taking ability has been demonstrated to decrease social aggression.\n\nChildren with ADHD struggle in their social environments, but the social-cognitive reasons for this are unknown. Several studies have indicated a difference between children with and without ADHD on their role taking ability, wherein children with ADHD have lower role taking ability, lower role taking use, and slower role taking development than children without ADHD. Given these results, it has been suggested that children with ADHD be trained on role taking to improve their social skills, including their often comorbid oppositional and conduct problems.\n\nThe relationship between childhood and adolescent delinquency and role taking is considerable. Burack found that maltreated children and adolescents with behavioural problems exhibited egocentrism at higher levels than non-maltreated children and adolescents who had progressed faster and more expectedly in their role taking development. Chandler found that chronically delinquent boys exhibited lower role taking abilities so much so that their role taking ability was comparable to the role taking ability scores of non-delinquent children nearly half their age. In turn, one-third of the delinquent boys in this study were assigned to a treatment program designed to improve role taking skills. Post-treatment measures demonstrated that the program successfully induced role taking ability progress in this group, and an 18-month follow-up assessment found a nearly 50% decrease in delinquent behaviours following these progresses in role taking skills. The same has been found for delinquent girls. Chalmers and Townsend trained delinquent girls, ages 10–16, on role taking skills over 15 sessions, following which the girls demonstrated improved understanding of interpersonal situations and problems, greater empathy, more acceptance of individual differences, and exhibited more prosociality in the classroom. The overall picture, then, is that role taking training can help delinquent youth and youth with conduct disorders as they lag behind in role taking ability.\n\nSeveral researchers have argued that the deficits in the social lives, communication ability, and imagination of autistic children are a result of their deficiencies in role taking. It is believed that autistic children's inability to role take prevents them from developing a theory of mind. Indeed, role taking has been described as the theory of mind in action. Failing to role take and failing to develop a theory of mind may lead autistic children to use only their own understanding of a situation to predict others’ behaviour, resulting in deficits in social understanding.\n\nIn support, two studies found shortcomings in role-taking ability in autistic children in comparison to controls. Another study found that lower ability in role taking related significantly with the lower social competency in autistic children. In particular, the autistic children in the study could not focus concurrently on different cognitions required for successful role taking and proficient social interaction. More specifically, Dawson and Fernald found that conceptual role-taking related most to the social deficits and severity of autism experienced by autistic children, while affective role taking was related only to the severity of autism.\n\nThe main criticism of Selman's role-taking theory is that it focuses too much on the effect of cognitive development on role-taking ability and social cognition, thereby overlooking the non-cognitive factors that affect children's abilities in these domains. For instance, social experiences, such as disagreements between close friends, have been found to foster role taking skills and social cognitive growth. In addition, parental influence amongst sibling conflicts matters, as mothers who act as mediators to help solve sibling disagreements have been found to promote role taking skills and social cognitive maturation.\n"}
{"id": "39723116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39723116", "title": "Rubén Nuñez de Cáceres", "text": "Rubén Nuñez de Cáceres\n\nRubén Nuñez de Cáceres is a professor and the founder/director of the Centro de Valores Humanos (Center for Human Values) of the Tec de Monterrey, Campus Tampico.\n\nHe received his bachelors in philosophy from the Pontifical Gregorian University in Italy and a bachelors and masters in Spanish from the Comillas Pontifical University in Spain. As a professor, he teaches courses in philosophy, ethics and professional values. He feels that students not only need to have access to the latest technology and knowledge but also to training to make them better professionals and human beings.\n\nHe founded the Centro de Valores Humanos after then Tec de Monterrey rector Rafael Rangel Sostmann charged him with the task of creating it as he saw fit. Núñez de Caceres thought he would spend most of his energy “selling” the idea of courses and program related to ethics and values, but has found that since the 1990s, people in Mexico have been receptive to the idea. He defines himself as a “preacher of values who goes in the world teaching what is profitable from acting in an ethical manner.”\n\nHe was worked throughout Mexico, especially in the various campuses of the Tec de Monterrey. He also gives classes, seminars and conferences to businesses, government and non-governmental organizations as well as educational institutions.\n\nHe is currently a member of the Bioethics Committee of the Cemain Hospital of Tampico .\n\nHis first recognition was that of Best Student in 1973. In 1999, he received the Professional of the Year Award from the Rotary Club of Tampico, the Rubén Rodríguez Gutiérrez Award for his teaching career at the Tec de Monterrey in 1999 and the Mérito Candelario Garza Award in 2003 from the government of Ciudad Madero. He was named a Tamaulipeco Distinguido (Distinguished Resident of Tamaulipas) in 2004 and Maderense Distinguido (Distinguished Resident of Ciudad Madero) in 2005 by the Lion’s Club of Ciudad Madero. In 2007, he received the Family Values Award from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). He was named Professional of the Year by the Rotary Club of Ciudad Madero in 2008 and 2011. In 2011, he received the Fray Andrés de Olmos Medal in citizenship from the city of Tampico in 2011.\n\nHe has published ten books:\n\nList of Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education faculty\n"}
{"id": "3406680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3406680", "title": "Segundo Montes", "text": "Segundo Montes\n\nSegundo Montes, S.J. (Valladolid, Spain, May 15, 1933 – San Salvador, El Salvador, November 16, 1989) was a scholar, philosopher, educator, sociologist and Jesuit priest. He was one of the victims of the 1989 murders of Jesuits in El Salvador.\n\nSegundo Montes grew up in Valladolid, Spain, where he also went to secondary school until 1950. On August 15, 1950, he entered the novitiate of the Society of Jesus in Orduña. After a year there, he moved to Santa Tecla in El Salvador under the mentorship of Miguel Elizondo, who described him as an adolescent who hit the football so hard against the wall of the Iglesia El Carmen that he rattled the roof tiles.\n\nWhen he fulfilled his studies in the novitiate in 1952, he followed the steps of other Jesuit students in Central America and moved to Quito to study classical humanities at the Catholic University. In 1954, he began studies in philosophy, fulfilling his licenciatura (licenciate) in 1957. He then returned to San Salvador to teach at the school Externado San José. In 1960, he returned to university to study theology. He started in Oña, where he lived for a year. He later moved to Innsbruck, where he completed the three remaining years of studies. He was ordained a priest July 25, 1963. He returned to Externado San José as a teacher and was naturalised as a Salvadoran citizen.\n\nSegundo Montes spent most of his time in the school Externado San José or in Universidad Centroamericana \"José Simeón Cañas\" (UCA). He worked for two periods in Externado; from 1957 to 1960 and 1966 to 1976. He taught physics for many years, and he was responsible for the laboratories in the school. He was a Prefect of Discipline and Administrative Director. In between 1973 and 1976, he was Rector of Externado San José, which was precisely a moment when the school was going through a deep identity crisis. The consequences of the Second Vatican Council and the Episcopal Conference of Medellín had made Externado San José express a preference for the poor and to prioritize education that contributed to modify the social differences in El Salvador. This sort of discourse was not well received by the Salvadoran elites, who had been traditionally served by Externado San José. Segundo Montes handled this crisis in a constructive way. He was very popular among students and he had many friends. This changed, however, as the political environment in El Salvador became more polarized later in the 1970s. He was not singled out in propagandistic government pamphlets against critical intellectuals until towards the end of his life, when his name started figuring in the lists of Jesuits who were accused of being revolutionaries. His name was commonly the third one after Ignacio Ellacuría and Ignacio Martín-Baró.\n\nGradually Segundo Montes started assuming more responsibilities in UCA as a lecturer in social sciences. For a period, he worked as a Dean in the Faculty of Natural Sciences. To prepare himself for academia, he travelled to Spain, and in 1978 he completed a PhD in Social Anthropology in Universidad Complutense in Madrid. His dissertation was about \"compadrazgo\" relationships in El Salvador. His field work included interviews that he performed on weekends in the western part of the country.\n\nHe returned to teach Sociology in UCA, and starting in 1980, he was the head of the Department of Political Sciences and Sociology. Between 1978 and 1982, he was a member of the editorial board in the academic journal \"Estudios Centroamericanos\" (ECA). He was also a member of the editorial board of the \"Boletín de Ciencias Económicas y Sociales\" and the journal \"Realidad Económico Social\". He was a regular contributor to these journals. He also gave many lectures for national institutes, colleges, worker's unions, cooperatives and political parties. He was also a member of the board of directors in UCA. He headed the team of lawyers who put together UCA's law study program. Beginning in 1984, he headed the research project on Salvadoran refugees. Toward the end of the 1980s, he was the managing director of the human rights institution he founded: Instituto de Derechos Humanos de la UCA (IDHUCA), and before his death, he was preparing the program for the master's degree in sociology.\n\nA prolific writer, Segundo Montes left behind a series of articles and books. From 1982 and onwards he wrote at least one book a year. He wrote mostly in Spanish, and so far none of his works originally in Spanish have been translated to English. However, his research on refugees, displaced people and human rights made him well-known internationally. He visited Washington, D.C., on repeated occasions, to testify in the corresponding committees in the United States Congress, to defend the rights of Salvadoran refugees. His last trip to Washington was in early November 1989. In one of the halls of Congress, the organisation CARECEN (an organisation for the assistance of refugees) granted him a prize for defending the rights of Salvadorans.\n\nSegundo Montes did research and wrote on social stratification, land ownership, the possibilities for democracy and the military. His work on these issues is still a dominant influence on the theoretical frameworks employed by researchers to analyse Salvadoran society. His work is referenced in studies of power distribution and the effects of emigration on Salvadoran society. His published articles included an analysis of economic, political, and other motives for Salvadoran emigration to the United States. It addressed claims by the United States government that Salvadoran immigrants were economic refugees who therefore did not qualify for political asylum.\n\nThe political implications of Montes' commitment to his ideas met strong opposition from the conservative religious and political forces in El Salvador. This opposition led to Montes' murder by the Salvadoran Army in 1989 at his residence in UCA along with five other fellow Jesuit priests (among them Ignacio Ellacuría and Ignacio Martín-Baró) and two employees. Their murders marked a turning point in the Salvadoran civil war (see History of El Salvador). It increased international pressures on the Salvadoran government to sign the Chapultepec Peace Accords with the guerrillas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43719056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43719056", "title": "Sengaku Mayeda", "text": "Sengaku Mayeda\n\nSengaku Mayeda is a Japanese writer, philosopher and teacher, known for his writings on Indian philosophy and Adi Shankara. He was honoured by the Government of India, in 2014, by bestowing on him the Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award, for his services to the fields of literature and education. He is the fourth Japanese to be honoured with Padma Shri, after Taro Nakayama, Shoji Shiba and Prof. Noboru Karashima. He is also a recipient of the Third Order of Merit with the Middle Cordon of the Rising Sun of the Government of Japan, which he received in 2002.\n\nSengaku Mayeda was born on 1 April 1931 at Nagoya, in the prefecture of Aichi, in Japan. He did his pre graduate studies at the College of General Education, in Tokyo and graduated with BA from the Department of Indian Philosophy and Buddhist Studies, Faculty of Letters, University of Tokyo, in 1955. He continued his post graduate studies at the University of Tokyo and secured his MA from the Department of Indian Philosophy, Division of Humanities, in 1957.\n\nHis doctoral research was at the same school at the University of Tokyo and obtained a doctorate degree in 1962. This was followed by a doctoral degree, Doctor of Philosophy, from the University of Pennsylvania, under Professor W. Norman Brown in Rigveda and Sanskrit, in the same year and, later, Doctor of Literature from University of Tokyo in 1973.\n\nIn 1961, Sengaku Mayeda got the Harrison Research Fellow from University of Pennsylvania. A year later, he got the Faculty Research Fellowship of the American Institute of Indian Studies of University of Madras where he had the opportunity to associate with the noted philosopher, T. M. P. Mahadevan. The next year, he got the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung fellowship and worked along with Prof. Paul Hacker at the University of Munster, West Germany.\n\nMayeda started his teaching career in 1964, joining the University of Pennsylvania as the Assistant Professor of Indian Philosophy. In 1968, he returned to Japan and to research as the Director of the Research Division of Suzuki Research Foundation in Tokyo where he worked till 1973. The next assignment was again at teaching, as the Assistant Professor of Indian Philosophy at University of Tokyo, and he retired as the Professor in 1991.\n\nAfter retirement from the Tokyo University, Mayeda was offered the post of the Professor of Indian Philosophy at Musashino Women's University. Three years later, he became the Vice President and worked there till 1998. He continued as the Professor at the University till 2001 when he gave up on regular teaching.\n\nSengaku Mayeda has held many important posts related to Philosophy and Indo Japanese relations. He has been a Director of the Indo-Japanese Association since 1983, a post he still holds. He was the President of the \"Japanese Association of Indian and Buddhist Studies\" for two terms, first from 1991 to 1995 and then from 1998 till 2002. He was the Chairman of the \"Graduate School of Human and Cultural Studies\" at the Musashino Women's University from 1999 to 2001. He has also served as a member of the Steering Committee of \"Japan-India Friendship Year\" of the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He also worked as a member of the Steering Committee of the \"Federation Internationale des Societies Philosophie\" during the period from 2003 to 2008.\n\nSengaku Mayeda presently holds the posts of the Executive Director of the Eastern Institute, founded by Hajime Nakamura, the Chairman of Japan-India Academic Exchange in Humanities and Social Sciences and the President of the Ashikaga Gakko, Ashikaga.\n\nSengaku Mayeda has written extensively about Adi Shakara and the Indian philosophies, by way of published books and articles. Among them, \"Thousand Teachings: The Upadesasahasri of Sankara\", in two volumes, is counted as his masterpiece. The book is a critical study of 27 poetic and 11 prose manuscripts, translated into English by the author.\n\nSome of Mayeda's publications are:\n\nHe has also been a prolific writer of articles which have been published in many journals of international repute and regularly gives lectures on the subject.\n\nMayeda is the Professor Emeritus, University of Tokyo and Musashino University. He has held, during his career, various positions of importance.\n\n\nHe is a research fellow of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Beijing, China and is a recipient of Doctorate of Literarture (Honoris Causa) from the Buddhasravaka Bhiksu University, Sri Lanka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "391905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=391905", "title": "Shiing-Shen Chern", "text": "Shiing-Shen Chern\n\nShiing-Shen Chern (; , ; October 26, 1911 – December 3, 2004) was a Chinese-American mathematician who made fundamental contributions to differential geometry and topology. He was widely regarded as a leader in geometry and one of the greatest mathematicians of the twentieth century, winning numerous awards and recognition including the Wolf Prize and the inaugural Shaw Prize.\n\nShiing-Shen Chern spent nearly a decade at the University of Chicago before moving to University of California, Berkeley, where he co-founded the world-renowned Mathematical Sciences Research Institute in 1982 and was the institute's founding director. In memory of Shiing-Shen Chern, the International Mathematical Union established the Chern Medal in 2010 to recognize \"an individual whose accomplishments warrant the highest level of recognition for outstanding achievements in the field of mathematics\".\n\nChern was born in Xiushui County (), Jiaxing, in Zhejiang province. The year after his birth, China changed its regime from the Qing Dynasty to the Republic of China. He graduated from Xiushui Middle School (秀水中學) and subsequently moved to Tianjin in 1922 to accompany his father. In 1926, after spending four years in Tianjin, Chern graduated from Fulun High School ().\n\nAt age 15, Chern entered the Faculty of Sciences of the Nankai University in Tianjin, but had problems at the laboratory, so he studied mathematics, instead. Chern graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1930. At Nankai, Chern's mentor was mathematician Jiang Lifu, and Chern was also heavily influenced by the physicist Rao Yutai, considered to be one of the founding fathers of modern Chinese informatics.\n\nChern went to Beiping (now Beijing) to work at the Tsinghua University Department of Mathematics as a teaching assistant. At the same time he also registered at Tsinghua Graduate School as a student. He studied projective differential geometry under Sun Guangyuan, a University of Chicago-trained geometer and logician who was also from Zhejiang. Sun is another mentor of Chern who is considered a founder of modern Chinese mathematics. In 1932, Chern published his first research article in the Tsing Hua University Journal. In the summer of 1934, Chern graduated from Tsinghua with a master's degree, the first ever master's degree in mathematics issued in China.\n\nYang Chen-Ning's father—Yang Ko-Chuen, another Chicago-trained professor at Tsinghua, but specialising in algebra, also taught Chern. At the same time, Chern was Chen-Ning Yang's teacher of undergraduate maths at Tsinghua. At Tsinghua, Hua Luogeng, also a mathematician, was Chern's colleague and roommate.\n\nIn 1932, Wilhelm Blaschke from the University of Hamburg visited Tsinghua and was impressed by Chern and his research.\n\nIn 1934, Chern received a scholarship to study in the United States, but he wanted to study under well-known geometer Wilhelm Blaschke. Co-funded by Tsing Hua and the Chinese Foundation of Culture and Education, Chern went to continue his study in mathematics in Germany with a scholarship. Chern studied at the University of Hamburg and worked under Blaschke's guidance first on the geometry of webs then on the Cartan-Kähler theory. He obtained his \"Dr. rer.nat.\" (\"Doctor of Science\", which is equivalent to PhD) degree in February, 1936. Blaschke recommended Chern to study in Paris.\n\nIt was at this time that he had to choose between the career of algebra in Germany under Emil Artin, and the career of geometry in France under Élie-Joseph Cartan. Chern was tempted by what he called the \"organizational beauty\" of Emil Artin's algebra, but in the end, he decided to go to France in September 1936. He spent one year at the Sorbonne in Paris.\n\nIn August 1936, Chern watched the Summer Olympics in Berlin together with Hua Luogeng who paid Chern a brief visit. During that time, Hua was studying at the University of Cambridge in Britain.\n\nIn the summer of 1937, Chern accepted the invitation of Tsing Hua's University and returned to China. He was promoted to professor of mathematics at Tsing Hua. However, in August, the Marco Polo Bridge Incident (near Beijing) happened and the Second Sino-Japanese War started, Tsing Hua was forced to move away from Beijing to west China. Three universities including Peking University, Tsing Hua, and Nankai formed the National Southwestern Associated University (NSAU), and relocated to Kunming, Yunnan province. Chern never reached Beijing. In the same year, Hua Luogeng was promoted to professor of mathematics at Tsinghua.\n\nIn 1939, Chern married Shih-Ning Cheng, and the couple had two children by the names of Paul and May.\n\nIn July 1943, Chern went to the United States, and worked at the Institute for Advanced Study (IAS) in Princeton on characteristic classes in differential geometry. Shortly afterwards, he was invited by Solomon Lefschetz to be an editor of \"Annals of Mathematics\".\n\nChern returned to Shanghai in 1945 to help found the Institute of Mathematics of the Academia Sinica, which was later moved to Nanking (then-capital of the Republic of China). Chern was the acting president of the institute. Wu Wenjun was Chern's graduate student at the institute.\n\nIn 1948, Chern was elected one of the first academicians of the Academia Sinica. He was the youngest academician elected (at age 37).\n\nBy the end of 1948, Chern returned to the United States because of the Chinese Civil War. He then returned to the IAS. In 1949, Chern became professor of mathematics at the University of Chicago. Coincidentally, Ernest Preston Lane, former Chair at UChicago Department of Mathematics, was the doctoral advisor of Chern's undergraduate mentor at Tsinghua—Sun Guangyuan.\n\nChern moved to the University of California, Berkeley, in 1960. He worked and stayed there until he became an emeritus professor in 1979. In 1961, Chern became a naturalized citizen of the United States. In the same year, he was elected member of the United States National Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 1964, Chern was a vice-president of American Mathematical Society (AMS).\n\nChern retired from Berkeley in 1981. He founded the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute (MSRI) in 1981 and served as the director until 1984. Afterward he became the honorary director of the institute. MSRI now is one of the largest and most prominent mathematical institutes in the world. Shing-Tung Yau was one of his PhD students during this period.\n\nThe Shanghai Communiqué was issued by the United States and the People's Republic of China on February 27, 1972. The relationship between these two nations started to normalise, and American citizens were allowed to visit P.R.China. In September 1972, Chern visited Beijing with his wife.\nDuring this period of time, Chern visited China 25 times, of which 14 were to his home province Zhejiang.\n\nChern founded the Nankai Institute for Mathematics (NKIM) at his alma mater Nankai in Tianjin. The institute was formally established in 1984 and fully opened in October 17, 1985. NKIM was renamed the Chern Institute of Mathematics in 2004 after Chern's death.\n\nBased on Chern's advice, a mathematical research center was established in Taipei, Taiwan, whose co-operational partners are National Taiwan University, National Tsing Hua University and the Sinica Academia Institute of Mathematics.\n\nChern was also a director and advisor of the Center of Mathematical Sciences at Zhejiang University in Hangzhou, Zhejiang.\n\nFrom 2000 to his death, Chern lived in Tianjin, China. Chern died of heart failure at his home in Tianjin in 2004 at age 93.\n\nChern's work extends over all the classic fields of differential geometry. It includes areas currently fashionable (the Chern–Simons theory arising from a 1974 paper written jointly with Jim Simons), perennial (the Chern–Weil theory linking curvature invariants to characteristic classes from 1944, after the Allendoerfer–Weil paper of 1943 on the Gauss–Bonnet theorem), the foundational (Chern classes), and some areas such as projective differential geometry and webs that have a lower profile. He published results in integral geometry, value distribution theory of holomorphic functions, and minimal submanifolds.\n\nHe was a follower of Élie Cartan, working on the 'theory of equivalence' in his time in China from 1937 to 1943, in relative isolation. In 1954 he published his own treatment of the pseudogroup problem that is in effect the touchstone of Cartan's geometric theory. He used the moving frame method with success only matched by its inventor; he preferred in complex manifold theory to stay with the geometry, rather than follow the potential theory. Indeed, one of his books is entitled \"Complex Manifolds without Potential Theory\". In the last years of his life, he advocated the study of Finsler geometry, writing several books and articles on the subject.\n\nChern received numerous honors and awards in his life, including:\n\nChern was given a number of honorary degrees, including from The Chinese University of Hong Kong (LL.D. 1969), University of Chicago (D.Sc. 1969), ETH Zurich (Dr.Math. 1982), SUNY Stony Brook (D.Sc. 1985), TU Berlin (Dr.Math. 1986), his alma mater Hamburg (D.Sc. 1971) and Nankai (honorary doctorate, 1985), etc.\n\nChern was also granted numerous honorary professorships, including at Peking University (Beijing, 1978), his alma mater Nankai (Tianjin, 1978), Chinese Academy of Sciences Institute of Systems Science (Beijing, 1980), Jinan University (Guangzhou, 1980), Chinese Academy of Sciences Graduate School (1984), Nanjing University (Nanjing, 1985), East China Normal University (Shanghai, 1985), USTC (Hefei, 1985), Beijing Normal University (1985), Zhejiang University (Hangzhou, 1985), Hangzhou University (1986, the university was merged into Zhejiang University in 1998), Fudan University (Shanghai, 1986), Shanghai University of Technology (1986, the university was merged to establish Shanghai University in 1994), Tianjin University (1987), Tohoku University (Sendai, Japan, 1987), etc.\n\n\n\nHis wife, Shih-ning Cheng (), whom he married in 1939, died in 2000. He also had a daughter, May Chu (), wife of the physicist Chu Ching-wu, and a son named Paul ().\n\nChern's surname is a common Chinese surname which is now usually spelt Chen. The unusual spelling \"Chern\" is a transliteration in the old Gwoyeu Romatzyh (GR) romanization for Mandarin Chinese used in the early twentieth-century China. It uses special spelling rules to indicate different tones of Mandarin, which is a tonal language with four tones. The silent \"r\" in \"Chern\" indicates a second-tone syllable, written \"Chén\" in pinyin but in practice often written by non-Chinese without the tonal mark. In GR the spelling of his given name \"Shiing-Shen\" indicates a third tone for \"Shiing\" and a first tone for \"Shen\", which are equivalent to the syllables \"Xǐngshēn\" in pinyin.\n\nIn English, Chern pronounced his name \"Churn\" (), and this pronunciation is now universally accepted among English-speaking mathematicians and physicists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2718160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2718160", "title": "The New Atlantis (journal)", "text": "The New Atlantis (journal)\n\nThe New Atlantis, founded in 2003, is a quarterly journal about the social, ethical, political, and policy dimensions of modern science and technology. The journal is published in Washington, D.C. by the Center for the Study of Technology and Society. The New Atlantis was founded by the social conservative advocacy group the Ethics and Public Policy Center. It is edited by Ari Schulman, having previously been edited by co-founders Eric Cohen and Adam Keiper.\n\nThe journal’s name is taken from Francis Bacon’s utopian novella \"New Atlantis\", which the journal’s editors describe as a \"fable of a society living with the benefits and challenges of advanced science and technology.\" An editorial in the inaugural issue states that the aim of the journal is \"to help us avoid the extremes of euphoria and despair that new technologies too often arouse; and to help us judge when mobilizing our technological prowess is sensible or necessary, and when the preservation of things that count requires limiting the kinds of technological power that would lessen, cheapen, or ultimately destroy us.\" Writing for \"National Review\", editor Adam Keiper described \"The New Atlantis\" as being written from a \"particularly American and conservative way of thinking about both the blessings and the burdens of modern science and technology.\" \"New Atlantis\" authors and bioethicists publishing in other journals have also similarly referred to \"The New Atlantis\" as being written from a social conservative stance which utilizes religion.\n\n\"The New Atlantis\" tends to publish views in favor of technological innovation but wary of certain avenues of development. For example, the journal has generally advocated nuclear energy; space exploration and development through public-private partnerships, including manned missions to Mars; biofuels; and genetically modified foods. But it has expressed ambivalent or critical views about developments in synthetic biology and military technologies like drones, chemical weapons, and cyberwarfare. Articles often explore policy questions on these and other issues, sometimes advocating particular policy outcomes, especially on health care, environmental management, and energy.\n\nThe journal has published widely on bioethics, including issues such as stem cell research, assisted reproduction, cloning, assisted suicide, organ and tissue donation, the purported link between vaccines and autism, and informed consent. Articles on these issues often highlight the potential for dangerous or degrading developments, including concerns over human dignity, with many articles examining human enhancement, and life extension, and historical precedents for abuse in eugenics and population control.\n\nThe journal also features broader philosophical reflections on science and technology, and tends to be skeptical of what its authors consider to be speculative overreach common in popular discussions. Examples include articles that have defended the existence of free will in light of developments in neuroscience, questioned the wisdom of using brain scans in courtrooms, and described how growing knowledge of epigenetics has undermined common claims about genetic determinism. While the journal has sometimes aired libertarian views about human enhancement and transhumanism, its contributors generally tend to question whether technologies like artificial intelligence, \"friendly\" artificial intelligence, and genetic enhancement are possible or desirable. The journal also publishes the Futurisms blog, dedicated to criticizing transhumanism.\n\nThe journal has also published widely on the interpersonal effects of the Internet and digital technology. It has featured articles on subjects like Facebook, cell phones, multitasking, e-readers, GPS and navigation, and virtual reality. A 2006 article by Matthew B. Crawford advocating the intellectual and economic virtues of the manual trades was noted as a best-of-the-year essay by \"New York Times\" columnist David Brooks, and was subsequently expanded into the bestselling book \"Shop Class as Soulcraft\". The journal also frequently publishes essays on philosophical and literary questions relating to science and technology.\n\n\"The New Atlantis\" also publishes a book series, New Atlantis Books, an imprint of Encounter Books. To date, six books have been released:\n\nAmong the more notable contributors to the journal are physicians and bioethicists such as President’s Council on Bioethics chairman Leon Kass and neuroscientist William B. Hurlbut; prominent scientists such as Raymond Tallis, Sara Seager, and Marcelo Gleiser; political scientists, legal and ethical scholars, and policy analysts such as Yuval Levin, Robert P. George, Peter Augustine Lawler, Diana Schaub, Charles T. Rubin, Jeffrey Rosen, Larry Arnhart, and Jonathan B. Tucker; think-tank scholars such as Nicholas Eberstadt, Roger Bate, Henry Sokolski, and Robert D. Atkinson; space experts and entrepreneurs such as Mars Society founder Robert Zubrin, James C. Bennett, and Jeff Foust; and philosophers, historians, authors, and journalists such as Roger Scruton, Gertrude Himmelfarb, Matthew B. Crawford, Harvey Mansfield, Wilfred M. McClay, Ross Douthat, Victor Davis Hanson, Alan Jacobs, Varadaraja V. Raman, Stephen D. Snobelen, Andrew Janiak, William R. Newman, and Ronald Bailey.\n\nWriting for the National Review in a 2003 column, the conservative author Stanley Kurtz described \"The New Atlantis\" as influential on thinking about science and technology.\n\nRichard John Neuhaus, late editor of the conservative journal \"First Things\", wrote that \"The New Atlantis\" is \"as good a publication as there is for the intelligent exploration of questions in bioethics and projections—promising, ominous, and fantastical—about the human future,\" and a writer in \"The American Conservative\" described the journal as a source \"of fresh ideas on the Right.\" \"National Review\" columnist Jonah Goldberg described \"The New Atlantis\" as \"a new and interesting magazine\" that \"seems to be trying to carve out the space for the government to stop the more offensive aspects of biotechnology.\"\n\nBy contrast, the liberal bioethicist Jonathan D. Moreno has said that the journal offers \"a very dark vision\" about science and technology, but that it \"makes an important point about the need to worry about the ends as well as means in science\" and that its \"writers were young, smart, and had a good understanding of the political process and the making of public policy.\" Bioethicist Ruth Macklin criticized \"The New Atlantis\" as representative of a conservative movement in bioethics that is \"mean-spirited, mystical, and emotional\" and that \"claims insight into ultimate truth yet disavows reason.\"\n\nThe journal has particularly gained a reputation among the transhumanist movement for its criticism of human enhancement. James Hughes, a techno-progressivist and at times director of organizations such as the World Transhumanist Association and the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies, notes that the journal \"has published influential attacks on artificial intelligence, nanotechnology, biotechnology, reproductive technology, and life extension.\" Natasha Vita-More has described it as a \"journal known as a ring of bioconservatives bent on opposing the cyberculture,\" while the Extropy Institute has called it \"a high-powered rallying point for the neo-Luddites.\"\n"}
{"id": "8701321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8701321", "title": "Thomas C. Holt", "text": "Thomas C. Holt\n\nThomas Cleveland Holt (born November 30, 1942) is an American Historian; he is the James Westfall Thompson Professor of American and African American History at the University of Chicago. He has produced a number of works on the people and descendants of the African Diaspora.\n\nHe taught at Howard University, Harvard University, the University of California, Berkeley, and the University of Michigan. He was born in Danville, Virginia.\nHe was elected a Member of the American Philosophical Society in 2016.\n\nA past president of the American Historical Association, Holt was a Fellow of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation and the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars from 1987 to 1988. Holt became a John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Fellow in 1990. In 1994, President Bill Clinton named Holt to the National Council on Humanities. He was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2003.\nHolt was a Citigroup Fellow at the \"American Academy in Berlin\", Germany, for fall 2008.\nIn 1978 Holt was awarded the Southern Historical Association's Charles S. Sydnor Prize for his first book, \"Black Over White\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21883409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21883409", "title": "Tibetan prayer wheel", "text": "Tibetan prayer wheel\n\nPrayer Wheels (Tibetan: \"mani ´khor lo\") are widely used in Tibet and areas where Tibetan culture is predominant.\n\nThe most common form of these objects are hand prayer wheels (Tibetan \"ma ni lag ´khor\" ) which consist of a metal cylinder and a handle which also serves as axis around which the cylinder can revolve, being set in motion by a small weight which is attached to it by a string or chain. The cylinder contains a paper roll on which Buddhist texts are printed. When the prayer wheel is spun in prayer, the mantras inside become potent with the person's intent.\n\nApart from hand prayer wheels there exist large size fixed prayer wheels which are often aligned around Buddhist shrines and are set in motion by pilgrims who circum-ambulate the building in a clockwise direction. Prayer wheels larger than human size are to be seen in separate rooms in Tibetan Buddhist temples and can also be set in motion by pilgrims. With the help of a small bell the number of revolutions can be counted. The cylinders of fixed prayer wheels are often inscribed with the formula “Om mani padme hum” (meaning “jewel in the lotus”) in ornamental Lantsa (Ranjana) letters. \nPrayer wheels (perhaps more appropriately called “prayer mills”) which are set in motion by wind or water power are also known. They are used for prayer of Tibetan festival.\n\nSome experts believe that the prayer wheels evolved from revolving octagonal Chinese bookcases which were first recorded in the 9th century CE. This assumption is supported by the existence of octagonal prayer wheels in Mongolia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23827939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23827939", "title": "Tomb of Min Ziqian", "text": "Tomb of Min Ziqian\n\nThe Tomb of Min Ziqian () is a memorial to Min Sun (courtesy name Ziqian, 536 BCE-?), a disciple of Confucius and the fourth of the 24 Confucian paragons of filial piety. The memorial is located in Jinan, the capital of Shandong Province, China. \nWhile the memorial is designed as a classical Confucian tomb with an ancestral temple, a spirit way, and a burial mound, the actual burial place of Min Sun is not known. Only some of Min Sun's clothes may have been buried at the Jinan site. Other places in Jiangsu, Henan, and Anhui also have tombs erected to commemorate Min Sun.\n\nThe first records of the construction of an ancestral hall dedicated to Min Ziqian on the site in Jinan date to the year 1074 in the period of the Northern Song Dynasty. Renovations were undertaken during the Yuan, Ming and Qing Dynasties. Prior to the Cultural Revolution, the area covered by the memorial spanned about 300 meters in the north–south direction and 200 meters along the east–west axis. The burial mount had a diameter of 78 meters and a height of 10 meters. The site also featured more than 30 old trees and more than 10 historical stone sculptures. The memorial sustained significant damage during the Cultural Revolution, when the ancestral hall was torn down, masonry was destroyed, and trees were cut down. In September 1979, the memorial was identified as the first of Jinan's key historical sites deserving protection. At present, the site covers an area of only 60 (north–south) by 30 meters (east–west). A project to restore the tomb began in 1999, but ran out of funds.\n\nThe tomb is located to the east of Min Ziqian Road, adjacent to the Baihua Park, formerly known as \"Catkins Park\" in reference to the story about Min Ziqian's extraordinary filial piety.\n\n"}
{"id": "1211884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1211884", "title": "Vydūnas", "text": "Vydūnas\n\nWilhelm Storost, artistic name Vilius Storostas-Vydūnas (22 March 1868 – 20 February 1953), mostly known as Vydūnas, was a Prussian-Lithuanian teacher, poet, humanist, philosopher and Lithuanian\nwriter and philosopher, a leader of the Prussian Lithuanian national movement in Lithuania Minor, and one of leaders of the theosophical movement in East Prussia.\n\nThe Storost family was for centuries living in East-Prussia and Wilhelm was born in the village Jonaten (), near Heydekrug, in the Kingdom of Prussia. Wilhelm Storost was the name on his German passport, while Vilimas or Vilius Storostas was the literature Lithuanian form used by himself, his family, and other Lithuanians. \"Vydūnas\" was added to his surname as a pseudonym when he was about 40 years old. Storost was married to Klara Füllhase.\n\nStorost was educated as teacher at the Präparandenanstalt in Pillkallen (1883–85) and at teacher seminar in Ragnit (1885–88). From 1888 to 1892 he was a teacher in Kinten (lit. Kintai), when he went to teach at a boys school in Tilsit until 1912 and taught German, French, English, Lithuanian and sports. In 1912 he left his teaching position in order to take up philosophical studies, which he took at the universities of Greifswald, Halle, Leipzig and Berlin. 1918/19 he taught Lithuanian at the Seminar for Oriental Languages in Berlin under the director Eduard Sachau. Back in Tilsit he dedicated himself to reestablishment of Lithuanian Culture, especially folks songs and rural traditions. He directed a choir and wrote songs as well as theater plays. From 1933 on he worked in Memel at the music school.\n\n1932 he wrote a book \"Sieben Hundert Jahren Deutsch-Litauischer Beziehung\" (Seven Hundred Years of German-Lithuanian relations). His idea of understanding between folks groups did not please the Nazis and in 1933 the book was outlawed. 1938 he was shortly incarcerated, but because of protests released after two months.\n\nTogether with nearly all of the people of East Prussia he was expelled during Communist take-over and lived in a refugee camp for some time. He died in Detmold, West Germany. His grand nephews, Jürgen Storost, recently explained, that Wilhelm Storost's answered his friend Viktor Falkenhahn, that \"his use of the pen name Vydunas was his chosen anthroposophic mission; that he did not want to be a \"pavydūnas\", but a \"vydūnas\" (one who wishes everyone everything good).\nVydūnas was active in the old Lithuanian pagan religion (see Romuva). However, he never declared the revival of the pagan religion as either his personal goal or a goal of Lithuanians, remaining a national leader but not a religious one. His moral influence transcended the confines of being a typical political leader or a writer at his time. He was compared by later biographers with national leaders in India of his time, such as Rabindranath Tagore or Mahatma Gandhi. Pantheistic universalism, not predefined with participating in any obligatory religious practice, was one of the leading ideas of his philosophy, and gained him later fame as a pioneer of both pagan revival and theosophy in Lithuania.\n\nVydūnas was an ethical vegetarian, and wrote several essays about his ethical choices.\n\nVydūnas was considered a candidate for the Nobel Prize by Lithuanian writers association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45506402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45506402", "title": "Vũ Trinh", "text": "Vũ Trinh\n\nVũ Trinh (; 1759–1828) (pseudonames 萊山 and 蘭池漁者) was a well-known Confucianist in Tonkin and high-ranking mandarin in both Le Trinh dynasty and Nguyen dynasty. Vũ Trinh was born in a noble family with many proficient Confucian scholars in Ngọc Quan hamlet, Lương Tài district, Bắc Ninh. His grandfather was Vũ Miên: Headmaster of Quốc Tử Giám and Chancellor. He got title Giải nguyên (解元) () in the interprovincial Confucian examination that was held every three years with small quantity of selected candidates when he was only 17, then became a mandarin. In his career path, at very young age (29 years old), he was promoted to be Vice Chancellor (參知政事).\n\nHe declined the invitation of Ngô Thì Nhậm, a great mandarin of Tay Son for a mandarin position. For this, he was mentioned in a poem written by Nguyễn Đề, stored in Qing dynasty's Literature records:\n\n次東山偶憶蘭溪漁者\n\n東魯行車雨雪飛，\n\n偶懷閒客釣魚磯。\n\n二倫情誼心相合，\n\n十載窮通命每違。\n\n不審役形當世事，\n\n何如拭目看時機。\n\n首陽今日無人問，\n\n也任夷齊採盡薇。\n\nAlong with being a mandarin, he was also a writer. His legacies were mostly written in Chinese.\n使燕詩集 \n宮怨詩集 \n見聞錄 \n皇越律例(Gia Long code)\n\n[1] 皇黎一統志, 吳家文派\n\n[2] 大南列傳, National History Press under Nguyen dynasty\n\n[3] 國史遺編, 潘叔直\n"}
{"id": "14839281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14839281", "title": "Wickedness", "text": "Wickedness\n\nWickedness is generally considered a synonym for evil or sinfulness. Among theologians and philosophers, it has the more specific meaning of evil committed consciously and of free will. It can also be considered the quality or state of being wicked.\n\nThe term wickedness dates back to the 1300s and is derived from the words \"wicked\" and \"-ness\". Wicked is an extended form of the term wick meaning bad and is also associated with the Old English term \"wicca\" meaning wizard. There isn’t a corresponding verb to the term, but the term wretched is also associated with the term. The term -ness is a word forming element denoting action, quality or state and is typically added to an adjective or past participle to make it an abstract noun. It is an Old English term and also comes from the Proto-Germanic term \"in-assu\" and many other cognates.\n\nAs characterized by Martin Buber in his 1952 work \"Bilder von Gut und Böse\" (translated as \"Good and Evil: Two Interpretations\"), \"The first stage of evil is 'sin,' occasional directionlessness. Endless possibility can be overwhelming, leading man to grasp at anything, distracting and busying himself, in order to not have to make a real, committed choice. The second stage of evil is 'wickedness,' when caprice is embraced as a deformed substitute for genuine will and becomes characteristic.\" Wickedness connotes blameworthiness.\n\nThroughout history power is typically seen to be a very dangerous and destructive element in people’s lives. It’s a canker to society or is wicked if you will. Some theorists believe that power itself is actually in fact morally neutral. It is the results of power that determine whether or not power is seen as good. The people in power are then also seen as not wicked in their nature, but rather the urgency for power and within the nature of it is what makes power seen as a wicked idea. Theorists believe that if men were the wicked ones in the equation then the solution to the issues at stake would be ethical improvement. In the end, it isn’t power or man that are wicked, but the results of power that cause it to be wicked.\n\nThere are two different types of wickedness that some people will argue. There is natural wickedness. This is the type of wickedness that is unpreventable such as earthquakes, tornadoes and other types of natural disasters. The second type of wickedness is moral wickedness. This type of wickedness is types of evil that are acted out by humans and can arguably be preventable. What causes the separation between the two is the response to both types of wickedness. During a natural disaster people tend to be sympathetic to the victims of the destruction. It’s this sympathy to the victims that classifies a natural disaster as a form of wickedness. In contrast, to moral wickedness where people will be sympathetic to the victim of the person who committed the wicked behavior. This distinguishes the person who committed the act as a wicked being. It is based on the modern consciousness of society that determines whether the act is considered wicked.\n\nHeavy Metal is a genre of music with lyrics that are dark and people consider to be satanic. It was introduced on Friday the 13th in February 1970 when Black Sabbath released Black Sabbath. Around this time period the Vietnam War was going on, the deaths of Martin Luther King Jr. and John F. Kennedy occurred, the death of Flower Power and the second Cold War was coming into play. These events influenced the lyrics of the songs that are considered heavy metal. While it may seem evil or a form of protest it is really up to interpretation over whether or not Heavy Metal is considered wicked and connected to the devil.\n\nIt is believed that there are four different types of witches that occur within society. First there is the white witch, who is good with herbs and spices. The white witch is considered to be a type of good witch. Then there is the weak influencer. This type of witch uses their power to try to influence others, which can be considered both good and evil.Then there is the type of witch that projects evil onto others. This type of witch is the one that is considered to be wicked. Finally, there is the witch that springs from imagination. Depending on how the person who is imagining the witch sees the witch determines whether this witch is considered good or wicked. Some people speculate that we all are witches in the sense that we all influence people in some way, shape or form.\n\nBuddhism\n\nIn the Buddhist religion, those who are wicked are sent to hell. This is typically seen as a Western idea, but it is visible in the Buddhist’s belief. There are 18 different hells and depending on the wicked behavior that is acted out determines which hell you will go to.\n\nIn the first hell whatever wicked behavior you have committed will be punished by forced nakedness, which is a horrendous punishment.\n\nIn the Burning Cauldron hell, those who have cooked meat are placed there.\n\nIn the Hell of Feces and Filth those who have eaten meat are detained here.\n\nIn the Hell of Cutting and Grinding if the person committed an act of taking a life they are placed here.\n\nIn the Freezing Hell those who did not keep feast days, didn’t do good deeds or didn’t follow the Buddhist way are placed here.\n"}
{"id": "16570396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16570396", "title": "William Fontaine", "text": "William Fontaine\n\nWilliam Thomas Valerio Fontaine (born William Thomas Fontaine; December 2, 1909 – December 29, 1968) was an American philosopher. Teaching at the University of Pennsylvania from 1947 to 1967, he was an American Professor of philosophy in the Ivy League. He was African American and advocated for African American rights.\n\nFontaine was born in Chester, Pennsylvania, an industrial town southwest of Philadelphia. His father worked in a steel mill on the Delaware River. Enrolling in Chester High School at the age of 12, Fontaine graduated in the top third of his class. After his parents died in the 1930s, his aunt raised his younger siblings and funded their continued education.\n\nIn 1926 Fontaine enrolled in Lincoln University, a school about 30 miles west of Chester. He wrote poems and analytic essays for the school newspaper, in which he argued that African Americans needed to show \"ability, aggressiveness, and cooperation\" to succeed. He graduated first in his class in 1930.\n\nOver the next six years, Fontaine taught Latin, history and government at Lincoln. He also pursued an M.A. in Philosophy from the nearby University of Pennsylvania, which he earned in 1932. He earned his Ph.D. in Philosophy from Penn in 1936.\n\nHe worked as a professor of philosophy and history at Southern University in Louisiana from 1936 to 1942. Fontaine married an acquaintance from Philadelphia in 1936, Willabelle Hatton of Iva, South Carolina; they had two daughters, Jean and Vivian.\n\nFontaine returned to Penn in 1943 and audited graduate courses until 1946. Drafted during World War II, he worked at Holabird Signal Depot in Baltimore, Maryland. He taught basic education to illiterate soldiers.\n\nFontaine joined the University of Pennsylvania faculty in 1947 as a lecturer and was promoted to Assistant Professor two years later.\n\nInfluenced by emotivist philosopher C. L. Stevenson, Fontaine called his own position a \"modified ethical relativism\". When a group desired a certain state of affairs, he argued, it might alter the attitudes fundamental to its ethical stance. For example, politicians offered employment to blacks during World War I not in order to achieve occupational racial equality, but to avert defeat by Germany. Blacks may not have been as interested in the latter, but they certainly were in the better jobs.\n\nRaised in an unusually Democratic household in Chester, Fontaine was a strong supporter of the New Deal. During the Truman and later McCarthy eras, Fontaine supported the presidential candidacy of socially liberal Republican governor Harold Stassen, who served as President of Penn from 1948 to 1953.\nFontaine was considerably more opposed to Communism than even to the racism in some Western democracies. As a result, he became a liberal internationalist during the Cold War. He supported Presidents Truman, Eisenhower, and Kennedy in their anti-Communist agendas. At the same time, he strongly supported the growing Civil Rights movement.\n\nFontaine expounded his civil rights views in \"Reflections on Segregation, Desegregation, Power, and Morals\", published in 1967. While he supported racial equality, he argued that the growing Black Power movement contained the same intellectual defects that existed in white racism, in that it sought preferential treatment for blacks and the non-participation of whites in black life. Considered too unfocused by contemporaries, the text received no reviews until 40 years after its publication.\n\nFontaine was diagnosed with tuberculosis in 1949. After working only one half-time and two years of medical leave, he returned to his normal Penn position in 1955. He received an assistant professorship in 1956, tenure in 1957, and an associate professorship in 1963.\n\nInterested in growing African nationalism in the era of decolonization, Fontaine traveled worldwide to discuss Pan-African issues. In 1959, he attended Pope John XXIII’s address of thanks to those who promoted black culture. The next year, he traveled to Lagos, Nigeria, where he celebrated the inauguration of his classmate, Nnamdi Azikiwe as Governor General. Two years later, as secretary of the American Society of African Culture, he attended a conference on socialism called by Senegalese President Léopold Sédar Senghor.\n\nWith the worsening of his tuberculosis, Fontaine finished \"Reflections\" in 1967 and went on indefinite medical leave. After being confined to an apartment for more than a year, he died on December 29, 1968.\n\nIn his honor, the University of Pennsylvania established the Fontaine Fellowships in 1970, awarded to \"provide the additional funds necessary to students from underrepresented minority groups to pursue full-time doctoral study\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54551313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54551313", "title": "Zurich Notebook", "text": "Zurich Notebook\n\nThe Zurich Notebook is one of Albert Einstein's notebooks, from his time in Zurich. It contains much of the basic work for general relativity.\n\n"}
