{"id": "47455869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47455869", "title": "1993 in Sri Lanka", "text": "1993 in Sri Lanka\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1993 in Sri Lanka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16864467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16864467", "title": "Affect infusion model", "text": "Affect infusion model\n\nThe Affect infusion model (AIM) is a theoretical model in the field of human psychology. Developed by social psychologist Joseph Paul Forgas in the early 1990s, it attempts to explain how mood affects one's ability to process information. A key assertion of the AIM is that the effects of mood tend to be exacerbated in complex situations that demand substantial cognitive processing. In other words, as situations become more complicated and unanticipated, mood becomes more influential in driving evaluations and responses.\n\nForgas defined the term \"affect infusion\" as \"the process whereby affectively loaded information exerts an influence on and becomes incorporated into the judgmental process, entering into the judge's deliberations and eventually coloring the judgmental outcome\". In other words, a process that determines the degree to which mood can affect our judgement. According to the AIM, affect (mood and emotion) exerts a notable influence not only on information processing but on the resulting response behaviors as well. For example, if a person receives an inordinately large electric bill, they will respond differently if they have had a relaxing and stress-free day than they will if they have just been stuck in traffic for two hours. Under this latter circumstance, the person will experience high levels of affect infusion, as their agitated state will undoubtedly be made worse upon seeing the electric bill.\n\nAn assumption of the AIM is that this effect will generally occur more strongly as the complexity of a situation increases. Highly complex situations can exhibit a number of qualities, such as the amount of effort needed to process the information, whether the situation is familiar or entirely new and how severely the situation affects the person. Some common activities that tend to produce high affect infusion include: choosing whether or not to drink or take drugs, selecting or getting to know a new partner, explaining a conflict or allocating rewards to a group.\n\nAccording to Forgas, the varying levels of affect infusion can be seen as a continuum, with four alternative processing strategies as markers along that continuum. These strategies represent the different degrees of severity in which mood exerts its influence. In identifying these strategies, two important differentiating factors are considered: \n\nSeveral factors related to the judgment target, context, and judger influence which processing strategy is selected.\n\nThe least intensive of the four, direct access processing, involves reproducing a stored reaction, that is, repeating a response that has been given before to a similar situation. According to the AIM, the influence of mood on cognition will be least severe during this type of processing.\n\nMotivated processing usually involves specific and targeted search strategies with a direct informational goal in mind. This strategy also involves little influence from mood, as the individual in question will have a fairly clear idea of what information he or she needs (although it is higher on the continuum than direct access processing).\n\nHeuristic processing assumes that affective processing, or emotional processing, occurs outside our awareness, with people simply making sense of their emotional reactions as they happen. Thus, affective experience provides people with information about themselves, including their tendencies and implicit judgments. This process is also known as the \"affect-as-information\" mechanism.\n\nAlso called systematic processing, this strategy involves the most elaborate cognitive processing and appears highest on the continuum, as it is the most powerfully affected by mood. The reason substantive processing is most apt to be infused by affect is because mood can affect each stage in the cognition process: attention, encoding, retrieval, and association.\n\n\nTaken as a whole, Forgas has identified two overarching conditions under which mood is most likely to affect information processing: \n\nBecause mood itself is relatively complex, being the sum of many smaller emotional experiences with no single cause, pinpointing its real-world influence is no easy task. But scholars have used the AIM to examine a number of social phenomena with a variety of results. One area of research involving the AIM concerns the model's role in understanding an individual's propensity for risk taking. Since risky behavior can trigger a complex and varied set of emotional responses (elation, fear, acceptance, etc.), a person's mood might be expected to play a substantial and unpredictable role in any choice to take heavy risks. If a person is in a good mood, he or she might be more likely to appraise the risk positively and be willing to accept any consequences in advance. But even if they are in a bad mood, they could be more likely to rebel against their cultural norms and take the risk anyway.\n\nThis relationship has been examined in a particular experiment by attempting to manipulate a person's mood in order to produce infusion responses. The hypothesis is that the \"risk taking tendency is greater for those individuals who are in a happy mood than for those who are in a sad mood\". Participants in this experiment were exposed to one of three priming movies (happy, sad, or neutral) and then measured on a risk-taking scale. The researchers divided the sample into two units of separation, one being age (old and young) and the other being mood valence (happy, neutral and sad). Not only did their data confirm their hypothesis for both younger and older participants, but it also confirmed the AIM as a legitimate instrument for studying the complexities of mood.\n\nAnother study examined how the AIM relates to a specific type of risk behavior: gambling. It investigated how mood affects an individual's sustained inclination to gamble, especially among non-regular gamblers. The researchers separated regular and non-regular gamblers and measured how their moods affected their experiences on the gaming floor. Specifically, they expected non-regular gamblers in a good mood to be more persistent than non-regular gamblers in a bad mood. This is because gambling, when it is a new and unfamiliar experience, complete with the bright lights and colors that are a feature of the average casino, requires a great deal of information processing, making it especially unattractive to someone in a bad mood. Their research confirmed this notion, but in addition, it was used to positively identify depression as a causal factor of addictive gambling, when the casino has become a familiar environment.\n\nIn striving for a deeper understanding of the AIM, scholars have examined different types of behavior that can be expected when affect (mood and emotion) strongly influences information processing. This is by no means an exact science, as the behavioral consequences of affect are usually indirect and varied, but they have been able to show that \"affective states have a subtle and cognitively mediated influence on the ways people perform or inhibit complex strategic behaviors\" (p. 206). In other words, emotion influences thinking and behavior in subtle ways. A person in a strongly positive mood may be more confident and use more direct interpersonal behaviors than they would if they were in a bad mood. They may feel 'untouchable' due to the many good things that have happened to them and approach complex situations with an increased level of assurance. As the research has shown, this effect becomes greater as a situation becomes more complex.\n\nIn this sense, the AIM is a potential instrument for propaganda campaigns that promote a link between positive affect and desired behavior. For example, many failed attempts to dissuade adolescents from smoking have involved morbid and gloomy advertisements that only serve to depress their viewers. According to the AIM, messages that establish a comfortable atmosphere and focus not on the consequences of smoking but on the benefits of not smoking would probably be more successful.\n\nAlong with a clearer understanding of the effect of mood on a person's information processing, the AIM also provides a guide by which researchers can design experiments to investigate the effect of sending persuasive messages to subjects. One important area of research involves the concept of 'mood congruence', or how the results of mood compare to the mood itself. It has been found that 'mood congruence' occurs when a person exhibits a positive relationship between his or her mood and a dependent variable; essentially, as the strength of the mood increases or decreases, so the performance measured by this variable increases or decreases correspondingly. Conversely, 'mood incongruence' occurs when a person exhibits a negative relationship between mood and the dependent variable; thus, as mood increases, performance decreases and vice versa.\n\nThis distinction has been used to study the relationship between moods and personal goals. For those who are mood congruent, mood generally has a positive relationship with goal motivation, which presents a major opportunity to designers of public health information. According to this line of thought, establishing a positive mood state within the emotional feel of a message and then psychologically connecting that state to the desired behavior would be critical to the message's efficacy.\n\nThe AIM has also provided useful insights to other fields. In consumer research, the AIM has helped to explain how males and females differ in their processing of advertising under happy and sad mood states.\n"}
{"id": "2832176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2832176", "title": "Black Indians in the United States", "text": "Black Indians in the United States\n\nBlack Indians are people of mixed Native American and African American heritage, who have strong ties to Native American culture. Many Indigenous peoples of the Eastern Woodlands, such as the Narragansett, Pequot, Wampanoag, Shinnecock, Choctaw, Muscogee Creek and Cherokee, have a significant degree of African ancestry.\nHistorically, certain Native American tribes have had close relations with African Americans, especially in regions where slavery was prevalent, or where free people of color have historically resided. Members of the Five Civilized Tribes also participated in enslaving Africans, and some Africans migrated with them to the West on the Trail of Tears in 1830 and later. In peace treaties with the US after the American Civil War, the slaveholding tribes, which had sided with the Confederacy, were required to emancipate slaves and give them full citizenship rights in their nations. The Cherokee, Creek, and Seminole have created controversy in recent decades as they tightened rules for membership in their nations and excluded Freedmen who did not have at least one Native American ancestor on the early 20th-century Dawes Rolls, but the exclusion was later appealed in the courts. The Chickasaw Nation never extended citizenship to Chickasaw Freedmen.\n\nUntil recently, historic relations between Native Americans and African Americans were relatively neglected in mainstream United States history studies. At various times, Africans had varying degrees of contact with Native Americans, although they did not live together in as great number as with Europeans. African slaves brought to the United States and their descendants have had a history of cultural exchange and intermarriage with Native Americans, as well as with other enslaved people who possessed Native American and European ancestry. Most interaction took place in the Southern United States, where the largest number of people were enslaved. A significant number of African Americans thus have some Native American ancestry, although not all have current social, cultural or linguistic ties to Native peoples.\n\nRelationships among different Native Americans, Africans, and African Americans have been varied and complex. Some groups were more accepting of Africans than others and welcomed them as full members of their respective cultures and communities. Native peoples often disagreed about the role of ethnic African people in their communities. Other Native Americans saw uses for slavery and did not oppose it for others.\n\nAfter the American Civil War some African Americans became members of the US Army and fought against the Native Americans, especially in the Western frontier states. Their military units became known as the Buffalo Soldiers. Black Seminole in particular were recruited and worked as Native American scouts for the Army. On the other hand, other Native Americans and people of African descent fought alongside one another in armed struggles of resistance against U.S. expansion into Native territories, as in the Seminole Wars in Florida.\n\nRecords of contacts between Africans and Native Americans date back to April 1502, when the first enslaved African arrived in Hispaniola. Some Africans escaped inland from the colony of Santo Domingo; those who survived and joined with the natives became the first circle of Black Indians. In the lands which later became part of the United States of America, the first recorded example of an African slave escaping from European colonists and being absorbed by Native Americans dates to 1526. In June of that year, Lucas Vázquez de Ayllón established a Spanish colony near the mouth of the Pee Dee River in present-day South Carolina. The Spanish settlement was named San Miguel de Guadalupe; its inhabitants included 100 enslaved Africans. In 1526 the first enslaved African fled the colony and took refuge with local Native Americans.\n\nPueblo peoples had contact with the Moroccan slave Esteban de Dorantes in 1534 before any European contact. As part of the Spanish Pánfilo de Narváez expedition, Esteban traveled from Florida in 1528 to what is now New Mexico in 1539, when he is thought have been killed by Zunis.\n\nIntermarriage between enslaved African and Native Americans began in the early 17th century in the coastal settlements. In 1622 Native Americans attempted to overrun the European colony of Jamestown. They killed the Europeans but brought the African slaves as captives back to their own communities, gradually integrating them. Interracial relationships occurred between African Americans and members of other tribes in the coastal states. Several colonial advertisements for runaway slaves made direct reference to the connections which Africans had in Native American communities. \"Reward notices in colonial newspapers now told of African slaves who 'ran off with his Indian wife' or 'had kin among the Indians' or is 'part-Indian and speaks their language good'.\"\n\nColonists in South Carolina felt so concerned about the possible threat posed by the mixed African and Native American population (arising due to runaways) that they passed a new law in 1725. This law stipulated a fine of 200 pounds for persons bringing a slave to the frontier regions. In 1751 South Carolina passed a law against holding Africans in proximity to Native Americans, which was deemed detrimental to the security of the colony. South Carolina under Governor James Glen (in office 1743–1756) promoted an official policy that aimed to create in Native Americans an \"aversion\" to African Americans in an attempt to thwart possible alliances between them.\n\nIn 1726 the British governor of colonial New York exacted a promise from the Iroquois Confederacy to return all runaway slaves. He required the same from the Huron tribe in 1764 and from the Delaware tribe in 1765. Despite their agreements, the tribes never returned any escaped slaves - they continued to provide a safe refuge for escapees. In 1763, during Pontiac's War, a Detroit resident reported that Native Americans killed whites but were \"saving and caressing all the Negroes they take\". He worried lest this might \"produce an insurrection\". Chief Joseph Brant's Mohawk in New York welcomed runaway slaves and encouraged adoption of them into the tribe and intermarriage. The Native American adoption systems knew no color line. Carter G. Woodson's notion of an escape hatch from slavery proved correct: Native American villages welcomed fugitive slaves and some served as stations on the Underground Railroad. \n\nDuring the transitional period of Africans' becoming the primary race enslaved, Native Americans were sometimes enslaved at the same time. Africans and Native Americans worked together, lived together in communal quarters, produced collective recipes for food, and shared herbal remedies, myths and legends. Some intermarried and had mixed-race children. Ads asked for the return of both African American and Native American slaves. Some Native Americans resented the presence of Africans. In one account, the \"Catawaba tribe in 1752 showed great anger and bitter resentment when an African American came among them as a trader.\"\n\nEuropeans and European-Americans actively tried to divide Native Americans and African Americans against each other. \"Whites sought to convince Native Americans that African Americans worked against their best interests.\" Europeans considered both races inferior and made efforts to make Native Americans and Africans enemies. Native Americans received rewards if they returned escaped slaves, and African Americans received rewards for fighting in Indian Wars. European colonists told the Cherokee that the smallpox epidemic of 1739 was due to disease brought by African slaves, to create tension between the groups. The British tried to restrict contact between Africans and Native Americans. They feared Native Americans taking enslaved Africans as spouses and tried to discourage trade between the groups. The British also passed laws prohibiting the carrying of slaves into the frontier of the Cherokee Nation's territory to restrict interactions between the two groups. Some tribes encouraged marriage between the two groups, to create stronger children from the unions.\n\nAmong the Cherokee, interracial marriages increased as the number of slaves held by the tribe increased. The Cherokee had a reputation for having slaves work side by side with their owners. Resisting the Euro-American system of chattel slavery created tensions between the Cherokee and European Americans. The Cherokee tribe began to become divided; as intermarriage between white men and native women increased and there was increased adoption of European culture, so did racial discrimination against those of African-Cherokee blood and against African slaves. Cultural assimilation among the tribes, particularly the Cherokee, created pressure to be accepted by European Americans.\n\nIn 1758 the governor of South Carolina James Glen stated:\nIt has always been the policy of this government to create an aversion in them Indians to Negroes.\nIn the 18th century, some Native American women turned to freed or runaway African men due to a major decline in the male population in Native American villages. At the same time, the early enslaved African population was disproportionately male. Records show that some Native American women bought African men as slaves. Unknown to European sellers, the women freed and married the men into their tribe. Some African men chose Native American women as their partners because their children would be free, as the child's status followed that of the mother. The men could marry into some of the matrilineal tribes and become accepted, as their children were considered to belong to the mother's people. As European expansion increased in the Southeast, African and Native American marriages became more numerous.\n\nIn the early 19th century, the US government believed that some tribes had become extinct, especially on the East Coast and those without reservations. It did not have a separate census designation for Native Americans. Those who remained among the European-American communities were frequently listed as mulatto, a term applied to Native American-white, Native American-African, and African-white mixed-race people, as well as tri-racial people.\n\nThe Seminole people of Florida formed in the 18th century, in what is called ethnogenesis, from Muscogee (Creek) and Florida tribes. They incorporated some Africans who had escaped from slavery. Other maroons formed separate communities near the Seminole, and were allied with them in military actions. Much intermarriage took place. African Americans living near the Seminole were called Black Seminoles. Several hundred people of African descent traveled with the Seminole when they were removed to Indian Territory. Others stayed with a few hundred Seminole in Florida.\n\nBy contrast, an 1835 census of the Cherokee showed that 10% were of African descent. In those years, censuses of the tribes classified people of mixed Native American and African descent as \"Native American\". By contrast, during the registration for the Dawes Rolls, generally Cherokee Freedmen were classified separately on a Freedmen roll, even if individuals had Cherokee ancestry and qualified as \"Cherokee by blood.\" This has caused problems for their descendants in the late 20th and 21st-century, as the Nation has passed legislation and a constitutional amendment to make membership more restrictive, open only to those with certificates of blood ancestry (CDIB). Western frontier artist George Catlin described \"Negro and North American Indian, mixed, of equal blood\" and stated they were \"the finest built and most powerful men I have ever yet seen.\" By 1922 John Swanton's survey of the Five Civilized Tribes noted that half the Cherokee Nation were Freedmen and their descendants.\n\nFormer slaves and Native Americans intermarried in northern states as well. Massachusetts Vital Records prior to 1850 included notes of \"Marriages of 'negroes' to Indians\". By 1860 in some areas of the South, Native Americans were believed to have intermarried with African Americans to such an extent that white legislators thought the Native Americans no longer qualified as \"Native American,\" as they were not paying attention to culture but only race. Legislators wanted to revoke their tax exemptions.\n\nFreed African Americans, Black Indians, and some Native Americans fought in the American Civil War against the Confederate Army. During November 1861, the Muscogee Creek and Black Indians, led by Creek Chief Opothleyahola, fought three pitched battles against Confederate whites and allied Native Americans to reach Union lines in Kansas and offer their services. Some Black Indians served in colored regiments with other African American soldiers.\n\nBlack Indians were documented in the following regiments: The 1st Kansas Colored Infantry, the Kansas Colored at Honey Springs, the 79th US Colored Infantry, and the 83rd US Colored Infantry, along with other colored regiments that included men listed as Negro. Civil War battles occurred in Indian Territory. The first battle in Indian Territory took place July 1 and 2 in 1863, and involved the 1st Kansas Colored Infantry. The first battle against the Confederacy outside Indian Territory occurred at Horse Head Creek, Arkansas on February 17, 1864. The 79th US Colored Infantry participated.\n\nMany Black Indians returned to Indian Territory once the Civil War had been won by the Union. When the Confederacy and its Native American allies were defeated, the US required new peace treaties with the Five Civilized Tribes, including provisions to emancipate slaves and make them full citizens of their nations, with equal rights in annuities and land allotments. The former slaves were called \"Freedmen,\" as in Cherokee Freedmen, Chickasaw Freedmen, Choctaw Freedmen, Creek Freedmen and Seminole Freedmen. The pro-Union Cherokee government had freed their slaves in 1863, before the end of the war, but the pro-Confederacy Cherokee kept hold of the slaves until later.\n\nSlavery existed among Native Americans before it was introduced by the Europeans, although it was unlike chattel slavery where slaves become the personal property of a master. In oral tradition, for instance, Cherokees recounted people being enslaved as the result of failure in warfare, and as a temporary status pending adoption or release. As the United States Constitution and the laws of several states permitted slavery, Native Americans were legally allowed to own slaves, including those brought from Africa by Europeans. Benjamin Hawkins was the federal agent assigned to the southeastern tribes in the 1790s and advised the tribes to take up slaveholding. The Cherokee tribe had the most members who held black slaves, more than any other Native American nation.\n\nIn colonial North America, the first exposure that Africans and Native Americans had to each other came from Africans being imported as laborers, both indentured servants and as slaves. Records from the slavery period show several cases of brutal Native American treatment of black slaves. However, most Native American masters rejected the worst features of Southern practices. Federal Agent Hawkins considered the form of slavery the tribes were practicing to be inefficient because the majority didn't practice chattel slavery. Travelers reported enslaved Africans \"in as good circumstances as their masters\". A white Indian Agent, Douglas Cooper, upset by the Native American failure to practice more severe rules, insisted that Native Americans invite white men to live in their villages and \"control matters\". Though less than 3% of Native Americans owned slaves, racial bondage and pressure from European-American culture created destructive cleavages in their villages. Many had a class hierarchy based on \"white blood.\" Native Americans of mixed white blood stood at the top, pure Native Americans next, and people of African descent were at the bottom. As among mixed-race African Americans, some of the status of white descent may also have been related to the economic and social capital passed on by white relations.\n\nNumerous people of African descent were held as slaves by members of Native groups up until the Civil War. Some later recounted their lives for a WPA oral history project during the Great Depression in the 1930s.\n\nAfter the Civil War in 1866, the United States government required new treaties with the Five Civilized Tribes, who each had factions allied with the Confederacy. They were required to emancipate their slaves and grant them citizenship and membership in the respective tribes, as the United States freed slaves and granted them citizenship by amendments to the US Constitution. These people were known as \"Freedmen,\" for instance, Muscogee or Cherokee Freedmen. Similarly, the Cherokee were required to reinstate membership for the Delaware, who had earlier been given land on their reservation, but fought for the Union during the war. Many of the Freedmen played active political roles in their tribal nations over the ensuing decades, including roles as interpreters and negotiators with the federal government. African Muscogee men, such as Harry Island and Silas Jefferson, helped secure land for their people when the government decided to make individual allotments to tribal members under the Dawes Act.\n\nSome Maroon communities allied with the Seminole in Florida and intermarried. The Black Seminole included those with and without Native American ancestry.\n\nWhen the Cherokee Nation drafted its constitution in 1975, enrollment was limited to descendents of people listed on the Dawes \"Cherokee By Blood\" rolls. On the Dawes Rolls, US government agents had classified people as Cherokee by blood, intermarried whites, and Cherokee Freedmen, regardless of whether the latter had Cherokee ancestry qualifying them as Cherokee by blood. The Shawnee and Delaware gained their own federal recognition as the Delaware Tribe of Indians and the Shawnee Tribe. A political struggle over this issue has ensued since the 1970s. Cherokee Freedmen have taken cases to the Cherokee Supreme Court. The Cherokee later reinstated the rights of Delaware to be considered members of the Cherokee, but opposed their bid for independent federal recognition.\n\nThe Cherokee Nation Supreme Court ruled on March 2006 that Cherokee Freedmen were eligible for tribal enrollment. In 2007, leaders of the Cherokee Nation held a special election to amend their constitution to restrict requirements for citizenship in the tribe. The referendum established direct Cherokee ancestry as a requirement. The measure passed in March 2007, thereby forcing out Cherokee Freedmen and their descendants unless they also had documented, direct \"Cherokee by blood\" ancestry. This has caused much controversy. The tribe has determined to limit membership only to those who can demonstrate Native American descent based on listing on the Dawes Rolls.\n\nSimilarly, the Seminole Nation of Oklahoma moved to exclude Seminole Freedmen from membership. In 1990 it received $56 million from the US government as reparations for lands taken in Florida. Because the judgment trust was based on tribal membership as of 1823, it excluded Seminole Freedmen, as well as Black Seminoles who held land next to Seminole communities. In 2000 the Seminole chief moved to formally exclude Black Seminoles unless they could prove descent from a Native American ancestor on the Dawes Rolls. 2,000 Black Seminoles were excluded from the nation. Descendants of Freedmen and Black Seminoles are working to secure their rights.\n\n\"There's never been any stigma about intermarriage\", says Stu Phillips, editor of \"The Seminole Producer\", a local newspaper in central Oklahoma. \"You've got Indians marrying whites, Indians marrying blacks. It was never a problem until they got some money.\"\n\nAn advocacy group representing descendants of Freedmen of the Five Civilized Tribes claims that members are entitled to be citizens in both the Seminole and Cherokee Nations, as many are indeed part Native American by blood, with records to prove it. Because of racial discrimination, their ancestors were classified and listed incorrectly, under only the category of Freedmen, at the time of the Dawes Rolls. In addition, the group notes that post-Civil War treaties of these tribes with the US government required they give African Americans full citizenship upon emancipation, regardless of blood quantum. In many cases, Native American descent has been difficult for people to trace from historical records. Over 25,000 Freedmen descendants of the Five Civilized Tribes may be affected by the legal controversies.\n\nThe Dawes Commission enrollment records, intended to establish rolls of tribal members for land allocation purposes, were done under rushed conditions by a variety of recorders. Many tended to exclude Freedmen from Cherokee rolls and enter them separately, even when they claimed Cherokee descent, had records of it, and had Cherokee physical features. Descendants of Freedmen see the tribe's contemporary reliance on the Dawes Rolls as a racially based way to exclude them from citizenship.\n\nBefore the Dawes Commission was established,\n\"(t)he majority of the people with African blood living in the Cherokee nation prior to the Civil war lived there as slaves of Cherokee citizens or as free black non-citizens, usually the descendants of Cherokee men and women with African blood ... In 1863, the Cherokee government outlawed slavery through acts of the tribal council. In 1866, a treaty was signed with the US government in which the Cherokee government agreed to give citizenship to those people with African blood living in the Cherokee nations who were not already citizens. African Cherokee people participated as full citizens of that nation, holding office, voting, running businesses, etc.\"\n\nAfter the Dawes Commission established tribal rolls, in some cases Freedmen of the Cherokee and the other Five Civilized Tribes were treated more harshly. Degrees of continued acceptance into tribal structures were low during the ensuing decades. Some tribes restricted membership to those with a documented Native ancestor on the Dawes Commission listings, and many restricted officeholders to those of direct Native American ancestry. In the later 20th century, it was difficult for Black Native Americans to establish official ties with Native groups to which they genetically belonged. Many Freedmen descendants believe that their exclusion from tribal membership, and the resistance to their efforts to gain recognition, are racially motivated and based on the tribe's wanting to preserve the new gambling revenues for fewer people.\n\nTracing the genealogy of African Americans and Native Americans is a difficult process. Enslaved Africans were renamed by slaveholders and surnames were infrequently used until after the war. Historical records, such as censuses, did not record the names of enslaved blacks before the American Civil War. Some major slaveholders kept extensive records which historians and genealogists have used to create family trees, but generally researchers find it difficult to trace families before the Civil War. Slaves were forbidden to learn to read and write. A majority of Native Americans did not speak English, let alone read or write it.\n\nIn some cases elder family members may withhold information about Native American heritage. However, knowing the family's geographic origins is a key factor in helping individuals unravel Native American ancestry. Many modern African Americans have taken an interest in genealogy and are learning about Native American heritage within their individual families. Some African Americans may work from oral history of the family and try to confirm stories of Native ancestry through genealogical research and DNA testing. Because of such findings, some have petitioned to be registered as members of Native American tribes. Each tribe establishes its own criteria for membership. Most do not accept DNA tests as proof, especially since these cannot distinguish among the tribes.\n\nDNA testing and research has provided more facts about the extent of Native American ancestry among African Americans, which varies in the general population. Based on the work of geneticists, a PBS series on African Americans explained that while most African Americans are racially mixed, it is relatively rare that they have Native American ancestry. According to the PBS series, the most common \"non-black\" mix is English and Scots-Irish. (Some critics thought the PBS series did not sufficiently explain the limitations of DNA testing for assessment of heritage.)\n\nAnother study suggests that relatively few Native Americans have African-American heritage. A study reported in \"The American Journal of Human Genetics\" stated, \"We analyzed the European genetic contribution to 10 populations of African descent in the United States (Maywood, Illinois; Detroit; New York; Philadelphia; Pittsburgh; Baltimore; Charleston, South Carolina; New Orleans; and Houston) ... mtDNA haplogroups analysis shows no evidence of a significant maternal Amerindian contribution to any of the 10 populations.\" Despite this, a few writers persist in the myth that most African Americans have Native American heritage.\n\nAfrican Americans, just like our first lady, are a racially mixed or mulatto people—deeply and overwhelmingly so. Fact: Fully 58 percent of African American people, according to geneticist Mark Shriver at Morehouse College, possess at least 12.5 percent European ancestry (again, the equivalent of that one great-grandparent).\n\nIn contradiction to Gates statement The Indigenous Peoples Council on Biocolonialism (IPCB) notes that:\"Native American markers\" are not found solely among Native Americans. While they occur more frequently among Native Americans they are also found in people in other parts of the world.\n\nGeneticists also state:\n\nnot all Native Americans have been tested especially with the large number of deaths due to disease such as small pox, it is unlikely that Native Americans only have the genetic markers they have identified, even when their maternal or paternal bloodline does not include a non-Native American.\n\nMost statisticians would not necessarily view the \"IPCB\" and \"Geneticists\" remarks directly above as preventing a sound analysis of genomic contributions from various continents to the make-up of an admixed individual. In general, these analyses are not based on the presence of markers, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), that the sophisticated analyst would describe as African, Asian, European, or Amerind. Peeking under the hood, one would see that autosomal analysis, as opposed to mtDNA and Y-chromosome analysis discussed below, is based on the relative distribution of the SNPs in these populations coupled with their distribution in the genome being analyzed. Techniques such as maximum likelihood estimation and Bayesian re-estimation provide instruments for assessing ancestry, which also assign a level of confidence to the estimate. Relatively small segments of the genome can be analyzed with these techniques, which are well established, having been applied with great effect in many other areas.\n\nThe two common types of tests used are Y-chromosome and mtDNA (mitochondrial DNA) testing. The tests processes for direct-line male and female ancestors. Each follows only one line among many ancestors and thus can fail to identify others. Some critics thought the PBS series did not sufficiently explain the limitations of DNA testing for assessment of heritage. In addition, while full testing may tell an individual if he or she has some Native American ancestry, it cannot distinguish among separate Native American tribes. African Americans are using DNA testing to find out more about all their ancestry. Native American identity has historically been based on culture, not just biology.\n\nAutosomal DNA tests survey all the DNA that has been inherited from the parents of an individual. Autosomal tests focus on SNPs, which might of course be found in Africans, Asians, and people from every other part of the world. DNA testing will not determine an individual's full ancestry with absolute certitude.\n\n\"Black Indians: An American Story\" (as seen on ABC) brings to light a forgotten part of Americans past – the cultural and racial fusion of Native and African Americans. Narrated by James Earl Jones, \"Black Indians: An American Story\" explores what brought the two groups together, what drove them apart and the challenges they face today.\n\n\n\n\nhttps://www.census.gov/prod/cen2010/briefs/c2010br-02.pdf\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46772629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46772629", "title": "Catherine M. Sama", "text": "Catherine M. Sama\n\nCatherine M. Sama is a professor of Italian at the University of Rhode Island. Her research focuses on Early Modern and 18th-Century Italian Women Writers, Correspondence Networks, The Italian Enlightenment, Italian Women Artists, and Gender Studies. In 2013 she was a recipient of the National Endowment for the Humanities Research Fellowship. She also serves as a board member of the URI Center for the Humanities.\n\nSama earned her BA from the University of Virginia in 1985, where she majored in French and minored in Italian. She earned her PhD from Brown University in 1995. She also serves as a board member of the URI Center for the Humanities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34468390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34468390", "title": "Cryptotype", "text": "Cryptotype\n\nCryptotype or covert categories of a language is a concept coined by Benjamin Lee Whorf which describes semantic or syntactic features that do not have a morphological implementation, but which are crucial for the construction and understanding of a phrase. The cryptotype is understood in opposition to the phenotype or overt category, namely a category that is overtly marked as such. \nCovert categories affect words' combinative power. \n\nBritish linguist Michael Halliday argued that Whorf's notion of the \"cryptotype\" and his conception of \"how grammar models reality\" will \"eventually turn out to be among the major contributions of twentieth century linguistics\". Halliday described the concept in the following way: \"Whorf (1956) distinguished between overt and covert categories and pointed out that covert categories were often also “cryptotypes” — categories whose meanings were complex and difficult to access. Many aspects of clause grammar, and of the grammar of clause complexes, are essentially cryptotypic.\" Through the use of Halliday, the term has become important in Systemic functional linguistics.\n\nWhorf introduced the concept in his 1937 paper \"Grammatical categories\" and based it on his belief that all grammatical categories must be in some way marked in language to be able to contribute to meaning. But Whorf noted that not all categories were marked overtly, and some were only marked overtly in exceptional cases, whereas in most or all cases their marking is covert. As an example he gave the English system of gender, where the gender of nouns only appears when the sentence employs a singular pronoun and has to choose between \"he\", \"she\" or \"it\". As long as no pronouns appear, the gender of the nouns are marked only covertly. The fact that a speaker has to know for each word whether the correct pronoun is \"he\", \"she\" or \"it\" shows that the nouns are in fact \"marked\" for gender — just not overtly so. Another example of a covert category given by Whorf was the Navajo language's system of noun classification by which all nouns were marked for a combination of animacy and shape. Whorf himself used the term \"cryptotype\" as separate from \"covert category\" to refer to \"a special, highly concealed subdivision of covertness, amounting sometimes to a second degree of covertness\". Whorf's point in distinguishing between phenotypes and cryptotypes was to show that it is easier for a speaker of a language to be consciously aware of his use of some categories, whereas other categories are so deeply ingrained in his consciousness that they are difficult, but not impossible, to become aware of.\n\n"}
{"id": "38233058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38233058", "title": "Danyahira Sirpa", "text": "Danyahira Sirpa\n\nDanyahira Sirpa is an award given for the best people in the field of Nepal Bhasa. This award get its name from the names of Dana Ratna, Yagna Ratna & Hira Devi Dhakhwa. It is an award of fifty thousand rupees along with a citation on copper plaque is presented annually to a person or group that has made outstanding contributions or achievements in the field of Newari literature or music. The award was started from 2004.\n"}
{"id": "421540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=421540", "title": "Denys Lasdun", "text": "Denys Lasdun\n\nSir Denys Louis Lasdun, CH, CBE (8 September 1914, Kensington, London – 11 January 2001, Fulham, London) was an eminent English architect, the son of Nathan Lasdun (1879–1920) and Julie (\"née\" Abrahams; 1884–1963). Probably his best known work is the Royal National Theatre, on London's South Bank of the Thames, which is a Grade II* listed building and one of the most notable examples of Brutalist design in the United Kingdom.\n\nLasdun studied at the Architectural Association School of Architecture in London, and was a junior in the practice of Wells Coates. Like other Modernist architects, including Sir Basil Spence and Peter and Alison Smithson, Lasdun was much influenced by Le Corbusier and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, but there was a gentler, more classical influence, too, from the likes of Nicholas Hawksmoor.\n\nLasdun's son is the author James Lasdun.\n\nLasdun's grandfather, the Australia-based tobacconist Louis Abrahams (1852–1903), was an important patron of Frederick McCubbin, Arthur Streeton and other artists associated with the Heidelberg School art movement, also known as Australian Impressionism. His art collection was passed down to Lasdun.\n\nBefore and after Second World War service in the army, Lasdun worked for a while with Berthold Lubetkin's Tecton practice, becoming a partner. During this period he also completed one private house in Paddington, in Le Corbusier's style. After the war, Lasdun worked with Lindsay Drake on the Hallfield Estate, which had been planned by Lubetkin and Tecton in a similar patterned, tightly planned idiom to his Spa Green and Priory Green Estates. Lasdun's Hallfield School was the first clue to his mature style, in its use of bare concrete and angularity, as well as its more human scale.\n\nIn the 1950s he was a partner with Jane Drew, Maxwell Fry and Lindsay Drake in Fry, Drew, Drake and Lasdun. His originality became more evident in his 'cluster blocks' in Bethnal Green. These were a response to the critique of much post-war development for creating an isolating environment and discouraging community. The cluster blocks grouped flats around a central tower, and tenants were intended to be able to pick out their own flats in the structure. The earlier blocks at Usk Street of 1954 were medium-sized, while the later block Keeling House is high-rise. Keeling House was sold to a private developer by the London Borough of Tower Hamlets, and is now a block of luxury flats. Lasdun made an excursion into private housing with his St James' Flats in 1958, the plan of which was partly derived from social housing models such as the Narkomfin Building.\n\nLasdun completed what may be regarded as his breakthrough masterwork in the Royal College of Physicians building in Regents Park (1964). Inserted into a nationally important Nash set-piece terrace of neoclassical form, the RCP projects a raised linear form perpendicular to the terrace to create a series of gardens and spaces around the building, with annexes for lecture hall and an historic timber panelled room preserved from the earlier Colleges. Using modern reinforced concrete technology and highly expressive structural methods, the volumes are made to 'float in space' on the slimmest of supports to dissolve spatial boundaries between inside and out. The work makes implicit references to the work of the 'high modernists' from le Corbusier and Mies to the 'Scandinavian modernism' of Aalto, Asplund and Jacobsen as well as the contemporary Brutalist aesthetics of the era, yet developing a personal idiom of opened cantilevered volumes, long perspectives, triangulated form, and clarity of concept and structure that is entirely Lasdun's own. This building, however, is finished in luxurious white Sicilian marble, Murano glass mosaic tiles, polished brass and black engineering brick, and was one of the first post-War buildings to be awarded Grade I listing for national and international significance and influence on the work of others.\n\nElements of Lasdun's most famous style, which combined cubic towers, bare concrete and jutting foyers, which was compared by some to Frank Lloyd Wright, can be found in his first educational buildings, the Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge and the Royal College of Physicians in Regent's Park, the latter of which compared favourably to the surrounding buildings by John Nash. More extensive was his design for the University of East Anglia. This consisted of a series of classrooms and laboratories connected by walkways, and glazed residential quarters shaped like ziggurats. Following this acclaimed design Lasdun designed two buildings for the University of London, one for SOAS (1970) and another for the Institute of Education (1970–1976), which was particularly controversial in its insertion into the previous street plan of squares and terraces, which it tried to replicate in a more Brutalist manner. The expressed staircases make references to Wells Coates and Louis Kahn and Lasdun's masterplanning created a new public square. The building is now listed Grade II*.\n\nThe most famous and disputed of the architect's work is his Royal National Theatre on London's South Bank. Prince Charles compared it to a nuclear power station but it was popular with other traditionalists, with John Betjeman writing Lasdun a letter in praise of its design. Lasdun (or his firm Lasdun, Softley and Partners) designed the neighbouring IBM headquarters (finished 1985) as a continuity with the theatre. His European Investment Bank in Luxembourg was similar. The last work produced by the firm in London was an office block called Milton Gate near the Barbican Estate, which in its use of green-tinted glazing represented a departure from his familiar bare concrete style.\n\nLasdun was awarded the RIBA Royal Gold Medal in 1977. His drawings and papers are available for consultation at the RIBA Drawings & Archives Collections. Despite the controversy of much of his work, most of Lasdun's surviving buildings are listed, although his 1958 Peter Robinson department store on London's Strand was demolished in the 1990s.\n\nLasdun died on 11 January 2001 aged 86.\n\nNational Life Stories conducted an oral history interview (C467/9) with Denys Lasdun in 1996-97 for its Architects Lives' collection held by the British Library.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38958416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38958416", "title": "E. W. Beth Dissertation Prize", "text": "E. W. Beth Dissertation Prize\n\nThe Association for Logic, Language and Information (FoLLI) each year awards the \"E. W. Beth Dissertation Prize\", named in honor of the Dutch mathematician Evert Willem Beth, to outstanding PhD theses in the fields of Logic, Language, and Information. Dissertations are evaluated on the basis of their technical depth, strength and originality. Each year the award can be assigned \"ex aequo\" to more than one thesis, or to no thesis at all. The prize for the year 2013 consists of a certificate, a donation of 2500 euros and an invitation to submit (a possibly revised version of) the thesis to the FoLLI \"Publications on Logic, Language and Information\", published by Springer Science+Business Media.\n\n"}
{"id": "1041878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1041878", "title": "Edict of Expulsion", "text": "Edict of Expulsion\n\nThe Edict of Expulsion was a royal decree issued by King Edward I of England on 18 July 1290, expelling all Jews from the Kingdom of England. The expulsion edict remained in force for the rest of the Middle Ages. The edict was not an isolated incident, but the culmination of over 200 years of increased persecution. The edict was overturned during the Protectorate more than 350 years later, when Oliver Cromwell permitted Jews to return to England in 1657. King Edward I advised Sheriffs of all Counties he wanted all Jews expelled by no later than All Saints' Day (1st November) of the year the decree was issued.\n\nThe first Jewish communities of significant size came to England with William the Conqueror in 1066. After the conquest of England, William instituted a feudal system in the country, whereby all estates formally belonged to the Crown; the king then appointed lords over these vast estates, but they were subject to duties and obligations (financial and military) to the king. Under the lords were other subjects such as serfs, who were bound and obliged to their lords, and to their lords' obligations. Merchants had a special status in the system, as did Jews. Jews were declared to be direct subjects of the king, unlike the rest of the population. This was an ambivalent legal position for the Jewish population, in that they were not tied to any particular lord but were subject to the whims of the king, it could be either advantageous or disadvantageous. Every successive king formally reviewed a royal charter, granting Jews the right to remain in England. Jews did not enjoy any of the guarantees of the Magna Carta of 1215.\n\nEconomically, Jews played a key role in the country. The Church then strictly forbade the lending of money for profit, creating a vacuum in the economy of Europe that Jews filled because of extreme discrimination in every other economic area. Canon law was not considered applicable to Jews, and Judaism does not forbid loans with interest between Jews and non-Jews. Taking advantage of their unique status as his direct subjects, the King could appropriate Jewish assets in the form of taxation. He levied heavy taxes on Jews at will, without having to summon Parliament. \n\nThe reputation of Jews as extortionate money-lenders arose, which made them extremely unpopular with both the Church and the general public. While an anti-Jewish attitude was wide-spread in Europe, medieval England was particularly anti-Jewish. An image of the Jew as a diabolical figure who hated Christ started to become wide-spread, and myths such as the tale of the Wandering Jew and allegations of ritual murders originated and spread throughout England as well as in Scotland and Wales.\n\nIn frequent cases of blood libel, Jews were said to hunt for children to murder before Passover so that they could use their blood to make the unleavened matzah. Anti-Jewish attitudes sparked numerous riots in which many Jews were murdered, most notably in 1190, when over 100 Jews were massacred in York.\n\nThe situation only got worse for Jews as the 13th century progressed. In 1218, Henry III of England proclaimed the Edict of the Badge requiring Jews to wear a marking badge. Taxation grew increasingly intense. Between 1219–1272, 49 levies were imposed on Jews for a total of 200,000 marks, a vast sum of money. Henry III imposed greater segregation and reinforced the wearing of badges in the 1253 Statute of Jewry. He endorsed the myth of Jewish child murders. Meanwhile, his court and major Barons bought Jewish debts with the intention of securing lands of lesser nobles through defaults. The Second Barons' War in the 1260s brought a series of pogroms aimed at destroying the evidence of these debts and Jewish communities in major towns, including London, where 500 Jews died, Worcester, Canterbury and many other towns.\n\nThe first major step towards expulsion took place in 1275, with the Statute of the Jewry. The statute outlawed all lending at interest and gave Jews fifteen years to readjust.\n\nIn the duchy of Gascony in 1287, King Edward ordered the local Jews expelled. All their property was seized by the crown and all outstanding debts payable to Jews were transferred to the King’s name. By the time he returned to England in 1289, King Edward was deeply in debt. The next summer he summoned his knights to impose a steep tax. To make the tax more palatable, Edward, in exchange, essentially offered to expel all Jews. The heavy tax was passed, and three days later, on 18 July, the Edict of Expulsion was issued.\n\nOne official reason for the expulsion was that Jews had declined to follow the Statute of Jewry and continued to practice usury. This is quite likely, as it would have been extremely hard for many Jews to take up the \"respectable\" occupations demanded by the Statute. The edict of expulsion was widely popular and met with little resistance, and the expulsion was quickly carried out.\n\nThe Jewish population in England at the time was relatively small, perhaps 2,000 people, although estimates vary. The expulsion process appears to have been relatively non-violent, although there were some accounts to the contrary. One perhaps apocryphal story told of a captain taking a ship full of Jews to the Thames, en route to France, while the tide was low, and convincing them to go out for a walk with him. He then lost them and made it back to his ship quickly before the tide came back in, leaving them all to drown.\n\nMany Jews emigrated, to Scotland, France and the Netherlands, and as far as Poland, which, at that time, protected them (see Statute of Kalisz).\n\nBetween the expulsion of Jews in 1290 and their formal return in 1655, there are records of Jews in the Domus Conversorum up to 1551 and even later. An attempt was made to obtain a revocation of the edict of expulsion as early as 1310, but in vain. Notwithstanding, a certain number of Jews appeared to have returned; for complaints were made to the king in 1376 that some of those trading as Lombards were actually Jews.\n\nOccasionally permits were given to individuals to visit England, as in the case of Dr Elias Sabot (an eminent physician from Bologna summoned to attend Henry IV) in 1410, but it was not until the expulsion of the Jews from Spain in 1492 and Portugal in 1497 that any considerable number of Sephardic Jews found refuge in England. In 1542 many were arrested on the suspicion of being Jews, and throughout the sixteenth century a number of persons named Lopez, possibly all of the same family, took refuge in England, the best known of them being Rodrigo López, physician to Queen Elizabeth I, and who is said by some commentators to have been the inspiration for Shylock.\n\nEngland also saw converts like Immanuel Tremellius and Philip Ferdinand. Jewish visitors included Joachim Gaunse, who introduced new methods of mining into England and there are records of visits from Jews called Alonzo de Herrera and Simon Palache in 1614. The writings of John Weemes in the 1630s provided a positive view of the resettlement of Jews in England, effected in 1657.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47161264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47161264", "title": "Electromagnetic articulography", "text": "Electromagnetic articulography\n\nElectromagnetic articulography (EMA) is a method of measuring the position of parts of the mouth. EMA uses sensor coils placed on the tongue and other parts of the mouth to measure their position and movement over time during speech and swallowing. Induction coils around the head produce an electromagnetic field that creates, or induces, a current in the sensors in the mouth. Because the current induced is inversely proportional to the cube of the distance, a computer is able to analyse the current produced and determine the sensor coil's location in space.\n\nEMA is used in linguistics and speech pathology to study articulation and in medicine to study oropharyngeal dysphagia. Unlike other methods of data collection, EMA does not expose subjects to ionizing radiation and allows for large amounts of data to be collected easily.\n\nThe ability to observe the movements of articulators has been of great importance to the study of phonetics in order to understand the way sounds are produced.\n\nElectromagnetic articulography uses the principle of electromagnetic induction to measure the position and movement of various points in and around the mouth. A helmet containing electromagnetic transmitters creates a variable magnetic field by running currents through the transmitters at different frequencies. Sensor coils placed midsagittally in the mouth produce current as they move through the magnetic field inversely proportional to the cube of the distance from the transmitters. The current induced alternates at the same frequency as the transmitter coil and the composite signal can be separated out to determine the distance from each individual coil, thus determining the position of the sensor in space.\n\nIn two-dimensional articulography, transmitter coils are placed in an equilateral triangle along the midsagittal plane at the forehead, chin, and neck. Because of the geometric orientation of the transmitter coils, accurate readings are able to be taken as long as the sensor coils placed on the tongue stay within about a centimeter of the midsagittal plane and are not angled at more than 30 degrees.\n\nArticulographs able to measure in three dimensions use six transmitter coils organized in a spherical configuration. The transmitters are arranged so that the axis of a sensor coil is never perpendicular to more than three transmitters. Through the transmitter configuration and ability to measure in multiple dimensions, three-dimensional articulographs are able to make measurements outside of the midsagittal plane. 2D articulographs require restrictive headmounts to ensure that the subject's head does not move off the plane of measurement. Because 3D articulographs are able to measure outside of the midsagittal plane, a less restrictive headmount is able to be used.\n\nThomas Hixon was the first to describe the use of electromagnetic principles to measure articulation. In his letter to the editor, published in \"The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America\", he described a setup using two sensor coils and one generator coil. The sensor coils, attached to the forehead and back of the neck, would remain stationary while the generator coil, attached to the jaw, would move creating variable currents in the sensor coils. These currents could then be used to determine the distance in two dimensions.\n\nEarly EMA systems like Hixon's had problems with accounting for tilting of the tongue during use as tilting of the sensor coils causes changes in the induced current that can skew data. In 1987, Paul Schönle et al. published an improved system that used three transmitter coils (analogous to Hixon's generator coil) and computer software to triangulate the position of sensor coils and account for tilt. However modern two-dimensional systems are still unable to compensate for tilting of sensors past 30 degrees and measurement is distorted if sensor coils are moved off the centerline of the mouth. In 1993, Andreas Zierdt published a description of an articulograph that would be able to measure movement in three dimensions, though three dimensional articulographs have only been commercially available since around 2009. Zierdt's conceptualization placed six transmitter coils equidistant from each other. Because sensor coils are dipoles, when they are perpendicular to a transmitter coil the current induced is zero, so Zierdt angled the transmitter coils so that for any given rotation of a sensor coil, it was not perpendicular to more than three transmitter coils allowing for at least three transmitter coils to triangulate the position of the sensor.\n\nAs sensor coils are placed on the tongue of the subject, articulation may be affected depending on the placement of the coils, but no comparative analysis has shown whether articulation is altered because of the coils. The coils are about 3mm in size and are not considered to be a particularly large source of error for measurements. Some researchers have found that subjects are irritated by sensor coils placed on the tip of the tongue which can lead to disturbed articulation. Similarly, the wires attached to the sensor coils can inhibit articulation if not run out the side of the mouth.\n\nIt has not been shown that long term exposure to electromagnetic fields is harmful to human health, but it is recommended to avoid subjects who are pregnant or who utilize pacemakers. Guidelines place the limit for safe continuous exposure between 100μT and 200μT. The field and frequencies output by electromagnetic articulographs are comparable to those put out by computer terminals with the maximum measured being about 10μT.\n\nVarious diagnostic techniques preceded electromagnetic articulography.\n\nPalatography and electropalatography both measure contact of the tongue with the palate and thus are unable to measure articulations that do not make contact with the palate such as vowels.\n\nPalatography involves the painting of a colored substance onto the tongue which is then transferred onto the palate during articulation. A picture is then taken of the palate to record the location of contact and, if another palatogram is to be taken, the mouth is washed out and the tongue repainted. A particularly low cost method that is often used in fieldwork, it can be difficult to collect large amounts of data.\n\nElectropalatography involves the use of a custom-fitted artificial palate containing electrodes that measure contact. While able to record multiple contacts, the artificial palate may obstruct or interfere with articulation, and each subject requires a custom-fitted palate.\n\nVideo fluoroscopy uses x-ray radiation to produce moving pictures of the mouth during articulation or swallowing. It is considered the gold standard in studies of dysphagia because of its ability to take videos of the entire digestive tract during swallowing events. It is often used to study and treat aspiration of food, what parts of the digestive tract are malfunctioning during swallowing, and positions in which swallowing is easiest. Only limited data is able to be collected as sessions are typically limited to three minutes due to the hazards of radiation exposure. and it does not allow for fine grain analysis of tongue movements.\n\nSimilar to video fluoroscopy, X-ray microbeam studies use radiation to study movements of articulators. Gold pellets, 2 to 3 mm in size, are placed in and around the mouth similar to the coils used in EMA. Radiation exposure is limited by using computer software to focus narrow x-ray beams, about 6mm, on the pellets and track them as they move. Like EMA, x-ray microbeam studies are limited by the placement of the pellets. While able to minimize radiation exposure, the system is largely inaccessible as it is unique to the University of Wisconsin.\n\n"}
{"id": "5750673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5750673", "title": "Empathizing–systemizing theory", "text": "Empathizing–systemizing theory\n\nThe empathizing–systemizing (E–S) theory suggests that people may be classified on the basis of their scores along two dimensions: empathizing (E) and systemizing (S). It measures a person's strength of interest in empathy (the ability to identify and understand the thoughts and feelings of others and to respond to these with appropriate emotions) and a person's strength of interest in systems (in terms of the drive to analyse or construct them).\n\nAccording to the originator of the hypothesis, Simon Baron-Cohen, the E-S theory has been tested using the Empathy Quotient (EQ) and Systemizing Quotient (SQ), developed by him and colleagues, and generates five different 'brain types' depending on the presence or absence of discrepancies between their scores on E or S. E-S profiles show that the profile E>S is more common in females than in males, and the profile S>E is more common in males than in females. Baron-Cohen and associates say the E-S theory is a better predictor than gender of who chooses STEM subjects (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics). The E-S theory has been extended into the 'Extreme Male Brain' (EMB) theory of autism and Asperger syndrome, which are associated in the E-S theory with below-average empathy and average or above-average systemizing.\n\nBaron-Cohen's studies and theory have been questioned on multiple grounds. The overrepresentation of engineers could depend on a socioeconomic status rather than E-S differences, and analyses of autism have \"not\" found that autism clustered preferentially around areas rich in IT industry.\n\nE-S theory was developed by psychologist Simon Baron-Cohen as a major reconceptualization of cognitive sex differences in the general population and in an effort to understand why the cognitive difficulties in autism appeared to lie in domains in which he says on average females outperformed males and why cognitive strengths in autism appeared to lie in domains in which on average males outperformed females. In the first chapter of his 2003 book \"The Essential Difference\", he compares with the bestseller \"Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus\", written by John Gray in 1992-3, and states: \"the view that men are from Mars and women Venus paints the differences between the two sexes as too extreme. The two sexes are different. but are not \"so\" different that we cannot understand each other.\"\n\nHe had previously proposed the mind-blindness theory in 1985, which argued that children with autism are delayed in their development of a theory of mind, that is, the ability to understand the thoughts and feelings of themselves or others. Baron-Cohen says a strength of this theory lies in its power to explain one of the core features of autism (the social and communication difficulties), but a limitation of the mindblindness theory is that it ignored the other main domain in autism (unusually narrow interests and highly repetitive behaviors, also called 'resistance to change or need for sameness'). To address this, Baron-Cohen put forward the E-S theory.\n\nSuch a distinction can be traced back to Robert Vischer in 1873, who postulated the as yet undescribed distinction between \"verstehen\" and \"einfühlung\". It has become common to describe normative masculine pedagogical traits in boys and autistic children from this framework where parents and caregivers often mistakenly consider autistic children to be lacking in empathy.\n\nAccording to Baron-Cohen, females on average score higher on measures of empathy and males on average score higher on measures of systemizing. This has been found using the child and adolescent versions of the Empathy Quotient (EQ) and the Systemizing Quotient (SQ), which are completed by parents about their child/adolescent, and on the self-report version of the EQ and SQ in adults.\n\nBaron-Cohen and associates say that similar sex differences on average have been found using performance tests of empathy such as facial emotion recognition tasks and on performance tests of systemizing such as measures of mechanical reasoning or 'intuitive physics'. He also argues that these sex differences are not only due to socialization.\n\nWhile experience and socialization contribute to the observed sex differences in empathy and systemizing, Baron-Cohen and colleagues suggest that biology also plays a role. A candidate biological factor influencing E and S is fetal testosterone (FT). FT levels are positively correlated with scores on the Systemizing Quotient and are negatively correlated with scores on the Empathy Quotient A new field of research has emerged to investigate the role of testosterone levels in autism. Correlational research demonstrated that elevated rates of testosterone were associated with higher rates of autistic traits, lower rates of eye contact, and higher rates of other medical conditions. Furthermore, experimental studies showed that altering testosterone levels influences the maze performance in rats, having implications for human studies. The fetal testosterone theories posit that the level of testosterone in the womb influences the development of sexually dimorphic brain structures, resulting in sex differences and autistic traits in individuals.\n\nBaron-Cohen presents several possible evolutionary psychology explanations for this sex difference. For example, he says that better empathizing may improve care of children, and that better empathy may also improve women's social network which may help in various ways with the caring of children. On the other hand, he says that systemizing may help males become good hunters and increase their social status by improving spatial navigation and the making and use of tools.\n\nBaron-Cohen's work in systemizing-empathizing led him to investigate whether higher levels of fetal testosterone explain the increased prevalence of autism spectrum disorders among males in his theory is known as the \"extreme male brain\" theory of autism. A review of his book \"The Essential Difference\" published in \"Nature\" in 2003 summarizes his proposals as: \"the male brain is programmed to systemize and the female brain to empathize ... Asperger's syndrome represents the extreme male brain\".\n\nBaron-Cohen and colleagues extended the E-S theory into the extreme male brain theory of autism, which hypothesizes that autism shows an extreme of the typical male profile. This theory divides people into five groups:\n\nBaron-Cohen says that tests of the E-S model show that twice as many females than males are Type E and twice as many males than females are Type S. 65% of people with autism spectrum conditions are Extreme Type S. The concept of the Extreme Type E brain has been proposed; however, little research has been conducted on this brain profile.\n\nApart from the research using EQ and SQ, several other similar tests also have found female and male differences and that people with autism or Asperger syndrome on average score similarly to but more extremely than the average male. For example, the brain differences model provides a broad overview of sex differences that are represented in individuals with autism, including brain structures and hormone levels.\n\nSome, but not all, studies have found that brain regions that differ in average size between males and females also differ similarly between people who have autism and those who do not have autism.\n\nBaron-Cohen's research on relatives of people with Asperger syndrome and autism found that their fathers and grandfathers are twice as likely to be engineers as the general population. Natural science students have more relatives with autism than humanities students. Another similar finding by Baron-Cohen in California has been referred to as the \"Silicon Valley phenomenon\", where a large portion of the population works in technical fields, and he says autism prevalence rates are ten times higher than the average of the US population. These data suggest that genetics and the environment play a role in autism prevalence, and children with technically minded parents are therefore more likely to be diagnosed with autism.\n\nBaron-Cohen's studies have been questioned. The overrepresentation of engineers could depend on a sampling bias, and a 2010 analysis of autism diagnoses in California did \"not\" find that autism clustered preferentially around areas rich in IT industry. Instead, it found that clusters tended to occur in areas where parents were older and educated to a higher level than were parents in surrounding areas.\n\nAnother possibility has been proposed that spins the perspective of the extreme male brain. Social theorists have been investigating the concept that females have protective factors against autism by having a more developed language repertoire and more empathy skills. Female children speak earlier and use language more than their male counterparts, and the lack of this skill translates into many symptoms of autism, offering another explanation for the discrepancy in prevalence.\n\nThe fetal testosterone theory hypothesizes that higher levels of testosterone in the amniotic fluid of mothers push brain development towards improved ability to see patterns and analyze complex systems while diminishing communication and empathy, emphasizing \"male\" traits over \"female\", or in E-S theory terminology, emphasizing \"systemizing\" over \"empathizing\". This theory states that fetal testosterone influences the development of certain structures in the brain, and that these changes relate to behavioral traits seen in those with autism. Males generally have higher levels of fetal testosterone contributing to their brain developing in that particular way. The extreme male brain theory (EMB), put forward by Baron-Cohen suggests that autistic brains show an exaggeration of the features associated with male brains. These are mainly size and connectivity with males generally having a larger brain with more white matter, leading to increased connectivity in each hemisphere. This is seen in an exaggerated form in the brains of those with ASD. Another feature of male brains is having a smaller corpus callosum in at least some regions leading to decreased inter-hemispheric connectivity. This is also seen in those with ASD. Individuals with ASD were found to have widespread interconnectivity abnormalities in specific brain regions. This could explain the different results on empathy tests between men and women as well as the deficiencies in empathy seen in ASD as empathy requires several brain regions to be activated which need information from many different areas of the brain. A further example of how brain structure can influence ASD is looking at cases where the corpus callosum does not fully develop (agenesis of corpus callosum). It was found that autism is commonly diagnosed in children where the corpus callosum does not fully develop (45% of children with agenesis of the corpus callosum). A further example of brain structures relating to ASD is that children with ASD tend to have a larger amygdala, this is another example of being an extreme version of the male brain which generally has a larger amygdala. These brain differences have all been shown to have an influence on social cognition and communication. High levels of fetal testosterone have also been shown to be related to behavior associated with autism, such as eye contact. Studies examining the relationship between prenatal testosterone levels and autistic traits found that high levels correlated with traits such as decreased eye contact. These were present in both sexes. This suggests that fetal testosterone (fT) is the cause of sex differences in the brain and that there is a link between fT levels and ASD. In general females with autism have a higher rate of medical conditions which are related to high androgen levels and both males and females with autism have higher than average androgen levels. Males have higher fT levels naturally meaning that there is less of a change required in the hormone levels to reach a point high enough to cause the developmental changes seen in autism. This is a possible cause for the male prevalence seen in autism.\n\nThe imprinted brain theory is a somewhat similar although not identical theory. It argues that autism and psychosis are contrasting disorders on a number of variables. This is argued to be due to imbalanced genomic imprinting. According to the imprinted brain theory there could be a mismatch and more severe problems when extreme genomic imprinting occurs in the opposite sex, which would explain why female autism (and male psychosis) is often particularly severe, which is a problem for the \"extreme male brain\" theory which predicts the opposite.\n\nEmpathy can be subdivided into two major components: \n\nStudies found that individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) self-report lower levels of empathic concern, show less or absent comforting responses toward someone who is suffering, and report equal or higher levels of personal distress compared to controls. The combination of reduced empathic concern and increased personal distress may lead to the overall reduction of empathy in ASD.\n\nStudies also suggest that individuals with ASD may have impaired theory of mind, involving the ability to understand the perspectives of others. The terms \"cognitive empathy\" and \"theory of mind\" are often used synonymously, but due to a lack of studies comparing theory of mind with types of empathy, it is unclear whether these are equivalent. Notably, many reports on the empathic deficits of individuals with Asperger syndrome are actually based on impairments in theory of mind.\n\nBaron-Cohen argued that psychopathy is associated with intact cognitive empathy but reduced affective empathy while ASD is associated with both reduced cognitive and affective empathy.\n\nThe theory has been criticized on multiple grounds. Columnist at \"The Guardian\" Madeleine Bunting has summarized some of these aspects in the 2010 article \"The truth about sex difference is that if men are from Mars, so are women\". Some research in systemizing and empathizing in early life indicates that boys and girls develop in similar ways, casting considerable doubt on the theory of sex differences in these areas. A cognitive style that more naturally opposes empathizing is Machiavellianism, which emphasizes self-interest and which has been shown to be strongly correlated with competitiveness; evolutionary theory predicts that males will be more competitive than females. In contrast, research has generally shown a weak negative correlation between empathizing and systemizing.\n\nAnother criticism is that original EQ and SQ, which form most of the research basis behind the notions of empathizing and systemizing, both clearly measure more than one factor, and that sex differences exist on only some of the factors.\n\nAs a basis for his theory, Baron-Cohen cites a study done on newborn infants in which baby boys looked longer at an object and baby girls looked longer at a person. However, a review of studies done with very young children found no consistent differences between boys and girls.\nCritics say that because his work has focused on higher-functioning individuals with autism spectrum disorders, his work requires independent replication with broader samples. A \"Nature\" article published in 2011 says, \"Some critics are also rankled by Baron-Cohen's history of headline-grabbing theories—particularly one that autism is an 'extreme male' brain state. They worry that his theory about technically minded parents may be giving the public wrong ideas, including the impression that autism is linked to being a 'geek'.\"\n\n\"Time\" magazine said Baron-Cohen \"most dramatically wandered into fraught territory in 2003, when he published the book \"The Essential Difference\", which called autism a manifestation of an extreme 'male brain'--one that's 'predominantly hard-wired for understanding and building systems,' as opposed to a 'female brain,' one that's 'predominantly hard-wired for empathy'--and ended up on the wrong side of the debate on science and sex differences.\" A book review published in the journal \"Nature\", wrote: \"The idea that males are more interested in systemizing than females merits serious consideration ... It is unquestionably a novel and fascinating idea that seems likely to generate a rich empirical body of literature as its properties are tested. The second part of the theory—that females are more empathic than males—is more problematic.\"\n\nColleagues Isabelle Rapin and Helen Tager-Flusberg expressed reservations about the theory; Isabelle Rapin ... finds Dr. Baron-Cohen's theory \"provocative\" but adds that \"it does not account for some of the many neurological features of the disorder, like the motor symptoms [such as repetitive movements and clumsiness], the sleep problems or the seizures.\" Others worry that the term \"extreme male brain\" could be misinterpreted. Males are commonly associated with \"qualities such as aggression,\" says Helen Tager-Flusberg ... \"What's dangerous is that's the inference people will make: Oh, these are extreme males.\"\n\n\"Phenomenology and the Cognitive Sciences\" characterized \"The Essential Difference\" as \"very disappointing\" with a \"superficial notion of intelligence\", concluding that Baron-Cohen's major claims about mind-blindness and systemizing–empathizing are \"at best, dubious\". \"The Spectator\" says that \"The emphasis on the ultra-maleness approach is no doubt attributable to the fact that Baron-Cohen works mainly with higher functioning autism and Asperger's syndrome.\"\n\nIn her 2010 book \"Delusions of Gender\", Cordelia Fine used Baron-Cohen's views as an example of \"neurosexism\"; she also criticized some of the experimental work that Baron-Cohen claims supports his views as being methodologically flawed. He replied to her critique in \"The Guardian\" and in \"The Psychologist\" publication.\n\nIn her 2017 book \"\", Angela Saini has relaunched the critique that the studies from Baron-Cohen and his colleagues carry on Darwin's \"idea that man and woman...evolved to meet their roles of hunter and gatherer, respectively.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "67018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67018", "title": "Eugene O'Neill", "text": "Eugene O'Neill\n\nEugene Gladstone O'Neill (October 16, 1888 – November 27, 1953) was an American playwright and Nobel laureate in Literature. His poetically titled plays were among the first to introduce into U.S. drama techniques of realism earlier associated with Russian playwright Anton Chekhov, Norwegian playwright Henrik Ibsen, and Swedish playwright August Strindberg. The drama \"Long Day's Journey into Night\" is often numbered on the short list of the finest U.S. plays in the 20th century, alongside Tennessee Williams's \"A Streetcar Named Desire\" and Arthur Miller's \"Death of a Salesman\".\n\nO'Neill's plays were among the first to include speeches in American English vernacular and involve characters on the fringes of society. They struggle to maintain their hopes and aspirations, but ultimately slide into disillusionment and despair. Of his very few comedies, only one is well-known (\"Ah, Wilderness!\"). Nearly all of his other plays involve some degree of tragedy and personal pessimism.\n\nO'Neill was born in a hotel, the Barrett House, at Broadway and 43rd Street, on what was then Longacre Square (now Times Square). A commemorative plaque was first dedicated there in 1957. The site is now occupied by 1500 Broadway, which houses offices, retail, and ABC Studios.\nHe was the son of Irish immigrant actor James O'Neill and Mary Ellen Quinlan, who was also of Irish descent. Because his father was often on tour with a theatrical company, accompanied by Eugene's mother, O'Neill was sent to St. Aloysius Academy for Boys, a Catholic boarding school in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, where he found his only solace in books. His father suffered from alcoholism ; his mother from an addiction to morphine, prescribed to relieve the pains of the difficult birth of her third son, Eugene.\n\nO'Neill spent his summers at the Monte Cristo Cottage in New London, Connecticut and also briefly attended Betts Academy in Stamford. He attended Princeton University for one year. Accounts vary as to why he left. He may have been dropped for attending too few classes, been suspended for \"conduct code violations,\" or \"for breaking a window\", or according to a more concrete but possibly apocryphal account, because he threw \"a beer bottle into the window of Professor Woodrow Wilson\", the future president of the United States.\n\nO'Neill spent several years at sea, during which he suffered from depression and alcoholism. Despite this, he had a deep love for the sea and it became a prominent theme in many of his plays, several of which are set on board ships like those on which he worked. O'Neill joined the Marine Transport Workers Union of the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW), which was fighting for improved living conditions for the working class using quick 'on the job' direct action. O'Neill's parents and elder brother Jamie (who drank himself to death at the age of 45) died within three years of one another, not long after he had begun to make his mark in the theater.\n\nAfter his experience in 1912–13 at a sanatorium where he was recovering from tuberculosis, he decided to devote himself full-time to writing plays (the events immediately prior to going to the sanatorium are dramatized in his masterpiece, \"Long Day's Journey into Night\"). O'Neill had previously been employed by the \"New London Telegraph\", writing poetry as well as reporting.\n\nIn the fall of 1914, he entered Harvard University to attend a course in dramatic technique given by Professor George Baker. He left after one year and did not complete the course.\n\nDuring the 1910s O'Neill was a regular on the Greenwich Village literary scene, where he also befriended many radicals, most notably Communist Labor Party of America founder John Reed. O'Neill also had a brief romantic relationship with Reed's wife, writer Louise Bryant. O'Neill was portrayed by Jack Nicholson in the 1981 film \"Reds\", about the life of John Reed.\n\nHis involvement with the Provincetown Players began in mid-1916. O'Neill is said to have arrived for the summer in Provincetown with \"a trunk full of plays.\" Susan Glaspell describes a reading of \"Bound East for Cardiff\" that took place in the living room of Glaspell and her husband George Cram Cook's home on Commercial Street, adjacent to the wharf (pictured) that was used by the Players for their theater: \"So Gene took \"Bound East for Cardiff\" out of his trunk, and Freddie Burt read it to us, Gene staying out in the dining-room while reading went on. He was not left alone in the dining-room when the reading had finished.\" The Provincetown Players performed many of O'Neill's early works in their theaters both in Provincetown and on MacDougal Street in Greenwich Village. Some of these early plays began downtown and then moved to Broadway.\n\nO'Neill's first published play, \"Beyond the Horizon\", opened on Broadway in 1920 to great acclaim, and was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Drama. His first major hit was \"The Emperor Jones\", which ran on Broadway in 1920 and obliquely commented on the U.S. occupation of Haiti that was a topic of debate in that year's presidential election. His best-known plays include \"Anna Christie\" (Pulitzer Prize 1922), \"Desire Under the Elms\" (1924), \"Strange Interlude\" (Pulitzer Prize 1928), \"Mourning Becomes Electra\" (1931), and his only well-known comedy, \"Ah, Wilderness!\", a wistful re-imagining of his youth as he wished it had been. In 1936 he received the Nobel Prize for Literature after he had been nominated that year by Henrik Schück, member of the Swedish Academy. After a ten-year pause, O'Neill's now-renowned play \"The Iceman Cometh\" was produced in 1946. The following year's \"A Moon for the Misbegotten\" failed, and it was decades before coming to be considered as among his best works.\n\nHe was also part of the modern movement to partially revive the classical heroic mask from ancient Greek theatre and Japanese Noh theatre in some of his plays, such as \"The Great God Brown\" and \"Lazarus Laughed.\"\n\nO'Neill was married to Kathleen Jenkins from October 2, 1909 to 1912, during which time they had one son, Eugene O'Neill, Jr. (1910–1950). In 1917, O'Neill met Agnes Boulton, a successful writer of commercial fiction, and they married on April 12, 1918. They lived in a home owned by her parents in Point Pleasant, New Jersey, after their marriage. The years of their marriage—during which the couple lived in Connecticut and Bermuda and had two children, Shane and Oona—are described vividly in her 1958 memoir \"Part of a Long Story\". They divorced in 1929, after O'Neill abandoned Boulton and the children for the actress Carlotta Monterey (born San Francisco, California, December 28, 1888; died Westwood, New Jersey, November 18, 1970). O'Neill and Carlotta married less than a month after he officially divorced his previous wife.\n\nIn 1929, O'Neill and Monterey moved to the Loire Valley in central France, where they lived in the Château du Plessis in Saint-Antoine-du-Rocher, Indre-et-Loire. During the early 1930s they returned to the United States and lived in Sea Island, Georgia, at a house called \"Casa Genotta\". He moved to Danville, California in 1937 and lived there until 1944. His house there, \"Tao House\", is today the Eugene O'Neill National Historic Site.\n\nIn their first years together, Monterey organized O'Neill's life, enabling him to devote himself to writing. She later became addicted to potassium bromide, and the marriage deteriorated, resulting in a number of separations, although they never divorced.\n\nIn 1943, O'Neill disowned his daughter Oona for marrying the English actor, director, and producer Charlie Chaplin when she was 18 and Chaplin was 54. He never saw Oona again.\n\nHe also had distant relationships with his sons. Eugene O'Neill Jr., a Yale classicist, suffered from alcoholism and committed suicide in 1950 at the age of 40. Shane O'Neill became a heroin addict and moved into the family home in Bermuda, \"Spithead,\" with his new wife, where he supported himself by selling off the furnishings. He was disowned by his father before also committing suicide (by jumping out of a window) a number of years later. Oona ultimately inherited Spithead and the connected estate (subsequently known as the Chaplin Estate). In 1950 O'Neill joined The Lambs, the famed theater club.\n\nAfter suffering from multiple health problems (including depression and alcoholism) over many years, O'Neill ultimately faced a severe Parkinsons-like tremor in his hands which made it impossible for him to write during the last 10 years of his life; he had tried using dictation but found himself unable to compose in that way. While at Tao House, O'Neill had intended to write a cycle of 11 plays chronicling an American family since the 1800s. Only two of these, \"A Touch of the Poet\" and \"More Stately Mansions\", were ever completed. As his health worsened, O'Neill lost inspiration for the project and wrote three largely autobiographical plays, \"The Iceman Cometh\", \"Long Day's Journey into Night\", and \"A Moon for the Misbegotten\". He managed to complete \"Moon for the Misbegotten\" in 1943, just before leaving Tao House and losing his ability to write. Drafts of many other uncompleted plays were destroyed by Carlotta at Eugene's request.\n\nO'Neill died in Room 401 of the Sheraton Hotel (now Boston University's Kilachand Hall) on Bay State Road in Boston, on November 27, 1953, at the age of 65. As he was dying, he whispered his last words: \"I knew it. I knew it. Born in a hotel room and died in a hotel room.\" \nDr. Harry Kozol, the lead prosecuting expert of the Patty Hearst trial, treated O'Neill during these last years of illness. He also was present for O'Neill's death and announced the fact to the public.\n\nO'Neill is interred in the Forest Hills Cemetery in Boston's Jamaica Plain neighborhood.\n\nIn 1956 Carlotta arranged for his autobiographical play \"Long Day's Journey into Night\" to be published, although his written instructions had stipulated that it not be made public until 25 years after his death. It was produced on stage to tremendous critical acclaim and won the Pulitzer Prize in 1957. This last play is widely considered to be his finest. Other posthumously-published works include \"A Touch of the Poet\" (1958) and \"More Stately Mansions\" (1967).\n\nIn 1967, the United States Postal Service honored O'Neill with a Prominent Americans series (1965–1978) $1 postage stamp.\n\nIn Warren Beatty's 1981 film \"Reds\", O'Neill is portrayed by Jack Nicholson, who was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance.\n\nGeorge C. White founded the Eugene O'Neill Theatre Center in Waterford, Connecticut in 1964.\n\nEugene O'Neill is a member of the American Theater Hall of Fame.\n\nO'Neill is referenced by Upton Sinclair in \"The Cup of Fury\" (1956), by J.K. Simmons' character in \"Whiplash\" (2014), and by Tony Stark in \"\" (2015), specifically \"Long Day's Journey into Night\".\n\nO'Neill's home in New London, Monte Cristo Cottage, was made a National Historic Landmark in 1971. His home in Danville, California, near San Francisco, was preserved as the Eugene O'Neill National Historic Site in 1976.\n\nConnecticut College maintains the Louis Sheaffer Collection, consisting of material collected by the O'Neill biographer. The principal collection of O'Neill papers is at Yale University. The Eugene O'Neill Theater Center in Waterford, Connecticut fosters the development of new plays under his name.\n\nThere is also a theatre in New York City named after him located at 230 West 49th Street in midtown-Manhattan. The Eugene O'Neill Theatre has housed musicals and plays such as \"Yentl\", \"Annie\", \"Grease\", \"M. Butterfly\", \"Spring Awakening\", and \"The Book of Mormon\".\n\n\nThe Glencairn Plays, all of which feature characters on the fictional ship \"Glencairn\"—filmed together as \"The Long Voyage Home\":\nOther one-act plays include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "182164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=182164", "title": "Grave of the Fireflies", "text": "Grave of the Fireflies\n\nOn 21 September 1945, shortly after the end of World War II, a teenage boy, Seita, dies of starvation in a Kobe train station. A janitor sorts through his possessions and finds a candy tin, which he throws into a field. The spirit of Seita's younger sister, Setsuko, springs from the tin and is joined by Seita's spirit and a cloud of fireflies. They board a train.\n\nSome months earlier, Seita and Setsuko's house is destroyed in a firebombing along with most of Kobe. They are unharmed, but their mother dies from burns. Seita and Setsuko move in with a distant aunt, who convinces Seita to sell his mother's kimonos for rice. Seita retrieves supplies he buried before the bombing and gives everything to his aunt but a tin of Sakuma drops. As rations shrink and the number of refugees in the house grows, the aunt becomes resentful of the children, saying they do nothing to earn the food she prepares.\n\nSeita and Setsuko leave and move into an abandoned bomb shelter. They release fireflies into the shelter for light. The next day, Setsuko is horrified to find that the insects have died. She buries them in a grave, asking why they and her mother had to die. As they run out of rice, Seita steals from farmers and loots homes during air raids, for which he is beaten. When Setsuko falls ill, Seita takes her to a doctor, who explains that she is suffering from malnutrition.\n\nIn a panic, Seita withdraws all the money in their mother's bank account. As he leaves the bank, he becomes distraught when he learns that Japan has surrendered. He also learns that his father, a captain in the Imperial Japanese Navy, is probably dead, as most of Japan's navy has been sunk.\n\nSeita returns to the shelter with a large quantity of food, but finds Setsuko hallucinating. He hurries to feed her, but she dies as he finishes preparing the food. Seita cremates Setsuko's body and her stuffed doll in a straw casket. He carries her ashes in the candy tin along with his father's photograph.\n\nSeita and Setsuko's deceased spirits arrive at their destination, healthy and happy, and sit on a bench surrounded by fireflies overlooking present-day Kobe.\n\n\"Grave of the Fireflies\" author Akiyuki Nosaka said that many offers had been made to create a film version of \"Grave of the Fireflies\". Nosaka argued that \"[i]t was impossible to create the barren, scorched earth that's to be the backdrop of the story.\" He also argued that contemporary children would not be able to convincingly play the characters. Nosaka expressed surprise when an animated version was offered. After seeing the storyboards, Nosaka concluded that it was not possible for such a story to have been made in any method other than animation and expressed surprise in how accurately the rice paddies and townscape were depicted.\n\nIsao Takahata said that he was compelled to film the short story after seeing how the main character, Seita, \"was a unique wartime ninth grader.\" Takahata explained that any wartime story, whether animated or not animated, \"tends to be moving and tear-jerking,\" and that young people develop an \"inferiority complex\" where they perceive people in wartime eras as being more noble and more able than they are, and therefore the audience believes that the story has nothing to do with them. Takahata argued that he wanted to dispel this mindset. When Nosaka asked if the film characters were \"having fun,\" Takahata answered that he clearly depicted Seita and Setsuko had \"substantial\" days and that they were \"\"enjoying\" their days.\" Takahata said that Setsuko was even more difficult to animate than Seita, and that he had never before depicted a girl younger than five. Takahata said that \"[i]n that respect, when you make the book into a movie, Setsuko becomes a tangible person,\" and said that four-year-olds often become more assertive, self-centered, and try to get their own ways during their ages, and he explained that while one could \"have a scene where Seita can't stand that anymore,\" \"that's difficult to incorporate into a story.\" Takahata explained that the film is from Seita's point of view, \"and even objective passages are filtered through his feelings\"\n\nTakahata said that he had considered using non-traditional animation methods, but because \"the schedule was planned and the movie's release date set, and the staff assembled, it was apparent there was no room for such a trial-and-error approach.\" He further remarked that he had difficulty animating the scenery since, in Japanese animation, one is \"not allowed\" to depict Japan in a realistic manner. Animators often traveled to foreign countries to do research on how to depict them, but such research had not been done before for a Japanese setting.\n\nMost of the illustration outlines in the film are in brown, instead of the customary black. Whenever black was used, it was only used when it was absolutely necessary. Color coordinator Michiyo Yasuda said this was done to give the film a softer feel. Yasuda said that this technique had never been used in an anime before Grave of the Fireflies, \"and it was done on a challenge.\" Yasuda explained that brown is more difficult to use than black because it does not contrast as well as black.\n\nThe film score was composed by Michio Mamiya. Mamiya is also a music specialist in baroque and classical music. The song \"Home Sweet Home\" was performed by coloratura soprano Amelita Galli-Curci.\n\nSome critics in the West have viewed \"Grave of the Fireflies\" as an anti-war film due to the graphic and emotional depiction of the pernicious repercussions of war on a society, and the individuals therein. The film focuses its attention almost entirely on the personal tragedies that war gives rise to, rather than seeking to glamorize it as a heroic struggle between competing nations. It emphasizes that war is society's failure to perform its most important duty: to protect its own people.\n\nHowever, director Takahata repeatedly denied that the film was an anti-war film. In his own words, \"[The film] is not at all an anti-war anime and contains absolutely no such message.\" Instead, Takahata had intended to convey an image of the brother and sister living a failed life due to isolation from society and invoke sympathy particularly in people in their teens and twenties.\n\nSince the film gives little context to the war, Takahata feared a politician could just as easily claim fighting is needed to avoid such tragedies. In general, he was skeptical that depictions of suffering in similar works, such as \"Barefoot Gen\", actually prevent aggression. The director was nevertheless an anti-war advocate, a staunch supporter of Article 9 of the Japanese Constitution and has openly criticized Japan's penchant for conformity, allowing them to be rallied against other nations. He expressed despair and anxiety whenever the youth are told to fall in line, a reminder that the country at its core has not changed.\n\nThe film was released on 16 April 1988, over 20 years from the publication of the short story.\n\nThe initial Japanese theatrical release was accompanied by Hayao Miyazaki's lighthearted \"My Neighbor Totoro\" as a double feature. The film was modestly successful at the box-office. \"Grave of the Fireflies\" and \"My Neighbor Totoro\" grossed at the Japanese box office. While the two films were marketed toward children and their parents, the starkly tragic nature of \"Grave of the Fireflies\" turned away most audiences. However, \"Totoro\" merchandise, particularly the stuffed animals of Totoro and Catbus, sold extremely well after the film and made overall profits for the company to the extent that it stabilized subsequent productions of Studio Ghibli.\n\n\"Grave of the Fireflies\" is the only theatrical Studio Ghibli feature film prior to \"From Up on Poppy Hill\" to which Disney never had North American distribution rights, since it was not produced by Ghibli for parent company Tokuma Shoten but for Shinchosha, the publisher of the original short story (although Disney has the Japanese distribution rights themselves, thus replacing both the film's original Japanese theatrical distributor, Toho and original Japanese home video distributor, Bandai Visual). It was one of the last Studio Ghibli films to get an English-language premiere by GKIDS.\n\n\"Grave of the Fireflies\" was released in Japan on VHS by Buena Vista Home Entertainment on 7 August 1998. On 29 July 2005, a DVD release was published through Warner Home Video. Walt Disney Home Entertainment (WDHE) released the complete collector's edition DVD on 6 August 2008. WDHE released the film on Blu-ray twice on 18 July 2012: one as a single release, and one in a two-film set with \"My Neighbor Totoro\" (even though Disney never currently owns the North American but Japanese rights as mentioned).\n\nIt was released on VHS in North America by Central Park Media in a subtitled form on 2 June 1993. They later released the film with an English dub on VHS on September 1, 1998 (the day Disney released \"Kiki's Delivery Service\") and an all-Regions DVD (which also included the original Japanese with English subtitles) on October 7 the same year. It was later released on a two-disc DVD set (which once again included both the English dub and the original Japanese with English subtitles as well as the film's storyboards with the second disc containing a retrospective on the author of the original book, an interview with the director, and an interview with critic Roger Ebert, who felt the film was one of the greatest of all time.) on October 8, 2002. It was released by Central Park Media one last time on December 7, 2004. Following the May 2009 bankruptcy and liquidation of Central Park Media, ADV Films acquired the rights and re-released it on DVD on 7 July 2009. Following the 1 September 2009 shutdown and re-branding of ADV, their successor, Sentai Filmworks, rescued the film and released a remastered DVD on 6 March 2012, and plans on releasing the film on digital outlets. A Blu-ray edition was released on 20 November 2012, featuring an all-new English dub produced by Seraphim Digital.\n\nStudioCanal released a Blu-ray in the United Kingdom on 1 July 2013, followed by \"Kiki's Delivery Service\" on the same format. Madman Entertainment released the film in Australia and New Zealand.\n\n\"The Grave of the Fireflies\" is commonly described as an anti-war film, but this interpretation has been denied by the director.\n\nThe film received universal critical acclaim. Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" considered it to be one of the best and most powerful war films and, in 2000, included it on his list of great films. The film review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 97% approval rating based on 36 reviews with an average rating of 9.1/10. The website's critical consensus reads: \"An achingly sad anti-war film, \"Grave of the Fireflies\" is one of Studio Ghibli's most profoundly beautiful, haunting works\".\n\nThe film made \"Time Out\" magazine's top 50 animated film list, with help from director Terry Gilliam, where it was ranked at #12. Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" put the film on his \"Great Movies List\" calling it, \"an emotional experience so powerful that it forces a rethinking of animation.\"\n\nThe film ranked #12 on \"Total Film\"s 50 greatest animated films. It was also ranked at #10 in \"Time Out\"s \"The 50 greatest World War II movies\" list. \"Empire\" magazine ranked the film at #6 in its list of \"The Top 10 Depressing Movies\". The film ranked #19 on \"Wizard's Anime\" Magazine on their \"Top 50 Anime released in North America\". Theron Martin of \"Anime News Network\" said that, in terms of the original U.S. Manga Corps dub, while the other voices were \"perfectly acceptable,\" \"Setsuko just doesn't sound quite convincing as a four-year-old in English. That, unfortunately, is a big negative, since a good chunk of the pathos the movie delivers is at least partly dependent on that performance.\"\n\nOn 25 December 2016, Toei Company made a Twitter post that read in order to promote an episode of \"Kamen Rider Ex-Aid\". The hashtag became viral but Toei deleted the tweet after receiving complaints that referencing the \"Grave of the Fireflies\" line was in poor taste.\n\nNTV in Japan produced a live-action TV drama of \"Grave of the Fireflies\", in commemoration of the 60th anniversary of the end of World War II. The drama aired on 1 November 2005. Like the anime, the live-action version of \"Grave of the Fireflies\" focuses on two siblings struggling to survive the final months of the war in Kobe, Japan. Unlike the animated version, it tells the story from the point of view of their cousin (the aunt's daughter) and deals with the issue of how the war-time environment could change a kind lady into a hard-hearted woman. It stars Nanako Matsushima as the aunt, as well as Mao Inoue as their cousin.\n\nA different live-action version was released in Japan on 5 July 2008. The film stars Reo Yoshitake as Seita, Rina Hatakeyama as Setsuko, Keiko Matsuzaka as the aunt, and Seiko Matsuda as the children's mother.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14197", "title": "Hanover", "text": "Hanover\n\nHanover or Hannover (; ; ) is the capital and largest city of the German federal state of Lower Saxony, and its 535,061 (2017) inhabitants make it the thirteenth largest city of Germany, as well as the third-largest city of Northern Germany after Hamburg and Bremen. The city lies at the confluence of the River Leine (progression: ) and its tributary Ihme, in the south of the North German Plain, and is the largest city of the Hannover–Braunschweig–Göttingen–Wolfsburg Metropolitan Region. It is the fifth-largest city in the Low German dialect area after Hamburg, Dortmund, Essen, and Bremen.\n\nBefore it became the capital of Lower Saxony in 1946, Hanover was the capital of the Principality of Calenberg (1636-1692), the Electorate of Brunswick-Lüneburg (1692-1814), the Kingdom of Hanover (1814-1866), the Province of Hanover of the Kingdom of Prussia (1868-1918), the Province of Hanover of the Free State of Prussia (1918-1946), and of the State of Hanover (1946). From 1714 to 1837, Hanover was by personal union the family seat of the Hanoverian Kings of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, under their title of the dukes of Brunswick-Lüneburg (later described as the Elector of Hanover).\n\nThe city is a major crossing point of railway lines and highways (Autobahnen), connecting European main lines in both the east-west (Berlin–Ruhr area/Düsseldorf/Cologne) and north-south (Hamburg–Frankfurt/Stuttgart/Munich) directions. Hannover Airport lies north of the city, in Langenhagen, and is Germany's ninth-busiest airport. The city's most notable institutions of higher education are the Hannover Medical School with its university hospital (Klinikum der Medizinischen Hochschule Hannover), and the University of Hanover.\n\nThe Hanover fairground, due to numerous extensions, especially for the Expo 2000, is the largest in the world. Hanover hosts annual commercial trade fairs such as the Hanover Fair and up to 2018 the CeBIT. The IAA Commercial Vehicles show takes place every two years. It is the world's leading trade show for transport, logistics and mobility. Every year Hanover hosts the Schützenfest Hannover, the world's largest marksmen's festival, and the Oktoberfest Hannover.\n\n\"Hanover\" is the traditional English spelling. The German spelling (with a double n) is becoming more popular in English; recent editions of encyclopedias prefer the German spelling, and the local government uses the German spelling on English websites. The English pronunciation, with stress on the first syllable, is applied to both the German and English spellings, which is different from German pronunciation, with stress on the second syllable and a long second vowel. The traditional English spelling is still used in historical contexts, especially when referring to the British House of Hanover.\n\nHanover was founded in medieval times on the east bank of the River Leine. Its original name \"Honovere\" may mean \"high (river)bank\", though this is debated (cf. \"das Hohe Ufer\"). Hanover was a small village of ferrymen and fishermen that became a comparatively large town in the 13th century, receiving town privileges in 1241, due to its position at a natural crossroads. As overland travel was relatively difficult, its position on the upper navigable reaches of the river helped it to grow by increasing trade. It was connected to the Hanseatic League city of Bremen by the Leine, and was situated near the southern edge of the wide North German Plain and north-west of the Harz mountains, so that east-west traffic such as mule trains passed through it. Hanover was thus a gateway to the Rhine, Ruhr and Saar river valleys, their industrial areas which grew up to the southwest and the plains regions to the east and north, for overland traffic skirting the Harz between the Low Countries and Saxony or Thuringia.\n\nIn the 14th century the main churches of Hanover were built, as well as a city wall with three city gates. The beginning of industrialization in Germany led to trade in iron and silver from the northern Harz Mountains, which increased the city's importance.\n\nIn 1636 George, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg, ruler of the Brunswick-Lüneburg principality of Calenberg, moved his residence to Hanover. The Dukes of Brunswick-Lüneburg was elevated by the Holy Roman Emperor to the rank of Prince-Elector in 1692, and this elevation was confirmed by the Imperial Diet in 1708. Thus the principality was upgraded to the Electorate of Brunswick-Lüneburg, colloquially known as the Electorate of Hanover after Calenberg's capital (see also: House of Hanover). Its Electors later become monarchs of Great Britain (and from 1801, of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland). The first of these was George I Louis, who acceded to the British throne in 1714. The last British monarch who reigned in Hanover was William IV. Semi-Salic law, which required succession by the male line if possible, forbade the accession of Queen Victoria in Hanover. As a male-line descendant of George I, Queen Victoria was herself a member of the House of Hanover. Her descendants, however, bore her husband's titular name of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha. Three kings of Great Britain, or the United Kingdom, were concurrently also Electoral Princes of Hanover.\n\nDuring the time of the personal union of the crowns of the United Kingdom and Hanover (1714–1837), the monarchs rarely visited the city. In fact, during the reigns of the final three joint rulers (1760–1837), there was only one short visit, by George IV in 1821. From 1816 to 1837 Viceroy Adolphus represented the monarch in Hanover.\n\nDuring the Seven Years' War, the Battle of Hastenbeck was fought near the city on 26 July 1757. The French army defeated the Hanoverian Army of Observation, leading to the city's occupation as part of the Invasion of Hanover. It was recaptured by Anglo-German forces led by Ferdinand of Brunswick the following year.\n\nAfter Napoleon imposed the Convention of Artlenburg (Convention of the Elbe) on July 5, 1803, about 35,000 French soldiers occupied Hanover. The Convention also required disbanding the army of Hanover. However, George III did not recognize the Convention of the Elbe. This resulted in a great number of soldiers from Hanover eventually emigrating to Great Britain, where the King's German Legion was formed. It was only troops from Hanover and Brunswick that consistently opposed France throughout the entire Napoleonic wars. The Legion later played an important role in the Battle of Waterloo in 1815. The Congress of Vienna in 1815 elevated the electorate to the Kingdom of Hanover. The capital town Hanover expanded to the western bank of the Leine and since then has grown considerably.\n\nIn 1837, the personal union of the United Kingdom and Hanover ended because William IV's heir in the United Kingdom was female (Queen Victoria). Hanover could be inherited only by male heirs. Thus, Hanover passed to William IV's brother, Ernest Augustus, and remained a kingdom until 1866, when it was annexed by Prussia during the Austro-Prussian war. Despite Hanover being expected to defeat Prussia at the Battle of Langensalza, Prussia employed Moltke the Elder's Kesselschlacht order of battle to instead destroy the Hanoverian army. The city of Hanover became the capital of the Prussian Province of Hanover. After the annexation, the people of Hanover generally opposed the Prussian government.\n\nTo Hanover's industry, however, the new connection with Prussia meant an improvement in business. The introduction of free trade promoted economic growth and led to the recovery of the Gründerzeit (the founders' era). Between 1879 and 1902 Hanover's population grew from 87,600 to 313,940. \n\nIn 1842 the first horse railway was inaugurated, and from 1893 an electric tram was installed. In 1887 Hanover's Emile Berliner invented the record and the gramophone.\n\nAfter 1937 the Lord Mayor and the state commissioners of Hanover were members of the NSDAP (Nazi party). A large Jewish population then existed in Hanover. In October 1938, 484 Hanoverian Jews of Polish origin were expelled to Poland, including the Grynszpan family. However, Poland refused to accept them, leaving them stranded at the border with thousands of other Polish-Jewish deportees, fed only intermittently by the Polish Red Cross and Jewish welfare organisations. The Grynszpans' son Herschel Grynszpan was in Paris at the time. When he learned of what was happening, he drove to the German embassy in Paris and shot the German diplomat Eduard Ernst vom Rath, who died shortly afterwards.\n\nThe Nazis took this act as a pretext to stage a nationwide pogrom known as Kristallnacht (9 November 1938). On that day, the synagogue of Hanover, designed in 1870 by Edwin Oppler in neo-romantic style, was burnt by the Nazis.\n\nIn September 1941, through the \"Action Lauterbacher\" plan, a ghettoisation of the remaining Hanoverian Jewish families began. Even before the Wannsee Conference, on 15 December 1941, the first Jews from Hanover were deported to Riga. A total of 2,400 people were deported, and very few survived. During the war seven concentration camps were constructed in Hanover, in which many Jews were confined. Of the approximately 4,800 Jews who had lived in Hannover in 1938, fewer than 100 were still in the city when troops of the United States Army arrived on 10 April 1945 to occupy Hanover at the end of the war. Today, a memorial at the Opera Square is a reminder of the persecution of the Jews in Hanover. \nAfter the war a large group of Orthodox Jewish survivors of the nearby Bergen-Belsen concentration camp settled in Hanover.\nAs an important railroad and road junction and production centre, Hanover was a major target for strategic bombing during World War II, including the Oil Campaign. Targets included the AFA (Stöcken), the Deurag-Nerag refinery (Misburg), the Continental plants (Vahrenwald and Limmer), the United light metal works (VLW) in Ricklingen and Laatzen (today Hanover fairground), the Hanover/Limmer rubber reclamation plant, the Hanomag factory (Linden) and the tank factory \"M.N.H. Maschinenfabrik Niedersachsen\" (Badenstedt). Residential areas were also targeted, and more than 6,000 civilians were killed by the Allied bombing raids. More than 90% of the city centre was destroyed in a total of 88 bombing raids. After the war, the was not rebuilt and its ruins were left as a war memorial.\n\nThe Allied ground advance into Germany reached Hanover in April 1945. The US 84th Infantry Division captured the city on 10 April 1945.\n\nHanover was in the British zone of occupation of Germany and became part of the new state (Land) of Lower Saxony in 1946.\n\nToday Hanover is a Vice-President City of Mayors for Peace, an international mayoral organisation mobilising cities and citizens worldwide to abolish and eliminate nuclear weapons by the year 2020.\n\nHanover experiences a humid continental climate (Köppen climate classification \"Dfb\").\n\n\n\nOne of Hanover's most famous sights is the \"Royal Gardens of Herrenhausen\". Its \"Great Garden\" is an important European baroque garden. The palace itself was largely destroyed by Allied bombing but has been reconstructed and reopened in 2013. Among the points of interest is the \"Grotto\". Its interior was designed by the French artist Niki de Saint Phalle). The Great Garden consists of several parts and contains Europe's highest garden fountain. The historic \"Garden Theatre\" hosted the musicals of the German rock musician Heinz Rudolf Kunze.\n\nAlso at Herrenhausen, the \"Berggarten\" is a botanical garden with the most varied collection of orchids in Europe. Some points of interest are the \"Tropical House\", the \"Cactus House\", the \"Canary House\" and the \"Orchid House\", and free-flying birds and butterflies. Near the entrance to the Berggarten is the historic \"Library Pavillon\". The \"Mausoleum\" of the Guelphs is also located in the Berggarten. Like the Great Garden, the Berggarten also consists of several parts, for example the \"Paradies\" and the \"Prairie Garden\". The \"Georgengarten\" is an English landscape garden. The \"Leibniz Temple\" and the \"Georgen Palace\" are two points of interest there.\n\nThe landmark of Hanover is the New Town Hall (\"Neues Rathaus\"). Inside the building are four scale models of the city. A worldwide unique diagonal/arch elevator goes up the large dome at a 17 degree angle to an observation deck.\n\nThe \"Hanover Zoo\" received the Park Scout Award for the fourth year running in 2009/10, placing it among the best zoos in Germany. The zoo consists of several theme areas: Sambesi, Meyers Farm, Gorilla-Mountain, Jungle-Palace, and Mullewapp. Some smaller areas are Australia, the wooded area for wolves, and the so-called swimming area with many seabirds. There is also a tropical house, a jungle house, and a show arena. The new Canadian-themed area, Yukon Bay, opened in 2010. In 2010 the Hanover Zoo had over 1.6 million visitors. There is also the \"Sea Life Centre Hanover\", which is the first tropical aquarium in Germany.\n\nAnother point of interest is the \"Old Town\". In the centre are the large Marktkirche (Church St. Georgii et Jacobi, preaching venue of the bishop of the Lutheran Landeskirche Hannovers) and the \"Old Town Hall\". Nearby are the \"Leibniz House\", the \"Nolte House\", and the \"Beguine Tower\". The \"Kreuz-Church-Quarter\" around the \"Kreuz Church\" contains many little lanes. Nearby is the old royal sports hall, now called the \"Ballhof\" theatre. On the edge of the Old Town are the \"Market Hall\", the \"Leine Palace\", and the ruin of the \"Aegidien Church\" which is now a monument to the victims of war and violence. Through the \"Marstall Gate\" the bank of the river \"Leine\" can be reached; the \"Nanas\" of Niki de Saint Phalle are located here. They are part of the \"Mile of Sculptures\", which starts from Trammplatz, leads along the river bank, crosses Königsworther Square, and ends at the entrance of the Georgengarten. Near the Old Town is the district of Calenberger Neustadt where the Catholic Basilica Minor of \"St. Clemens\", the \"Reformed Church\" and the Lutheran Neustädter Hof- und Stadtkirche St. Johannis are located.\n\nSome other popular sights are the \"Waterloo Column\", the \"Laves House\", the \"Wangenheim Palace\", the \"Lower Saxony State Archives\", the \"Hanover Playhouse\", the \"Kröpcke Clock\", the \"Anzeiger Tower Block\", the \"Administration Building of the NORD/LB\", the \"Cupola Hall\" of the Congress Centre, the \"Lower Saxony Stock\", the \"Ministry of Finance\", the \"Garten Church\", the \"Luther Church\", the \"Gehry Tower\" (designed by the American architect Frank O. Gehry), the specially designed \"Bus Stops\", the \"Opera House\", \"the Central Station\", the \"Maschsee\" lake and the city forest \"Eilenriede\", which is one of the largest of its kind in Europe. With around 40 parks, forests and gardens, a couple of lakes, two rivers and one canal, Hanover offers a large variety of leisure activities.\n\nSince 2007 the historic \"Leibniz Letters\", which can be viewed in the \"Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Library\", are on UNESCO's Memory of the World Register.\n\nOutside the city centre is the \"EXPO-Park\", the former site of EXPO 2000. Some points of interest are the \"Planet M.\", the former \"German Pavillon\", some nations' vacant pavilions, the \"Expowale\", the \"EXPO-Plaza\" and the \"EXPO-Gardens\" (Parc Agricole, EXPO-Park South and the Gardens of change). The fairground can be reached by the \"Exponale\", one of the largest pedestrian bridges in Europe.\n\nThe \"Hanover fairground\" is the largest exhibition centre in the world.\nIt provides 496,000 square metres of covered indoor space, 58,000 square metres of open-air space, 27 halls and pavilions. Many of the Exhibition Centre's halls are architectural highlights. Furthermore, it offers the Convention Center with its 35 function rooms, glassed-in areas between halls, grassy park-like recreation zones and its own heliport. Two important sights on the fairground are the \"Hermes Tower\" (88.8 metres high) and the \"EXPO Roof\", the largest wooden roof in the world.\n\nIn the district of Anderten is the \"European Cheese Centre\", the only Cheese Experience Centre in Europe. Another tourist sight in Anderten is the \"Hindenburg Lock\", which was the biggest lock in Europe at the time of its construction in 1928. The \"Tiergarten\" (literally the \"animals' garden\") in the district of Kirchrode is a large forest originally used for deer and other game for the king's table.\n\nIn the district of Groß-Buchholz the 282-metre-high \"Telemax\" is located, which is the tallest building in Lower Saxony and the highest television tower in Northern Germany. Some other notable towers are the \"VW-Tower\" in the city centre and the old towers of the former middle-age defence belt: \"Döhrener Tower\", \"Lister Tower\" and the \"Horse Tower\".\n\nThe 36 most important sights of the city centre are connected with a -long red line, which is painted on the pavement. This so-called \"Red Thread\" marks out a walk that starts at the Tourist Information Office and ends on the Ernst-August-Square in front of the central station. There is also a guided sightseeing-bus tour through the city.\n\nHanover is headquarters for several Protestant organizations, including the World Communion of Reformed Churches, the Evangelical Church in Germany, the Reformed Alliance, the United Evangelical Lutheran Church of Germany, and the Independent Evangelical-Lutheran Church.\n\nIn 2015, 31.1% of the population were Protestant and 13.4% were Roman Catholic. The majority 55.5% were irreligious or other faith.\n\nThe \"Historic Museum\" describes the history of Hanover, from the medieval settlement \"Honovere\" to the world-famous Exhibition City of today. The museum focuses on the period from 1714 to 1834 when Hanover had a strong relationship with the British royal house.\n\nWith more than 4,000 members, the \"Kestnergesellschaft\" is the largest art society in Germany. The museum hosts exhibitions from classical modernist art to contemporary art. One big focus is put on film, video, contemporary music and architecture, room installments and big presentations of contemporary paintings, sculptures and video art.\n\nThe \"Kestner-Museum\" is located in the \"House of 5.000 windows\". The museum is named after August Kestner and exhibits 6,000 years of applied art in four areas: Ancient cultures, ancient Egypt, applied art and a valuable collection of historic coins.\n\nThe \"KUBUS\" is a forum for contemporary art. It features mostly exhibitions and projects of famous and important artists from Hanover.\n\nThe \"Kunstverein Hannover\" (Art Society Hanover) shows contemporary art and was established in 1832 as one of the first art societies in Germany. It is located in the \"Künstlerhaus\" (House of artists). There are around 7 international monografic and thematic Exhibitions in one year.\n\nThe \"Lower Saxony State Museum\" is the largest museum in Hanover. The \"State Gallery\" shows the European Art from the 11th to the 20th century, the \"Nature Department\" shows the zoology, geology, botanic, geology and a \"Vivarium\" with fishes, insects, reptiles and amphibians. The \"Primeval Department\" shows the primeval history of Lower Saxony and the \"Folklore Department\" shows the cultures from all over the world.\n\nThe \"Sprengel Museum\" shows the art of the 20th century. It is one of the most notable art museums in Germany. The focus is put on the classical modernist art with the collection of \"Kurt Schwitters\", works of German expressionism, and French cubism, the cabinet of abstracts, the graphics and the department of photography and media. Furthermore, the museum shows the famous works of the French artist Niki de Saint-Phalle.\n\nThe \"Theatre Museum\" shows an exhibition of the history of the theatre in Hanover from the 17th century up to now: opera, concert, drama and ballet. The museum also hosts several touring exhibitions during the year.\n\nThe \"Wilhelm Busch Museum\" is the \"German Museum of Caricature and Critical Graphic Arts\". The collection of the works of Wilhelm Busch and the extensive collection of cartoons and critical graphics is this museum unique in Germany. Furthermore, the museum hosts several exhibitions of national and international artists during the year.\n\nA cabinet of coins is the \"Münzkabinett der TUI-AG\". The \"Polizeigeschichtliche Sammlung Niedersachsen\" is the largest police museum in Germany. Textiles from all over the world can be visited in the \"Museum for textile art\". The \"EXPOseeum\" is the museum of the world-exhibition \"EXPO 2000 Hannover\". Carpets and objects from the orient can be visited in the \"Oriental Carpet Museum\". The \"Blind Man Museum\" is a rarity in Germany, another one is only in Berlin. The \"Museum of veterinary medicine\" is unique in Germany. The \"Museum for Energy History\" describes the 150 years old history of the application of energy. The \"Home Museum Ahlem\" shows the history of the district of Ahlem. The \"Mahn- und Gedenkstätte Ahlem\" describes the history of the Jewish people in Hanover and the \"Stiftung Ahlers Pro Arte / Kestner Pro Arte\" shows modern art. Modern art is also the main topic of the \"Kunsthalle Faust\", the \"Nord/LB Art Gellery\" and of the \"Foro Artistico / Eisfabrik\".\n\nSome leading art events in Hanover are the \"Long Night of the museums\" and the \"Zinnober Kunstvolkslauf\" which features all the galleries in Hanover.\n\nPeople who are interested in astronomy should visit the \"Observatory Geschwister Herschel\" on the Lindener Mountain or the small planetarium inside of the Bismarck School.\n\nAround 40 theatres are located in Hanover. The \"Opera House\", the \"Schauspielhaus\" (Play House), the \"Ballhof eins\", the \"Ballhof zwei\" and the \"Cumberlandsche Galerie\" belong to the \"Lower Saxony State Theatre\". The \"Theater am Aegi\" is Hanover's big theatre for musicals, shows and guest performances. The \"Neues Theater\" (New Theatre) is the boulevard theatre of Hanover. The \"Theater für Niedersachsen\" is another big theatre in Hanover, which also has an own musical company. Some of the most important musical productions are the rock musicals of the German rock musician Heinz Rudolph Kunze, which take place at the \"Garden-Theatre\" in the Great Garden.\n\nSome important theatre-events are the \"Tanztheater International\", the \"Long Night of the Theatres\", the \"Festival Theaterformen\" and the \"International Competition for Choreographs\".\n\nHanover's leading cabaret-stage is the \"GOP Variety theatre\" which is located in the \"Georgs Palace\". Some other famous cabaret-stages are the \"Variety Marlene\", the \"Uhu-Theatre\". the theatre \"Die Hinterbühne\", the \"Rampenlich Variety\" and the revue-stage \"TAK\". The most important cabaret event is the \"Kleines Fest im Großen Garten\" (Little Festival in the Great Garden) which is the most successful cabaret festival in Germany. It features artists from around the world. Some other important events are the \"Calenberger Cabaret Weeks\", the \"Hanover Cabaret Festival\" and the \"Wintervariety\".\n\nHanover has two symphony orchestras: The Lower Saxon State Orchestra Hanover and the NDR Radiophilharmonie (North German Radio Philharmonic Orchestra). Two notable choirs have their homes in Hanover: the Girls Choir Hanover (Mädchenchor Hannover) and the Knabenchor Hannover (Boys Choir Hanover).\n\nThere are/were two big international competitions for classical music in Hanover:\n\nThe rock bands Scorpions and Fury in the Slaughterhouse are originally from Hanover. Acclaimed DJ Mousse T also has his main recording studio in the area. Rick J. Jordan, member of the band Scooter was born here in 1968. Eurovision Song Contest winner of 2010, Lena, is also from Hanover.\n\nHannover 96 (nickname \"Die Roten\" or 'The Reds') is the top local football team that is again playing in the Bundesliga top division after being relegated to the 2. Bundesliga after the 2015–16 season. Home games are played at the HDI-Arena, which hosted matches in the 1974 and 2006 World Cups and the Euro 1988. Their reserve team Hannover 96 II plays in the fourth league. Their home games were played in the traditional Eilenriedestadium till they moved to the HDI Arena due to DFL directives. Arminia Hannover is another traditional soccer team in Hanover that has played in the first league for years and plays now in the Niedersachsen-West Liga (Lower Saxony League West). Home matches are played in the Rudolf-Kalweit-Stadium.\n\nThe Hannover Indians are the local ice hockey team. They play in the third tier. Their home games are played at the traditional Eisstadion am Pferdeturm. The Hannover Scorpions played in Hanover in Germany's top league until 2013 when they sold their license and moved to Langenhagen.\n\nHanover was one of the rugby union capitals in Germany. The first German rugby team was founded in Hanover in 1878. Hanover-based teams dominated the German rugby scene for a long time. DRC Hannover plays in the first division, and \"SV Odin von 1905\" as well as SG 78/08 Hannover play in the second division.\n\nThe first German fencing club was founded in Hanover in 1862. Today there are three additional fencing clubs in Hanover.\n\nThe Hannover Korbjäger are the city's top basketball team. They play their home games at the IGS Linden.\n\nHanover is a centre for water sports. Thanks to the Maschsee lake, the rivers Ihme and Leine and to the Mittellandkanal channel, Hanover hosts sailing schools, yacht schools, waterski clubs, rowing clubs, canoe clubs and paddle clubs. The water polo team WASPO W98 plays in the first division.\n\nThe Hannover Regents play in the third Bundesliga (baseball) division. The Hannover Grizzlies, Armina Spartans and Hannover Stampeders are the local American football teams.\n\nThe Hannover Marathon is the biggest running event in Hanover with more than 11,000 participants and usually around 200.000 spectators. Some other important running events are the Gilde Stadtstaffel (relay), the Sport-Check Nachtlauf (night-running), the Herrenhäuser Team-Challenge, the Hannoversche Firmenlauf (company running) and the Silvesterlauf (sylvester running).\n\nHanover also hosts an important international cycle race: The \"Nacht von Hannover\" (night of Hanover). The race takes place around the Market Hall.\n\nThe lake Maschsee hosts the International Dragon Boat Races and the Canoe Polo-Tournament. Many regattas take place during the year. \"Head of the river Leine\" on the river Leine is one of the biggest rowing regattas in Hanover. One of Germany's most successful dragon boat teams, the All Sports Team Hannover, which has won since its foundation in year 2000 more than 100 medals on national and international competitions, is doing practising on the Maschsee in the heart of Hannover. The All Sports Team has received the award \"Team of the Year 2013\" in Lower Saxony.\n\nSome other important sport events are the Lower Saxony Beach Volleyball Tournament, the international horse show \"German Classics\" and the international ice hockey tournament Nations Cup.\n\nHanover is one of the leading exhibition cities in the world. It hosts more than 60 international and national exhibitions every year. The most popular ones are the \"CeBIT\", the \"Hanover Fair\", the \"Domotex\", the \"Ligna\", the \"IAA Nutzfahrzeuge\" and the \"Agritechnica\". Hanover also hosts a huge number of congresses and symposiums like the \"International Symposium on Society and Resource Management.\"\n\nHanover is also host to the \"Schützenfest Hannover,\" the largest marksmen's fun fair in the world which takes place once a year (late June to early July) (2014 - July 4th to the 13th). Founded in 1529, it consists of more than 260 rides and inns, five large beer tents and a big entertainment programme. The highlight of this fun fair is the long \"Parade of the Marksmen\" with more than 12,000 participants from all over the world, including around 5,000 marksmen, 128 bands, and more than 70 wagons, carriages, and other festival vehicles. This makes it the longest procession in Europe. Around 2 million people visit this fun fair every year. The landmark of this fun fair is the biggest transportable Ferris wheel in the world, about ( high). \n\nHanover also hosts one of the two largest spring festivals in Europe, with around 180 rides and inns, 2 large beer tents, and around 1.5 million visitors each year. The Oktoberfest Hannover is the second largest Oktoberfest in the world with around 160 rides and inns, two large beer tents and around 1 million visitors each year.\n\nThe \"Maschsee Festival\" takes place around the Maschsee Lake. Each year around 2 million visitors come to enjoy live music, comedy, cabaret, and much more. It is the largest Volksfest of its kind in Northern Germany. The Great Garden hosts every year the \"International Fireworks Competition\", and the \"International Festival Weeks Herrenhausen,\" with music and cabaret performances. The \"Carnival Procession\" is around long and consists of 3.000 participants, around 30 festival vehicles and around 20 bands and takes place every year.\n\nOther festivals include the Festival \"Feuer und Flamme\" (Fire and Flames), the \"Gartenfestival\" (Garden Festival), the \"Herbstfestival\" (Autumn Festival), the \"Harley Days\", the \"Steintor Festival\" (Steintor is a party area in the city centre) and the \"Lister-Meile-Festival\" (Lister Meile is a large pedestrian area).\n\nHanover also hosts food-oriented festivals including the \"Wine Festival\" and the \"Gourmet Festival\". It also hosts some special markets. The \"Old Town Flea Market\" is the oldest flea market in Germany and the \"Market for Art and Trade\" has a high reputation. Some other major markets include the \"Christmas Markets of the City of Hanover\" in the Old Town and city centre, and the Lister Meile.\n\nThe city's central station, Hannover Hauptbahnhof, is a hub of the German high-speed ICE network. It is the starting point of the Hanover-Würzburg high-speed rail line and also the central hub for the Hanover S-Bahn. It offers many international and national connections.\n\nHanover and its area is served by Hanover/Langenhagen International Airport (IATA code: HAJ; ICAO code: EDDV)\n\nHanover is also an important hub of Germany's Autobahn network; the junction of two major autobahns, the A2 and A7 is at \"Kreuz Hannover-Ost\", at the northeastern edge of the city.\n\nLocal autobahns are A 352 (a short cut between A7 [north] and A2 [west], also known as the \"airport autobahn\" because it passes \"Hanover Airport\") and the A 37.\n\nThe Schnellweg \"(en: expressway)\" system, a number of Bundesstraße roads, forms a structure loosely resembling a large ring road together with A2 and A7. The roads are B 3, B 6 and Bundesstraße 65|B 65, called Westschnellweg (B6 on the northern part, B3 on the southern part), Messeschnellweg (B3, becomes A37 near Burgdorf, crosses A2, becomes B3 again, changes to B6 at \"Seelhorster Kreuz\", then passes the Hanover fairground as B6 and becomes A37 again before merging into A7) and Südschnellweg (starts out as B65, becomes B3/B6/B65 upon crossing \"Westschnellweg\", then becomes B65 again at \"Seelhorster Kreuz\").\n\nHanover has an extensive Stadtbahn and bus system, operated by üstra. The city is famous for its designer buses and tramways, the TW 6000 and TW 2000 trams being the most well-known examples.\n\nCycle paths are very common in the city centre. At off-peak hours you are allowed to take your bike on a tram or bus.\n\nVarious industrial businesses are located in Hannover. The Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles Transporter (VWN) factory at Hannover-Stöcken is the biggest employer in the region and operates a huge plant at the northern edge of town adjoining the Mittellandkanal and Motorway A2. Volkswagen shares a coal-burning power plant with a factory of German tire and automobile parts manufacturer Continental AG. Continental AG, founded in Hanover in 1871, is one of the city's major companies. Since 2008 a take-over has been in progress: the Schaeffler Group from Herzogenaurach (Bavaria) holds the majority of Continental's stock but were required due to the financial crisis to deposit the options as securities at banks.\n\nThe audio equipment company Sennheiser and the travel group TUI AG are both based in Hanover. Hanover is home to many insurance companies including Talanx, VHV Group, and Concordia Insurance. The major global reinsurance company is Hannover Re also has its headquarters east of the city centre.\n\nIn 2012, the city generated a GDP of €29.5 billion, which is equivalent to €74,822 per employee. The gross value of production in 2012 was €26.4 billion, which is equivalent to €66,822 per employee.\nAround 300,000 employees were counted in 2014. Of these, 189,000 had their primary residence in Hanover, while 164,892 commute into the city every day.\n\nIn 2014 the city was home to 34,198 businesses, of which 9,342 were registered in the German Trade Register and 24,856 counted as small businesses. Hence, more than half of the metropolitan area's businesses in the German Trade Register are located in Hanover (17,485 total).\nHannoverimpuls GMBH is a joint business development company from the city and region of Hannover. The company was founded in 2003 and supports the start-up, growth and relocation of businesses in the Hannover Region. The focus is on seven sectors, which stand for sustainable economic growth: Automotive, Energy Solutions, Information and Communications Technology, Life Sciences, Optical Technologies, Creative Industries and Production Engineering.\n\nA range of programmes supports companies from the key industries in their expansion plans in Hannover or abroad. Three regional centres specifically promote international economic relations with Russia, India and Turkey.\n\nThe Leibniz University Hannover is the largest funded institution in Hanover for providing higher education to the students from around the world. Below are the names of the universities and some of the important schools, including newly opened Hannover Medical Research School in 2003 for attracting the students from biology background from around the world.\n\nThere are several universities in Hanover:\nThere is one University of Applied Science and Arts in Hanover:\n\nThe \"Schulbiologiezentrum Hannover\" maintains practical biology schools in four locations (Botanischer Schulgarten Burg, Freiluftschule Burg, Zooschule Hannover, and Botanischer Schulgarten Linden). The University of Veterinary Medicine Hanover also maintains its own botanical garden specializing in medicinal and poisonous plants, the Heil- und Giftpflanzengarten der Tierärztlichen Hochschule Hannover.\n\nThe following is a selection of famous Hanover-natives, personalities connected with the city and honorary citizens:\n\nHanover is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43658016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43658016", "title": "History of trauma and orthopaedics", "text": "History of trauma and orthopaedics\n\nSeveral volumes of the Hippocratic Corpus, \"Articulations or On Joints, On Fractures, On the Instruments of Reduction\" discuss Ancient Greek medicine relating to orthopaedics, and Hippocrates is credited with a method of reduction of a dislocated shoulder.\n\n16th century Spanish texts talk about the Aztecs use of reduction of fractures, as well intramedullary fixation using fir branches.\n\nPeter Lowe was the first surgeon to use the term amputation in his 1597 book \"A discourse of the Whole Art of Chirurgerie\".\n\nNicolas Andry has been credited with the term 'orthopaedics', taken from the title of his 1741 book \"Orthopédie\" on childhood deformity correction. The frontispiece of the book bore an engraving of a sapling being splinted with a stake, a symbol now referred to as the Tree of Andry and adopted by many orthopaedic associations internationally.\n\nIn 1768, Percivall Pott published his book \"Some Few Remarks upon Fractures and Dislocations\" following his compound femoral fracture on the use of splinting to avoid amputation. Pott's student, John Hunter, expanded on the knowledge of bone healing.\n\nAround the same time, Jean-André Venel published his work \"Orthopaedia, or the Art of Preventing and Correcting Deformities in Children\", one of the first surgeons to discuss the practical application for treating congenital deformities.\n\nEven after the Medical Act 1858 , bonesetters continued to practice unlicensed within England, with one of the last being Evan Thomas. His son, Hugh Owen Thomas, is considered by many to be the father of modern orthopaedics in the UK, with many published works such as \"Diseases of the hip, knee and ankle joints (1876), Principles of the treatment of diseased joints (1883), The principles of the treatment of fractures and dislocations (1886), Fractures, dislocations, diseases and deformities of the bones of the trunk and upper extremities (1887) and Fractures, dislocations, deformities and diseases of the lower extremities (1890)\"'. The use of his traction splint during the First World War lead to a dramatic reduction in the mortality following femoral fractures.\n\nThomas' nephew, Robert Jones continued his work, and was the first person to publish on the use of radiography in orthopaedics.\n\nThe developing field of orthopaedics was originally focused on deformities in children, and subsequently adults. The involvement of orthopaedics in trauma care developed in the course of World War I, the interwar period, and World War II. It was not until after World War II that orthopaedics became the dominant field treating fractures in much of the world.\n\nLater in the 20th century, John Charnley pioneered hip replacement, as well as published on the conservative treatment of fractures.\n\n"}
{"id": "54777118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54777118", "title": "Irina Antanasijević", "text": "Irina Antanasijević\n\nIrina Antanasijević (, ; 27 June 1965) is a Russian and Serbian philologist, literary critic, and translator. She received her Doctor of philological sciences degree in 2002 and has been a professor of Russian literature at Philology Faculty of University in Belgrade since 2004. Her scholarly interests include folklore and post-folklore, visual literature and visual text, poetics of comics, illustration, children's literature, and history of Russian emigration studies.\n\nBorn in the city of Sievierodonetsk, Luhansk Oblast, Ukrainian SSR, USSR. After arriving to Yugoslavia she lived in Split, and since 1991 till 1999 in Priština. She worked as lecturer, and then as an assistant for Russian literature at Philology Faculty in Priština. She defended her thesis “Landscape in Russian and Serbian Epic” during the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia in 1999.\n\nShe left Priština after the signing of Kumanovo Agreement (June 1999) and moved to Niš. She worked as professor of Russian literature at Philosophy Faculty in Niš and continued to work at Philosophy Faculty in Priština (with the seat in Kosovska Mitrovica). In 2002 she defended doctoral thesis „Poetics of Dirge“. She initiated opening of the Department for Slavistics with Balcanistics at Philology Faculty in Niš (since 2002 Department for Russian language and literature).\n\nProfessor of Russian literature at Philology Faculty of University in Belgrade. Member of Editorial Board of journal \"Gradina\" until 2009. Member of Editorial Board of periodical \"Facta universitatis\" until 2010. Member of Editorial Board of periodical \"Научный результат, Серия Социальные и гуманитарные исследования\" (Scientific Result, Series of Social and Humanitarian Studies).\n\nMonographs\n\nDictionaries\n\nTextbooks and manuals\n\n"}
{"id": "733843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=733843", "title": "Karen Armstrong", "text": "Karen Armstrong\n\nKaren Armstrong, (born 14 November 1944) is a British author and commentator of Irish Catholic descent known for her books on comparative religion. A former Roman Catholic religious sister, she went from a conservative to a more liberal and mystical Christian faith. She attended St Anne's College, Oxford, while in the convent and majored in English. She became disillusioned and left the convent in 1969. Her work focuses on commonalities of the major religions, such as the importance of compassion and the Golden Rule.\n\nArmstrong received the US$100,000 TED Prize in February 2008. She used that occasion to call for the creation of a \"Charter for Compassion\", which was unveiled the following year.\n\nArmstrong was born at Wildmoor, Worcestershire, into a family of Irish ancestry who, after her birth, moved to Bromsgrove and later to Birmingham. In 1962, at the age of 18, she became a member of the Sisters of the Holy Child Jesus, a teaching congregation, in which she remained for seven years. Armstrong claims she suffered physical and psychological abuse in the convent; according to an article in \"The Guardian\" newspaper, \"Armstrong was required to mortify her flesh with whips and wear a spiked chain around her arm. When she spoke out of turn, she claims she was forced to sew at a treadle machine with no needle for a fortnight.\"\n\nOnce she had advanced from postulant and novice to professed nun, she enrolled in St Anne's College, Oxford, to study English. Armstrong left her order in 1969 while still a student at Oxford. After graduating with a Congratulatory First, she embarked on a DPhil on the poet Tennyson. According to Armstrong, she wrote her dissertation on a topic that had been approved by the university committee. Nevertheless, it was failed by her external examiner on the grounds that the topic had been unsuitable. Armstrong did not formally protest this verdict, nor did she embark upon a new topic but instead abandoned hope of an academic career. She reports that this period in her life was marked by ill-health stemming from her lifelong but, at that time, still undiagnosed temporal lobe epilepsy.\n\nAround this time she was lodged with Jenifer and Herbert Hart, looking after their disabled son, as told in her memoir \"The Spiral Staircase\".\n\nIn 1976, Armstrong took a job teaching English at James Allen's Girls' School in Dulwich while working on a memoir of her convent experiences. This was published in 1982 as \"Through the Narrow Gate\" to excellent reviews. That year she embarked on a new career as an independent writer and broadcasting presenter. In 1984, the British Channel Four commissioned her to write and present a television documentary on the life of St. Paul, \"The First Christian\", a project that involved traveling to the Holy Land to retrace the steps of the saint. Armstrong described this visit as a \"breakthrough experience\" that defied her prior assumptions and provided the inspiration for virtually all her subsequent work. In \"A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam\" (1993), she traces the evolution of the three major monotheistic traditions from their beginnings in the Middle East up to the present day and also discusses Hinduism and Buddhism. As guiding \"luminaries\" in her approach, Armstrong acknowledges (in \"The Spiral Staircase\" and elsewhere) the late Canadian theologian Wilfred Cantwell Smith, a Protestant minister, and the Jesuit father Bernard Lonergan. In 1996, she published \"Jerusalem: One City, Three Faiths\".\n\nArmstrong's \"The Great Transformation: The Beginning of Our Religious Traditions\" (2006) continues the themes covered in \"A History of God\" and examines the emergence and codification of the world's great religions during the so-called Axial age identified by Karl Jaspers. In the year of its publication Armstrong was invited to choose her eight favourite records for BBC Radio's \"Desert Island Discs\" programme. She has made several appearances on television, including on Rageh Omaar's programme \"The Life of Muhammad\". She was an advisor for the award-winning, PBS-broadcast documentary \"\" (2002), produced by Unity Productions Foundation.\n\nIn 2007 the Islamic Religious Council of Singapore invited Armstrong to deliver the MUIS Lecture.\n\nArmstrong is a fellow of the Jesus Seminar, a group of scholars and laypeople which attempts to investigate the historical foundations of Christianity. She has written numerous articles for \"The Guardian\" and for other publications. She was a key advisor on Bill Moyers' popular PBS series on religion, has addressed members of the United States Congress, and was one of three scholars to speak at the UN's first ever session on religion. She is a vice-president of the British Epilepsy Association, otherwise known as Epilepsy Action.\n\nArmstrong, who has taught courses at Leo Baeck College, a rabbinical college and centre for Jewish education located in North London, says she has been particularly inspired by the Jewish tradition's emphasis on practice as well as faith: \"I say that religion isn't about believing things. It's about what you do. It's ethical alchemy. It's about behaving in a way that changes you, that gives you intimations of holiness and sacredness.\" She maintains that religious fundamentalism is not just a response to, but is a product of contemporary culture and for this reason concludes that, \"We urgently need to make compassion a clear, luminous and dynamic force in our polarized world. Rooted in a principled determination to transcend selfishness, compassion can break down political, dogmatic, ideological and religious boundaries. Born of our deep interdependence, compassion is essential to human relationships and to a fulfilled humanity. It is the path to enlightenment, and indispensable to the creation of a just economy and a peaceful global community.\"\n\nAwarded the $100,000 TED Prize in February 2008, Armstrong called for drawing up a \"Charter for Compassion\", in the spirit of the Golden Rule, to identify shared moral priorities across religious traditions, in order to foster global understanding and a peaceful world. It was presented in Washington, D.C. in November 2009. Signatories include Queen Noor of Jordan, the Dalai Lama, Archbishop Desmond Tutu and Paul Simon.\n\nIn 1999 Armstrong received the Muslim Public Affairs Council's Media Award.\n\nArmstrong was honoured by the New York Open Center in 2004 for her \"profound understanding of religious traditions and their relation to the divine.\"\n\nShe received an honorary degree as Doctor of Letters by Aston University in 2006.\n\nIn May 2008 she was awarded the Freedom of Worship Award by the Roosevelt Institute, one of four medals presented each year to men and women whose achievements have demonstrated a commitment to the Four Freedoms proclaimed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1941 as essential to democracy: freedom of speech and of worship, freedom from want and from fear. The institute stated that Armstrong had become \"a significant voice, seeking mutual understanding in times of turbulence, confrontation and violence among religious groups.\" It cited \"her personal dedication to the ideal that peace can be found in religious understanding, for her teachings on compassion, and her appreciation for the positive sources of spirituality.\"\n\nShe also received the TED Prize 2008.\n\nIn 2009 she was awarded the Dr. Leopold Lucas Prize by the University of Tübingen.\n\nArmstrong was honoured with the Nationalencyklopedin's International Knowledge Award 2011 \"for her long standing work of bringing knowledge to others about the significance of religion to humankind and, in particular, for pointing out the similarities between religions. Through a series of books and award-winning lectures she reaches out as a peace-making voice at a time when world events are becoming increasingly linked to religion.\"\n\nOn 12 May 2010, she was made honorary Doctor of Divinity by Queen's University (Kingston, Ontario).\n\nOn 30 November 2011 (St Andrew's Day), Armstrong was made honorary Doctor of Letters by the University of Saint Andrews.\n\nIn 2013, she was awarded the Nayef Al-Rodhan Prize for Global Cultural Understanding by the British Academy \"in recognition of her body of work that has made a significant contribution to understanding the elements of overlap and commonality in different cultures and religions\".\n\nOn 3 June 2014, she was made an honorary Doctor of Divinity by McGill University.\n\nIn 2017 Armstrong was bestowed Princess of Asturias award in recognition of her investigations into world religions.\n\nArmstrong has been called \"a prominent and prolific religious historian\" by \"The Washington Post\" and described as \"arguably the most lucid, wide-ranging and consistently interesting religion writer today\". Juan Eduardo Campo, author of the \"Encyclopedia of Islam (Encyclopedia of World Religions)\" (2009), included Armstrong among a group of scholars whom he considered as currently conveying a \"more or less objective\" (as opposed to polemical) view of Islam and its origins to a wide public in Europe and North America. After the September 11 attacks she was in great demand as a lecturer, pleading for inter-faith dialogue.\n\nThe New Atheist activist Sam Harris criticizes Armstrong's \"benign\" view of Islam, contending that \"Islam, as it is currently understood and practiced by vast numbers of the world's Muslims, is antithetical to civil society.\" Harris is also strongly critical of Armstrong's \"religious apology\" of Islamic fundamentalism, accusing her and like-minded scholars of political correctness. Armstrong has also attracted the criticism of the evangelical Christian philosopher and apologist William Lane Craig. In Craig's response to a debate between Armstrong and the evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins published in the 12 September 2009 issue of \"The Wall Street Journal\", Craig criticizes Armstrong's \"anti-realist\" views about statements concerning God, particularly her assertion that \"'God' is merely a symbol that points beyond itself to an indescribable transcendence.\" Craig argues that Armstrong's view of God as ineffable is \"self-refuting\" and \"logically incoherent\". Craig also disputes Armstrong's characterization of the religious views of early Christians.\n\nIn 2014, Armstrong commented on comedian Bill Maher's criticism of Islam by telling \"Salon\" \"this is the sort of talk that led to the concentration camps in Europe. This is the kind of thing people were saying about Jews in the 1930s and '40s in Europe.\" Maher responded to Armstrong's comments by telling \"Vanity Fair\", \"It’s beyond stupid. Jews weren’t oppressing anybody. There weren’t 5,000 militant Jewish groups. They didn’t do a study of treatment of women around the world and find that the Jews were at the bottom of it. There weren’t 10 Jewish countries in the world that were putting gay people to death just for being gay. It’s idiotic.\" After that Armstrong reiterated her criticism of Maher by telling \"The New York Times\", \"My problem with some current critics of Islam is that their criticism is neither accurate, fair, nor well-informed. I am sure they do not intend this, but in the 1930s and '40s in Europe, we learned how dangerous and ultimately destructive this kind of discourse could be.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59056", "title": "Kobe", "text": "Kobe\n\nThe earliest written records regarding the region come from the \"Nihon Shoki\", which describes the founding of the Ikuta Shrine by Empress Jingū in AD 201. For most of its history, the area was never a single political entity, even during the Tokugawa period, when the port was controlled directly by the Tokugawa shogunate. Kobe did not exist in its current form until its founding in 1889. Its name comes from . Kobe became one of Japan's designated cities in 1956.\n\nKobe was one of the cities to open for trade with the West following the 1853 end of the policy of seclusion and has since been known as a cosmopolitan and nuclear-free zone port city. While the 1995 Great Hanshin earthquake diminished much of Kobe's prominence as a port city, it remains Japan's fourth-busiest container port. Companies headquartered in Kobe include ASICS, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, and Kobe Steel, as well as over 100 international corporations with Asian or Japanese headquarters in the city, such as Eli Lilly and Company, Procter & Gamble, Boehringer Ingelheim, and Nestlé. The city is the point of origin and namesake of Kobe beef, as well as the site of one of Japan's most famous hot spring resorts, Arima Onsen.\n\nTools found in western Kobe demonstrate the area was populated at least from the Jōmon period. The natural geography of the area, particularly of Wada Cape in Hyōgo-ku, led to the development of a port, which would remain the economic center of the city. Some of the earliest written documents mentioning the region include the \"Nihon Shoki\", which describes the founding of the Ikuta Shrine by Empress Jingū in AD 201.\n\nDuring the Nara and Heian periods, the port was known by the name and was one of the ports from which imperial embassies to China were dispatched. The city was briefly the capital of Japan in 1180, when Taira no Kiyomori moved his grandson Emperor Antoku to Fukuhara in present-day Hyōgo-ku. The Emperor returned to Kyoto after about five months. Shortly thereafter in 1184, the Taira fortress in Hyōgo-ku and the nearby Ikuta Shrine became the sites of the Genpei War battle of Ichi-no-Tani between the Taira and Minamoto clans. The Minamoto prevailed, pushing the Taira further.\n\nAs the port grew during the Kamakura period, it became an important hub for trade with China and other countries. In the 13th century, the city came to be known by the name . During this time, Hyōgo Port, along with northern Osaka, composed the province of Settsu (most of today's Kobe belonged to Settsu except Nishi Ward and Tarumi Ward, which belonged to Harima).\n\nLater, during the Edo period, the eastern parts of present-day Kobe came under the jurisdiction of the Amagasaki Domain and the western parts under that of the Akashi Domain, while the center was controlled directly by the Tokugawa shogunate. It was not until the abolition of the han system in 1871 and the establishment of the current prefecture system that the area became politically distinct.\n\nHyōgo Port was opened to foreign trade by the Shogunal government at the same time as Osaka on January 1, 1868, just before the advent of the Boshin War and the Meiji Restoration. The region has since been identified with the West and many foreign residences from the period remain in Kobe's Kitano area.\n\nKobe, as it is known today, was founded on April 1, 1889, and was designated on September 1, 1956 by government ordinance. The history of the city is closely tied to that of the Ikuta Shrine, and the name \"Kobe\" derives from , an archaic name for those who supported the shrine.\n\nDuring World War II, Kobe was bombed in the Doolittle Raid on April 18, 1942, along with Tokyo and a few other cities. Eventually, it was bombed again with incendiary bombs by B-29 bombers on March 17, 1945, causing the death of 8,841 residents and destroying 21% of Kobe's urban area. This incident inspired the well-known Studio Ghibli film \"Grave of the Fireflies\" and the book by Akiyuki Nosaka on which the film was based.\n\nFollowing continuous pressure from citizens, on March 18, 1975, the Kobe City Council passed an ordinance banning vessels carrying nuclear weapons from Kobe Port. This effectively prevented any U.S. warships from entering the port, policy being not to disclose whether any warship is carrying nuclear weapons. This nonproliferation policy has been termed the \"Kobe formula\".\n\nOn January 17, 1995, a magnitude 6.9 earthquake occurred at 5:46 am JST near the city. About 6,434 people in the city were killed, 212,443 were made homeless, and large parts of the port facilities and other parts of the city were destroyed. The earthquake destroyed portions of the Hanshin Expressway, an elevated freeway that dramatically toppled over. In Japan, the earthquake is known as the Great Hanshin earthquake (or the Hanshin-Awaji earthquake). To commemorate Kobe's recovery from the 1995 quake, the city holds an event every December called the Luminarie, where the city center is decorated with illuminated metal archways.\n\nThe Port of Kobe was Japan's busiest port and one of Asia's top ports until the Great Hanshin earthquake. Kobe has since dropped to fourth in Japan and 49th-busiest container port worldwide ().\n\nWedged between the coast and the mountains, the city of Kobe is long and narrow. To the east is the city of Ashiya, while the city of Akashi lies to its west. Other adjacent cities include Takarazuka and Nishinomiya to the east and Sanda and Miki to the north.\n\nThe landmark of the port area is the red steel Port Tower. A Ferris wheel sits in nearby Harborland, a notable tourist promenade. Two artificial islands, Port Island and Rokkō Island, have been constructed to give the city room to expand.\n\nAway from the seaside at the heart of Kobe lie the Motomachi and Sannomiya districts, as well as Kobe's Chinatown, Nankinmachi, all well-known retail areas. A multitude of train lines cross the city from east to west. The main transport hub is Sannomiya Station, with the eponymous Kobe Station located to the west and the Shinkansen Shin-Kobe Station to the north.\n\nMount Rokkō overlooks Kobe at an elevation of 931 meters. During the autumn season, it is famous for the rich change in colors of its forests.\n\nKobe has nine wards (\"ku\"):\n\nKobe has a humid subtropical climate (Köppen climate classification \"Cfa\") with hot summers and cool to cold winters. Precipitation is significantly higher in summer than in winter, though on the whole lower than most parts of Honshū, and there is no significant snowfall.\n\nAs of September 2007, Kobe has an estimated population of 1,530,295 making up 658,876 households. This is an increase of 1,347 persons or approximately 0.1 percent over the previous year. The population density is approximately 2,768 persons per square kilometre, while there are about 90.2 males to every 100 females. About thirteen percent of the population are between the ages of 0 and 14, sixty-seven percent are between 15 and 64, and twenty percent are over the age of 65.\n\nApproximately 44,000 registered foreign nationals live in Kobe. The four most common nationalities are Korean (22,237), Chinese (12,516), Vietnamese (1,301), and American (1,280).\n\nThe Port of Kobe is both an important port and manufacturing center within the Hanshin Industrial Region. Kobe is the busiest container port in the region, surpassing even Osaka, and the fourth-busiest in Japan.\n\n, the city's total real GDP was ¥6.3 trillion, which amounts to thirty-four percent of the GDP for Hyōgo Prefecture and approximately eight percent for the whole Kansai region. Per capita income for the year was approximately ¥2.7 million. Broken down by sector, about one percent of those employed work in the primary sector (agriculture, fishing and mining), twenty-one percent work in the secondary sector (manufacturing and industry), and seventy-eight percent work in the service sector.\n\nThe value of manufactured goods produced and exported from Kobe for 2004 was ¥2.5 trillion. The four largest sectors in terms of value of goods produced are small appliances, food products, transportation equipment, and communication equipment making up over fifty percent of Kobe's manufactured goods. In terms of numbers of employees, food products, small appliances, and transportation equipment make up the three largest sectors.\n\nThe GDP in Kobe Metropolitan Employment Area (2.4 million people) is US$96.0 billion in 2010.\n\nJapanese companies which have their headquarters in Kobe include ASICS, a shoe manufacturer; Daiei, a department store chain; Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Kawasaki Shipbuilding Co., Mitsubishi Motors, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (ship manufacturer), Mitsubishi Electric, Kobe Steel, Sumitomo Rubber Industries, Sysmex Corporation (medical devices manufacturer) and TOA Corporation. Other companies include the confectionery manufacturers Konigs-Krone and Morozoff Ltd., Sun Television Japan and UCC Ueshima Coffee Co.\n\nThere are over 100 international corporations that have their East Asian or Japanese headquarters in Kobe. Of these, twenty-four are from China, eighteen from the United States, and nine from Switzerland. Some prominent corporations include Eli Lilly and Company, Nestlé, Procter & Gamble, Tempur-Pedic, Boehringer-Ingelheim, and Toys \"R\" Us. In 2018, April, Swift Engineering USA, an American aerospace engineering firm established their joint venture in Kobe called Swift Xi Inc.\n\nKobe is the site of a number of research institutes, such as the RIKEN Kobe Institute Center for developmental biology and medical imaging techniques, and Advanced Institute for Computational Science (AICS, home of the K supercomputer), the National Institute of Information and Communications Technology (NICT) Advanced ICT Research Institute, the National Research Institute for Earth Science and Disaster Prevention, and the Asian Disaster Reduction Center.\n\nInternational organizations include the WHO Centre for Health Development, an intergovernmental agency forming part of the World Health Organization. The Consulate-General of Panama in Kobe is located on the eighth floor of the Moriyama Building in Chūō-ku, Kobe.\n\nOsaka International Airport in nearby Itami and Kobe Airport, built on a reclaimed island south of Port Island, offer mainly domestic flights, while Kansai International Airport in Osaka is the main international hub in the area.\n\nSannomiya Station is the main commuter hub in Kobe, serving as the transfer point for the three major intercity rail lines (see external map). The JR Kobe Line connects Kobe to Osaka and Himeji while both the Hankyū Kobe Line and the Hanshin Main Line run from Kobe to Umeda Station in Osaka. In addition, Kobe Municipal Subway provides access to the Sanyō Shinkansen at Shin-Kobe Station. Sanyō Electric Railway trains from Himeji reach Sannomiya via the Kobe Rapid Railway.\n\nOther rail lines in Kobe include Kōbe Electric Railway which runs north to Sanda and Arima Onsen. Hokushin Kyūkō Railway connects Shin-Kobe Station to Tanigami Station on the Kobe Electric Railway. Kobe New Transit runs two lines, the Port Island Line from Sannomiya to Kobe Airport and the Rokko Island Line from JR Sumiyoshi Station to Rokko Island.\n\nOver Mount Rokkō, the city has two funicular lines and three aerial lifts as well, namely Maya Cablecar, Rokkō Cable Line, Rokkō Arima Ropeway, Maya Ropeway, and Shin-Kobe Ropeway.\n\nKobe is a hub in a number of expressways, including the Meishin Expressway (Nagoya – Kobe) and the Hanshin Expressway (Osaka – Kobe). Other expressways include the Sanyō Expressway (Kobe – Yamaguchi) and the Chūgoku Expressway (Osaka – Yamaguchi).\nThe Kobe-Awaji-Naruto Expressway runs from Kobe to Naruto via Awaji Island and includes the Akashi Kaikyō Bridge, the longest suspension bridge in the world.\n\nThe city of Kobe directly administers 169 elementary and 81 middle schools, with enrollments of approximately 80,200 and 36,000 students, respectively. If the city's four private elementary schools and fourteen private middle schools are included, these figures jump to a total 82,000 elementary school students and 42,300 junior high students enrolled for the 2006 school year.\n\nKobe also directly controls six of the city's twenty-five full-time public high schools including Fukiai High School and Rokkō Island High School. The remainder are administered by the Hyogo Prefectural Board of Education. In addition, twenty-five high schools are run privately within the city. The total enrollment for high schools in 2006 was 43,400.\n\nKobe is home to eighteen public and private universities, including Kobe University, Kobe Institute of Computing and Konan University, and eight junior colleges. Students enrolled for 2006 reached 67,000 and 4,100, respectively. Kobe is also home to 17 Japanese language schools for international students, including the international training group Lexis Japan.\n\nInternational schools serve both long-term foreign residents and expatriates living in Kobe and the Kansai region. The schools offer instruction in English, German, Chinese, or Korean. There are three English-language international schools: Canadian Academy, Marist Brothers International School, and St. Michael's International School.\n\nKobe is most famous for its Kobe beef and Arima Onsen (hot springs). Notable buildings include the Ikuta Shrine as well as the Kobe Port Tower. It is well known for the night view of the city, from mountains such as Mount Rokkō, and Mount Maya as well as the coast. Kobe is also known for having a somewhat exotic atmosphere by Japanese standards, which is mainly as a result of its history as a port city.\n\nThe city is widely associated with cosmopolitanism and fashion, encapsulated in the Japanese phrase, \"If you can't go to Paris, go to Kobe.\" The biannual fashion event Kobe Fashion Week, centered around the Kobe Collection is held in Kobe. The jazz festival \"Kobe Jazz Street\" has been held every October at jazz clubs and hotels since 1981.\n\nKobe is the site of Japan's first golf course, Kobe Golf Club, established by Arthur Hesketh Groom in 1903, and Japan's first mosque, Kobe Mosque, built in 1935. The city hosts the Kobe Regatta & Athletic Club, founded in 1870 by Alexander Cameron Sim, and a prominent foreign cemetery. A number of Western-style residences – – from the 19th century still stand in Kitano and elsewhere in Kobe. Museums include the Kobe City Museum and Museum of Literature.\n\nThe dialect spoken in Kobe is called \"Kobe-ben\", a sub-dialect of Kansai dialect. It is famous for a perfect tense -\"too\" and a progressive tense -\"yoo\" instead of Osakan form -\"toru\" and standard form -\"teiru\".\n\nKobe played host to the 1991 Men's Asian Basketball Championship, which was the qualifier for the 1992 Summer Olympics Basketball Tournament.\nKobe was one of the host cities of the 2002 FIFA World Cup, hosting matches at Noevir Stadium Kobe (then known as Wing Stadium Kobe), which was renovated to increase its capacity to 40,000 for the event. \nKobe was one of the host cities for the official 2006 Women's Volleyball World Championship.\n\nKobe has a total of ten sister cities, friendship cities, and friendship and cooperation cities. They are:\n\n\nKobe's sister ports are:\n\nOther city affiliations:\n\n"}
{"id": "48418614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48418614", "title": "Kultura Popullore", "text": "Kultura Popullore\n\nKultura Popullore (Folkloric Culture) is a quarterly magazine published in Tirana, Albania by the Centre of Albanological Studies. It publishes scientific articles on different fields of Albanian ethnography and folklore.\n\nThe magazine started in 1980, as one of scientific magazines of the Albanian Academy of Sciences, specifically the Institute of Folkloric Culture, established in 1979 by merging the former Institute of Folklore with the Ethnography Section of the Institute of History, both branches of the Academy of Science.\n<br>With the creation of the Centre of Albanological Studies in 1980, the Institute of Folkloric Culture merged into it and disaffiliated with the Academy, carrying over all its periodicals.\n\n"}
{"id": "17121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17121", "title": "Kurt Schwitters", "text": "Kurt Schwitters\n\nKurt Hermann Eduard Karl Julius Schwitters (20 June 1887 – 8 January 1948) was a German artist who was born in Hanover, Germany.\nSchwitters worked in several genres and media, including dadaism, constructivism, surrealism, poetry, sound, painting, sculpture, graphic design, typography, and what came to be known as installation art. He is most famous for his collages, called \"Merz Pictures\".\n\nKurt Schwitters was born on 20 June 1887 in Hanover, at Rumannstraße No.2, now: No. 8, the only child of Eduard Schwitters and his wife Henriette (née Beckemeyer). His father was (co-)proprietor of a ladies' clothes shop. The business was sold in 1898, and the family used the money to buy some properties in Hanover, which they rented out, allowing the family to live off the income for the rest of Schwitters' life in Germany. In 1893, the family moved to Waldstraße (later Waldhausenstraße) 5, future site of the \"Merzbau\". In 1901, Schwitters suffered his first epileptic seizure, a condition that would exempt him from military service in World War I until late in the war, when conscription was loosened.\n\nAfter studying art at the Dresden Academy alongside Otto Dix and George Grosz, (although Schwitters seems to have been unaware of their work, or indeed of contemporary Dresden artists Die Brücke), 1909–1915, Schwitters returned to Hanover and started his artistic career as a post-impressionist. In 1911 he took part in his first exhibition, in Hanover. As the First World War progressed his work became darker, gradually developing a distinctive expressionist tone.\n\nSchwitters spent the last one-and-half years of the war working as a drafter in a factory just outside Hanover. He was conscripted into the 73rd Hanoverian Regiment in March 1917, but exempted on medical grounds in June of the same year. By his own account, his time as a draftsman influenced his later work, and inspired him to depict machines as metaphors of human activity.\n\n\"In the war [at the machine factory at Wülfen] I discovered my love for the wheel and realized that machines are abstractions of the human spirit.\"\nHe married his cousin Helma Fischer on 5 October 1915. Their first son, Gerd, died within a week of birth, 9 September 1916; their second, Ernst, was born on 16 November 1918, and was to remain close to his father for the rest of his life, up to and including a shared exile in Britain together.\n\nIn 1918, his art was to change dramatically as a direct consequence of Germany's economic, political, and military collapse at the end of the First World War.\n\n\"In the war, things were in terrible turmoil. What I had learned at the academy was of no use to me and the useful new ideas were still unready... Everything had broken down and new things had to be made out of the fragments; and this is Merz. It was like a revolution within me, not as it was, but as it should have been.\"\nSchwitters was to come into contact with Herwarth Walden after exhibiting expressionist paintings at the Hanover Secession in February 1918. He showed two \"Abstraktionen\" (semi-abstract expressionist landscapes) at Walden's gallery Der Sturm, in Berlin, in June 1918. This resulted in meetings with members of the Berlin Avant-garde, including Raoul Hausmann, Hannah Höch, and Hans Arp in the autumn of 1918.\n\n\"[I remember] the night he introduced himself in the Café des Westens. \"I'm a painter,\" he said, \"and I nail my pictures together.\" Raoul Hausmann\n\nWhilst Schwitters still created work in an expressionist style into 1919 (and would continue to paint realist pictures up to his death in 1948), the first abstract collages, influenced in particular by recent works by Hans Arp, would appear in late 1918, which Schwitters dubbed \"Merz\" after a fragment of found text from the phrase \"Commerz Und Privatbank\" (commerce and private bank) in his work \"Das Merzbild\", completed in the winter of 1918–19. By the end of 1919 he had become a well-known artist, after his first one-man exhibition at Der Sturm gallery, in June 1919, and the publication, that August, of the poem \"An Anna Blume\" (translated as 'To Anna Flower', or 'To Eve Blossom'), a dadaist, non-sensical love poem.\nAs Schwitters's first overtures to Zurich and Berlin Dada made explicit mention of Merz pictures, there are no grounds for the widespread claim that he invented Merz because he was rejected by Berlin Dada.\n\nSchwitters asked to join Berlin Dada either in late 1918 or early 1919, according to the memoirs of Raoul Hausmann. Hausmann claimed that Richard Huelsenbeck rejected the application because of Schwitters' links to Der Sturm and to Expressionism in general, which were seen by the Dadaists as hopelessly romantic and obsessed with aesthetics.\nRidiculed by Huelsenbeck as ‘the Caspar David Friedrich of the Dadaist Revolution’, he would reply with an absurdist short story \"Franz Mullers Drahtfrühling, Ersters Kapitel: Ursachen und Beginn der grossen glorreichen Revolution in Revon\" published in Der Sturm (xiii/11, 1922), which featured an innocent bystander who started a revolution 'merely by being there'.\n\nHausmann's anecdote about Schwitters asking to join Berlin Dada is, however, somewhat dubious, for there is well-documented evidence that Schwitters and Huelsenbeck were on amicable terms at first. When they first met in 1919, Huelsenbeck was enthusiastic about Schwitters’s work and promised his assistance, while Schwitters reciprocated by finding an outlet for Huelsenbeck’s Dada publications. When Huelsenbeck visited him at the end of the year, Schwitters gave him a lithograph (which he kept all his life) and though their friendship was by now strained, Huelsenbeck wrote him a conciliatory note. \"You know I am well-disposed towards you. I think too that certain disagreements we have both noticed in our respective opinions should not be an impediment to our attack on the common enemy, the bourgeoisie and philistinism.\" It was not until mid-1920 that the two men fell out, either because of the success of Schwitters's poem \"An Anna Blume\" (which Huelsenbeck considered unDadaistic) or because of quarrels about Schwitters' contribution to Dadaco, a projected Dada atlas edited by Huelsenbeck. It is unlikely that Schwitters ever considered joining Berlin Dada, however, for he was under contract to Der Sturm, which offered far better long-term opportunities than Dada's quarrelsome and erratic venture. If Schwitters contacted Dadaists at this time, it was generally because he was searching for opportunities to exhibit his work.\nThough not a direct participant in Berlin Dada's activities, Schwitters employed Dadaist ideas in his work, used the word itself on the cover of \"An Anna Blume\", and would later give Dada recitals throughout Europe on the subject with Theo van Doesburg, Tristan Tzara, Hans Arp and Raoul Hausmann. In many ways his work was more in tune with Zürich Dada's championing of performance and abstract art than Berlin Dada's agit-prop approach, and indeed examples of his work were published in the last Zürich Dada publication, \"Der Zeltweg\", November 1919, alongside the work of Arp and Sophie Tauber. Whilst his work was far less political than key figures in Berlin Dada, such as George Grosz and John Heartfield, he would remain close friends with various members, including Hannah Höch and Raoul Hausmann, for the rest of his career.\n\nIn 1922 Theo van Doesburg organised a series of Dada performances in the Netherlands. Various members of Dada were invited to join, but declined. Eventually the programme comprised acts and performances by Theo van Doesburg, Nelly van Doesburg as Petrò Van Doesburg, Kurt Schwitters and sometimes Vilmos Huszàr. The Dada performances took place in various cities, amongst which Amsterdam, Leiden, Utrecht and The Hague. Schwitters also performed on solo evenings, one of which took place on 13 April 1923 in Drachten, Friesland. Schwitters later on visited Drachten quite frequently, staying with a local painter, Thijs Rinsema. Schwitters created several collages there, probably together with Thijs Rinsema. Their collages can sometimes hardly be distinguished from each other. From 1921 onwards there are signs of correspondence between Schwitters and an intarsia worker. From this co-operation several new works originated, where the collage technique was applied to woodwork, by incorporating several kinds of wood as a means to delineate images and letters. Thijs Rinsema also used this technique.\n\nMerz has been called 'Psychological Collage'. Most of the works attempt to make coherent aesthetic sense of the world around Schwitters, using fragments of found objects. These fragments often make witty allusions to current events. (\"Merzpicture 29a, Picture with Turning Wheel\", 1920 for instance, combines a series of wheels that only turn clockwise, alluding to the general drift Rightwards across Germany after the Spartacist Uprising in January that year, whilst \"Mai 191(9)\", alludes to the strikes organized by the Bavarian Workers' and Soldiers' Council.) Autobiographical elements also abound; test prints of graphic designs; bus tickets; ephemera given by friends. Later collages would feature proto-pop mass media images. (\"En Morn\", 1947, for instance, has a print of a blonde young girl included, prefiguring the early work of Eduardo Paolozzi, whilst many works seem to have directly influenced Robert Rauschenberg, who said after seeing an exhibition of Schwitters' work at the Sidney Janis Gallery, 1959, that \"I felt like he made it all just for me.\")\n\nWhilst these works were usually collages incorporating found objects, such as bus tickets, old wire and fragments of newsprint, Merz also included artists' periodicals, sculptures, sound poems and what would later be called \"installations\". Schwitters was to use the term Merz for the rest of the decade, but, as Isabel Schulz has noted, 'though the fundamental compositional principles of Merz remained the basis and centre of [Schwitters’] creative work [...] the term Merz disappears almost entirely from the titles of his work after 1931’.\n\nAs the political climate in Germany became more liberal and stable, Schwitters' work became less influenced by Cubism and Expressionism. He started to organize and participate in lecture tours with other members of the international avant-garde, such as Hans Arp, Raoul Hausmann and Tristan Tzara, touring Czechoslovakia, the Netherlands, and Germany with provocative evening recitals and lectures.\n\nSchwitters published a periodical, also called \"Merz\", between 1923 and 1932, in which each issue was devoted to a central theme. \"Merz 5\" 1923, for instance, was a portfolio of prints by Hans Arp, \"Merz 8/9\", 1924, was edited and typeset by El Lissitsky, \"Merz 14/15\", 1925, was a typographical children's story entitled \"The Scarecrow\" by Schwitters, Kätte Steinitz and Theo van Doesburg. The last edition, \"Merz 24\", 1932, was a complete transcription of the final draft of the \"Ursonate\", with typography by Jan Tschichold.\n\nHis work in this period became increasingly Modernist in spirit, with far less overtly political context and a cleaner style, in keeping with contemporary work by Hans Arp and Piet Mondrian. His friendship around this time with El Lissitzky proved particularly influential, and \"Merz\" pictures in this period show the direct influence of Constructivism.\n\nThanks to Schwitters' lifelong patron and friend Katherine Dreier, his work was exhibited regularly in the US from 1920 onwards. In the late 1920s he became a well-known typographer; his best-known work was the catalogue for the Dammerstocksiedlung in Karlsruhe. After the demise of \"Der Sturm Gallery\" in 1924 he ran an advertising agency called \"Merzwerbe\", which held the accounts for Pelikan inks and Bahlsen biscuits, amongst others, and became the official typographer for Hanover town council between 1929 and 1934. Many of these designs, as well as test prints and proof sheets, were to crop up in contemporary Merz pictures. In a manner similar to the typographic experimentation by Herbert Bayer at the Bauhaus, and Jan Tschichold's \"Die neue Typographie\", Schwitters experimented with the creation of a new more phonetic alphabet in 1927. Some of his types were cast and used in his work. In the late 1920s Schwitters joined the \"Deutscher Werkbund\" (German Work Federation).\n\nAlongside his collages, Schwitters also dramatically altered the interiors of a number of spaces throughout his life. The most famous was the \"Merzbau\", the transformation of six (or possibly more) rooms of the family house in Hanover, Waldhausenstrasse 5. This took place very gradually; work started in about 1923, the first room was finished in 1933, and Schwitters subsequently extended the Merzbau to other areas of the house until he fled to Norway in early 1937. Most of the house was let to tenants, so that the final extent of the Merzbau was less than is normally assumed. On the evidence of Schwitters' correspondence, by 1937 it had spread to two rooms of his parents' apartment on the ground floor, the adjoining balcony, the space below the balcony, one or two rooms of the attic and possibly part of the cellar. In 1943 it was destroyed in an Allied bombing raid.\n\nEarly photos show the \"Merzbau\" with a grotto-like surface and various columns and sculptures, possibly referring to similar pieces by Dadaists, including the \"Great Plasto-Dio-Dada-Drama\" by Johannes Baader, shown at the first International Dada Fair, Berlin, 1920. Work by Hannah Höch, Raoul Hausmann and Sophie Tauber, amongst others, were incorporated into the fabric of the installation. By 1933, it had been transformed into a sculptural environment, and three photos from this year show a series of angled surfaces aggressively protruding into a room painted largely in white, with a series of tableaux spread across the surfaces. In his essay 'Ich und meine Ziele' in Merz 21, Schwitters referred to the first column of his work as the \"Cathedral of Erotic Misery\". There is no evidence that he used this name after 1930, however. The first use of the word 'Merzbau' occurs in 1933.\n\nPhotos of the \"Merzbau\" were reproduced in the journal of the Paris-based group abstraction-création in 1933-34, and were exhibited in MoMA in New York in late 1936.\n\nThe Sprengel Museum in Hanover has a reconstruction of the first room of the \"Merzbau\".\n\nSchwitters later created a similar environment in the garden of his house in Lysaker, near Oslo, known as the Haus am Bakken (the house on the slope). This was almost complete when Schwitters left Norway for the United Kingdom in 1940. It burnt down in 1951 and no photos survive. The last Merzbau, in Elterwater, Cumbria, England, remained incomplete on Schwitters' death in January 1948. A further environment that also served as a living space can still be seen on the island of Hjertøya near Molde, Norway. It is sometimes described as a fourth Merzbau, although Schwitters himself only ever referred to three. The interior has now been removed and will eventually be exhibited in the Romsdal Museum in Molde, Norway.\n\nSchwitters composed and performed an early example of sound poetry, \"Ursonate\" (1922–1932; a translation of the title is \"Original Sonata\" or \"Primeval Sonata\"). The poem was influenced by Raoul Hausmann's poem \"fmsbw\" which Schwitters heard recited by Hausmann in Prague, 1921. Schwitters first performed the piece on 14 February 1925 at the home of Irmgard Kiepenheuer in Potsdam. He subsequently performed it regularly, both developing and extending it. He published his notations for the recital in the last Merz periodical in 1932, although he would continue to develop the piece for at least the next ten years.\n\nAs the political situation in Germany under the Nazis continued to deteriorate throughout the 1930s, his work began to be included in the \"Entartete Kunst\" (Degenerate Art) touring exhibition organised by the Nazi party from 1933. He lost his contract with Hanover City Council in 1934 and examples of his work in German museums were confiscated and publicly ridiculed in 1935. By the time his close friends Christof and Luise Spengemann and their son Walter were arrested by the Gestapo in August 1936 the situation had clearly become perilous.\n\nOn 2 January 1937 Schwitters, wanted for an \"interview\" with the Gestapo, fled to Norway to join his son Ernst, who had already left Germany on 26 December 1936. His wife Helma decided to remain in Hanover, to manage their four properties. In the same year, his \"Merz\" pictures were included in the \"Entartete Kunst\" exhibition titled in Munich, making his return impossible.\n\nHelma visited Schwitters in Norway for a few months each year up to the outbreak of World War II. The joint celebrations for his mother Henriette's 80th birthday and his son Ernst's engagement, held in Oslo on 2 June 1939, would be the last time the two met.\n\nSchwitters started a second \"Merzbau\" while in exile in Lysaker nearby Oslo, in 1937 but abandoned it in 1940 when the Nazis invaded; this Merzbau was subsequently destroyed in a fire in 1951. His hut on the Norwegian island of Hjertøya, near Molde, is also frequently regarded as a Merzbau. For decades this building was more or less left to rot, but measures have now been taken to preserve the interior.\n\nFollowing Nazi Germany's invasion of Norway, Schwitters was amongst a number of German citizens who were interned by the Norwegian authorities at Vågan Folk High School in Kabelvåg on the Lofoten Islands, Following his release, Schwitters fled to Leith, Scotland with his son and daughter-in-law on the Norwegian patrol vessel between 8 and 18 June 1940. By now officially an 'enemy alien', he was moved between various internment camps in Scotland and England before arriving on 17 July 1940 in Hutchinson Camp in the Isle of Man.\nThe camp was situated in a collection of terraced houses around Hutchinson Square in Douglas. The camp soon comprised some 1,205 internees by end of July 1940, almost all of whom were German or Austrian. The camp was soon known as \"the artist's camp\", comprising as it did many artists, writers, university professors and other intellectuals. In this environment, Schwitters was popular as a character, a raconteur and as an artist.\n\nHe was soon provided studio space and took on students, many of whom would later become significant artists in their own right. He produced over 200 works during his internment, including more portraits than at any other time in his career, many of which he charged for.\nHe contributed at least two portraits to the second art exhibition within the camp in November 1940, and in December he contributed (in English) to the camp newsletter, \"The Camp\".\n\nAt least in the early days of the camp's existence, there was a shortage of art supplies which meant that the internees had to be resourceful to obtain the materials they needed: they would mix brick dust with sardine oil for paint, dig up clay when out on walks for sculpture, and rip up the lino floors to make cuttings which they then pressed through the clothes mangle to make linocut prints. Schwitters’ Merz extension of this included making sculptures in porridge:\n\n\"The room stank. A musty, sour, indescribable stink which came from three Dada sculptures which he had created from porridge, no plaster of Paris being available. The porridge had developed mildew and the statues were covered with greenish hair and bluish excrements of an unknown type of bacteria.\" Fred Uhlman in his memoir\n\nSchwitters was well-liked in the camp and was a welcome distraction from the internment they were suffering. Fellow internees would later recall fondly his curious habits of sleeping under his bed and barking like a dog, as well as his regular Dadaist readings and performances. However, the epileptic condition which had not surfaced since his childhood began to recur whilst in the camp. His son attributed this to Schwitters’ depression at internment which he kept hidden from others in the camp.\n\nFor the outside world he always tried to put up a good show, but in the quietness of the room I shared with him [...], his painful disillusion was clearly revealed to me. [...] Kurt Schwitters worked with more concentration than ever during internment to stave off bitterness and hopelessness.\n\nSchwitters applied as early as October 1940 for release (with the appeal written in English: \"As artist, I can not be interned for a long time without danger for my art\"), but he was refused even after his fellow internees began to be released.\n\"I am now the last artist here – all the others are free. But all things are equal. If I stay here, then I have plenty to occupy myself. If I am released, then I will enjoy freedom. If I manage to leave for the U.S., then I will be over there. You carry your own joy with you wherever you go.\" Letter to Helma Schwitters, April 1941.\nSchwitters was finally released on 21 November 1941, with the help of an intervention from Alexander Dorner, Rhode Island School of Design.\n\nAfter obtaining his freedom Schwitters moved to London, hoping to make good on the contacts that he had built up over his period of internment. He first moved to an attic flat at 3 St. Stephen's Crescent, Paddington. It was here that he met his future companion, Edith Thomas:\n\n“He knocked on her door to ask how the boiler worked, and that was that. [...] She was 27 – half his age. He called her Wantee, because she was always offering tea.\" Gretel Hinrichsen quoted in \"The Telegraph\"\n\nIn London he made contact with and mixed with a range of artists, including Naum Gabo, László Moholy-Nagy and Ben Nicholson. He exhibited in a number of galleries in the city but with little success; at his first solo exhibition at The Modern Art Gallery in December 1944, forty works were displayed, priced between 15 and 40 guineas, but only one was bought.\n\nDuring his years in London, the shift in Schwitters’ work continued towards an organic element that augmented the mass-produced ephemera of previous years with natural forms and muted colours. Pictures such as \"Small Merzpicture With Many Parts\" 1945-6, for example, used objects found on a beach, including pebbles and smooth shards of porcelain.\n\nIn August 1942 he moved with his son to 39 Westmoreland Road, Barnes, London. In October 1943 he learnt that his Merzbau in Hanover had been destroyed in allied bombing. In April 1944 he suffered his first stroke, at the age of 56, which left him temporarily paralyzed on one side of his body. His wife Helma died of cancer on 29 October 1944, although Schwitters only heard of her death in December.\n\nSchwitters first visited the Lake District on holiday with Edith Thomas in September 1942. He moved there permanently on 26 June 1945, to 2 Gale Crescent Ambleside. However, after another stroke in February of the following year and further illness, he and Edith moved to a more easily accessible house at 4 Millans Park.\n\nDuring his time in Ambleside Schwitters created a sequence of proto-pop art pictures, such as \"For Käte\", 1947, after the encouragement from his friend, Käte Steinitz. Having emigrated to the United States in 1936, Steinitz sent Schwitters letters describing life in the emerging consumer society, and wrapped the letters in pages of comics to give a flavour of the new world, which she encouraged Schwitters to ‘Merz’.\n\nIn March 1947, Schwitters decided to recreate the Merzbau and found a suitable location in a barn at Cylinders Farm, Elterwater, which was owned by Harry Pierce, whose portrait Schwitters had been commissioned to paint. Having been forced by a lack of other income to paint portraits and popularist landscape pictures suitable for sale to the local residents and tourists, Schwitters received notification shortly before his 60th birthday that he had been awarded a £1,000 fellowship to be transferred to him via the Museum of Modern Art in New York City in order to enable him to repair or re-create his previous Merz constructions in Germany or Norway. Instead he used it for the \"Merzbarn\" in Elterwater. Schwitters worked on the Merzbarn daily, travelling the five miles between his home and the barn, except for when illness kept him away. On 7 January 1948 he received the news that he had been granted British citizenship. The following day, on 8 January, Schwitters died from acute pulmonary edema and myocarditis, in Kendal Hospital.\n\nHe was buried on 10 January at St. Mary's Church, Ambleside. His grave was unmarked until 1966 when a stone was erected with the inscription \"Kurt Schwitters – Creator of Merz\". The stone remains as a memorial even though his body was disinterred and reburied in the Engesohde Cemetery in Hanover in 1970, the grave being marked with a marble copy of his 1929 sculpture \"Die Herbstzeitlose\".\n\nOne entire wall of the Merzbarn was removed to the Hatton Gallery in Newcastle for safe keeping. The shell of the barn remains in Elterwater, near Ambleside.\n\nMany artists have cited Schwitters as a major influence, including Ed Ruscha, Robert Rauschenberg, Damien Hirst, Al Hansen, and Arman.\n\"The language of Merz now finds common acceptance and today there is scarcely an artist working with materials other than paint who does not refer to Schwitters in some way. In his bold and wide-ranging experiments he can be seen as the grandfather of Pop Art, Happenings, Concept Art, Fluxus, multimedia art and post-modernism.\" Gwendolyn Webster\nSchwitters’ \"Ja-Was?-Bild\" (1920), an abstract work made of oil, paper, cardboard, fabric, wood and nails, was sold £13.9 million at Christie's London in 2014.\n\nSchwitters' son, Ernst, largely entrusted the artistic estate of his father to Gilbert Lloyd, director of the Marlborough Gallery. However, Ernst fell victim to a crippling stroke in 1995, moving control of the estate as a whole to Kurt's grandson, Bengt Schwitters. Controversy erupted when Bengt, who has said he has \"no interest in art and his grandfather's works\", terminated the standing agreement between the family and the Marlborough Gallery. The Marlborough Gallery filed suit against the Schwitters estate in 1996, after confirming Ernst Schwitters' desire to have Mr. Lloyd continue to administer the estate in his will.\n\nProfessor Henrick Hanstein, an auctioneer and art expert, provided key testimony in the case, stating that Schwitters was virtually forgotten after his death in exile in England in 1948, and that the Marlborough Gallery had been vital in ensuring the artist's place in art history. The verdict, which was eventually upheld by Norway's highest court, awarded the gallery USD 2.6 million in damages.\n\nSchwitters' visual work has now been completely catalogued in the Catalogue Raisonné. Forgeries of collages by Schwitters turn up almost weekly on eBay. Before purchasing any work supposedly by Schwitters, it is best to consult the Kurt Schwitters Archive at the Sprengel Museum in Hanover, Germany.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11737791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11737791", "title": "Lindley DeVecchio", "text": "Lindley DeVecchio\n\nLindley DeVecchio (born Roy Lindley DeVecchio; April 18, 1940, Fresno, California) is a former U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agent in charge of managing mob informants. DeVecchio worked for the FBI during the Mafia wars in New York during the 1980s and 1990s, eventually rising to head of the FBI squad responsible for surveillance of the Colombo crime family. He was also responsible for handling Gregory Scarpa, a Colombo capo who had secretly been an FBI informant since the 1960s. \n\nAfter Scarpa pleaded guilty to racketeering charges in 1993, former Colombo consigliere Carmine Sessa, who had recently turned informer, tipped off prosecutors about Scarpa's unusual relationship with DeVecchio. \n\nEventually, prosecutors uncovered circumstantial evidence that DeVecchio had leaked confidential information to Scarpa on numerous occasions. Reportedly, DeVecchio had told Scarpa about several former Colombo members who had turned informer. He was suspected of alerting Scarpa that he was being bugged, and that his son was about to be arrested for drug trafficking. \n\nEvidence surfaced that DeVecchio had given Scarpa tips on how to track down soldiers backing Victor Orena's effort to take over the Colombo family during the Third Colombo War (1991–93); Scarpa sided with longtime boss Carmine Persico. DeVecchio is believed to be the first FBI agent accused of helping a mobster commit crimes and cover them up. The FBI conducted a two-year internal probe, but ultimately decided not to press charges against DeVecchio. Nonetheless, his reputation was ruined, and he retired in 1996.\n\nAlthough DeVecchio was cleared of wrongdoing by his superiors, 19 soldiers from the Orena faction had their convictions reversed or charges thrown out after their lawyers contended DeVecchio's actions cast doubt on the evidence against them. The lawyers contended that DeVecchio actively helped Scarpa hunt down and kill opponents, thus making many of the deaths caused by their clients acts of self-defense. They contended DeVecchio had manufactured evidence.\n\nIn 2006, Brooklyn district attorney Charles Hynes indicted DeVecchio on charges that he'd helped Scarpa kill four people in the 1980s and early 1990s by supplying confidential FBI information about them. The case was based almost entirely on the testimony of Scarpa's longtime girlfriend, Linda Schiro.\n\nHowever, the case imploded in the fall of 2007 when Tom Robbins of \"The Village Voice\" came forward with an interview he and mob expert Jerry Capeci had conducted with Schiro in 1997 in which Schiro denied that DeVecchio had been involved in most of the murders. This forced prosecutors to move for a dismissal of charges against DeVecchio, which was granted on November 1, 2007.\n\nDeVecchio co-authored a book about his experiences.\n\n"}
{"id": "21440987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21440987", "title": "London to Lewes Way", "text": "London to Lewes Way\n\nThe London to Lewes Way is a long Roman road between Watling Street at Peckham and Lewes in Sussex. The road passes through Beckenham and West Wickham, then crosses the North Downs above Titsey, on the county boundary between Surrey and Kent, and is overlain by Edenbridge High Street.\nThe road continues on this alignment onto the high ground of Ashdown Forest, where the more grassy vegetation on the silted up outer ditches contrasts very clearly with surrounding heather in aerial photographs, then descends through Piltdown to Lewes, linking with the Sussex Greensand Way at Barcombe Mills and with a network of roads at Lewes.\n\nFirst and early second century pottery fragments were found over the edge of the road near Barcombe Mills,which, together with the heavy construction and planned alignments, indicate a late 1st or early 2nd century date.\n\nFive main alignments were used for the road, with local diversions from them to ease gradients and avoid wet ground. Flint and gravel were used over the North Downs and towards the South Downs, with slag from the Wealden iron industry used extensively for the middle sections, sometimes mixed with sandstone from Ashdown Forest and sometimes as a solid mass. At Holtye near East Grinstead a length of road excavated in 1939 revealed iron slag metalling showing cart ruts. Part of this has been left exposed and fenced off by the Sussex Archaeological Trust for viewing.\n\nThe width of the road varies greatly between places, from as narrow as to as wide as at Butcher's Cross, Hartfield. As no kerb was used the intended width is not known and spreading of material may have increased the eventual width. Where the road crosses hillsides on terraceways the width is about . Where outer ditches are visible on Ashdown Forest they are apart.\n\nThickness of metalling also varies greatly, as does the size of \"agger\". In some places a thick mass of iron slag was laid on the land surface, as at the excavated section at Holtye where the slag metalling was in the centre reducing to at the edges, laid directly on the clay subsoil and rusted into a concrete-like mass. Elsewhere an earth \"agger\" was protected by a much thinner stone layer, as on Ashdown Forest near Five Hundred Acre Wood where only about of compacted sandstone lumps were bedded on of yellow clay. The London end of the road was built of gravel or small flints over a layer of larger flints or pebbles, about thick at the centre, sometimes on a bed of sand.\n\nThis northernmost alignment branched from Watling Street close to the Old Kent Road in what is now the back garden of Number 77, Asylum Road, in Peckham, running parallel to the road for some distance under other back gardens. Here the road was built of gravel on a base of pebbles. Passing just east of Nunhead railway station the road runs along Ivydale Road, crosses the Crystal Palace Railway, and crosses Brockley Rise at St. Hilda's Church heading to Blythe Hill Fields.\n\nOn Blythe Hill the road turns 9 degrees to the south, and crosses the River Pool, then turns another 6 degrees southward onto the next main alignment. Here the intact road was found to be made of gravel on pebbles and flints under a golf course. It then crosses the railway about east of Beckenham railway station. Going through Beckenham it passes close to Langley House then east of West Wickham village centre, crosses Corkscrew Hill, and goes down to the Addington to Hayes road. From Rowdown Woods the Surrey/Kent county boundary follows the road, making a V shaped kink at Skid Hill where the road deviates from the alignment to cross a steep valley. This alignment, marked by tracks and hedgerows, continues to the top of the North Downs above Titsey where it is more than above sea level. Here the road makes a sharp turn eastwards to follow the ridge of the downs, passing south of Tatsfield church before beginning its descent of the escarpment on a terraceway, originally wide, passing west of the rectory, to cross the Pilgrims Way. The road is followed by the Titsey-Tatfield parish boundary for .\n\n south of the Pilgrims Way, at the foot of the escarpment, the road passed a Roman temple where it turned onto the major alignment that goes to Marlpit Hill north of Edenbridge. This alignment was parallel to that north of the downs, but half a mile further east. The M25 motorway cuts across the road south of the temple site, at the end of the eastern slip roads of Clacket Lane services. Some Roman artifacts found during construction of the service areas are on display there. In the woods east of Limpsfield Chart the road deviates from the alignment to avoid steep slopes, curving to the east on a route followed by the modern road through Crockham Hill before rejoining the alignment north of Marlpit Hill.\n\nAt Marlpit Hill the road makes a small direction change of only three degrees, and almost entirely keeps to this line to the high ground of Ashdown Forest. The straight run of Edenbridge High Street, crossing the River Eden and continuing to Dencross, where it continues as a private drive, is the most impressive surviving section of the road. Beyond this the road has been lost, seen only in hedgelines and traces of iron slag metalling in fields. In Peters Wood at Holtye an \"agger\" with iron slag metalling can be seen and on a footpath south of the A264 road a length of almost 100 metres of intact road was excavated in 1939, revealing a slag metalled surface in excellent condition and showing wheel marks. Part of this area south of the road has been kept uncovered by the Sussex Archaeological Trust. The \"agger\" is clearly visible south of this point and again at Butcherfield Lane, Hartfield, where of slag metalling was found on a large wide \"agger\". The road then climbs a small steep hill in an engineered cutting. At Chuck Hatch the road enters Ashdown Forest, zig-zagging to cross a gill at Loneoak Hall, then maintaining its straight line onto the high forest. It then turns 46 degrees west and uses a number of straight alignments to follow the ridge to Camp Hill. This forest section was metalled with sandstone, and was more clearly visible before being damaged by tank training exercises during World War II. Distinct side ditches near Camp Hill are apart.\n\nThe southernmost alignment to Lewes was sighted between Camp Hill and Malling Hill on the east side of Lewes. The road passes east of Streater's Farm, which is likely to have taken its name from the road, and runs east of the modern road to Duddleswell until crossing it north of Fairwarp church. A slag metalled \"agger\" exists at Old Workhouse Farm where the road leaves the open forest. Before reaching the roundabout on the A22 road there is a wide terrace cut into a sandstone outcrop. After passing west of Maresfield the road can be traced through Park Wood and Fairhazel Wood at Piltdown as an \"agger\" with slag metalling. A visible \"agger\" in the park at Buckham Hill House was found by Ivan Donald Margary to have perfectly intact metalling of slag, gravel and brown flints, wide and thick in the centre. The road passes to the west of Isfield's remote church, through a triangular water meadow, before crossing the River Ouse beside a Norman castle motte, suggesting that there was still a river crossing to guard at the Norman conquest. Near Gallops Farm the road runs along the eastern side of Alder Coppice and traces of slag can be found in the fields all the way to Barcombe Mills and the junction with the Sussex Greensand Way. The road recrossed the Ouse at the mill site and was found intact in a field to the south, wide, solidly constructed from flint and a little slag. Some pottery fragments found at the road edge suggest a date of 100 A.D. or earlier. Beyond this some of road have been eroded away by the river, then the course of the road can be traced by slag in the fields west of Wellingham House. The modern A26 road runs on the line from Pay Gate Cottages, past Upper Stoneham Farm, then turns southwest to skirt round Malling Down while the Roman road continues along the east side of the allotments and over the shoulder of the down to Cliffe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "955047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=955047", "title": "Mahr", "text": "Mahr\n\nIn Islam, a mahr (in ; ; also transliterated mehr, meher, mehrieh or mahriyeh) is a mandatory payment, in the form of money or possessions paid by the groom, or by groom's father, to the bride at the time of marriage, that legally becomes her property. While the \"mahr\" is often money, it can also be anything agreed upon by the bride such as jewelry, home goods, furniture, a dwelling or some land. Mahr is typically specified in the marriage contract signed during an Islamic marriage. \n\n\"Dower\" is the English translation that comes closest to Islamic meaning of mahr, as \"dower\" refers to the payment from the husband or his family to the wife, especially to support her in the event of his death. However, mahr is distinct from dower in two ways: 1) mahr is legally required for all Islamic marriages while dower was optional, and 2) mahr is required to be specified at the time of marriage (when a certain amount is promised, if not paid immediately), while dower is not paid until the death of the husband. Mahr also can be classified as a form of \"bridewealth\", described by anthropologists as payments made from the kin of the groom to the kin of the bride; however, mahr is paid directly to the bride and not her parents. In fact, as her legal property, mahr establishes the bride's financial independence from her parents and in many cases from her husband, who has no legal claims to his wife's mahr.\n\nThe terms \"dowry\" and \"bride price\" are sometimes incorrectly used to translate \"mahr\", but mahr differs from dowries in many other cultures. A dowry traditionally refers to money or possessions a woman brings forth to the marriage, usually provided by her parents or family; bride price to money or property paid by the groom or his family to the parents of a woman (but not to the woman herself) upon the marriage.\n\nIn the event the marriage contract does not contain an exact, specified mahr, the husband must still pay the wife an equitable sum. The requirement of a mahr is mentioned several times in the Quran and Hadith.\n\nThe mahr is often paid to the bride in parts. The \"mahr\" amount given to the bride at the signing of the marriage contract is called a \"'muajjal(معجل)\" (which is paid at time of marriage (nikah), and the portion that is promised but deferred is called a \"ghaire mu’ajjal(غیر معجل)\" (which is paid after completion of marriage). A deferred promise to pay does not make the full amount of the mahr any less legally required. There are differences between the nature of \"mahr\", definition of proper contract and conditions of enforceability depending on the regional \"fiqh\" and school of Islamic jurisprudence.\n\nThe word \"mahr\" is related to the Hebrew word \"mohar\" and the Syriac word \"mahrā\", meaning “bridal gift”, which originally meant “purchase-money”. The word implies a gift given voluntarily and not as a result of a contract, but in Muslim religious law it was declared a gift which the bridegroom has to give the bride when the contract of marriage is made and which becomes the property of the wife.\n\nAmong pre-Islamic Arabs, a \"bride price\" called \"mahr\" was an essential condition for a legal marriage. The \"mahr\" was given to the guardian (\"wali\") of the bride, such as her father, brother or another relative. In earlier times, the bride received no portion of the \"mahr\". Some scholars believe that in the period shortly before Muhammad, the \"mahr\", or at least a part of it, was already given to the bride, while others regard its transformation into wife's property as a \"revolutionary\" Quranic innovation.\n\nA mahr is part of every Muslim marriage contract. The mahr may be separated into two parts. First, there is the \"muqaddam\", or the prompt mahr, which the wife must receive at or immediately after the marriage ceremony. The second part of the mahr, called the \"mu'akhar\", is a deferred and promised amount, payable at any agreed upon date following the consummation of the marriage. Often the deferred amount is larger than the amount paid at marriage. In theory, the deferred amount is supposed to provide the wife with a means of support, and is associated with the death or divorce of the husband, however this is a more traditional rather than Islamic stance on the matter. The \"muqaddam\" should be viewed as importantly as the initial dowry payment as it is an obligation to be fulfilled by the husband and is considered debt if it is not given to the wife within the timeframe agreed upon between the couple.\n\nThe mahr in any Islamic marriage contract is a fundamental religious right of the wife, and the husband may not reduce the mahr. Even upon the husband's death, the deferred mahr is paid from his estate before all other debts, because it is a religious requirement.\n\nAccording to a hadith, the Muslim Prophet Muhammad stated the mahr should be \"one gold piece\", but the mahr amount is often negotiated between the parents or guardians of the bride and groom (also called \"wali\"), and the parties often draft mahr agreements by filling in the blanks of form contracts that employ standard boilerplate terms. The typical mahr containing marriage contract consists of the names of the parties, the amount of the mahr, a cleric's signature, the signature of two male witnesses, and a disclaimer that Islamic law will govern the marriage contract. In Islamic marriages, assets brought into the union by the wife may only be accepted by the husband after the mahr has been paid by him to her.\n\nIn Arabian world, there are varying interpretations of \"mahr\" containing marriage contracts, highlighting the differences between Maliki, Hanbali, Hanafi, Shafi, and Jafari schools of Islamic jurisprudence. For example, the Hanafi School holds that if the woman initiates the divorce (khulʿ) she cannot receive her mahr regardless of whether the husband is or is not at fault, while the Maliki School holds that when the husband is at fault for the divorce, the wife does not forfeit her right to the mahr even if she initiates the divorce. The schools also differ over the requisite number of witnesses to the contract. The Hanafi School requires two witnesses on the document for a mahr containing contract to be valid, while the Maliki School holds that witnesses are only needed at marriage's publication but not the document.\n\nMahr is similar in legal enforceability to \"donatio propter nuptias\" of Eastern Roman law, except some critical differences. \"Donatio propter nuptias\" was optional and voluntary, while mahr is mandatory and required for all Muslim marriages. Mahr is not an optional gift. The other difference was that \"donatio propter nuptias\" was a security the groom delivered to bride or registered in her name, at the time of marriage, in exchange for \"dos\" (dowry) that came with the bride. Mahr is a religious requirement according to Sharia.\n\nUnder Islamic law, there is no concept of marital property. In Islam, marriage is a contract between a man and his wives. A Muslim man and woman do not merge their legal identity upon marriage. The assets of the man before the marriage, and earned after the marriage, remain his during marriage, and in case of a divorce.\n\nA divorce under Islamic law does not require redistribution of property. Rather, each spouse walks away from the marriage with his or her individual property. Divorcing Muslim women who did not work outside their home after marriage, except for the deferred mahr, are left with little or no claim on the collective wealth of the couple. The deferred mahr is considered a debt owed by the man to the woman, and is owed even if he has no assets.\n\nDivorce under Islamic law may take many forms. If a woman wishes to divorce her husband she has two options: seek a \"tafriq\", or seek a \"khulʿ\". A \"tafriq\" is a divorce for certain allowable reasons, such as abuse or abandonment. This divorce is granted by a \"qadi\", a religious judge. If a tafriq is granted, the marriage is dissolved and the husband is obligated to pay the wife the deferred mahr specified in their marriage contract. The second method, \"khulʿ\" is a divorce without cause, by mutual consent. This divorce requires a husband's consent and it must be supported by consideration that passes from the wife to the husband. Often, this consideration consists of the wife relinquishing her claim to the deferred mahr. In contrast to allowable methods of divorce to a woman, a husband may unilaterally divorce his wife, as \"talaq\", with no requirement to show cause, nor any intervention by a \"qadi\". However, upon talaq, the husband must pay the wife her deferred mahr.\n\nWestern courts have treated mahr provisions in a manner similar to pre-marital contracts. However, in many cases the courts have considered the validity of the marriage contract in cases such as where proper disclosures were not made at the time of marriage, the bride and groom did not separately consent without duress, and in case the bride or both spouses entered into a child marriage prior to a legal age of consent.\n\nThe Encyclopaedia of Islam's entry on \"mahr\" states: \"According to a tradition in Bukhari, the mahr is an essential condition for the legality of the marriage: 'Every marriage without mahr is null and void'.\"\n\nAccording to Islamic teachings in the hadith (sayings of Muhammad), \"mahr\" is the amount to be paid by the groom to the bride at the time of marriage, some of which may be delayed according to what is agreed upon by the spouses. The mahr is for her to spend as she wishes. It can be cash, jewellery or any other valuable gift. In some cases, per Sahih al-Bukhari (Volume 7, Book 62, Number 72), even an iron ring can be mahr.\n\nSura 4.4, 4.19, 4.20, 4.24, 60.10 and 60.11 of Qur'an require a groom to give a dower to a bride.\n\nIn 2003, Rubya Mehdi published an article in which the culture of \"mahr\" among Muslims was thoroughly reviewed.\n\nMahr is a means of sustenance in case of a sudden death, divorce or other emergency.\n\n"}
{"id": "12571988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12571988", "title": "Marriage squeeze", "text": "Marriage squeeze\n\nThe term marriage squeeze refers to an imbalance between the number of men and women available to marry in a certain society. The term was originally coined to illustrate the different patterns of marriage of men and women in 1960s America, where a striking divergence of ethnic differences in marriage has persisted into the 21st century: compared to white and Hispanic women, black women marry later in life, are less likely to marry at all, and have higher rates of marital instability. Much attention has focused on the role of racial intermarriage. Census data from 2010 indicate that in the United States 24% of male Black newlyweds marry outside of their race, compared to 9% of female Black newlyweds. A similar (albeit less pronounced) asymmetry exists in the United Kingdom. A contrasting gender imbalance exists for Asian Americans, among whom females are twice as likely to marry outside their race than males.\n\nIn China and India there are more men than women of marriageable age. Age is a factor of special relevance in China’s male marriage squeeze, where a strict one-child policy—introduced in 1979 with the intention to lower birth rates—entrenched a strong cultural preference for sons which is likely the cause of excess female child mortality and a higher than normal sex ratio at birth.\n\nThere have been a variety of suggestions to explain the patterns of marriage observed. These explanations should take account of wider trends in family structure.\n\nFrom the 1960s onward, first marital stability and later marriage formation became more strongly linked to the transition into stable employment for both men and women. African Americans have suffered disproportionate economic disadvantage, in large part due to the legacy of legal discrimination, which increasingly became an obstacle to marriage. The result has been racial inequalities in marital status in all education groups.\n\nAs a category, African American men suffer from higher rates of incarceration, unemployment, and poor health than do their white counterparts in the United States. These conditions often make their lives unstable, and disqualify them from raising a home effectively, in effect brand them as \"unmarriageable\". Rates of incarceration for marriage-age African American males are far higher than rates for females, further contributing to the male–female gap. As of 2002, 10.4% of all African American males between the ages of 25 and 29 were sentenced and in prison. The African-American male–female disparity is highest between the ages of 25 and 29, when for every two African-American men, there are nearly three African-American women.\n\nThere is a desire among educated women of all races to marry partners within or above their social and economic class; when African American women restrict their marriage prospects to African American men, African American women risk either marrying below their socioeconomic class or not marrying at all as African American women consistently achieve better completion rates in higher education than African American men do.\n\n"}
{"id": "9039430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9039430", "title": "Michael D. C. Drout", "text": "Michael D. C. Drout\n\nMichael D. C. Drout (; born 1968) is Professor of English and Director of the Center for the Study of the Medieval at Wheaton College. He is an author and editor specializing in Anglo-Saxon and medieval literature, science fiction and fantasy, especially the works of J. R. R. Tolkien and Ursula K. Le Guin.\n\nDrout holds a Ph.D. in English from Loyola University Chicago (May 1997), an M.A. in English from the University of Missouri (May 1993), an M.A. in Communication from Stanford University (May 1991), and a B.A. in Professional and Creative Writing from Carnegie Mellon University.\n\nHe is best known for his studies of Tolkien's scholarly work on \"Beowulf\" and the precursors and textual evolution of the essay \"\", published as \"Beowulf and the Critics by J. R. R. Tolkien\" (2002), which won the Mythopoeic Award for Scholarship in Inklings Studies, 2003.\n\nHe is the editor of the \"J.R.R. Tolkien Encyclopedia: Scholarship and Critical Assessment\" (2006), a one-volume reference on Tolkien's works and their contexts.\n\nWith Douglas A. Anderson and Verlyn Flieger, he is co-editor of \"Tolkien Studies: An Annual Scholarly Review\", (Volumes 1–7, 2004–2010).\n\nBooks written or edited by Michael Drout include:\n\n\nMichael Drout has published thirteen audio lectures for Recorded Books' Modern Scholar Series:\n\nDrout has both a nostalgic love of the Anglo-Saxon language, and academic expertise in its linguistic basis for the modern English Language; he maintains a growing collection of recorded Anglo-Saxon on Anglo-Saxon Aloud.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "329625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=329625", "title": "Mimesis", "text": "Mimesis\n\nMimesis (; \"mīmēsis\", from μιμεῖσθαι \"mīmeisthai\", \"to imitate\", from \"mimos\", \"imitator, actor\") is a critical and philosophical term that carries a wide range of meanings, which include imitation, representation, mimicry, \"imitatio\", receptivity, nonsensuous similarity, the act of resembling, the act of expression, and the presentation of the self.\n\nIn ancient Greece, mimesis was an idea that governed the creation of works of art, in particular, with correspondence to the physical world understood as a model for beauty, truth, and the good. Plato contrasted mimesis, or imitation, with diegesis, or narrative. After Plato, the meaning of mimesis eventually shifted toward a specifically literary function in ancient Greek society, and its use has changed and been reinterpreted many times since.\n\nOne of the best-known modern studies of mimesis, understood as a form of realism in literature, is Erich Auerbach's \"\", which opens with a famous comparison between the way the world is represented in Homer's \"Odyssey\" and the way it appears in the \"Bible\". From these two seminal Western texts, Auerbach builds the foundation for a unified theory of representation that spans the entire history of Western literature, including the Modernist novels being written at the time Auerbach began his study. In art history, \"mimesis\", \"realism\" and \"naturalism\" are used, often interchangeably, as terms for the accurate, even \"illusionistic\", representation of the visual appearance of things.\n\nMimesis has been theorised by thinkers as diverse as Plato, Aristotle, Philip Sidney, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Adam Smith, Gabriel Tarde, Sigmund Freud, Walter Benjamin, Theodor Adorno, Erich Auerbach, Paul Ricœur, Luce Irigaray, Jacques Derrida, René Girard, Nikolas Kompridis, Philippe Lacoue-Labarthe, Michael Taussig, Merlin Donald, and Homi Bhabha.\n\nBoth Plato and Aristotle saw in mimesis the representation of nature, including human nature, as reflected in the dramas of the period. Plato wrote about mimesis in both \"Ion\" and \"The Republic\" (Books II, III, and X). In \"Ion\", he states that poetry is the art of divine madness, or inspiration. Because the poet is subject to this divine madness, instead of possessing \"art\" or \"knowledge\" – \"techne\" – of the subject (532c), the poet does not speak truth (as characterized by Plato's account of the Forms). As Plato has it, truth is only the concern of the philosopher. As culture in those days did not consist in the solitary reading of books, but in the listening to performances, the recitals of orators (and poets), or the acting out by classical actors of tragedy, Plato maintained in his critique that theatre was not sufficient in conveying the truth (540c). He was concerned that actors or orators were thus able to persuade an audience by rhetoric rather than by telling the truth (535b).\n\nIn Book II of \"The Republic\", Plato describes Socrates' dialogue with his pupils. Socrates warns we should not seriously regard poetry as being capable of attaining the truth and that we who listen to poetry should be on our guard against its seductions, since the poet has no place in our idea of God.\n\nIn developing this in Book X, Plato told of Socrates' metaphor of the three beds: one bed exists as an idea made by God (the Platonic ideal, or form); one is made by the carpenter, in imitation of God's idea; one is made by the artist in imitation of the carpenter's.\n\nSo the artist's bed is twice removed from the truth. Those who copy only touch on a small part of things as they really are, where a bed may appear differently from various points of view, looked at obliquely or directly, or differently again in a mirror. So painters or poets, though they may paint or describe a carpenter, or any other maker of things, know nothing of the carpenter's (the craftsman's) art, and though the better painters or poets they are, the more faithfully their works of art will resemble the reality of the carpenter making a bed, nonetheless the imitators will still not attain the truth (of God's creation).\n\nThe poets, beginning with Homer, far from improving and educating humanity, do not possess the knowledge of craftsmen and are mere imitators who copy again and again images of virtue and rhapsodise about them, but never reach the truth in the way the superior philosophers do.\n\nSimilar to Plato's writings about mimesis, Aristotle also defined mimesis as the perfection, and imitation of nature. Art is not only imitation but also the use of mathematical ideas and symmetry in the search for the perfect, the timeless, and contrasting being with becoming. Nature is full of change, decay, and cycles, but art can also search for what is everlasting and the first causes of natural phenomena. Aristotle wrote about the idea of four causes in nature. The first, the formal cause, is like a blueprint, or an immortal idea. The second cause is the material cause, or what a thing is made out of. The third cause is the efficient cause, that is, the process and the agent by which the thing is made. The fourth, the final cause, is the good, or the purpose and end of a thing, known as \"telos\".\n\nAristotle's \"Poetics\" is often referred to as the counterpart to this Platonic conception of poetry. \"Poetics\" is his treatise on the subject of mimesis. Aristotle was not against literature as such; he stated that human beings are mimetic beings, feeling an urge to create texts (art) that reflect and represent reality.\n\nAristotle considered it important that there be a certain distance between the work of art on the one hand and life on the other; we draw knowledge and consolation from tragedies only because they do not happen to us. Without this distance, tragedy could not give rise to catharsis. However, it is equally important that the text causes the audience to identify with the characters and the events in the text, and unless this identification occurs, it does not touch us as an audience. Aristotle holds that it is through \"simulated representation\", mimesis, that we respond to the acting on the stage which is conveying to us what the characters feel, so that we may empathise with them in this way through the mimetic form of dramatic roleplay. It is the task of the dramatist to produce the tragic enactment in order to accomplish this empathy by means of what is taking place on stage.\n\nIn short, catharsis can only be achieved if we see something that is both recognisable and distant. Aristotle argued that literature is more interesting as a means of learning than history, because history deals with specific facts that have happened, and which are contingent, whereas literature, although sometimes based on history, deals with events that could have taken place or ought to have taken place.\n\nAristotle thought of drama as being \"an imitation of an action\" and of tragedy as \"falling from a higher to a lower estate\" and so being removed to a less ideal situation in more \"tragic\" circumstances than before. He posited the characters in tragedy as being better than the average human being, and those of comedy as being worse.\n\nMichael Davis, a translator and commentator of Aristotle writes:\nIt was also Plato and Aristotle who contrasted mimesis with diegesis (Greek διήγησις). Mimesis \"shows\", rather than \"tells\", by means of directly represented action that is enacted. Diegesis, however, is the \"telling\" of the story by a narrator; the author narrates action indirectly and describes what is in the characters' minds and emotions. The narrator may speak as a particular character or may be the \"invisible narrator\" or even the \"all-knowing narrator\" who speaks from above in the form of commenting on the action or the characters.\n\nIn Book III of his \"Republic\" (c. 373 BCE), Plato examines the style of poetry (the term includes comedy, tragedy, epic and lyric poetry): All types narrate events, he argues, but by differing means. He distinguishes between narration or report (diegesis) and imitation or representation (mimesis). Tragedy and comedy, he goes on to explain, are wholly imitative types; the dithyramb is wholly narrative; and their combination is found in epic poetry. When reporting or narrating, \"the poet is speaking in his own person; he never leads us to suppose that he is any one else\"; when imitating, the poet produces an \"assimilation of himself to another, either by the use of voice or gesture\". In dramatic texts, the poet never speaks directly; in narrative texts, the poet speaks as himself or herself.\n\nIn his \"Poetics\", Aristotle argues that kinds of poetry (the term includes drama, flute music, and lyre music for Aristotle) may be differentiated in three ways: according to their \"medium\", according to their \"objects\", and according to their \"mode\" or \"manner\" (section I); \"For the medium being the same, and the objects the same, the poet may imitate by narration—in which case he can either take another personality, as Homer does, or speak in his own person, unchanged—or he may present all his characters as living and moving before us\" (section III).\n\nThough they conceive of mimesis in quite different ways, its relation with diegesis is identical in Plato's and Aristotle's formulations.\n\nIn ludology, mimesis is sometimes used to refer to the self-consistency of a represented world, and the availability of in-game rationalisations for elements of the gameplay. In this context, mimesis has an associated grade: highly self-consistent worlds that provide explanations for their puzzles and game mechanics are said to display a higher degree of mimesis. This usage can be traced back to the essay \"Crimes Against Mimesis\".\n\nDionysian imitatio is the influential literary method of imitation as formulated by Greek author Dionysius of Halicarnassus in the 1st century BCE, which conceived it as technique of rhetoric: emulating, adaptating, reworking and enriching a source text by an earlier author.\n\nDionysius' concept marked a significant depart from the concept of \"mimesis\" formulated by Aristotle's in the 4th century BCE, which was only concerned with \"imitation of nature\" instead of the \"imitation of other authors\". Latin orators and rhetoricians adopted the literary method of Dionysius' \"imitatio\" and discarded Aristotle's \"mimesis\".\n\nMimesis, or imitation, as he referred to it, was a crucial concept for Samuel Taylor Coleridge's theory of the imagination. Coleridge begins his thoughts on imitation and poetry from Plato, Aristotle, and Philip Sidney, adopting their concept of imitation of nature instead of other writers. His middling departure from the earlier thinkers lies in his arguing that art does not reveal a unity of essence through its ability to achieve sameness with nature. Coleridge claims:\nHere, Coleridge opposes imitation to copying, the latter referring to William Wordsworth's notion that poetry should duplicate nature by capturing actual speech. Coleridge instead argues that the unity of essence is revealed precisely through different materialities and media. Imitation, therefore, reveals the sameness of processes in nature.\n\nThe Belgian feminist Luce Irigaray used the term to describe a form of resistance where women imperfectly imitate stereotypes about themselves so as to show up these stereotypes and undermine them.\n\nIn \"Mimesis and Alterity\" (1993), the anthropologist Michael Taussig examines the way that people from one culture adopt another's nature and culture (the process of mimesis) at the same time as distancing themselves from it (the process of alterity). He describes how a legendary tribe, the \"white Indians\", or Cuna, have adopted in various representations figures and images reminiscent of the white people they encountered in the past (without acknowledging doing so).\n\nTaussig, however, criticises anthropology for reducing yet another culture, that of the Cuna, for having been so impressed by the exotic technologies of the whites that they raised them to the status of gods. To Taussig this reductionism is suspect, and he argues this from both sides in his \"Mimesis and Alterity\" to see values in the anthropologists' perspective while simultaneously defending the independence of a lived culture from the perspective of anthropological reductionism.\n\nIn \"Things Hidden Since the Foundation of the World\" (1978), René Girard posits that human behavior is based upon mimesis, and that imitation can engender pointless conflict. Girard notes the productive potential of competition: \"It is because of this unprecedented capacity to promote competition within limits that always remain socially, if not individually, acceptable that we have all the amazing achievements of the modern world,\" but states that competition stifles progress once it becomes an end in itself: \"rivals are more apt to forget about whatever objects are the cause of the rivalry and instead become more fascinated with one another.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19688", "title": "Mind map", "text": "Mind map\n\nA mind map is a diagram used to visually organize information. A mind map is hierarchical and shows relationships among pieces of the whole. It is often created around a single concept, drawn as an image in the center of a blank page, to which associated representations of ideas such as images, words and parts of words are added. Major ideas are connected directly to the central concept, and other ideas branch out from those major ideas.\n\nMind maps can also be drawn by hand, either as \"rough notes\" during a lecture, meeting or planning session, for example, or as higher quality pictures when more time is available. Mind maps are considered to be a type of spider diagram. A similar concept in the 1970s was \"idea sun bursting\".\n\nAlthough the term \"mind map\" was first popularized by British popular psychology author and television personality Tony Buzan, the use of diagrams that visually \"map\" information using branching and radial maps traces back centuries. These pictorial methods record knowledge and model systems, and have a long history in learning, brainstorming, memory, visual thinking, and problem solving by educators, engineers, psychologists, and others. Some of the earliest examples of such graphical records were developed by Porphyry of Tyros, a noted thinker of the 3rd century, as he graphically visualized the concept categories of Aristotle. Philosopher Ramon Llull (1235–1315) also used such techniques.\n\nThe semantic network was developed in the late 1950s as a theory to understand human learning and developed further by Allan M. Collins and M. Ross Quillian during the early 1960s. Mind maps are similar in radial structure to concept maps, developed by learning experts in the 1970s, but differ in that the former are simplified by focusing around a single central key concept.\n\nBuzan's specific approach, and the introduction of the term \"mind map\", arose during a 1974 BBC TV series he hosted, called \"Use Your Head\". In this show, and companion book series, Buzan promoted his conception of radial tree, diagramming key words in a colorful, radiant, tree-like structure.\n\nBuzan says the idea was inspired by Alfred Korzybski's general semantics as popularized in science fiction novels, such as those of Robert A. Heinlein and A. E. van Vogt. He argues that while \"traditional\" outlines force readers to scan left to right and top to bottom, readers actually tend to scan the entire page in a non-linear fashion. Buzan's treatment also uses then-popular assumptions about the functions of cerebral hemispheres in order to explain the claimed increased effectiveness of mind mapping over other forms of note making.\n\nBuzan suggests the following guidelines for creating mind maps:\n\n\nAs with other diagramming tools, mind maps can be used to generate, visualize, structure, and classify ideas, and as an aid to studying and organizing information, solving problems, making decisions, and writing.\n\nMind maps have many applications in personal, family, educational, and business situations, including notetaking, brainstorming (wherein ideas are inserted into the map radially around the center node, without the implicit prioritization that comes from hierarchy or sequential arrangements, and wherein grouping and organizing is reserved for later stages), summarizing, as a mnemonic technique, or to sort out a complicated idea. Mind maps are also promoted as a way to collaborate in color pen creativity sessions.\n\nIn addition to these direct use cases, data retrieved from mind maps can be used to enhance several other applications; for instance expert search systems, search engines and search and tag query recommender. To do so, mind maps can be analysed with classic methods of information retrieval to classify a mind map's author or documents that are linked from within the mind map.\n\n\nCunningham (2005) conducted a user study in which 80% of the students thought \"mindmapping helped them understand concepts and ideas in science\". Other studies also report some subjective positive effects on the use of mind maps. Positive opinions on their effectiveness, however, were much more prominent among students of art and design than in students of computer and information technology, with 62.5% vs 34% (respectively) agreeing that they were able to understand concepts better with mind mapping software. Farrand, Hussain, and Hennessy (2002) found that spider diagrams (similar to concept maps) had limited, but significant, impact on memory recall in undergraduate students (a 10% increase over baseline for a 600-word text only) as compared to preferred study methods (a 6% increase over baseline). This improvement was only robust after a week for those in the diagram group and there was a significant decrease in motivation compared to the subjects' preferred methods of note taking. A meta study about concept mapping concluded that concept mapping is more effective than \"reading text passages, attending lectures, and participating in class discussions\". The same study also concluded that concept mapping is slightly more effective \"than other constructive activities such as writing summaries and outlines\". However, results were inconsistent, with the authors noting \"significant heterogeneity was found in most subsets\". In addition, they concluded that low-ability students may benefit more from mind mapping than high-ability students.\n\nJoeran Beel and Stefan Langer conducted a comprehensive analysis of the content of mind maps. They analysed 19,379 mind maps from 11,179 users of the mind mapping applications SciPlore MindMapping (now Docear) and MindMeister. Results include that average users create only a few mind maps (mean=2.7), average mind maps are rather small (31 nodes) with each node containing about three words (median). However, there were exceptions. One user created more than 200 mind maps, the largest mind map consisted of more than 50,000 nodes and the largest node contained ~7,500 words. The study also showed that between different mind mapping applications (Docear vs MindMeister) significant differences exist related to how users create mind maps.\n\nThere have been some attempts to create mind maps automatically. Brucks & Schommer created mind maps automatically from full-text streams. Rothenberger et al. extracted the main story of a text and presented it as mind map. And there is a patent about automatically creating sub-topics in mind maps.\n\nMind-mapping software can be used to organize large amounts of information, combining spatial organization, dynamic hierarchical structuring and node folding. Software packages can extend the concept of mind-mapping by allowing individuals to map more than thoughts and ideas with information on their computers and the Internet, like spreadsheets, documents, Internet sites and images. It has been suggested that mind-mapping can improve learning/study efficiency up to 15% over conventional note-taking.\n"}
{"id": "50693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50693", "title": "Mortimer Wheeler", "text": "Mortimer Wheeler\n\nSir Robert Eric Mortimer Wheeler (10 September 1890 – 22 July 1976) was a British archaeologist and officer in the British Army. Over the course of his career, he served as Director of both the National Museum of Wales and London Museum, Director-General of the Archaeological Survey of India, and the founder and Honorary Director of the Institute of Archaeology in London, in addition to writing twenty-four books on archaeological subjects.\n\nBorn in Glasgow to a middle-class family, Wheeler was raised largely in Yorkshire before relocating to London in his teenage years. After studying Classics at University College London (UCL), he began working professionally in archaeology, specializing in the Romano-British period. During World War I he volunteered for service in the Royal Artillery, being stationed on the Western Front, where he rose to the rank of major and was awarded the Military Cross. Returning to Britain, he obtained his doctorate from UCL before taking on a position at the National Museum of Wales, first as Keeper of Archaeology and then as Director, during which time he oversaw excavation at the Roman forts of Segontium, Y Gaer, and Isca Augusta with the aid of his first wife, Tessa Wheeler. Influenced by the archaeologist Augustus Pitt Rivers, Wheeler argued that excavation and the recording of stratigraphic context required an increasingly scientific and methodical approach, developing the \"Wheeler Method\". In 1926, he was appointed Keeper of the London Museum; there, he oversaw a reorganisation of the collection, successfully lobbied for increased funding, and began lecturing at UCL.\n\nIn 1934, he established the Institute of Archaeology as part of the federal University of London, adopting the position of Honorary Director. In this period, he oversaw excavations of the Roman sites at Lydney Park and Verulamium and the Iron Age hill fort of Maiden Castle. During World War II, he re-joined the Armed Forces and rose to the rank of brigadier, serving in the North African Campaign and then the Allied invasion of Italy. In 1944 he was appointed Director-General of the Archaeological Survey of India, through which he oversaw excavations of sites at Harappa, Arikamedu, and Brahmagiri, and implemented reforms to the subcontinent's archaeological establishment. Returning to Britain in 1948, he divided his time between lecturing for the Institute of Archaeology and acting as archaeological adviser to Pakistan's government. In later life, his popular books, cruise ship lectures, and appearances on radio and television, particularly the BBC series \"Animal, Vegetable, Mineral?\", helped to bring archaeology to a mass audience. Appointed Honorary Secretary of the British Academy, he raised large sums of money for archaeological projects, and was appointed British representative for several UNESCO projects.\n\nWheeler is recognised as one of the most important British archaeologists of the twentieth century, responsible for successfully encouraging British public interest in the discipline and advancing methodologies of excavation and recording. Furthermore, he is widely acclaimed as a major figure in the establishment of South Asian archaeology. However, many of his specific interpretations of archaeological sites have been discredited or reinterpreted and he was often criticised for bullying colleagues and sexually harassing young women.\n\nMortimer Wheeler was born on 10 September 1890 in the city of Glasgow, Scotland. He was the first child of the journalist Robert Mortimer Wheeler and his second wife Emily Wheeler (\"née\" Baynes). The son of a tea merchant based in Bristol, in youth Robert had considered becoming a Baptist minister, but instead became a staunch freethinker while studying at the University of Edinburgh. Initially working as a lecturer in English literature Robert turned to journalism after his first wife died in childbirth. His second wife, Emily, shared her husband's interest in English literature, and was the niece of Thomas Spencer Baynes, a Shakespearean scholar at St. Andrews University. Their marriage was emotionally strained, a situation exacerbated by their financial insecurity. Within two years of their son's birth, the family moved to Edinburgh, where a daughter named Amy was born. The couple gave their two children nicknames, with Mortimer being \"Boberic\" and Amy being \"Totsy\".\n\nWhen Wheeler was four, his father was appointed chief leader writer for the \"Bradford Observer\". The family relocated to Saltaire, a village northwest of Bradford, a cosmopolitan city in Yorkshire, northeast England, which was then in the midst of the wool trade boom. Wheeler was inspired by the moors surrounding Saltaire and fascinated by the area's archaeology. He later wrote about discovering a late prehistoric cup-marked stone, searching for lithics on Ilkley Moor, and digging into a barrow on Baildon Moor. Although suffering from ill health, Emily Wheeler taught her two children with the help of a maid up to the age of seven or eight. Mortimer remained emotionally distant from his mother, instead being far closer to his father, whose company he favoured over that of other children. His father had a keen interest in natural history and a love of fishing and shooting, rural pursuits in which he encouraged Mortimer to take part. Robert acquired many books for his son, particularly on the subject of art history, with Wheeler loving to both read and paint.\n\nIn 1899, Wheeler joined Bradford Grammar School shortly before his ninth birthday, where he proceeded straight to the second form. In 1902 Robert and Emily had a second daughter, whom they named Betty; Mortimer showed little interest in this younger sister. In 1905, Robert agreed to take over as head of the London office of his newspaper, by then renamed the \"Yorkshire Daily Observer\", and so the family relocated to the southeast of the city in December, settling into a house named Carlton Lodge on South Croydon Road, West Dulwich. In 1908 they moved to 14 Rollescourt Avenue in nearby Herne Hill. Rather than being sent for a conventional education, when he was 15 Wheeler was instructed to educate himself by spending time in London, where he frequented The National Gallery and the Victoria and Albert Museum.\n\nAfter passing the entrance exam on his second attempt, in 1907 Wheeler was awarded a scholarship to read classical studies at University College London (UCL), commuting daily from his parental home to the university campus in Bloomsbury, central London. At UCL, he was taught by the prominent classicist A. E. Housman. During his undergraduate studies, he became editor of the \"Union Magazine\", for which he produced a number of illustrated cartoons. Increasingly interested in art, he decided to switch from classical studies to a course at UCL's art school, the Slade School of Fine Art; he returned to his previous subject after coming to the opinion that – in his words – he never became more than \"a conventionally accomplished picture maker\". This interlude had adversely affected his classical studies, and he received a second class BA on graduating.\n\nWheeler began studying for a Master of Arts degree in classical studies, which he attained in 1912. During this period, he also gained employment as the personal secretary of the UCL Provost Gregory Foster, although he later criticised Foster for transforming the university from \"a college in the truly academic sense [into] a hypertrophied monstrosity as little like a college as a plesiosaurus is like a man\". It was also at this time of life that he met and began a relationship with Tessa Verney, a student then studying history at UCL, when they were both serving on the committee of the University College Literary Society.\n\nDuring his studies, Wheeler had developed his love of archaeology, having joined an excavation of Viroconium Cornoviorum, a Romano-British settlement in Wroxeter, in 1913. Considering a profession in the discipline, he won a studentship that had been established jointly by the University of London and the Society of Antiquaries in memory of Augustus Wollaston Franks. The prominent archaeologist Sir Arthur Evans doubled the amount of money that went with the studentship. Wheeler's proposed project had been to analyse Romano-Rhenish pottery, and with the grant he funded a trip to the Rhineland in Germany, there studying the Roman pottery housed in local museums; his research into this subject was never published.\n\nAt this period, there were very few jobs available within British archaeology; as the later archaeologist Stuart Piggott related, \"the young Wheeler was looking for a professional job where the profession had yet to be created.\" In 1913 Wheeler secured a position as junior investigator for the English Royal Commission on Historical Monuments, who were embarking on a project to assess the state of all structures in the nation that pre-dated 1714. As part of this, he was first sent to Stebbing in Essex to assess Late Medieval buildings, although once that was accomplished he focused on studying the Romano-British remains of that county. In summer 1914 he married Tessa in a low-key, secular wedding ceremony, before they moved into Wheeler's parental home in Herne Hill.\n\nAfter the United Kingdom's entry into World War I in 1914, Wheeler volunteered for the armed forces. Although preferring solitary to group activities, Wheeler found that he greatly enjoyed soldiering, and on 9 November 1914 was commissioned a temporary second lieutenant in the University of London Officer Training Corps, serving with its artillery unit as an instructor. It was during this period, in January 1915, that a son was born to the Wheelers, and named Michael. Michael Wheeler was their only child, something that was a social anomaly at the time, although it is unknown if this was by choice or not. In May 1915, Wheeler transferred to the 1st Lowland Brigade of the Royal Field Artillery (Territorial Force), and was confirmed in his rank on 1 July, with a promotion to temporary lieutenant from the same date. Shortly thereafter, on 16 July, Wheeler was promoted to temporary captain. In this position he was stationed at various bases across Britain, often bringing his wife and child with him; his responsibility was as a battery commander, initially of field guns and later of howitzers.\n\nIn October 1917 Wheeler was posted to the 76th Army Field Artillery Brigade, one of the Royal Field Artillery brigades under the direct control of the General Officer Commanding, Third Army. The brigade was then stationed in Belgium, where it had been engaged in the Battle of Passchendaele against German troops along the Western Front. By now a substantive lieutenant (temporary captain), on 7 October he was appointed second-in-command of an artillery battery with the acting rank of captain, but within a fortnight became commander of a battery with the acting rank of major, replacing a major who had been poisoned by mustard gas. He was part of the Left Group of artillery covering the advancing Allied infantry in the battle. Throughout, he maintained correspondences with his wife, his sister Amy, and his parents. After the Allied victory in the battle, the brigade was transferred to Italy.\n\nWheeler and the brigade arrived in Italy on 20 November, and proceeded through the Italian Riviera to reach Caporetto, where it had been sent to bolster the Italian troops against a German and Austro-Hungarian advance. As the Russian Republic removed itself from the war, the German Army refocused its efforts on the Western Front, and so in March 1918 Wheeler's brigade was ordered to leave Italy, getting a train from Castelfranco to Vieux Rouen in France. Back on the Western Front, the brigade was assigned to the 2nd Division, again part of Julian Byng's Third Army, reaching a stable area of the front in April. Here, Wheeler was engaged in artillery fire for several months, before the British went on the offensive in August. On 24 August, in between the ruined villages of Achiet and Sapignies, he led an expedition which captured two German field guns while under heavy fire from a castle mound; he was later awarded the Military Cross for this action:\n\nWheeler continued as part of the British forces pushing westward until the German surrender in November 1918, receiving a mention in dispatches on 8 November. He was not demobilised for several months, instead being stationed at Pulheim in Germany until March; during this time he wrote up his earlier research on Romano-Rhenish pottery, making use of access to local museums, before returning to London in July 1919. Reverting to his permanent rank of lieutenant on 16 September, Wheeler was finally discharged from service on 30 September 1921, retaining the rank of major.\n\nOn returning to London, Wheeler moved into a top-floor flat near Gordon Square with his wife and child. He returned to working for the Royal Commission, examining and cataloguing the historic structures of Essex. In doing so, he produced his first publication, an academic paper on Colchester's Roman Balkerne Gate which was published in the \"Transactions of the Essex Archaeological Society\" in 1920. He soon followed this with two papers in the \"Journal of Roman Studies\"; the first offered a wider analysis of Roman Colchester, while the latter outlined his discovery of the vaulting for the city's Temple of Claudius which was destroyed by Boudica's revolt. In doing so, he developed a reputation as a Roman archaeologist in Britain. He then submitted his research on Romano-Rhenish pots to the University of London, on the basis of which he was awarded his Doctorate of Letters; thenceforth until his knighthood he styled himself as Dr Wheeler. He was unsatisfied with his job in the Commission, unhappy that he was receiving less pay and a lower status than he had had in the army, and so began to seek out alternative employment.\n\nHe obtained a post as the Keeper of Archaeology at the National Museum of Wales, a job that also entailed becoming a lecturer in archaeology at the University College of South Wales and Monmouthshire. Taking up this position, he moved to Cardiff with his family in August 1920, although he initially disliked the city. The museum was in disarray; prior to the war, construction had begun on a new purpose-built building to house the collections. This had ceased during the conflict and the edifice was left abandoned during Cardiff's post-war economic slump. Wheeler recognised that Wales was very divided regionally, with many Welsh people having little loyalty to Cardiff; thus, he made a point of touring the country, lecturing to local societies about archaeology. According to the later archaeologist Lydia C. Carr, the Wheelers' work for the cause of the museum was part of a wider \"cultural-nationalist movement\" linked to growing Welsh nationalism during this period; for instance, the Welsh nationalist party Plaid Cymru was founded in 1925.\n\nWheeler was impatient to start excavations, and in July 1921 started a six-week project to excavate at the Roman fort of Segontium; accompanied by his wife, he used up his holiday to oversee the project. A second season of excavation at the site followed in 1922. Greatly influenced by the writings of the archaeologist Augustus Pitt-Rivers, Wheeler emphasised the need for a strong, developed methodology when undertaking an archaeological excavation, believing in the need for strategic planning, or what he termed \"controlled discovery\", with clear objectives in mind for a project. Further emphasising the importance of prompt publication of research results, he wrote full seasonal reports for \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\" before publishing a full report, \"Segontium and the Roman Occupation of Wales\". Wheeler was keen on training new generations of archaeologists, and two of the most prominent students to excavate with him at Segontium were Victor Nash-Williams and Ian Richmond.\n\nOver the field seasons of 1924 and 1925, Wheeler ran excavations of the Roman fort of Y Gaer near Brecon, a project aided by his wife and two archaeological students, Nowell Myres and Christopher Hawkes. During this project, he was visited by the prominent Egyptologist Sir Flinders Petrie and his wife Hilda Petrie; Wheeler greatly admired Petrie's emphasis on strong archaeological methodologies. Wheeler published the results of his excavation in \"The Roman Fort Near Brecon\". He then began excavations at Isca Augusta, a Roman site in Caerleon, where he focused on revealing the Roman amphitheatre. Intent on attracting press attention to both raise public awareness of archaeology and attract new sources of funding, he contacted the press and organised a sponsorship of the excavation by the middle-market newspaper the \"Daily Mail\". In doing so, he emphasised the folkloric and legendary associations that the site had with King Arthur. In 1925, Oxford University Press published Wheeler's first book for a general audience, \"Prehistoric and Roman Wales\"; he later expressed the opinion that it was not a good book.\n\nIn 1924, the Director of the National Museum of Wales, William Evans Hoyle, resigned amid ill health. Wheeler applied to take on the role of his replacement, providing supportive testimonials from Charles Reed Peers, Robert Bosanquet, and H. J. Fleure. Although he had no prior museum experience, he was successful in his application and was appointed Director. He then employed a close friend, Cyril Fox, to take on the vacated position of Keeper of Archaeology. Wheeler's proposed reforms included extending the institution's reach and influence throughout Wales by building affiliations with regional museums, and focusing on fundraising to finance the completion of the new museum premises. He obtained a £21,367 donation from the wealthy shipowner William Reardon Smith and appointed Smith to be the museum's treasurer, and also travelled to Whitehall, London, where he successfully urged the British Treasury to provide further funding for the museum. As a result, construction on the museum's new building was able to continue, and it was officially opened by King George V in 1927.\n\nUpon the retirement of the Keeper of the London Museum, Harmon Oates, Wheeler was invited to fill the vacancy. He had been considering a return to London for some time and eagerly agreed, taking on the post, which was based at Lancaster House in the St James's area, in July 1926. In Wales, many felt that Wheeler had simply taken the directorship of the National Museum to advance his own career prospects, and that he had abandoned them when a better offer came along. Wheeler himself disagreed, believing that he had left Fox at the Museum as his obvious successor, and that the reforms he had implemented would therefore continue. The position initially provided Wheeler with an annual salary of £600, which resulted in a decline in living standards for his family, who moved into a flat near to Victoria Station.\n\nTessa's biographer L.C. Carr later commented that together, the Wheelers \"professionalized the London Museum\". Wheeler expressed his opinion that the museum \"had to be cleaned, expurgated, and catalogued; in general, turned from a junk shop into a tolerably rational institution\". Focusing on reorganising the exhibits and developing a more efficient method of cataloguing the artefacts, he also authored \"A Short Guide to the Collections\", before using the items in the museum to write three books: \"London and the Vikings\", \"London and the Saxons\", and \"London and the Romans\". Upon his arrival, the Treasury allocated the museum an annual budget of £5,000, which Wheeler deemed insufficient for its needs. In 1930, Wheeler persuaded them to increase that budget, as he highlighted increasing visitor numbers, publications, and acquisitions, as well as a rise in the number of educational projects. With this additional funding, he was able to employ more staff and increase his own annual salary to £900.\n\nSoon after joining the museum, Wheeler was elected to the council of the Society of Antiquaries. Through the Society, he became involved in the debate as to who should finance archaeological supervision of building projects in Greater London; his argument was that the City of London Corporation should provide the funding, although in 1926 it was agreed that the Society itself would employ a director of excavation based in Lancaster House to take on the position. Also involved in the largely moribund Royal Archaeological Institute, Wheeler organised its relocation to Lancaster House. In 1927, Wheeler took on an unpaid lectureship at University College London, where he established a graduate diploma course on archaeology; one of the first to enroll was Stuart Piggott. In 1928, Wheeler curated an exhibit at UCL on \"Recent Work in British Archaeology\", for which he attracted much press attention.\n\nWheeler was keen to continue archaeological fieldwork outside London, undertaking excavations every year from 1926 to 1939. After completing his excavation of the Carlaeon amphitheatre in 1928, he began fieldwork at the Roman settlement and temple in Lydney Park, Gloucestershire, having been invited to do so by the aristocratic landowner, Charles Bathurst. It was during these investigations that Wheeler personally discovered the Lydney Hoard of coinage. Wheeler and his wife jointly published their excavation report in 1932 as \"Report on the Excavation of the Prehistoric, Roman and Post-Roman Site in Lydney Park, Gloucestershire\", which Piggott noted had \"set the pattern\" for all Wheeler's future excavation reports.\n\nFrom there, Wheeler was invited to direct a Society of Antiquaries excavation at the Roman settlement of Verulamium, which existed on land recently acquired by the Corporation of St Albans. He took on this role for four seasons from 1930 to 1933, before leaving a fifth season of excavation under the control of the archaeologist Kathleen Kenyon and the architect A. W. G. Lowther. Wheeler enjoyed the opportunity to excavate at a civilian as opposed to military site, and also liked its proximity to his home in London. He was particularly interested in searching for a pre-Roman Iron Age oppidum at the site, noting that the existence of a nearby Catuvellauni settlement was attested to in both classical texts and numismatic evidence. With Wheeler focusing his attention on potential Iron Age evidence, Tessa concentrated on excavating the inside of the city walls; Wheeler had affairs with at least three assistants during the project. After Tessa wrote two interim reports, the final excavation report was finally published in 1936 as \"Verulamium: A Belgic and Two Roman Cities\", jointly written by Wheeler and his wife. The report resulted in the first major published criticism of Wheeler, produced by the young archaeologist Nowell Myres in a review for \"Antiquity\"; although stating that there was much to praise about the work, he critiqued Wheeler's selective excavation, dubious dating, and guesswork. Wheeler responded with a piece in which he defended his work and launched a personal attack on both Myres and Myres's employer, Christ Church, Oxford.\n\nWheeler had long desired to establish an academic institution devoted to archaeology that could be based in London. He hoped that it could become a centre in which to establish the professionalisation of archaeology as a discipline, with systematic training of students in methodological techniques of excavation and conservation and recognised professional standards; in his words, he hoped \"to convert archaeology into a discipline worthy of that name in all senses\". He further described his intention that the Institute should become \"a laboratory: a laboratory of archaeological science\".\nMany archaeologists shared his hopes, and to this end Petrie had donated much of his collection of Near Eastern artefacts to Wheeler, in the hope that it would be included in such an institution. Wheeler was later able to persuade the University of London, a federation of institutions across the capital, to support the venture, and both he and Tessa began raising funds from wealthy backers. In 1934, the Institute of Archaeology was officially opened, albeit at this point without premises or academic staff; the first students to enroll were Rachel Clay and Barbara Parker, who went on to have careers in the discipline. While Wheeler – who was still Keeper of the London Museum – took on the role of Honorary Director of the Institute, he installed the archaeologist Kathleen Kenyon as secretary of the Management Committee, describing her as \"a level-headed person, with useful experience\".\n\nAfter ending his work at Verulamium, Wheeler turned his attention to the late Iron Age hill-fort of Maiden Castle near to Dorchester, Dorset, where he excavated for four seasons from 1934 to 1937. Co-directed by Wheeler, Tessa, and the Curator of Dorset County Museum, Charles Drew, the project was carried out under the joint auspices of the Society of Antiquaries and the Dorset Field Club. With around 100 assistants each season, the dig constituted the largest excavation that had been conducted in Britain up to that point, with Wheeler organising weekly meetings with the press to inform them about any discoveries. He was keen to emphasise that his workforce consisted of many young people as well as both men and women, thus presenting the image of archaeology as a modern and advanced discipline. According to the later historian Adam Stout, the Maiden Castle excavation was \"one of the most famous British archaeological investigations of the twentieth century. It was the classic 'Wheeler dig', both in terms of scale of operations and the publicity which it generated.\" \n\nWheeler's excavation report was published in 1943 as \"Maiden Castle, Dorset\". The report's publication allowed further criticism to be voiced of Wheeler's approach and interpretations; in his review of the book, the archaeologist W. F. Grimes criticised the highly selective nature of the excavation, noting that Wheeler had not asked questions regarding the socio-economic issues of the community at Maiden Castle, aspects of past societies that had come to be of increasing interest to British archaeology. Over coming decades, as further excavations were carried out at the site and archaeologists developed a greater knowledge of Iron Age Britain, much of Wheeler's interpretation of the site and its development was shown to be wrong, in particular by the work of the archaeologist Niall Sharples.\n\nIn 1936, Wheeler embarked on a visit to the Near East, sailing from Marseilles to Port Said, where he visited the Old Kingdom tombs of Sakkara. From there he went via Sinai to Palestine, Lebanon, and Syria. During this trip, he visited various archaeological projects, but was dismayed by the quality of their excavations; in particular, he noted that the American-run excavation at Tel Megiddo was adopting standards that had been rejected in Britain twenty-five years previously. He was away for six weeks, and upon his return to Europe discovered that his wife Tessa had died of a pulmonary embolism after a minor operation on her toe. According to Tessa's biographer, for Wheeler this discovery was \"the peak of mental misery, and marked the end of his ability to feel a certain kind of love\". That winter, his father also died. By the summer of 1937, he had embarked on a new romance, with a young woman named Mavis de Vere Cole, widow of Horace de Vere Cole, who had first met Wheeler when visiting the Maiden Castle excavations with her then-lover, the painter Augustus John. After she eventually agreed to his repeated requests for marriage, the two were wedded early in 1939 in a ceremony held at Caxton Hall, with a reception at Shelley House. They proceeded on a honeymoon to the Middle East.\n\nAfter a search that had taken several years, Wheeler was able to secure a premises for the Institute of Archaeology: St. John's Lodge in Regent's Park, central London. Left empty since its use as a hospital during the First World War, the building was owned by the Crown and was controlled by the First Commissioner of Works, William Ormsby-Gore; he was very sympathetic to archaeology, and leased the building to the Institute at a low rent. The St. John's Lodge premises were officially opened on 29 April 1937. During his speech at the ceremony, the University of London's Vice-Chancellor Charles Reed Peers made it clear that the building was only intended as a temporary home for the Institute, which it was hoped would be able to move to Bloomsbury, the city's academic hub. In his speech, the university's Chancellor, Alexander Cambridge, 1st Earl of Athlone, compared the new institution to both the Institute of Historical Research and the Courtauld Institute of Art.\n\nWheeler had also become President of the Museums Association, and in a presidential address given in Belfast talked on the topic of preserving museum collections in war time, believing that Britain's involvement in a second European conflict was imminent. In anticipation of this event, in August 1939 he arranged for the London Museum to place many of its most important collections into safe keeping. He was also awarded an honorary doctorate from Bristol University, and at the award ceremony met the Conservative Party politician Winston Churchill, who was then engaged in writing his multi-volume \"A History of the English-Speaking Peoples\"; Churchill asked Wheeler to aid him in writing about late prehistoric and early medieval Britain, to which the latter agreed.\n\nAfter Maiden Castle, Wheeler turned his attention to France, where the archaeological investigation of Iron Age sites had lagged behind developments in Britain. There, he oversaw a series of surveys and excavations with the aid of Leslie Scott, beginning with a survey tour of Brittany in the winter of 1936–37. After this, Wheeler decided to excavate the oppidum at Camp d'Artus, near Huelgoat, Finistère. In addition to bringing many British archaeologists to work on the site, he hired six local Breton workmen to assist the project, coming to the belief that the oppidum had been erected by local Iron Age tribes to defend themselves from the Roman invasion led by Julius Caesar. Meanwhile, Scott had been placed in charge of an excavation at the smaller nearby hill fort of Kercaradec, near Quimper. In July 1939, the project focused its attention on Normandy, with excavations beginning at the Iron Age hill forts of Camp de Canada and Duclair. They were brought to an abrupt halt in September 1939 as the Second World War broke out in Europe, and the team evacuated back to Britain. Wheeler's excavation report, co-written with Katherine Richardson, was eventually published as \"Hill-forts of Northern France\" in 1957.\n\nWheeler had been expecting and openly hoping for war with Nazi Germany for a year prior to the outbreak of hostilities; he believed that the United Kingdom's involvement in the conflict would remedy the shame that he thought had been brought upon the country by its signing of the Munich Agreement in September 1938. Volunteering for the armed services, he was assigned to assemble the 48th Light Anti-Aircraft Battery at Enfield, where he set about recruiting volunteers, including his son Michael. As the 48th swelled in size, it was converted into the 42nd Mobile Light Anti-Aircraft Regiment in the Royal Artillery, which consisted of four batteries and was led by Wheeler – now promoted to the rank of colonel – as Commanding Officer. Given the nickname of \"Flash Alf\" by those serving under him, he was recognised by colleagues as a ruthless disciplinarian and was blamed by many for the death of one of his soldiers from influenza during training. Having been appointed secretary of the Society of Antiquaries in 1939 and then director in 1940, he travelled to London to deal with society affairs on various occasions. In 1941 Wheeler was awarded a Fellowship of the British Academy. Cole had meanwhile entered into an affair with a man named Clive Entwistle, who lambasted Wheeler as \"that whiskered baboon\". When Wheeler discovered Entwistle in bed with his wife, he initiated divorce proceedings that were finalised in March 1942.\n\nIn the summer of 1941, Wheeler and three of his batteries were assigned to fight against German and Italian forces in the North African Campaign. In September, they set sail from Glasgow aboard the RMS \"Empress of Russia\"; because the Mediterranean was controlled largely by enemy naval forces, they were forced to travel via the Cape of Good Hope, before taking shore leave in Durban. There, Wheeler visited the local kraals to compare them with the settlements of Iron Age Britain. The ship docked in Aden, where Wheeler and his men again took shore leave. They soon reached the British-controlled Suez, where they disembarked and were stationed on the shores of the Great Bitter Lake. There, Wheeler took a brief leave of absence to travel to Jerusalem, where he visited Petrie on his hospital deathbed. Back in Egypt, he gained permission to fly as a front gunner in a Wellington bomber on a bombing raid against Axis forces, to better understand what it was like for aircrew to be fired on by an anti-aircraft battery.\n\nServing with the Eighth Army, Wheeler was present in North Africa when the Axis armies pushed the Allies back to El Alamein. He was also part of the Allied counter-push, taking part in the Second Battle of El Alamein and the advance on Axis-held Tripoli. On the way he became concerned that the archaeological sites of North Africa were being threatened both by the fighting and the occupying forces. After the British secured control of Libya, Wheeler visited Tripoli and Leptis Magna, where he found that Roman remains had been damaged and vandalised by British troops; he brought about reforms to prevent this, lecturing to the troops on the importance of preserving archaeology, making many monuments out-of-bounds, and ensuring that the Royal Air Force changed its plans to construct a radar station in the midst of a Roman settlement. Aware that the British were planning to invade and occupy the Italian island of Sicily, he insisted that measures be introduced to preserve the historic and archaeological monuments on the island.\n\nPromoted to the rank of brigadier, after the German surrender in North Africa, Wheeler was sent to Algiers where he was part of the staff committee planning the invasion of Italy. There, he learned that the India Office had requested that the army relieve him of his duties to permit him to be appointed Director General of Archaeology in India. Although he had never been to the country, he agreed that he would take the job on the condition that he be permitted to take part in the invasion of Italy first. As intended, Wheeler and his 12th Anti-Aircraft Brigade then took part in the invasion of Sicily and then mainland Italy, where they were ordered to use their anti-aircraft guns to protect the British 10th Corps. As the Allies advanced north through Italy, Wheeler spent time in Naples and then Capri, where he met various aristocrats who had anti-fascist sympathies.\n\nWheeler left Italy in November 1943 and returned to London. There, he resigned as the director of the London Museum and focused on organising the Institute of Archaeology, preparing it for its adoption of a new director, V. Gordon Childe, after the war. He also resigned as director of the Society of Antiquaries, but was appointed the group's representative to the newly formed Council for British Archaeology. He developed a relationship with a woman named Kim Collingridge, and asked her to marry him. As she was a devout Roman Catholic, he officially converted to the religion, something which shocked many of his friends, who believed that he was being dishonest because he did not genuinely believe in the doctrines of the faith. He then set sail for Bombay aboard a transport ship, the \"City of Exeter\", in February 1944.\n\nWheeler arrived in Bombay in the spring of 1944. There, he was welcomed by the city's governor, John Colville, before heading by train to Delhi and then Simla, where the headquarters of the Archaeological Survey of India were located. Wheeler had been suggested for the job by Archibald Wavell, the Viceroy of India, who had been acting on the recommendations of the archaeologist Leonard Woolley, who had authored a report lamenting the state of the archaeological establishment in the British-controlled subcontinent. Wheeler recognised this state of affairs, in a letter to a friend complaining about the lack of finances and equipment, commenting that \"We're back in 1850\". He initially found much to dislike in India, and in his letters to friends in Britain expressed derogatory and racist sentiments toward Indians: he stated that \"they feed wrongly and think wrongly and live wrongly ... I already find myself regarding them as ill-made clockwork toys rather than as human beings, and I find myself bullying them most brutally.\" He expelled those staff members whom he deemed too idle, and physically beat others in an attempt to motivate them.\n\nFrom the beginning of his tenure, he sought to distance himself from previous Directors-General and their administrations by criticising them in print and attempting to introduce new staff who had no loyalty to his predecessors. Assigned with a four-year contract, Wheeler attempted to recruit two archaeologists from Britain, Glyn Daniel and Stuart Piggott, to aid him in reforming the Archaeological Survey, although they declined the offer. He then toured the subcontinent, seeking to meet all of the Survey's staff members. He had drawn up a prospectus containing research questions that he wanted the Survey to focus on; these included understanding the period between the Bronze Age Indus Valley Civilization and the Achaemenid Empire, discerning the socio-cultural background to the Vedas, dating the Aryan invasion, and establishing a dating system for southern India prior to the sixth century CE. During his time in office he also achieved a 25 per cent budget increase for the Archaeological Survey, and convinced the government to agree to the construction of a National Museum of Archaeology, to be built in New Delhi.\n\nIn October 1944, he opened his six-month archaeological field school in Taxila, where he instructed various students from across India in the methodologies of the discipline. Wheeler became very fond of his students, with one of them, B. B. Lal, later commenting that \"behind the gruff exterior, Sir Mortimer had a very kind and sympathetic heart\". Throughout his period in India, his students were some of the only individuals to whom Wheeler warmed; more widely, he was annoyed by what he saw as the idleness, incompetence and corruption of Indian society. Initially focusing on the northwest of the subcontinent, Wheeler was particularly fascinated by the Bronze Age Indus Valley Civilization. On his initial inspection of the Indus Valley sites of Mohenjo-daro and Harappa, he organised a very brief excavation which revealed fortifications around both settlements. He later led a more detailed excavation at Harappa, where he exposed further fortifications and established a stratigraphy for the settlement.\n\nTurning his attention to southern India, Wheeler discovered remnants of a Roman amphora in a museum, and began excavations at Arikamedu, revealing a port from the first century CE which had traded in goods from the Roman Empire. The excavation had been plagued by severe rains and tropical heat, although it was during the excavation that World War II ended; in celebration, Wheeler gave all his workers an extra rupee for the day. It has since been alleged that while Wheeler took credit for discovering the significance of this site, it had previously been established by A. Aiyappan, the Superintendent of the Government Museum in Madras, and the French archaeologist Jouveau Dubreuil, with Wheeler intentionally ignoring their contribution. He later undertook excavations of six megalithic tombs in Brahmagiri, Mysore, which enabled him to gain a chronology for the archaeology of much of southern India.\n\nWheeler established a new archaeological journal, \"Ancient India\", planning for it to be published twice a year. He had trouble securing printing paper and faced various delays; the first issue was released in January 1946, and he would release three further volumes during his stay. Wheeler married Kim Collingridge in Simla, before he and his wife took part in an Indian Cultural Mission to Iran. The Indian government had deemed Wheeler ideal to lead the group, which departed via train to Zahidan before visiting Persepolis, Tehran, Isfahan, Shiraz, Pasargadae, and Kashan. Wheeler enjoyed the trip, and was envious of Tehran's archaeological museum and library, which was far in advance of anything then found in India. Crossing into Iraq, in Baghdad the team caught a flight back to Delhi. In 1946, he was involved in a second cultural mission, this time to Afghanistan, where he expressed a particular interest in the kingdom of ancient Bactria and visited the archaeology of Balkh.\n\nWheeler was present during the 1947 Partition of India into the Dominion of Pakistan and the Union of India and the accompanying ethnic violence between Hindu and Muslim communities. He was unhappy with how these events had affected the Archaeological Survey, complaining that some of his finest students and staff were now citizens of Pakistan and no longer able to work for him. He was based in New Delhi when the city was rocked by sectarian violence, and attempted to help many of his Muslim staff members escape from the Hindu-majority city unharmed. He further helped smuggle Muslim families out of the city hospital, where they had taken refuge from a violent Hindu mob. As India neared independence from the British Empire, the political situation had changed significantly; by October 1947 he was one of the last British individuals in a high-up position within the country's governing establishment, and recognised that many Indian nationalists wanted him to also leave.\n\nAs their relationship had become increasingly strained, his wife had left and returned to Britain. Although hoping to leave his post in India several months early, he was concerned for his economic prospects, and desperately searched for a new position. Through friends in the British archaeological community, he was offered a job as the Secretary of the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales, although he was upset that this would mean a drop in his professional status and income and decided to turn it down. Instead, he agreed to take up a chair in the Archaeology of the Roman Provinces at the Institute of Archaeology. In addition, the Pakistani Minister of Education invited him to become the Archaeological Adviser to the Pakistani government; he agreed to also take up this position, on the condition that he would only spend several months in the country each year over the next three.\n\nReturning to London, Wheeler moved into the Hallam Street flat where his son and daughter-in-law were living. Wheeler and the latter disliked each other, and so in summer 1950 he moved out and began renting an apartment in Mount Street. A year later he moved into his wife's house in Mallord Street, in an unsuccessful hope of reigniting their relationship.\nTaking up his part-time professorship at the Institute of Archaeology, he began to lecture to students almost every day. There, he found that he developed a relationship of mutual respect with the director, Childe, despite their strong personal and professional differences. In April 1949, after the retirement of Cyril Fox, Wheeler was nominated for the Presidency of the Society of Antiquaries, but lost to James Mann; many archaeologists, including Childe and O. G. S. Crawford, resigned from the Society in protest, deeming Wheeler to have been a far more appropriate candidate for the position. Wheeler was nevertheless elected director of the Society. In 1950 he was awarded the Petrie Medal, and in 1952 was knighted. That same year he was invited to give the Norton lectures for the Archaeological Institute of America, and while in the United States was also awarded the Lucy Wharton Drexel medal at Pennsylvania. He nevertheless disliked the country, and in later life exhibited anti-Americanism.\n\nWheeler spent three months in Pakistan during early 1949, where he was engaged in organising the fledgling Pakistani Archaeological Department with the aid of former members of the Archaeological Survey and new students whom he recruited. The Minister of Education, Fazlur Rahman, was sympathetic to Wheeler's plans, and the government agreed to establish a National Museum of Pakistan in Karachi, which opened in April 1950. Wheeler himself was appointed the first President of the Pakistani Museums Association, and found himself as a mediator in the arguments between India and Pakistan over the redistribution of archaeological and historic artefacts following the partition. He also wrote a work of archaeological propaganda for the newly formed state, \"Five Thousand Years of Pakistan\" (1950).\n\nTo instruct new Pakistani students in the methods of archaeology, in early 1950 Wheeler ran a training excavation at Mohenjo-daro; there, he was joined by the British student Leslie Alcock, who spoke both Punjabi and Urdu and who was appointed a site supervisor by Wheeler. This excavation proved to be the only one for which Wheeler would not write and publish a full excavation report. Instead, he made reference to its findings in his book \"The Indus Civilization\", published as part of the series The Cambridge History of India. His relationship with the Pakistani government had become strained, and so he declined to return to work for them for a third year.\n\nWheeler had been keen to return to excavation in Britain. Based on the one he had organised in India, Wheeler developed an archaeological training course, which he ran at Verulamium in the summer of 1949 to instruct British students in the methodologies of excavation. In summer 1950, he was invited by the Royal Commission on Historical Monuments to direct a trial excavation at Bindon Hill in Dorset. It was a leisurely project which he treated as a seaside holiday. He was invited by the Ancient Monuments Department of the Ministry of Works to excavate the Stanwick Iron Age Fortifications in North Riding, Yorkshire, which he proceeded to do over the summers of 1951 and 1952. Aided by many old friends and colleagues from within the British archaeological scene, he was joined by Alcock and Alcock's wife, among others. Wheeler published his report on the site in 1954.\n\nIn 1949 Wheeler was appointed Honorary Secretary of the British Academy after Frederic G. Kenyon stepped down from the position. According to Piggott, the institution had \"unhappily drifted into senility without the excuse of being venerable\", and Wheeler devoted much time attempting to revitalise the organisation and ensured that Charles Webster was appointed President. Together, Wheeler and Webster sought to increase the number of younger members of the Academy, increasing the number of Fellows who were permitted to join and proposing that those over 75 years of age not be permitted to serve on the organisation's council; this latter measure was highly controversial, and though defeated in 1951, Wheeler and Webster were able to push it through in 1952. In doing so, Piggott stated, Wheeler helped rid the society of its \"self-perpetuating gerontocracy\". To aid him in these projects, Wheeler employed a personal assistant, Molly Myers, who remained with him for the rest of his life.\n\nIn 1956, Wheeler retired from his part-time professorship at the Institute of Archaeology. Childe was also retiring from his position of director that year, and Wheeler involved himself in the arguments surrounding who should replace him. Wheeler vocally opposed the nomination of W.F. Grimes, deeming his career undistinguished; instead, he championed Glyn Daniel as a candidate, although ultimately Grimes was selected. That year, Wheeler's marriage broke down, and he moved from his wife's house to a former brothel at 27 Whitcomb Street in central London. From 1954 to 1959, he served as the President of the Society of Antiquaries, and after resigning supported Ian Richmond as his replacement; however, Joan Evans was selected. From 1964 to 1966 he served as Chairman of the Ancient Monuments Board, stepping down when he concluded that he was too old for the role.\nIn December 1963, Wheeler underwent a prostate operation that went wrong, and was hospitalised for over a month.\nIn November 1967, Wheeler became a Companion of Honour, and in 1968 he became a Fellow of the Royal Society.\n\nWheeler became famous in Britain as \"the embodiment of popular archaeology through the medium of television\". In 1952, Wheeler was invited to be a panelist on the new BBC television series, \"Animal, Vegetable, Mineral?\". Based on the American quiz programme \"What in the World?\", the show was hosted by Glyn Daniel and featured three experts in archaeology, anthropology, and natural history being asked to identify artefacts which had been selected from various museums. However, Wheeler is alleged to have prepared for the show by checking beforehand which objects had been temporarily removed from display. The show proved popular with British audiences, and would air for six more years. It brought Wheeler to public attention, resulting in a Television Personality of the Year award for him in 1954. He also appeared in an episode of \"Buried Treasure\", an archaeology show also hosted by Daniel, in which the pair travelled to Denmark to discuss Tollund Man. In 1957, he appeared in a second episode of \"Buried Treasure\", for which he travelled to Pakistan to discuss that nation's archaeology, and in 1958 again appeared in an episode, this time on the site of Great Zimbabwe in Southern Rhodesia. In 1959 he presented his own three-part series on \"The Grandeur That Was Rome\", for which he travelled to Hadrian's Wall, Pompeii, and Leptis Magna; the show failed to secure high ratings, and was Wheeler's last major foray into television. Meanwhile, he also made appearances on BBC radio, initially featuring on the John Irving series \"The Archaeologist\", but later presenting his own eight-part series on Roman Britain and also appearing on the series \"Asian Club\", which was aimed primarily at newly arrived migrants from the Indian subcontinent.\n\nFrom 1954 onward, Wheeler began to devote an increasing amount of his time to encouraging greater public interest in archaeology, and it was in that year that he obtained an agent. Oxford University Press also published two of his books in 1954. The first was a book on archaeological methodologies, \"Archaeology from the Earth\", which was translated into various languages. The second was \"Rome Beyond the Imperial Frontier\", discussing evidence for Roman activity at sites like Arikamedu and Segontium. In 1955 Wheeler released his episodic autobiography, \"Still Digging\", which had sold over 70,000 copies by the end of the year. In 1959, Wheeler wrote \"Early India and Pakistan\", which was published as part as Daniel's \"Ancient Peoples and Places\" series for Thames and Hudson; as with many earlier books, he was criticised for rushing to conclusions.\n\nHe authored the section entitled \"Ancient India\" for Piggott's edited volume \"The Dawn of Civilisation\", which was published by Thames and Hudson in 1961, before writing an introduction for Roger Wood's photography book \"Roman Africa in Colour\", which was also published by Thames and Hudson. He then agreed to edit a series for the publisher, known as \"New Aspects of Antiquity\", through which they released a variety of archaeological works. The rival publisher Weidenfeld & Nicolson had also persuaded Wheeler to work for them, securing him to write many sections of their book, \"Splendours of the East\". They also published his 1968 book \"Flames Over Persepolis\", in which Wheeler discussed Persepolis and the Persian Empire in the year that it was conquered by Alexander the Great.\n\nIn 1954, the tour company R.K. Swan invited Wheeler to provide lectures on the archaeology of ancient Greece aboard their Hellenic cruise line, which he did in 1955. In 1957, he then gave a guided tour of the archaeology of the Indian subcontinent for the rival tour company Fairways and Swinford. After Swans appointed him to the position of chairman of their Hellenic Cruise division, he made two fortnight tours a year, in spring and summer. In late 1969 he conducted the Swans tour to the Indian subcontinent, visiting the south and east of the republic as well as Ceylon. During this period, Wheeler had kept in contact with many of his friends and colleagues in India and Pakistan, helping to secure them work and funding where possible.\n\nWheeler had continued his archaeological investigations, and in 1954 led an expedition to the Somme and Pas de Calais where he sought to obtain more information on the French Iron Age to supplement that gathered in the late 1930s. Pakistan's Ministry of Education invited Wheeler to return to their country in October 1956. Here, he undertook test excavations at Charsada to determine a chronology of the site. In 1965, he agreed to take on the position of President of the Camelot Research Committee, which had been established to promote the findings of excavations at Cadbury Castle in Somerset run by his friends Ralegh Radford and Alcock; the project ended in 1970. He also agreed to sit as Chairman of the Archaeological Committee overseeing excavations at York Minster, work which occupied him into the 1970s. Wheeler had also continued his work with museums, campaigning for greater state funding for them. While he had become a trustee of the institution in 1963, he achieved publicity for vocally criticising the British Museum as \"a mountainous corpse\", lambasting it as being poorly managed and overcrowded with artefacts. The BBC staged a public debate with the museum director Frank Francis.\n\nAs Honorary Secretary of the British Academy, Wheeler focused on increasing the organisation's revenues, thus enabling it to expand its remit. He developed personal relationships with various employees at the British Treasury, and offered the Academy's services as an intermediary in dealing with the Egypt Exploration Society, the British School at Athens, the British School at Rome, the British School at Ankara, the British School in Iraq, and the British School at Jerusalem, all of which were then directly funded independently by the Treasury. Accepting this offer, the Treasury agreed to double its funding of the Academy to £5,000 a year. Approaching various charitable foundations, from 1955 Wheeler also secured funding from both the Pilgrim Trust and the Nuffield Foundation, and in 1957 then secured additional funding from the Rockefeller Foundation.\n\nWith this additional money, the Academy was able to organise a survey of the state of the humanities and social sciences in the United Kingdom, authoring a report that was published by Oxford University Press in 1961 as \"Research in the Humanities and the Social Sciences\". On the basis of this report, Wheeler was able to secure a dramatic rise in funding from the British Treasury; they increased their annual grant to £25,000, and promised that this would increase to £50,000 shortly after. According to his later biographer Jacquetta Hawkes, in doing so Wheeler raised the position of the Academy to that of \"the main source of official patronage for the humanities\" within the United Kingdom, while Piggott stated that he set the organisation upon its \"modern course\".\n\nTo improve Britain's cultural influence abroad, Wheeler had been urging the establishment of a British Institute of History and Archaeology in East Africa, touring East Africa itself in August 1955. In 1956 the Academy requested £6,000 from the Treasury to fund this new institution, to which they eventually agreed in 1959. The Institute was initially established in Dar es Salaam in 1961, although later relocated to Nairobi. Meanwhile, Wheeler had also been campaigning for the establishment of a British Institute of Persian Studies, a project which was supported by the British Embassy in Tehran; they hoped that it would rival the successful French Institute in the city. In 1960, the Treasury agreed, with the new institution being housed on the premises of the University of Tehran. He further campaigned for the establishment of a British Institute in Japan, although these ideas were scrapped amid the British financial crisis of 1967.\n\nWheeler retained an active interest in the running of these British institutions abroad; in 1967 he visited the British School in Jerusalem amid the Six-Day War between Israel and its Arab neighbours, and in January 1968 visited the Persian institute with the archaeologist Max Mallowan and Mallowan's wife Agatha Christie, there inspecting the excavations at Siraf. In 1969 he proceeded to the Italian city of Rome to inspect the British School there. That year, he resigned as Honorary Secretary of the Academy. The position became a salaried, professional one, with the numismatist Derek Allen taking on the position.\n\nRecognising his stature within the archaeological establishment, the government appointed Wheeler as the British representative on a UNESCO project to undertake a programme of rescue archaeology in the Nile Valley ahead of the construction of the Aswan Dam, which was going to flood large areas of Egypt and Sudan. Personally securing UK funding for the project, he deemed it an issue of national and personal shame when he was unable to persuade the British government to supply additional funding for the relocation of the Abu Simbel temples. In October 1968, he took part in a UNESCO visit to Pakistan to assess the state of Mohenjo-daro, writing the project's report on how the archaeological site could best be preserved. His involvement with UNESCO continued for the rest of his life, and in March 1973 he was invited to the organisation's conference in Paris.\n\nDuring his final years, Wheeler remained involved in various activities, for instance sitting on the advisory panel of the \"Antiquity\" journal and the Management Committee of the Royal Archaeological Institute. In March 1971, the archaeologist Barry Cunliffe and a number of his undergraduate students at the University of Southampton organised a conference on the subject of \"The Iron Age and its Hillforts\" to celebrate Wheeler's eightieth birthday. Wheeler attended the event, whose conference proceedings were published as a festschrift for the octogenarian. In spring 1973, Wheeler returned to BBC television for two episodes of the archaeology-themed series \"Chronicle\" in which he discussed his life and career. The episodes were well received, and Wheeler became a close friend of the show's producer, David Collison.\n\nIn the 1970s, Wheeler became increasingly forgetful and came to rely largely on his assistant, Molly Myres, to organise his affairs. Amid increasing ill health, in September 1973 he moved full-time into Myres's house in Leatherhead, Surrey, although he continued to use his central London flat during day-trips to the city. There, he authored a final book, \"My Archaeological Mission to India and Pakistan\", although much of the text was culled from his previous publications; it was published by Thames and Hudson in 1976. After suffering a stroke, Wheeler died at Myers' home on 22 July 1976. In memoriam, the British Academy, Royal Academy, and Royal Society flew their flags at half-mast. Wheeler's funeral was held with full military honours at a local crematorium, while a larger memorial service was held in St James's Church, Piccadilly in November.\n\nWheeler was known as \"Rik\" among friends. He divided opinion among those who knew him, with some loving and others despising him, and during his lifetime, he was often criticised on both scholarly and moral grounds. The archaeologist Max Mallowan asserted that he \"was a delightful, light-hearted and amusing companion, but those close to him knew that he could be a dangerous opponent if threatened with frustration\".\nHis charm offensives were often condemned as being insincere. During excavations, he was known as an authoritarian leader but favoured those who he thought exhibited bravery by standing up to his authority. Hence, he has been termed \"a benevolent dictator\". He was meticulous in his writings, and would repeatedly revise and rewrite both pieces for publication and personal letters. Throughout his life, he was a heavy smoker.\n\nWheeler expressed the view that he was \"the least political of mortals\". Despite not taking a strong interest in politics, Wheeler was described by his biographer as \"a natural conservative\"; for instance, during his youth he was strongly critical of the Suffragettes and their cause of greater legal rights for women. Nevertheless, he was \"usually happy to advance young women professionally\", something that may have been based largely on his sexual attraction toward them. He expressed little interest in his relatives; in later life, he saw no reason to have a social relationship with people purely on the basis of family ties.\n\nWheeler was married three times. In May 1914, Wheeler married Tessa Verney. Tessa became an accomplished archaeologist, and they collaborated until she died in 1936. Their only child, Michael Mortimer Wheeler, was born in January 1915; he became a barrister. Following Tessa's death, in 1939, Wheeler married Mavis de Vere Cole, widow of the prankster Horace de Vere Cole. Their relationship was strained; Cole's diaries revealed that Wheeler physically hit her when she annoyed him. In 1945 Mortimer Wheeler married his third wife, Margaret \"Kim\" Collingridge. Although they became estranged in 1956, Collingridge's Catholicism prevented divorce. Meanwhile, Wheeler was well known for his conspicuous promiscuity, favouring young women for one-night stands, many of whom were his students. He was further known for having casual sex in public places. That behaviour led to much emotional suffering among his various wives and mistresses of which he was aware. As a result of his behaviour, later archaeologist Gabriel Moshenska informed a reporter from the \"Daily Mail\" that Wheeler had developed a reputation as \"a bit of a groper and a sex pest and an incredible bully as well\".\n\nWheeler has been termed \"the most famous British archaeologist of the twentieth century\" by archaeologists Gabriel Moshenska and Tim Schadla-Hall. Highlighting his key role in encouraging interest in archaeology throughout British society, they stated that his \"mastery of public archaeology was founded on his keen eye for value and a showman's willingness to package\nand sell the past\". This was an issue about which Wheeler felt very strongly; writing his obituary for the \"Biographical Memoirs of Fellows of the Royal Society\", the English archaeologist Stuart Piggott noted that Wheeler placed \"great importance to the archaeologist's obligation to the public, on whose support the prosecution of his subject ultimately depended.\"\n\nPiggott believed that Wheeler's greatest impact was as \"the great innovator in field techniques\", comparing him in this respect to Pitt-Rivers. Piggott stated that the \"importance of Wheeler's contribution to archaeological technique, enormous and far-reaching, lies in the fact that in the early 1920s he not only appreciated and understood what Pitt-Rivers had done, but saw that his work could be used as a basis for adaptation, development and improvement.\" L. C. Carr stated that it was for his methodological developments, oft termed \"the Wheeler Method\", that Wheeler was best known; in this she contrasted him with those archaeologists who were best known for their associations with a specific archaeological site, such as Arthur Evans and Knossos or Leonard Woolley and Ur.\n\nWheeler was well known for his publications on archaeological matters; Carr stated that both Wheeler and his first wife emphasised \"technical rigour and a full presentation of materials unearthed, as well as a literary discussion of their meaning calculated to appeal to a larger audience.\" Focusing on Wheeler's publications regarding South Asian archaeology, Sudeshna Guha noted that he \"produced an assemblage of image-objects that embodied the precision he demanded from excavation photography.\"\nMallowan noted that \"Immediate and swift presentation of results was more important to him than profound scholarship, although his critical sense made him conscious that it was necessary to maintain high standards and he would approve of nothing that was slipshod.\" Jacquetta Hawkes commented that he made errors in his interpretation of the archaeological evidence because he was \"sometimes too sure of being right, too ready to accept his own authority\". She asserted that while Wheeler was not an original thinker, he had \"a vision of human history that enabled him to see each discovery of its traces, however small, in its widest significance.\"\n\nPiggott claimed that Wheeler's appointment as Director-General of the Archaeological Survey of India represented \"the most remarkable archaeological achievement of his career, an enormous challenge accepted and surmounted in the autocratic and authoritarian terms within which he could best deploy his powers as administrator and excavator. No other archaeologist of the time, it seems fair to remark, could have come near to attaining his command of incisive strategy and often ruthless tactics which won him the bewildered admiration and touching devotion of his Indian staff.\" The Indian archaeologist Dilip K. Chakrabarti later stated that Wheeler's accomplishments while in India were \"considerable\", particularly given the socio-political turmoil of independence and partition. Chakrabarti stated that Wheeler had contributed to South Asian archaeology in various ways: by establishing a \"total view\" of the region's development from the Palaeolithic onward, by introducing new archaeological techniques and methodologies to the subcontinent, and by encouraging Indian universities to begin archaeological research. Ultimately, Chakrabarti was of the opinion that Wheeler had \"prepared the archaeology of the subcontinent for its transition to modernity in the post-Partition period.\" Similarly, Peter Johansen praised Wheeler for systematising and professionalising Indian archaeology and for \"instituting a clearly defined body of techniques and methods for field and laboratory work and training.\"\n\nOn Wheeler's death, H.D. Sankalia of Deccan College, Pune, described him as \"well known among Old World archaeologists in the United States\", particularly for his book \"Archaeology from the Earth\" and his studies of the Indus Valley Civilisation. In its 2013 obituary of the English archaeologist Mick Aston, \"British Archaeology\" magazine – the publication of the Council for British Archaeology – described Aston as \"the Mortimer Wheeler of our times\" because despite the strong differences between their personalities, both had done much to bring archaeology to the British public. However, writing in 2011, Moshenska and Schadla-Hall asserted that Wheeler's reputation has not undergone significant revision among archaeologists, but that instead he had come to be remembered as \"a cartoonish and slightly eccentric figure\" whom they termed \"Naughty Morty\".\nCarr described the Institute of Archaeology as \"one of the [Wheeler] couple's most permanent memorials.\"\n\nIn 1960, Ronald William Clark published a biography titled \"Sir Mortimer Wheeler\". FitzRoy Somerset, 4th Baron Raglan reviewed the volume for the journal \"Man\", describing \"this very readable little book\" as being \"adulatory\" in tone, \"but hardly more so than its subject deserves.\" In 1982, the archaeologist Jacquetta Hawkes published a second biography, \"Mortimer Wheeler: Adventurer in Archaeology\". Hawkes admitted she had developed \"a very great liking\" for Wheeler, having first met him when she was an archaeology student at the University of Cambridge. She believed that he had \"a daemonic energy\", with his accomplishments in India being \"almost superhuman\". Ultimately, she thought of him as being \"an epic hero in an anti-heroic age\" in which growing social egalitarianism had stifled and condemned aspects of his greatness.\n\nIn the 2000 film \"Hey Ram\", the lead character, Saket Ram (played by Kamal Haasan) and his friend, Amjad Khan (played by Shah Rukh Khan) are shown as employees of Wheeler, who was portrayed by Lewis K. Elbinger, before the 1947 Hindu-Muslim riots. In a 2003 volume of the \"South Asian Studies\" journal, Sudeshna Gusha published a research article examining Wheeler's use of photography in his excavations and publications in the Indian subcontinent.\nIn 2011, the academic journal \"Public Archaeology\" published a research paper by Moshenska and Schadla-Hall that analysed Wheeler's role in presenting archaeology to the British public. Two years later, the \"Papers from the Institute of Archaeology\" issued a short comic strip by Moshenska and Alex Salamunovich depicting Wheeler's activities in studying the archaeology of Libya during World War II.\n\nA bibliography of Wheeler's published books was included by Piggott in his obituary, and again by Hawkes in her biography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2609064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2609064", "title": "Municipal services", "text": "Municipal services\n\nMunicipal services or city services refer to basic services that residents of a city expect the city government to provide in exchange for the taxes which citizens pay. Basic city services may include sanitation (both sewer and refuse), water, streets, the public library, schools, food inspection, fire department, police, ambulance, and other health department issues and transportation. City governments often operate or contract for additional utilities like electricity, gas and cable television. Mumbai even provides a lighthouse service.\n\nThe available municipal services for any individual municipality will depend on location, history, geography, statutes and tradition. Provided services may vary from country to country or even within a country. Services may be run directly by a department of the municipality or be sub-contracted to a third party.\n\nFunding for the services provided varies with the municipality in question. Funding can include tax revenue (property tax, income tax, municipal sales tax), fees (such as building permits), Grants from other Governments, fines such as speeding or parking violations, usage fees for optional services, or other sources such as profits from municipally owned or operated utilities.\nProbably the greatest influence is the country in which the municipality is located.\n\nIn the UK, a combination of local taxation based on property value and central government grants is the main means of funding core services. This is supplemented by nominal fees for services provided (e.g. leisure facilities). For some services, a competitive fee is charged compared to commercial concerns that which allows a profit to be made. For other services, full commercial rates may be charged with municipally owned utilities or commercial property, for example. For the most part, services will be part subsidized by the municipality or fully subsidized by the municipality.\nIn recent years, UK councils have been given some leeway in finding alternative funding which can be the simple sponsorship of flower baskets to the trading of surplus buildings and land for services from private firms. In certain notorious cases, local councils have used council funds to speculate on the money markets.\n\nMunicipalities in other countries may have other methods of funding (e.g. local income taxes or even from the profits of utilities or industrial concerns fully owned by the municipality).\n\nIn the United Kingdom, until their abolishment, Municipal Corporations were powerful organizations. In their Victorian heyday, with the growth of urbanization and industrialization, they could be responsible for the promotion, organization, funding, building and management of everything from housing to water supplies, power in the form of both gas and electricity, to the introduction of electric trams; almost any activity that the city fathers thought\nwas necessary to promote the economic, social and environmental well-being of their municipality.\n\nHowever, special powers needed to be granted through Local Acts in Parliament (for example, the Manchester Corporation Waterworks Act needed for the construction of Manchester's reservoirs). As times changed, the Municipal Corporations continued to try to advance the cause of their municipalities. For example, in the 1930s aviation was the new technological frontier and municipalities worked to promote themselves with the development of municipal airports.\n\nFor the most part, UK municipalities lost their in-house utilities to the nationalisation and centralisation of public utilities. One notable exception is Kingston upon Hull, which still has a municipally-owned telephone company known as Kingston Communications.\n\nOne trend in the UK, (in the name of efficiency) has been the privatisation of departments, the transfer of staff and assets to the new organisation and the contracting with the new organization for services to the council. This model has been used for services from road cleaning to social housing, to leisure facilities, though no council yet seems to dare to do so for more high-profile services such as schools and social services.\n\nIn the UK, fire and police services are not under direct municipal control, even when a force can be closely identified with a specific municipal area such as Greater London. However, fire and police services are in part paid for by a surcharge to local taxation, and although they have no say in operational matters, local government appoints members to a committee to oversee the running of each force.\n\nWhere there is a substantial industrial urban population isolated from other conurbations, or when and where the growth in demand is so great that it becomes uneconomic or impractical for commercial organisations to provide, the municipalities concerned may assume functions necessary for the growth and functioning of the city.\n\nThis was the case in Victorian England also today in Mumbai, for example, the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai and Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport are the major municipal organizations which are needed to allow the city to function. The Los Angeles Department of Water and Power is a legacy of Los Angeles, which found itself in a similar position of rapid growth at the beginning of the last century. The similarly isolated Johannesburg has chosen to run its services as standalone and self-funding, corporate entities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52562028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52562028", "title": "Mystical Marriage of St Catherine and Saints (Lotto)", "text": "Mystical Marriage of St Catherine and Saints (Lotto)\n\nMystical Marriage of St Catherine and Saints is an oil painting by Lorenzo Lotto, signed, now in the Collections of the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica (Palazzo Barberini), Rome, Italy.\n\nThe work was commissioned by the merchant Felice Cassotti from Lotto while the latter was working in Bergamo. The painting hung in the nuptial bedroom of Cassotti's son. The work is signed on the Madonna's throne. The painting once hung in the Palazzo Quirinale.\n\nLotto in 1523 had painted a portrait of the married couple, Marsilio Cassotti and Faustina Assonica, a work now on display in the Prado Museum. In this depiction of the mystical marriage of Saint Catherine of Alexandria, the saint kneeling accepts from the child Jesus a rose, the latter symbol of love and martyrdom; in her left hand is a marital ring. Hanging from a sash is a purse with the name of Christ; the sash has a medallion with an angel holding a balance. Around these figures are St Jerome paging his bible, with lion at the feet (left lower corner); St George dressed as a knight with his lance (left upper corner); beside him hovering behind the Virgin is St Sebastian with an arrow; Saint Nicholas of Myra with a bishop's crozier with three gold spheres, conversing with St Anthony Abbot with bells (right upper corner). Like many other Lotto paintings, the figures seem engaged in movement.\n"}
{"id": "30872739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30872739", "title": "New media art", "text": "New media art\n\nNew media art refers to artworks created with new media technologies, including digital art, computer graphics, computer animation, virtual art, Internet art, interactive art, video games, computer robotics, 3D printing, cyborg art and art as biotechnology. The term differentiates itself by its resulting cultural objects and social events, which can be seen in opposition to those deriving from old visual arts (i.e. traditional painting, sculpture, etc.). This concern with medium is a key feature of much contemporary art and indeed many art schools and major universities now offer majors in \"New Genres\" or \"New Media\" and a growing number of graduate programs have emerged internationally. New media art often involves interaction between artist and observer or between observers and the artwork, which responds to them. Yet, as several theorists and curators have noted, such forms of interaction, social exchange, participation, and transformation do not distinguish new media art but rather serve as a common ground that has parallels in other strands of contemporary art practice. Such insights emphasize the forms of cultural practice that arise concurrently with emerging technological platforms, and question the focus on technological media, per se.\n\nNew Media concerns are often derived from the telecommunications, mass media and digital electronic modes of delivering the artworks involve, with practices ranging from conceptual to virtual art, performance to installation.\n\nThe origins of new media art can be traced to the moving photographic inventions of the late 19th century such as the zoetrope (1834), the praxinoscope (1877) and Eadweard Muybridge's zoopraxiscope (1879). From the 1920s through the 1950s, various forms of kinetic and light art, from Thomas Wilfred's 'Lumia' (1919) and 'Clavilux' light organs to Jean Tinguely's self-destructing sculpture 'Homage to New York' (1960) can be seen as progenitors of new media art.\n\nIn 1958 Wolf Vostell becomes the first artist who incorporates a television set into one of his works. The \"Black Room Cycle\". This installation is part of the collection of the Berlinische Galerie.\n\nDuring the 1960s the development of then new technologies of video produced the new media art experiments of Nam June Paik, and Wolf Vostell with the installation \"6 TV Dé-coll/age\" in 1963 at the Smolin Gallery in New York. A. Michael Noll, and multimedia performances of E.A.T., Fluxus and Happening. \nIn 1983, Roy Ascott introduced the concept of \"distributed authorship\" in his worldwide telematic project La Plissure du Texte for Frank Popper's \"Electra\" at the Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris. The development of computer graphics at the end of the 1980s and real time technologies then in the 1990s combined with the spreading of the Web and the Internet favored the emergence of new and various forms of interactive art by Ken Feingold, Lynn Hershman Leeson, David Rokeby, Ken Rinaldo, Perry Hoberman, Tamas Waliczky; telematic art by Roy Ascott, Paul Sermon, Michael Bielický; Internet art by Vuk Ćosić, Jodi; virtual and immersive art by Jeffrey Shaw, Maurice Benayoun, Monika Fleischmann, Wolfgang Strauss and large scale urban installation by Rafael Lozano-Hemmer. In Geneva, the Centre pour l'Image Contemporaine or CIC coproduced with Centre Georges Pompidou from Paris and the Museum Ludwig in Cologne the first internet video archive of new media art.\n\nSimultaneously advances in biotechnology have also allowed artists like Eduardo Kac to begin exploring DNA and genetics as a new art medium.\n\nInfluences on new media art have been the theories developed around interaction, hypertext, databases, and networks. Important thinkers in this regard have been Vannevar Bush and Theodor Nelson, whereas comparable ideas can be found in the literary works of Jorge Luis Borges, Italo Calvino, and Julio Cortázar.\n\nIn the book \"New Media Art\", Mark Tribe and Reena Jana named several themes that contemporary new media art addresses, including computer art, collaboration, identity, appropriation, open sourcing, telepresence, surveillance, corporate parody, as well as intervention and hacktivism. In the book \"Postdigitale\", Maurizio Bolognini suggested that new media artists have one common denominator, which is a self-referential relationship with the new technologies, the result of finding oneself inside an epoch-making transformation determined by technological development. Nevertheless, new media art does not appear as a set of homogeneous practices, but as a complex field converging around three main elements: 1) the art system, 2) scientific and industrial research, and 3) political-cultural media activism. There are significant differences between scientist-artists, activist-artists and technological artists closer to the art system, who not only have different training and technocultures, but have different artistic production. This should be taken into account in examining the several themes addressed by new media art.\n\nNon-linearity can be seen as an important topic to new media art by artists developing interactive, generative, collaborative, immersive artworks like Jeffrey Shaw or Maurice Benayoun who explored the term as an approach to looking at varying forms of digital projects where the content relays on the user's experience. This is a key concept since people acquired the notion that they were conditioned to view everything in a linear and clear-cut fashion. Now, art is stepping out of that form and allowing for people to build their own experiences with the piece. Non-linearity describes a project that escape from the conventional linear narrative coming from novels, theater plays and movies. Non-linear art usually requires audience participation or at least, the fact that the \"visitor\" is taken into consideration by the representation, altering the displayed content. The participatory aspect of new media art, which for some artists has become integral, emerged from Allan Kaprow's \"Happenings\" and became with Internet, a significant component of contemporary art. \n\nThe inter-connectivity and interactivity of the internet, as well as the fight between corporate interests, governmental interests, and public interests that gave birth to the web today, fascinate and inspire a lot of current new media art.\n\nMany new media art projects also work with themes like politics and social consciousness, allowing for social activism through the interactive nature of the media. New media art includes \"explorations of code and user interface; interrogations of archives, databases, and networks; production via automated scraping, filtering, cloning, and recombinatory techniques; applications of user-generated content (UGC) layers; crowdsourcing ideas on social- media platforms; narrowcasting digital selves on \"free\" websites that claim copyright; and provocative performances that implicate audiences as participants\".\n\nOne of the key themes in new media art is to create visual views of databases. Pioneers in this area include Lisa Strausfeld, Martin Wattenberg and Alberto Frigo. Database aesthetics holds at least two attractions to new media artists: formally, as a new variation on non-linear narratives; and politically as a means to subvert what is fast becoming a form of control and authority.\n\nThe emergence of 3D printing has introduced a new bridge to new media art, joining the virtual and the physical worlds. The rise of this technology has allowed artists to blend the computational base of new media art with the traditional physical form of sculpture. A pioneer in this field was artist Jonty Hurwitz who created the first known anamorphosis sculpture using this technique.\n\nAs the technologies used to deliver works of new media art such as film, tapes, web browsers, software and operating systems become obsolete, New Media art faces serious issues around the challenge to preserve artwork beyond the time of its contemporary production. Currently, research projects into New media art preservation are underway to improve the preservation and documentation of the fragile media arts heritage (see DOCAM - Documentation and Conservation of the Media Arts Heritage).\n\nMethods of preservation exist, including the translation of a work from an obsolete medium into a related new medium, the digital archiving of media (see the Rhizome ArtBase, which holds over 2000 works, and the Internet Archive), and the use of emulators to preserve work dependent on obsolete software or operating system environments. \n\nAround the mid-90s, the issue of storing works in digital form became a concern. Digital art such as moving images, multimedia, interactive programs, and computer-generated art has different properties than physical artwork such as oil paintings and sculptures. Unlike analog technologies, a digital file can be recopied onto a new medium without any deterioration of content. One of the problems with preserving digital art is that the formats continuously change over time. Former examples of transitions include that from 8-inch floppy disks to 5.25-inch floppies, 3-inch diskettes to CD-ROMs, and DVDs to flash drives. On the horizon is the obsolescence of flash drives and portable hard drives, as data is increasingly held in online cloud storage.\n\nMuseums and galleries thrive off of being able to accommodate the presentation and preservation of physical artwork. New media art challenges the original methods of the art world when it comes to documentation, its approach to collection and preservation. Technology continues to advance, and the nature and structure of art organizations and institutions will remain in jeopardy. The traditional roles of curators and artist are continually changing, and a shift to new collaborative models of production and presentation is needed.\n\nIn New Media programs, students are able to get acquainted with the newest forms of creation and communication. New Media students learn to identify what is or isn't \"new\" about certain technologies. Science and the market will always present new tools and platforms for artists and designers. Students learn how to sort through new emerging technological platforms and place them in a larger context of sensation, communication, production, and consumption.\n\nWhen obtaining a bachelor's degree in New Media, students will primarily work through practice of building experiences that utilize new and old technologies and narrative. Through the construction of projects in various media, they acquire technical skills, practice vocabularies of critique and analysis, and gain familiarity with historical and contemporary precedents. \n\nIn the United States, many Bachelor's and Master's level programs exist with concentrations on Media Art, New Media, Media Design, Digital Media and Interactive Arts.\n\nLeading art theorists and historians in this field include Roy Ascott, Maurice Benayoun, Christine Buci-Glucksmann, Jack Burnham, Mario Costa, Edmond Couchot, Fred Forest, Oliver Grau, Margot Lovejoy, Dominique Moulon, Robert C. Morgan, Christiane Paul, Catherine Perret, Frank Popper, and Edward A. Shanken.\n\nThe term New Media Art is generally applied to disciplines such as:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31148481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31148481", "title": "Out of the Ordinary Festival", "text": "Out of the Ordinary Festival\n\nOut of the Ordinary Festival was an annual family- and eco-friendly festival near Hailsham (grid reference TQ 569 088) in the Sussex countryside. It celebrated the autumn equinox in England with a variety of live music, talks and workshops, performances, activities for children with green and ethical businesses, many powered by solar panels and wind generators. It started as a development of The Antiquarian Society in Brighton. The festival took place for three days in the autumn and had a capacity of 5,000 people. The festival was held at Knockhatch Park, a setting which comprises an ex-landfill site (Arlington Landfill Site, near Hailsham - grid reference TQ 569 088).\n\nThe Out of the Ordinary business was started by Stuart Mason and his partner Emily in 2007 on the Sussex Downs near the vale of the Long Man of Wilmington.\n\nWorkshops and talks included such topics as prehistoric culture, ancient knowledge and earth mysteries. This included yoga, meditation, alternative healing and the chance to use a variety of telescopes, a planetarium and laser guided tours of the constellations. Notable speakers include Professor Gordon Hillman, Jonathan Cainer, Andy Thomas, Edmund Marriage, Leo Rutherford and Robert Bauval.\n\nThe festival was divided into seven areas named after each of the seven chakras. The music area was appropriately named the throat chakra with two stages, the Ootopia and Peace Stage, as well as an indoor bar and the Conscious Cabaret. In 2011, the site had a new, simplified layout comprising the four elements, though still paying tribute to the seven chakras that defined its inner workings. The festival has an eclectic mix of music ranging from folk to reggae and electronic and DJs. Sussex Downs College co-sponsored a solar-powered music stage at the festival in 2010.\n\nOut of the Ordinary Festival has featured many acts that are well known in the alternative scene. Notable performers include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39626889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39626889", "title": "Phonemic contrast", "text": "Phonemic contrast\n\nPhonemic contrast refers to a minimal phonetic difference, that is, small differences in speech sounds, that makes a difference in how the sound is perceived by listeners, and can therefore lead to different mental lexical entries for words. For example, whether a sound is voiced or unvoiced (consider /b/ and /p/ in English) matters for how a sound is perceived in many languages, such that changing this phonetic feature can yield a different word (consider \"pat\" and \"bat\" in English); see Phoneme. Other examples in English of a phonemic contrast would be the difference between \"leak\" and \"league;\" the minimal difference of voicing between [k] and [g] does lead to the two utterances being perceived as different words. On the other hand, an example that is not a phonemic contrast in English is the difference between and . In this case the minimal difference of vowel length is not a contrast in English and so those two forms would be perceived as different pronunciations of the same word \"seat\".\n\nDifferent phonetic realizations of the same phoneme are called allophones. Specific allophonic variations, and the particular correspondences between allophones (realizations of speech sound) and phonemes (underlying perceptions of speech sound) can vary even within languages. For example, speakers of Quebec French often express voiceless alveolar stops (/t/) as an affricate. An affricate is a stop followed by a fricative and in this case sounds like the English 'ch' sound. While this is an allophone of a single phoneme to speakers of Quebec French, to speakers of Belgian French this is heard as a stop followed by a fricative, or in other words as two different phonemes. This was accomplished by asking Belgian French speakers to repeat an utterance containing this affricate backwards, which resulted in the production of two separate sounds. If these speakers understood the affricate as a single sound, an allophone meant to stand in for the standard pronunciation [t], and not as two consecutive sounds, they would have reproduced the affricate exactly as is when they repeated the utterance backwards.\n\nIt is important not to mistake allophones, which are different manifestations of the same phoneme in speech, with allomorphs, which are morphemes that may sound different in different contexts. An example of allomorphy would be the English plural marker /s/, which can manifest as [s], [z], and (cats , dogs ).\n\nAn accidental gap is a phenomenon in which a form that could plausibly be found in a given language according to its rules is not present. In phonology, this is called a phonological gap, and it refers to instances in which a set of related segments containing various contrasts, e.g. between voicing (whether or not the vocal cords vibrate) or aspiration (whether a puff of air is released), is lacking a particular member. A contrast that the language could have had is then not realized within the actual language. For example, Thai has several sets of stop consonants that differ in terms of voicing and aspiration, yet the language has no voiced velar consonant [ɡ], as shown in the table of Thai stop contrasts below.\n\nWhen infants acquire a first language, at first they are sensitive to all phonetic contrasts, including those that constitute phonemic contrasts not found in the language they are presently acquiring. Sensitivity to phonemic contrasts is important for word learning, and so infants will have to figure out which contrasts are important for their language and which are not. Some contrasts will confer a change in meaning between words, and others will not. Over the first year of life, infants become less sensitive to those contrasts not found in their native language. Studies have shown, however, that infants do not necessarily pay attention to phonemic differences when acquiring new lexical entries, e.g., 14-month-olds given the made-up labels \"daw\" and \"taw\" for new objects used these labels interchangeably to refer to the same object, even though they were capable of perceiving the phonetic difference between /d/ and /t/ and recognizing these as separate phonemes.\n\nIn bilingual infants (those acquiring two languages simultaneously), contrasts must be both acquired and kept separate for the two languages, as contrasts present in one language may be allophonic in the other, or some of the phonemes of one language may be absent entirely in the other. The necessity of this separation has implications for the study of language acquisition and in particular simultaneous bilingualism, as it relates to the question of whether infants acquiring multiple languages have separate systems for doing so or whether there is a single system in place to handle multiple languages. (See Crosslinguistic influence.)\n\nGenerally speaking those talented in learning new phonemic contrasts will retain at least some of their talent throughout their lives. In other words, someone who began becoming bilingual early in life will have similar aptitudes or difficulties that they would have if becoming bilingual later in life according to their individual capabilities. These individual abilities are not related to one's ability to process psychoacoustic information but are actually tied to parts of the brain that are specifically meant to process speech. These areas are where an individual's talent or lack thereof for pronouncing and distinguishing non-native phonemes comes from. Distinguishing between different phonemes in one's L2 can be a difficult task. For example, Dutch L2 English speakers were less capable of distinguishing between English /æ/ and /ɛ/ than Dutch-English bilinguals. Native speakers of Japanese hear English /l/ and English /r/ as a single sound whereas for English speakers there is a significant difference, distinguishing ‘long’ from ‘wrong’ and ‘light’ from ‘right’.\n\nNative English speaking L2 learners also have difficulty learning to hear the difference between sounds that are to them one and the same but to speakers of other languages are different phonemes. Take for instance the presence of aspirated and unaspirated alveolar stops that both appear frequently in English, oftentimes without the speaker knowing about the existence of two allophones instead of one. In other languages the difference between these two allophones is obvious and significant to the meaning of the word. There is also the example of Arabic, which has two sounds that an English speaker would hear and classify as a voiced glottal fricative, only one of which is actually a voiced glottal fricative. The other, written as ⟨ħ⟩, is a voiceless pharyngeal fricative. Distinguishing Hindi retroflex sounds can also be very difficult for English speakers.\n\nBilingual speakers often find themselves in situations where a pair of phonemes are contrasted in one of their languages but not in the other. Babies are born with the ability to discriminate all phonemes, but as they age their ability to perceive phoneme boundaries lessens in ways specifically tailored to the language they hear as their input. In order to perceive a particular phonemic contrast, then, the pair must be contrastive in one's input. Generally, the earlier a language and/or phonemic contrast is learned, or is part of the input, the more sensitive a listener is to the phonemic boundaries of that pair and therefore better able to perceive the difference between the contrasting sounds. It is still possible, though, for late learners to acquire the ability to perceive contrasts that are not part of their first language.\n\nConsider a study of Japanese-English speakers: Japanese speakers with minimal English exposure were asked to listen to the sounds /r/ and /l/ and discriminate between them. Because there is no contrast between these sounds in Japanese participants did not show an ability to make the discrimination. Japanese speakers who had frequent English exposure were able to discriminate /r/ and /l/ much more effectively, nearly at the rate of native speakers. Consider also a study of Spanish monolingual, Catalan monolingual, and Spanish-Catalan bilingual children: Catalan utilizes two vowels that are similar to, and partly correspond to, a single vowel in Spanish. This means that a speaker of Catalan needs to recognize /e/ and /ε/ as different, contrasting sounds, while a Spanish speaker only need recognize one phoneme, /e/ ([ɛ] is an allophone of /e/ in Spanish). Spanish-Catalan bilinguals, then, need to be able to recognize the contrast to accommodate their Catalan language. In one study, Catalan monolingual infants appeared to accurately discriminate between the two vowels while Spanish monolingual infants did not appear to make discriminations. Spanish-Catalan bilingual infants also did not appear to discriminate between the two vowels at 8 months of age.\n\nResearchers suggest that input plays a large role in this discrepancy; perhaps the infants had not yet received enough input to have gained the ability to make the discrimination, or perhaps their dual input, Spanish and Catalan, both spoken with accents affected by the other as their parents were bilingual speakers, had made the contrast more difficult to detect. There was evidence, however, that by 12 months of age the bilingual infants were able to discriminate the sounds that were contrastive only in Catalan. Thus, it appears that bilinguals who have a particular phonemic contrast in one of their languages but not in the other are, in fact, able to gain the ability to make the discrimination between the contrasting phonemes of the language that has the pair, but that age and especially input are major factors in determining ability to make the discrimination.\n\nAn interlanguage phonemic contrast (diaphonemic contrast) is the contrast required to differentiate between two cognate forms coming from two compared varieties or dialects. Within languages that have particular phonemic contrasts there can be dialects that do not have the contrast or contrast differently (such as American South dialect pin/pen merger, where the two are not contrasted, but in other American dialects they are).\n\nSome speech phenomena may lead to the neutralization of phonemic contrasts, which means that a contrast that exists in the language is not utilized in order to differentiate words due to sound change. For example, due to final-obstruent devoicing, Russian бес ('demon', phonemically /bʲes/) and без ('without', phonemically /bʲez/) are pronounced identically in isolation as [bʲɛs].\n\n"}
{"id": "35297668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35297668", "title": "Prem Adda", "text": "Prem Adda\n\nPrem Adda is an Indian Kannada language action film. Prem,Meka Murali Krishna and Kriti Kharbanda are in the lead roles of the film. The film is directed by Mahesh Babu and the film music is scored by V. Harikrishna. The film is the remake of Tamil film \"Subramaniapuram\". Prem is acting under another director for the first time in this movie.\n\n\nPrem Adda has six songs composed by V. Harikrishna, one song was taken from original movie. All the songs are super hit in the market.\n\nThe film was originally intended to be released on 30 November 2012. Later, the film released on 7 December 2012 to generally positive reviews. Prem's acting in the movie was praised. It has been called a violent movie by reviewers. The film received an 'A' certificate from the Film Censor Board. It grossed 6 crores.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26404211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26404211", "title": "Pretty Baby....", "text": "Pretty Baby....\n\n\"Pretty Baby...\" is an episode of the British television soap opera \"EastEnders\", broadcast on BBC One on 31 January 2008. It is the only \"EastEnders\" episode to feature just one character and the first of its kind in soap. It was written by Tony Jordan, directed by Clive Arnold and produced by Diederick Santer. The episode features Dot Branning, played by June Brown, recording a message for her husband Jim Branning (John Bardon), who is in hospital recovering from a stroke, reflecting Bardon's real-life stroke, which saw him written out of the show and allowed the opportunity for the single-hander to arise. Jordan's scripting was inspired by Samuel Beckett's \"Krapp's Last Tape\".\n\nThe episode was watched by 8.86 million viewers and received mixed reviews from critics. Brown's acting attracted praise, with both Nancy Banks-Smith of \"The Guardian\" and Mark Wright of \"The Stage\" doubting that any other actress would have been capable of carrying Dot's monologue. Banks-Smith and \"The Times\" Tim Teeman questioned Dot's characterisation, and Teeman ultimately found the episode \"much-loved character overkill\", while Gerard O'Donovan of \"The Daily Telegraph\" called Brown's performance \"mesmerising\" but said the episode was \"fuss over nothing\". Brown received a British Academy Television Award nomination for Best Actress in 2009 for her performance in the episode.\n\nIt is night time, and as Dot Branning (June Brown) makes herself a cup of cocoa at home, she records a message on a tape recorder for her husband Jim (John Bardon), who is in hospital recovering from a stroke. Dot tells Jim everyone is missing him, and that she has been dreading recording the message. She talks about her Christian faith and remembers her childhood, her first marriage to Charlie Cotton (Christopher Hancock) and her friendship with Ethel Skinner (Gretchen Franklin). She talks about when she was evacuated to Wales during the Second World War and how she did not cry when she left her mother. She says she was happy moving away to live with her guardians, a Welsh couple named Gwen and Will, as they made her feel special, and recalls the happiest day of her life. She remembers how Will would sing \"Pretty Baby\" to her at night, but says since then everyone she has cared about has died. She finishes by telling Jim that the hospital staff want to send him home, but she fears she will not be able to cope and concludes she is better on her own.\n\nOn 14 November 2007, it was announced that former \"EastEnders\" scriptwriter Tony Jordan had been contacted by Controller of BBC Drama Production John Yorke with an idea for an episode and that Jordan had returned to \"EastEnders\" having written the script for the episode. The single-hander episode was announced the next day, the first episode of any soap opera to feature just one character. Jordan had wanted to write a solo episode for \"EastEnders\" – well known for its two-hander episodes – for some time, but the opportunity had never arisen until Bardon had a stroke in real life, which was reflected in storyines when Jim was said to have suffered a stroke when visiting relatives off screen. Cast and crew were grateful for the opportunity to make the episode but were aware it had come about due to the suffering of somebody they loved. Brown was initially sceptical that her character could carry an entire episode by herself, but stated that Dot has a lot of history so there was a lot to call upon.\n\nWhen writing the script, Jordan had in his head an image of Samuel Beckett's play \"Krapp's Last Tape\". The script was 27 pages long, instead of the normal average of about 65, due to lack of stage directions. Clive Arnold was asked to direct the episode, and was allowed to input more into the script than would be normal, which he said was due to his good working relationship with Jordan. Jordan also gave Brown the opportunity to change anything she wanted to. Arnold was careful that the episode would not alienate regular \"EastEnders\" viewers by making it too left of field, ensuring that it would be recognisable as an \"EastEnders\" episode, and made sure viewers would identify with the character, emphasising her state of mind with visual links. Brown found her lines for the episode easy to learn as they \"flowed\" and the script was well written. Arnold and Brown worked closely together, rehearsing and working on the script in detail. Rehearsals went on for a number of weeks and after being able to judge the pace of the episode, Arnold was able to introduce choreography and stage directions. He stated that the rehearsals were invaluable as he, Brown and Jordan could work together to develop and tweak the script as they progressed. He broke the script down into scenes to aid Brown's performance by giving her one scene to concentrate on per day of filming.\n\nThe episode was filmed over a number of afternoons at the end of 2007, with each day's filming beginning with a repeat of the last section from the previous day, to help blend each scene into the next. It was filmed with a \"single camera mentality\" but with up to five cameras running to give Brown a \"freedom of performance away from hitting marks or favouring one particular camera position.\" This also helped in the case of technical problems, meaning that second takes were not necessary. Brown cried when she read the script and though she did not cry during filming, she had expected to, planning to pause the tape recorder if she did. She stated that the most difficult part of the script was the line about Jim being \"here, but not here\" because she felt that way about Bardon. Arnold admitted to \"[wiping] away the tears\" many times and noted that several other crew cried, and that one of the toughest things about it was that it mirrored real-life events. Brown found the episode easy to film due to the fact there were no other cast members to make mistakes, and because she \"knew the character backwards\" and \"exactly how she'd behave and what she'd feel and [...] her history.\" She praised Arnold and the crew, stating that the episode was \"lovely\" to make and she felt \"very fortunate to be given the opportunity.\" The performance was edited in post production after being committed to tape, where usually all scenes are vision mixed, and the usual \"EastEnders\" theme tune was replaced at the end of the episode with Tony Jackson's \"Pretty Baby\".\n\nOvernight figures indicated that the episode averaged 8.7 million viewers and a 37% audience share. Official figures gave the episode ratings of 8.86 million for its original airing and 740,000 for its 10pm repeat on BBC Three. Brown's performance in the episode was praised by Robert Hanks of \"The Independent\" who wrote: \"I don't ever remember hearing anybody on a soap talk like this before. I mean, like a real person, with real feelings, such as self-pity and a desperate urge for self-preservation. Brown conveyed the seedy gloom of it all beautifully, as well.\" Nancy Banks-Smith of \"The Guardian\" deemed Brown possibly the only member of the cast, with the exception of Barbara Windsor (Peggy Mitchell), capable of carrying such a monologue, opining that she \"carried it off magnificently\". She took issue with Dot's characterisation, however, believing that Dot is presented as the serial's \"moral compass\", and would not leave her husband in a nursing home.\n\nJim Shelley from the \"Daily Mirror\" praised Jordan's writing and Brown's acting, saying \"tonight's episode of \"EastEnders\" is as powerful and poignant a piece of drama as you will see on TV all year\". Shelley opined that \"June [...] proves what the soaps can achieve when they use actors of genuine class and let them show what they are capable of\" and stated \"The fact that co-star John Bardon [...] is recovering from a stroke in real life adds an extra terrible pathos to the episode.\" Cole Moreton of \"The Independent\" wrote \"The preview disc had revealed it to be a mesmerising piece of television, a kind of cor blimey Samuel Beckett, in which Brown conveyed her character's conflicting emotions beautifully.\" Mark Wright of \"The Stage\" praised Brown's acting as \"amazing\", observing that she made the episode look \"effortless\" and commenting: \"I don't think there's another soap actress out there who could carry this.\" Virgin Media selected the episode as showcasing one of the best ever soap opera performances, deeming Brown's portrayal \"comic and endearing\" and the episode \"never less than riveting.\"\n\nHowever, reviews were not uniformly positive. Tim Teeman posed the question in \"The Times\": \"I know she's a national institution and June Brown plays her like a dream, but was last night's Dot Cotton extravaganza really that great? Or even necessary?\" Teeman opined that: \"Quite rightly, the producers want to eke as much gold out of the character and actress as possible: both are fantastic. But this was much-loved character overkill.\" He noted that Jordan's script worked best as Dot remembered Ethel, but assessed that the episode was overly indulgent, and did not reveal anything \"substantially new\" about Dot. As with Banks-Smith's review, Teeman felt that the episode was incompatible with Dot's former characterisation, suggesting that her Christian faith ought to have tempered her decision not to care for Jim. He felt that overall, the episode was somewhat dull and boring, describing Dot as an \"EastEnders\" \"jewel\" who should be cherished, not turned into a \"drag act\".\n\n\"The Guardian\" Gareth McLean described the episode as a \"bold move\" on the part of the \"EastEnders\" producers in deviating from the serial's usual format, and found it to be \"compelling and brave\", but \"not as convincing as it should be\". \"The Daily Telegraph\" Gerard O'Donovan felt that Brown gave a \"mesmerising\" performance, but was critical of the episode as a whole, concluding: \"Overall [...] the feeling couldn't be avoided that in the greater scheme of things this was a fuss over nothing. Had it been a swan song, it would have been a worthy one. But doubtless Dot will be out and about again tonight, fag in hand, quoting from the Good Book. Enjoyable as this Albert Square indulgence was, I suspect that most fans will be hoping this one-hander remains a one-off.\" Leigh Holmwood for \"The Guardian\" suggested that viewers may have agreed with O'Donovan's assessment, highlighting the fact that the episode received only 8.7 million viewers, compared to 9.4 million watching \"EastEnders\" the previous week. O'Donovan compared the episode to \"Krapp's Last Tape\", saying \"it must be said there were quite a few moments of positively (or perhaps that should be negatively) Beckettian bleakness here as Dot recalled, in painfully vivid detail, how time and time again 'life took away everything I ever cared about' and 'all that I ever 'ad, I lorst'.\"\n\nBrown was nominated in the Best Actress category at the 2009 British Academy Television Awards based on her performance in the episode, becoming the first soap actress nominated in the category since 1988, when Jean Alexander was shortlisted for her role as Hilda Ogden in \"Coronation Street\". She commented that she was proud to be nominated, but was not overly excited as: \"I don't believe anything is going to happen until it does, until you see your name on a paper or it actually happens and you have something in your hand.\" Brown lost out to Anna Maxwell Martin, but the show's executive producer, Diederick Santer, described the nomination as his proudest moment of 2009, saying: \"I'm not one to complain to the referee, but it's beyond me why she didn't win. Week in, week out, she turns out amazing performances. The audience knew it and we knew it. With the greatest respect to the actress who won, you could hear the audience in the Royal Festival Hall that night sigh with disappointment. It was a missed opportunity by BAFTA [...] to connect with a big audience.\" McLean agreed that Brown deserved to win, but commented on the awards: \"never underestimate snobbery towards soap.\" Brown spoke of the nomination in 2013, saying: \"You never [win] if you're in a soap. [...] I would've liked it, yes. I would've felt it had crowned my acting in a way, made it sound worthwhile, I think. So I didn't care that I didn't get nominated for any other awards that time!\"\n\n"}
{"id": "340401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340401", "title": "Public interest", "text": "Public interest\n\nPublic interest is \"the welfare or well-being of the general public\".\n\nEconomist Lok Sang Ho in his \"Public Policy and the Public Interest\" argues that the public interest must be assessed impartially and, therefore, defines the public interest as the \"\"ex ante\" welfare of the representative individual.\" Under a thought experiment, by assuming that there is an equal chance for one to be anyone in society and, thus, could benefit or suffer from a change, the public interest is by definition enhanced whenever that change is preferred to the status quo \"ex ante\". This approach is \"ex ante\", in the sense that the change is not evaluated after the fact but assessed before the fact without knowing whether one would actually benefit or suffer from it.\n\nThis approach follows the \"veil of ignorance\" approach, which was first proposed by John Harsanyi but popularized by John Rawls in his 1971 \"Theory of Justice\". Historically, however, the approach can be traced to John Stuart Mill, who, in his letter to George Grote, explained that \"human happiness, even one's own, is in general more successfully pursued by acting on general rules, than by measuring the consequences of each act; and this is still more the case with the general happiness, since any other plan would not only leave everybody uncertain what to expect, but would involve perpetual quarrelling...\"\n\nThe Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales argues that applying a detailed definition is likely to result in unintended consequences, in Acting in the Public Interest(2012). Instead, each circumstance needs to be assessed based on criteria such as the relevant public, wants, and constraints. The key to assessing any public interest decision is transparency of the decision-making process, including balancing competing interests.\n\n“Public interest law” is a term that became widely adopted in the United States during and after the social turmoil of the 1960s. It built upon a tradition exemplified by Louis Brandeis, who before becoming a U.S. Supreme Court justice incorporated advocacy for the interests of the general public into his legal practice. \nIn a celebrated 1905 speech, Brandeis decried the legal profession, complaining that “able lawyers have to a large extent allowed themselves to become adjuncts of great corporations and have neglected their obligation to use their powers for the protection of the people.” In the late 1960s and 1970s, large numbers of American law school graduates began to seek “relevance” in their work — wishing to have an effect on the social issues that were so visibly and hotly debated within American society at that time. They defined themselves as public interest lawyers in order to distinguish themselves from the “corporate adjuncts” referred to by Brandeis.\n\nPublic interest law does not describe a body of law or a legal field; the term was adopted to describe whom the public interest lawyers were representing, rather than what matters they would work on. Instead of representing powerful economic interests, they chose to be advocates for otherwise underrepresented individuals. Consequently, a significant current in public interest lawyering has always emphasized the need to provide legal services to those living in poverty. The term has grown, however, to encompass a broader range of activities of lawyers and non-lawyers working toward a multitude of objectives, including civil rights, civil liberties, women’s rights, consumer rights, environmental protection, and so on. Nevertheless, a common denominator for public interest lawyers in the United States and in a growing number of countries remains the ethic of “fighting for the little guy”—that is, representing the underrepresented and vulnerable segments of society.\n\nPublic interest has been considered as the core of \"democratic theories of government” and often paired with two other concepts, \"convenience\" and \"necessity\". Public interest, convenience and necessity appeared for the first time in the Transportation Act of 1920 and also appeared in the Radio Act of 1927. After that, these three concepts became critical criteria for making communication policies and solving some related disputes.\n\n"}
{"id": "334803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=334803", "title": "Public sector", "text": "Public sector\n\nThe public sector (also called the state sector) is the part of the economy composed of both public services and public enterprises. \n\nPublic services include public goods and governmental services such as the military, police, infrastructure (public roads, bridges, tunnels, water supply, sewers, electrical grids, telecommunications, etc.), public transit, public education, along with health care and those working for the government itself, such as elected officials. The public sector might provide services that a non-payer cannot be excluded from (such as street lighting), services which benefit all of society rather than just the individual who uses the service. Public enterprises, or state-owned enterprises, are self-financing commercial enterprises that are under public ownership which provide various private goods and services for sale and usually operate on a commercial basis.\n\nOrganizations that are not part of the public sector are either a part of the private sector or voluntary sector. The private sector is composed of the economic sectors that are intended to earn a profit for the owners of the enterprise. The voluntary, civic or social sector concerns a diverse array of non-profit organizations emphasizing civil society.\n\nThe organization of the public sector can take several forms, including:\n\n\nA borderline form is as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23023573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23023573", "title": "R. K. Gordon", "text": "R. K. Gordon\n\nRobert Kay Gordon (1887–1973) was an English scholar of medieval and early modern English literature and administrator at the University of Alberta in Canada.\n\nIn 1913, having graduated from the Universities of University of Toronto and Oxford, Gordon became administrator at the University of Alberta. In 1936 he was appointed as head of the Department of English and became a fellow of the Royal Society of Canada the same year. Between 1943 and 1945, he was elected Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Science. He retired from the university in 1950. His colleagues included F. M. Salter, E. Sonet and D. E. Cameron.\n\nGordon is quoted extensively in The Book of Imaginary Beings by Jorge Luis Borges. In the entry describing the Fastitocalon, Borges includes an extended quote from R.K. Gordon's Anglo Saxon Bestiary.\n\nGordon published widely in his field of English literature, displaying a wide range of interest, from Old English poetry and Chaucer to the Scottish novelists Sir Walter Scott and John Galt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54738050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54738050", "title": "RAISE Act", "text": "RAISE Act\n\nThe RAISE (Reforming American Immigration for Strong Employment) Act is a bill introduced in the United States Senate in 2017. Co-sponsored by Republican senators Tom Cotton and David Perdue, the bill seeks to reduce levels of legal immigration to the United States by 50% by halving the number of green cards issued. The bill would also impose a cap of 50,000 refugee admissions a year and would end the visa diversity lottery. The bill received the support of President Donald Trump, who promoted a revised version of the bill in August 2017, and was opposed by Democrats, immigrant rights groups, and some Republicans.\n\nThe bill is co-sponsored by Republican senators Tom Cotton of Arkansas and David Perdue of Georgia, who introduced the bill to the Senate on February 13, 2017, as S. 354. The bill was referred to the Senate Committee on the Judiciary.\n\nOn August 2, 2017, Cotton introduced a revised version of the bill, designated S. 1720; this bill was also referred to the Senate Committee on the Judiciary. President Donald Trump, along with Cotton and Perdue, announced it at the White House. Within the Trump White House, Trump advisers Stephen Miller and Steve Bannon promoted and helped shape the bill. The bill has not attracted any additional co-sponsors.\n\nThe bill would cut legal immigration by half, reducing the number of green cards from more than 1 million to about 500,000. The bill would also remove pathways for siblings and adult children of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents to apply for permanent lawful residency status in the U.S., limiting the family path to spouses and minor children. The bill would also impose a cap of 50,000 refugee admissions a year and would end the visa diversity lottery.\n\nIn promoting the legislation, Trump administration officials contend that the bill would increase economic growth and increase wages. This contention was challenged by economists, who \"overwhelmingly predict\" that cuts in immigration would have a negative impact on GDP growth. In April 2017, a group of more than 1,400 economists, with views ranging across the political spectrum, sent an open letter to Trump noting the \"near universal agreement\" on \"the broad economic benefit that immigrants to this country bring\" and urging him not to seek immigration cuts. The Penn Wharton Budget Model projects that the RAISE Act would increase per-capita GDP by 0.02 percent in the first decade, before falling in the long run by 2040. Cato Institute immigration policy analyst Alex Nowrasteh said that the legislation \"would do nothing to boost skilled immigration and it will only increase the proportion of employment-based green cards by cutting other green cards. Saying otherwise is grossly deceptive marketing.\"\n\nThe \"only evidence that the administration has cited as justifying its proposals\" is the work of economist George Borjas, who has defended the bill, arguing that it \"makes sense\" and that \"low-skill immigration, which would likely suffer the largest cuts in the proposed bill, imposes costs on taxpayers and it imposes costs on low-skill workers already here.\" Other economists have sharply contested Borjas's conclusions; economist Giovanni Peri stated that \"The average American worker is more likely to lose than to gain from immigration restrictions\" and \"most studies put the negative impact on low-skilled wages closer to zero,\" and Michael Clemens argues that Borjas's position is based on a study with critical flaws.\n\nThe bill and Trump's support for it was hailed by groups favoring restrictive immigration policies, such as NumbersUSA and the Federation for American Immigration Reform. CNBC journalist John Harwood viewed the bill as an appeal to Trump's anti-immigration base of Republican voters.\n\nThe bill is opposed by Democrats as well as some Republicans. Democratic National Committee chairman Tom Perez said that \"Trump wants to tear apart communities and punish immigrant families that are making valuable contributions to our economy.\" Democratic Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut called the bill \"nothing but a series of nativist talking points and regurgitated campaign rhetoric that completely fails to move our nation forward toward real reform.\" Seven of the eight Senators in the bipartisan \"Gang of Eight\" (four Democrats and four Republicans who co-sponsored a unsuccessful immigration-reform bill in 2013) denounced the bill. Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, for example, a member of the Gang of Eight, said the proposal would be \"devastating\" to South Carolina's economy. The eighth member of the Gang of Eight, Republican Senator Marco Rubio, said that he had \"a big difference of opinion with this bill is that it sets an arbitrary cap on the number of people that are able to come through with a green card.\"\n\nThe Congressional Hispanic Caucus and immigrant rights groups both condemned the legislation. The National Immigration Law Center called the bill \"cruel and un-American\" and issued a statement saying that it would \"devastate families, eliminating the traditional and long-accepted means by which family members such as grandparents, mothers, fathers and siblings are able to reunite with their families who have emigrated to the United States.\" The technology industry immigration-policy advocacy group FWD.us said the bill, if enacted, \"would severely harm the economy and actually depress wages for Americans.\" The Association of Public and Land-grant Universities and also oppose the bill, describing it as flawed and a step backward. The Anti-Defamation League also opposed the legislation, calling it \"cruel, anti-family and un-American.\"\n\nThe revised version of the bill (S. 1720) would introduce a points system as a means of determining eligibility for an immigration application. According to Sec. 220 of the bill, an immigrant who accrued 30 points under the following allocation scheme would be eligible to submit an application.\n\n"}
{"id": "4154911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4154911", "title": "Ricardo Piglia", "text": "Ricardo Piglia\n\nRicardo Piglia (November 24, 1941, Androgué, Argentina – January 6, 2017, Buenos Aires) was an Argentine author, critic, and scholar best known for introducing hard-boiled fiction to the Argentine public. \n\nBorn in Adrogué, Piglia was raised in Mar del Plata. He studied history in 1961-1962 at the National University of La Plata. \n\nRicardo Piglia published his first collection of fiction in 1967, \"La invasión\". He worked in various publishing houses in Buenos Aires and was in charge of the Serie Negra which published well-known authors of crime fiction including Dashiell Hammett, Raymond Chandler, David Goodis and Horace McCoy. A fan of American literature, he was also influenced by F. Scott Fitzgerald and William Faulkner, as well as by European authors Franz Kafka and Robert Musil.\n\nPiglia's fiction includes several collections of short stories as well as highly allusive crime novels, among them \"Respiración artificial\" (1980, trans. \"Artificial Respiration\"), \"La ciudad ausente\" (1992, trans. \"The Absent City\"), and \"Blanco nocturno\" (2010, trans. \"Nocturnal Target\"). His criticism has been collected in \"Criticism and Fiction\" (1986), \"Brief Forms\" (1999) and \"The Last Reader\" (2005).\n\nPiglia resided for a number of years in the United States. He taught Latin American literature at Harvard as well as Princeton University, where he was Walter S. Carpenter Professor of Language, Literature, and Civilization of Spain from 2001 to 2011. After retirement he returned with his wife to Argentina.\n\nIn 2013 he was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; he died of the disease on January 6, 2017, in Buenos Aires, Argentina.\n\nDuring his lifetime Piglia received a number of awards, including the Premio internacional de novela Rómulo Gallegos (2011), Premio Iberoamericano de las Letras (2005), Premio Planeta (1997), and the Casa de las Américas Prize (1967). In 2013 he won Chile's Manuel Rojas Ibero-American Narrative Award, and in 2014 he won the Diamond Konex Award as the best writer of the decade in Argentina. \n\nOn January 4, 2018, his memory was honored in New York City at \"Modos infintos de narrar: Homenaje a Ricardo Piglia,\" an event at which academics discussed the impact of his work on Latin American literature and intellectual history and his legacy as a literary critic and scholar.\n\nEssays\n\nNovels\n\nShort story collections\n\n\n"}
{"id": "974671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=974671", "title": "Spina", "text": "Spina\n\nSpina was an Etruscan port city, established by the end of the 6th century BCE, on the Adriatic at the ancient mouth of the Po, south of the lagoon which would become the site of Venice. The site of Spina was lost until modern times, when drainage schemes in the delta of the Po River in 1922 first officially revealed a necropolis of Etruscan Spina about four miles west of the commune of Comacchio. The fishermen of Comacchio, it soon turned out, had been the source of \"Etruscan\" vases (actually originally imported from Greece) and other artifacts that had appeared for years on the archeological black market. The archaeological finds from the burials of Spina were discovered with the help of aerial photography. Aside from the white reflective surfaces of the modern drainage channels there appeared in the photographs a ghostly network of dark lines and light rectangles, the former indicating richer vegetation on the sites of ancient canals. Thus the layout of the ancient trading port was revealed, now miles from the sea, due to the sedimentation of the Po delta. Spina may have had a Hellenised indigenous population.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "51505501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51505501", "title": "Suzi Gablik", "text": "Suzi Gablik\n\nSuzi Gablik (born 1934) in New York, New York, is an American artist, a prolific and influential visionary author and art critic, and a professor of art history and art criticism. She lives in Blacksburg, Virginia and lived in London for almost twenty years. A prevailing theme for Gablik, enunciated in \"Has Modernism Failed?\" and quoted in the Kirkus Reviews article about her book, \"The Reenchantment of Art\", states, \"Since the enlightenment ... our view of what is real has been organized around the hegemony of a technical and materialist world view ... we no longer have any sense of having a soul.\"\n\nIn 1951, after a summer studying at Black Mountain College, she entered Hunter College where she studied with Robert Motherwell and received her BA in 1955. After working primarily as a painter, she had her first solo show in 1966. Later, she turned her attention to collage.\n\nGablik has written articles for \"Art in America\" (for which she was the London correspondent for fifteen years), \"ARTnews\" (1962-1966), \"Times Literary Supplement\", and \"The New Criterion\",\nas well as for blogs. Chapters 2 and 5 (the final chapter) of her book \"Has Modernism Failed?\" (Thames & Hudson, 1982) are part of an online study guide about aesthetics. In her article \"Deconstructing aesthetics: Toward a responsible art,\" which appeared in the \"New Art Examiner\", she contended that \"The national framework of aesthetics—which has favored an ontology of objectification, permanence, and egocentricity—has hardened into a presumption that is conserving and reinforcing a reluctance to make art which is inherently communicative and compassionately responsive.\"\n\nGablik's first book was \"Pop Art Redefined\", co-authored with art critic John Russell. Her other books include: \"Has Modernism Failed?\" (1982), \"The Reenchantment of Art\" (1992), \"Conversations Before the End of Time\" (1995), \"Living the Magical Life: An Oracle Adventure\" (2002), and \"Magritte\" (1970), about the Belgian surrealist René Magritte, written while living with the Magrittes.\n\nGablik’s \"The Reenchantment of Art\" announced her disenchantment with “the compulsive and oppressive consumeristic framework in which we do our work,” and argued that a re-connection to the primordial and to ritual might allow “for a return of soul.” Instead of traditional forms of religion, however, Gablik sought out contemporary art that she believed broke out of the Western framework, championing the work of artists such as Frank Gohlke, Gilah Yelin Hirsch, Nancy Holt, Dominique Mazeaud, Fern Shaffer and Otello Anderson, Starhawk, James Turrell and Mierle Laderman Ukeles, in the book and in subsequent critical writing.\n\nIn addition to her critical articles, Gablik has conducted interviews with other artists, art critics or philosophers, such as Richard Shusterman. She has also written essays for exhibition catalogues of shows that she has curated.\n\nGablik taught at Virginia Commonwealth University's School of the Arts and Washington and Lee University, and has lectured at many others. Between 1976–1979, she participated in US International Communications Agency lecture tours in India, Hungary, Pakistan, and countries of South Asia. She participated in a March 7, 2013 podcast on the subject of \"Solastalgia and Creative Response\" with Angelo Manno and Glenn Albrecht. She also gave a presentation at the Fall 1986 Mountain Lake Symposium on \"Postmodernism and the Question of Meaning: For a New Spiritualism.\"\n\nGablik was born to Anthony J. Gablik and Geraldine Schwarz Gablik in New York, New York in 1934. She \"hung out with Jasper Johns\" and was an acquaintance of John Cage, Ad Reinhardt, Ray Johnson, and Robert Rauschenberg. In 2014, she donated a collection of her papers, lectures, notes, and other files to the Smithsonian Archives of American Art.\n"}
{"id": "1823869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823869", "title": "The Exodus", "text": "The Exodus\n\nThe Exodus is the founding myth of the Israelites. Spread over the books of Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, it tells of the enslavement that befell the children of Israel in Egypt, their liberation through the hand of Yahweh and the revelations at Sinai, and their wanderings in the wilderness up to borders of Canaan, the land their God has given them. Its message is that Israel was delivered from slavery by Yahweh and therefore belongs to him through the Mosaic covenant, the terms of which are that Yahweh will protect his chosen people for all time, so long as they will keep his laws and worship only him. The narrative and its laws remain central to Judaism, recounted daily in Jewish prayers and celebrated in festivals such as Passover, as well as serving as an inspiration and model for non-Jewish groups from early Protestants fleeing persecution in Europe to African-Americans striving for freedom and civil rights.\n\nThe traditions behind the Exodus story can be traced in the writings of the 8th-century BCE prophets, beyond which their history is obscured by centuries of transmission. No historical basis for the biblical Exodus story exists; instead, archaeology suggests a native Canaanite origin for ancient Israel.\n\nThe story of the Exodus is told in the books of Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, the last four of the five books of the Torah (also called the Pentateuch). It begins with the Israelites in slavery. Their prophet Moses leads them out of Egypt and through the wilderness to Mount Sinai, where Yahweh reveals himself to his people and establishes the Mosaic covenant: they are to keep his \"torah\" (i.e. law, instruction), and in return he will give them the land of Canaan. The Israelites accept the covenant and receive their laws, and, with Yahweh now present in their midst, journey on from Sinai, towards the promised land, but when told that the land is filled with giants they refuse to go on, and Yahweh condemns them to remain in the desert until the generation that left Egypt passes away. After thirty-eight years at the oasis of Kadesh Barnea the next generation travel on to the borders of Canaan, where Moses addresses them for the final time, reviewing their travels and giving them further laws. The Exodus ends with the death of Moses on Mount Nebo and his burial by Yahweh, while the Israelites prepare for the conquest of the land.\n\nThe climax of the Exodus is the covenant (binding legal agreement) between God and Israel mediated by Moses at Sinai: Yahweh will protect Israel as his chosen people for all time, and Israel will keep Yahweh's laws and worship only him. The covenant is described in stages: at Exodus 24:3–8 the Israelites agree to abide by the \"book of the covenant\" that Moses has just read to them; shortly afterwards God writes the \"words of the covenant\" – the Ten Commandments – on stone tablets; and finally, as the people gather in Moab to cross into Canaan, the land God has promised them, Moses makes a new covenant between Yahweh and Israel \"beside the covenant he made with them at Horeb\" (Deuteronomy 29:1). The laws are set out in a number of codes:\n\nScholars are broadly agreed that the publication of the Torah took place in the mid-Persian period (the 5th century BCE), echoing a traditional Jewish view which gives Ezra, the leader of the Jewish community on its return from Babylon, a pivotal role in its promulgation. The tradition behind it stretches back some two hundred years before then, to a point in the late 7th century BCE when various oral and written elements were drawn together into works which were the fore-runners of the Torah we know today. The first trace appears in the northern prophets Amos (possibly) and Hosea (certainly), both active in the 8th century BCE in northern Israel, but their southern contemporaries Isaiah and Micah show no knowledge of an exodus. The story may, therefore, have originated a few centuries earlier, perhaps the 9th or 10th BCE, and there are signs that it took different forms in Israel, in the Transjordan region, and in the southern Kingdom of Judah before being unified in the Persian era.\n\nMany theories have been advanced to explain the composition of the Torah, but two have been especially influential. The first of these, Persian Imperial authorisation, advanced by Peter Frei in 1985, holds that the Persian authorities required the Jews of Jerusalem to present a single body of law as the price of local autonomy. Frei's theory was demolished at an interdisciplinary symposium held in 2000, but the relationship between the Persian authorities and Jerusalem remains a crucial question. The second theory, associated with Joel P. Weinberg and called the \"Citizen-Temple Community\", proposes that the Exodus story was composed to serve the needs of a post-exilic Jewish community organised around the Temple, which acted in effect as a bank for those who belonged to it. The Torah (the Exodus story) served as an \"identity card\" defining who belonged to this community (i.e., to Israel), thus reinforcing Israel's unity through its new institutions.\n\nThe Exodus is at the centre of Jewish identity. It is remembered daily in Jewish prayers and celebrated each year at the feasts of Pesach (Passover) and Shavuot, the two being known respectively as \"the time of our freedom\" and \"the time our Torah was given\". The two are closely linked, with Pesach announcing that the freedom it introduces is only fully realised with the giving of the law (the Torah). A third Jewish festival, Sukkot, the Festival of Booths, commemorates how the Israelites lived in booths following the exodus from their previous homes in Egypt. The Exodus roots Jewish religion in history, in contrast to pagan religions which are oriented towards nature. The festivals now associated with the exodus (Passover, Shavuot, and Sukkot) began as agricultural and seasonal feasts but became completely subsumed into the central Exodus myth of Israel's deliverance from oppression at the hands of God. The idea that the relationship between God and Israel is defined by the covenant (\"brit\") made at Sinai is central to Jewish identity, together with the laws given to Israel and the thirteen attributes of God revealed there. The fringes worn at the corners of traditional Jewish prayer shawls are a physical reminder of the obligation to observe the laws given at the climax of Exodus: \"Look at it and recall all the commandments of the Lord\" (Numbers).\n\nThe Exodus has also resonated through non-Jewish culture. Some influences have been trivial but curiously significant – medieval Irish and Scottish legendary history, for example, derived the name of Scotland from Scota, supposedly a daughter of the pharaoh of the Exodus who later emigrated to the British isles. Others have been more significant: the hostility of the exodus tradition to the State (specifically to Egypt and the pharaoh) played a role in the Puritan Revolution in 17th-century England,\nmany early American settlers interpreted their flight from religious persecution in Europe to a new life overseas as a type of exodus, Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin recommended that the Great Seal of the United States show Moses leading the Israelites across the Red Sea, and African Americans suffering under slavery and racial oppression interpreted their situation in terms of the Exodus, making it a catalyst for social change. Mormon pioneers to Utah compared their journey to the biblical Exodus and adopted many place names.\n\nWhile the Exodus story is no older than the Babylonian exile, there are indications that some historical memories underlie it: the name of Moses is Egyptian, for example, and many scholars have found it improbable that a humiliating tradition of slavery would simply be invented. Egyptologist Jan Assmann suggests that it has no single origin, but rather combines numerous historical experiences into \"a coherent story that is fictional as to its composition but historical as to some of its components\" (Assmann, 2014). Thus the memory of Egyptian oppression may be based on the harsh treatment of Canaanites inside Canaan in the 2nd millennium, when the region was ruled by Egypt: these memories could later have been transferred to Egypt itself, and a new exodus story created. A historical Moses associated with a small group may have been later generalised into the savior of Israel, while the history of the Hyksos, who were Canaanite rulers of the Egyptian Delta in the 16th century BCE, may have formed the basis of the descent into Egypt and the exodus.\n\nThe meaning a reader takes away from a text depends on his or her understanding of the literary \"type\" to which it belongs: as one scholar puts it in his discussion of the Genesis creation myth, \"it makes an enormous difference whether the first chapters of Genesis are read as scientific cosmology, creation myth, or historical saga\" (Wood, 1990). There is an almost universal consensus among scholars that the Exodus story is best understood as myth. More specifically, its can be understood as a \"charter\" (or foundation) myth, a myth told to explain a society's origins and to provide the ideological foundation for its culture and institutions.\n\nAfter a century of research by archaeologists and Egyptologists the consensus of modern scholars is that the Bible does not give an accurate account of the origins of Israel. There is no indication that the Israelites ever lived in Ancient Egypt, and the Sinai Peninsula shows almost no sign of any occupation for the entire 2nd millennium BCE (even Kadesh-Barnea, where the Israelites are said to have spent 38 years, was uninhabited prior to the establishment of the Israelite monarchy). In contrast to the absence of evidence for the Egyptian captivity and wilderness wanderings, there are ample signs of Israel's evolution within Canaan from native Canaanite roots. While a few scholars discuss the historicity, or at least plausibility, of the Exodus story, the majority of archaeologists have abandoned it, in the phrase used by archaeologist William Dever, as \"a fruitless pursuit\".\n\nDetails point to a 1st millennium date for the composition of the narrative: Ezion-Geber (one of the Stations of the Exodus), for example, dates to a period between the 8th and 6th centuries BCE with possible further occupation into the 4th century BCE, and those place-names on the Exodus route which have been identified – Goshen, Pithom, Succoth, Ramesses and Kadesh Barnea – point to the geography of the 1st millennium rather than the 2nd. Similarly, Pharaoh's fear that the Israelites might ally themselves with foreign invaders seems unlikely in the context of the late 2nd millennium, when Canaan was part of an Egyptian empire and Egypt faced no enemies in that direction, but does make sense in a 1st millennium context, when Egypt was considerably weaker and faced invasion first from the Achaemenid Empire and later from the Seleucid Empire. The mention of the dromedary in Exodus 9:3 also suggests a later date – the widespread domestication of the camel as a herd animal is thought not to have taken place before the late 2nd millennium, after the Israelites had already emerged in Canaan, and they did not become widespread in Egypt until c. 200–100 BCE.\n\nThe chronology of the Exodus narrative is symbolic: for example, its culminating event, the erection of the Tabernacle as Yahweh's dwelling-place among his people, occurs in the year 2666 Anno Mundi (Year of the World, meaning 2666 years after God creates the world), and two-thirds of the way through a four thousand year era which culminates in or around the re-dedication of the Second Temple in 164 BCE.\n"}
{"id": "26487072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26487072", "title": "Third Way (United States)", "text": "Third Way (United States)\n\nThird Way is a Washington, D.C.–based public policy think tank founded in 2005. The think tank develops political and policy ideas, conducts public opinion research and hosts an array of public events, issues briefings, etc. The organization has four policy divisions: Economics, National Security, Clean Energy and Social Policy & Politics. Third Way develops and advocates for policies that it says represent the \"modern center-left ideas\".\n\nThird Way was honored as 2013 North American Think Tank of the Year by \"Prospect\", a British monthly current affairs magazine, for its \"original, influential, and rigorous work on the most pressing challenges facing people, governments, and businesses\". The think tank's supporters and advocates include Democratic politicians, other center-left think tanks and individual donors. Third Way's funding also partially comes from philanthropies, foundations and personal donations. In the past decade, Third Way has been directly involved in policy issues such as the benefits of energy innovation, student accountability measures under the Every Student Succeeds Act, deficit reduction, proposals to reform Medicare and Medicaid, the repeal of \"Don't ask, don't tell\" and new trade accords with Korea, Colombia and Panama.\n\nThird Way grew out of the nonprofit group Americans for Gun Safety (AGS), which was formed in 2000 with the goal of resetting the gun control movement and advancing gun safety laws by using moderate ideas that appealed to both sides of the debate. AGS' primary political project was around closing the gun show loophole in the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, through which people could purchase guns at gun shows without needing a background check. It helped pass two 2000 state-level ballot initiatives in Colorado and Oregon to close the gun show loophole there and championed federal legislation carried by Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT), which failed to pass. AGS was folded into Third Way in 2005 in the wake of the 2004 presidential election as a policy, messaging and strategy idea center and think tank. Third Way was cofounded by Jonathan Cowan, Matt Bennett, Jim Kessler and Nancy Hale.\n\nThird Way has four major policy programs. The Economic Program focuses on helping the American middle class succeed in the midst of growing global competition.\n\nThe National Security Program focuses on issues of security, foreign policy, surveillance and technology, public opinion and the United States military.\n\nThird Way has also houses a clean energy program that promotes a range of zero-emissions technologies, like carbon capture and advanced nuclear reactors as well as renewable energy, all in an effort to address the climate crisis. Finally, it has a Social Policy and Politics Program to advocate for change on progressive issues including marriage equality, education, marijuana, immigration and gun control. \n\nIn 2010, Third Way sponsored a report written by William Galston of the Brookings Institution and Elaine Kamarck of Harvard University's Kennedy School entitled \"Change You Can Believe In Needs a Government You Can Trust\". The report analyzed Americans' trust in government and reported it was in serious decline and could present significant challenges to the Obama administration's agenda. Third Way's other economic work has included rural reinvestment efforts, a plan to make opportunity more widely available to American middle class and defending the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.\n\nAs an example of Third Way's rural reinvestment program, Third Way developed the policies framed in Spurring Weatherization Investments in Rural America, which was introduced by Representative Jim Clyburn (D-South Carolina) and Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) as the Rural Energy Savings Program. Third Way argued for members of opposing parties to sit together at the President's annual address in 2011 and 2012.\n\nThird Way has recently worked on a campaign to evaluate the Democratic Party connection with voters after the 2016 presidential election. Along those lines, Third Way hosted consultations and meetings with politicians and strategists from around the country to develop a Democratic strategy for winning 2018 and 2020 elections. As of 2017, Third Way's economic program is undertaking a campaign to highlight the scarcity of opportunity as a root cause of income inequality.\n\nIn March 2018, Third Way released a report outlining a new cause for the Democratic Party and several policy ideas that the organization says \"redefines government's role in expanding the opportunity to earn\". \"The Washington Post\"'s coverage of the report considered it \"an opening bid in the 2020 'ideas primary'\". Other parts of Third Way's work are also related to politics. The organization has studied the battleground states and districts that will determine congressional majorities in 2018.\n\nFor example, their public opinion research and focus groups revealed that persuadable voters who backed Barack Obama and then Donald Trump saw Trump as focused on creating jobs and Democrats as \"working for someone else\". In its report on the findings, Third Way called for the Democratic Party to focus on becoming the Jobs Party to voters.\n\nThird Way has worked on the following policy issues:\n\nIn 2017, the Third Way think tank conducted a listening tour in rural Wisconsin as part of a political research effort to understand the results of the 2016 presidential election. This tour was the feature of an article in \"The Atlantic\" magazine, where reporter Molly Ball observed many focus group participants expressing strongly politically partisan views that challenged Third Way's ideology that political partisanship was not most people’s primary concern. Ball recounts hearing focus group participants blame things like government bureaucracy, changes in society and the family, young people, welfare recipients, Muslims, Republicans, Democrats, income inequality, gerrymandering and union rights for their problems. Despite this, Ball writes that Third Way summarized its findings in a short report that ignored all the sentiments heard on the tour which challenged Third Way's ideology and instead selectively highlighted sentiments which adhered to Third Way's ideology:\nAs a result of Ball's account, the validity of Third Way's research has come into question. However, Third Way strongly disputed Ball's claim in a public post. Third Way's Matt Bennett wrote in response: \"We are dismayed that in the story, Molly writes that we omitted information that is actually in the report we drafted about the WI visit. And she indicates that we have drawn conclusions that we do not reach and do not share\". He also stated:\n\nThe majority of the think tank's funding comes from individuals with close ties to the banking industry and its board of trustees consists mostly of investment bankers. Political commentator David Sirota suggested that the think tank's initiatives to combat Social Security expansion despite popular sentiment is because it would cause trustees of the think tank to pay higher taxes. Hunter of Daily Kos has suggested Third Way's ties to the banking industry is the reason for its opposition to Senator Elizabeth Warren's platform of Wall Street reform. Investigative journalist Lee Fang of The Nation alleges the think tank's ties to the Democratic Party are \"tenuous\" and that it exists to serve as a vehicle for corporate and right-wing interests to shape the economic policies of the party.\n"}
{"id": "2314874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2314874", "title": "Tragic mulatto", "text": "Tragic mulatto\n\nThe tragic mulatto is a stereotypical fictional character that appeared in American literature during the 19th and 20th centuries, from the 1840s. The \"tragic mulatto\" is an archetypical mixed-race person (a \"mulatto\"), who is assumed to be sad, or even suicidal, because they fail to completely fit in the \"white world\" or the \"black world\". As such, the \"tragic mulatto\" is depicted as the victim of the society in society divided by race, where there is no place for one who is neither completely \"black\" nor \"white\". This trope was also used by abolitionists in order to create a mixed-race, but white-appearing, slave that would serve as a tool to express sentimentality to white readers in an effort to paint slaves as \"more human\".\n\nThe related concept of the \"tragic half-breed\" or \"tragic mestizo\" involves the child of a white person and a Native American. Especially when such a person has a white mother and native father (and is thus excluded under most native tribes' matrilineal kinship from being considered legally native), the same basic tropes of dual societal rejection apply.\n\nThe female \"tragic octoroon\" was a stock character of abolitionist literature: a light-skinned woman raised as if a white woman in her father's household, until his bankruptcy or death has her reduced to a menial position and sold. She may even be unaware of her status before being so reduced. This character allowed abolitionists to draw attention to the sexual exploitation in slavery, and unlike the suffering of the field hands, did not allow slaveholders to retort that the sufferings of Northern mill hands were no easier, since the Northern mill owner would not sell his own children into slavery.\n\nThe \"tragic mulatta\" figure is a woman of biracial heritage who endures the hardships of African-Americans in the antebellum South, even though she may look white enough that her ethnicity is not immediately obvious. As the name implies, tragic mulattas almost always meet a bad end. Lydia Maria Child's 1842 short story \"The Quadroons\" is generally credited as the first work of literature to feature a tragic mulatta, to garner support for emancipation and equal rights. Child followed up \"The Quadroons\" with the 1843 short story \"Slavery's Pleasant Homes\", which also has a tragic mulatta character.\n\nWriter Eva Allegra Raimon notes that Child \"allowed white readers to identify with the victim by gender while distancing themselves by race and thus to avoid confronting a racial ideology that denies the full humanity of nonwhite women.\" The passing character, Clare Kendry, in Nella Larsen's \"Passing\" has been deemed a \"tragic mulatta\".\n\nGenerally, the tragic mulatta archetype falls into one of three categories:\n\n\nA common objection to this character is that she allows readers to pity the plight of oppressed or enslaved races, but only through a veil of whiteness — that is, instead of sympathizing with a true racial \"other\", one is sympathizing with a character who is made as much like one's own race as possible. The \"tragic mulatta\" often appeared in novels intended for women, also, and some of the character's appeal lay in the lurid fantasy of a person just like them suddenly cast into a lower social class after the discovery of a small amount of \"black blood\" that renders her unfit for proper marriage.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21785784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21785784", "title": "Tsagaan Salaa Rock Paintings", "text": "Tsagaan Salaa Rock Paintings\n\nThe Rock Paintings of Tsagaan Salaa are located in western Mongolia. Site is inside Altai Tavan Bogd National Park and was approved as part of a larger Petroglyphic Complexes of the Mongolian Altai World Heritage Site along with The Upper Tsagaan Gol Complex in 2011.\n\nWithin an area of roughly 15 km reside approximately 10,000 figures on the southern side of the White River Valley. Dating from the Neolithic to the Bronze Age, this massive collection of pictorials primarily depicts livestock and big game both individual and in large herds.\n\nThese rock paintings are rich not only in their numbers, but also in meanings, expressiveness, subject and compositions. They are important monuments of the art of the transition from ancient hunter-gatherer societies to livestock breeding and the beginning of the classic nomad economy in Mongolia.\nThis site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on August 1, 1996 in the Cultural category.\n\n"}
{"id": "33880691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33880691", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1757", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1757\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 1757 was unanimously adopted on 30 May 2007.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council today authorized the formation of an international tribunal to try suspects in the 2005 assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri, although some members warned that the move could have serious political repercussions because the Council was exceeding its authority and interfering in Lebanese affairs.\n\nBy a vote of 10 in favour to none against, with 5 abstentions ( China, Indonesia, Qatar, Russian Federation and South Africa), the Security Council, acting under Chapter VII of the Charter, adopted resolution 1757 (2007) authorizing the creation of the Special Tribunal for Lebanon. It gives the Lebanese Government until 10 June “to notify the United Nations in writing that the legal requirements for entry into force have been complied with”, thus allowing Lebanese factions 10 days to reach an agreement internally before it goes into effect.\n\nThe requirements agreed between the world body and Lebanon last November are attached to the resolution, along with the Tribunal’s 30-article founding statute. The measure responds to a request from Lebanese Prime Minister Fouad Siniora, but the country’s Parliament has not approved the plan because speaker Nabih Berri has not convened the chamber.\n\nMindful of the Lebanese people’s demand that all those responsible for the 14 February 2005 terrorist bombing that killed the former Lebanese Premier and 22 others be identified and brought to justice, the Council also requested Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, coordinating with, when appropriate, the Lebanese Government, to take the steps and measures necessary to establish the Tribunal “in a timely manner” and to report to the Council within 90 days on the implementation of the resolution. The site of the tribunal would be decided in consultations with Beirut and the country that would host it. Expenses for the tribunal would be borne by United Nations Member States, unless Lebanon could take that responsibility.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7199911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7199911", "title": "Workshop production", "text": "Workshop production\n\nA workshop production is a form of theatrical performance, in which a play or musical is staged in a modest form which does not include some aspects of a full production. For example, costumes, sets and musical accompaniment may be excluded, or may be included in a simpler form.\n\nOne common purpose of a workshop production is to provide a preview staging of a new work in order to gauge audience and critical reaction, following which some parts of the work may be adjusted or rewritten before the work's official premiere. Because a workshop production generally pays less for the rights to perform the play, workshop productions also provide an opportunity for smaller theatres to generate increased publicity by staging a popular or highly anticipated work for which a full production might be too costly. Some theatre companies, in fact, specialize exclusively in workshop productions; amateur and youth theatre companies, for example, are commonly structured on the workshop production model.\n\nSome fictional works, including the musical \"A Chorus Line\" and the television series \"Smash\", depict the audition and workshop processes of developmental theatrical productions.\n"}
