{"id": "58942351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58942351", "title": "Aesthetic judgement", "text": "Aesthetic judgement\n\nAesthetic judgement, often also referred to as ‘taste’, is a concept in aesthetics which attempts to explain the nature of judgements of beauty and whether or not these judgements are legitimate.\n\nThe key idea for most traditional theories of taste was that objects possessed concrete properties that the perceiver ought to judge as beautiful or not. Failure to make the correct judgement was considered as something deficient within the beholder, whether that be a flaw within the person’s virtue or connected to a lack of knowledge that hinders their ability to perceive the beauty of the object. \n\nAesthetic judgement as a concept rose to prominence in the eighteenth century, however its roots can be traced back many years to ancient Greek and medieval philosophers.\n\nAncient Greek philosophers did not possess an explicit concept of aesthetic judgement, however their ideas regarding aesthetics inspired later developments.  \n\nPlato’s metaphysical theory held that there is an incorporeal realm in which the perfect Forms of reality exist. This includes the perfect Form of Beauty, which one can rise up to through a dialectical method. Thus, in Plato’s terms, knowledge is critical to developing a better understanding of beauty and thus, a better capacity for aesthetic judgement.\n\nAristotle purported a more experiential approach to aesthetic judgement, in that beauty was a property of objects being related to their size and proportion. To develop a capacity for aesthetic judgement, one has to observe enough objects of the same kind to uncover the correct form of those things. Both Aristotle and Plato perceived beauty as a property existing outside of human experience, with aesthetic judgement being the capacity to recognise that beauty, developed by the search for beauty in things. \n\nAlthough Medieval philosophers did not possess a particular notion of individual preference or taste, they were particularly preoccupied with a cosmological interpretation of beauty, with relation to specific ontological properties. This is attributed to the fact that philosophers of the medieval age had an object notion of beauty, and also because it was a common belief that morality was linked with beauty.\n\nExpanding upon Plato’s Theory of the Forms, Augustine believed that perfect beauty existed within God. Augustine proposed equality and unity as the two properties that made physical objects beautiful. Aesthetic judgement is thus the ability of an individual to recognise the unity and equality of an object, thus involving an exercise of reason and knowledge, similar to the theories of previous thinkers. Since the ultimate state of beauty exists in God’s mind, an observer can only recognise this through divine illumination. Thus, one’s capacity for aesthetic judgement is improved the closer one is to God.\n\nAquinas also presented properties that make an object beautiful: proportion, wholeness and radiance. Thus, similar to his philosophical predecessors, he constituted the judgement of beauty to be dependent on knowledge and occurring through the function of cognition. Possessing a capacity for aesthetic judgement is therefore determined by one’s ability to recognise these properties in observed objects. Aquinas does however diverge from previous philosophers on certain notions. His definition of that beauty as \"that which, when seen, pleases\" can be interpreted as an implication of the subjectivity of beauty and thus judgements about it. Furthermore, he rejects Plato’s Theory of Forms, stating that beauty is a real quality present within objects. Ultimately however he converges upon Augustine’s view that God is the source of all beauty.\n\nExplicit theories of aesthetic judgement emerged and predominated in the 18 century, being referred to as “the century of taste”.  Philosophers developed a more introspective stance to attempt to understand their personal dispositions to beauty.\n\nAnthony Cooper (1671-1713), the Third Earl of Shaftesbury, purported his philosophical ideas through his Socratic dialogue “The Moralists, a Philosophical Rhapsody”, which stands in almost direct contrast to the theories and assumptions posited by Addison. Shaftesbury claimed that taste was a quality innate within human beings. One’s capacity to observe and make correct judgements of beauty was dependent on one’s moral righteousness. The key property Shaftesbury ascribed to beautiful objects is harmony, the prime source of which is nature, which in turn is formed by God who is constituted as the ultimate source of beauty.\n\nJoseph Addison (1672-1719) posited theories that were in almost direct contrast to those of Shaftesbury. Central to Addison’s theory of aesthetic judgement is the concept that pleasures of taste are essentially “pleasures of the imagination”. Addison’s fundamental divergence from Shaftesbury is that he views taste to be a judgement of visual representation as exercised by the imagination, rather than as an exercise of the intellect and of moral righteousness. Addison constituted two types of pleasures of the imagination: primary pleasures, as in those derived from visual images directly observed by an individual of an object in front of them and secondary pleasures, which arise from images of objects that are absent from sight and therefore exist only in the mind. Addison’s materialist basis predisposes his theory to subjectivism and relativism, leading Addison to declare that there “is not perhaps any real beauty”.\n\nAlexander Gerard (1728-1795) considered taste in a similar fashion to the six external senses, in that experiences of aesthetic judgement are also simple and instantaneous. He also developed his views from the philosophical framework of associationism. Aesthetic judgements are exercises of the faculty of imagination, in which a newly observed object is associated to previous ideas in the mind of the observer. Gerard determines that taste is improved when a person exercises their capacities for judgment and taste to recognise the four core elements of sensibility, refinement, correctness and proportion within objects.\n\nDavid Hume’s theories on aesthetic judgement were purported in his 1757 essay \"Of the Standard of Taste\". Hume ascribed some normative quality to aesthetic judgements whilst providing critiques of the more relativist positions on the matter. Whilst acknowledging that judgements cannot reasonably be determined to be objectively true or false, he championed the notion of “common sense”, which held that some evaluations are better than others. Hume also reinforced the conception of aesthetic judgements as an exercise of the faculty of the imagination, determining beauty to not be a property of objects but existing only in the mind, and the ones that are deemed more beautiful are the ones that affect the higher sentiments, or high cognitive or intellectual capacities of the observer. Hume also sought to establish a universal standard of aesthetic judgement, seeking a basis upon which we can “confirm” one sentiment and “condemn” another. In doing this he refers to classic texts which seemingly have received universal acclaim beyond through different times and cultures. Hume asserts that such universal acclamation identifies a work of real genius, and such works should be examined to provide us with guidelines for the composition of good art. Hume provides characteristics of what he refers to as a true judge in matters of aesthetics:\n\nThe consensus of these critics constitutes what Hume called a “joint verdict”, which composes the \"true standard\" for aesthetic judgements. This standard is constituted as universally correct, and failure to recognise pleasure in the object is considered a defect within the observer.\n\nHume does concede however that certain subjectivities affecting aesthetic judgements cannot be eliminated. He indicates two circumstances that will create irrevocable prejudices. First he refers to natural, generational and cultural dispositions which are fundamental and relative to individuals. The second is determined by the critics’ degree of moral righteousness. Ascribing a normative characteristic to morality, Hume declares that aesthetic merit is influenced by “the natural boundaries of vice and virtue”, and if the artist does not conform to these moral regulations then they and their art will inevitably divert from Hume’s true standard.\n\nCentral to the concept of aesthetic judgement is Kant’s notion of the “judgement of taste”, introduced in his seminal 1790 book the \"Critique of Judgement.\" In the text, Kant determined two essential conditions for a judgement to be classified as a judgement of taste – subjectivity and universality. \n\nSubjectivity refers to the fact that a judgement of taste is based on a feeling of pleasure or displeasure. The second necessary condition of a judgement of taste is that it claims “universal validity”, which Kant describes as follows:\nKant emphasises the fact that requiring the agreement of others is an inextricable characteristic of aesthetic judgements. We think that others “ought” to share our judgement, and we blame them if they don’t, as if there was a deficiency within them to recognise beauty and make judgements upon it. Aesthetic judgements, unique from other types of judgements that Kant lists, therefore make a claim to universal validity. Kant also states that pleasure in beauty is disinterested in that it is desire-free. Whilst agreeing that pleasure in beauty can generate desire, he states that it is an essential characteristic of aesthetic judgements that they are found to be pleasurable because they are judged to be beautiful, rather than being judged as beautiful because they are found to be pleasurable.\n\nKant provides a “deep” account of the nature of pleasure in beauty, which states that it accomplished through the simultaneous exercise of the cognitive faculties of imagination and understanding. This is the premise upon which Kant asserts his normative claim on aesthetic judgements. Because these judgements are a function of cognitive faculties, which Kant assumed can be shared by humans, it must be possible for them to be shared.\nKant also purported that pleasure in beauty can be attributed to our recognition that the qualities of an object conform to basic functions of human cognition. We maintain a presupposition that all objects seemed to be formed in a way that enables them to be analysed by human observers. Beauty is the quality of an object assuming a “form of purposiveness”, despite the absence of an identification of a specific purpose. When we respond to an object’s appearance without any comprehension of utility, we respond in an aesthetic manner. The feeling of pleasure is a signal that the object is able to be comprehended through exercising the human faculty of understanding. An aesthetic judgement is therefore a judgement about human cognition rather than a material object.\n\nPhilosophical concerns with aesthetic judgement declined rapidly after the 19 century, with the majority of discourse shifting to the concept of an aesthetic attitude. Despite this, there have been philosophers who have persisted with the concept of aesthetic taste, which has resulted in some notable contributions in contemporary times. \n\nFrank Sibley (1929-1996) defined aesthetic judgements to be evaluations that apply aesthetic concepts to objects through aesthetic terminology. Taste is thus an individual’s capacity to recognise these properties and employ aesthetic concepts and terms appropriately to describe them. Sibley also asserts that aesthetic judgements are objective and that beauty is an objective property present within objects, departing from the 18 century philosophical norm of subjectivist interpretation.\n"}
{"id": "30862345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30862345", "title": "Analytical jurisprudence", "text": "Analytical jurisprudence\n\nAnalytical jurisprudence is a theory of jurisprudence that draws on the resources of modern analytical philosophy to try to understand the nature of law. Since the boundaries of analytical philosophy are somewhat vague, it is difficult to say how far it extends. H. L. A. Hart was probably the most influential writer in the modern school of analytical jurisprudence, though its history goes back at least to Jeremy Bentham.\n\nAnalytical jurisprudence is not to be mistaken for legal formalism (the idea that legal reasoning is or can be modelled as a mechanical, algorithmic process). Indeed, it was the analytical jurists who first pointed out that legal formalism is fundamentally mistaken as a theory of law.\n\nAnalytic, or 'clarificatory' jurisprudence uses a neutral point of view and descriptive language when referring to the aspects of legal systems. This was a philosophical development that rejected natural law's fusing of what law is and what it ought to be. David Hume famously argued in \"A Treatise of Human Nature\" that people invariably slip between describing that the world is a certain way to saying therefore we ought to conclude on a particular course of action. But as a matter of pure logic, one cannot conclude that we ought to do something merely because something is the case. So analysing and clarifying the way the world is, must be treated as a strictly separate question to normative and evaluative ought questions.\n\nThe most important questions of analytic jurisprudence are: \"What are laws?\"; \"What is the law?\"; \"What is the relationship between law and power?\"; and, \"What is the relationship between law and morality?\" Legal positivism is the dominant theory, although there are a growing number of critics, who offer their own interpretations.\n\nSpringer books commissioned essays on analytical jurisprudence for \"A Treatise on Legal Philosophy and General Jurisprudence\". \n\n"}
{"id": "15047743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15047743", "title": "Authors' conference", "text": "Authors' conference\n\nAn authors' conference or writers' conference is a type of conference where writers gather to review their written works and suggest improvements. This process helps an author improve his or her work and learn to be a better writer for future works, both by receiving critiques of their own work and by mentoring the work of the other authors. Writers may also benefit from meeting and hearing from professionals in related fields, such as agents, editors, illustrators, publishers, and providers of other relevant services.\n\nUnlike most other conference styles, an authors' conference is very participatory. Most conferences are divided into presentations, each of which has a clear separation of roles among a one or more presenters and an audience. While authors' conferences may include some such presentations, writers' conferences also include numerous sessions wherein an author does not present his or her work but rather listens while the other participants discuss the work. In this way, the author gains an understanding of what readers learn by reading the work.\n\nAn authors' conference consists of two phases, shepherding and writers' workshops. Shepherding usually (but not always) occurs before the conference meeting, and the meeting itself is organized as a writers' workshop.\n\nOne popular series of authors' conferences is the Pattern Languages of Programming conferences, held to encourage and assist authors of software design patterns and pattern languages.\n\nThe shepherding process occurs before the conference meeting. Authors submit papers for the conference, then each paper is assigned to a shepherd, an experienced author who works with the submitter to improve his or her paper. The process often consists of three iterations in as many weeks where the shepherd makes suggestions for improvement and the submitter incorporates the suggestions. This one-on-one mentoring using the submitter's unfinished work as an example is very effective for teaching the submitter how to be a better writer, although its effectiveness is ultimately determined by the participants' dedication and their working relationship. At the end of the shepherding process, the shepherd recommends whether to accept the submission for review at the conference. An accepted submission should meet minimal quality standards for effective evaluation in the writers' workshop, and should have been improved significantly by the submitter during the shepherding process.\n\nThe writers' workshop process occurs during the conference meeting. The workshop consists of 6–10 sessions, one per submission to be reviewed. The workshop participants are the authors of those submissions and any other reviewers the authors choose to accept. In a session, the authors of the submission listen quietly while the other participants discuss what they liked about the submission and suggest improvements. This gives the authors of the submission insight into what information readers are learning from the work and ideas for improving the work. Reviewers discussing a work are careful to make productive comments, both because the author is listening and because in other sessions that author will become the reviewer and make comments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41348235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41348235", "title": "Bangamata", "text": "Bangamata\n\nBaṅgamātā (), Mother Bengal or simply বাংলা/ Bangla, a personification of Bengal, was created during Bengali renaissance and later adopted by the Bengali nationalists. In Bangladeshi poetry, literature and patriotic song, she has become a symbol of Bangladesh, considered as a personification of the Republic. The Mother Bengal represents not only biological motherness but its attributed characteristics as well – protection, never ending love, consolation, care, the beginning and the end of life.\n\nBankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, an orthodox Brahmin writer, poet and journalist, composed an Ode to Mother Bengal called Vande Mataram around 1876 as an alternative to the British royal anthem.\n\nIn Amar Sonar Bangla, the national anthem of Bangladesh, Rabindranath Tagore used the word \"Maa\" (Mother) numerous times to refer to the motherland, \"i.e.\" Bengal. Despite her popularity in patriotic songs and poems, her physical representations and images are rare.\n\nDuring the period of বঙ্গভঙ্গ Bônggôbhônggô (Partition of Bengal (1905)) - when the ruling British empire had the province of Bengal (of undivided India) split into two parts, many Bengali intellectuals joined cultural and political movement against the partition. The partition took place in October 1905 and separated the largely Muslim eastern areas from the largely Hindu western areas. The Hindus of West Bengal who dominated Bengal's business and rural life complained that the division would make them a minority in a province that would incorporate the Bihar and Orissa Province. It was during this time the Mother Bengal was an immensely popular theme in Bengali patriotic songs and poems and was mentioned in several of them, such as the song ″Dhana Dhanya Pushpa Bhara″ and ″Banga Amar Janani Amar″ (Our Bengal Our Mother) by Dwijendralal Ray. These songs were meant to rekindle the unified spirit of Bengal, to raise public consciousness against the communal political divide.\n\nMany of Bengali patriotic songs were regularly played on the Swadhin Bangla Betar Kendra, the clandestine radio station broadcast to revolutionaries and occupied population during the Bangladesh Liberation War. some of these patriotic songs, such as “Jonmo Amar Dhonno Holo Maa-go” and “Bangla Moder Bangla Maa Amra Tomar Koti Shontan” have significant representations of “Mother Bengal”. She was an icon of freedom and democracy against all forms of dictatorship. These patriotic songs are still immensely popular in Bangladesh and West Bengal .\n\nIn his patriotic song, known as \"Aaji Bangladesher Hridoy\" (1905), the poet Rabindranath Tagore wrote the following depiction of Bangladesh, or the then undivided Bengal (not to be confused with the modern-day country of 'Bangladesh', with 'Bangla' meaning Bengal and 'Desh' meaning Land):\n\nThis is most probably only picturesque details of Mother Bengal.\n\n"}
{"id": "5289291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5289291", "title": "Blind men and an elephant", "text": "Blind men and an elephant\n\nThe parable of the blind men and an elephant originated in the ancient Indian subcontinent, from where it has been widely diffused. However the meaning of the popular proverb differs in other countries. It is a story of a group of blind men, who have never come across an elephant before and who learn and conceptualize what the elephant is like by touching it. Each blind man feels a different part of the elephant's body, but only one part, such as the side or the tusk. They then describe the elephant based on their limited experience and their descriptions of the elephant are different from each other. In some versions, they come to suspect that the other person is dishonest and they come to blows. The moral of the parable is that humans have a tendency to claim absolute truth based on their limited, subjective experience as they ignore other people's limited, subjective experiences which may be equally true.\n\nThe first version of the story itself is traceable to the Buddhist text \"Udana 6.4\", dated to about mid 1st millennium BCE. According to John Ireland, the parable is likely older than the Buddhist text.\n\nAn alternate version of the parable describes normal men, experiencing a large statue on a dark night, or feeling a large object while being blindfolded. They then describe what it is they have experienced. In its various versions, it is a parable that has crossed between many religious traditions and is part of Buddhist, Hindu and Jain texts of 1st millennium CE or before. The story also appears in 2nd millennium Sufi and Bahá’í lore. The tale later became well known in Europe, with 19th century American poet John Godfrey Saxe creating as a poem, with a final verse that explains that the elephant is a metaphor for God, and the various blind men represent religions that disagree on something no one has fully experienced. The story has been published in many books for adults and children, and interpreted in a variety of ways.\n\nThe earliest versions of the parable of blind men and elephant is found in Buddhist, Hindu and Jain texts, as they discuss the limits of perception and the importance of complete context. The parable has several Indian variations, but broadly goes as follows:\n\nIn some versions, the blind men then discover their disagreements, suspect the others to be not telling the truth and come to blows. The stories also differ primarily in how the elephant's body parts are described, how violent the conflict becomes and how (or if) the conflict among the men and their perspectives is resolved. In some versions, they stop talking, start listening and collaborate to \"see\" the full elephant. In another, a sighted man enters the parable and describes the entire elephant from various perspectives, the blind men then learn that they were all partially correct and partially wrong. While one's subjective experience is true, it may not be the totality of truth.\n\nThe parable has been used to illustrate a range of truths and fallacies; broadly, the parable implies that one's subjective experience can be true, but that such experience is inherently limited by its failure to account for other truths or a totality of truth. At various times the parable has provided insight into the relativism, opaqueness or inexpressible nature of truth, the behavior of experts in fields of contradicting theories, the need for deeper understanding, and respect for different perspectives on the same object of observation.\n\nThe \"Rigveda\", dated to have been composed between 1500 and 1200 BCE, states \"Reality is one, though wise men speak of it variously.\" According to Paul J. Griffiths, this premise is the foundation of universalist perspective behind the parable of the blind men and an elephant. The hymn asserts that the same reality is subject to interpretations and described in various ways by the wise. In the oldest version, four blind men walk into a forest where they meet an elephant. In this version, they do not fight with each other, but conclude that they each must have perceived a different beast although they experienced the same elephant. The expanded version of the parable occurs in various ancient and Hindu texts. Many scholars refer to it as a Hindu parable.\n\nThe parable or references appear in \"bhasya\" (commentaries, secondary literature) in the Hindu traditions. For example, Adi Shankara mentions it in his \"bhasya\" on verse 5.18.1 of the \"Chandogya Upanishad\" as follows:\n\nThe medieval era Jain texts explain the concepts of \"anekāntavāda\" (or \"many-sidedness\") and \"syādvāda\" (\"conditioned viewpoints\") with the parable of the blind men and an elephant (\"Andhgajanyāyah\"), which addresses the manifold nature of truth. For example, this parable are found in \"Tattvarthaslokavatika\" of Vidyanandi (9th century) and \"Syādvādamanjari\" of Ācārya Mallisena (13th century). Mallisena uses the parable to argue that immature people deny various aspects of truth; deluded by the aspects they \"do\" understand, they deny the aspects they \"don't\" understand. \"Due to extreme delusion produced on account of a partial viewpoint, the immature deny one aspect and try to establish another. This is the maxim of the blind (men) and the elephant.\" Mallisena also cites the parable when noting the importance of considering all viewpoints in obtaining a full picture of reality. \"It is impossible to properly understand an entity consisting of infinite properties without the method of modal description consisting of all viewpoints, since it will otherwise lead to a situation of seizing mere sprouts (i.e., a superficial, inadequate cognition), on the maxim of the blind (men) and the elephant.\"\n\nThe Buddha twice uses the simile of blind men led astray. The earliest known version occurs in the text \"Udana 6.4\".\n\nIn the \"Canki Sutta\" he describes a row of blind men holding on to each other as an example of those who follow an old text that has passed down from generation to generation. In the Udana (68–69) he uses the elephant parable to describe sectarian quarrels. A king has the blind men of the capital brought to the palace, where an elephant is brought in and they are asked to describe it.\n\nWhen the blind men had each felt a part of the elephant, the king went to each of them and said to each: 'Well, blind man, have you seen the elephant? Tell me, what sort of thing is an elephant?'\n\nThe men assert the elephant is either like a pot (the blind man who felt the elephant's head), a winnowing basket (ear), a plowshare (tusk), a plow (trunk), a granary (body), a pillar (foot), a mortar (back), a pestle (tail) or a brush (tip of the tail).\n\nThe men cannot agree with one another and come to blows over the question of what it is like and their dispute delights the king. The Buddha ends the story by comparing the blind men to preachers and scholars who are blind and ignorant and hold to their own views: \"Just so are these preachers and scholars holding various views blind and unseeing... In their ignorance they are by nature quarrelsome, wrangling, and disputatious, each maintaining reality is thus and thus.\" The Buddha then speaks the following verse:\n\nThe Persian Sufi poet Sanai of Ghazni (currently, Afghanistan) presented this teaching story in his \"The Walled Garden of Truth\".\n\nRumi, the 13th Century Persian poet and teacher of Sufism, included it in his Masnavi. In his retelling, \"The Elephant in the Dark\", some Hindus bring an elephant to be exhibited in a dark room. A number of men touch and feel the elephant in the dark and, depending upon where they touch it, they believe the elephant to be like a water spout (trunk), a fan (ear), a pillar (leg) and a throne (back). Rumi uses this story as an example of the limits of individual perception:\nThe sensual eye is just like the palm of the hand. The palm has not the means of covering the whole of the beast.\n\nRumi does not present a resolution to the conflict in his version, but states:\nThe eye of the Sea is one thing and the foam another. Let the foam go, and gaze with the eye of the Sea. Day and night foam-flecks are flung from the sea: oh amazing! You behold the foam but not the Sea. We are like boats dashing together; our eyes are darkened, yet we are in clear water.\n\nRumi ends his poem by stating \"If each had a candle and they went in together the differences would disappear.\" \n\nOne of the most famous versions of the 19th century was the poem \"\" by John Godfrey Saxe (1816–1887).\n\nThe poem begins:\nEach in his own opinion concludes that the elephant is like a wall, snake, spear, tree, fan or rope, depending upon where they had touched. Their heated debate comes short of physical violence, but the conflict is never resolved.\nNatalie Merchant sang this poem in full on her Leave Your Sleep album (Disc 1, track 13).\n\nIn Japan, the proverb is used as a simile of circumstance that ordinary men often fail to understand a great man or his great work.\n\nThe story is seen as a metaphor in many disciplines, being pressed into service as an analogy in fields well beyond the traditional. In physics, it has been seen as an analogy for the wave–particle duality. In biology, the way the blind men hold onto different parts of the elephant has been seen as a good analogy for the Polyclonal B cell response.The fable is one of a number of tales that cast light on the response of hearers or readers to the story itself. Idries Shah has commented on this element of self-reference in the many interpretations of the story, and its function as a teaching story:\n...people address themselves to this story in one or more [...] interpretations. They then accept or reject them. Now they can feel happy; they have arrived at an opinion about the matter. According to their conditioning they produce the answer. Now look at their answers. Some will say that this is a fascinating and touching allegory of the presence of God. Others will say that it is showing people how stupid mankind can be. Some say it is anti-scholastic. Others that it is just a tale copied by Rumi from Sanai – and so on.\n\nShah adapted the tale in his book \"The Dermis Probe\". This version begins with a conference of scientists, from different fields of expertise, presenting their conflicting conclusions on the material upon which a camera is focused. As the camera slowly zooms out it gradually becomes clear that the material under examination is the hide of an African elephant. The words 'The Parts Are Greater Than The Whole' then appear on the screen. This retelling formed the script for a short four-minute film by the animator Richard Williams. The film was chosen as an Outstanding Film of the Year and was exhibited at the London and New York film festivals.\n\nThe story enjoys a continuing appeal, as shown by the number of illustrated children's books of the fable; there is one for instance by Paul Galdone and another, \"Seven Blind Mice\", by Ed Young (1992).\n\nIn the title cartoon of one of his books, cartoonist Sam Gross postulated that one of the blind men, encountering a pile of the elephant feces, concluded that \"An elephant is soft and mushy.\"\n\nAn elephant joke inverts the story in the following way:\nSix blind elephants were discussing what men were like. After arguing they decided to find one and determine what it was like by direct experience. The first blind elephant felt the man and declared, 'Men are flat.' After the other blind elephants felt the man, they agreed.\nMoral:\n\"Touching the Elephant\" was a 1997 BBC Radio 4 documentary in which four people of varying ages, all blind from birth, were brought to London Zoo to touch an elephant and describe their response.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28336941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28336941", "title": "Blondell Wayne Tatum", "text": "Blondell Wayne Tatum\n\nBlondell Wayne Tatum, a.k.a. Chemo, is a fictional character who has appeared in two novels by Carl Hiaasen, \"Skin Tight\" (1989) and \"Star Island\" (2010).\n\nTatum was born in North Dakota. His parents belonged to a religious sect that believed in polygamy, vegetarianism, and refusing to pay income taxes. Tatum was orphaned at age six when his parents were killed in a shootout with FBI agents in a post office outside Grand Forks. He went to live with his aunt and uncle, who were fugitives from felony mail fraud charges in New Jersey, masquerading as Amish wheat farmers in rural Pennsylvania. Blondell first turned to crime when he was sixteen (holding up a bank with a pitchfork), eventually becoming a corrupt, though popular, city official in a small Pennsylvania town.\n\nHis life took a drastic turn due to a freak accident during an electrolysis procedure to remove two ingrown hair follicles from the tip of his nose. While Tatum was unconscious, the doctor suffered a stroke and mistakenly applied the needle to his entire face. After Tatum woke up, he killed the doctor and fled the city, trying to find a cure for his facial condition. One wrongly-prescribed medication produced a lasting effect which \"looked as if someone had glued Rice Krispies to every square centimeter of his face\" and led to his nickname, \"Chemo\" (since many people wrongly assumed he was undergoing chemotherapy). \n\nIn Bal Harbour, Florida, he approaches Dr. Rudy Graveline, a plastic surgeon who offers him a discount on dermabrasion treatments in exchange for Chemo killing Mick Stranahan, a former State Investigator who is causing Rudy worry.\n\nDuring his first, failed attempt, Chemo drowns Stranahan's vengeful ex-wife, Chloe, with an anchor, after she points out the house she thinks is his. During his second, Chemo dives off the balcony of Stranahan's stilt house in Biscayne Bay, and his hand is bitten off by a strike from Stranahan's pet Great Barracuda. Instead of a conventional prosthesis, he chooses to attach a portable weed whacker.\n\nThe whole affair spirals out of control, though Chemo is able to steal an amount of cash from Graveline that allows him to undergo a complete facial dermabrasion from a competent plastic surgeon. Although this treatment succeeds in removing the \"Rice Krispies\" effect, his surgeon advises him that he will still have to regrow the outer layer of his facial skin.\n\nEventually, Chemo is caught in a confrontation between Graveline and Stranahan out on the stilt house, where he kills Graveline out of fear (or mortification) that Graveline is about to confess the terms of the \"deal\" that he and Graveline had for killing Stranahan. Chemo is later arrested, and sentenced to four concurrent seventeen-year life sentences at Raiford.\n\nIn 2010, he is back in Florida, having been paroled after 17 years, and enjoyed a lucrative spell of employment as a mortgage loan broker. After the subprime mortgage bubble bursts, he is back to doing security, sometimes as a bodyguard for visiting celebrities. He carves out a small specialty for himself as a life coach for those with self-destructive addictions, since he has no awe whatsoever of fame, is immune to seduction, and not at all averse to beating his charges to pulp if they misbehave themselves. After pop star \"Cherry Pye's\" latest drug-and-alcohol escapade, her record promoter recruits Chemo to be her latest bodyguard, over the objections of her family.\n\nAside from his facial condition (which never completely recovers after the electrolysis mishap) and the weed trimmer attached to his arm, Chemo's appearance is also frightening because of his pallid, almost-reptilian complexion, the sparse hair on his scalp, and the fact that he stands 6'9\" tall.\n\n"}
{"id": "7881283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7881283", "title": "Brain-Washing (book)", "text": "Brain-Washing (book)\n\nBrain-Washing: A Synthesis of the Russian Textbook on Psychopolitics, sometimes referred to as The Brainwashing Manual, is a book published in 1955. It purports to be a condensation of the work of Lavrentiy Beria, the Soviet secret police chief. The book states Kenneth Goff as author. Its true authorship is not clear, the three common hypotheses being: Scientology's founder L. Ron Hubbard, Kenneth Goff (alias Oliver Kenneth Goff), or both L. Ron Hubbard and Kenneth Goff based on an acquired US agency report. The third hypothesis is questionable as there is not proof that the two men ever knew each other. Claims that L. Ron Hubbard was the author are also dubious as the only source of this claim is his estranged son, L Ron Hubbard Jr.\n\nIt is also sometimes referred to as The Communist Manual of Psycho-Political Warfare or the Communist Manual of Instructions of Psychopolitical Warfare.\n\nIt says that it is a transcript of a speech on the use of psychiatry as a means of social control, given by Lavrenty Beria in the Soviet Union in 1950. However L. Ron Hubbard Jr., estranged son of Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard, stated: \n\"Dad wrote every word of it. Barbara Bryan and my wife typed the manuscript off his dictation.\" \nAlthough Hubbard Jr.'s broad criticisms against his father were later discredited Hubbard's former editor, John Sanborn, confirmed Hubbard Jr.'s testimony.\n\nThe Hubbard Association of Scientologists International published the booklet in an emergency basis in 1955. Hubbard tried to present the Federal Bureau of Investigation with a copy, but the Bureau expressed skepticism about the document's authenticity. CIA operative Edward Hunter called the book a hoax, while the evaluator at the Operations Coordinating Board of President Dwight D. Eisenhower’s National Security Council thought the writer of the booklet seemed to have a superior expertise on the subject. The book supposedly has Beria using obvious Hubbardisms such as \"thinkingness\" or \"pain-drug-hypnosis\", and making an unlikely mention of Dianetics side by side with Christian Science and Catholicism as major worldwide \"healing groups\". Modern versions of the book, make no mention of these so-called \"Hubbardisms\" thus refuting whether they in fact did appear in the original texts and thus the so-called authorship of Hubbard in the first place.\n\nIn 1963, the Australian Board of Inquiry regarded the book as written by Hubbard, something that neither Hubbard nor the Church of Scientology's HASI Hubbard Association of Scientologists International refuted at the time.\n\nAccording to Massimo Introvigne, critics of Scientology attribute the Brainwashing manual to Hubbard because of the claim that it was later used to practice actual brainwashing in the church. However, “Hubbard’s works denounced brainwashing as something that should not be practiced, both on moral grounds and because brainwashing represented the triumph of everything Scientology found reprehensible and harmful in modern psychiatry.” Critics say that the proof is that Hubbard said in a 1956 Dianetics and Scientology bulletin: “We can brainwash faster than the Russians.” Introvigne purports that it was not an endorsement of brainwashing. The same bulletin also told Scientology auditors to “avoid these techniques typical of psychiatry.”\n\nThere are two different meanings of brainwashing confused by critics of Scientology, says Introvigne. The first is drug-related, using psychotropic medication, violence and hypnosis, the second is “religious indoctrination,” which is generally used to attack not just the Church of Scientology but also other religions. The first is what Hubbard refers to as “pain-drug hypnosis,” which he declared ineffective and something to be “opposed and denounced” as a psychiatric practice.\n\nHubbard expressed on December 1955 that there was no political significance attached to the booklet. “We couldn’t be less interested, but brainwashing happens to be a facet of the human mind and it has been necessary to make available to our own people any and all texts which exist on the subject.” He emphasized his interest was purely professional.\n\nThe final results of the Anderson Report in 1965 declared:\n\n\"The Board is not concerned to find that the scientology techniques are brainwashing techniques as practised, so it is understood, in some communist-controlled countries. Scientology techniques are, nevertheless, a kind of brainwashing... The astonishing feature of Scientology is that its techniques and propagation resemble very closely those set out in a book entitled \"Brain-washing\", advertised and sold by the HASI.\" \n\nMorris Kominsky in his \"The Hoaxers: Plain Liars, Fancy Liars and Damned Liars\" (1970) attributes the authorship to a Rev. Kenneth Goff (alias Oliver Kenneth Goff) of Englewood, Colorado, an assistant of Gerald L. K. Smith. The entirety of chapter twelve is devoted to analysis of the text and the author's correspondence with others to determine the authenticity of the text or points within it, and other publications which make reference to it. All current copies of the book including Kominsky's copy have a preface by Goff, but he does not give the publication date. The introduction begins:\n\n\"From May 2, 1936, to October 10, 1939, I was a dues-paying member of the Communist Party, operating under my own name, Kenneth Goff, and also the alias John Keats. In 1939, I voluntarily appeared before the Un-American Activities Committee in Washington, D.C., which was chairmanned at that time by Martin Dies, and my testimony can be found in Volume 9 of that year's Congressional Report.\n\nDuring the period that I was a member of the Communist Party, I attended their school which was located at 113 E. Wells St., Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and operated under the name Eugene Debs Labor School. Here we were trained in all phases of warfare, both psychological and physical, for the destruction of the Capitalistic society and Christian civilization. In one portion of our studies we went thoroughly into the matter of psychopolitics. This was the art of capturing the minds of a nation through brainwashing and fake mental health -- the subjecting of whole nations of people to the rule of the Kremlin by capturing their minds. We were taught that the degradation of the populace is less inhuman than their destruction by bombs, for to an animal lives only once, any life is sweeter than death. The end of a war is the control of a conquered people. If a people can be conquered in the absence of war, the end of war will have been achieved without the destructions of war.\"\n\nKominsky owned another copy published by the \"Ultra-Rightist women of the Burbank, California area who call themselves the American Public Relations Forum, Inc.\" That copy included an introduction by Charles Stickley and with additional items by Usher L. Burdick, claiming a publication date of 1955. Goff asserted Stickley plagiarized him, and that he had seen yet another publication which had done so. Nonetheless, the Goff version also makes no mention of so-called \"Hubbardisms\", which further disproves the alleged authorship by L. Ron Hubbard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40371135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40371135", "title": "Brian's a Bad Father", "text": "Brian's a Bad Father\n\n\"Brian's a Bad Father\" is the eleventh episode of the twelfth season of the animated comedy series \"Family Guy\" and the 221st episode overall. It aired on Fox in the United States and Canada on January 26, 2014, and is directed by Jerry Langford and written by Chris Sheridan.\n\nIn the episode, Brian's human son, Dylan, returns, now a teen TV star. Rather than being a good father to his estranged son, Brian uses his son's television connections to further his own writing career. Meanwhile, after Peter shoots Quagmire on a hunting trip, the two friends clash and Joe must choose a side.\n\nBrian's overlooked and neglected teenage son Dylan returns to Quahog. While Dylan tries to reconnect with his father, Brian tries to distance himself and ignore him. However, when he learns that Dylan is a now a cast member in a new Disney Channel television series, he — under the ruse of bonding — uses Dylan's connections to secure a job on the series' writing staff to further his career prospects. However, rather than work under age-appropriate guidelines, Brian tries to adapt the writing to include more mature content; because the material does not fit the network, Brian is fired by a producer. Furthermore, a disillusioned Dylan realizes that Brian is not interested in bonding but is merely using him for his own selfish ambitions, and tells him that he never wants to see him again. When Stewie sees Brian getting drunk out of depression, Brian realizes how selfish he has been and how he never realized that he had the chance to have Dylan back into his life again, but he pushed it aside. Stewie decides to help him apologize to Dylan. On the first try Brian gets beaten up after trying to sneak past security. However, right when they are about to leave, Stewie sees a casting line and successfully tries out for Dylan's show under one of his aliases. While recording, Stewie breaks character and explains to Dylan that Brian wants to apologize to him and become a true father to him. Dylan meets up at the local park with Brian and the two forgive each other.\n\nMeanwhile, Peter, Quagmire and Joe go on a hunting trip. During a lunch break, Peter shoots Quagmire in his arm. When the three friends meet back at the bar, Quagmire tells Peter he is fed up with his shortsighted and reckless behavior, and ends their friendship. This causes a rift between the two and leads towards a contest for Joe's affection. In the end, Joe decides that Quagmire has helped him more through hard times and gets along better with the family and chooses Quagmire. Peter tries to bond with Kevin only to leave stating that Kevin is \"masturbating with a knife\". With no more friends and even his own shadow abandoning him for Quagmire, Peter decides to commit suicide, which Lois talks him out of and persuades him to try and reconcile with Quagmire. Later on, Peter offers Quagmire the opportunity to shoot him to break even, thinking Quagmire would decline and consider the \"thought\" as being what counts. However, when Quagmire actually agrees, the two wrestle for the gun until Joe shoots Peter in an attempt to break even and stop the dispute. Peter (angry he was shot by Joe) and Quagmire (upset he was not the one who shot Peter) are dissatisfied. While Peter argues how everyone will settle their differences, Quagmire shoots Peter in the head making the score even. While Brian and Dylan are reconciling, Lois pushes a brain-damaged Peter in a wheelchair where Peter is explaining he is happy that he, Quagmire and Joe are friends again.\n\nEric Thurm of \"The A.V. Club\" gave the episode a C–, saying \"When so much of the episode is based on moving Brian from one end of the parenting spectrum to the other, that story has to be compelling, especially without that many jokes. But because it’s hard to buy Brian at the beginning, it’s difficult to watch this episode or take it that seriously (or as seriously as you’d ever take an episode of \"Family Guy\").\"\n\nThe episode received a 2.0 rating in the 18- to 49-year-old demographic and was watched by a total of 4.11 million people. This made it the most watched show on Animation Domination that night, beating \"American Dad!\", \"Bob's Burgers\" and \"The Simpsons\". Including DVR viewing, the episode was watched by 5.83 million viewers, and received an 18-49 rating of 3.0.\n\n"}
{"id": "8355983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8355983", "title": "Carthaginian coins of Corvo", "text": "Carthaginian coins of Corvo\n\nThe Cyrenaic and Carthaginian coins of Corvo are a hoard of coins dating to approximately 200 BCE that were supposedly left in the Azores by Carthaginians and discovered in 1749 on the island of Corvo, the smallest and most remote island of the Azores.\n\nThe only source of information about the find is a report published in 1778 in \"Det Götheborgska Wetenskaps och Witterhets Samhallets Handlinger\", now known as the Publications of the Royal Society of Sciences and Letters in Gothenburg, by Johan Frans Podolyn, a Portuguese-born Swede. According to Podolyn, in 1761 he met in Madrid the historian and numismatist Enrique Flórez who gave him 9 coins from Carthage (2 gold and 5 bronze) and 2 from Cyrene (bronze), which Flores said were from a hoard discovered in 1749 in a black pot or vase after being washed out of the foundations of a building by a storm.\n\nThe coins depicted in Podolyn's report appeared genuine when compared with designs on coins in the possession of the Prince Royal of Denmark, and the influential German historian Alexander von Humboldt fully embraced the account as proof of Carthaginian voyages to the New World. In the 19th century this was repeated as true in Chateaubriand's \"Autobiography\", in Daniel Wilson's \"The Lost Atlantis\", and in encyclopedias including the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\". In 1936 A. W. Brøgger used it as an example in his speech opening the second International Congress of Archaeologists, in which he argued that the Bronze Age was an era of long-distance exploration.\n\nNot all scholars since have accepted Podolyn's statement about the location of the find: the Azores were apparently unknown to ancient geographers and archeological surveys have not uncovered any evidence of European visitations prior to the modern age of exploration. Some have suggested that the coins were a hoax or placed there in a later period, \"by Arabs, Normans, Spaniards, or early Portuguese settlers.\" Patricia and Pierre Bikai suggest that the coins were actually from a town in Portugal named Corvo, where it is plausible that tin ore attracted Carthaginian settlement. They add that if the Carthaginians did cross the Atlantic the lack of a native population meant that there would not necessarily be any evidence, and \"scholars who reject even the possibility of Atlantic voyages in antiquity seem\" to be accepting a myth promulgated by the Phoenicians that the Atlantic was inherently impassable with the seafaring technology of the period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33576858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33576858", "title": "Chicago Police Department in popular culture", "text": "Chicago Police Department in popular culture\n\nThe Chicago Police Department, also known as the CPD, is the principal law enforcement agency of Chicago, Illinois, in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "1796438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1796438", "title": "China Today", "text": "China Today\n\nChina Today (), formerly titled China Reconstructs (), is a monthly magazine founded in 1952 by Soong Ching-ling in association with Israel Epstein. It is published in Chinese language, English, Spanish, French, Arabic, German and Turkish, and is intended to promote a knowledge of China's culture, geography, economy and social affairs as well as positive view of the People's Republic of China and its government to people outside of China. \n\nForeign advisor and naturalized Chinese citizen Israel Epstein was editor-in-chief of \"China Today\" from 1951, later he returned to China at the request of Soong Ching-ling. The magazine was renamed \"China Today\" in 1990. \"China Today\" is usually published the first week of the month. In the pages of the magazine, the editors usually showcase what they characterize as the growing modernization and development which has happened in China since the reform and opening up policies of Deng Xiaoping began in December 1978.\n\nAcclaimed novelist, playwright and translator Gao Xingjian, who received the Nobel Literature Prize in 2000, worked in the magazine as the chief of its French edition from 1975 to 1977. Renowned actor, translator and politician Ying Ruocheng briefly worked for the English edition of the magazine in the 1970s. He went on to serve as China's vice minister of culture in the 1980s and played a supporting role in the 1987 Oscar-winning film \"The Last Emperor\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35022690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35022690", "title": "Christian Latin literature", "text": "Christian Latin literature\n\nChristian Latin literature has a long history with its foundations being laid during the 4th and 5th centuries. They included the church fathers Augustine of Hippo, Jerome, and Ambrose, and the first great Christian poet, Prudentius.\n\nThe earliest language of the Christian Church was koine Greek, which was the language of the Eastern Roman empire in the 1st century AD. However, as Christianity spread through other parts of the Roman empire where Latin was used, a growing body of Latin literature was produced. Until the end of the 3rd century, the main genre was apologetics (justifications of Christianity), by writers such as Minucius Felix, Tertullian, Arnobius, and Lactantius. St Jerome translated the Bible into Latin in the 4th century, producing an edition known as the Vulgate. This led to the increased use of Latin by the Church Fathers of the 4th century, including Ambrose, and St Augustine of Hippo. Much of what they wrote was concerned with the theological controversies of the time, such as Arianism.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, Latin was still the main language for literature in Western Europe. Plays written in Latin were often part of medieval Easter celebrations, and there were other forms of drama in Latin. Latin was also used for religious lyric poetry and epic verse such as Walafrid Strabo's 9th-century \"De visionibus Wettini\" (a predecessor of Dante's vernacular \"Divine Comedy\"), while Jesuits such as Jakob Masen (author of \"Sarcotis\", a probable influence on Milton's \"Paradise Lost\") also produced Latin epic verse as late as the 17th century.\n\nJesuit poet Diego José Abad wrote the didactic, humanist religious poem \"De Deo heroica carmina\" (1769-1780), which was begun in Mexico and finished in Italy. It is written in Latin hexameter, in a strong style. It is divided into two parts, a Summa theologica and a life of Christ.\n\n"}
{"id": "1849152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849152", "title": "Creative work", "text": "Creative work\n\nA creative work is a manifestation of creative effort including fine artwork (sculpture, paintings, drawing, sketching, performance art), dance, writing (literature), filmmaking, and musical composition.\n\nCreative works require a creative mindset and are not typically rendered in an arbitrary fashion although some works demonstrate [have in common] a degree of arbitrariness, such that it is improbable that two people would independently create the same work. At its base, creative work involves two main steps—having an idea, and then turning that idea into a substantive form or process. The creative process can involve one or more individuals. Based upon technological advances as well as artificial intelligence there is the possibility that creative works can be created without human intervention - thereby removing the step of \"having an idea\". Typically the creative process has some aesthetic value which is identified as a creative expression which itself generally invokes an external stimuli which a person views as creative.\nThe term is frequently used in the context of copyright.\n\nFor the purpose of section 221(2)(c) of the Income Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act 2005, the expression \"creative works\" means: \nA superwork is a creative work that contains multiple creative works all derived from the same originating work.\nFor instance, the superwork from Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tale \"The Little Mermaid\" could comprise the original text, the Little Mermaid statue, \"The Little Mermaid\" (1989 film), commentaries, etc.\n\nIn the context of Semantic Web the superwork was standardized as \"CreativeWork container\", so it is a \"CreativeWork\" with many hasPart relations with other \"CreativeWork\".\nExamples, as container/part list: CreativeWorkSeries/episode, WebSite/WebPage, PublicationIssue/Article.\n"}
{"id": "4147502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4147502", "title": "Dark Canyon Wilderness", "text": "Dark Canyon Wilderness\n\nDark Canyon Wilderness is a designated Wilderness Area in the heart of southeast Utah's canyon country, part of the Bears Ears National Monument. The wilderness is named for its high steep walls that narrow in the lower section so that they block the light in the morning and late afternoon. The roughly horseshoe-shaped wilderness is made up of the upper part of long Dark Canyon and two major tributaries, Woodenshoe Canyon and Peavine Canyon in the Manti-La Sal National Forest. These canyons all descend from pine-covered Elk Ridge northeast of Natural Bridges National Monument. Dark Canyon continues west within a U.S. Bureau of Land Management primitive area that is recommended for wilderness designation. The last four miles of the main canyon drop steeply through Glen Canyon National Recreation Area into Lake Powell.\n\nOn December 28, 2016 President Barack Obama proclaimed the 1.35 million acre Bears Ears National Monument, that includes both the Dark Canyon Wilderness and the adjacent Dark Canyon Primitive Area.\n\nLife zones range from ponderosa pine and aspen-covered high country to desert vegetation in the bottom of Dark Canyon. High terraced castle-like sandstone walls tower above the canyon floors. Wildlife species include mule deer, some mountain lions, black bear and bighorn sheep. This diverse canyon country contains arches, springs, seeps and hanging gardens.\n\nWater sources in Dark Canyon are often widely separated, and some have dried up entirely in recent drought years. Thunderstorms can result in powerful flash floods that scour the canyon streambeds.\n\nWilderness visitors may see evidence of the Ancestral Puebloan culture.\n\nAll the trails dropping into the canyons are moderate but they can be difficult, if not impossible, to find and follow until you reach the bottoms of the canyons. Peavine Canyon contains a cherry-stem jeep trail. The Forest Service once recommended closing the area to vehicles but this corridor was kept open as a compromise in the Utah Wilderness Act of 1984.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8072", "title": "Disease", "text": "Disease\n\nA disease is a particular abnormal condition that negatively affects the structure or function of part or all of an organism, and that is not due to any external injury. Diseases are often construed as medical conditions that are associated with specific symptoms and signs. A disease may be caused by external factors such as pathogens or by internal dysfunctions. For example, internal dysfunctions of the immune system can produce a variety of different diseases, including various forms of immunodeficiency, hypersensitivity, allergies and autoimmune disorders.\n\nIn humans, \"disease\" is often used more broadly to refer to any condition that causes pain, dysfunction, distress, social problems, or death to the person afflicted, or similar problems for those in contact with the person. In this broader sense, it sometimes includes injuries, disabilities, disorders, syndromes, infections, isolated symptoms, deviant behaviors, and atypical variations of structure and function, while in other contexts and for other purposes these may be considered distinguishable categories. Diseases can affect people not only physically, but also emotionally, as contracting and living with a disease can alter the affected person's perspective on life.\n\nDeath due to disease is called death by natural causes. There are four main types of disease: infectious diseases, deficiency diseases, hereditary diseases (including both genetic diseases and non-genetic hereditary diseases), and physiological diseases. Diseases can also be classified in other ways, such as communicable versus non-communicable diseases. The deadliest diseases in humans are coronary artery disease (blood flow obstruction), followed by cerebrovascular disease and lower respiratory infections.\n\nThe study of disease is called \"pathology\", which includes the study of \"etiology\", or cause.\n\nIn many cases, terms such as \"disease\", \"disorder\", \"morbidity\", \"sickness\" and \"illness\" are used interchangeably. There are situations, however, when specific terms are considered preferable.\n\n\nIn an infectious disease, the incubation period is the time between infection and the appearance of symptoms. The latency period is the time between infection and the ability of the disease to spread to another person, which may precede, follow, or be simultaneous with the appearance of symptoms. Some viruses also exhibit a dormant phase, called viral latency, in which the virus hides in the body in an inactive state. For example, varicella zoster virus causes chickenpox in the acute phase; after recovery from chickenpox, the virus may remain dormant in nerve cells for many years, and later cause herpes zoster (shingles).\n\n\nDiseases may be classified by cause, pathogenesis (mechanism by which the disease is caused), or by symptom(s). Alternatively, diseases may be classified according to the organ system involved, though this is often complicated since many diseases affect more than one organ.\n\nA chief difficulty in nosology is that diseases often cannot be defined and classified clearly, especially when cause or pathogenesis are unknown. Thus diagnostic terms often only reflect a symptom or set of symptoms (syndrome).\n\nClassical classification of human disease derives from observational correlation between pathological analysis and clinical syndromes. Today it is preferred to classify them by their cause if it is known.\n\nThe most known and used classification of diseases is the World Health Organization's ICD. This is periodically updated. Currently the last publication is the ICD-10.\n\nOnly some diseases such as influenza are contagious and commonly believed infectious. The micro-organisms that cause these diseases are known as pathogens and include varieties of bacteria, viruses, protozoa and fungi. Infectious diseases can be transmitted, e.g. by hand-to-mouth contact with infectious material on surfaces, by bites of insects or other carriers of the disease, and from contaminated water or food (often via fecal contamination), etc. Also, there are sexually transmitted diseases. In some cases, microorganisms that are not readily spread from person to person play a role, while other diseases can be prevented or ameliorated with appropriate nutrition or other lifestyle changes.\n\nSome diseases, such as most (but not all) forms of cancer, heart disease, and mental disorders, are non-infectious diseases. Many non-infectious diseases have a partly or completely genetic basis (see genetic disorder) and may thus be transmitted from one generation to another.\n\nSocial determinants of health are the social conditions in which people live that determine their health. Illnesses are generally related to social, economic, political, and environmental circumstances. Social determinants of health have been recognized by several health organizations such as the Public Health Agency of Canada and the World Health Organization to greatly influence collective and personal well-being. The World Health Organization's Social Determinants Council also recognizes Social determinants of health in poverty.\n\nWhen the cause of a disease is poorly understood, societies tend to mythologize the disease or use it as a metaphor or symbol of whatever that culture considers evil. For example, until the bacterial cause of tuberculosis was discovered in 1882, experts variously ascribed the disease to heredity, a sedentary lifestyle, depressed mood, and overindulgence in sex, rich food, or alcohol—all the social ills of the time.\n\nWhen a disease is caused by a pathogen (e.g., when the disease malaria is caused by infection by \"Plasmodium\" parasites.), the term \"disease\" may be misleadingly used even in the scientific literature in place of its causal agent, the pathogen. This language habit can cause confusion in the communication of the cause-effect principle in epidemiology, and as such it should be strongly discouraged.\n\n\nMany diseases and disorders can be prevented through a variety of means. These include sanitation, proper nutrition, adequate exercise, vaccinations and other self-care and public health measures.\n\nMedical therapies or treatments are efforts to cure or improve a disease or other health problem. In the medical field, therapy is synonymous with the word \"treatment\". Among psychologists, the term may refer specifically to psychotherapy or \"talk therapy\". Common treatments include medications, surgery, medical devices, and self-care. Treatments may be provided by an organized health care system, or informally, by the patient or family members.\n\nPreventive healthcare is a way to avoid an injury, sickness, or disease in the first place. A treatment or cure is applied after a medical problem has already started. A treatment attempts to improve or remove a problem, but treatments may not produce permanent cures, especially in chronic diseases. Cures are a subset of treatments that reverse diseases completely or end medical problems permanently. Many diseases that cannot be completely cured are still treatable. Pain management (also called pain medicine) is that branch of medicine employing an interdisciplinary approach to the relief of pain and improvement in the quality of life of those living with pain.\n\nTreatment for medical emergencies must be provided promptly, often through an emergency department or, in less critical situations, through an urgent care facility.\n\nEpidemiology is the study of the factors that cause or encourage diseases. Some diseases are more common in certain geographic areas, among people with certain genetic or socioeconomic characteristics, or at different times of the year.\n\nEpidemiology is considered a cornerstone methodology of public health research, and is highly regarded in evidence-based medicine for identifying risk factors for disease. In the study of communicable and non-communicable diseases, the work of epidemiologists ranges from outbreak investigation to study design, data collection and analysis including the development of statistical models to test hypotheses and the documentation of results for submission to peer-reviewed journals. Epidemiologists also study the interaction of diseases in a population, a condition known as a syndemic. Epidemiologists rely on a number of other scientific disciplines such as biology (to better understand disease processes), biostatistics (the current raw information available), Geographic Information Science (to store data and map disease patterns) and social science disciplines (to better understand proximate and distal risk factors). Epidemiology can help identify causes as well as guide prevention efforts.\n\nIn studying diseases, epidemiology faces the challenge of defining them. Especially for poorly understood diseases, different groups might use significantly different definitions. Without an agreed-on definition, different researchers may report different numbers of cases and characteristics of the disease.\n\nSome morbidity databases are compiled with data supplied by states and territories health authorities, at national levels or larger scale (such as European Hospital Morbidity Database (HMDB)) which may contain hospital discharge data by detailed diagnosis, age and sex. The European HMDB datea was submitted by European countries to the World Health Organization Regional Office for Europe.\n\nDisease burden is the impact of a health problem in an area measured by financial cost, mortality, morbidity, or other indicators.\n\nThere are several measures used to quantify the burden imposed by diseases on people. The years of potential life lost (YPLL) is a simple estimate of the number of years that a person's life was shortened due to a disease. For example, if a person dies at the age of 65 from a disease, and would probably have lived until age 80 without that disease, then that disease has caused a loss of 15 years of potential life. YPLL measurements do not account for how disabled a person is before dying, so the measurement treats a person who dies suddenly and a person who died at the same age after decades of illness as equivalent. In 2004, the World Health Organization calculated that 932 million years of potential life were lost to premature death.\n\nThe quality-adjusted life year (QALY) and disability-adjusted life year (DALY) metrics are similar, but take into account whether the person was healthy after diagnosis. In addition to the number of years lost due to premature death, these measurements add part of the years lost to being sick. Unlike YPLL, these measurements show the burden imposed on people who are very sick, but who live a normal lifespan. A disease that has high morbidity, but low mortality, has a high DALY and a low YPLL. In 2004, the World Health Organization calculated that 1.5 billion disability-adjusted life years were lost to disease and injury. In the developed world, heart disease and stroke cause the most loss of life, but neuropsychiatric conditions like major depressive disorder cause the most years lost to being sick.\n\nHow a society responds to diseases is the subject of medical sociology.\n\nA condition may be considered a disease in some cultures or eras but not in others. For example, obesity can represent wealth and abundance, and is a status symbol in famine-prone areas and some places hard-hit by HIV/AIDS. Epilepsy is considered a sign of spiritual gifts among the Hmong people.\n\nSickness confers the social legitimization of certain benefits, such as illness benefits, work avoidance, and being looked after by others. The person who is sick takes on a social role called the sick role. A person who responds to a dreaded disease, such as cancer, in a culturally acceptable fashion may be publicly and privately honored with higher social status. In return for these benefits, the sick person is obligated to seek treatment and work to become well once more. As a comparison, consider pregnancy, which is not interpreted as a disease or sickness, even if the mother and baby may both benefit from medical care.\n\nMost religions grant exceptions from religious duties to people who are sick. For example, one whose life would be endangered by fasting on Yom Kippur or during Ramadan is exempted from the requirement, or even forbidden from participating. People who are sick are also exempted from social duties. For example, ill health is the only socially acceptable reason for an American to refuse an invitation to the White House.\n\nThe identification of a condition as a disease, rather than as simply a variation of human structure or function, can have significant social or economic implications. The controversial recognitions as diseases of repetitive stress injury (RSI) and post-traumatic stress disorder (also known as \"Soldier's heart\", \"shell shock\", and \"combat fatigue\") has had a number of positive and negative effects on the financial and other responsibilities of governments, corporations and institutions towards individuals, as well as on the individuals themselves. The social implication of viewing aging as a disease could be profound, though this classification is not yet widespread.\n\nLepers were people who were historically shunned because they had an infectious disease, and the term \"leper\" still evokes social stigma. Fear of disease can still be a widespread social phenomenon, though not all diseases evoke extreme social stigma.\n\nSocial standing and economic status affect health. Diseases of poverty are diseases that are associated with poverty and low social status; diseases of affluence are diseases that are associated with high social and economic status. Which diseases are associated with which states varies according to time, place, and technology. Some diseases, such as diabetes mellitus, may be associated with both poverty (poor food choices) and affluence (long lifespans and sedentary lifestyles), through different mechanisms. The term lifestyle diseases describes diseases associated with longevity and that are more common among older people. For example, cancer is far more common in societies in which most members live until they reach the age of 80 than in societies in which most members die before they reach the age of 50.\n\nAn illness narrative is a way of organizing a medical experience into a coherent story that illustrates the sick individual's personal experience.\n\nPeople use metaphors to make sense of their experiences with disease. The metaphors move disease from an objective thing that exists to an affective experience. The most popular metaphors draw on military concepts: Disease is an enemy that must be feared, fought, battled, and routed. The patient or the healthcare provider is a warrior, rather than a passive victim or bystander. The agents of communicable diseases are invaders; non-communicable diseases constitute internal insurrection or civil war. Because the threat is urgent, perhaps a matter of life and death, unthinkably radical, even oppressive, measures are society's and the patient's moral duty as they courageously mobilize to struggle against destruction. The War on Cancer is an example of this metaphorical use of language. This language is empowering to some patients, but leaves others feeling like they are failures.\n\nAnother class of metaphors describes the experience of illness as a journey: The person travels to or from a place of disease, and changes himself, discovers new information, or increases his experience along the way. He may travel \"on the road to recovery\" or make changes to \"get on the right track\" or choose \"pathways\". Some are explicitly immigration-themed: the patient has been exiled from the home territory of health to the land of the ill, changing identity and relationships in the process. This language is more common among British healthcare professionals than the language of physical aggression.\n\nSome metaphors are disease-specific. Slavery is a common metaphor for addictions: The alcoholic is enslaved by drink, and the smoker is captive to nicotine. Some cancer patients treat the loss of their hair from chemotherapy as a metonymy or metaphor for all the losses caused by the disease.\n\nSome diseases are used as metaphors for social ills: \"Cancer\" is a common description for anything that is endemic and destructive in society, such as poverty, injustice, or racism. AIDS was seen as a divine judgment for moral decadence, and only by purging itself from the \"pollution\" of the \"invader\" could society become healthy again. More recently, when AIDS seemed less threatening, this type of emotive language was applied to avian flu and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Authors in the 19th century commonly used tuberculosis as a symbol and a metaphor for transcendence. Victims of the disease were portrayed in literature as having risen above daily life to become ephemeral objects of spiritual or artistic achievement. In the 20th century, after its cause was better understood, the same disease became the emblem of poverty, squalor, and other social problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "47327496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47327496", "title": "Eagle of Saladin", "text": "Eagle of Saladin\n\nThe Eagle of Saladin (), in Egypt known as the 'Egyptian Eagle' ( ), also known as the \"Republican Eagle\" ( ), is a heraldic eagle used as a iconic symbol of Egypt. It is currently also used as part of coat of arms of Egypt, Iraq and Palestine.\n\nThe Eagle was taken as a symbol of Cairo and Egypt when Saladin first ruled over the Egyptians, it was inspired by the Ancient Egyptian vulture drawn allover the walls of Egyptian temples as a symbol of pride and dignity. The association with Saladin is also due to the depiction of an Egyptian vulture on the west wall of the Cairo Citadel which was built during the rule of Saladin, although the current design of the eagle itself is of more recent date specifically after the Egyptian revolution of 1952. \"The eagle in the Citadel of Cairo is of very uncertain date, probably considerably later than the period of Saladin\". The eagle is headless and is assumed to have originally been a double-headed eagle. The Cairo Citatel is not its original location, it has been transferred there from an unknown location at an unknown time prior to 1670.\n\nNote that the word \"nisr\", which may mean either \"eagle\" or \"vulture\", is hugely used in Egyptian nationalism and as a symbol of pride placed right in the middle of the country's flag. Another word for \"eagle\" is \"ʿuqāb\", but it's rarely ever used.\n\nIn Modern history, the eagle with its current yellowish form was first introduced as a symbol of the Republic of Egypt during the 1952 Egyptian revolution. The emblem was then inherited as the U.A.R. coat of arms in 1958, and from this time the \"Egyptian eagle\" or the \"Eagle of Saladin\" was taken to represent wider nationalism and as a symbol of unity. \n\nFollowing the 1963 Ramadan Revolution by the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party – Iraq Region, the Arab eagle was introduced as the new coat of arms of Iraq, directly based on the design used by Gamal Abdel Nasser for the Egyptian revolution.\n\nThe Federation of Arab Republics established by Muammar Gaddafi in 1972 at first adopted a Hawk of Quraish as its emblem, but this was replaced by the Arab eagle in 1984. Conversely, the Gaddafi's Libyan Arab Republic in 1969 also adopted the eagle, but replaced it by the Hawk of Quraish in 1972.\n\nIn the Egyptian revolution of 2011, the eagle was associated with the Mubarak regime. Mehrez (2012) describes a stenciled graffiti depicting the Eagle of Saladin turned upside down as a call for the regime's downfall.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37812247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37812247", "title": "Educational technology in Saudi Arabia", "text": "Educational technology in Saudi Arabia\n\nThis article describes the history of using educational technology in Saudi Arabia. It highlights the history of using educational technology in Kingdom of Saudi Arabia since the mid-1700s, the beginning, the improvements and the current status. It also describes the rapid increase in using technology in schools, institutes and universities, and presents the attitudes of Saudi people towards this global phenomenon.\n\nEducation in Saudi Arabia has gone through diverse stages. Regarding the technology emergence in Education in Saudi Arabia, it is displayed below that technology has emerged just recently.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe number of the internet users grew from around million in 2001 to an estimated 13 million at the end of 9 M 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "10179938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10179938", "title": "English Short Title Catalogue", "text": "English Short Title Catalogue\n\nThe English Short Title Catalogue (ESTC) is a union short-title catalogue of works published between 1473 and 1800, in Britain and its former colonies, notably those in North America, and primarily in English, drawing on the collections of the British Library and other libraries in Britain and around the world. It is co-managed by the British Library and the Center for Bibliographical Studies and Research (CBSR) at the University of California, Riverside. The database is freely searchable.\n\nThe ESTC began life as the Eighteenth-Century Short Title Catalogue, with the same abbreviation, covering only 1701 to 1800. Earlier printed works had been catalogued in A. W. Pollard and G. R. Redgrave's \"Short Title Catalogue\" (1st edn 1926; 2nd edn, 1976–91) for the period 1473 to 1640; and Donald Goddard Wing's similarly titled bibliography (1945–51, with later supplements and addenda) for the period 1641 to 1700. These works were eventually incorporated into the database.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44513135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44513135", "title": "Environmental effects of laundry wastewater", "text": "Environmental effects of laundry wastewater\n\nWastewater comes out of the laundry process with additional energy (heat), lint, soil, dyes, finishing agents, and other chemicals from detergents. Some laundry wastewater goes directly into the environment, due to the flaws of water infrastructure. The majority goes to sewage treatment plants before flowing into the environment. Some chemicals remain in the water after treatment, which may contaminate the water system. They can be toxic to wildlife, or can lead to eutrophication.\n\nData shows that United States has more than 35,000 laundries. On the average, a single laundry can discharge 400 m of wastewater every day. Annually, about 5.11 km laundry wastewater is produced, which can fill 1,460 Superdomes in New Orleans.\n\nThere are several parameters in the evaluation of laundry wastewater: temperature, pH-value, suspended substances, Cl, sediment substances, total nitrogen, total phosphorus, nitrogen ammonia, chemical oxygen demand(COD), biochemical oxygen demand(BOD), anionic surfactants.\n\nSeveral common detergent ingredients are surfactants, builders, bleach-active compounds and auxiliary agents. The surfactants can be classified into anionic, cationic and nonionic surfactants. The most widely used surfactant linear alkylbenzene sulfonate (LAS) is an anionic surfactant. In builders, sodium triphosphate, zeolite A, sodium nitrilotriacetate (NTA) are the most important substances. Bleach-active compounds are usually sodium perborate and sodium percarbonate. Enzymes and fluorescent whitening agents are added into detergents as auxiliary agents.\n\nSurfactants own both hydrophilic and lipophilic properties in one molecule, so they are called surface active agents, and are widely used in various washing process. With the lipophilic tails, surfactants are biologically active. Anionic surfactants have the ability of binding to bioactive macromolecules like enzymes, DNA, peptides, causing changes of surface charge and the folding of polypeptide chain(structure of protein). The function of proteins will be different. Cationic surfactant can bind to the inner membrane of bacteria, and by this way disorganize the bacteria through their long alkyl chain. Nonionic surfactants are able to bind to both proteins and phospholipid membrane, leading to leakage of low molecular mass compounds by increasing the permeability of membranes and vesicles. This may result in serious damage in cells or even cell death.\n\n—LAS and its biodegradation\n\nLinear alkylbenzene sulfonate (LAS) with the formula of CHCHSONa, also known as sodium dodecylbenzene sulfonate, is the most widely used anionic surfactant in laundry detergent because it has minimal environmental impact for its readily biodegradation.\n\nA complete biodegradation under aerobic conditions consists of two steps, primary biodegradation and ultimate biodegradation. The first step begins from the terminal carbon in the alkyl chain as omega-oxidation, which can start from one or both ends, then is followed by beta-oxidation. After the first step the residual is sulfophenyl(di)carboxylates (SP(d)Cs), a large molecule which can be involved in the second step. The second step occurs only when the required bacteria exist. The ring cleavage of benzene and the further desulphonation of the mono- and dicarboxyilic sulphophenyl acids happen. After the two-step biodegradation, LAS is degraded into carbon dioxide, water, inorganic salts and residual biomass. During the biodegradation, several specific bacteria and oxygen are required in both omega-oxidation of the alkyl chain and the benzene ring cleaving process, so this biodegradation can only happen in aerobic conditions. In anaerobic conditions in treatment process, LAS shows no change. Researchers also prove that biodegradation process is restricted in 20–40 mg/L and even inhibited at a higher concentration, which leads to the incomplete biodegradation of LAS in sewage treatment plants.\n\nBuilders in detergents are water softeners, which can remove calcium and magnesium ions by complexation or precipitation in a hard water (water contains a lot of calcium and magnesium).\n\nSodium triphosphate, with a formula of NaPO, is a largely used builder in laundry detergents, which can lead to eutrophication caused by phosphorus (P). P is needed for energy transfer, the formation of DNA, RNA and many other intermediary metabolites. Only P in orthophosphate can be assimilated by autotrophs, other P compounds like sodium triphosphate can be chemically or enzymatically hydrolyzed to orthophosphate. The mechanism is shown below.\n\nExcessive phosphorus can make for excessive production of autotrophs, like algae and cyanobacteria, leading to eutrophication in an inorganic nutrient pathway. Nutrient enrichment in lakes and reservoirs results in the microscopic floating plants, algae and formation of dense mats of larger floating plants that can produce oxygen by photosynthesis. When they die and sink to the bottom, they consume oxygen in decomposition. Bacteria thriving in this process consume oxygen. With the depletion of oxygen, fishes die and anaerobic bacteria produce methane, hydrogen sulfide and ammonia, which can destroy the ecosystem.\n\nTo reduce the eutrophication caused by sodium triphosphate, there are phosphorus-free builders substitutes nowadays, such as inorganic builders zeolite A and soda ash, and organic builders like polycarboxylates, citrates et al.\n"}
{"id": "38917951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38917951", "title": "Erika Sylva Charvet", "text": "Erika Sylva Charvet\n\nErika Sylva Charvet (born 24 November 1951) is an Ecuadorian politician who was Minister of Culture from 21 April 2010 until 9 May 2013.\n\nErika Sylva was born in Quito. She is married. Her husband has an academic background like Sylva and works at the Universidad Central del Ecuador. She speaks her native Spanish and English.\n\nShe studied Literature in the Pontificia Universidad Católica del Ecuador and afterwards she got her licentiate at the Universidad Central del Ecuador in Sociology and Political Science. Later on she got a postgraduate degree in Political Science by the Facultad Latinoamericano de Ciencias Sociales in Mexico writing her thesis about the surge of natural cultural identity in Ecuador. She spent most of her career as an academic researcher at several universities and institutions, she has an interest in gender issues.\n\nOn 21 April 2010 Sylva joined the cabinet of Rafael Correa as Minister of Culture, she replaced Ramiro Noriega. At the ceremony of taking office she declared that one of her main objectives would be to promote cultural change among Ecuadorians. She stated: \"It is necessary to promote cultural change, new values, a new vision of who we are, to fight racism, elitism, and to promote interculturalism among Ecuadorians, both women and men\". In March 2012 it was announced that Sylva would start a project to support a culture of peace in the border area with Colombia. The goal of the project was to activate social cohesion and fight the social disintegration coming from the conflict-ridden Colombian side of the border. In June 2012 she received the decoration of \"Honoring Honor\" by the José Martí Council for World Solidarity, a project ratified by UNESCO whose objectives are, among others, to acknowledge and consolidate Latin American roots. She got her decoration for strengthening the historic ties between the peoples of Ecuador and Cuba.\n\nIn a document by Sylva and Rafael Quintero, Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs, it was claimed that the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE) has been conspiring against President Rafael Correa since 2009 to destabilize the constituent process of Ecuador. The authors furthermore claimed that CONAIE was working together with extreme right and financial help from institutions in the United States. Furthermore, it was also claimed that the indigenous movement together with the teachers union has become part of the corporatist political left. This would express itself by defending private interests and being neoliberal in nature. The CONAIE however claims to fight against these very neoliberal causes themselves. Relations between the Ecuadorian government and CONAIE have been tense since the 2010 Ecuador crisis.\n\nOn 9 May 2013 Francisco Velasco replaced Sylva as Minister of Culture. By a reshuffle of the ministries the Ministry of Culture joined with the Ministry of Heritage.\n"}
{"id": "52227753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52227753", "title": "Flashman (film)", "text": "Flashman (film)\n\nFlashman is a 1967 Italian film directed by Mino Loy and written by Ernesto Gastaldi.\n\n\nFor the script Ernesto Gastaldi was inspired by H.G. Wells' novella \"The Invisible Man\". Gastaldi noted that the starting point for the films development was comic books and director Mino Loy's desire to develop a film with special effects involving partially reflecting mirrors. It was directed by Mino Loy, whose real name was Guglielmo Loy Donà. It was his third last film as a director.\n\n\"Flashman\" was released in Italy in 1967 where it was distributed by Indipendenti Regionali.\n\nIn a retrospective film historian Roberto Curti noted that the special effects vary in quality throughout the film, ranging from objects on visible fishing wire and poor miniature work while praising the work on the invisibility effects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "316656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316656", "title": "Fourth World", "text": "Fourth World\n\nThe Fourth World is an extension of the three-world model, used variably to refer to\n\nThe term is not commonly accepted. \"Fourth World\" has also been used to refer to other parts of the world in relation to the three-world model.\n\n\"Fourth World\" follows the First World, Second World, and Third World classification of nation-state status; however, unlike the former categories, \"Fourth World\" is not spatially bounded, and is usually used to refer to size and shape which does not map onto citizenship in a specific nation-state. It can denote nations without a sovereign state, emphasizing the perceived non-recognition and exclusion of ethnically- and religiously-defined peoples from the politico-economic world system, such as the First Nations groups throughout North, Central and South America. Spanish sociologist Manuel Castells of the University of Southern California Annenberg School for Communication has made extensive use of the term \"fourth world\".\n\nThe term originated in Georgia with a remark by Mbuto Milando, first secretary of the Tanzanian High Commission, in conversation with George Manuel, Chief of the National Indian Brotherhood (now the Assembly of First Nations). Milando stated that \"When Native peoples come into their own, on the basis of their own cultures and traditions, that will be the Fourth World.\"\n\nSince publication of Manuel's \"The Fourth World: An Indian Reality\" (1974), the term \"Fourth World\" became synonymous with stateless, poor, and marginal nations. Since 1979, think tanks such as the Center for World Indigenous Studies have used the term in defining the relationships between ancient, tribal, and non-industrial nations and modern industrialised nation-states. With the 2007 UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, communications and organizing amongst Fourth World peoples have accelerated in the form of international treaties between aboriginal nations for the purposes of trade, travel, and security.\nIn the Indian left movement, Dr. M. P. Parameswaran's ideas on the fourth world caused widespread debates, which eventually led to his expulsion from the Communist Party of India (Marxist) in 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5011857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5011857", "title": "Global Marijuana March", "text": "Global Marijuana March\n\nThe Global Marijuana March (GMM), also referred to as the Million Marijuana March (MMM), is an annual rally held at different locations around the world on the first Saturday in May. A notable event in cannabis culture, it is associated with cannabis-themed events, which may include marches, meetings, rallies, raves, concerts, festivals, and attempts at educational outreach.\n\nThe first Global Marijuana March was held in 1999. Since then, hundreds of thousands of people have participated in over 829 different cities in 72 countries. Locally, the Global Marijuana March is associated with names including World Cannabis Day, Cannabis Liberation Day, Global Space Odyssey, Ganja Day, J Day, and Million Blunts March.\n\nOn June 15, 2011, the eight ministers of Brazil's Supreme Court (STF) that participated in the trial were unanimous in free demonstrations for the legalization of drugs, such as the Marcha da Maconha (, \"Marijuana Walk\") in Brazil, in which they decided that the demonstrations are an exercise of freedom of expression and not incitement to crime, as argued judges who have banned the march in the past. The discussion of the \"Marcha da Maconha\" reached the Supreme Court in June 2009 when the Deputy Attorney General of the Republic Deborah Duprat filed the claim of breach of fundamental precept, ADPF 187. In the lawsuit, the attorney states that the legal prohibition of the demonstrations in favor of marijuana and other narcotics have been based on misinterpretation of the Criminal Code. She said that it is \"wrong\" to say that the realization of these events are an \"apology to crime\".\n\nMarijuana was brought to Brazil by its African slaves, and with the eugenic positivist intellectual and political status quo of the Western civilization in the early 20th century, its use was deemed as a signal of decadence by its stigmatized use as a recreational drug of the poor, the rural people and the Afro-Brazilian. Its association with the counterculture and left-wing youths during the highly anti-Communist military dictatorship, initially a strong ally of the United States' government, fortified its negative perceptions both by the authorities and the masses. Nevertheless, since the neoliberal centre-right government of Fernando Henrique Cardoso (1994–2002), position strengthened in the so-called \"Era Lula\" (2003–2010), individual marijuana use by adults started to have no major importance to police and government instances – though not (since the country has major crime problems with drug dealers) its domestic cultivation for own consumption. One can see and smell people smoking the so-called \"maconha\" openly in Brazil's Centre-Southern half as well as in the Northeastern states, and recreational use of cannabis in private became more accepted among large sectors of the middle classes since the early 1990s. The academic milieu is no exception and, today, a sizeable minority of Brazilian University lecturers, students and researchers smoke marijuana.\n\nThe rally at Queen's Park in Toronto, Ontario, Canada has been held since 1999. 20,000 people participated in 2007, and 15,000 in 2008. For the May 2, 2009 event the \"Toronto Star\" reported: \"Police estimate roughly 12,000 people filled the north lawns of Queen's Park yesterday afternoon, with about 5,000 participating in a 2 p.m. march to decriminalize marijuana.\" In 2011 the \"Toronto Star\" reported 25,000 at Queen's Park, and 20,000 on the march through downtown. \"CTV News\" reported \"Tens of thousands march\".\n\nHeld in Regina on the first Saturday of May since 1999, originally at the Saskatchewan Legislature. Starting in 2001, it was held in Victoria Park, in the center of Regina's downtown, until 2008 when changes to the City's permit policy forced organizers to change the location to Central Park.\nThe event features live music mixed with speakers on various topics, sometimes with only an incidental connection to marijuana.\n\nHeld in Vancouver, BC on the first Saturday of May. People gather at the fountain at the Vancouver Art Gallery at or before 2:00pm for a marijuana legalization parade through the streets of downtown Vancouver. The parade route is different every year.\n\nIn France the so-called is celebrated in Paris, Lyon, Toulouse, Marseille, Rennes, Lille, Saint-Denis-de-la-Réunion, Cognac, and some other minor cities in the country.\n\nIn New Zealand J Day is celebrated in some of the major cities.\n\nJ-Day in Dunedin, is celebrated in the city's centre of town, The Octagon, on the first Saturday of May from 'High Noon' until 4:20 pm.\nDunedin is arguably chronologically the first city in the world to host any GMM event. Named '4:20 Extreme', local participants climb the famous Baldwin Street to meet at the top by 4:20 am. Locally J-Day coincides with The University of Otago Capping Parade, in which a multitude of ceremony-attending graduates parade down the main street on their way to the Town Hall ceremony, and also the University Hall Parade, in which University of Otago dormitory-student decorated themed floats parade down the main street, stopping in the Octagon typically armed with many water balloons, and collectively shouting chants of dormitory-specific pride.\n\nDunedin became famous for its JDay festivities in 2003 when around 50 activists marched to the Central Dunedin Police Station, where they planted cannabis plants and smoked cannabis in the main foyer as acts of protest. The event was given considerable national and international media attention as no arrests were made. The Central Dunedin Police Station was hot-boxed again on JDay in 2004 by over 100 activists, again with no arrests. This second incident was also covered by the media, resulting in the Dunedin Area Police Commander, Dave Campbell, justifying the fact that no arrests were made with the quote, \"We had more important things to do\" in the Otago Daily Times.\n\nThe 2007 International J-Day in Dunedin featured political speakers and music provided by local DJs and counted 170 people at mid-day. In the lead up to J-Day 2008, NORML NZ's Maryjane the Cannabus toured 42 towns between Auckland and Dunedin in 42 days for daily law reform rallies. The Cannabus arrived in Dunedin, New Zealand's most cannabis friendly city, on April 25 for a week-long 'Cannabis Awareness Week' which was planned by Otago NORML and featured public workshops, informational lectures at Otago University, and a round-table discussion featuring university academics, MPs, and policy researchers. Cannabis Awareness Week culminated with J-Day on May 3, 2008.\n\nThe 2008 J-Day in Dunedin was well attended despite sleet and hail early in the day. Over 500 supporters participated in the event, enjoying games, prizes, political speeches and music from Bushmaster and Ashes of Eden.\n\nCopenhagen\nIn Copenhagen the Marijuana march has been an annual tradition for more than 15 years. The march takes places on the first Saturday of may and departs from The Freetown Christiania, walks through central Copenhagen and ends at the city hall square. Klaus Trier Tuxen from Danish the Hampepartiet has had a prominent role in organizing the event in recent years.\nCannabis smoking is illegal in Denmark, but during the march the police does not enforce this regulation and smoking is de facto allowed during the demonstration.\n\nAs of 2011, the Moorish Science Temple of America has been doing the Los Angeles Million Marijuana March for 13 years at Leimert park in Los Angeles, California. The 2-day 2011 celebration marks the first time bands have filled the 2 days. Leimert Park is a famed free speech arena, which has also held Black Panther rallies and more since its inception. Acclaimed rap artist Ditch headlined both days, and was in charge of band booking and advertising. The event went off well with over 2,000 people attending over the 2 days. Ditch was honored for being able to bring unity to that area among so many different races and types of people. Ditch also honored jailed freedom fighter Eddy Lepp at the event. Eddy then called in live to the audience from Federal prison in which he is serving 10 years for cultivation of marijuana. Eddy's wife Linda Lepp was on hand to receive the award. This marks the third time so far that Eddy Lepp has spoken to a live concert audience from prison. Rapper RBX also performed at the Los Angeles march marking the first time in years he has performed in South Central Los Angeles.\n\nIn 1999, during the first worldwide Million Marijuana March New York City held another of its annual marijuana marches. The \"Village Voice\" reported on the police and organizer estimates of the crowd size: \"the police claim it was 4,000 people while organizers say 20,000\".\n\nIn 2009, the event organizer, Dana Beal, along with Chris Ryan, and Jay Stetzer on their way back from the NORML Conference in San Francisco all three men were charged with possession with intent to distribute and possession with intent to deliver 150 lbs. of marijuana.\n\nIn 2010, the event began to be organized by a new group of activists poised to take on New York city. It was after this that the NYC Event was renamed to, NYC Cannabis Parade. The NYC Cannabis Parade, organized by a steering committee of activists, have turned the event into a celebration of cannabis culture in NYC with a nearly 20 block parade and 4 hour rally proceeding it, there has not been a recorded arrest for possession or use for over 4 years now. \"'We have zero arrests, and we don’t plan on having any,' one sergeant told a Post reporter. Advocates praised the cops’ mellow take on toking as the latest sign New York was inching toward decriminalization.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12405", "title": "Gumby", "text": "Gumby\n\nGumby is an American clay animation franchise, centered on a green clay humanoid character created and modeled by Art Clokey. The character has been the subject of two television series, a feature-length film and other media. Since the original series aired, Gumby has become a famous example of stop-motion clay animation and an influential cultural icon, spawning tributes, parodies and merchandising.\n\n\"Gumby\" follows the titular character on his adventures through different environments and times in history. Gumby's primary sidekick is Pokey, a talking orange pony. His nemeses are the Blockheads, a pair of red humanoid figures with cube-shaped heads, inspired by the trouble-making Katzenjammer Kids. Other characters include Prickle, a yellow dinosaur who sometimes styles himself as a detective with pipe and deerstalker hat like Sherlock Holmes; Goo, a flying blue mermaid who spits blue goo balls and can change shape at will; Gumbo and Gumba, Gumby's parents; and Nopey, Gumby's dog whose entire vocabulary is the word \"nope\". The 1988 syndicated series added Gumby's sister Minga, mastodon friend Denali and chicken friend Tilly.\n\nGumby was created by Art Clokey in the early 1950s after he finished film school at the University of Southern California (USC).\n\nClokey's first animated film was a 1953 three-minute student film called \"Gumbasia\", a surreal montage of moving and expanding lumps of clay set to music in a parody of Disney's \"Fantasia\". \"Gumbasia\" was created in the \"kinesthetic\" style taught by Clokey's USC professor Slavko Vorkapić, described as \"massaging of the eye cells.\" Much of Gumby's look and feel was inspired by this technique of camera movements and editing.\n\nIn 1955, Clokey showed \"Gumbasia\" to movie producer Sam Engel, who encouraged him to develop his technique by animating figures into children's stories. Clokey moved forward, producing a pilot episode featuring the character Gumby.\n\nThe name \"Gumby\" came from the muddy clay found at Clokey's grandparents' farm that his family called \"gumbo\". Gumby's appearance was inspired by a suggestion from his wife, Ruth (née Parkander), that Gumby be based on the Gingerbread Man. The color green was then chosen because Clokey saw it as both racially neutral and a symbol of life. Gumby's legs and feet were made wide for pragmatic reasons; they ensured that the character would stand up during stop-motion filming. Gumby's famous slanted head was based on the hairstyle of Clokey's father, Charles Farrington, in an old photograph.\n\nClokey's pilot episode was seen by NBC executive Thomas Warren Sarnoff, who asked Clokey to make another one. The second episode, \"Gumby on the Moon\", became a huge hit on \"Howdy Doody\", leading Sarnoff to order a series in 1955 entitled \"The Gumby Show\". In 1955 and 1956, 25 eleven-minute episodes aired on NBC. In early episodes, Gumby's voice was provided by Ruth Eggleston, wife of the show's art director Al Eggleston, until Dallas McKennon assumed her role in 1957. Gumby's best friend, an orange pony named Pokey, was introduced during the earliest episodes. Because of its variety-type format, \"The Gumby Show\" featured not only Clokey's puppet films, but also interviews and games. During this time, the show went through a succession of two hosts, Robert Nicholson and Pinky Lee.\n\nIn 1959, \"The Gumby Show\" entered syndication, and more episodes were produced in the 1960s. Production started in Hollywood and in 1960 moved to a larger studio in Glendora, California, where it remained until production ended in 1969. During this time, Gumby was primarily voiced by Norma MacMillan, and occasionally by Ginny Tyler. The cartoon shorts introduced new characters including a blue mermaid named Goo and a yellow dinosaur named Prickle.\n\nBeginning in 1982, Gumby was parodied by Eddie Murphy on \"Saturday Night Live\". According to Murphy’s parody, when the television cameras were turned off, the sweet Gumby reverted to his true self: an irascible, cigar-chomping celebrity who was highly demanding of the production executives. Whenever the executives refused to give in to his demands, Gumby would assert his star status by saying “I’m \"Gumby\", dammit!\"\n\nIn 1987, the original Gumby shorts enjoyed a revival on home video. The following year, Gumby appeared in \"The Puppetoon Movie\".\n\nThis renewed interest led to a reincarnation of the series consisting of 99 new seven-minute episodes produced for television syndication in association with Lorimar-Telepictures in 1987. Dallas McKennon returned to voice Gumby in the new adventures, in which Gumby and his pals traveled beyond their toyland-type setting and established themselves as a musical band. The show also included new characters, such as Gumby's little sister Minga, a mastodon named Denali and a chicken named Tilly.\n\nIn addition to the new episodes, the 1950s and 1960s shorts were included in the series, but with new audio. The voices were re-recorded and the original music was replaced by Jerry Gerber's synthesizer score from the 1987 series. Legal issues prevented Clokey from renewing rights to the original Capitol Records production tracks.\n\nStarting in 1992, TV channels such as Nickelodeon and Cartoon Network aired reruns of \"Gumby\" episodes. In 1995, Clokey's production company produced an independently released theatrical film, \"\", marking the character's first feature-length adventure. In it, the villainous Blockheads replace Gumby and his band with robots and kidnap their dog, Lowbelly. The movie featured in-joke homages to science-fiction films such as \"Star Wars\", \"The Terminator\" and \"\". In 1998, the \"Gumby\" episode \"Robot Rumpus\" was featured on \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\".\n\nOn March 16, 2007, YouTube announced that all Gumby episodes would appear in their full-length form on its site, digitally remastered and with their original soundtracks. This deal also extended to other video sites, including AOL. In March 2007, KQED-TV broadcast an hour-long documentary \"Gumby Dharma\" as part of its \"Truly CA\" series.\n\nIn 2012, Me-TV began airing \"Gumby\" on weekend morning, in its weekend morning animation block. The show remained part of the channel's programming until the end of the year.\n\nOn April 8, 2015, it was announced that a new \"Gumby\" series was in the works, co-produced by the Jim Henson Company.\n\n\nIn 1993, \"TV Guide\" named \"Gumby\" the best cartoon series of the 1950s in its issue celebrating 40 years of television.\n\nBeginning in 1994, the Library of Congress used Gumby as a \"spokescharacter\" for \"Adventures into Books: Gumby's World\", a traveling exhibition that promoted the Center for the Book's national reading campaign from 1997 to 2000. By the end of the 1990s, Gumby and Pokey had also appeared in various commercials for Cheerios cereal, most notably Frosted Cheerios.\n\nOn August 4, 2006, the Center for Puppetry Arts in Atlanta opened \"Art Clokey's Gumby: The First Fifty Years\". This exhibition featured many of the original puppets and sets, along with screening of Art Clokey's films. This event was conceived by David Scheve of T.D.A. Animation and Joe Clokey of Premavision, and was one of several exhibits that opened around the country, celebrating the 50th anniversary of \"The Gumby Show\". The children's book \"Gumby Goes to the Sun\" was also published that year to commemorate the anniversary. The book was originally created in the 1980s by Clokey's daughter, Holly Harman.\n\nIn 2007, the \"Gumby\" comic book series was nominated for two Eisner Awards, Best New Series and Best Publication for a Young Audience, and won the latter.\n\nOn October 12, 2011, Google paid tribute to Art Clokey’s 90th birthday with a doodle featuring clay balls transforming into characters from the show. The doodle was composed of a toy block with a \"G\" and five clay balls in the Google colors. Clicking each of the balls revealed the Blockheads, Prickle, Goo, Gumby and Pokey.\n\nIn a 2014 episode of the Disney XD's \"Gravity Falls\" called \"Little Gift Shop of Horrors\", the character of Soos Ramirez appears in the \"Clay Day\" segment resembling Gumby.\n\nVarious Gumby merchandise has been produced over the years, the most prominent item being bendable figures by Lakeside Toys. Several single packs and multi-figure sets by Jesco (later Trendmasters), as well as a 50th anniversary collection, have been made of the Gumby characters. Also included in the Gumby merchandise catalog are plush dolls, keychains, mugs, a 1988 Colorforms set, a 1995 Trendmasters playset and a Kubricks set by Medicom. A tribute album, \"Gumby: The Green Album\", produced by Shepard Stern, was released in 1989 through Buena Vista Records.\n\nIn August 2005, the first video game featuring Gumby, \"Gumby vs. the Astrobots\", was released by Namco for the Game Boy Advance. In it, Gumby must rescue Pokey, Prickle and Goo after they are captured by the Blockheads and their cohorts, the Astrobots.\n\nThe Gumby images and toys are registered trademarks of Prema Toy Company. Premavision owned the distribution rights to the \"Gumby\" cartoons, having been reverted from previous distributor Warner Bros. Television in 2003, and had licensed the rights to Classic Media until September 30, 2012. At this time, Classic Media was officially acquired by DreamWorks Animation and branded as DreamWorks Classics, which became a subsidiary of NBCUniversal in 2016. As of April 2015, NCircle Entertainment owns home video and digital distribution rights to the cartoons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1555604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1555604", "title": "Gynandromorphism", "text": "Gynandromorphism\n\nA gynandromorph is an organism that contains both male and female characteristics. The term \"gynandromorph\", from Greek \"gyne\" female, \"andro\" male, and \"morphé\" form, is mainly used in entomology. These organisms are notable in butterflies, moths and other insects, where both male and female body parts can be distinguished physically because of sexual dimorphism.\n\nGynandromorphism has been observed in numerous animal species, e.g., crustaceans such as lobsters and crabs, many bird species. A clear example in birds involves gynandromorphic zebra finch. These birds have lateralised brain structures in the face of a common steroid signal, providing strong evidence for a non-hormonal primary sex mechanism regulating brain differentiation.\n\nA gynandromorph can have bilateral asymmetry—one side female and one side male. Alternatively, the distribution of male and female tissue can be more haphazard.\n\nBilateral gynandromorphy arises very early in development, typically when the organism has between 8 and 64 cells. Later stages produce a more random pattern.\n\nThe cause of this phenomenon is typically, but not always, an event in mitosis during early development. While the organism contains only a few cells, one of the dividing cells does not split its sex chromosomes typically. This leads to one of the two cells having sex chromosomes that cause male development and the other cell having chromosomes that cause female development. For example, an XY cell undergoing mitosis duplicates its chromosomes, becoming XXYY. Usually this cell would divide into two XY cells, but in rare occasions the cell may divide into an X cell and an XYY cell. If this happens early in development, then a large portion of the cells are X and a large portion are XYY. Since X and XYY dictate different sexes, the organism has tissue that is female and tissue that is male.\n\nA developmental network theory of how gynandromorphs develop from a single cell based on internetwork links between parental allelic chromosomes is given in. The major types of gynandromorphs, bilateral, polar and oblique are computationally modeled. Many other possible gynandromorph combinations are computationally modeled, including predicted morphologies yet to be discovered. The article relates gynandromorph developmental control networks to how species may form. The models are based on a computational model of bilateral symmetry.\n\nGynandromorphs occasionally afford a powerful tool in genetic, developmental, and behavioral analyses. In \"Drosophila melanogaster\", for instance, they provided evidence that male courtship behavior originates in the brain, that males can distinguish conspecific females from males by the scent or some other characteristic of the posterior, dorsal, integument of females, that the germ cells originate in the posterior-most region of the blastoderm, and that somatic components of the gonads originate in the mesodermal region of the fourth and fifth abdominal segment.\n\nIn his autobiography, \"Speak, Memory\", the writer and lepidopterist Vladimir Nabokov describes a gynandromorph butterfly, male on one side, female on the other, that he caught as a youth on his family's Russian estate.\n\nIn Kim Stanley Robinson's novel, \"2312\", some people choose to turn themselves into functional gynandromorphs. For example, the main protagonist, Swan Er Hong, is a gynandromorph. She was born a female, identifies herself as one, and mothered children. But she also fathered children, after acquiring male reproductive organs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12348366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12348366", "title": "Hahn Field Archeological District", "text": "Hahn Field Archeological District\n\nHahn Field Archeological District is a registered historic district near Newtown, Ohio, listed in the National Register of Historic Places on October 29, 1974.\n\n"}
{"id": "28327465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28327465", "title": "I Saw the Devil", "text": "I Saw the Devil\n\nI Saw the Devil () is a 2010 South Korean action horror thriller film directed by Kim Jee-woon, and written by Jee-woon and Park Hoon-jung. Starring Lee Byung-hun and Choi Min-sik, the film follows NIS agent Kim Soo-hyun (Byung-hun), who embarks on a quest of revenge when his fiancée is brutally murdered by a psychopathic murderer, Jang Kyung-chul (Min-sik). \"I Saw the Devil\" made its premiere in the United States at the 2011 Sundance Film Festival and had a limited U.S theatrical release.\n\n\"I Saw the Devil\" was Choi Min-sik's first major role since the changes to the Korean screen quota system.\n\nAcademy-bus driver Jang Kyung-chul runs into Jang Joo-yun one snowy night and offers to fix her flat tire. Kyung-chul kills her and scatters her body parts. When a boy discovers one of Joo-yun's ears, the police are called in under the command of Section Chief Oh and Squad Chief Jang (Joo-yun's father). Kim Soo-hyun, a secret service agent of the National Intelligence Service (NIS) and Joo-yun's fiancé, vows to track down and take vengeance on Joo-yun's murderer.\n\nJang supplies Soo-hyun with a list of four suspects, including Kyung-chul. Searching Kyung-chul's home, Soo-hyun finds jewelry and underwear taken from numerous victims. The discovery of Joo-yun's engagement ring proves that Kyung-chul is the killer. Soo-hyun places a tracking device on the school bus, following and then attacking Kyung-chul while he is sexually assaulting his latest victim - one of the schoolgirls he was transporting home. Beating him unconscious, Soo-hyun places a NIS transmitter inside Kyung-chul, allowing him to track him on radar and listen to his conversations. Waking up, Kyung-chul flags down a taxi. During the ride, Kyung-chul realizes that the two men in the cab are thugs looking to rob and possibly kill him. He stabs both men to death. After finding the real taxi driver in the trunk, Kyung-chul disposes of all three bodies before going to a medical center, where he attempts to sexually assault a nurse Han Song-yi. Soo-hyun intervenes and slashes Kyung-chul's Achilles tendon before letting him go again.\n\nKyung-chul goes to the home of his friend Tae-joo, a cannibalistic murderer. After explaining his situation, Tae-joo remarks that whoever is after him must have some relation to one of his victims. Soo-hyun arrives while Kyung-chul is having anal sex with Se-jung (Tae-joo's girlfriend), proceeding to incapacitate both murderers along with Se-jung after a fierce fight. The next day, both Tae-joo and Se-jung are found by the police and sent to a hospital. A trusted subordinate of Soo-hyun ensures he and Kyung-chul are sent to a private medical area away from the police. The barely conscious Kyung-chul hears them talk about the transmitter inside him.\n\nSoo-hyun dumps Kyung-chul, intending to continue stalking him. Kyung-chul taunts him over the transmitter, now knowing who he is. Kyung-chul brutally assaults a pharmacist while searching for laxatives, forcing Soo-hyun to rush to the aid of the victim. Kyung-chul uses this time to defecate out the transmitter and place it inside a taxi driver he viciously assaults in a public restroom. Soo-hyun interrogates Tae-joo and learns that Kyung-chul is going after Joo-yun's father Jang and sister Jang Se-yun.\n\nSoo-hyun is too late to stop Kyung-chul, who blinds Jang with a dumbbell and mutilates Se-yun. He narrowly abducts Kyung-chul before he can give up himself to the police. Soo-hyun tortures him before setting up a guillotine above Kyung-chul's head, which is triggered when his parents and son arrive to visit him and open the door to the room. Placing a transmitter nearby, Soo-hyun hears the death of Kyung-chul and his family's reaction to his decapitated corpse. Alternating between sobbing and fits of laughter, Soo-hyun suffers a mental breakdown while walking away from the house.\n\n\nThe Korea Media Rating Board forced Kim to recut the film for its theatrical release, objecting to its violent content. The film received a \"Restricted\" rating twice, preventing any sort of release in theatres or on home video and promotions as well. Seven cuts were made with the total runtime of removed material between eighty and ninety seconds.\n\n\"I Saw the Devil\" was released in South Korea on August 12, 2010. The film premiered at the 2011 Sundance Film Festival on 21 January 2011. It also received screenings at several other international film festivals, including the Fantasporto Film Festival, Toronto International Film Festival, Sitges Film Festival, San Sebastian Film Festival and the London Korean Film Festival.\n\nAmerican distribution rights were acquired by Magnet Releasing which released it in theatres on a limited basis on March 4, 2011.\n\nReview aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes gave the film an 80% approval rating from critics based on 80 reviews and an average score of 7.1/10. Metacritic assigned the film a score of 67%, based on a weighted average of 19 reviews from mainstream critics.\n\nJeannette Catsoulis of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"From an unexpectedly moving first act to a hilariously disgusting sojourn with Kyung-chul’s cannibal pal, Mr. Kim and his cinematographer, Lee Mogae, retain complete control of the film’s fluctuating tones and impressive set pieces.\" Mark Olson of the \"Los Angeles Times\" wrote, \"There is all the violent mayhem, for certain, but the thing that sets \"I Saw the Devil\" apart is its undercurrent of real emotion and how unrelentingly sad it can be.\" Rob Nelson from \"Variety\" magazine stated, \"Repugnant content, grislier than the ugliest torture porn, ought to have made the film unwatchable, but it doesn't, simply because Kim's picture is so beautifully filmed, carefully structured and viscerally engaging.\" Horror website Bloody Disgusting gave it a 4.5/5 rating and stated, \"I could talk for hours about I Saw the Devil, but nothing I can say will ever do it justice. The film is an experience; it’s something that will have you emotionally invested in the characters, while also covering your eyes at the extreme violence\", whereas \"Empire\" awarded the film with a 4/5 score, stating, \"This gleefully black horror-thriller is a very classy follow-up to \"The Good, the Bad, the Weird\" for Kim Jee-Woon\". Phelim O'Neil from \"The Guardian\" wrote, \"There's no shortage of Korean revenge-thrillers, but this, along with the recent \"The Man from Nowhere\", proves there is plenty of life left in the genre\" and gave it a four star rating out five.\n\nNot all critics were favorable towards the film's brutality; Mark Jenkins of \"The Washington Post\" wrote, \"Director Kim Jee-woon is a born filmmaker, even if this script (written by Park Hoon Jung and adapted by Kim) is unworthy of his efforts\" and rated it 2 out of 5 stars. \"The Hollywood Reporter\" wrote, \"On any number of levels, \"Devil\" is troublesome at best, offensive at worst\".\n\n\"Rolling Stone\" magazine put \"I Saw the Devil\" in the top 20 of \"the scariest movies you've never seen\".\n\nThe film was released on DVD in South Korea on 29 March 2011 as a 3 disc set, which contains both the Korean theatrical version and international version.\n\nSpecial features include:\n\nIt was released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc in the US on May 10, 2011. Special features include deleted scenes and \"HDNet: A Look at \"I Saw the Devil\"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54519306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54519306", "title": "Isn't It Romantic (2019 film)", "text": "Isn't It Romantic (2019 film)\n\nIsn't It Romantic is an upcoming 2019 American romantic fantasy comedy film directed by Todd Strauss-Schulson and written by Erin Cardillo, Dana Fox, and Katie Silberman. The film stars Rebel Wilson, Liam Hemsworth, Adam DeVine, and Priyanka Chopra, and follows a woman who, after getting hit on the head, wakes up in a world where everything around her plays out like a rom-com film. The film is scheduled to be released in the United States on February 14, 2019, by Warner Bros. Pictures and in the United Kingdom on Netflix.\n\nFor a long time, Natalie, an Australian architect living in New York City, had always believed that what she had seen in rom-coms is all fantasy. But after thwarting a mugger at a subway station only to be knocked out while fleeing, Natalie wakes up and discovers that she is self-aware of her existence in a \"PG-13\" rom-com universe and must escape every cliché in order to finally fall in love and achieve the happily ever after that will bring her back to reality.\n\n\nOn May 23, 2016, it was reported that Rebel Wilson would be starring as Natalie in an untitled romantic comedy film by New Line Cinema, from an original script by Erin Cardillo and rewrite by Dana Fox and Katie Silberman, while producers would be Todd Garner, Grant Scharbo, and Gina Matthews. On March 22, 2017, Todd Strauss-Schulson was hired to direct the film, titled \"Isn't It Romantic\", while it was revealed that a latest draft of the script was done by Paula Pell. On May 10, Adam DeVine, who previously co-starred with Wilson in the first two Pitch Perfect movies, and Liam Hemsworth were cast in the film to play love interests in Natalie's life. Priyanka Chopra was also cast in the film in May. On June 14, 2017, Betty Gilpin was cast in the film to play the Natalie's assistant Whitney, and one of her best friends.\n\nPrincipal photography on the film began on July 10, 2017, in New York City.\n\n\"Isn't It Romantic\" is scheduled to be released on February 14, 2019, by Warner Bros. Pictures. Netflix will handle international rights of the film.\n\n"}
{"id": "10865561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10865561", "title": "Keum-boo", "text": "Keum-boo\n\nKeum-boo (also Kum-Boo or Kum-bu—Korean \"attached gold\") is an ancient Korean gilding technique used to apply thin sheets of gold to silver, to make silver-gilt. Traditionally, this technique is accomplished by first depleting a surface of sterling silver to bring up a thin layer of fine silver. Then 24 carat gold foil is applied with heat and pressure—mechanical gilding—to produce a permanent diffusion bond. \n\nPure precious metals such as gold and silver have a very similar atomic structure and therefore have a good potential for bonding. Heating these metals to a temperature between 500–700°F increases the movement of the atoms. When pressure is added, this causes an electron exchange at the surface between the two metals, creating a permanent diffusion bond. This diffusion bond occurs far below the soldering temperature for either metal (Dhein, 2004).\n\nExamples of this technique have probably been observed, but not positively identified on pieces from the second half of the first millennium B.C. and from the early first millennium A.D. (Oddy, 1981).\n\nThis technique is used in many cultures, including Chinese, Japanese and in the West to bond gold to other metals, including iron, copper, aluminum, gold alloys, white gold, palladium and platinum. Foil made from gold alloys can be applied to silver and other metals by first depletion gilding the surface of the foil (Lewton-Brain, 1987–1993).\n\n"}
{"id": "45019304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45019304", "title": "Learned Society of the Czech Republic", "text": "Learned Society of the Czech Republic\n\nThe Learned Society of the Czech Republic (\"Učená společnost České republiky\") is an association of distinguished scholars of the Czech Republic from all scientific disciplines. Its goal is to support free conduct of research and furtherance of scientific knowledge. The Society was established in 1994 as a successor of The Royal Bohemian Society of Learning (founded in the end of the 18th century) and the Czech Academy of Sciences and Arts (founded in 1890).\n\nSociety membership is either as a Fellow (limited to 111 Fellows) or as an Honorary Fellow. The first elected president of the Learned Society of the Czech Republic was Rudolf Zahradník (1994–1997). Succeeding elected presidents were Josef Koutecký (1997–2002), František Šmahel (2002–2004), Jiří Grygar (2004–2008), Helena Illnerová (2008–2010), Václav Pačes (2010–2012), Petr Pokorný (2012–2014), Jiří Bičák (2014–2016) and Zdeněk Havlas (2016–2018).\n\nAccording to Act 83/1990, the Learned Society of the Czech Republic is a civic association. Its executive body is the Council of the Society.\n\nThe Czech Learned Society is a member of the Council of Scientific Societies of the Czech Republic.\n\nThe address of the Secretariat of the Learned Society of the Czech Republic is Národní 3, 110 00 Praha 1, Czech Republic,\n\n"}
{"id": "10945255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10945255", "title": "List of fields of doctoral studies in the United States", "text": "List of fields of doctoral studies in the United States\n\nThis is the list of the fields of doctoral studies in the United States used for the annual Survey of Earned Doctorates, conducted by NORC at the University of Chicago for the National Science Foundation and other federal agencies, as used for the 2015 survey.\n\nThese are fields of research-oriented doctoral studies, leading mostly to PhDs – in the academic year 2014–15, 98% of the 55,006 research doctorates awarded in the U.S. were PhDs; 1.1% were EdDs; 0.9% were other research doctorates. Professional degrees, though they are also considered doctorates (earned, not honorary), and do entitle the holder to call themselves \"Doctor\", such as MD, DDS, DVM, JD, DPharm, DMin and PsyD, are not included in the survey.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3636029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3636029", "title": "List of £5", "text": "List of £5\n\nList of £5 banknotes, bills or coins include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57977", "title": "Mad scientist", "text": "Mad scientist\n\nMad scientist (also mad doctor or mad professor) is a caricature of a scientist who is described as \"mad\" or \"insane\" owing to a combination of unusual or unsettling personality traits and the unabashedly ambitious, taboo or hubristic nature of their experiments. As a motif in fiction, the mad scientist may be villainous (evil genius) or antagonistic, benign or neutral; may be insane, eccentric, or clumsy; and often works with fictional technology or fails to recognize or value common human objections to attempting to play God. Some may have benevolent or good-spirited intentions, even if their actions are dangerous or questionable, which can make them accidental villains.\n\nThe prototypical fictional mad scientist was Victor Frankenstein, creator of his eponymous monster, who made his first appearance in 1818, in the novel \"Frankenstein, or the Modern Prometheus\" by Mary Shelley. Though the novel's title character, Victor Frankenstein, is a sympathetic character, the critical element of conducting experiments that cross \"boundaries that ought not to be crossed\", heedless of the consequences, is present in Shelley's novel. Frankenstein was trained as both an alchemist and a modern scientist, which makes him the bridge between two eras of an evolving archetype. The book is said to be a precursor of a new genre, science fiction, although as an example of gothic horror it is connected with other antecedents as well.\n\nThe year 1896 saw the publication of H. G. Wells's \"The Island of Doctor Moreau,\" in which the titular doctor—a controversial vivisectionist—has isolated himself entirely from civilisation in order to continue his experiments in surgically reshaping animals into humanoid forms, heedless of the suffering he causes.\n\nFritz Lang's movie \"Metropolis\" (1927) brought the archetypical mad scientist to the screen in the form of Rotwang, the evil genius whose machines had originally given life to the dystopian city of the title. Rotwang's laboratory influenced many subsequent movie sets with its electrical arcs, bubbling apparatus, and bizarrely complicated arrays of dials and controls. Portrayed by actor Rudolf Klein-Rogge, Rotwang himself is the prototypically conflicted mad scientist; though he is master of almost mystical scientific power, he remains a slave to his own desires for power and revenge. Rotwang's appearance was also influential—the character's shock of flyaway hair, wild-eyed demeanor, and his quasi-fascist laboratory garb have all been adopted as shorthand for the mad scientist \"look.\" Even his mechanical right hand has become a mark of twisted scientific power, echoed notably in Stanley Kubrick's film \"Dr. Strangelove, Or--How I Learned To Stop Worrying And Love The Bomb\" and in the novel \"The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch\" (1965) by Philip K. Dick.\n\nA recent survey of 1,000 horror films distributed in the UK between the 1930s and 1980s reveals mad scientists or their creations have been the villains of 30 percent of the films; scientific research has produced 39 percent of the threats; and, by contrast, scientists have been the heroes of a mere 11 percent.\n\nMad scientists were most conspicuous in popular culture after World War II. The sadistic human experimentation conducted under the auspices of the Nazis, especially those of Josef Mengele, and the invention of the atomic bomb, gave rise in this period to genuine fears that science and technology had gone out of control. That the scientific and technological build-up during the Cold War brought about increasing threats of unparalleled destruction of the human species did not lessen the impression. Mad scientists frequently figure in science fiction and motion pictures from the period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2494280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2494280", "title": "Magyarization", "text": "Magyarization\n\nMagyarization (also \"Magyarisation\", \"Hungarization\", \"Hungarisation\", \"Hungarianization\", \"Hungarianisation\"), after \"Magyar\"—the autonym of Hungarians—was an assimilation or acculturation process by which non-Hungarian nationals came to adopt the Hungarian culture and language, either voluntarily or due to social pressure, often in the form of a coercive policy.\n\nIn the era of national awakening, the Hungarian intellectuals transposed the concepts of the so-called \"Political Nation\" and Nation State from the Western European countries (especially the principles of the similarly highly multiethnic 18th century France), which included the idea of linguistic and cultural assimilation of minorities.\n\nThe Hungarian Nationalities Law (1868) guaranteed that all citizens of the Kingdom of Hungary (then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire), whatever their nationality, constituted politically \"a single nation, the indivisible, unitary Hungarian nation\", and there could be no differentiation between them except in respect of the official usage of the current languages and then only insofar as necessitated by practical considerations. In spite of the law, the use of minority languages was banished almost entirely from administration and even justice. Defiance of, or appeals to, the Nationalities Law met with derision or abuse. The Hungarian language was overrepresented in the primary schools, and almost all secondary education was in Hungarian.\n\nDuring the long nineteenth century, the Hungarian politicians and intellectuals stood firmly on the contemporary liberal conception of nationality question, which based solely on individualism. With the idea of individualism, they tried to reduce the minority question into a simple linguistic rights question, thus they denied the collective nationality rights and any plans for ethnic autonomous territories.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, the state apparatus was entirely Hungarian in language, as were business and social life above the lowest levels. The Magyarization of the towns had proceeded at an astounding rate. Nearly all middle-class Jews and Germans and many middle-class Slovaks and Ruthenes had been Magyarized. The percentage of the population with Hungarian as its mother tongue grew from 46.6% in 1880 to 54.5% in 1910. The 1910 census (and the earlier censuses) did not register ethnicity, but mother tongue (and religion) instead, based on which it is sometimes subject to criticism.\nHowever, most of the Magyarization happened in the centre of Hungary and among the middle classes, who had access to education; and much of it was the direct result of urbanization and industrialization. It had hardly touched the rural populations of the periphery, and linguistic frontiers had not shifted significantly from the line on which they had stabilized a century earlier.\n\nThe process continued also in post-Trianon era. The political and cultural rights offered to interwar Hungary's ethnic minorities were more limited than their equivalents in any other country of East-Central Europe. While anyone who resisted Magyarization was, indeed, subject to political and cultural handicaps, they were not subject to the kinds of civic and fiscal tricks (prejudicial court proceedings, overtaxation, biased application of social and economic legislation) that some of Hungary's neighbors often inflicted on their ethnic minorities.\n\nThe term specifically applies to the policies that were enforced in the Hungarian part of Austria-Hungary in the 19th century and early 20th century, especially after the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867, and in particular after the rise in 1871 of the Count Menyhért Lónyay as head of the Hungarian government.\n\nWhen referring to personal and geographic names, Magyarization refers to the replacement of a non-Hungarian name with a Hungarian one.\n\nAs is often the case with policies intended to forge or bolster national identity in a state, Magyarization was perceived by other ethnic groups such as the Romanians, Slovaks, Ruthenians (Rusyns or Ukrainians), Croats, Serbs, etc., as aggression or active discrimination, especially where they formed the majority of the population.\n\nAt the time of the Magyar conquest the Hungarian tribal alliance consisted of tribes of different ethnic backgrounds. There had to be a substantial Turkic element (e.g. Kabars). The subjugated local population in the Hungarian settlement area (mainly the lowland territories) quickly merged with the Hungarians. In the period between the 9th and 13th centuries more groups of Turkic peoples migrated to Hungary (Pechenegs, Cumans etc.). Their past presence is visible in the occurrence of Turkic settlement names.\n\nAccording to one of the theories, the ancestors of Székelys are Avars or Turkic Bulgars who were Magyarized in the Middle Ages. Others argue that the Székely people descended from a Hungarian-speaking \"Late Avar\" population or from ethnic Hungarians who received special privileges and developed their own consciousness.\n\nAs a reward for their achievements in wars, noble titles were granted to some Romanian knezes. They entered Hungarian nobility, a part of them converting to Catholicism and their families being Magyarized: the Drágffy (Drăgoşteşti), Hunyadi, Kendeffy (Cândeşti), Majláth (Mailat) or Jósika families were among the Romanian-origin Hungarian noble families.\n\nBetween 1000-1784 and 1790–1844, Latin was the language of administration, legislation and schooling in Kingdom of Hungary.{Cf. http://hungarianparliament.com/history/} Joseph II (1780–90), a monarch influenced by the Enlightenment sought to centralize control of the empire and to rule it as an enlightened despot. More than two and one half centuries following upon Martin Luther's \"95 Theses\" (1517) that in Central Europe, finally receptive of Protestantism, Emperor Joseph ll decreed that German replace Latin as the empire&apos;s official language. In 1790, the change in administrative and next official language had signaled the narrowing terminus of the Holy Roman Empire. This centralization/homogenization struggle was not unique to Joseph II, it was a trend that one could observe all around Europe with the birth of the enlightened idea of Nation State.\n\nHungarians perceived Joseph's language reform as German cultural hegemony, and they reacted by insisting on the right to use their own tongue. As a result, Hungarian lesser nobles sparked a renaissance of the Hungarian language and culture. The lesser nobles questioned the loyalty of the magnates, of whom less than half were ethnic Magyars, and even those had become French- and German-speaking courtiers.\n\nThe Magyarization policy actually took shape as early as the 1830s, when Hungarian started replacing Latin and German in education. Magyarization lacked any religious, racial or otherwise exclusionary component. Language was the only issue. The eagerness of the Hungarian government in its Magyarization efforts was comparable to that of tsarist Russification from the late 19th century.\n\nIn the early 1840s Lajos Kossuth pleaded in the newspaper \"Pesti Hirlap\" for rapid Magyarization: \"Let us hurry, let us hurry to Magyarize the Croats, the Romanians, and the Saxons, for otherwise we shall perish\". In 1842 he argued that Hungarian had to be the exclusive language in public life. He also stated that \"in one country it is impossible to speak in a hundred different languages. There must be one language and in Hungary this must be Hungarian\". Zsigmond Kemény supported a multinational state led by Magyars, but he disapproved Kossuth's assimilatory ambitions. István Széchenyi, who was more conciliatory toward other ethnic groups, criticized Kossuth for \"pitting one nationality against another\". He promoted the Magyarization of non-Hungarians on the basis of the alleged \"moral and intellectual supremacy\" of the Hungarian population. But he felt that first Hungary itself must be made worthy of emulation if Magyarization was to succeed. However the radical view on Magyarization of Kossuth gained more popular support than the moderate one of Széchenyi. The slogan of the Magyarization campaign was \"One country – one language – one nation\".\n\nOn 28 July 1849, Hungarian Revolutionary Parliament acknowledged and enacted foremost the ethnic and minority rights in the world, but it was too late: to counter the successes of the Hungarian revolutionary army, the Austrian Emperor Franz Joseph asked for help from the \"Gendarme of Europe\", Tsar Nicholas I, whose Russian armies invaded Hungary. The army of the Russian Empire and the Austrian forces proved too powerful for the Hungarian army, and General Artúr Görgey surrendered in August 1849.\n\nThe Magyar national reawakening therefore triggered national revivals among the Slovak, Romanian, Serbian, and Croatian minorities within Hungary and Transylvania, who felt threatened by both German and Magyar cultural hegemony. These national revivals later blossomed into the nationalist movements of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries that contributed to the empire's ultimate collapse.\n\nThe term Magyarization is used in regards to the national policies put into use by the government of the Kingdom of Hungary, which was part of the Habsburg Empire. The beginning of this process dates to the late 18th century and was intensified after the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867, which increased the power of the Hungarian government within the newly formed Austria-Hungary. some of them had little desire to be declared a national minority like in other cultures. However, Jews in Hungary appreciated the emancipation in Hungary at a time when anti-semitic laws were still applied in Russia and Romania. Large minorities were concentrated in various regions of the kingdom, where they formed significant majorities. In Transylvania proper (1867 borders), the 1910 census finds 55.08% Romanian-speakers, 34.2% Hungarian-speakers, and 8.71% German-speakers.\nIn the north of the Kingdom, Slovaks and Ruthenians formed an ethnic majority also, in the southern regions the majority were South Slavic Croats, Serbs and Slovenes and in the western regions the majority were Germans.\nThe process of Magyarization did not succeed in imposing the Hungarian language as the most used language in all territories in the Kingdom of Hungary. In fact the profoundly multinational character of historic Transylvania was reflected in the fact that during the fifty years of the dual monarchy, the spread of Hungarian as the second language remained limited. In 1880, 5.7% of the non-Hungarian population, or 109,190 people, claimed to have a knowledge of the Hungarian language; the proportion rose to 11% (183,508) in 1900, and to 15.2% (266,863) in 1910. These figures reveal the reality of a bygone era, one in which millions of people could conduct their lives without speaking the state's official language. The policies of Magyarization aimed to have a Hungarian language surname as a requirement for access to basic government services such as local administration, education, and justice.\n\nBetween 1850 and 1910 the ethnic Hungarian population increased by 106.7%, while the increase of other ethnic groups was far slower: Serbians and Croatians 38.2%, Romanians 31.4% and Slovaks 10.7%.\n\nThe Magyarization of Budapest was rapid and it implied not only the assimilation of the old inhabitants, but also the Magyarization of the immigrants. In the capital of Hungary, in 1850 56% of the residents were Germans and only 33% Hungarians, and in 1910 almost 90% declared themselves Magyars. This evolution had benefic influence to the Hungarian culture and literature.\n\nAccording to census data, the Hungarian population of Transylvania increased from 24.9% in 1869 to 31.6% in 1910. In the same time, the percentage of Romanian population decreased from 59.0% to 53.8% and the percentage of German population decreased from 11.9% to 10.7%. Changes were more significant in cities with predominantly German and Romanian population. For example, the percentage of Hungarian population increased in Braşov from 13.4% in 1850 to 43.43% in 1910, meanwhile the Romanian population decreased from 40% to 28.71% and the German population from 40.8% to 26.41%.\n\nThe first Hungarian government after the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867, the 1867–1871 liberal government led by Count Gyula Andrássy and sustained by Ferenc Deák and his followers, passed the 1868 Nationality Act, that declared \"all citizens of Hungary form, politically, one nation, the indivisible unitary Hungarian nation (\"nemzet\"), of which every citizen of the country, whatever his personal nationality (\"nemzetiség\"), is a member equal in rights.\" The Education Act, passed the same year, shared this view as the Magyars simply being \"primus inter pares\" (\"first among equals\"). At this time ethnic minorities \"de jure\" had a great deal of cultural and linguistic autonomy, including in education, religion, and local government.\n\nHowever, after education minister Baron József Eötvös died in 1871, and in Andrássy became imperial foreign minister, Deák withdrew from active politics and Menyhért Lónyay was appointed prime minister of Hungary. He became steadily more allied with the Magyar gentry, and the notion of a Hungarian political nation increasingly became one of a Magyar nation. \"[A]ny political or social movement which challenged the hegemonic position of the Magyar ruling classes was liable to be repressed or charged with 'treason'..., 'libel' or 'incitement of national hatred'. This was to be the fate of various Slovak, South Slav [e.g. Serb], Romanian and Ruthene cultural societies and nationalist parties from 1876 onward...\" All of this only intensified after 1875, with the rise of Kálmán Tisza, who as minister of the Interior had ordered the closing of Matica slovenská on 6 April 1875. Until 1890, Kálmán Tisza, when he served as prime minister, brought the Slovaks many other measures which prevented them from keeping pace with the progress of other European nations.\n\nFor a long time, number of non-Hungarians that lived in the Kingdom of Hungary was much larger than a number of ethnic Hungarians. According to the 1787 data, the population of the Kingdom of Hungary numbered 2,322,000 Hungarians (29%) and 5,681,000 non-Hungarians (71%). In 1809, the population numbered 3,000,000 Hungarians (30%) and 7,000,000 non-Hungarians (70%). As an increasingly intense Magyarization policy was implemented after 1867.\n\nAlthough in Slovak, Romanian and Serbian history writing administrative and often repressive Magyarization is usually singled out as the main factor accountable for the dramatic change in the ethnic composition of the Kingdom of Hungary in the 19th century, it should be noted that spontaneous assimilation was also an important factor. In this regard, it must be pointed out that large territories of central and southern Kingdom of Hungary lost their previous, predominantly Magyar population during the numerous wars fought by the Habsburg and Ottoman empires in the 16th and 17th centuries. These empty lands were repopulated, by administrative measures adopted by the Vienna Court especially during the 18th century, by Hungarians and Slovaks from the northern part of the Kingdom that avoided the devastation (see also Royal Hungary), Swabians, Serbs (Serbs were majority in most southern parts of the Pannonian Plain during Ottoman rule, i.e. before those Habsburg administrative measures), Croats and Romanians. Various ethnic groups lived side by side (this ethnic heterogeneity is preserved until today in certain parts of Vojvodina, Bačka and Banat). After 1867, Hungarian became the lingua franca on this territory in the interaction between ethnic communities, and individuals who were born in mixed marriages between two non-Magyars often grew a full-fledged allegiance to the Hungarian nation. Of course since Latin was the official language until 1844 and the country was directly governed from Vienna (which excluded any large-scale governmental assimilation policy from the Hungarian side before the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867, the factor of spontaneous assimilation should be given due weight in any analysis relating to the demographic tendencies of the Kingdom of Hungary in the 19th century.\n\nThe other key factor in mass ethnic changes is that between 1880 and 1910 about 3 million of Austro-Hungarians migrated to the United States alone. More than half of them were from Hungary (1.5 million+ or about 10% of the total population) alone. Besides the 1.5 million that fled to the US (2/3 of them or about a million were ethnically non Hungarians) mainly Romanians and Serbs had migrated to their newly established mother states in large numbers, like the Principality of Serbia or the Kingdom of Romania, who proclaimed their independence in 1878. Amongst them were such noted people, like the early aviator Aurel Vlaicu (represented on the 50 Romanian lei banknote) or famous writer Liviu Rebreanu (first illegally in 1909, then legally in 1911) or Ion Ivanovici. Also many fled to Western Europe or other parts of the Americas.\n\nMany Slovak intellectuals and activists (such as Janko Kráľ) were imprisoned or even sentenced to death during the Hungarian Revolution of 1848. One of the incidents that shocked European public opinion was the Černová (Csernova) massacre when 15 people were killed and 52 injured in 1907. The massacre caused the Kingdom of Hungary to lose prestige in the eyes of the world when English historian R. W. Seton-Watson, Norwegian writer Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson and Russian writer Leo Tolstoy championed this cause. The case being a proof for the violence of Magyarization is disputed, partly because the sergeant who ordered the shooting and all the shooters were ethnic Slovaks and partly because of the controversial figure of Andrej Hlinka.\n\nThe writers who condemned forced Magyarization in printed publications were likely to be put in jail either on charges of \"treason\" or for \"incitement of national hatred\".\n\nSchools funded by churches and communes had the right to provide education in minority languages. These church-funded schools, however, were mostly founded before 1867, that is, in different socio-political circumstances. In practice, the majority of students in commune-funded schools who were native speakers of minority languages were instructed exclusively in Hungarian.\n\nBeginning with the 1879 Primary Education Act and the 1883 Secondary Education Act, the Hungarian state made more efforts to reduce the use of non-Magyar languages, in strong violation of the 1868 Nationalities Law.\n\nThe number of minority-language schools was steadily decreasing: in the period between 1880 and 1913, when the number of Hungarian-only schools almost doubled, the number of minority language-schools almost halved. Nonetheless, Transylvanian Romanians had more Romanian-language schools under the Austro-Hungarian Empire rule than there were in the Romanian Kingdom itself. Thus, for example, in 1880, in Austro-Hungarian Empire there were 2,756 schools teaching exclusively in the Romanian language, while in the Kingdom of Romania there were only 2,505 (The Romanian Kingdom gained its independence from the Ottoman Empire only two years before, in 1878). The process of Magyarization culminated in 1907 with the \"lex Apponyi\" (named after education minister Albert Apponyi) which forced all primary school children to read, write and count in Hungarian for the first four years of their education. From 1909 religion also had to be taught in Hungarian. \"In 1902 there were in Hungary 18,729 elementary schools with 32,020 teachers, attended by 2,573,377 pupils, figures which compare favourably with those of 1877, when there were 15,486 schools with 20,717 teachers, attended by 1,559,636 pupils. In about 61% of these schools the language used was exclusively Magyar\" Approximately 600 Romanian villages were depleted of proper schooling due to the laws. As of 1917, 2,975 primary schools in Romania were closed as a result.\n\nThe effect of Magyarization on the education system in Hungary was very significant, as can be seen from the official statistics submitted by the Hungarian government to the Paris Peace Conference (formally, all the Jewish people of the kingdom were considered as Hungarians, who had higher ratio in tertiary education than Christians):\n\nThe census system of the post-1867 Kingdom of Hungary was unfavourable to those of non-Hungarian nationality. According to the 1874 election law, which remained unchanged until 1918, only the upper 5.9% to 6.5% of the whole population had voting rights. That effectively excluded almost the whole of the peasantry and the working class from Hungarian political life. The percentage of those on low incomes was higher among other nationalities than among the Magyars, with the exception of Germans who were generally richer. From a Hungarian point of view, the structure of the settlement system was based on differences in earning potential and wages. The Hungarians and Germans were much more urbanised than Slovaks, Romanians and Serbs in the Kingdom of Hungary.\n\nIn 1900, nearly a third of the deputies were elected by fewer than 100 votes, and close to two-thirds were elected by fewer than 1000 votes. Transylvania had an even worse representation: the more Romanian a county was, the fewer voters it had. Out of the Transylvanian deputies sent to Budapest, 35 represented the 4 mostly Hungarian counties and the major towns (which together formed 20% of the population), whereas only 30 deputies represented the other 72% of the population, which was predominantly Romanian.\n\nIn 1913, even the electorate that elected only one-third of the deputies had a non-proportional ethnic composition. The Magyars who made up 54.5% of the population of the Kingdom of Hungary represented a 60.2% majority of the electorate. Ethnic Germans made up 10.4% of the population and 13.0% of the electorate. The participation of other ethnic groups was as follows: Slovaks (10.7% in population, 10.4% in the electorate), Romanians (16.1% in population, 9.9% in the electorate), Rusyns (2.5% in population, 1.7% in the electorate), Croats (1.1% in population, 1.0% in the electorate), Serbs (2.2% in population, 1.4% in the electorate), and others (2.2% in population, 1.4% in the electorate).\n\nOfficially, Hungarian electoral laws never contained any legal discrimination based on nationality or language. The high census suffrage was not uncommon in other European countries in the 1860s but later the countries of Western Europe gradually lowered and at last abolished their census suffrage. That never happened in the Kingdom of Hungary, although electoral reform was one of the main topics of political debates in the last decades before World War I.\n\nHungarian authorities put constant pressure upon all non-Hungarians to Magyarize their names and the ease with which this could be done gave rise to the nickname of \"Crown Magyars\" (the price of registration being one korona). In 1881 the \"Central Society for Name Magyarization\" (Központi Névmagyarositó Társaság) was founded in 1881 in Budapest. The aim of this private society was to provide advice and guidelines for those who wanted to Magyarize their surnames. Simon Telkes became the chairman of the society, and professed that \"one can achieve being accepted as a true son of the nation by adopting a national name\". The society began an advertising campaign in the newspapers and sent out circular letters. They also made a proposal to lower the fees for changing one's name. The proposal was accepted by the Parliament and the fee was lowered from 5 Forints to 50 Krajcárs. After this the name changes peaked in 1881 and 1882 (with 1261 and 1065 registered name changes), and continued in the following years at an average of 750–850 per year. During the Bánffy administration there was another increase, reaching a maximum of 6,700 applications in 1897, mostly due to pressure from authorities and employers in the government sector. Statistics show that between 1881 and 1905 alone, 42,437 surnames were Magyarized, although this represented less than 0.5% of the total non-Hungarian population of the Kingdom of Hungary. Voluntary Magyarization of German or Slavic-sounding surnames remained a typical phenomenon in Hungary during the whole course of the 20th century.\n\nAccording to Hungarian statistics and considering the huge number of assimilated persons between 1700 and 1944 (~3 million) only 340,000–350,000 names were Magyarised between 1815 and 1944; this happened mainly inside the Hungarian-speaking area. One Jewish name out of 17 was Magyarised, in comparison with other nationalities: one out of 139 (Catholic) -427 (Lutheran) for Germans and 170 (Catholic) -330 (Lutheran) for Slovaks.\n\nThe attempts to assimilate the Carpatho-Rusyns started in the late 18th century, but their intensity grew considerably after 1867. The agents of forced Magyarization endeavored to rewrite the history of the Carpatho-Rusyns with the purpose of subordinating them to Magyars by eliminating their own national and religious identity. Carpatho-Rusyns were pressed to add Western Rite practices to their Eastern Christian traditions and efforts were made to replace the Slavonic liturgical language with Hungarian.\n\nTogether with Magyarization of personal names and surnames, the exclusive use of the Hungarian forms of place names, instead of multilingual usage, was also common. For those places that had not been known under Hungarian names in the past, new Hungarian names were invented and used in administration instead of the former original non-Hungarian names. Examples of places where non-Hungarian origin names were replaced with newly invented Hungarian names are: Szvidnik – Felsővízköz (in Slovak Svidník, now Slovakia), Sztarcsova – Tárcsó (in Serbian Starčevo, now Serbia), Lyutta – Havasköz (in Ruthenian Lyuta, now Ukraine), Bruck – Királyhida (now Bruck an der Leitha, Austria). (although Bruck and Királyhida were two separate towns, separated by the boundary formed by the river Leitha)\n\nA list of geographical names in the former Kingdom of Hungary, which includes place names of Slavic, Romanian or German origin that were replaced with newly invented Hungarian names between 1880 and 1918. On the first place the former official name used in Hungarian is given, on the second the new name and on the third place the name as it was restored after 1918 with the proper orthography of the given language.\n\nDuring the dualism era, there was an internal migration of segments of the ethnically non-Hungarian population to the Kingdom of Hungary's central predominantly Hungarian counties and to Budapest where they assimilated. The ratio of ethnically non-Hungarian population in the Kingdom was also dropping due to their overrepresentation among the migrants to foreign countries, mainly to the United States. Hungarians, the largest ethnic group in the Kingdom representing 45.5% of the population in 1900, accounted for only 26.2% of the emigrants, while non-Hungarians (54.5%) accounted for 72% from 1901 to 1913. The areas with the highest emigration were the northern mostly Slovak inhabited counties of Sáros, Szepes, Zemlén, and from Ung county where a substantial Rusyn population lived. In the next tier were some of the southern counties including Bács-Bodrog, Torontál, Temes, and Krassó-Szörény largely inhabited by Serbs, Romanians, and Germans, as well as the northern mostly Slovak counties of Árva and Gömör-Kishont, and the central Hungarian inhabited county of Veszprém. The reasons for emigration were mostly economic. Additionally, some may have wanted to avoid Magyarization or the draft, but direct evidence of other than economic motivation among the emigrants themselves is limited. The Kingdom's administration welcomed the development as yet another instrument of increasing the ratio of ethnic Hungarians at home.\n\nThe Hungarian government made a contract with the English-owned Cunard Steamship Company for a direct passenger line from Rijeka to New York. Its purpose was to enable the government to increase the business transacted through their medium.\n\nBy 1914, a total number of 3 million had emigrated, of whom about 25% returned. This process of returning was halted by World War I and the partition of Austria-Hungary. The majority of the emigrants came from the most indigent social groups, especially from the agrarian sector. Magyarization did not cease after the collapse of Austria-Hungary but has continued within the borders of the post-WW-I Hungary throughout most of the 20th century and resulted in high decrease of numbers of ethnic Non-Hungarians.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, the Neolog Jews were located mainly in the cities and larger towns. They arose in the environment of the latter period of the Austro-Hungarian Empire - generally a good period for upwardly mobile Jews, especially those of modernizing inclinations. In the Hungarian portion of the Empire, most Jews (nearly all Neologs and even most of the Orthodox) adopted the Hungarian language as their primary language and viewed themselves as \"Magyars of the Jewish persuasion\". The Jewish minority which to the extent it is attracted to a secular culture is usually attracted to the secular culture in power, was inclined to gravitate toward the cultural orientation of Budapest. (The same factor prompted Prague Jews to adopt an Austrian cultural orientation, and at least some Vilna Jews to adopt a Russian orientation.)\n\nAfter the emancipation of Jews in 1867, the Jewish population of the Kingdom of Hungary (as well as the ascending German population) actively embraced Magyarization, because they saw it as an opportunity for assimilation without conceding their religion. (We also have to point out that in the case of the Jewish people that process had been preceded by a process of Germanization earlier performed by Habsburg rulers). Stephen Roth writes, \"Hungarian Jews were opposed to Zionism because they hoped that somehow they could achieve equality with other Hungarian citizens, not just in law but in fact, and that they could be integrated into the country as Hungarian Israelites. The word 'Israelite' () denoted only religious affiliation and was free from the ethnic or national connotations usually attached to the term 'Jew'. Hungarian Jews attained remarkable achievements in business, culture and less frequently even in politics. During the cabinet of pm. István Tisza three Jewish men were appointed as ministers. The first was Samu Hazai (Minister of War), János Harkányi (Minister of Trade) and János Teleszky (Minister of Finance). But even the most successful Jews were not fully accepted by the majority of the Magyars as one of their kind—as the events following the Nazi German invasion of the country in World War II so tragically demonstrated.\" However, in the 1930s and early 1940s Budapest was a safe haven for Slovak, German and Austrian Jewish refugees and a center of Hungarian Jewish cultural life.\n\nIn 2006 the Company for Hungarian Jewish Minority could not collect 1000 signatures for a petition to declare Hungarian Jews a minority even though there are at least 100,000 Jews in the country. The official Hungarian Jewish religious organization, Mazsihisz advised not to vote for the new status because they think that Jews identify themselves as a religious group, not as a 'national minority'. There was no real control throughout the process and non-Jewish people could also sign the petition.\n\n\nA considerable number of other nationalities remained within the frontiers of the post-Trianon Hungary:\n\nAccording to the 1920 census 10.4% of the population spoke one of the minority languages as their mother language:\n\n\nThe number of bilingual people was much higher, for example\n\nHungarian was spoken by 96% of the total population and was the mother language of 89%.\n\nIn interwar period, Hungary expanded its university system so the administrators could be produced to carry out the Magyarization of the lost territories for the case they were regained. In this period the Roman Catholic clerics dwelled on Magyarization in the school system even more strongly than did the civil service.\n\nThe percentage and the absolute number of all non-Hungarian nationalities decreased in the next decades, although the total population of the country increased. Bilingualism was also disappearing. The main reasons of this process were both spontaneous assimilation and the deliberate Magyarization policy of the state. Minorities made up 8% of the total population in 1930 and 7% in 1941 (on the post-Trianon territory).\n\nAfter World War II about 200,000 Germans were deported to Germany according to the decree of the Potsdam Conference. Under the forced exchange of population between Czechoslovakia and Hungary, approximately 73,000 Slovaks left Hungary. After these population movements Hungary became an ethnically almost homogeneous country except the rapidly growing number of Romani people in the second half of the 20th century.\n\nAfter the First Vienna Award which gave Carpathian Ruthenia to Hungary, a Magyarization campaign was started by the Hungarian government in order to remove Slavic nationalism from Catholic Churches and society. There were reported interferences in the Uzhorod (Ungvár) Greek Catholic seminary, and the Hungarian-language schools excluded all pro-Slavic students.\n\nAccording to Chris Hann, most of the Greek Catholics in Hungary are of Rusyn and Romanian origin, but they have been almost totally Magyarized. While according to the Hungarian Catholic Lexicon, though originally, in the 17th century, the Greek Catholics in the Kingdom of Hungary were mostly composed of Rusyns, Ukrainians and Romanians, they also had Polish and Hungarian members. Their number increased drastically in the 17-18th centuries, when during the conflict with Protestants many Hungarians joined the Greek Catholic Church, and so adopted the Byzantine Rite rather than the Latin. In the end of the 18th century, the Hungarian Greek Catholics themselves started to translate their rites to Hungarian and created a movement to create their own diocese.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19987372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19987372", "title": "Man the Hunter", "text": "Man the Hunter\n\n\"Man the Hunter\" was the name given to a 1966 symposium organized by Richard Lee and Irven DeVore. The symposium resulted in a book of the same title and attempted to bring together for the first time a comprehensive look at recent ethnographic research on hunter-gatherers.\n\nEriksen and Nielson (2001, p.82) argue that the symposium was one of the high points of cultural ecology. They report the symposium as concentrating on contemporary hunters and gatherers and noted that the contributors were mostly American cultural anthropologists. The main point of the conference was that given that hunting was humanity's original source of livelihood, any theory of society and the nature of Man would require a deep knowledge of how hunters live. The symposium also emphasised the rivalry between cultural and materialist understanding of culture and society. \n\nThe symposium was held at the Center for Continuing Education, University of Chicago, from April 6th to the 9th, 1966 and was attended by several of the most influential figures in then contemporary anthropology. In addition to Lee and DeVore, the symposium was attended by Marshall Sahlins, Aram Yengoyan, George Peter Murdock, Colin Turnbull, Lewis Binford, and Julian Steward.\n\nThe corresponding book, of papers presented at the symposium, was published by Aldine Transaction in 1968, under ISBNs 020233032X and 9780202330327.\n\n"}
{"id": "11661468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11661468", "title": "Naming conventions for women in ancient Rome", "text": "Naming conventions for women in ancient Rome\n\nNaming conventions for women in ancient Rome differed from nomenclature for men, and practice changed dramatically from the Early Republic to the High Empire and then into Late Antiquity. Females were identified officially by the feminine of the family name \"(nomen gentile\", that is, the \"gens\" name), which might be further differentiated by the genitive form of the father's \"cognomen\", or for a married woman her husband's. Numerical adjectives might distinguish among sisters, such as \"Tertia\", \"the Third\" (compare Generational titles in English names). By the late Republic, women also adopted the feminine of their father's \"cognomen\".\n\nA woman kept her own family name after she married, though she might be identified in relation to her husband: the name Clodia Metelli, \"Clodia [wife] of Metellus,\" preserves the birth name \"Clodia\" and adds her husband's name to specify which Clodia. Children usually took the father's name. In the Imperial period, however, children might sometimes make their mother's family name part of theirs, or even adopt it instead.\n\nWomen in the early to mid-Republic were usually known by their family name \"(nomen)\". A woman from the \"gens Aemilia\" would be called Aemilia; from the \"gens Cornelia\", Cornelia; from the \"gens Sempronia\", Sempronia; and so on. If there were many daughters, a cognomen such as Tertia (\"Third\") could indicate birth order, for example, Aemilia Tertia, the wife of Scipio Africanus. (She, however, is better known as Aemilia Paulla.) The comparative adjectives \"Maior\" and \"Minor\", meaning \"the Elder\" and \"the Younger\" when attached to a name, might distinguish between two sisters; for example, the daughters of Gaius Laelius Sapiens are known as Laelia Maior and Laelia Minor.\n\nBirth order is not the best or only predictor of a woman's perceived importance or prominence; Cornelia Africana most commonly refers to Cornelia Africana Minor, the younger daughter of Scipio Africanus, and not to her elder sister.\n\nSons, by comparison, were distinguished by a \"praenomen\", the first or personal name of a Roman male's typical three names \"(tria nomina)\". The eldest son was most often given the same \"praenomen\" as his father, with others given the name of a grandfather or uncle. This tradition casts doubt on the usage of numerical names: the masculine \"praenomina\" Quintus (\"the Fifth\"), Sextus (\"the Sixth\"), and Decimus (\"the Tenth\") were widely used without reference to birth order, because they were passed on. Thus the semi-legendary Claudia Quinta should have been the fifth daughter of her patrician father from the \"gens Claudia\", but it is doubtful that four older sisters existed: \"Quinta\" is probably an archaic feminine \"praenomen\" that later Latin authors treated as a \"cognomen\".\n\nBy the Late Republic, a \"cognomen\", the third of the \"tria nomina\", becomes more important in distinguishing family branches of the main \"gens\". The importance of the \"cognomen\" is reflected also in naming practice as it pertains to women, for example Cornelia Sulla, Pompeia Magna, Cornelia Metella. Licinia Crassa Maior and Licinia Crassa Minor were daughters of Lucius Licinius Crassus.\n\nIn the era of Augustus and thereafter, Roman women used more varied first names and sometimes even two first names. Naming practice became less rigid, as is evidenced among women of the Julio-Claudian dynasty. While Augustus's wives were known by their father's \"gens\" name (Clodia Pulchra, Scribonia, and Livia) and Tiberius's wives were known by their fathers' less-known gentilical names (Vipsania Agrippina and Julia the Elder), by the third generation of the Imperial family, naming patterns had changed. Julia's daughters by her second husband Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa were Julia the Younger and Agrippina the Elder, not Vipsania Tertia and Vipsania Quarta. Likewise, Agrippina the Elder's daughters were Agrippina the Younger, Drusilla, and Livilla, and not named for their father's adoptive family, the \"gens\" Julia. Likewise, in the family of Octavia the Younger and Mark Antony, the naming patterns for their daughters (Antonia Major and Antonia Minor) and Octavia's by her first husband (Claudia Marcella Major and Claudia Marcella Minor) are conventional, but that for their granddaughter Livilla (daughter of Nero Claudius Drusus) is not.\n\nIn later generations, two names were adopted by females. This meant that Claudius's daughters were not Claudia Major and Claudia Minor, but Claudia Antonia by his marriage to Aelia Paetina and Claudia Octavia by his marriage to Messalina. Among the elite, names such as Pomponia Graecina became common. In still later generations, women's names bore little or no resemblance to their father's family names. For example, in the Flavian dynasty, Titus's daughter was not Flavia. In the Severan dynasty, most women bore the first name of Julia, even if it was not the family's gentilical name, but the second name was different and hence was used to distinguish them. In the Theodosian dynasty, the daughter of Theodosius I was not Theodosia but Galla Placidia, and named partly for her mother.\n\n\nSome empresses were given the \"praenomen\" Julia even if they are unrelated to the \"gens\" Julia. Some, like Livia and Agrippina the Younger, were awarded the \"agnomen\" of \"Augusta\" (\"Majestic\"), a parallel of their husbands' (\"Augustus\").\n\nIn Late Antiquity, women were frequently named for their mothers or other female relatives, who in turn were often named for female (or sometimes male) Christian saints. Thus the Empress Galla Placidia's name shows only her mother's name, not her father's. Other examples: Arria was a daughter of Thrasea Paetus and his wife Arria; and possibly Considia, daughter of Servilius Nonianus.\n\nEmpresses bearing pagan names—e.g. Aelia Eudocia, formerly Athenaïs—were renamed to have more Christian names, sometimes for an earlier empress. A few empresses such as Theodora, wife of Justinian, were also allegedly renamed. Late Byzantine empresses bore names derived via Latin from Greek:\n\nMost of these names showed Greek influences, while a few were clearly the names of Christian female saints.\n\n"}
{"id": "54487521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54487521", "title": "Naseem Khan (activist)", "text": "Naseem Khan (activist)\n\nNaseem Fatima Khan OBE (11 August 1939 – 8 June 2017) was a British journalist, activist, cultural historian and educator who was influential in effecting policy change about cultural diversity. \n\nShe wrote a report entitled \"The Arts Britain Ignores\" in 1976, which was the first major study highlighting the integral part played in UK culture by black and Asian artists, and also that year she founded the Minority Arts Advisory Service (MAAS). As a journalist she was one of the first theatre reviewers for \"Time Out\" magazine, and later wrote regularly for publications including the \"New Statesman\", \"The Guardian\" and \"The Independent\".\n\nNaseem Khan was born in Birmingham, England, to Abdul Wasi Khan, a doctor from India, and Gerda (née Kilbinger), the daughter of a German trade unionist. After attending Roedean School, Khan studied for an English degree at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford. She went on to work as a journalist, editing Notting Hill's black magazine \"The Hustler\", with such contemporaries as Darcus Howe, becoming theatre editor at \"Time Out\" (1978–81), and subsequently working at \"City Limits\". She also wrote for the \"New Statesman\", where she had a column, and for \"The Guardian\", \"The Independent\" and \"Good Housekeeping\".\n\nHer report \"The Arts Britain Ignores\", published in 1976 (jointly supported by the Community Relations Commission, Arts Council of Great Britain and Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation), focused on the cultural contributions made ethnic minorities communities while raising questions about the institutional support such work was given. Her founding that year of the Minority Arts Advisory Service (MAAS) was followed by a body of work in diversity policy for organisations including the Council of Europe, UNESCO, Museums and Galleries Commission, Gulbenkian Foundation, Asia-Europe Foundation and the Arts Councils of England, Scotland and Wales.\n\nShe was appointed an OBE in the 1999 Birthday Honours for services to cultural diversity.\n\nShe married journalist John Torode in 1974 and they had two children, Amelia and George, before separating amicably in 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "3470558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3470558", "title": "Parasites Lost", "text": "Parasites Lost\n\n\"Parasites Lost\" is the second episode in season three of \"Futurama\". Although the title is a play on John Milton's epic poem \"Paradise Lost\", the episode is a parody of the 1966 film \"Fantastic Voyage\". It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on January 21, 2001.\n\nWhile making a pit stop at an interstellar truck stop, Fry buys and eats a decaying egg salad sandwich from a vending machine in the restroom. Upon returning to Earth, Fry and Bender are assigned the task of fixing the plasma fusion boiler, which promptly explodes. Bender is not damaged, but Fry is impaled by a large pipe. Despite the severity of the injury, Fry's damaged body repairs itself in seconds, and the subsequent medical examination reveals to the crew that Fry is infested with microscopic worms from the egg salad sandwich.\n\nTo eliminate the infestation, Professor Farnsworth makes miniature robotic versions of the crew, except for Fry and Leela. Because the worms know all that Fry knows and would thus defend themselves if Fry knew about the mission, Leela is assigned to distract Fry, who is not told what is happening. Controlling the micro-droids using virtual reality gear, the crew board a miniature Planet Express ship, and enter Fry's ear. Throughout the travel, the crew discover that the worms are drastically improving Fry's intelligence, health, and fitness.\n\nThe crew make their way into Fry's bowel, and fight their way to the pelvic splanchnic ganglion, intending to cause a massive bowel movement to expel the worm society. Meanwhile, Leela is enchanted by the now intelligent and muscular Fry. Fry reveals that he loves Leela but only recently was he able to articulate his thoughts. Leela realizes that the worms are responsible for the new, improved Fry, and sets out to stop the Professor. Her micro-droid reaches the nerve, and hacks the rest of the micro-droid crew to pieces with an axe. The Professor tells her that the worms will burrow so deep into Fry's body, he will be stuck with them forever, but Leela reasons that Fry is better off with the worms.\n\nFry is informed of what has been happening, but is more interested in romancing Leela than clearing the worms out of his body. Although the two share a romantic evening at Leela's apartment—made more powerful when Fry composes Leela a sonnet on the complex musical instrument the Holophonor—Leela tells Fry that she loves the new him. Worried, Fry tells her that he needs to find out something, leaves, and, using his own micro-droid, enters his own body.\n\nFry confronts the worm leader and engages him in a sword fight after asking the worms to leave so he can learn if Leela loves him or just what they have made of him; he eventually coerces the worms into leaving by threatening to kill himself by destroying the medulla oblongata. With the worms gone, Fry returns to Leela's apartment and explains to her about the worms, and his decision to dispose of them. His awkward attempts at being romantic end when he mentions his previous relationship with Amy, and Leela kicks him out of her apartment. Back at his apartment, Fry begins to re-learn the Holophonor, and creates a crude image of Leela.\n\nPeter Avanzino, director of the first four broadcast seasons of \"Futurama\" and two of the straight-to-DVD movies, has stated that episodes with challenging new scenes to draw are his favorites. In particular he notes that he thinks this episode is fun because \"It has microscopic characters inside a human body, a 3-D colonoscopy, a sword fight, a holophoner sequence (involving otters and characters dancing on Saturn's rings), some sweet sweet lovemaking, and a space-truck stop.\"\n\nThe storyboard artist for this episode, Rodney Clouden, was honored with an Emmy award in 2001 for \"Individual Achievement in Animation\". This episode is also a fan favorite and in 2006 IGN named it as number four in their list of the top 25 \"Futurama\" episodes. IGN praised the episode for both its humor and the deepening of Fry and Leela's relationship, particularly the scenes where Fry is willing to \"hurt himself and lessen what he has become for Leela\". It was dropped off the list in IGN's 2013 reassessment. In 2007 \"Entertainment Weekly\" named \"Futurama\" number 21 on their list of the top 25 science fiction movies and TV shows of the last 25 years (1982–2007). In the article, this episode was identified as the \"best bit\" of the series.\n\nIn its initial airing, the episode received a Nielsen rating of 4.8/8, placing it 79th among primetime shows for the week of January 15–21, 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "479154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479154", "title": "Police procedural", "text": "Police procedural\n\nThe police procedural, or police crime drama, is a subgenre of detective fiction that emphasizes the investigative procedure of a police officer or department as the protagonist(s), as contrasted with other genres that focus on a private investigator or amateur detective. Unlike traditional mysteries, which conceal the criminal's identity until the police solve the crime in the narrative climax (the so-called whodunnit), police procedurals often reveal the perpetrator's identity to the audience early in the narrative, making it an inverted detective story or \"howcatchem\" . Police procedurals attempt to accurately depict such police-related topics as forensic science, autopsies, gathering evidence, search warrants, interrogation and adherence to legal restrictions and procedure.\n\nThe roots of the police procedural have been traced to at least the mid-1880's. Wilkie Collins's novel \"The Moonstone\" (1868), a tale of a Scotland Yard detective investigating the theft of a valuable diamond, has been described as perhaps the earliest clear example of the genre.\n\nAs detective fiction rose to worldwide popularity in the late 1800's and early 1900's, many of the pioneering and most popular characters, at least in the English-speaking world, were private investigators or amateurs. See C. Auguste Dupin, Sherlock Holmes, Sam Spade, Miss Marple and others. Hercule Poirot was described as a veteran of the Belgian police but as a protagonist he worked independently. Only after WW2 would police procedural fiction rival the popularity of PIs or amateur sleuths.\n\nLawrence Treat's 1945 novel \"V as in Victim\" is often cited as the first police procedural, by Anthony Boucher (mystery critic for the \"New York Times Book Review\") among others. Another early example is Hillary Waugh's \"Last Seen Wearing ...\", 1952. Even earlier examples from the 20th Century, predating Treat, include the novels \"Vultures in the Dark\", 1925, and \"The Borrowed Shield\", 1925, by Richard Enright, retired New York City Police Commissioner, \"Harness Bull\", 1937, and \"Homicide\", 1937, by former Southern California police officer Leslie T. White, \"P.C. Richardson's First Case\", 1933, by Sir Basil Thomson, former Assistant Commissioner of Scotland Yard, and the short story collection \"Policeman's Lot\", 1933, by former Buckinghamshire High Sheriff and Justice of the Peace Henry Wade.\n\nThe procedural became more prominent after World War II, and, while the contributions of novelists like Treat were significant, a large part of the impetus for the post-war development of the procedural as a distinct subgenre of the mystery was due, not to prose fiction, but to the popularity of a number of American films which dramatized and fictionalized actual crimes. Dubbed \"semidocumentary films\" by movie critics, these motion pictures, often filmed on location, with the cooperation of the law enforcement agencies involved in the actual case, made a point of authentically depicting police work. Examples include \"The Naked City\" (1948), \"The Street with No Name\" (1948), \"T-Men\" (1947), \"He Walked by Night\" (1948), and \"Border Incident\" (1949).\n\nFilms from other countries soon began following the semi-documentary trend. In France, there was \"Quai des orfevres\" (1947), released in the United States as \"Jenny Lamour\". In Japanese cinema, there was Akira Kurosawa's 1949 film \"Stray Dog\", a serious police procedural film noir that was also a precursor to the buddy cop film genre. In the UK, there were films such as \"The Blue Lamp\" (1950) and \"The Long Arm\" (1956) set in London and depicting the Metropolitan Police.\n\nOne semidocumentary, \"He Walked By Night\" (1948), released by Eagle-Lion Films, featured a young radio actor named Jack Webb in a supporting role. The success of the film, along with a suggestion from LAPD Detective Sergeant Marty Wynn, the film's technical advisor, gave Webb an idea for a radio drama that depicted police work in a similarly semi-documentary manner. The resulting series, \"Dragnet\", which debuted on radio in 1949 and made the transition to television in 1951, has been called \"the most famous procedural of all time\" by mystery novelists William L. DeAndrea, Katherine V. Forrest and Max Allan Collins.\n\nThe same year that \"Dragnet\" debuted on radio, Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Sidney Kingsley's stage play \"Detective Story\" opened on Broadway. This frank, carefully researched dramatization of a typical day in an NYPD precinct detective squad became another benchmark in the development of the police procedural.\n\nOver the next few years, the number of novelists who picked up on the procedural trend grew to include writers like Ben Benson, who wrote carefully researched novels about the Massachusetts State Police, retired police officer Maurice Procter, who wrote a series about North England cop Harry Martineau, and Jonathan Craig, who wrote short stories and novels about New York City police officers. Police novels by writers who would come to virtually define the form, like Hillary Waugh, Ed McBain, and John Creasey started to appear regularly.\n\nIn 1956, in his regular \"New York Times Book Review\" column, mystery critic Anthony Boucher, noting the growing popularity of crime fiction in which the main emphasis was the realistic depiction of police work, suggested that such stories constituted a distinct subgenre of the mystery, and, crediting the success of \"Dragnet\" for the rise of this new form, coined the phrase \"police procedural\" to describe it.\n\nEd McBain, the pseudonym of Evan Hunter, wrote dozens of novels in the \"87th Precinct\" series beginning with \"Cop Hater,\" published in 1956. Hunter continued to write 87th Precinct novels almost until his death in 2005. Although these novels focus primarily on Detective Steve Carella, they encompass the work of many officers working alone and in teams, and Carella is not always present in any individual book.\n\nAs if to illustrate the universality of the police procedural, many of McBain's 87th Precinct novels, despite their being set in a slightly fictionalized New York City, have been filmed in settings outside New York, even outside the US. Akira Kurosawa's 1963 film, \"High and Low\", based on McBain's \"King's Ransom\" (1959), is set in Tokyo. \"Without Apparent Motive\" (1972), set on the French Riviera, is based on McBain's \"Ten Plus One\" (1963). Claude Chabrol's \"Les Liens de Sang\" (1978), based on \"Blood Relatives\" (1974), is set in Montreal. Even \"Fuzz\" (1972), based on the 1968 novel, though set in the US, moves the action to Boston.\n\nPerhaps ranking just behind McBain in importance to the development of the procedural as a distinct mystery subgenre is John Creasey, a prolific writer of many different kinds of crime fiction, from espionage to criminal protagonist. He was inspired to write a more realistic crime novel when his neighbor, a retired Scotland Yard detective, challenged Creasey to \"write about us as we are.\" The result was \"Inspector West Takes Charge\", 1940, the first of more than forty novels to feature Roger West of the London Metropolitan Police. The West novels were, for the era, an unusually realistic look at Scotland Yard operations, but the plots were often wildly melodramatic, and, to get around thorny legal problems, Creasey gave West an \"amateur detective\" friend who was able to perform the extra-procedural acts that West, as a policeman, could not.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, inspired by the success of television's \"Dragnet\" and a similar British TV series, \"Fabian of the Yard\", Creasey decided to try a more down-to-earth series of cop stories. Adopting the pseudonym \"J.J. Marric\", he wrote \"Gideon's Day\", 1955, in which George Gideon, a high-ranking detective at Scotland Yard, spends a busy day supervising his subordinates' investigations into several unrelated crimes. This novel was the first in a series of more than twenty books which brought Creasey his best critical notices. One entry, \"Gideon's Fire\", 1961, won an Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America for Best Mystery Novel. The Gideon series, more than any other source, helped establish the common procedural plot structure of threading several autonomous story lines through a single novel.\n\nMaj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö planned and wrote the Martin Beck police procedural series of ten books between the 1960s and 1970s, set in Sweden. The series is particularly renowned for its extensive character development throughout the series. Beck himself is gradually promoted from detective in a newly nationalised Swedish police force to Chief Inspector of the National Murder Squad, and the realistic depiction, as well as criticism of the Swedish welfare state at the time whilst the tedium of the police procedural continues in the background, is something still widely used today, with authors such as Jo Nesbø and Stieg Larsson. The books gave rise to the Swedish noir scene, and \"The Laughing Policeman\" earned a \"Best Novel\" Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America in 1971. The books were translated from Swedish into 35 different languages, and have sold roughly ten million copies. Sjöwall and Wahlöö used black humour extensively in the series, and it is widely recognised as one of the finest police procedural series.\n\nA prolific author of police procedurals, whose work has fallen out of fashion in the years since her death, is Elizabeth Linington writing under her own name, as well as \"Dell Shannon\" and \"Lesley Egan.\" Linington reserved her Dell Shannon pseudonym primarily for procedurals featuring LAPD Central Homicide Lieutenant Luis Mendoza (1960–86). Under her own name she wrote about Sergeant Ivor Maddox of LAPD's North Hollywood Station, and as Lesley Egan she wrote about suburban cop Vic Varallo. These novels are often considered severely flawed, partly due to the author's far-right political viewpoint (she was a proud member of the John Birch Society), but primarily because Miss Linington's books, notwithstanding the frequent comments she made about the depth of her research, were all seriously deficient in the single element most identified with the police procedural, technical accuracy. However, they have a certain charm in their depiction of a kinder, gentler California, where the police were always \"good guys\" who solved all the crimes and respected the citizenry.\n\nIt has been suggested that the \"Inspector Maigret\" novels of Georges Simenon aren't really procedurals because of their strong focus on the lead character, but the novels have always included subordinate members of his staff as supporting characters. More importantly, Simenon, who had been a journalist covering police investigations before creating Maigret, was giving an accurate depiction, or at least the appearance of an accurate depiction, of law enforcement in Paris. Further, Simenon's influence on later European procedural writers, like Sweden's Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö, or Baantjer, is obvious.\n\nThough not the first police officer to write procedurals, Joseph Wambaugh's success has caused him to become the exemplar of cops who turn their professional experiences into fiction. The son of a Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, policeman, Wambaugh joined the Los Angeles Police Department after a stint of military duty. In 1970, his first novel, \"The New Centurions\", was published. This followed three police officers through their training in the Academy, their first few years on the street, culminating in the Watts riots of 1965. It was followed by such novels as \"The Blue Knight\", 1971, \"The Choirboys\", 1975, \"Hollywood Station\", 2006, and acclaimed non-fiction books like \"The Onion Field\", 1973, \"Lines and Shadows\", 1984, and \"Fire Lover\", 2002. Wambaugh has said that his main purpose is less to show how cops work on the job, than how the job works on cops.\n\nTony Hillerman, the author of 17 novels involving Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn, wrote procedurals in which the procedures were those of the Navajo Tribal Police.\n\nIt is difficult to disentangle the early roots of the procedural from its forebear, the traditional detective novel, which often featured a police officer as protagonist. By and large, the better known novelists such as Ngaio Marsh produced work that falls more squarely into the province of the traditional or \"cozy\" detective novel. Nevertheless, some of the work of authors less well known today, like Freeman Wills Crofts's novels about Inspector French or some of the work of the prolific team of G.D.H. and Margaret Cole, might be considered as the antecedents of today's police procedural. British mystery novelist and critic Julian Symons, in his 1972 history of crime fiction, \"Bloody Murder\", labeled these proto-procedurals \"humdrums,\" because of their emphasis on the plodding nature of the investigators.\n\n\n\n\nRex frequently saved the team's necks during pursuits and catching criminals, sniffing out clues, rescuing child victims, as well as occasionally being a nuisance around the office or while interviewing suspects.\nThe show mixes series themes with occasional comedy, such as Rex's penchant for ham rolls (wurstsemmeln), demanding to buy many dog toys, and interfering with Moser's & Brandtner's erratic love lives.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe comic strip \"Dick Tracy\" is often pointed to as an early procedural. Indeed, in his introduction to a 1970 collection of \"Tracy\" strips entitled \"The Celebrated Cases of Dick Tracy\", no less an authority than Ellery Queen suggested that Tracy, predating Webb, Treat, Creasey, and McBain, was the first \"truly\" procedural policeman in any fictional medium.\n\nCertainly \"Tracy\" creator Chester Gould seemed to be trying to reflect the real world. Tracy himself, conceived by Gould as a \"modern-day Sherlock Holmes\", was partly modeled on real-life law enforcer Eliot Ness, and his first, and most frequently recurring, antagonist, the Big Boy, was based on Ness's real-life nemesis Al Capone. Other members of Tracy's Rogues Gallery, like Boris Arson, Flattop Jones, and Maw Famon, were inspired, respectively, by John Dillinger, Charles \"Pretty Boy\" Floyd, and Kate \"Ma\" Barker.\n\nMore to the point, Gould was making a genuine attempt to portray police work realistically. Once \"Tracy\" was sold to the \"Chicago Tribune\" syndicate, Gould enrolled in a criminology class at Northwestern University, met with members of the Chicago Police Department, and did research at the Department's crime lab, to make his depiction of law enforcement more authentic. Ultimately, he hired retired Chicago policeman Al Valanis, a pioneering forensic sketch artist, as both an artistic assistant and police technical advisor.\n\nLater stories, in which Gould veered into space opera and extraterrestrial contacts, mitigated somewhat against the strip's being recognized for its early use of realistic police procedure, but any examination of the \"Tracy\" strip from its beginnings in 1931 through the 1950s makes Gould's status as a pioneer in the police procedural subgenre clear.\n\nThe success of \"Tracy\" led to many more police strips. While some, like Norman Marsh's \"Dan Dunn\" were unabashedly slavish imitations of \"Tracy\", others, like Dashiell Hammett's and Alex Raymond's \"Secret Agent X-9\", took a more original approach. Still others, like Eddie Sullivan's and Charlie Schmidt's \"Radio Patrol\" and Will Gould's \"Red Barry\", steered a middle course. One of the best post-\"Tracy\" procedural comics was \"Kerry Drake\", written and created by Allen Saunders and illustrated by Alfred Andriola. It diverged from the metropolitan settings used in \"Tracy\" to tell the story of the titular Chief Investigator for the District Attorney of a small-town jurisdiction. Later, following a personal tragedy, he leaves the DA's Office and joins his small city's police force in order to fight crime closer to the grass roots level. As both a DA's man and a city cop, he fights a string of flamboyant, Gould-ian criminals like \"Stitches\", \"Bottleneck\", and \"Bulldozer.\"\n\nOther syndicated police strips include Zane Grey's \"King of the Royal Mounted\", depicting police work in the contemporary Canadian Northwest, Lank Leonard's \"Mickey Finn\", which emphasized the home life of a hard-working cop, and \"Dragnet\", which adapted stories from the pioneering radio-TV series into comics. Early comic books with police themes tended to be reprints of syndicated newspaper strips like \"Tracy\" and \"Drake\". Others adapted police stories from other mediums, like the radio-inspired anthology comic \"Gang Busters\", Dell's \"87th Precinct\" issues, which adapted McBain's novels, or \"The Untouchables\", which adapted the fictionalized TV adventures of real-life policeman Eliot Ness.\n\nMore recently, there have been attempts to depict police work with the kind of hard-edged realism seen in the novels of writers like Wambaugh, such as Marvel's four-issue mini-series \"Cops: The Job\", in which a rookie police officer learns to cope with the physical, emotional, and mental stresses of law enforcement during her first patrol assignment. With superheroes having long dominated the comic book market, there have been some recent attempts to integrate elements of the police procedural into the universe of costumed crime-fighters. \"Gotham Central\", for example, depicts a group of police detectives operating in Batman's Gotham City, and suggested that the caped crime-fighter is disliked by many Gotham detectives for treading on their toes. Meanwhile, \"Metropolis SCU\" tells the story of the Special Crimes Unit, an elite squad of cops in the police force serving Superman's Metropolis.\n\nThe use of police procedural elements in superhero comics can partly be attributed to the success of Kurt Busiek's groundbreaking 1994 series \"Marvels\", and his subsequent \"Astro City\" work, both of which examine the typical superhero universe from the viewpoint of the common man who witnesses the great dramas from afar, participating in them tangentially at best.\n\nIn the wake of Busiek's success, many other writers mimicked his approach, with mixed results – the narrative possibilities of someone who does not get involved in drama are limited. In 2000, however, Image Comics published the first issue of Brian Michael Bendis's comic \"Powers\", which followed the lives of homicide detectives as they investigated superhero-related cases. Bendis's success has led both Marvel Comics and DC Comics to begin their own superhero-themed police procedurals (\"District X\" and the aforementioned \"Gotham Central\"), which focus on how the job of a police officer is affected by such tropes as secret identities, superhuman abilities, costumes, and the near-constant presence of vigilantes.\n\nWhile the detectives in \"Powers\" were \"normal\" (unpowered) humans dealing with super-powered crime, Alan Moore and Gene Ha's \"Top 10\" mini-series, published by America's Best Comics in 2000–01, centered around the super-powered police force in a setting where powers are omnipresent. The comic detailed the lives and work of the police force of Neopolis, a city in which everyone, from the police and criminals to civilians, children and even pets, has super-powers, colourful costumes and secret identities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19991722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19991722", "title": "Ralph Waldo Emerson Award", "text": "Ralph Waldo Emerson Award\n\nThe Ralph Waldo Emerson Award is a non-fiction literary award given by the Phi Beta Kappa society, the oldest academic society of the United States, for books that have made the most significant contributions to the humanities. Albert William Levi won the first of these awards, in 1960.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51135587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51135587", "title": "Ras Al Khaimah Tourism Development Authority", "text": "Ras Al Khaimah Tourism Development Authority\n\nThe Ras Al Khaimah Tourism Development Authority (RAK TDA) was established in May 2011 under the Government of Ras Al Khaimah. Its purpose is to develop and promote the emirate's tourism offering and infrastructure, both domestically and abroad.\n\nIn order to achieve target growth of one million visitors by the end of 2018, the authority aims establish Ras Al Khaimah as a compelling destination for leisure and business travel, create sustainable investment opportunities and enhance the quality of life for its residents. In order to achieve its goals, RAK TDA has a government mandate to license, regulate and monitor the emirate's tourism and hospitality industry.\n\nRAKTDA promotes the emirate’s tourism products and services through a wide range of activities, including research and analysis of current tourism trends and future projects; representation of the destination at travel shows; educating travel professionals on Ras Al Khaimah’s attractions through workshops, roadshows and training programmes; coordinating and implementing joint initiatives and co-marketing opportunities with industry partners; branding and marketing strategies to encourage tourism and investment into the emirate; media and consumer campaigns and promotions; and hosting sporting, cultural, trade and CSR events.\n\nHaitham Mattar is the current CEO of RAKTDA.\n\n"}
{"id": "11181082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11181082", "title": "Revisionism (fictional)", "text": "Revisionism (fictional)\n\nIn analysis of works of fiction, revisionism denotes the retelling of a conventional or established narrative with significant variations which deliberately \"revise\" the view shown in the original work. For example, the film \"Dances with Wolves\" may be regarded as a revisionist western because it portrays Native Americans sympathetically instead of as the savages of traditional westerns. \nMany original works of fantasy appear to retell fairy tales in a revisionist manner. The genre of \"Arthurian literature\" includes innumerable variations from themes of the classic tales of King Arthur. It is debatable whether any particular examples set out to create a revised view.\n\n"}
{"id": "55705521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55705521", "title": "Rise of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles", "text": "Rise of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\n\nRise of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is an American 2D-animated television series based on the fictional superhero team the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. The series debuted on September 17, 2018 after a sneak preview aired on July 20. The first 5 episodes of the series were released online the same day. The series was announced by Nickelodeon in a press release on March 2, 2017 and is initially scheduled to run for at least 26 episodes. This re-imagined series will have the Turtles go on new adventures as they seek to unlock the mystical secrets of New York City.\n\nOn July 27, 2018, Nickelodeon renewed the series for a second season consisting of 26 episodes prior to the official debut of the first season.\n\nDeep in the sewers of New York City, Leonardo, Raphael, Donatello, and Michelangelo are four mutant turtle brothers in their early teens who go on new adventures where they end up \"tapping into mystic ninja powers they never knew existed\", while \"learning\" to work together as a team and navigate the perils of the modern age and hidden realms in order to fulfill their destiny to become a team of heroes\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn March 2, 2017, \"Rise of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" was announced as a new re-imagining of the \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" franchise. Cyma Zarghami, president of the Nickelodeon Group, stated in a press release:\n\"The Turtles is a property that has reinvention in its DNA, which keeps it fresh and relevant to every new generation while satisfying the demand from its adult fans. 'Turtles' has been an incredibly important franchise for us since we reignited it five years ago, and we’re excited for the new series to take the characters in a different direction with more humor, a younger and lighter feel and all-new dimensions to explore.\"\n\nThe series logotype was revealed to public in mid-October 2017. On November 2, 2017, Nickelodeon announced the official voice actor cast for the main characters on the turtles' side. In addition to these news, voice actor Rob Paulsen, who previously voiced Raphael in the 1987–1996 TV series as well as Donatello in the 2012–2017 TV series, will now serve as the voice director for this TV series. John Cena was later cast as the villain Baron Draxum. Besides voice directing, Rob Paulsen will also be providing voice work alongside fellow voice actor Maurice LaMarche.\n\nOn February 1, 2018, major main-characters art designs were announced and revealed by Nickelodeon. This occurred during a Facebook event, which was broadcast live that day. On March 23, 2018, the first trailer for the series was released by Nickelodeon. In mid-May 2018, it was announced that each episode will consist of two 11-minute carts. Each of them will tell self-contained, standalone stories with hints of a larger plot. On June 26, 2018, the series intro theme song was released by Nickelodeon. On July 20, 2018, the show aired as a sneak peek after the 2018 Kids' Choice Sports Awards. On September 17, 2018, the show premiered on Nickelodeon.\n\nThe series premiered on Nickelodeon in the United States on September 17, 2018. The series premiered as a sneak preview on YTV in Canada on July 27 the same year and was premiered officially on September 21 that year, In the UK, The show airs on Nicktoons and Channel 5.\n\nIn April 2018, it was announced that IDW would publish a comic book based on the series, beginning in July 2018.\n\nOn February 16, 2018, the first toys based on the series were presented during the New York City Toy Fair. The first \"Rise of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" toys are expected to be released on October 1, 2018, but are starting to leak out on store shelves on September 20, 2018.\n\nIn August 2018, the American fast food chain Sonic Drive-In released a set of kids meal toys based on the series, which were available in their Wacky Pack meals.\n\nDuring the months leading up to the series' launch, Viacom and Nintendo collaborated to market \"Rise of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" via a special limited-time online multiplayer event for the 2017 video game \"Splatoon 2\", in which Inklings can participate in a Splatfest tournament, battling over which of the four brothers is the best. Donatello won overall, beating Mikey in the first round, and Raphael (who had in turn beat Leonardo) in the finals.\n"}
{"id": "48562838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48562838", "title": "Seoul International Cafe Show", "text": "Seoul International Cafe Show\n\nSeoul International Cafe Show is an annual coffee, tea, bakery and dessert event held at the COEX Convention & Exhibition Center in November in Gangnam District, Seoul, South Korea. In 2013, MOU signed between International Coffee Organization and Seoul International Cafe Show.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51846827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51846827", "title": "Strong Girl Bong-soon", "text": "Strong Girl Bong-soon\n\nStrong Girl Bong-soon () is a 2017 South Korean television series starring Park Bo-young in the title role as a woman with superhuman strength, with Park Hyung-sik and Ji Soo. It aired every Friday and Saturday on JTBC starting from February 24, 2017, to April 15, 2017.\n\nThe series was a commercial hit and became one of the highest rated Korean dramas in cable television history.\n\nDo Bong-soon (Park Bo-young) was born with superhuman strength. Her strength is hereditary and passed along only to the women in her family. Her dream is to create a video game with herself as the main character. She desperately wants to become a willowy and elegant woman, which is the ideal type of her crush, In Guk-doo (Ji Soo), a police officer. Thanks to her strength, she gets the job of a bodyguard to a rich heir Ahn Min-hyuk (Park Hyung-sik), the CEO of a gaming company, Ainsoft. Contrary to Guk-doo, Min-hyuk is an odd man who is playful, a little spoiled, has no regard for rules, and dislikes policemen. He has recently received anonymous threats, blackmails, and has even been stalked at an occasion.\n\nOne day, a series of kidnapping cases break in Dobong-dong, the district Bong-soon lives in, and she is determined to catch the culprit after her friend was targeted. With the help and training from Min-hyuk, she manages to control her strength to use it for good causes. Min-hyuk and Bong-soon find themselves and their relationship grew into something more.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe drama is written by Baek Mi-kyung who previously wrote \"Beloved Eun-dong\" and directed by Lee Hyung-min of \"Ms. Temper and Nam Jung-gi\". Filming started in October 2016 and finished on April 11, 2017.\n\nThe drama serves as a reunion between Park Hyung-sik and Yoo Jae-myung who previously worked together in the KBS2 drama \"\".\n\nIn the table below, the represent the lowest ratings and the represent the highest.\n\n\nIn November 2018, it was announced that an adaptation of the series was in development at The CW from writer Melissa Scrivner-Love, with Ronda Rousey and Ben Silverman also set to executive produce.\n\n"}
{"id": "2147251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2147251", "title": "Synthetic Genomics (company)", "text": "Synthetic Genomics (company)\n\nSynthetic Genomics Inc. (SGI), is a private company located in La Jolla, California that is focused on the field of synthetic biology. SGI designs and builds biological systems to address global sustainability problems.\n\nSynthetic biology is an interdisciplinary branch of biology and engineering, combining fields such as biotechnology, evolutionary biology, molecular biology, systems biology, biophysics, computer engineering, and genetic engineering. Synthetic Genomics uses techniques such as software engineering, bioprocessing, bioinformatics, biodiscovery, analytical chemistry, fermentation, cell optimization, and DNA synthesis to design and build biological systems. The company produces or performs research in the fields of sustainable bio-fuels, insect resistant crops, transplantable organs, targeted medicines, DNA synthesis instruments as well as a number of biological reagents.\n\nSGI mainly operates in three end markets: research, bioproduction and applied products. The research segment focuses on genomics solutions for academic and commercial research organizations. The commercial products and services include instrumentation, reagents, DNA synthesis services, and bioinformatics services and software. In 2015, the company launched the BioXP 3200 system, a fully automated benchtop instrument that produces DNA fragments from many different sources for genomic data.\n\nThe company's efforts in bio-based production are intended to improve both existing production hosts and develop entirely new synthetic production hosts with the goal of more efficient routes to bioproducts.\n\nSGI has a number of commercial as well as research and development stage programs across a variety of industries. Some of these research partnerships include:\n\nSynthetic Genomics was founded in the spring of 2005 by J. Craig Venter, Nobel Laureate Hamilton O. Smith, Juan Enriquez, and David Kiernan. J.Craig Venter (and Smith)'s previous company, Celera Genomics, was a driving force in the race to sequence the human genome.\nThe firm takes its name from the phrase synthetic genomics which is a scientific discipline of synthetic biology related to the generation of organisms artificially using genetic material.\n\nMany of SGI's collaborations have been with energy companies. In 2007, SGI worked with BP to commercialize microbial-based processes for increasing the conversion and recovery of subsurface hydrocarbons. In 2009, SGI received funding from ExxonMobil to produce biofuels on an industrial-scale using recombinant algae and other microorganisms. The company purchased an 81 acre site in Southern California's Imperial valley to produce algae fuel for their collaboration with Exxon Mobil. They also signed a collaborative agreement with New England Biolabs to Launch Gibson Assembly Master Mix Product for Synthetic and Molecular Biology Applications in 2012.\n\nIn 2010, Synthetic Genomics spun off a new subsidiary, Synthetic Genomics Vaccines Inc., to develop next generation vaccines\n\nIn 2014 SGI expanded into the field of organ transplantation with a collaborative agreement with United Therapeutics valued at $50M and brought in Oliver Fetzer as CEO.\n\nCommercialized products sold by Synthetic Genomics are sold through its subsidiary company SGI-DNA. Many of these products utilize the Gibson assembly method which was created by Dan Gibson (currently the Vice President of DNA Technology at SGI) in collaboration with the J. Craig Venter Institute in 2009.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47158459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47158459", "title": "The Chelsea Cobbler", "text": "The Chelsea Cobbler\n\nThe Chelsea Cobbler (also sometimes Chelsea Cobbler) is a British shoe brand that was established in the 1960s in Chelsea.\n\nOriginally a high-fashion brand creating bespoke (made-to-measure) shoes, it was regularly featured in catwalk shows and the fashion press throughout the 1970s, when it also had a retail presence in New York City. It was twice chosen as part of the Dress of the Year ensemble displayed at the Fashion Museum, Bath.\n\nLater the brand was absorbed into larger fashion companies. It was relaunched in 2009.\n\nThe Chelsea Cobbler's first store opened in April 1967 in Draycott Avenue, Chelsea. The founders were Richard Smith (also the shoe designer), Amanda Wilkins and George Macfarlane. Writing in \"The Times\" in 1968, Antony King-Deacon said the brand's shoes cost from 9 guineas and the founders were: \"trying to get the public to accept well-made, rather expensive shoes\". King-Deacon's comments were within an article bemoaning the poor quality of mass shoe production and describing the re-emergence of small and bespoke designers. This was in an era when the UK shoe market was dominated by lower-priced brands within the British Shoe Corporation; its stores accounted for an estimated 25 to 30 per cent of retail shoe sales in the UK at the end of the 1960s. The factory which was in Mornington Crescent was run by Spiros Mina and Antony Achilleos. Arty Achilleos was an apprentice here.He later started his own business Baboucha.\n\nA year later, Prudence Glynn featured The Chelsea Cobbler, alongside Rayne, Moya Bowler, Ravel and Magli in an article about London's best specialist shoe shops. By this stage, the brand also had a shoe shop in Sackville Street in the West End. Also in 1969, Richard Smith of Chelsea Cobbler and Glen Carr of Norvic were chosen to show off the versatility of a new leather substitute created by British company Chloride Electrical Storage Company and known as Porvair. Smith's shoes were worn with men's clothing created by hip womenswear designer Clive Evans at the launch event.\n\nIn 1969, Mirabel Walker described it as among a crop of new shoe design companies that had caught up with continental Europe's design approach, saying: \"The Chelsea Cobbler...make shoes in any colour, any style, to suit any foot\".\n\nIn 1970, The Chelsea Cobbler was chosen as part of the Dress of the Year ensemble. Its blue suede boots were worn in combination with a Bill Gibb plaid maxi skirt and a waistcoat by Kaffe Fassett. The outfit's selector was \"Vogue\" editor Beatrix Miller. Also in 1970, \"The Times\" featured its novelty canvas boots supplied with iron-on transfers, enabling people to customise their footwear by decorating the canvas in acrylic paints. The boots were priced at 12 guineas a pair. By this stage, as Prudence Glynn reported, fashionable shoppers were in the grip of boot \"fever\": \"The British, of course, love queueing and the new generation of standers in line can be seen any day in The Chelsea Cobbler or Annello and Davide preparing to wait eight to 12 weeks for a pair of boots to be made. The boot fever is such that even the Parisiennes must wait because stocks sell as fast as they are delivered\".\n\nIn 1971, the company was among the accessories designers featured in an exhibition showcasing British talent at The Louvre – at the invitation of the director of Musée des Arts Décoratifs – entitled \"L'Idee de la Forme\". Fashion designers in the mix included Christopher McDonnell, Barbara Hulanicki, Mary Quant, Jean Muir, Bill Gibb and Beatrice Bellini. That year, the company was also producing boots – wide-legged and in quilted suede with wooden heel and platform – for main branches of Russell & Bromley. In 1972, a branch opened in New York City.\n\nBy 1973, The Chelsea Cobbler had its own department within Harrods' 'Way In' fashion department. Prudence Glynn reported that the leather company Barrow Hepburn had taken a controlling interest, saying: \"I approve of Barrow Hepburn's controlling interest in Chelsea Cobbler. Richard Smith, who heads the latter, has very sensitive antennae and a very sure style. With Manolo Blahnik of Zapata, he shares the favours to top fashion designers in this country who use his shoes to complement their clothes\". Two years later, The Chelsea Cobbler was once again chosen as part of the Dress of the Year ensemble, this time for a pair of men's shoes worn with a Tommy Nutter suit and chosen by the editor of the UK edition of \"Brides\".\n\nIn 1976, it was reported that Richard Smith would be creating a shoe design for Rayne. By 1978, The Chelsea Cobbler had branches in New Bond Street, Fulham Road and King's Road, as well as concessions in Harrods and Bentalls in Kingston.\n\nIn 1979, Rayne acquired The Chelsea Cobbler business from Barrow Hepburn for £150,000.\n\nIn 1993, both The Chelsea Cobbler brand and Rayne were absorbed into Nine West, an American shoe company that would later buy Pied a Terre. By 2004, the brand was part of Shoe Studio Group. By 2008, it was under the ownership of Baugur Group. In 2009, Shoe Studio Group assets were sold to the footwear brand Dune Group.\n\nChelsea Cobbler was relaunched as a menswear brand by Dune in 2009. Standalone stores were opened in South Molton Street and Fenwick in Brent Cross Shopping Centre. In 2012, a Chelsea Cobbler men's shoes concession opened within Topman Oxford Circus. These stores however were closed by Dune.\n\n"}
{"id": "667283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=667283", "title": "The Little Golden Calf", "text": "The Little Golden Calf\n\nThe Little Golden Calf (, \"Zolotoy telyonok\") is a satirical novel by Soviet authors Ilf and Petrov, released in 1931. Its main character, Ostap Bender, also appeared in a previous novel by the authors called \"The Twelve Chairs\". The title alludes to the \"golden calf\" of the Bible; another possible rendering of it in English, less literal but better tuned to the air of the novel, would be \"The Gilded Calf\".\n\nOstap Bender is still alive (but sports a scar across his neck), after barely surviving the assassination attempt in the previous book, which he once briefly mentions as \"stupid business\". This time he hears a story about a \"clandestine millionaire\" named Alexandr Koreiko. Koreiko has made millions through various illegal enterprises by taking advantage of the widespread corruption in the New Economic Policy (NEP) period while pretending to live on an office clerk's salary of 46 rubles a month.\nKoreiko lives in \"Chernomorsk\" (literally: Black Sea city, referring to the city of Odessa) and keeps his large stash of ill-gotten money in a suitcase, waiting for the fall of the Soviet government, so that he can make use of it.\nTogether with two petty criminals Balaganov and Panikovsky, and an extremely naive and innocent car driver Kozlevich, Bender finds out about Koreiko and starts to collect all the information he can get on his business activities. Koreiko tries to flee, but Bender eventually tracks him down in Turkestan, on the newly built Turkestan–Siberia Railway. He then blackmails him into giving him a million rubles.\n\nSuddenly rich, Bender faces the problem of how to spend his money in a Communist country where there are no legal millionaires. Nothing of the life of the rich that Bender dreamt of seems possible in the Soviet Union. Frustrated, Bender even decides to anonymously donate the money to the Ministry of Finance, but changes his mind. He turns the money into jewels and gold, and tries to cross the Romanian border, only to be robbed by the Romanian border guards, leaving him only with a medal, the Order of the Golden Fleece.\n\n\nThere are two alternative endings to \"The Golden Calf\". One was written at the time the novel was originally submitted for publication to the magazine \"Thirty Days\". The other appeared later, probably due to the objections to the writers for lionizing their main character.\nAccording to the first, Ostap Bender, after obtaining his \"million\", gets to know the sorrow of a lonely man who has fulfilled his purpose, renounces the fortune, and marries his beloved, Zoya Sinitskaya.\nIn the second, he is torn. At first, he returns his \"million\" to the Commissariat of Finance, but then changes his mind. Determined to travel to Rio de Janeiro, he is caught crossing the Romanian border and sent back home, after being deprived of his fortune by Romanian border guards.\n\n“No ovations! I failed to become the Count of Monte Christo. I’ll have to retrain as an apartment manager”. (the 1932 English translation reads: \"I shall have to qualify as a janitor\")\nThe book contributed a number of catchphrases and colorful terms into the Russian language, such as \"\"Horns and Hoofs\" company (\"Рога и копыта\")\" and \"Children of Lieutenant Schmidt\", see the page for the book for more.\n\nMikhail Shveytser made a black-and-white film \"The Golden Calf\" in 1968, with Sergey Yursky as Bender. In 1993, it was adapted as \"Mechty Idiota\" (Idiot's Dreams) by director Vasili Pichul, starring pop singer Sergei Krylov as Bender. In 2006, the Russian Channel One aired the eight-part TV series \"\" starring Oleg Menshikov as Bender.\n\nThe 2009 translation into English, \"The Little Golden Calf\" by Annie O. Fisher (published by Russian Life Books) was the first unabridged, uncensored translation into English of the novel. The translation won the 2010 AATSEEL Award for Best Translation into English from any Slavic Language.\n\n"}
{"id": "7287353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7287353", "title": "The Other Log of Phileas Fogg", "text": "The Other Log of Phileas Fogg\n\nThe Other Log of Phileas Fogg is a science fiction/steampunk parallel history novel written by American author Philip José Farmer in 1973. It was originally published by DAW Books and later reprinted in 1979 by Hamlyn and again in 1982 by Tor Books. Tor has subsequently reissued the novel in 1988 and 1993.\n\nThe story takes place within the internal reality first imagined in the 1872 Jules Verne novel, \"Around the World in Eighty Days\". Farmer includes many of the story's original characters, including Phileas Fogg and his French valet, Passepartout. He establishes that all of Verne's published works take place within the same shared continuity. He includes elements of crossover fiction, incorporating the Arthur Conan Doyle characters of Sherlock Holmes and James Moriarty into his setting. These elements place Phileas Fogg and his entire supporting cast into the Wold Newton family of literary characters.\n\nIn an introduction, Farmer posits that Verne's story was not simply an article of fiction, but the chronology of actual events, which Verne later decided to adapt into a fictional setting. In the book's epilogue, Farmer playfully alludes to the notion that Phileas Fogg is still alive, and may in fact be the actual author of the story (Farmer notes that they both share the same initials, suggesting that Philip Farmer is actually an alias for Phileas Fogg).\n\nFrom Farmer's perspective, Jules Verne revealed only a small and significantly subdued portion of the actual background and exploits of Phileas Fogg. He establishes that the events surrounding \"Around the World in Eighty Days\" is actually a singular aspect of a greater conflict taking place between two immortal alien races, the Eridani and the Capellas. Farmer's story does not challenge any of the elements of the original text, but rather it adds an ambitious secondary tale taking place behind (and often in between) the scenes of Verne's material.\n\nPhileas Fogg is a mysterious British gentleman who lives with his valet Passepartout at No. 7 Saville-Row in Burlington Gardens during the latter half of the 19th century. Unbeknownst to his peers, he is also the immortal foster child of a race of humanoid aliens known as the Eridani. A man of great intellect and affluence, Fogg enters into a wager with a fellow Eridanian citing that he can circumnavigate the globe in exactly eighty days. Although witnesses feel that his claim is little more than the boasting of a rich eccentric, Fogg is in fact undertaking a secret mission on behalf of his Eridanian colleagues.\n\nAlong with Passepartout, Fogg begins a quest to find a piece of stolen alien technology – a teleportation device that had recently fallen into the hands of the Eridani's rivals, an alien race known as the Capellas. His journey brings him face to face with the infamous sea scourge Captain Nemo, a Capellan agent who is also known in British circles by his nom de guerre – James Moriarty. The two combatants match wits with one another at several key locations, including the mysterious ghost ship known as the \"Mary Celeste\".\n\nThe journey climaxes with a final battle at Fogg's home in London, mere moments before meeting the deadline required to win his world-spanning wager.\n\n\nThe novel concludes with a twenty-one page addendum written by H.W. Starr entitled \"A Submersible Subterfuge or Proof Impositive\". It originally appeared in \"Leaves from the Copper Beeches\" and published for the Sons of the Copper Beeches Scion Society of the Baker Street Irregulars; Livingston Publishing Company, Narberth, 1959.\n\nStarr exhaustively details the irreconcilable inconsistencies that take place within Verne's \"Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea\", and its companion novel, \"The Mysterious Island\" (which likewise features the character of Captain Nemo). He further contrasts the life and personality of Nemo, as originally presented by Verne, with that of James Moriarty – nemesis of Sherlock Holmes. Information contained within the addendum actually challenges Farmer's merging of both characters, citing specific comparisons of age, personality and lineage.\n\n"}
{"id": "35708956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35708956", "title": "Translation convention", "text": "Translation convention\n\nThe translation convention is a filmic and television story-telling device in which the characters within a fictional story are heard or seen speaking not their native language but instead the language of the film's audience, which is pretended to be their native languages. Sometimes, some or all of the characters speak with an accent that reflects the actual language spoken in the fictional or historical story setting.\n\nThis conceit has been used since the beginning of narrative sound film. It uses, among other things, a degree of suspension of disbelief.\n\n"}
