{"id": "37404310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37404310", "title": "2012–13 Egyptian Premier League", "text": "2012–13 Egyptian Premier League\n\nThe 2012–13 Egyptian Premier League was the fifty-sixth season of the Egyptian Premier League since its establishment in 1948.\n\nFollowing the 2013 Egyptian coup d'état on 3 July 2013, the season was suspended for security reasons, and a decision was reached to cancel the remainder of the season. Thus, the championship play-off and the relegation play-off were not played.\n\nA total of 64 clubs have played in the Egyptian Premier League from its inception in 1948–49 up to and including the 2012–13 season. But only two clubs have been members of the Egyptian Premier League for every season since its inception. They are Al Ahly and Zamalek. Most of this season's matches and the 2011–12 season have been postponed, because of the Egyptian revolution.\n\nThe following 18 clubs are competing in the Egyptian Premier League during the 2012–13 season.\n"}
{"id": "41789698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41789698", "title": "2014 United Nations Climate Change Conference", "text": "2014 United Nations Climate Change Conference\n\nThe United Nations Climate Change Conference, COP20 or CMP10 was held in Lima, Peru, from December 1 to 12, 2014. This was the 20th yearly session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 20) to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the 10th session of the Meeting of the Parties (CMP 10) to the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. The conference delegates held negotiations towards a global climate agreement.\n\nWhile this was conference in the annual series, more attention is directed towards the 2015 conference in Paris. A statement made by United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon forecast the climate change summit to be held in September 2014, but made no organizational reference to the 2014 conference in Lima or the Paris conference.\n\nThe overarching goal of the conference was to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) to limit the global temperature increase to 2 degrees Celsius above current levels.\n\nThe EU aims a legally binding 40% drop in emissions by 2030 against carbon output in 1990 as baseline. \n\nBefore the Conference of Climate Change, oil producing countries increased the oil production and oil became cheaper than it had been for years. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "48638932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48638932", "title": "2015 Russian Sukhoi Su-24 shootdown", "text": "2015 Russian Sukhoi Su-24 shootdown\n\nA Turkish Air Force F-16 fighter jet shot down a Russian Sukhoi Su-24M attack aircraft near the Syria–Turkey border on 24 November 2015. According to Turkey, the aircraft—whose nationality was unknown at the time—was fired upon while in Turkish airspace because it violated the border up to a depth of for about 17 seconds after being warned to change its heading 10 times over a period of five minutes before entering the airspace. The Russia Defence Ministry denied the aircraft ever left Syrian airspace, counter-claiming that their satellite data showed that the Sukhoi was about inside Syrian airspace when it was shot down. The U.S. State Department said that the U.S. independently confirmed that the aircraft's flight path violated Turkish territory, and that the Turks gave multiple warnings to the pilot, to which they received no response and released audio recordings of the warnings they had broadcast. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan pointed out that Turkey had the right to defend its airspace. Russian president Vladimir Putin said that the U.S. knew the flight path of the Russian jet and should have informed Turkey; two U.S. officials said that Russia did not inform the U.S. military of its jet's flight plan.\n\nThe Russian pilot and weapon systems officer both ejected from the aircraft. The weapon systems officer was rescued; the pilot was shot and killed by Syrian rebel ground fire while descending by parachute. A Russian naval infantryman from the search and rescue team launched to retrieve the two airmen was also killed when a rescue helicopter was targeted by the rebels.\n\nThe shooting down of the Sukhoi Su-24M was the first destruction of a Russian or Soviet Air Forces warplane by a NATO member state since the attack on the Sui-ho Dam (during the Korean War). Reactions to the incident included denunciation from Russia and an attempt to defuse the situation by NATO afterwards. Russia deployed the guided missile cruiser \"Moskva\" armed with S-300F (SA-N-6 Grumble) long-range SAM missiles off the Syrian coast near Latakia and S-400 (SA-21 Growler) mobile SAM systems to Khmeimim airbase. In response, the Turkish Armed Forces deployed the KORAL land-based radar electronic support system in Hatay Province along the Turkish–Syrian border.\n\nAfter the 2012 shooting down of a Turkish jet by Syrian forces, Turkish Prime Minister Erdoğan protested, saying that brief incursions should not trigger an attack, pointing out that Turkey did not shoot down Syrian helicopters that strayed into Turkish airspace. Nevertheless, as a response to the event he announced that Turkey changed its rules of engagement, and said it would start to consider all \"military elements\" approaching from Syria an enemy threat and would act accordingly. Subsequently, Turkey shot down a Syrian Mi-17 helicopter in September 2013 and a MiG-23 warplane in March 2014.\n\nRussia is one of several countries directly involved in the Syrian conflict. On 30 September 2015, Russia began its air campaign against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and other anti-government forces.\n\nIn early October, Turkey and NATO protested against what they saw as Russia's deliberate violations of Turkish airspace. The Russian Defence Ministry admitted that a Russian Su-30 aircraft had entered Turkish airspace \"for a few seconds\" because of bad weather, adding that measures had been taken to prevent a repeat of such incidents, however Turkish radar had tracked the aircraft straying into Turkish airspace for up to lasting \"several minutes\". From 3–15 October, five discussions between senior ranking officials from Turkey and Russia occurred, concerning Turkish rules of engagement and Russian violations of Turkish airspace. On 6 November 2015, six U.S. Air Force F-15C fighters were deployed by US European Command from the 48th Fighter Wing at their Lakenheath base in Britain to Incirlik Air Base as part of Operation Inherent Resolve. The Government of Turkey requested these to secure the sovereignty of Turkish airspace because of earlier repeated Russian intrusions into Turkish airspace.\n\nOn 19 November, Russian Ambassador to Turkey Andrei Karlov and the Russian military attaché Colonel Andrei Victorovich Dovger were summoned by Turkey. Russia, which was criticised by Turkey for having conducted operations near the Turkish border, a region inhabited by Syrian Turkmen and largely free of ISIL (though al-Nusra Front, the al-Qaeda affiliate in Syria, is present in the region), was notified that Turkey's rules of engagement were in place and it would react to any violations of its border security. Turkey also warned Russia that it would not be indifferent to \"attacks targeting the life security of Turkmen\" in the Bayırbucak area. The preceding week Turkey had called for the UN Security Council to discuss attacks against Turkish-backed Turkmens. Approximately 1,700 people had fled the area in the previous three days due to battles between Syrian government forces and anti-government Syrian Turkmen and al-Nusra Front fighters. Russia has bombed the area near the Turkish border to support Syrian government forces. Syrian Turkmen formed their own armed brigades called Syrian Turkmen Brigades in opposition to the Syrian government of President Bashar al-Assad, loosely affiliated with other rebels such as the Free Syrian Army. The Turkmen brigades also cooperate with al-Qaeda's Syrian affiliate the al-Nusra Front and with the Salafi coalition known as Ahrar al-Sham. In Latakia the Turkish-supported rebels formed the Jabal al-Turkman Brigade.\n\nOn 24 November 2015 at 9:24 am, as it was returning to Khmeimim airbase, a Russian Sukhoi Su-24 aircraft with tail number 83 was shot down near the Syrian–Turkish border by a AIM-9X Sidewinder missile from a patrolling Turkish Air Force F-16 fighter jet. \"The Economist\" reported that the two Su-24s were on their way to strike Syrian Turkmen targets. Syrian government forces supported by the Shiite militias and the Russian Air Force were fighting against Syrian Turkmen brigades, Army of Conquest and al-Nusra Front fighters.\n\nEarly reports from Russian news agencies citing the Russian Defence Ministry, indicated that the aircraft had been downed by a ground-based strike from Syrian Turkmen rebels, but they later confirmed Turkish reports that the aircraft had been shot down by Turkish fighter jets. The Turkish military released a graphic of the Russian aircraft's flight pattern, which shows it crossing the southern tip of Hatay Province before being shot down and crashing near Turkmen Mountain. Russia then countered Turkey's radar trace analysis by publishing a different flight map showing no airspace violation. Three days later, on 27 November, Russia published another map.\n\nAccording to Turkey's statement to the UN Security Council, two aircraft, whose nationalities were unknown at the time, violated Turkish airspace up to a depth of for about 17 seconds. According to Turkish officials, the aircraft were given 10 warnings within the span of 5 minutes, by operators at a ground-controlled interception station, to change their course. Turkey later released the audio recording (\"The unknown air traffic position to Humaymim 020 radial 26 miles. This is Turkish Air Force speaking on Guard. You are approaching Turkish airspace, change your heading south immediately\"). The Russians claim there were no warnings. Analysts have noted that Turkey's warnings were issued on a dedicated mutually-agreed radio channel, which was the international Guard (emergency) channel (243.0 MHz), but the R-862M radio fitted to the Su-24M is not able to monitor this channel without optional equipment, which may not have been installed. According to Turkey, one aircraft left Turkish national airspace after violating it; the other aircraft was fired upon by Turkish F-16s patrolling the area and crashed into Syrian territory after being hit in Turkish airspace. Based on its heat signature, an anonymous American official stated that the jet was hit in Syrian airspace after a short incursion into Turkey. On 30 November, US Ambassador to NATO Douglas Lute stated that the data supported the Turkish version of events.\n\nAccording to the Russian Defence Ministry, the Su-24 was downed from an altitude of within one kilometre of the Turkish border and in Syrian airspace, while returning to the Khmeimim airbase in Syria. Russia has maintained that the aircraft never left Syrian territory. The Russian Defence Ministry confirmed the aircraft was an Su-24 but said that it had proof the jet was within Syrian airspace. According to the commander-in-chief of the Russian Aerospace Forces, Viktor Bondarev, a Turkish F-16 entered Syria's airspace for 40 seconds and flew inside Syrian territory, but the Russian warplane did not violate the Turkish border.\n\nBoth pilots ejected after the aircraft was hit. Initially, the deputy commander of a Turkmen Syrian opposition rebel brigade in Syria, Alparslan Çelik (a Turkish citizen and member of the Grey Wolves ultra-nationalist group ), claimed his forces had shot dead the two pilots as they descended with parachutes, and in a film a person could be heard in the background repeatedly shouting \"Stop shooting!\" in Turkish as the parachutists descended. A Turkish official reported that he believed both were alive. It was also reported that one of the pilots had been captured by the Turkmen fighters and a video was circulated which allegedly showed the pilot's body.\n\nRussia's military general staff spokesman Lieutenant General Sergei Rudskoi confirmed that one pilot, Lieutenant Colonel Oleg Anatolyevich Peshkov, was killed by ground fire; the other pilot, who was the navigator, was rescued.\n\nThe shooting of an ejecting aircraft pilot is in contravention of Article 42 of the 1977 additional protocol of the Geneva Convention.\n\nThe pilot of the Su-24, Oleg Peshkov, 45, was posthumously awarded the Hero of the Russian Federation, the country's highest military honour; the surviving weapon systems officer, Konstantin Murakhtin, and the killed rescuer, Alexander Pozynich, 29, received the Order of Courage. On 2 December Peshkov was buried with full military honours in the Alley of Heroes of the cemetery in Lipetsk with about 10,000 people attending.\n\nThe Turkish state-owned Anadolu Agency showed video footage of the aircraft crashing and the two pilots parachuting down. Russian helicopters conducted low-altitude combat search and rescue flights in the area to look for the pilot.\n\nTwo Mil Mi-8 helicopters were sent to find and recover the pilots from the crash site. One of the helicopters was damaged by small-arms fire from Syrian Turkmen Brigade militants, resulting in the death of a naval infantryman, and was forced to make an emergency landing. All the surviving crew of the helicopter were later rescued and evacuated. The Free Syrian Army's 1st Coastal Division claimed that they subsequently destroyed the abandoned helicopter using a US-made BGM-71 TOW missile.\n\nAs the Russian armed forces began planning an operation to extract the pilot, Iranian General Qasem Soleimani contacted them and proposed a joint rescue operation under his supervision. The rescue team which General Soleimani put forth consisted of eight Hezbollah special forces personnel and 18 Syrian commandos, who were trained by Iran and had firsthand knowledge of the geography of the area, with Russia providing transport, logistical support, air cover and satellite intelligence. One of the pilots, Oleg Peshkov, had been wounded and then killed by rebels after parachuting from the plane, while the other one, Konstantin Murahtin, escaped and was rescued. During the rescue mission, Russian Marine, Alexandr Pozynich, has been fatally wounded. The rescue team returned to base safely and handed over the pilot to the Syrian Army. Vladimir Putin was reportedly closely following the operation. The body of the dead pilot was flown to Turkey and Russian officials in Ankara arranged for its repatriation to Moscow.\n\nOn 25 November, the foreign ministers of Russia and Turkey spoke for an hour by telephone, and both governments stated that day that they would not initiate a war as a result of the incident. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told journalists that his country would \"seriously reevaluate\" its relationship with Turkey. The Russian Defence Ministry broke off military contacts with the Turkish Armed Forces and Russian defence officials said that future airstrikes in Syria would be escorted by fighters. According to the Russian Minister of Defence Sergey Shoygu, Russia will deploy S-400 surface-to-air missile systems to Khmeimim airbase in Syria, where the Russian Aerospace Forces group is stationed.\n\nA few hours after the incident, Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke from Sochi, where he was meeting with King Abdullah II of Jordan, saying that it was a \"stab in the back by terrorist accomplices,\" that Russia would not put up with attacks like this one and that Russia–Turkey relations would be affected. Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov was due to visit Turkey the next day, and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan had scheduled a visit to Russia later in the year. Lavrov cancelled his trip after the incident. Lieutenant General Sergey Rudskoi said that forces threatening Russia would be targeted. Protesters pelted the Turkish embassy in Russia with eggs before police cleared the area. On 26 November, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev announced broad economic sanctions against Turkey that would affect their joint investment projects, including the possible shelving of a multibillion-dollar deal to build Turkish Stream gas pipeline through Turkey. Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov said that Turkey would regret its actions. Putin accused Turkey of helping ISIL in the illegal oil trade, saying that funds from the sale of oil were used to support terrorists. The Russian Air Force had recently started bombing the oil tankers en route to other countries, including Turkey, and the infrastructure for processing and storage of crude oil. Putin later claimed that the Turkish shoot-down was an \"ambush\" that had been prepared in advance. A bill making denial of the Armenian Genocide illegal has been introduced in the Russian State Duma.\n\nSyrian Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi said the shooting would be added to the criminal record of insurgent groups fighting in the country and of those countries that were financing and arming them; he mentioned Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Qatar as the strongest such backers.\n\nErdoğan pointed out that Turkey had the right to defend its airspace. He said worse incidents have not taken place in the past because of Turkey's restraint. He also stressed that Turkey's actions were fully in line with the new rules of engagement adopted after Syria shot down a Turkish jet in 2012. Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu offered condolences and said the Turkish pilots did not know it was a Russian plane. Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu defended the action saying Turkey has the right to defend itself against border violations, but that it did not amount to an aggression against any foreign territory and the country called for NATO to hold an extraordinary meeting later in the day. He further called for working towards solving the crisis in Syria. Davutoğlu also said that attacks on Turkmen could not be legitimised under the justification of attacking ISIL. Turkey's Ambassador to the United States, Serdar Kilic, asked for Turkey's warnings to be taken seriously. Davutoglu said Turkey would cooperate but did not offer an apology. Dozens of protesters were reported outside the Russian consulate in Istanbul demonstrating against Russian military operations in the Turkmen-populated areas of Syria. Russian President Putin issued a decree within hours of Turkey's statement which placed a ban on trade of some goods, forbade extensions of labour contracts for Turks working in Russia as of 1 January 2016, ended chartered flights from Russia to Turkey, disallowed Russian tourism companies from selling holiday packages with a stay in Turkey, and called for ending visa-free travel between Russia and Turkey, while ordering tighter control over Turkish air carriers in Russia, using security as a justification.\n\nRussia started bombarding rebels – including Turkmen insurgents – in Latakia, ignoring demands made by Turkey over the previous week to end its military operations close to the Turkish border. A Turkmen commander said missiles fired from Russian warships in the Mediterranean were also hitting the area. Russian Defence Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said that as soon as the pilot was rescued the groups responsible for the attack had been killed by Russian bombing and Syrian government rocket artillery. A Turkish supply convoy, reportedly carrying small arms, machine-guns and ammunition, was bombed by what is believed to have been Russian airstrikes in the northwestern town of Azaz, in north-western Syria. Claimed as an aid convoy by the Turks, no organization has as yet confirmed that the convoy belonged to them. At least seven people died and ten people were injured as around 20 trucks went up in flames. Turkish state-run Anadolu Agency accused Russia of supporting the Kurdish YPG, PYD and Syrian Democratic Forces.\n\nOn 25 November – the day after the jet was shot down, a Russian lawmaker, Sergei Mironov, introduced a bill to the Russian parliament that would criminalize the denial of the Armenian Genocide, a political move that Turkey has strongly opposed when countries like France and Greece adopted similar laws.\n\nOn 26 November, Russia deployed the guided missile cruiser \"Moskva\" armed with S-300F (SA-N-6 Grumble) long-range SAM missiles positioned off Latakia, off the Syrian coast and S-400 (SA-21 Growler) mobile SAM systems to Khmeimim airbase. The Russian military warned it would shoot down any aerial target that posed a threat to its planes.\n\nOn 26 November, the Russian Ministry of Defence broke off contact with the Turkish military. All existing channels of communication between the two sides have been shut down, the ministry said.\n\nOn 27 November, Russia announced that it had also suspended its participation in joint Black Sea naval drills indefinitely. The Russian navy's envoy in charge of coordinating the actions of Russia's Black Sea Fleet with the Turkish navy has reportedly been recalled. On 27 November, Russian Foreign minister Sergey Lavrov announced that Moscow will halt the existing visa-free regime starting on 1 January, saying that Turkey has become a conduit for terrorists and has been reluctant to share information with Moscow about Russian citizens accused of involvement in terrorist activities. On 28 November, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a decree imposing economic sanctions against Turkey. The decree, which came into force immediately, banned charter flights from Russia to Turkey, prevented tour firms selling holidays there, and outlawed some Turkish imports, and halted or curbed the economic activities of Turkish firms and nationals. On 2 December, Russian Deputy Defence Minister Anatoly Antonov said in a media briefing with foreign journalists that Turkey was the biggest buyer of \"stolen\" oil from Syria and Iraq and accused the family of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of being directly involved in the trade of petroleum with the Islamic State group. On 3 December, Putin referred to the incident during his annual state of the nation speech.\n\nAt his annual press conference in 17 December 2015, Vladimir Putin used boorish language when referring to Turkish government. Asked about a third-party involvement in the current Russian-Turkish relations deteriorated by the shootdown of Russian Su-24, Putin remarked \"…if someone in the Turkish government decided to lick the Americans in a certain place, well I don`t know then, was that the right decision or not?\"\n\nOn 23 December, Selahattin Demirtaş, co-leader of Turkey's pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), criticized Ankara's stance regarding a Russian jet shot down by Turkey.\n\nOn 27 December, the Turkish newspaper \"Hurriyet\" published an interview with Alparslan Çelik who spoke about the downing. TASS reported that the Turkish militant had fought in Syria for two years. The Russian foreign ministry expressed surprise and indignation that a major Turkish newspaper had given floor to the \"murderer and terrorist... filled with hatred towards Russia and the Russian people.\" On 30 December, the Russian foreign ministry called for Ankara to arrest Çelik.\n\nIn June 2016, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan sent a letter to Russian President Vladimir Putin expressing sympathy and 'deep condolences' to the family of the victims. An investigation was also reopened into the suspected Turkish military personnel involved in the incident. Russian media interpreted the contents of the letter as an apology for downed aircraft.\nThree weeks later (in the meantime, there had been a coup d'état attempt against him), Erdogan announced in an interview that the two Turkish pilots who downed Russian aircraft were arrested on suspicion that they have links to the Gülen movement. And that a court should find out \"the truth\".\n\n\n\nThe MICEX and RTS Index, and Borsa Istanbul fell over 1%. The Turkish lira also dropped following news of the shootdown, as did broader European stock markets.\n\n"}
{"id": "14996646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14996646", "title": "3548 Eurybates", "text": "3548 Eurybates\n\n3548 Eurybates ( ), provisional designation \"\", is a carbonaceous Jupiter trojan from the Greek camp and the parent body of the Eurybates family, approximately in diameter. It is a target to be visited by the \"Lucy\" mission in August 2027. Discovered during the second Palomar–Leiden Trojan survey in 1973, it was later named after Eurybates from Greek mythology. The C/P-type asteroid belongs to the 60 largest Jupiter trojans and has a rotation period of 8.7 hours.\n\n\"Eurybates\" was discovered on 19 September 1973, by Dutch astronomers Ingrid and Cornelis van Houten at Leiden, on photographic plates taken by Tom Gehrels at the Palomar Observatory in California, United States. In 1951, it was first observed as \"\" at the Goethe Link Observatory, extending the asteroid's observation arc by 22 years prior to its official discovery observation at Palomar. Since the discovery of 588 Achilles by Max Wolf in 1906, more than 7000 Jupiter trojans, with nearly 4600 bodies in the Greek camp, have already been discovered.\n\nWhile the discovery date aligns with the second Palomar–Leiden Trojan survey, \"Eurybates\" has not received a prefixed survey designation, which was assigned for the discoveries made by the fruitful collaboration between the Palomar and Leiden observatories in the 1960s and 1970s. Gehrels used Palomar's Samuel Oschin telescope (also known as the 48-inch Schmidt Telescope), and shipped the photographic plates to Ingrid and Cornelis van Houten at Leiden Observatory where astrometry was carried out. The trio are credited with the discovery of .\n\n\"Eurybates\" is a dark Jovian asteroid orbiting in the leading Greek camp at Jupiter's Lagrangian point, 60° ahead of the Gas Giant's orbit in a 1:1 resonance \"(see Trojans in astronomy)\". It orbits the Sun at a distance of 4.7–5.7 AU once every 11 years and 10 months (4,321 days; semi-major axis of 5.19 AU). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.09 and an inclination of 8° with respect to the ecliptic.\n\n\"Eurybates\" is the parent body of the small Eurybates family (), with 218 known members of carbonaceous and/or primitive composition. Only a few families have been identified among the Jovian asteroids; four of them in the Greek camp. This potentially collisional family was first characterized by Jakub Rozehnal and Miroslav Brož in 2011, and further described in 2014. Members of this family include the Jupiter trojans , 8060 Anius, 9818 Eurymachos, , and 360072 Alcimedon.\n\n\"Eurybates\" has been characterized as a carbonaceous C-type asteroid by both the \"Lucy\" mission team and Brian Warner's \"Lightcurve Data Base\". The overall spectral type for members of the Eurybates family is that of a C- and P-type.\n\nIn May 1992, a rotational lightcurve of \"Eurybates\" was obtained from photometric observations by Stefano Mottola and Maria Gonano–Beurer using the now decommissioned ESO 1-metre telescope at La Silla Observatory in northern Chile. Lightcurve analysis gave a rotation period of 8.711 hours with a brightness variation of 0.20 magnitude (). In October 2010, photometric observations by American astronomer Robert Stephens at the Goat Mountain Astronomical Research Station in California gave a concurring period of 8.73 hours and an amplitude of 0.19 magnitude ().\n\n\"Eurybates\" has two determined spin axes at (143.0°, −45.0°) and/or (325.0°, –61.0°) in ecliptic coordinates (λ, β).\n\nAccording to the surveys carried out by the Infrared Astronomical Satellite IRAS, the Japanese Akari satellite, and NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer with its subsequent NEOWISE mission, \"Eurybates\" measures between 63.89 and 72.14 kilometers in diameter and its surface has an albedo between 0.052 and 0.060. The \"Collaborative Asteroid Lightcurve Link\" agrees with IRAS, and derives an albedo of 0.0491 and a diameter of 72.08 kilometers with an absolute magnitude of 9.6.\n\nThis minor planet was named after Eurybates, the Ancient hero from Greek mythology, who was a herald for the Greek armies during the Trojan War. The official naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 28 April 1991 ().\n\n\"Eurybates\" is planned to be visited by the \"Lucy\" spacecraft which will launch in 2021. The fly by is scheduled for 12 August 2027, and will approach the asteroid to a distance of 1000 kilometers at a velocity of 5.8 kilometers per second and a solar phase angle of 81°. The mission's six targets in chronological order with their flyby dates are:\n\n"}
{"id": "42022825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42022825", "title": "Asian V8 Championship Series", "text": "Asian V8 Championship Series\n\nThe Asian V8 Championship Series (AV8C) was a motorsports competition for stock car race drivers from the Asia-Pacific. The only edition of the racing series took place in 2014, over two events at the Clark International Speedway in Pampanga and the Batangas Racing Circuit in Batangas, both in the Philippines. The tournament was organized by the Philippine Formula Autosports Foundation and was intended to set the Philippines as a hub for NASCAR racing in Asia. The overall winner of the tournament will compete at the NASCAR Whelen Series and in the K&N Pro NASCAR Series. \n"}
{"id": "230351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230351", "title": "Ayub Khan (President of Pakistan)", "text": "Ayub Khan (President of Pakistan)\n\nMohammad Ayub Khan (; 14 May 1907 – 19 April 1974), , was a Pakistani military dictator and the second President of Pakistan who forcibly assumed the presidency from first President through coup in 1958, the first successful coup d'état of the country. The popular demonstrations and labour strikes which were supported by the protests in East Pakistan ultimately led to his forced resignation in 1969.\n\nTrained at the British Royal Military College, Ayub Khan fought in the World War II as a Colonel in the British Indian Army before deciding to transfer to join the Pakistan Army as an aftermath of partition of British India in 1947. His command assignment included his role as chief of staff of Eastern Command in East-Bengal and elevated as the first native commander-in-chief of Pakistan Army in 1951 by then-Prime Minister Liaquat Ali Khan in a controversial promotion over several senior officers. From 1953–58, he served in the civilian government as Defence and Home Minister and supported Iskander Mirza's decision to impose martial law against Prime Minister Feroze Khan's administration in 1958. Two weeks later, he took over the presidency from Mirza after the meltdown of civil-military relations between the military and the civilian President.\n\nAfter appointing General Musa Khan as an army chief in 1958, the policy inclination towards the alliance with the United States was pursued that saw the allowance of American access to facilities inside Pakistan, most notably the airbase outside of Peshawar, from which spy missions over the Soviet Union were launched. Relations with neighboring China were strengthened but deteriorated with Soviet Union in 1962, and with India in 1965. His presidency saw the war with India in 1965 which ended with Soviet Union facilitating the Tashkent Declaration between two nations. At home front, the policy of privatisation and industrialization was introduced that made the country's economy as Asia's fastest-growing economies. During his tenure, several infrastructure programs were built that consisted the completion of hydroelectric stations, dams and reservoirs, as well as prioritizing the space program but reducing the nuclear deterrence.\n\nIn 1965, Ayub Khan entered in a presidential race as PML candidate to counter the popular and famed non-partisan Fatima Jinnah and controversially reelected for the second term. He was faced with allegations of widespread intentional vote riggings, authorized political murders in Karachi, and the politics over the unpopular peace treaty with India which many Pakistanis considered an embarrassing compromise. In 1967, he was widely disapproved when the demonstrations across the country were led by Zulfikar Ali Bhutto over the price hikes of food consumer products and, dramatically fell amid the popular uprising in East led by Mujibur Rahman in 1969. Forced to resign to avoid further protests while inviting army chief Yahya Khan to impose martial law for the second time, he fought a brief illness and died in 1974.\n\nHis legacy remains mixed; he is credited with an ostensible economic prosperity and what supporters dub the \"decade of development\", but is criticized for beginning the first of the intelligence agencies' incursions into the national politics, for concentrating corrupt wealth in a few hands, and segregated policies that later led to the breaking-up of nation's unity that resulted in the creation of Bangladesh.\n\nAyub Khan was born on 14 May 1907 in Rehana, a village in Haripur District in Hazara region of then North-West Frontier Province (now Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan). He hailed from the Tareen tribe of ethnic Pashtuns settled in Hazara region.\n\nHe was the first child of the second wife of Mir Dad, a Risaldar-Major (a regimental JCO which was then known as VCO) in the 9th Hodson's Horse which was a cavalry regiment of the British Indian Army. For his basic education, he was enrolled in a school in Sarai Saleh, which was about 4 miles from his village. He used to go to school on a mule's back and was shifted to a school in Haripur, where he started living with his grandmother.\n\nHe went on to study at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) and while pursuing his college education, he was accepted into the Royal Military Academy at Sandhurst by the recommendation of General Andrew Skeen; he did not complete his degree and departed for Great Britain. Ayub Khan was fluent in Urdu, English and his regional Hindko dialect as well as Pashto.\n\nAccording to some accounts, Ayub Khan's performance at the Sandhurst Military Academy in the United Kingdom was good, earning him awards and scholarships. He was commissioned as a 2nd Lt. on 2 February 1928 in the 1/14th Punjab Regiment (1st Battalion of the 14th Punjab Regiment) of the British Indian Army — it is now known as the 5th battalion of the Punjab Regiment of Pakistan Army. Amongst those who passed out with him was the future chief of army staff of the Indian Army, General J. N. Chaudhri who served as chief when Ayub was the President of Pakistan. After the standard probationary period of service in the British Army, he was appointed to the British Indian Army on 10 April 1929, joining the 1/14th Punjab Regiment \"Sherdils\", now known as 5th Punjab Regiment.\n\nHe was promoted to Lieutenant on 2 May 1930 and to Captain on 2 February 1937. During World War II, he was promoted to the temporary rank of Lieutenant-Colonel in 1942 and was posted in Burma to participate in first phase of Burma Front in 1942–43. He was promoted to the permanent rank of Major on 2 February 1945. Later that year, he was promoted to temporary Colonel and assumed the command of his own regiment in which he was commissioned to direct operations on second phase of Burma Front; however he was soon suspended without pay from that command temporarily for visible cowardice under fire.\n\nIn 1946, he was posted back to British India and was stationed in the North-West Frontier Province. In 1947, he was promoted to a one-star rank, Brigadier, and commanded a Brigade in mountainous South Waziristan. When the United Kingdom announced the partition British India into India and Pakistan, he was one of the most senior serving officers in the British Indian Army who decided to opt for Pakistan in 1947. At the time of his joining, the Indian Army sent the military seniority list to Pakistan's Ministry of Defence (MoD) where he was the 10th ranking officer in terms of seniority with Service No. PA-010.\n\nIn the early part of 1948, he was given the command of the 14th Infantry Division as its GOC, (still ranked Brigadier) stationed in Dacca, East-Pakistan. In 1949, he was appointed as army commander of Eastern Command and decorated with the Hilal-i-Jurat (HJ) by Prime Minister Liaquat Ali Khan for non-combatant service and called back to Army GHQ as an adjutant-general on November of same year.\n\nLieutenant General Sir Douglas Gracey relinquished the command of the Pakistan Army on 23 January 1951, under pressure of calls for \"nationalisation\" of the army. The Pakistan government already called for appointing native commanders-in-chief of army, air force, navy and dismissed deputation appointments from the British military. The Army GHQ sent the nomination papers to Prime Minister's Secretariat for the appointment of commander-in-chief. There were four-senior officers in the race: Major-General Akbar Khan, Major-General Iftikhar Khan, Major-General Ishfakul Majid, and Major-General N.A.M. Raza, among these officers Akbar was the senior-most as he was commissioned in 1920.\n\nInitially, it was Gen. Iftikhar Khan (commissioned in 1929) who was selected to be appointed as first native commander-in-chief of the army, but he died in an airplane crash en route to take command after finishing the senior staff officers' course in the United Kingdom. All three remaining generals were bypassed including the recommended senior-most Major-General Akbar Khan and Major-General Ishfakul Majid (commissioned in 1924).\n\nThe Defence Secretary Iskandar Mirza, at that time, played a crucial role in lobbying for the army post selection as presenting with convincing arguments to Prime Minister Ali Khan to promote the junior-most Major-General Ayub Khan (commissioned in 1928, service number: PA-010) to the post despite the fact that his name was not included in the nomination list. Ayub's papers of promotion were controversially approved and he was appointed as the first native Commander in Chief of Pakistan Army with a promotion to four-star rank, a full general, on 17 January 1951 by Prime Minister Ali Khan.\n\nAyub's becoming the army chief marked a change in the military tradition of preferring native Pakistanis; it ended the transitional role of British military officers. Although the Pakistani government announced the appointment of navy's native commander in chief in 1951, it was Ayub Khan who helped Vice-Admiral M.S. Choudhri to be appointed as first native navy's commander in chief, also in 1953. The events surrounding Ayub's appointment set the precedent for a native general being promoted out of turn, ostensibly because he was the least ambitious of the generals in the line of promotion and the most loyal to civil government at that time. Ayub, alongside Admiral Choudhri, cancelled and disbanded the British military tradition in the navy and the army when the U.S. military's advisers were dispatched to the Pakistani military in 1955–57. British military traditions were only kept in the air force due to a British commander and major staff consisting of Royal Air Force officers.\n\nIn 1953, Ayub went on his first foreign visit Turkey as an army c-in-c, and was said to be impressed with Turkish military tradition; he met only with the Turkish Defence minister during his visit. Thereafter, he went to the United States and visited the US State Department and Pentagon to lobby for forging military relations. He termed this visit as \"medical visit\" but made a strong plea for military aid which was not considered due to India's opposition.\n\nThree months before the end of his tenure as commander-in-chief of the army, Ayub Khan deposed his mentor, Iskandar Mirza, Pakistan's president, in a military coup – after Mirza had declared martial law and made Ayub Khan the chief martial law administrator.\n\nIn 1954, Prime Minister Muhammad Ali Bogra's relations with the military and Governor-General Ghulam Muhammad deteriorated on issues of the economy. Pressure had been built up to reconstruct the Cabinet which eventually witnessed with Lieutenant-General Ayub Khan becoming the Defence Minister and Iskander Mirza as Home Minister in 1954.\n\nOn 24 February 1954, he signed the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO) and, together with Mirza, their role in the national politics began to grow. In 1954, the work on controversial program, the One Unit, began which would integrate the four provinces into one united political entity, known as West-Pakistan, as a counterbalance to East-Pakistan. Despite opposition from the ethnic parties and public in general, the program was launched by Prime Minister Bogra. In 1955, Prime Minister Bogra was dismissed by Governor-General Muhammad and he was succeeded by the new Prime Minister Muhammad Ali as the Defence Minister.\n\nAs an after of general elections in 1954 in East, the Awami League formed the government in East while the West was governed by the PML, but the PML government collapse soon after in West in 1956. He was called on to join the Cabinet as Defence Minister by Prime Minister H.S. Suhrawardy and maintained closer relations with Iskander Mirza who now had become the first President of the country after the successful promulgation of Constitution in 1956. In 1957, President Mirza renewed his extension to serve as an army chief of staff.\n\nAround this time, the MoD led by General Ayub Khan began to see the serious interservice rivalry between the Army GHQ staff and the Navy NHQ staff. Commander in Chief of Navy Vice-Admiral M. S. Choudri and his NHQ staff had been fighting with the Finance ministry and the MoD over the issues of rearmament and contingency plans. Meanwhile, he continued to serve with Prime Minister Chundrigar and Feroz Noon's government as Defence Minister, and his resentment towards civilian politicians grew.\n\nIn 1958, he chaired the Joint Chiefs of Staff meeting where he became involved with heated discussion with Admiral M. S. Choudri. He reportedly complained against Admiral Choudri to President Mirza and criticized Admiral Choudri for \"neither having the brain, imagination or depth of thought to understand such (defence) problems nor the vision or the ability to make any contribution\". The impasse was broken with Admiral Choudhri resigning from the Navy in protest as result of having differences with Navy's plans of expansion and modernization. In 1958, Vice-Admiral Afzal Rahman Khan, who was known to be confident of General Ayub Khan, was appointed as naval chief by President Mirza.\n\nIn a threat of being dismissed, Prime Minister H.S. Suhrawardy resigned and Prime Minister I.I. Chundiragar took over the post but in mere two months he too tendered resignation after losing confidence in running the government. The Constituent Assembly elected Sir Feroz Noon for the post of the Prime Minister who had much larger support from the Western Republican Party and Eastern Awami League, and Krishak Sramik.\n\nThis new alliance nearly threatened President Iskander Mirza because Suhrawardy and Feroz were now initially campaigning to become Prime Minister and President in the next general elections to be held. The conservative Pakistan Muslim League, led under its President A.Q. Khan, was also gaining momentum in West Pakistan and threatened for the \"Dharna\" movement. These events were against President Mirza hence he was willing to dissolve even Pakistan's One Unit for his advantage.\n\nOn the midnight of 7 and 8 October 1958, President Mirza ordered a mass mobilization of Pakistan Armed Forces and abrogated the Constitution after sending a letter to Prime Minister Feroze and the Constituent Assembly about the coup d'état. Most of the politicians became only aware of coup the next morning; only the U.S. Ambassador James Langley was kept aware of the political development in the country. President Mirza appointed General Ayub as its chief martial law administrator (CMLA) to enforce the martial law in both exclave–West and East Pakistan. However, President Mirza soon realized his mistake by making Ayub as the CMLA and repented his actions in news media about the delicate position he had gotten himself into. He regretted his decision and said: \"I did not mean to do it,\" while offering assurances that the martial law would be for the shortest possible duration. In an attempt to consolidate the powers in his own control, Mirza unsuccessfully tried to appoint Ayub as Prime Minister the following and asked him to appoint the technocratic Cabinet. Such actions were not implemented due to Ayub Khan's protest against this attempt and briefly complained about Mirza's \"high hand\" methods. President Mirza made a bold move by undercutting Ayub's rival in the army, navy, marines, and air force by co-opting military officers in his favors. Informed of President Mirza's chicanery, Ayub dispatched the military unit to enter in presidential palace on the midnight of 26–27 October 1958 and placed him in a place to exile in to England. Subsequently, Admiral A. R. Khan and four army and air force generals: Azam, Amir, Wajid, and Asghar Khan were instrumental in Ayub Khan's rise to power.\n\nOuster of President Mirza was welcomed at public circles, Air Marshal Asghar Khan, the air force chief backed the actions for the martial law enforcement. He relieved the army command and appointed General Muhammad Musa as the new army chief while he promoted himself to the five-star rank, Field Marshal– a rank that many of his critics said that he never deserved.\n\nIn 1960, a referendum, that functioned as Electoral College, was held that asked the general public:\"\"Do you have confidence in Muhammad Ayub Khan?\".\" The voter turnout was recorded at 95.6% and such confirmation was used as impetus to formalise the new system– a presidential system. Ayub Khan was elected president for next five years and decided to pay his first state visit to United States with his wife and also daughter Begum Naseem Aurangzeb in July 1961. Highlights of his visit included a state dinner at Mount Vernon, a visit to the Islamic Center of Washington, and a ticker tape parade in New York City.\n\nA Constitutional Commission was set-up under the Supreme Court to implement the work on the Constitution that was led by Chief Justice Muhammad Shahabuddin and Supreme Court justices. The Commission reported in 1961 with its recommendations but President Ayub remained unsatisfied; he eventually altered the constitution that was entirely different from the one recommended by the Shahabuddin Commission. The Constitution reflected his personal views of politicians and the restriction of using religions in politics. His presidency restored the writ of government through the promulgated constitution and restored political freedom by lifting the martial law enforced since 1958.\n\nThe new Constitution respected Islam but did not declare Islam as state religion and was viewed as a liberal constitution. It also provided for election of the President by 80,000 (later raised to 120,000) Basic Democrats who could theoretically make their own choice but who were essentially under his control. He justified this as analogous to the American Electoral College and cited Thomas Jefferson as his inspiration. The Ayub administration \"guided\" the print newspapers though his takeover of key opposition papers and, while Ayub Khan permitted a National Assembly, it had only limited powers.\n\nOn 2 March 1961, he passed and signed the \"Muslim Family Laws\" bill through the ordinance under which unmitigated polygamy was abolished, consent of the current wife was made mandatory for a second marriage, brakes were also placed on the practice of instant divorce where men could divorce women by saying:\"I divorce you\" three times under Islamic tradition.\n\nThe Arbitration Councils were set up under the law in the urban and rural areas to deal with cases of: (a) grant of sanction to a person to contract a second marriage during the subsistence of a marriage; (b) reconciliation of a dispute between a husband and a wife; (c) grant of a maintenance allowance to the wife and children.\n\nIndustrialization and rural development through constructing modern national freeways are considered his greatest achievements and his era is remembered for successful industrialization in the impoverished country. Strong emphasis on capitalism and foreign direct investment (FDI) in the industry is often regarded as \"Great Decade\" in the history of the country (both economical and political history). The \"Great Decade\" was celebrated, which highlighted the development plans executed during the years of Ayub's rule, the private consortium companies, industries and credited with creating an environment where the private sector was encouraged to establish medium and small-scale industries in Pakistan. This opened up avenues for new job opportunities and thus the economic graph of the country started rising. He oversaw the development and completion of mega projects such as hydroelectric dams, power stations, and barrages in all over the country. During 1960–66, the annual GDP growth was recorded at 6.8%.\n\nSeveral energy conservation programs were completed such as World's one of the largest dam, the Mangla Dam and several small dams and water reservoirs in West Pakistan while completing one dam in East Pakistan: Kaptai Dam. Plans toward harnessing energy from nuclear sources were authorized by President Ayub against the wishes of his own administration over the cost of nuclear power plants. Initially, there were two nuclear power plants to be established in the country: one was in Karachi and the second one in Dhaka. It was Dr. Abdus Salam who had personally approved the project in Karachi against the wishes of his own government, while the project in East was never materialized.\n\nExtensive education reforms were supposedly carried out and 'scientific development efforts' also supposedly made during his years. These supposed policies could not be sustained after 1965, and the economy collapsed and led to the economic declines which he was unable to control.\n\nHe also introduced a new curricula and textbooks for universities and schools after building many public-sector universities and schools were built during his era. He also introduced agricultural reforms according to which no one could occupy land less than 12.5 acres (500 irrigated land and 1000 unirrigated.) An oil refinery was established in Karachi, and these reforms led to 15% GNP growth of the country that was three times greater than that of India. Despite the increase in the GNP growth, the profit and revenue was gained by the famous 22 families of the time that controlled 66% of the industries and land of the country and 80% of the banking and insurance companies of Pakistan.\n\nDuring his era, the Navy was able to induct submarines and slowly modified itself in terms of acquisitions of warships. However, he drastically reduced funding of military in 1950s and prioritized less on the issue of nuclear weapons in 1960s. Major procurement of weapons for the military was relied from the United States's generous donations. Major funding was made available for military acquisitions and procurement towards conventional weaponry for conventional defence. In 1960s, Pakistani military had American produced conventional weaponry in terms Jeep CJ, M48 Patton, M24 Chaffee, and M16 rifles, F-86, and submarine– all acquired through Foreign Military Sales program. In 1961, President Ayub started the nation's full fledge space program that was established with the cooperation of the Air Force, and created civilian Suparco that launched unmanned space missions throughout 1960s.\n\nHe focused the nuclear issue towards civil power and bypassed recommendations towards military-use of nuclear technology and reportedly spend ₨. 721 million on civil-use of technology in terms of education and nuclear power plants. Finance minister Muhammad Shoaib argued against spending on nuclear technology and was against of establishing a nuclear power plant in Karachi over on cost. It was Dr. Abdus Salam who had personally approved the project against the wishes of his own government.\n\nAfter the Sino-Indian war in 1962, the military appointments in civilian institutions grew further and defence spending on budget hiked. The physical size of the Pakistan Army's ground troops exponentially grew and the size of military budget grew from 5.79% (1960s) to 9.78% (1966) until being brought down to 6.1% (1967).\n\nThe foreign relations with the United States and European Union were prioritized and were main feature of his foreign policy while downplaying foreign relations with the Soviet Union. While he enjoyed support from President Dwight Eisenhower in 1950s and convinced the United States alongside with Prime Minister Ali Khan to forge military relations in an alliance against regional communism. His obsession towards modernization of the armed forces in shortest time possible saw the relations with United States as the only way to achieve his organization and personal objectives as he argued against civilian supremacy that would affect the American interests in the region as a result of an election.\nLeasing an airbase in Peshawar in 1950s, the Central Intelligence Agency's spy activities grew immensely during his presidency but such activities were exposed in 1960 when the Soviet Union's air defence intercept and shot down the U-2 plane by the S-75 missile, and captured its pilot. This incident severely compromised the national security of Pakistan that brought the Soviet ire on Pakistan but President Ayub had all knowledge of the operation and full aware of what happened in the Soviet Union. While in United Kingdom to pay state visit, the CIA station chief told President Ayub who shrugged his shoulders and said that he had expected this would happen at some point.\n\nAyub Khan had to publicly offer his apologies to the Soviet Union after USSR Secretary General Nikita Khrushchev made a threat to bomb Peshawar. President Ayub directed initiatives to Foreign Office to reduce tensions with the Soviet Union by facilitating state visits of Soviet Premier Alexei Kosygin and Soviet Foreign minister Gromyko in Pakistan on a condition of downplaying relations with the United States.\n\nIn 1960, he signed the historic frontier agreement with China despite the US urgings and was a significant event in history of Cold war where a non-communist country had entered in alliance with communist country.\n\nIn 1961–65, Ayub lost much of the support from President John Kennedy and President Lyndon Johnson who sought closer relations with India and placed an embargo on both nations during the war in 1965. In 1966–67, he wrestled with the United States' dictation on country's foreign policy while strengthening relations with Soviet Union and China, whereas he successfully signed a border agreement to resolve border disputes in 1960s. Relations with the Soviet Union were eventually normalized when the Soviets facilitated a peace treaty with India in 1965, and reached a trade treaty the following year. Despite initiatives made towards normalizing with Soviet Union, Ayub Khan remained inclined towards the United States and western world, having well-received President Johnson in Karachi in 1967.\n\nIn 1961–62, Ayub paid a state visit to the United Kingdom where he garnered a lot of public interests from the British public when his involvement was revealed in the Christine Keeler affair.\n\nIn 1959, Ayub Khan's interest in building defence forces already diminished when he made an offer of joint defense with India during the Sino-Indo clashes in October 1959 in Ladakh, in a move seen as a result of American pressure and a lack of understanding of Foreign affairs Upon hearing this proposal, India's Prime Minister Nehru reportedly counter-ask \"Defence Minister Ayub: Joint Defence on what?.\" India remained uninterested with such proposal and Prime Minister Nehru decided to push his country's role in the Non-Aligned Movement In 1960, President Ayub signed the water treaty with Prime Minister Nehru that was facilitated by the World Bank as its witness. In 1964, the Pakistan Army engaged with Indian Army in several skirmishes, and a secretive operations began to place around that time.\n\nThe war with India in 1965 was a turning point in his presidency, and it ended in a settlement reached by Ayub Khan at Tashkent, called the Tashkent Declaration, which was facilitated by the Soviet Union. The settlement was perceived negatively by many Pakistanis and led Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto to resign his post and take up opposition to Ayub Khan. According to Morrice James, \"For them [Pakistanis] Ayub had betrayed the nation and had inexcusably lost face before the Indians.\"\n\nAccording to Sartaj Aziz, it was Foreign Minister Bhutto that had gone on a populist Anti-Indian and Anti-American binge during the meeting in a cabinet meeting with President Ayub. Bhutto succeeded in the meeting on spellbinding the ruling President into thinking he was becoming a world statesman fawned upon by the enemies of the United States. When authorizing the \"Operation Gibraltar\", Deputy Chairman of Planning Commission had famously told the President in the meeting: \"Sir, I hope you realize that our foreign policy and our economic requirements are not fully consistent, in fact they are rapidly falling out of line\". Aziz vetoed the \"Operation Gibraltar\" against India, fearing the economical turmoil that would jolt the country's economy, but was rebuffed by his senior bureaucrats. In that meeting, Foreign Minister Bhutto convinced the President and the Finance Minister Muhammad Shoaib that India would not attack Pakistan due to Kashmir being a disputed territory, and per Bhutto's remarks: \"Pakistan’s incursion into Indian-occupied Kashmir, at [A]khnoor, would not provide [India] with the justification for attacking Pakistan across the international boundary because Kashmir was a disputed territory\". This theory proved wrong when India launched a full-scale war against West-Pakistan in 1965.\n\nHis army chief General Musa Khan did not order the Pakistan Army without the confirmation by President Ayub Khan despite Foreign Minister Bhutto's urging However, after the Indian Army advanced towards the Rann of Kutch, General Musa Khan ordered the army to respond against the opposing force. He faced serious altercations and public criticism with air chief AM Asghar Khan for hiding the details of the war. The Air AHQ began fighting the president over the contingency plans, and this inter-services rivalry ended with Asghar Khan's resignation. To reduce interservices tensions and criticism, navy commander Admiral A.R. Khan authorised the shelling operation against Indian Navy posts in shores of Dwarka, India.\n\nAbout the 1965 war's contingency plans, AM Nur Khan briefly wrote that \"Rumours about an impending operation were rife but the army had not shared the plans with other forces.\"\n\nAyub Khan's main sponsor, the United States, did not welcome the move and the Kennedy administration placed an economic embargo that caused Pakistan to lose $500 million in aid and grants that had been received through consortium. Ayub Khan could not politically survive in the aftermath of 1965 war with India and fell from the presidency after surrendering the presidential power to Army Commander General Yahya in 1969.\n\nIn 1964, President Ayub Khan had been confident in his apparent popularity and saw the deep divisions within the political opposition which ultimately led him to announce the presidential elections in 1965. He earned the nomination from Pakistan Muslim League (PML) and was shocked to see when Fatima Jinnah earned the nomination from the Combined Opposition Parties.\n\nFatima Jinnah had gained a lot of support from Karachi, Lahore, and various parts in West Pakistan and East Pakistan as opposed to President Ayub Khan. Jinnah targeted the Indus Waters Treaty and his over-reliance on the United States and troubled relations with the Soviet Union. During the elections, President Ayub earned notoriety when his son, Gohar Ayub Khan, was named in media for his involvement in authorizing political murders in Karachi, particularly those who supported Jinnah.\n\nAngry protesters took their demonstrations in streets in Sindh and slogans were chanted against President Ayub. Fatima Jinnah won the landslide voting but Ayub Khan won the elections through the Electoral College. During this time, Ayub Khan exploited the intelligence community to tape politicians telephone and monitor their gatherings for his own advantage. For that purpose, the Military Intelligence became extremely active during the presidential elections keeping politicians in mass surveillance and while Intelligence Bureau taped telephone recordings rather than keeping their work nation's defence and security. This was the first time in the nation's history that intelligence community had directly interfered in the national politics, and intelligence community continued this role in successive years.\n\nIt was reported that the elections were widely rigged by the state authorities and machinery under the control of Ayub Khan and it is believed that had the elections been held via direct ballot, Fatima Jinnah would have won. The Electoral College consisted of only 80,000 Basic Democrats, who were easily manipulated by President Ayub Khan and bitterly won the elections with 64%. The election did not conform to international standards per many journalists of the time and many saw the results with great suspicions.\n\nThe controversial winning over Fatima Jinnah in presidential elections and the outcomes of war with India in 1965 brought devastating results for Ayub Khan's image and his presidency. Upon returning from Tashkent, Foreign Minister Bhutto went to the television media and criticized President Ayub for selling nation's honor and sacrifice which promoted President Ayub to deposed Bhutto. In Karachi, the public resentment towards Ayub had been rising since the 1965 elections and his policies were widely disapproved.\n\nIn 1967, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto formed the socialist Pakistan Peoples Party and attacked Ayub administration's economic, religious, and social policy while taking the nationwide tour. Detention of Bhutto further inflamed the opposition and demonstration sparked in all over the country with East Pakistani Awami League charging Ayub administration of segregating policies towards East. Labour unions called for labour strikes against Ayub Khan's labour legislation and dissatisfaction was widespread in the country from country's middle class by the end of 1968. When the Ayub Khan was presented with the Six points by Rahman and Bhutto's called for disapproving Ayub; he responded by imprisoning both leaders but that made matters worst for Ayub's administration. Left-wing parties, allied with the conservative mass, began advocating for the Islamic parliamentary democracy system against his presidential rule.\n\nIn 1968, he survived a failed assassination attempt while visiting Dacca and was visibly shaken after this attempt, according to the close aides; though this was not reported in the press of the day.\n\nIn 1969, Ayub Khan opened up the negotiations with the opposition parties in what was termed as \"Round Table Conference\" where he held talks with every opposition party except for Awami League and Pakistan Peoples Party. However, no results were yielded and strong anti-Ayub demonstration sparked in all over the country that called for his resignation. During this time, Ayub Khan survived a near-fatal cardiac arrest that put him out of the office, and later survived a paralysis attack that put him on wheelchair. The Police were unable to control the situation and the law and order situation worsen in the country, especially in East where the serious uprising and riots were quelled in 1969, that at one point, his Home and Defence Minister Vice-Admiral Rahman told the journalists that the \"country was under the Mob rule and that Police were not strong enough to tackle the situation\".\n\nThe PPP also led very strong protests, street demonstrations, and riots against the Ayub Khan's administration when the prices of food consumer products such as sugar, tea, and wheat, hiked up and eventually people widely disapproved of Ayub Khan by chanting slogans and employing insults on referring to Ayub in 1969. On the streets of major cities of West Pakistan, there were massive wall chalking that were identified as derogatory and pejorative terms employed on Ayub and his image that made headlines in the print and electronic media. Ayub Khan, himself, was shocked when hearing the young protesters and college students in West had been referring him to as \"Dog\". According to the \"Dawn\" editorial in 2014, it was first time in the history when the derogatory language was used against country's politicians.\n\nElements in the military began supporting the political parties that brought the demise of Ayub Khan's era, and on 25 March 1969, President Ayub Khan resigned from office and invited army chief General Yahya Khan to take over the control of the country.\n\nAyub Khan did not comment on Bangladesh Liberation War with Bangladesh in 1971 and died of heart attack on 19 April 1974 at his villa near Islamabad.\n\nHis presidency was characterised by an increasing dependency on East Pakistan for export revenues, coupled with an exclusion of East Pakistan from political influence. This laid the foundation for breaking up of the nation's unity in 1971.\n\nAyub Khan's presidency allied Pakistan with the American-led military alliance against the Soviet Union which helped Pakistan developed its strong economic background, long-term political and strategic relations with the United States. Major economic aid and trade from the United States and European Communities ultimately led Pakistan's industrial sector developed rapidly but the consequences of cartelization included increased inequality in the distribution of wealth. After 1965, he became extremely concerned about the arrogance and bossiness of the US over the directions of nation's foreign policy when the US publicly criticized Pakistan for building ties with China and Soviet Union; he authored a book over this issue known as \"\"Friends not Masters\".\"\n\nRelocation of the federal capital was undertaken under Ayub administration from Karachi to mountainous but excessively planned city: Islamabad. Facilitated by the World Bank, Ayub administration became a party of the Indus Waters Treaty with archrival India to resolve disputes regarding the sharing of the waters of the six rivers in the Punjab Doab that flow between the two countries. Khan's administration also built a major network of irrigation canals, high-water dams and thermal and hydroelectric power stations.\n\nHe subsidized fertilizers and modernized agriculture through irrigation development, spurred industrial growth with liberal tax benefits. In the decade of his rule, the GNP rose by 45% and manufactured goods began to overtake such traditional exports as jute and cotton. However, the economists in Planning Commission alleged that his policies were tailored to reward the elite families and major landowners in the country. In 1968, his administration celebrated the so-called \"Decade of Development\" when the mass protests erupted in all over the country due to an increasingly greater divide between the rich and the poor. This laid the foundation for breaking up of the nation's unity in 1971.\n\nAfter 1965, the corruption in government, nepotism, and suppression of free speech, thought, and press increased unrest and turmoils in the country against Ayub administration. Public criticism of his personal and son's wealth increased and Ayub's image was shattered when his son's actions after his father's election in the allegedly rigged 1965 Presidential elections against Fatima Jinnah is a subject of criticism by many writers. In 2003, the nephew of the Quaid-i-Azam, Akbar Pirbhai, re-ignited the controversy by suggesting that she was assassinated by the Ayub Khan establishment. His son, Gohar, said that he led a victory parade right into the heartland of opposition territory in Karachi in a blatantly provocative move and the civil administration's failure to stop the rally led to fierce clashes between opposing groups with many locals being killed. Gohar Ayub Khan also faced criticisms during that time on questions of family corruption and cronyism through his business links with his father-in-law retired Habibullah Khan Khattak.\n\nOne Western commentator in 1969 estimated Gohar Ayub's personal wealth at the time at $4 million, while his family's wealth was put in the range of $10–20 million.\n\nAyub Khan is critiqued for the growth in income inequality 5 million people fell below the poverty line. He is also blamed for not doing enough to tackle the significant economic disparity between East and West Pakistan whilst he was aware of the acute grievances of East Pakistan he did try to address the situation. However, the Ayub Khan regime was so highly centralized that, in the absence of democratic institutions, densely populated and politicized East Pakistan province continued to feel it was being slighted.\n\nSadaf Farooq from School of Politics and International Relations at the University of Reading argued that workers wages fell by 60% in 1960s and the policy of promoting entrepreneur elite and Industrial cartels to get economic growth generated increasing regional and social tensions among the nation and the emergence of business and industrial cartels.\n\nAfter his death, his family members became active in national politics in 1990s until present; however, his family members and sons have been subject of controversies since then. His son, Gohar, is an active member of conservative PML(N) and was the Foreign Minister in Sharif ministry in 1990s but was removed due to his controversial statements without authorization in regards to India. His daughter Begum Nasim Aurangzeb remained inactive in politics and was married to Miangul Aurangzeb, the Wali of Swat.\n\nHis grandson, Omar, served in the Aziz ministry as a Finance Minister in 2000s but joined the PML(N) in 2010; he was declared ineligible for general election held in 2013 due to the allegations proved for vote riggings. Another grandson, Yousaf, is a party worker of PTI, who was also declared ineligible for submitting fake documents to the Election Commission.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57590734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57590734", "title": "Bani Walid detention camp", "text": "Bani Walid detention camp\n\nThe Bani Walid detention camp is a secret prison in northwest Libya near the town of Bani Walid. Prisoners at the center often come from subsaharan Africa en route to Europe, and include adolescents and women. In order to extort their families, detention guards reportedly torture, rape, or threaten prisoners, who face similar conditions in other camps in the region. In May 2018, many Bani Walid prisoners attempted to escape, with most being shot or recaptured.\n\nAgence France Presse has reported that there are approximately 20 detention centers in and around the town of Bani Walid.\n\nThe Geneva nonprofit agency Global Detention Project has reported that the Bani Walid Immigrant Detention Centre has been in operation since 2009. After the 2011 fall of the government of Muammar Gaddafi, Libya became a major site of transit for migrants desperate to reach Europe, and Bani Walid is an important node in the migration route. As of 2018 there were approximately 700,000 migrants in Libya.\n\nReuters and Doctors Without Borders (Medecins Sans Frontières, or MSF), which has worked in the region around Bani Walid since 2017, have stated that migrants are often kidnapped or tortured for extortion. The BBC have reported that migrants are forced to call home while being tortured, in order to extort money from families. The \"World Socialist Web Site\" has reported that the Ben Walid camp is privately operated and that the United Nations does not have access to it.\n\nIn October 2017, a former guard at the Bani Walid camp, Osman Matammud, was convicted in Milan, Italy of murder, abduction, and sexual violence against female detainees at the Bani Walid detention camp. At the trial, witnesses to torture and abuse in the camp said that young women were repeatedly raped, and that plastic bags were placed on the backs of migrants and set on fire. Others said that migrants died from torture, starvation, thirst or lack of medical treatment.\n\nIlda Boccassini, an Italian prosecutor who has spent her career prosecuting the Mafia, stated that conditions in Bani Walid were similar to those in transit camps throughout the region.\n\nMSF have stated that they provide 50 body bogs each month to an organization in Bani Walid that attempts to bury migrant dead in the area, and that 730 migrants were buried in 2017.\n\nOn May 25, 2018, MSF reported that over 100 detainees held at the camp were shot as they attempted to escape. At least 15 were killed and 40 were left behind at the camp, with those remaining mostly women. Residents, elders, and doctors of the town of Bani Walid attempted to defend the escapees who reached the town against detention camp staff pursuing them.\n\nMSF doctors treated 25 of the escapees at Bani Walid General hospital, where victims suffered from serious gunshot wounds and fractures. Many had scars from old wounds sustained from up to three years of captivity, which included electric burns. Some survivors said that they had left and been sold back to the camp numerous times. Survivors of the escape attempt were primarily adolescents from Eritrea, Ethiopia and Somalia, some seeking asylum in Europe. The survivors were moved to a security facility in Bani Walid and then to detention camps in Tripoli.\n\n"}
{"id": "23346566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23346566", "title": "Cardiff Big Weekend", "text": "Cardiff Big Weekend\n\nThe Cardiff Big Weekend took place annually from 1993 to 2011 as part of the Cardiff Festival organised by Cardiff Council. It lasted three days and was billed as \"the UK’s biggest free outdoor music festival\".\n\nAmong the acts at the Pride Cymru Big Weekend in 2017 were Bright Light Bright Light, Charlotte Church and Zervas & Pepper.\n\n"}
{"id": "933713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=933713", "title": "Chuseok", "text": "Chuseok\n\nChuseok (; ), literally \"Autumn eve\", once known as hangawi (Hangul: ; ; from archaic Korean for \"the great middle (of autumn)\"), is a major harvest festival and a three-day holiday in North Korea and South Korea celebrated on the 15th day of the 8th month of the lunar calendar on the full moon. Like many other harvest festivals around the world, it is held around the autumn equinox, i.e. at the very end of summer or in early autumn.\nAs a celebration of the good harvest, Koreans visit their ancestral hometowns and share a feast of Korean traditional food such as \"songpyeon\" (Hangul: 송편) and rice wines such as \"sindoju\" and \"dongdongju\". There are two major traditions related to Chuseok: Charye (ancestor memorial services at home) and Seongmyo (family visit to the ancestral graves).\n\nAccording to popular belief, \"Chuseok\" originates from \"gabae \"(Hangul: 가배). \"Gabae\" started during the reign of the third king of the kingdom of Silla (57 BC ??AD 935), when it was a month-long weaving contest between two teams. On the day of \"Gabae\", the team that had woven more cloth won and would be treated to a feast by the losing team. However, it is also said that \"Chuseok\" marks the day Silla won a great victory over the rival kingdom of Baekje. It is believed that weaving competitions, archery competitions, and martial arts demonstrations were held as part of the festivities.\n\nMany scholars also believe \"Chuseok\" may originate from ancient shamanistic celebrations of the harvest moon. New harvests are offered to local deities and ancestors, which means \"Chuseok\" may have originated as a worship ritual. In some areas, if there is no harvest, worship rituals are postponed, or in areas with no annual harvest, \"Chuseok\" is not celebrated.\n\nIn contemporary South Korea, on\" Chuseok\", masses of people travel from large cities to their hometowns to pay respect to the spirits of their ancestors. \"Chuseok\" celebrates the bountiful harvest and strives for the next year to be better than the last. People perform ancestral worship rituals early in the morning. Then, they visit the tombs of their immediate ancestors to trim plants and clean the area around the tomb, and offer food, drink, and crops to their ancestors. South Koreans consider autumn the best season of the year due to clear skies, cool winds, and it is a perfect harvesting season. Harvest crops are attributed to the blessing of ancestors. \"Chuseok\" is commonly translated as \"Korean Thanksgiving\" in American English. Although most South Koreans will be visiting their families and ancestral homes, there are festivities held at the National Folk Museum in Seoul. Many places are closed during this national holiday including: banks, schools, post offices, governmental departments, stores, etc. Travel tickets are usually sold out three months in advance and roads and hotels are overcrowded. \n\n\"Charye\" is one of the ancestral memorial rites celebrated during \"Chuseok,\" symbolising the returning of favours and honoring ancestors and past generations. The rite involves the gathering of families in holding a memorial service for their ancestors through the harvesting, preparation and presentation of special foods as offerings. The rite embodies the traditional view of spiritual life beyond physical death, respecting the spirits of the afterlife that now also serve to protect their descendants. The foods offered have traditionally varied across provinces depending on what was available, but commonly constitute of freshly harvested rice, rice cakes \"(songpyeon)\" and fresh meat, fruit and vegetables. The arrangement of the foods of \"Charye\" on the table are also notable: traditionally rice and soup are placed on the north and fruits and vegetables are placed on the south; meat dishes are served on the west and in the middle, and rice cake and some drinks such as \"makgeolli\" or \"soju\" are placed on the east. These details can vary across regions.\n\n\"Seongmyo\" and \"Beolcho\" are also done around \"Chuseok\" week. \"Seongmyo\" is a visiting to ancestral grave sites and \"Beolcho\" is the activity to remove weeds around the grave to clean their ancestor's site.\n\nOne of the major foods prepared and eaten during the \"Chuseok holiday\" is \"songpyeon\" (Hangul: 송편; 松편), a Korean traditional rice cake which contains stuffing made with ingredients such as sesame seeds, black beans, mung beans, cinnamon, pine nut, walnut, chestnut, jujube, and honey.\nWhen making \"songpyeon\", steaming them over a layer of pine-needles is critical. The word \"song\" in \"songpyeon\" means a pine tree in Korean. The pine needles not only contribute to \"songpyeon's\" aromatic fragrance, but also its beauty and taste.\n\n\"Songpyeon\" is also significant because of the meaning contained in its shape. \"Songpyeon's\" rice skin itself resembles the shape of a full moon, but once it wraps the stuffing, its shape resembles the half-moon. Since the Three Kingdoms era in Korean history, a Korean legend stated that these two shapes ruled the destinies of the two greatest rival kingdoms, Baekje and Silla. During the era of King Uija of Baekje, an encrypted phrase, \"Baekje is full-moon and Silla is half moon\" was found on a turtle's back and it predicted the fall of the Baekje and the rise of the Silla. The prophecy came true when Silla defeated Baekje. Ever since, Koreans have believed a half-moon shape is an indicator of a bright future or victory. Therefore, during \"Chuseok\", families gather together and eat half-moon-shaped \"Songpyeon\" under the full moon, wishing for a brighter future.\n\nAnother popular Korean traditional food that people eat during \"Chuseok\" is \"hangwa\". It is an artistic food decorated with natural colors and textured with patterns. \"Hangwa\" is made with rice flour, honey, fruit, and roots. People use edible natural ingredients to express various colors, flavors, and tastes. Because of its decoration and nutrition, Koreans eat \"hangwa\" not only during \"Chuseok\", but also for special events, for instance, weddings, birthday parties, and marriages.\n\nThe most famous types of \"hangwa\" are \"yakgwa, yugwa\", and \"dasik\". \"Yakgwa\" is a medicinal cookie which is made of fried rice flour dough ball, and \"yugwa\" is a fried cookie that also refers to a flower. \"Dasik\" is a tea cake that people enjoy with tea.\n\nA major element of Chuseok is the alcoholic beverages. Liquor drunk on Chuseok is called baekju (白酒, literally \"white liquor\") and nicknamed sindoju (新稻酒, literally \"new rice liquor\") as it is made of freshly harvested rice.\n\nKooksoondang, a maker of Korean traditional liquors, restored \"Yihwaju,\" rice wine from the Goryeo era (918–1392), and \"Songjeolju\" that has been widely enjoyed by Joseon (1392–1910) aristocrats. Its \"Jayang Baekseju\" package comprises a variety of liquors ― Jayang Baekseju, Jang Baekseju, Baekokju ― that are claimed to enhance men's stamina.\n\nAdults say that if you drink the alcoholic beverage which the ancestors have drunk; there will be nothing you’ll be scared of.\n\nOther foods commonly prepared are \"japchae\", \"bulgogi\", an assortment of Korean pancakes and fruits.\n\nThe Korean people started sharing daily necessities, such as sugar, soap or condiments, as Chuseok gifts in the 1960s. The gifts have changed since the Korean economy has developed. In the 1970s, Korean people had more options for Chuseok gifts; examples include cooking oil, toothpaste, instant coffee sets, cosmetics, television and rice cookers. People chose gift sets of fruit, meat and cosmetics in the 1980s. In the 1990s, people used gift vouchers for Chuseok. In the 21st century, more sophisticated gifts, such as sets of olive oil, natural vinegar and electronic devices have become the most popular option for Chuseok gifts.\n\nThere are some extravagant gifts that can be purchased: one kilogram of wild pine mushrooms, which are expensive because they cannot be artificially grown, (560,000 won) US$480.27 and red ginseng products (1.98 million won) US$1698.11. However, the most exorbitantly priced gift is six bottles of wine at Lotte Department Store for a staggering (33 million won) US$28,301.89.\n\nChuseok gift sets are big business in Korea, and prices are typically inflated.\n\nThe gifts are typically small, simple, and related to food because Chuseok is a harvest festival. There is etiquette surrounding gift-giving practices.\n\nIf buying a gift for a boss or an older person, personal hygiene products may not be appropriate. Honey is always a welcome gift. Another popular gift is a dried salted croaker fish.\n\nFor a co-worker, friend, or someone of similar age, dried fruit has typically been gifted, especially persimmon, or gham. Buying gifts for friends and colleagues is uncommon.\n\nRice cakes, tea, cookies or other equally small gifts are also acceptable. Most of the gift sets and packages at the stores are reasonably priced.\n\nA variety of folk games are played on \"Chuseok\" to celebrate the coming of autumn and rich harvest. Village folk dress themselves to resemble a cow or turtle, and go from house to house along with a \"nongak\" band playing music. Other common folk games played on \"Chuseok\" are archery, \"ssireum,\" tug-of-war, and \"juldarigi\" (Korean wrestling); folk games vary by region.\n\"Ssireum \"(Hangul: 씨름) is the most popular Korean sport played during \"Chuseok\", and contests are usually held during this holiday. Scholars have found evidence for \"ssireum's\" dating back to the Goguryeo dynasty, \"Ssireum\" is assumed to have 5000 years of history.\nTwo players wrestle each other while holding onto their opponent's \"satba\", a red and blue band. A player loses when his upper body touches the ground, and the winner becomes \"Cheonha Jangsa\", \"Baekdu Jangsa\", or \"Halla Jangsa\", meaning \"the most powerful\". The winner gets a bull and 1 kg of rice as the prize. Due to its popularity among both the young and the old, \"ssireum\" contests are held more frequently, not limited to important holidays.\n\nThe \"Ganggangsullae(Hangul: 강강술래)\" dance is a traditional folk dance performed under the full moon in the night of \"Chuseok\". Women wear Korean traditional dress, hanbok, make a big circle by holding hands, and sing a song while going around a circle. Its name, \"Ganggangsullae\", came from the refrain repeated after each verse, and contains no actual meaning.\n\nFor other folk games, they also play Neolttwigi (also known as the Korean plank), a traditional game played on a wooden board.\n\nJuldarigi (Hangul: 줄다리기), or tug-of-war, was enjoyed by an entire village population. Two groups of people are divided into two teams representing the female and male forces of the natural world. The game is considered an agricultural rite to augur the results of the year's farming. If the team representing the female concept won, it was thought the harvest that year would be rich.\n\n\"So-nori\" is a comedic performance in which people used a straw mat to disguise themselves as a cow and call from door to door for all to get together and share food.\n\nKorean people used to watch chicken fights (Hangul: 닭싸움), and learned how chickens fought; a game inspired by such was invented.\n\nTo play the game, people are separated into two balanced groups. One must bend his or her leg up and hold it bent with the knee poking out. The players must then attack each other with their bent knees, having to eliminate them by making their feet touch the ground; the last player holding up his or her knee wins.\n\nThe game is about strength, speed, and balance; in order to stay alive, one must display the capability of fighting back.\n\nHwatu, or Go-Stop (Hangul: 화투) is composed of 48 cards including 12 kinds. It originated from a Japanese card game called Hanafuda, and is the most popular card game played by Koreans today. The rules of the game and the term \"hwatu\" originated from Tujeon.\nEarly hwatu was similar to Hanafuda, but was changed due to similarities with the latter. It went through a course that made it reduced by 4 base colors and thinner than before, spreading throughout to turn out goods on a mass-produced basis.\n\nSince \"Chuseok\" has been a traditional holiday since long before the division of Korea, people in North Korea also celebrate \"Chuseok\". However, the ideology that divided Korea also caused some differences between \"Chuseok\" of North Korea and that of South Korea. Since the division, South Korea has adopted a westernized culture, so the way South Koreans enjoy the holiday is a typical way of enjoying holidays with family members. However, North Korea moved away from the traditional ways; in fact, North Korea did not celebrate \"Chuseok\" and other traditional holidays until the mid-1980s.\n\nThough most North Koreans do not have any family gatherings during \"Chuseok\", some, especially those in working classes, try to visit their ancestors's grave sites during \"Chuseok\". However, social and economic issues in North Korea have been preventing visits. In addition, their extremely poor infrastructure, especially in terms of public transportation, make it almost impossible for people to visit grave sites and their families. In contrast to the poorly situated lower class North Koreans, middle and elite classes enjoy the holiday as they want, easily traveling wherever they want to go.\n\nChuseok is on the following days:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13094932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13094932", "title": "Circumstances prior to the Malayan Emergency", "text": "Circumstances prior to the Malayan Emergency\n\nIn 1948, the Communists and the British colonial government in Malaya entered a period of guerrilla fighting which has become known to history as the Malayan Emergency.\n\nThe name derives from the state of emergency declared by the colonial administration in June 1948 to extend the powers of the police and military. The state of emergency was officially lifted in July 1960.\n\nIn the broadest context, the events leading to the emergency include the following:\n\nThis article focuses on the immediate antecedents to the Emergency, beginning shortly after the Japanese surrender and British reoccupation in August and September 1945.\n\nIn September to December 1945, General Labour Unions (GLU's) arose, sometimes with MCP guidance. They organised themselves as regional bodies rather than trade-specific bodies; this was consciously done in an effort to promote racial integration since particular racial groups tended to predominate in particular trades, e.g.; Chinese in mines, Malays in the civil service, often Indians on plantations.\nA number of short strikes were held, not necessarily involving entire GLU's. They had little material result but demonstrated a capacity to act.\n\nThere were considerable economic grounds for labour unrest. Real wages were below the pre-war level in 1948 compared to 1939 wages had risen about 3 times but the cost of living had gone up 4 times, so the real wage was about 3/4.\n\nNormal pre-war rice consumption had been per day. In April 1946 the rice ration in Singapore for an adult male was reduced from per week; in mid-August it was further reduced to per week, where it remained until an increase in December.\n\nThe \"Annual Report of the Colony of Singapore for 1946\" reported that the majority of infant deaths were due to rice shortage and lack of proper food.\n\nA survey of working-class families in the \"Report\" for 1947 found that only 22% of them had sufficient food energy in their diets and that 30 to 40% of the children suffered from malnutrition.\n\nIn its internal reports in 1945 the British administration recognised the tendency of such conditions to produce unrest, and stated that the strikes were motivated by economic conditions rather than a political programme.\n\nNevertheless, the British administration was not tolerant of the disturbances.\n\nIn October 1945 the Chinese-language newspapers \"Shih Tai Jit Pao\" and \"Pai Ma Tao Pao\" were closed and their editors and staffs convicted and imprisoned for sedition because of their use of the term \"economic exploitation\".\n\nA large strike, peaking at 18,000 workers on 17 December, broke out in Singapore. At that point, some members of the administration began taking the position that the strikes are political, not economic.\nHistorian Daud Latiff argues that the British were restrained from taking even harder measures against the strikes at this stage for two reasons:\n\nBeginning on 29 January 1946, a large strike occurred, centred around Singapore. It was largely in protest over the arrest and conviction (after two acquittals) of the former head of the Selangor section of the MPAJA, Soon Kwong, for punishing\na Japanese collaborator on 10 September 1945, when the MPAJA was still in partial control of the country.\n\n150,000 to 200,000 workers walked off the job; by the 31st Singapore was at a \"standstill\"; Soon Kwong was released on 3 February.\n\nA large demonstration was called for 15 February 1946, the fourth anniversary of the fall of Singapore. The organisers claimed that it was in memorial to the thousands of Malayans who had fallen in the defence of Singapore or been executed by the Japanese in the three weeks after that; but the authorities felt that it was an impertinent celebration of Britain's embarrassing defeat. They banned the demonstrations and on 14 February arrested 24 leading activists and placed them under deportation orders. On the 15th, demonstrators were confronted by troops who killed one and wounded 17\nin Singapore and killed 17 in Johore.\n\nAlso in February, labour set up a country-wide organisation called the Pan Malayan General Labour Union (PMGLU). Over the ensuing 12 months there was a rapid expansion of trade unionism throughout Malaya, with the PMGLU as the guiding force; by April 1947 the PMGLU had a membership of 263,598—over half the total work force—and encompassed 85% of the individual trade unions.\nThe attitude of the Malayan worker became more assertive during this period; for instance, \"A strike was reported of Chinese and Indian hospital workers because they no longer wanted to be addressed as 'boy' . . . .\",\nand workers began to see their subjection to physical punishments\nas unacceptable.\nHistorian T.N. Harper writes of the period:\n\nSome of the Indian Labour Unions became affiliated with the PMGLU,\nothers did not—most notably P. P. Narayanan's Negri Sembilan Estate Indian Workers' Union, which opted to remain a communal entity to fight the pay differential between Chinese and Indian workers.\nThe period saw a considerable upsurge in the number of strikes: in March 1946 the docks and tin smelter at Penang were \"paralysed\";\nin April a railway strike began which lasted several weeks;\nthere was striking among Indian plantation labourers along the entire west coast of the peninsula; and unrest continued in Singapore.\n\nThe journal \"British Malaya\" wrote in September 1946 that \"there have been an average of 27 strikes a week for the last seven weeks . . . .\"\nBetween April 1946 and March 1947, 713,000 worker days, or 2 per employee, were lost to strikes in Malaya, and in Singapore, 1,173,000 worker days, ten per employee, were lost.\n\nThe government countered this movement by changing some of the\nlaws and regulations on trade union activity, and resuming the enforcement of others that had been left in abeyance after the war.\n\nBy, at latest, early 1947, the ordinary trespassing law was being used to keep union organisers from addressing the workers on plantations. For instance in late March 1947, a large police force came to the Dublin estate in Kedah to arrest a Federation of Trades Unions official for trespassing as he was speaking to a group of workers there.\n\nWhen the workers closed ranks around the official to protect him\nthe police opened fire, killing one worker and wounding five.\n\nIncidents such as this demonstrate that the situation was already\nsomewhat revolutionary in that the workers were disputing,\nat least to some extent, the rights of private property, and\nthe establishment was willing to use severe measures against them.\nIndeed, among Indian estate labour in Kedah in early 1947\nthere appears to have been something almost akin to the formation\nof soviets:\nIn a clash at the Bedong estate on 3 March 1947, 21 labourers were injured; \"the strike leader died of injuries received at the hands of the police a few days later\"; 61 were sentenced to six months' imprisonment.\n\nThe 1940 \"Trade Union Ordinance\" required that unions in Malaya (unlike those in Britain) be registered, which meant that they had to open their books and other processes to inspection by government officers. The registration provisions were not initially enforced after World War II but beginning around the time that the civil administration (Malayan Union) took over from the British Military Administration (BMA) in April 1946, moves were made to require\ntrade unions to register.\n\nThe registration rules were somewhat restrictive; for instance government employees and non-government employees could not belong to the same union or even to unions affiliated with each other, and union funds could not be used for political purposes. Under these rules the GLU's were un-registerable and therefore could not operate legally.\n\nThe Singapore GLU (SGLU) reached an accommodation with the Trade Union Adviser in Singapore, S.P. Garrett, whereby it could reorganise as a Federation (not a union) and operate legally without registering. Accordingly, the SGLU became the Singapore Federation of Trade Unions (SFTU) in August 1946 and was (temporarily) safe from the law.\n\nShortly afterwards (25 August) the PMGLU on the peninsula, hoping for a similar application of the rules, reorganised itself as the Pan Malayan Federation of Trade Unions (PMFTU). However, the Trade Union Adviser in Malaya, John Brazier, was less sympathetic than Garrett and he and the registrar, Mr. Prentiss, quickly thwarted this move by ruling that all of the Federation's branch unions, which had to register, could not accept the guidance of any non-registered entity, and could not remit a portion of their funds to a federation or use funds for sympathy strikes. This left the PMFTU and its affiliates in legal quicksand, although no moves were taken yet to prosecute them.\n\nThe labour movement was dealt a serious legal blow in October 1947 when the right not to be fired merely for the act of striking, which had been somewhat customary although by no means universally upheld,\nwas effectively repealed by the ruling of Chief Justice of the Supreme Court Sir Harold Willan in the case of three woman rubber tappers who were contesting their dismissal for striking. He ruled that striking was a breach of contract and that therefore there was no legal impediment to firing.\n\nOther setbacks to the labour movement included the convictions of two\nprominent Indian trade unionists on charges of intimidation. In November 1947 S. Appadurai, vice-president of the Penang Federation of Trade Unions and chairman of the Indian section of the Peneng Harbour Labour Association was charged for having written to an employer warning him against using blacklegs. He was found guilty and sent to prison. In January 1948 K. Vanivellu, secretary of the Kedah Federation of Rubber Workers Unions was charged for having written to an employer asking him to reinstate 14 workers who had been dismissed for striking and suggesting that if he did not, the remaining workers might leave the job.\n\nFor this Vanivellu was sentenced to 18 months hard labour.\n\nAt the same time these avenues were being pursued, employers in Malaya, with government approval, began organising themselves into associations, \"employers unions\", to set maximum rates for wages and other benefits.\n\nA member was not permitted to pay more than those rates to its employees.\n\nThese organisations included the Malayan Mining Employers Association (MMEA), formed late 1946, which included the larger Chinese and all European mine owners, the United Planters Association of Malaya (UPAM), and the Malayan Planting Industries Employers Association (MPIEA), formed September 1947.\n\nA tactic of management that labour found particularly objectionable\nwas the use of Japanese prisoners of war as replacement workers during strikes, so that workers found the same people who had oppressed them during the war appearing against them again. They were first used in the Singapore dock strike, October 1945.\nThey were also used in the Batu Arang coal miners' strike.\nThe P.O.W.s were not returned to Japan until 1947, and Morgan says that they were \"consistently used by the British\" as replacement labour.\nThere were nearly 20,000 Japanese P.O.W.s in Singapore in 1946.\n\nBoth Harper and Nonini note that one of the most effective resources\nthat workers had in the tug-of-war with employers over wages and conditions was the ability of many of them to turn to small scale agriculture, usually semi-illicitly as \"squatters\", as an alternative to wage labour: thus if they were getting a bad deal at the estates or mines, they could simply go home and farm until better terms were forthcoming.\n\nIn effect this small-scale agriculture was an \"employer\"—an \"employment opportunity\" to be more precise—with which the large colonial employers had to compete; they sought to eliminate the competition.\nOne option open to them was the eviction of squatters from private land. Harper reports that in early 1948 there was a surge in the number of squatter evictions.\nThe first meeting held to discuss the \"squatter problem\" during the Emergency was between representatives of UPAM and the Malayan Estate Owners' Association, and the Colonial Chief Secretary, in mid 1948.\nUPAM had, for the preceding year and a half, been pressing the government to take action against squatters on its lands.\nAt the meeting, it was seeking a legal procedure whereby it could evict squatters in groups, rather than having to act against each one individually as was then required under the law.\nThe struggle between labour and capital in post-war Malaya took place\nagainst a background of considerable violence and uncertainty in the\nsociety in general, especially in rural areas.\nShort\nhas stated that the British never really regained control over rural Malaya after the Japanese occupation.\nThe MCP continued to have a stronger presence in some remote areas than did the government right through the post-war years and into the Emergency.\nIn addition to the MCP, there were other groups that wielded power in some places. The Indian \"thondar pedai\" have already been mentioned.\nAlso, Kuomintang (KMT) guerrillas \"set up what was in fact a local government among cultivators in the Lenggong area where they collected taxes, settled disputes and even tried and punished people.\"\nIn other places Chinese secret societies (e.g., the Triad) were powerful. And, besides these, there were bandit gangs with no political interest who simply engaged in robbing.\n\nShort gives a sample of some violent incidents that occurred in 1947:\n\nShort states that the rate of such violence was actually less in January through May 1948, than it had been in 1947.\n\nTurning again to the labour scene, by early 1947, the trade union movement in Malaya had reached the high point of its success. After that, there was a marked drop in the amount of strike activity, and the trend to improvement in workers' wages and work conditions slowed, and in some cases was reversed.\n\nThe imposition of legal restrictions such as those described earlier\n, and the mounting opposition of employers,\n\nwere undoubtedly prime causes of this change. To these reasons, Stenson has added that apparently there was a tactical decision made by the leaders of the Malayan left in early 1947 to adopt a more conciliatory approach to the business and government establishment.\nLet us go into these matters in more detail.\n\nBeginning in March 1947 there was a sharp reduction in strike activity.\nAccording to Morgan, \"Undoubtedly this was largely the result of the increased tempo of the employers' and Government offensive against organised labour.\"\nStenson, however, sees nuances. In March 1947 the PMFTU had \"reluctantly\" decided that it would have to seek registration; also, the constitution for the upcoming Federation of Malaya\nwas under discussion, and the MCP hoped to have a voice in this process via a left-oriented umbrella organisation of which it was a member, the All-Malayan Council of Joint Action (AMCJA); these considerations caused the MCP to unilaterally call a \"cease fire\" in the labour struggle, to make itself more palatable to the government.\n\nStenson notes that although the reduction in worker days lost in Malaya—713,000 in 1946 down to 512,000 in 1947—does not seem dramatic, many of the days lost in the latter period were in wildcat strikes, presumably not under MCP direction, by the Chinese tappers who had suffered the 20 per cent wage cut.\nThe Singapore figures show a clear drop.\n\nWhatever the cause for the cessation of labour militancy, the result was that in 1947 and early 1948 labour generally lost ground.\nAlso, as already described, government continued its regulatory and legal attacks on labour. And—the acid test—the FTU's were, in the end, refused registration and the AMCJA was excluded from the constitutional discussions.\nStenson:\n\nIn February 1948 the applications of the Pan Malayan Rubber Workers' Council and of the Pan Malayan Council of Government Workers for registration were denied by the registrar.\n\nThe quiet period in strike activity suddenly ended shortly before the Emergency was declared. \"At the beginning of April [1948] the workers at the Palau Brani tin smelter in Singapore came out on strike. After two weeks they were all given 24 hours' notice and told to leave their houses.\"\n\n\"The dockers' strike at Port Swettenham was broken by the employment\nof 200 Malay peasants as [replacement workers].\nCases of police brutality were frequent.\"\n\nA sit in strike at the Tai Thong rubber factory in Singapore was broken up by police: 38 of the workers were given 3 months rigorous imprisonment (hard labour) for trespassing.\nStrikes in the Slim River area of Perak resulted in 79 evictions from two of the estates involved.\nAt the Chan Kang Swee estate in Segamut, North Johore, \"the entire labour force [was] dismissed by a new European management. The workers, however, refused to leave their quarters, took over the running of the estate and expelled the manager. The latter\nreturned with 100 police, who in a baton charge against the labourers beat to death seven and injured ten others, without firing a shot or suffering any injuries themselves.\n\nOn June first, 1948, the MCP formally acquired \"Min Sheng Po\", the Chinese-language newspaper with the biggest circulation in the Federation. On 9 June 1948, the editor, Liew Yit Fan, was arrested for sedition. The charge stemmed from his paper's\ncoverage of the killings at Segamut.\nOn 30 or 31 May 1948 the FTU leader in Perak, R.G. Balan, and four other unionists were arrested.\n\nThe regulatory changes that effectively destroyed the PMFTU, the SFTU, and the state FTU's were amendments to the Trade Union Ordinance which were passed by the Federal Legislative Council on 31 May 1948. The amendments had first been discussed by officials in November 1947 and the drafts had been approved by the Labour Advisory Board in February 1948. Stenson states that information leaks out of the Labour Advisory Board were normal and that the MCP \"almost certainly\" would have known of the proposals.\n\nThe amendments were in three parts. The first stipulated that a trade union official must have at least three years experience in the industry concerned. The second prohibited anyone convicted of certain criminal offences (notably intimidation and extortion,\nwhich were common charges against unionists) from holding trade union office.\nThe third stated that a Federation could only include workers from one trade or industry.\nThe last provision clearly eliminated the PMFTU and the SFTU. The first provision Stenson describes as \"a measure designed to exclude educated 'outsiders'.\"\nIt was also problematic owing to the seasonal and transient nature of much of the work in the colonial economy.\n\nOn 13 June 1948 the PMFTU and the state FTU's were notified of refusal of their registration, and outlawed.\n\nThe decisions made by the MCP and the colonial government that led to the Emergency have been studied by scholars. The notion that the declaration of a state of emergency on 16 June 1948 was a hurried response by the government to a carefully planned surprise attack sprung upon it by the MCP has been generally rejected. 16 June can be seen as a point in a continuum of increasing suppression of radicalism in Malaya by the government, beginning in late 1945\nand extending into the \"Emergency\" years. Nevertheless, there does seem to have been an increase in violence in late May and early June 1948 (and, whether related or unrelated, an increase in strikes) which may have spurred the government to take the particular action it did at that time.\n\nThis however still leaves open the question whether, in the government's mind, the violence had created a necessity for action, or whether it had merely presented a \"psychologically opportune moment\" for the\nimposition of a regime that had been contemplated for some time.\nHistorian Harper describes the information possessed by the government\non the eve of the Emergency:\n\nCertainly the Malayan administration was sensitive of public opinion,\ninside and outside of Malaya, and also the opinion of the Colonial Office\nin London, which at that time was serving a Labour prime minister.\n\nShort portrays the decision making process that led specifically to the\ndeclaration of a state of emergency as having begun at a meeting of various\ngovernment officials 21 May 1948, the stated purpose of which was\n\"to consider the numerous and recent manifestations in Malaya of what\nappeared to be a general increase of Communist propaganda\nin many parts of the world,\nas well as in Malaya; and the steps which should be taken by the government\nto strike at organisations indulging in anti-government\nactivities and to restore public confidence in the government's ability\ntoprotect them from intimidation and lawlessness.\"\n\nThe meeting looked for links between the recent violence and the MCP.\nOddly, Short does not say whether they found any.\nThe meeting also decided various actions should be taken including\n\"a simultaneous raid on the headquarters of the PMFTU in Kuala Lumpur\nand of the Federations in each of the states\",\nand that the \"confidence\" of labourers should be restored by\n\"small bodies of troops who might be sent to various parts of the\ncountry as part of a training exercise.\"\n\nShort then describes the Legislative Council debate of 31 May 1948. It contained highly anti-communistic speeches by several members, including Dato Onn.\nShort states that other decisions leading to the state of emergency were taken between 4 and 12 June June 1948.\nAt a meeting of the executive council on 12 June,\nthe High Commissioner, Sir Edward Gent, revealed that an \"Emergency Regulations Bill\" was being prepared (also a Sedition Bill; and a Printing Presses Bill was already before the Council).\n\nThe Emergency was declared 16 June 1948.\n\n"}
{"id": "3551939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3551939", "title": "Darwin Beer Can Regatta", "text": "Darwin Beer Can Regatta\n\nThe Darwin Beer Can Regatta is a festival event begun by Darwin businessmen, Lutz Frankenfeld and Paul Rice-Chapman, which has been held annually since 1974 in Darwin, Northern Territory, Australia at Mindil Beach. The inaugural event was attended by about 22,000 people which was about half of Darwin's population at the time. Participants create boats using empty beer cans, soft drink (soda) cans, soft drink bottle and milk cartons. The vessels are not tested for seaworthiness, prior to water events, and those that fall apart are part of the day's entertainment. A great many sundry events go along with the regatta, including concerts, a thong-throwing contest and the \"Henley-on-Mindil\" competition (named after the Henley-on-Todd Regatta), where participants run their \"boats\" around like \"Flintstones\" cars.\n\nThe Darwin Regional Tourism Promotion Association was the organiser of this event until 1978 when the event came under the aegis of the combined Lions Clubs of Darwin.\n\nOther events held on the day have included a thong-throwing contest and a competition for the best novelty hat.\n\nThe 2014 Darwin Lions Beer Can Regatta took place on 6 July 2014, watched by 15,000 people and attended by visitors from all over Australia. The winner of the first beer can regatta was Kevin Jaques driving the Darwin Powerboat Club's entry \"Pistol Knight\". Des Hoare the cricketer and then Sales Manager for Swan Brewery Darwin, presented Kevin Jaques with the winning cheques totalling $1,000, doubled because the beer can boat used only Swan beer cans. As Kevin Jaques used his 80 hp Mercury Motor he was also presented with a Mercury First sticker. The perpetual trophy is held within the NT Museum storage area and the keepsake trophy is on the mantlepiece at Kevin Jaques home. Kevin Jaques holds copies of the news clippings and the photographs of the presentations. (This entry updated by Kevin and Cheryl Jaques on 21 June 2017. The main event, the \"Battle of Mindil\", was fought for a $500 prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "24810144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24810144", "title": "Drunk driving law by country", "text": "Drunk driving law by country\n\nThe laws of driving under the influence vary between countries. One difference is the acceptable limit of blood alcohol content before a person is charged with a crime.\n\n\nThe \"Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1968–69\" made it a per se offense to drive with a BAC in excess of 80 mg/100 ml of blood. Refusal of a police officer's demand to provide a breath sample was made an offence at the same time and both began as summary conviction offenses, with a mandatory minimum $50 fine.\n\n\nIn the United States, the blood alcohol level at which all states make it unlawful to operate a motor vehicle is 0.08, although it is possible to be convicted of impaired driving at a lower blood alcohol level. Some states define two impaired driving offenses.\n\nThe first offense requires proof of intoxication, although evidence of BAC is admissible as rebuttably presumptive evidence of that intoxication; the second requires only proof of BAC at the time of being in physical control of a motor vehicle. An accused may potentially be convicted of both offenses as a result of a single incident, but may only be punished for one. The differences between state penalties still varies. Wisconsin, for instance, is the only state that continues to treat first offense drunk driving arrests as forfeiture.\n\nSome states also include a lesser charge of driving with a BAC of 0.05%; other states limit this offense to drivers under the age of 21. All states and DC also now have zero tolerance laws: the license of anyone under 21 driving with any detectable alcohol in their bloodstream (BAC limits of 0.01% or 0.02% apply in some states, such as Florida.) will be suspended. In 2009, Puerto Rico joined these states, setting a limit of 0.02 for drivers under 21, despite maintaining a legal drinking age of 18.\n\nThe blood alcohol limit for commercial drivers is 0.04%. Pilots of aircraft may not fly within eight hours of consuming alcohol, while under the impairing influence of alcohol or any other drug, or while showing a blood alcohol concentration equal to or greater than 0.04 grams per decilitre of blood.\n\nUtah became the first U.S. state to lower the legal limit to .05% BAC by volume on 24 March 2017. The law takes effect on 30 December 2018. The bill’s passage, HB155, was controversial in the state. A poll published on 29 July 2017 found 50 percent of Utahns supported the new law, but 47 percent opposed it.\n\nIn most states, the timing of the chemical test for suspected drunk driving is important because the law mandates a result within a given time period after the driving stopped, usually two hours.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNote: Take \"zero\" to usually mean \"below detection limit\".\n\nIn British law it is a criminal offence to be \"drunk in charge\" of a motor vehicle. The definition depends on such things as being in or near the vehicle, and having access to a means of starting the vehicle's engine and driving it away (i.e., the keys to a vehicle). A passenger in the vehicle can also be prosecuted if the police can prove that they were driving under the influence at some point.\n\nThe UK's drug driving laws were updated in 2015. The changes included: a new roadside testing kit, which could detect the presence of cocaine and cannabis in a suspect's saliva; zero tolerance limits for a number of illegal drugs, Limits were also set for certain prescription medications. \nThe laws, however, did not end the use of the field impairment test, but made them more relevant for determining driver impairment by those drugs that are not now covered by the new legislation, or cannot be identified by the limited use of a device, that currently are only authorised for cannabis and cocaine.\n\nIn the UK, driving or attempting to drive whilst above the legal limit of 0.08% BAC in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, and 0.05% BAC in Scotland or unfit through drink carries a maximum penalty of six months' imprisonment, a fine of up to £5,000 and a minimum twelve months' disqualification. For a second offense committed within ten years of conviction, the minimum ban is three years. Being in charge of a vehicle whilst over the legal limit or unfit through drink could result in three months' imprisonment plus a fine of up to £2,500 and a driving ban. Causing death by careless driving when under the influence of alcohol or other drugs carries a maximum penalty of fourteen years in prison, a minimum two-year driving ban and a requirement to pass an extended driving test before the offender is able to drive legally again.\n\nIt is an offense to refuse to provide a specimen of breath, blood or urine for analysis. The penalties for refusing are the same as those for actual drunk driving.\n\nThe offense of driving whilst under the influence of alcohol is one to which there is no defense, as such (although defences such as duress or automatism, which are not specific to the offense of driving with excess alcohol, may apply in certain rare circumstances). However, it may be possible to argue that special reasons exist which are such that the offender shouldn't be disqualified from driving despite having committed the offense. Special reasons are notoriously difficult to establish and the burden of proof is always upon the accused to establish them. Such reasons may include:\n\nIn England and Wales, when DWI offenders appear before a magistrates' court, the magistrates have guidelines they refer to before they decide on a suitable sentence to give the offender. These guidelines are issued by the Sentencing Guidelines Council and cover offenses for which sentence is frequently imposed in a magistrates' court when dealing with adult offenders.\n\nOffenses can either be tried summarily which means they can only be heard in the magistrates' court or they can be either way offense which means magistrates may find their sentencing powers are insufficient and indict the case to crown court. The majority of drunk driving offenses are summary only offences which can only be tried in a magistrates' court. Only the most serious offences such as a collision, death or injury involved are indicted to crown court. The maximum sentence magistrates can usually impose for \"being in charge of a vehicle while above the legal limit or unfit through drink\" is a £2,500 fine, a three-month prison sentence or a driving ban. The maximum sentence magistrates can usually impose for \"driving or attempting to drive while above the legal limit or unfit through drink\" is six months’ imprisonment, an unlimited fine or a driving ban for at least 1 year (3 years if convicted twice in 10 years). In theory, the fine is means tested and based on disposable income.\n\nAs with England and Wales, road traffic law in Scotland is in the main framed within the Road Traffic Act 1988 as amended. Prosecution and disposal of drink-drive offenses is broadly similar to England and Wales with less serious cases prosecuted on complaint through the sheriff summary courts. Cases involving aggravations, life-changing or fatal injuries are prosecuted on indictment via the sheriff solemn or high court. As with most UK-wide legislation, the penalties and sentencing guidelines for drunk driving in Scotland mirror those in effect in England and Wales.\n\nRoad laws are state or territory based, but all states and territories have set similar rules.\n\nAustralian law allow police officers to stop any driver and perform a random breath test without reason. Roadblocks can be set up (for example, leading out of town centers on Friday and Saturday nights and after football matches or other major events), where every single driver will be breath-tested.\n\nThis differs from UK and US laws where police generally need a reason to suspect that the driver is intoxicated before requesting a breath or sobriety test. It is an offence to refuse to provide a sample of breath when requested with severe penalties including prison.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are also other restrictions for drivers in Victoria:\n\n\nReadings over 0.08% but under 0.15% BAC, and 0.15% BAC and above (legally defined as Drunk Driving) comprise separate offenses, the latter attracting heavier penalties. Persistent offenders may be barred from driving for terms up to and including life, and may also be imprisoned.\n\nThe law allows a police officer to require any driver to perform a random saliva test for methamphetamine, Cannabis or MDMA, all of which are subject to a zero limit.\n\nNew Zealand operates a program called Compulsory Breath Testing, which allows police to stop motorists at any time. CBT is usually carried out at roadside checkpoints but mobile patrol cars can also randomly stop motorists to administer a test. The police also carry out roadside drug tests upon motorists they suspect have used drugs.\n\nThe system in New Zealand is age-based. the limits are:\n\n\nThe penalties for exceeding the limits are:\n\nNote that penalties apply to the lowest reading taken across both breath and blood tests. For example, if a driver twenty years or over has a breath test result of 426 μg/L but a subsequent blood test returns 0.077% BAC, then the driver is not charged with any drink driving offense despite the breath reading being over the breath alcohol limit. The penalty for injuring or killing someone when under the influences is the same as dangerous driving (up to five years imprisonment, up to NZ$20,000 or both. Loss of license for one year or more).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45344089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45344089", "title": "Dumsor", "text": "Dumsor\n\nDumsor pronounced \"doom-sore\" (or more appropriately dum sɔ, \"off and on\") is a popular Ghanaian term used to describe persistent, irregular and unpredictable electric power outages.\n\nThe term is derived from two separate words from the Asante Twi, the Akuapem Twi or Fante dialects of the Akan language (a language spoken widely in Ghana), dum (to turn off or quench) and sɔ (to turn on or to kindle), so the term roughly translates as \"off-and-on\". The term has also recently evolved into \"dum dum: sɔ no mma\" (\"off and off\") due to the increase in the intensity of the power outages.\n\nIn 2018,a new term was coined by the energy minister who referred to the dumsor as \"dum kraa\" as compared to the intermittent power outages now \"dum so\" as the country faces outages.\n\nThe frequent Ghanaian blackouts are caused by a power supply shortage. Ghanaian generating capacity is currently 400-600 megawatts less than Ghana needs. Ghanaian electricity distributors regularly shed load with rolling blackouts.\n\nAt the beginning of 2015, the dumsor schedule went from 24 hours with light and 12 without to 12 hours with light and 24 without. The long blackouts contrast with the practice in other countries, where blackouts roll rapidly so that no residential area is without power for more than one hour at a time.\n\nGhana's power supply became erratic in early 2001. There was reduced generation capacity, due to a significant drop in water levels at the Akosombo Dam (Ghana's main hydro-electric dam). Water levels rose and the power crisis was temporarily resolved in late 2008.\n\nThe term (Dumsor) gain prominence in August 2012, when the President Mahama led government told Ghanaians that a ship's anchor cut the West African Gas Pipeline (WAGP), forcing gas turbines to shut down for lack of fuel. Since 2012, load shedding has become a regular experience, and the country has plunged into a major power crisis.\n\nMany Ghanaian companies are collapsing due to the irregularity of the power supply. The Institute of Statistical, Social and Economic Research (ISSER), in a recent report, stated that Ghana lost about 1 billion dollars in 2014 alone because of dumsor.\nA woman in labour at the Bawku Presby Hospital who gave birth and was on oxygen lost her life and the unborn baby after power supply went off in February 2016.\n\nElectronic equipment has been avoidably damaged, and refrigerated food regularly spoiled. Health and safety have also been harmed, with hospitals having no light, and a lack of electricity to run fans, increasing malaria risk.\n\nDumsor negatively affected Ghana's hosting of the AFCON 2008. \n\nThe 2004-2005 load shedding period happened under President John Agyekum Kufuor's administration but was not too frequent as during the tenure of John Dramani Mahama. The 2009–2011 load shedding period began under the John Dramani Mahama government, after the death of then-President John Evans Atta Mills during when the persistent on and off nature of the power supply in the country became abhorrent and Ghanaians out of frustration named the situation \"dumsor\". Though the Mahama government promised to fix this, they failed to do so. \n\nThe Ghanaian transmission system has been criticized by the World Bank for its poor financial and operational practices.\n\nThe Ministry of Power was created in November 2014, using the same staff as the continuing Ministry of Energy.\nGhanaian actress Yvonne Nelson started the \"#dumsormuststop\" campaign on social media. Other Ghanaian celebrities joined her. Hundreds attended a vigil in Accra on May 16, 2015 to protest against dumsor.\n\nThe Ghanaian government has plans to diversify its energy sources, using more renewables. It is also working to encourage energy conservation.\n\nThe word has been used by the general public in Ghana since 2012 in expressing anger, fun, mockery, worry and disappointment about the authorities and the ruling government. It has also gained popularity via social media websites such as Twitter and Facebook with the hashtag \"#Dumsor\". In 2015, John Mahama used the word in a state visit to Germany while talking with Angela Merkel. He said he has been nicknamed \"Mr. Dumsor\" due to the power crisis, which he attributed to Nigeria for not supplying gas as required to Ghana through the West Africa Gas Pipeline.\n\n"}
{"id": "4653399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4653399", "title": "Edinburgh International Science Festival", "text": "Edinburgh International Science Festival\n\nThe Edinburgh International Science Festival is a science festival which takes place each April in Edinburgh, Scotland. The festival features hundreds of talks, tours and exhibitions for children, families and adults in locations around the city. The festival was first held in 1989, and its principal sponsors are the Edinburgh City Council and the Scottish Executive.\nThe Edinburgh International Science Festival is one of the largest science festivals in Europe and the 2010 had over 200 different events across the city.\n\nScience Festival partners include the Medical Research Council, SCI-FUN, the University of Edinburgh, Our Dynamic Earth, the Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh, Bang Goes The Theory and many more. Dr. Bunhead regularly appears at the festival. Speakers in 2010 included Professor Richard Dawkins, Brian Cox and Professor Sir Ian Wilmut. The 2011 Science Festival ran from 9–22 April 2011. There were appearances by Professor Richard Dawkins, Lord Rees, Professor Lord Robert Winston, Kevin Warwick and Carl Djerassi. In 2011 the EISF featured Richard Wiseman as guest director of the festival.\n\nThe touring arm of the Edinburgh International Science Festival is Generation Science which is the educational outreach programme. It is one of the largest providers of science education outreach in Scotland.\n\nThe Edinburgh International Science Festival is a programming partner of the Abu Dhabi Science Festival.\n\nThe Edinburgh International Science Festival is one of 12 Edinburgh-based festivals who work collaboratively as Festivals Edinburgh on audience development, promotion and similar activities, including the Festivals API.\n\nIn 2013 the Science Festival hosted the first Mini Maker Faire in Scotland. This Edinburgh Mini Maker Faire event (also run in 2014 and 2015), bringing together artists, craftspeople, programmers, engineers, and other makers is an offshoot of the Maker Faire initiative, organised by MAKE magazine and O'Reilly Publishing.\n"}
{"id": "19780216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19780216", "title": "Fashion Rocks", "text": "Fashion Rocks\n\nFashion Rocks is an annual international charity fundraiser event, which features fashions by the world's top designers presented as live performances by popular music acts.\n\nFashion Rocks Worldwide is the owner of the intellectual property rights to the Fashion Rocks brand and grants licenses for these live events globally. Fashion Rocks Worldwide also operates a content and cross-border marketplace at www.fashionrocks.com.\n\nThe inaugural Fashion Rocks event was held at the Royal Albert Hall on October 15, 2003. Seventeen designers presented that night, including Donatella Versace and Alexander McQueen, with Björk, Jane's Addiction, Beyoncé, Robbie Williams, Grace Jones, Milla Jovovich, Blue and Duran Duran being among the performers. Proceeds went to The Prince's Trust, which totalled £1-million. The show was devised by Nicholas Coleridge, Chair of the British Fashion Council and President of Conde Nast International. \n\nIn 2004, Conde Nast held the first American Fashion Rocks event in New York, with Avril Lavigne performing along with John Rzeznik the mega-hit \"Iris\" by the Goo Goo Dolls. Other performers included Alicia Keys, Beyoncé, Usher with Dave Navarro, and the Pussycat Dolls along Marc Almond.\n\nThe second European event for the Prince's Trust was held on October 17, 2005 at the Grimaldi Forum in Monte Carlo and was sponsored by Swarovski. Hosted by Jerry Hall, a dozen designers presented that night, including Alexander McQueen, Calvin Klein, Dolce & Gabbana, Giorgio Armani, Prada, Roberto Cavalli, Versace and Vivienne Westwood. Musical guests included Blondie, Craig David, Amerie, Mariah Carey, Bon Jovi, Jamie Cullum and Róisín Murphy.\n\nThat same year, Condé Nast held an event on September 8 at Radio City Music Hall which kicked off New York Fashion Week. Among the performers that night were David Bowie, Gwen Stefani, Duran Duran, Alicia Keys, Tim McGraw, Shakira, Nelly, Billy Idol, Arcade Fire and Destiny's Child (in their last televised appearance as a group). Proceeds from the night went to Hurricane Katrina relief efforts\n\nIn 2006, Elton John hosted the event, with proceeds to go to the Elton John AIDS Foundation. Among the performers were Beyoncé, Jay-Z, Christina Aguilera, The Black Eyed Peas, and Nelly Furtado.\n\nThe 2007 Conde Nast event hosted by Jeremy Piven featured performances from artists such as Aerosmith, Avril Lavigne, Mary J. Blige, Usher, Jennifer Hudson, Santana, Alicia Keys, Carrie Underwood, Lily Allen, Sugababes, Maroon 5, Róisín Murphy and Jennifer Lopez.\n\nThe 2008 event was hosted by Denis Leary and featured Ciara, Rihanna, Justin Timberlake, Miley Cyrus, Beyoncé, Mariah Carey, Natasha Bedingfield, Fergie, Kid Rock&Lynyrd Skynyrd(performed together), Keith Urban, Duffy, the Pussycat Dolls and The Black Eyed Peas. Proceeds went to Stand Up To Cancer.\n\nIn 2009, the first ever Latin American event took place in Rio de Janeiro, in Brazil, presenting designers such as Riccardo Tisci, Lenny Niemeyer, Calvin Klein, Lino Villaventura, André Lima, Marc Jacobs, Alexandre Herchcovitch and Donatella Versace. The event was hosted by model Fernanda Lima and rapper Diddy. Musical guests performing at the event included Mariah Carey, Wanessa, Ja Rule, Diddy-Dirty Money, Daniela Mercury, Grace Jones, Estelle, Ciara and Stop Play Moon.\n\nThree Lions Entertainment and CEO Richard Beckman engineered the return of \"Fashion Rocks,\" The new music-inspired social fashion shopping site, www.fashionrocks.com was launched in August 2014.\n\nA new event took place in 2014, hosted in Brooklyn by Ryan Seacrest. Musical guests included Nicki Minaj, Afrojack, Duran Duran, Jennifer Lopez, KISS, Miranda Lambert, Nico & Vinz, Pitbull, Rita Ora, The Band Perry, Enrique Iglesias and Usher.\n\n"}
{"id": "13901270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13901270", "title": "Festival of the Sound", "text": "Festival of the Sound\n\nFestival of the Sound is an annual classical music festival that occurs from July to August in Parry Sound, Ontario, Canada.\n\nEstablished in by Anton Kuerti, the festival's original artistic director, the annual festival was held in the auditorium of Parry Sound High School until the opening of the town's Charles W. Stockey Centre for the Performing Arts in 2003. The festival presents a daily program of classical music performances by both Canadian and international musicians over a period of approximately three weeks.\n\nNoted performers at the festival have included vocalists Russell Braun, Mary Lou Fallis, Richard Margison, and Patricia O'Callaghan; instrumentalists Yo-Yo Ma, James Ehnes, Ofra Harnoy, Pinchas Zukerman, Michel Strauss, Joel Quarrington and János Starker; and pianists Menahem Pressler, Angela Hewitt, Martin Roscoe, Alexander Tselyakov, Janina Fialkowska, André Laplante, and Jan Lisiecki. The program has also occasionally included pop and jazz performers, including Catherine McKinnon, Rob McConnell, Moe Koffman, and Dizzy Gillespie. Notable ensembles that have appeared at the Festival include the New Zealand String Quartet, the St. Lawrence String Quartet, the Tokyo String Quartet, the Brodsky Quartet, the National Youth Orchestra of Canada, the Gryphon Trio, and the Beaux Arts Trio. Choral Music has also been featured at the festival with performances by the Choir of Trinity College, Cambridge, the Elmer Iseler Singers, and the Toronto Mendelssohn Choir.\n\nJames Campbell is the second and current artistic director of the festival and has held that position since 1984. The 2014 festival ran from July 18 to August 10, and closed with a performance of the Beethoven Symphony No. 9 under the direction of french horn virtuoso and conductor James Sommerville with the Elmer Iseler Singers and featuring soloists Russell Braun, Leslie Fagan, Marion Newman and Michael Colvin. The 2015 festival ran from July 17 to August 9, and closed with a performance of Papageno Revisited by Alexander Brott; the Piano Concerto No. 5 in E-flat major, Op. 73 \"Emperor Concerto\" by Ludwig van Beethoven; and the Symphony No. 9 in E minor, \"From the New World,\" Op. 95, B. 178 by Antonín Dvořák. The performance was conducted by Boris Brott and featured pianist Stewart Goodyear with the National Academy Orchestra of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "43021647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43021647", "title": "Garcia Report", "text": "Garcia Report\n\nThe Garcia Report was an investigation produced by Michael J. Garcia into allegations of corruption in world association football. Garcia was appointed in July 2012 to investigate ethical breaches at the FIFA, football's world governing body. A month later he announced an investigation into persistent public accusations of bribery and corruption in the 2018 and 2022 FIFA World Cup bids, which had been won in 2010 by Russia and Qatar respectively.\n\nAfter a two year investigation, Garcia submitted his 350-page report in September 2014, to Hans-Joachim Eckert, the FIFA's head of adjudication on ethical matters. He refused to publish the report, citing various legal grounds, instead releasing his own 42-page summary in November 2014. Eckert's summary was criticised in the media as a whitewash; Garcia described it as \"materially incomplete\". After unsuccessfully appealing for the FIFA to publish the full report, Garcia resigned in protest.\n\nOver the following years there was much speculation in the media regarding the contents of the report, particularly which aspects Eckert had left out of his summary and Garcia had felt were serious enough to warrant his resignation. In June 2017, the German newspaper \"Bild\" announced that it had obtained a leaked copy of the report and planned to publish it. FIFA released the report on the following day, pre-empting the newspaper coverage.\nOn 17 July 2012, in the wake of announced anti-corruption reforms by the President of the FIFA, Sepp Blatter, the organisation appointed former United States Attorney Michael J. Garcia as Chairman of the investigative branch of its Ethics Committee, while German judge Hans-Joachim Eckert was appointed as Chairman of the Ethics Committee's adjudication chamber. The reformed Ethics Committee was also given the power to retrospectively investigate old cases. As Garcia and Eckert fulfilled FIFA's statute of them or their families not having a paid connection to soccer in the previous four years, \"The Guardian\" wrote that \"Garcia and Eckert are regarded as key independent figures from outside the so-called 'football family' who can help restore FIFA's credibility after bribery and vote-buying scandals.\"\n\nUpon their appointment, Garcia and Eckert were immediately tasked to investigate alleged illegal payments made by FIFA marketing company International Sports and Leisure (ISL) to former FIFA President João Havelange and former Executive Committee member Ricardo Teixeira, as well as to evaluate the behaviour of FIFA President Sepp Blatter in the affair. ISL had specialized in buying and selling broadcast rights to FIFA events such as World Cups on contracts worth millions of dollars. The case was closed on 30 April 2014 after an investigation by Garcia, with Eckert ruling that bribes had been paid by ISL between 1992 and 2000 to Havelange, Teixeira and Nicolas Leoz, then-President of CONMEBOL. As Havelange (honorary President of FIFA) and Leoz had already resigned from their posts earlier in April 2014, no \"superfluous\" further action was taken. In contrast, Blatter was exonerated of \"criminal or ethical misconduct\", but was also described as \"clumsy\" and it was questioned whether he \"knew or should have known over the years before the bankruptcy of ISL that ISL had made bribes to other FIFA officials\".\n\nIn August 2012, Garcia declared his intention to investigate the bidding process and decision to award the right to host the 2018 and 2022 FIFA World Cup to Russia and Qatar respectively by the FIFA Executive Committee.\n\nThe decision of host venues had previously taken place in December 2010. In May 2011, while before a British parliamentary inquiry, the former chairman of England's failed 2018 bid, David Triesman, accused FIFA executive committee members Jack Warner, Worawi Makudi, Nicolas Leoz and Ricardo Teixeira of requesting bribes from the English team in exchange for support. The parliamentary inquiry also received evidence from \"The Sunday Times\" that FIFA executive committee members Issa Hayatou and Jacques Anouma were reportedly bribed with $1.5m by the Qatar team. The whistleblower who spoke to \"The Sunday Times\", Phaedra Al Majid, retracted her allegations in July 2011. In December 2011, \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported that the Federal Bureau of Investigation were investigating alleged hacking into email accounts for England and the United States' World Cup bids.\n\nFIFA forbids bid teams to offer incentives to members of its executive committee and their relatives. Garcia subsequently expanded his investigation into the entire bidding process for the 2018 World Cup. Garcia's investigation allowed him to demand interviews with football officials, with those refusing subject to disciplinary action. Garcia was not able to interview Mohammed bin Hammam, the former FIFA vice-president, as Hammam is banned for life from football activity. Garcia's investigation remit extended solely to individuals who might have violated FIFA's code of ethics. Garcia was expected to name individuals who refused to speak to him in his report. Garcia has no ability to subpoena people to speak to him or to ask internet service providers for documents.\n\nGarcia was assisted in his production of the report by Cornel Borbély, the deputy chairman of the investigatory chamber of the FIFA ethics committee. Borbély produced the section of the report that investigated Russia, as Garcia was sanctioned from entering the country, and the United States, to prevent a potential conflict of interest as Garcia is American. Russia was the only bidding country which Garcia failed to travel to in the course of his investigations.\n\nGarcia delivered his 350-page report in September 2014, and it was subsequently announced by Hans-Joachim Eckert, the head of the adjudicatory arm of FIFA's ethics committee, that it would not be made public for legal reasons. Eckert said that only his judgement on the report will be published, in the spring of 2015, and the report had only been seen by four people. Eckert later announced that his overview of the Garcia report with Garcia's main findings, summary, conclusions and recommendations will be published by the middle of November 2014. Eckert has said that \"Many won't like what I am going to tell them\" in reference to his forthcoming judgement on the report.\n\nEckert will only judge individuals, and will leave the decision on the hosting of the 2018 and 2022 world cups to FIFA. Garcia, along with some members of the FIFA Executive Committee, called for the Garcia report to be published in full, excepting names redacted to protect whistleblowers. Garcia has said of FIFA that its \"... investigation and adjudication process operates in most parts unseen and unheard...That's a kind of system which might be appropriate for an intelligence agency but not for an ethics compliance process in an international sports institution that serves the public and is the subject of intense public scrutiny.\"\n\nOn 13 November 2014, Hans-Joachim Eckert released a 42-page summary of his findings after reviewing Michael Garcia's report; the summary cleared both Russia and Qatar of any wrongdoing during the bidding for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups, leaving Russia and Qatar free to stage their respective World Cups. The summary noted that Russia provided \"only a limited amount of documents available for review\", as the computers leased to the Russian team had been destroyed, and several email accounts were unable to be accessed.\n\nThe Eckert summary was harsher on England and Australia, who had unsuccessful World Cup bids, finding \"potentially problematic facts and circumstances\" in their bids and stating that they had undermined the integrity of the bidding. England was described as behaving improperly when trying to win the support of then-CONCACAF head Jack Warner. Australia was criticized for the links between its bid and its funding of football development in African countries, and that two Australia consultants \"violated the bidding and ethics rules\". The bid teams for Japan and South Korea were also criticized for distributing \"gifts\" and giving the appearance of \"a conflict or an offer of benefits\" respectively.\n\nThe Eckert summary also all-but identified two whistleblowers and disparaged them. He referred to a Qatar whistleblower as \"not credible\", and an Australian whistleblower as \"unreliable\" as she had taken her concerns to the media. The two women were widely identifiable to journalists and others in the football community, and confirmed in a newspaper report by journalist Nick Harris.\n\nThe FIFA welcomed \"the fact that a degree of closure has been reached\", while the Associated Press wrote that the Eckert summary \"was denounced by critics as a whitewash\". Hours after the Eckert summary was released, Garcia himself criticized it for being \"materially incomplete\" with \"erroneous representations of the facts and conclusions\", while declaring his intention to appeal to the FIFA's Appeal Committee. There were several calls for the Garcia report to be released, including from FIFA Executive Committee members Jim Boyce, Jeffrey Webb and Sunil Gulati, as well as FIFA presidential candidate Jerome Champagne and English Premier League chief executive Richard Scudamore. Eckert, who was \"surprised\" by Garcia's response, refused to accede to calls to release the Garcia report, citing the \"rights of confidentiality for continental law\". Less than a week later, Eckert was quoted as saying that the investigation was only at \"an interim stage\" and that Garcia \"can now continue investigating towards the final report\".\n\nOn 15 November 2014, German Football League president Reinhard Rauball warned that UEFA may quit FIFA if Garcia's report is not published in full, citing that \"If this doesn't happen and the crisis is not resolved in a credible manner, you have to entertain the question of whether you are still in good hands with FIFA\". On 18 November 2014, acting on the recommendation of Eckert, the FIFA lodged a criminal complaint with the Swiss judiciary relating to the \"possible misconduct of individual persons in connection with the awarding of the hosting rights of the 2018 and 2022 World Cup\", specifically regarding \"international transfers of assets with connections to Switzerland\".\n\nOn 16 December 2014, the FIFA's Appeal Committee dismissed Garcia's appeal against the Eckert summary as \"not admissible\". FIFA also stated that Eckert's summary was \"neither legally binding nor appealable\". A day later, Garcia resigned from his role as FIFA ethics investigator in protest of FIFA's conduct, citing a \"lack of leadership\" and lost confidence in the independence of Eckert from the FIFA.\n\nOn 19 November 2014, following a presentation by Domenico Scala, head of FIFA's audit and compliance committee and one of only six people to have seen the report at that time, FIFA's executive committee unanimously agreed to publish a \"legally appropriate version\" of the Garcia report, with parts redacted to preserve witness confidentiality. However, the Garcia Report will only be published after five ongoing ethics investigations started by Garcia into the following individuals are concluded; for Ángel María Villar, Michel D'Hooghe, Worawi Makudi, Franz Beckenbauer and Harold Mayne-Nicholls. Meanwhile, the decision not to revisit the 2018 and 2022 vote was reaffirmed by the FIFA after Scala said that two independent legal experts he consulted supported that decision.\n\nWalter De Gregorio, in a press conference on 27 May 2015, stated that the Garcia report has been in the hands of the Office of the Attorney General of Switzerland since 19 November 2014. As part of the criminal proceedings the report may or may not be released. One day after \"Bild\" newspaper announced it had received a copy and intended to publish it, the FIFA released the full report on 27 June 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2118965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2118965", "title": "Golowan Festival", "text": "Golowan Festival\n\nGolowan (sometimes also Goluan or Gol-Jowan) is the Cornish language word for the Midsummer celebrations in Cornwall, UK: widespread prior to the late 19th century and most popular in the Penwith area and in particular Penzance and Newlyn. The 2018 Golowan Festival dates are 15 June to 24 June 2018. The celebrations were centred on the lighting of bonfires and fireworks and the performance of associated rituals. The midsummer bonfire ceremonies (\"Tansys Golowan\" in Cornish) were revived at St Ives in 1929 by the Old Cornwall Society and since then spread to other societies across Cornwall, as far as Kit Hill near Callington. Since 1991 the Golowan festival in Penzance has revived many of these ancient customs and has grown to become a major arts and culture festival: its central event 'Mazey Day' now attracts tens of thousands of people to the Penzance area in late June.\n\nThe ancient festival was first described by Dr William Borlase in 1754 in his book \"Antiquities of Cornwall\".\nThe Penzance Golowan was one of the last examples of this practice in Cornwall until its prohibition by the Penzance Borough Council in the 1890s due to increased insurance premiums in the town and perceived fire risk. The celebrations themselves were centred on the lighting of fireworks, tar barrels, and torches on the evening of 23 June every year (St John's Eve). Towards the end of these festivities the local youths of the town would take part in the ancient serpent dance and jump or pass themselves through the dying embers of the flames. During these celebrations it was also usual to elect a Mock Mayor or Mayor of the Quay.\nIn 1864 it was recorded that the organising committee of the festival let off \"258 dozen fire crackers and numerous Roman Candles, Jack-in-box and sky rockets\" The day after these celebrations, a 'Midsummer's Day' fair took place on Penzance quay; boat rides and other entertainments were included in these celebrations.\n\nTwo descriptions of the fire festival in Victorian times follow below:\n\nPorthleven and Newlyn in particular being centres for much of the celebration of St Peter's-tide because of St Peter's role as the patron saint of fishermen. St Peter's-tide is still celebrated in Porthleven however in a far more muted fashion Porthleven Petertide. M. A. Courtney in her book \"Cornish Feasts and Feasten Customs\" describes a delay to the Newlyn festivities in 1883 when the majority of the Newlyn fishing fleet were at sea, returning to celebrate the fire festival many days after the actual event. Polperro is also believed to be the site of major St Peter's Eve celebrations. Mevagissey feast which occurs around St Peter's Eve continues to be celebrated.\n\nThe people of St Just in Penwith had their own particular practices, Lake's Parochial history of Cornwall (1868) states:\n\nThroughout Europe there are similar fire festivals held on the 23 and 24 June. St. John's Eve in Ireland, Jāņi in Latvia and Saint Jonas' Festival are but a few examples. Golowan is just one example of a much wider Midsummer European tradition.\nThe modern Golowan festival in Penzance started in 1991 as an attempt to revive many of the traditions stated above and has grown into one of the UK's most distinctive festivals. The core of the modern festival is 3 days known as Mazey Eve, Mazey Day and Quay Fair Day. Mazey Eve takes place around the harbour area of Penzance and includes a popular election of the 'Mayor of Quay' and a large firework display. The following day – Mazey Day is a large community and arts celebration. Artists, Schools and members of the public take part in a series of processions that include music, giant sculptures and variety of other artistic activities. Contributions from musicians and artists from the Celtic nations are a regular feature as are a variety of other musical contributions. Penzance itself during this day is decorated with large amounts of greenery – mirroring the practice in the town during the ancient festival. A large number of market stalls are also present throughout the town. Mazey Day attracts thousands of visitors to the area and has become an important symbol of the identity of town amongst local people. Quay Fair day is a celebration that is similar in many ways to 'Midsummer Fair' described in the ancient festival with the addition a popular street entertainment.\n\nIn October 2015 Penzance Town Council passed a motion to outsource the running of the festival to a private company, after Cornwall Council \"lost confidence in Penzance Town Council's management of the festival\".\n\nDuring the evening of Mazey Eve and on 23 June (St John's Eve) every year Penglaz the Penzance 'Obby 'Oss appears. Penglaz owes its origins to the descriptions of the hobby horse that once accompanied the Christmas guisers in their perambulation of Penzance during the nineteenth century. The classic, contemporary account of the guisers' horse was given by Richard Edmonds who described the horse as being:\n\nThe horse was a character associated with 'Old Penglaze' in the guisers' games of forfeiture, described by William Sandys:\n\nBarbara Spooner in her work on the Padstow 'Obby 'Oss further describes the 'Obby 'Oss associated with \"Old Penglaze\".\n\nHer description is of the 'mast' type of hobby horse, and Spooner followed Robert Morton Nance in expressing the view that 'the May day games and Morris Dances, with their own type of hobby-horse, which includes a rider, had been brought in from England too recently to have acquired Cornish names.’It became imperative amongst the Celtic Revivalists of the early twentieth century that the Tourney horse (with its rider) should be seen as English, or foreign, whereas the mast horses were to be understood as native, Celtic beasts, complete with Celtic names. In fact, as Edwin Cawte demonstrated in his study of British and European hobby horse practices, the mast type of horse developed during the eighteenth century and was particularly popular during the nineteenth, whereas the Tourney variety predated it by several centuries.\n\nIn his Cornish dictionary, Robert Morton Nance believed the character of Old Penglaze to be the horse and believed that Penglaze was a genuine Celtic noun for a hobby horse, something one of the above mentioned quotations contradicts. Moreover the writer of Bewnans Meriasek, the life of St. Meriasek (or Meriadoc) of Camborne, writing in Cornish, understood the hobby horse as feminine in gender, whereas Penglaze is masculine, potentially undermining its status as an example of Cornish language.\n\nRegardless of the accuracy of its linguistic origins and accuracy of naming, etc., the modern Golowan festival's Penglaz takes its appearance from the later quotations descriptions and resembles strongly the Mari Lwyd of Welsh tradition and was first introduced in 1992 at the second revived Golowan festival by Merv Davey Hon piper of Gorseth Kernow. The original horse now forming part of Cornish music group Pyba's Guise dance programme being renamed \"Penguise\". The current \"Oss\" being used for the first time in 1993 .\n\nThe ancient Golowan celebrations were also the inspiration for the Old Cornwall Societies' midsummer bonfire celebrations. The hilltop bonfires that form a chain are currently held at Kit Hill, St Breock beacon, Castle An Dinas, and Redruth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21044256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21044256", "title": "Gulf Tiger", "text": "Gulf Tiger\n\nThe Gulf Tiger or Arab Gulf Tiger is a nickname used to describe the period of rapid economic growth in the city of Dubai. The boom that Dubai has been experiencing since the 1990s is still going on, transforming the city from a desert village to a world class economic hub.\n\nThe city of Dubai is the second most prosperous emirate of the United Arab Emirates, after Abu Dhabi, and with a cosmopolitan population of 1.6 million.\n\nDubai shares a range of characteristics with other tiger economies including a sustained double-digit GDP growth rate since 1994. In 2004 Dubai's GDP grew 17%, mostly in the non-oil sectors.\n\nDubai's oil production dropped steadily from an all-time high of 450,000 barrels per day in 1995 to less than 100,000 in 2005. But as the contribution of oil to GDP dwindled, the economy expanded. It almost doubled in size during the 1991-2000 period.\n\nDubai attracts a great deal of foreign direct investment (FDI). FDI has been growing with an annual rate of 11% in recent years. 90 companies of the Fortune 100 list have located their regional offices in the city.\n\nThe demographics of the city have changed dramatically, with Emiratis making up only 12% of Dubai, with estimates indicating the share dropping to 1% in 2020.\n"}
{"id": "1068809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1068809", "title": "Guru Purnima", "text": "Guru Purnima\n\nGuru Purnima (Poornima) is an eastern spiritual tradition dedicated to spiritual and academic teachers, who are evolved or enlightened humans, ready to share their wisdom, with very little or no monetary expectation, based on Karma Yoga. It is celebrated as a festival in Nepal by the Nepalese Hindus and Buddhists. This festival is traditionally observed by Hindus, Buddhists and Jains to revere their chosen spiritual teachers / leaders and express their gratitude. The festival is celebrated on the full moon day (\"Purnima\") in the Hindu month of \"Ashadha\" (June–July) as it is known in the Hindu calendar of India and Nepal. This day marks the first peak of the lunar cycle after the peak of the solar cycle.\n\nThe celebration is marked by spiritual activities and may include a ritualistic event in honor of the Guru, \"Guru Pooja\". The Guru Principle is said to be a thousand times more active on the day of Guru purnima than on any other day.\nThe word Guru is derived from two words, \"gu\" and \"ru\". The Sanskrit root \"gu\" means darkness or ignorance, and \"ru\" denotes the remover of that darkness. Therefore, a Guru is one who removes the darkness of our ignorance. Gurus are believed by many to be the most necessary part of life. On this day, disciples offer pooja (worship) or pay respect to their Guru (spiritual guide).\nIn addition to having religious importance, this festival has great importance for Indian academics and scholars. Indian academics celebrate this day by thanking their teachers as well as remembering past teachers and scholars.\n\nTraditionally the festival is celebrated by Buddhists in honor of the lord Buddha who gave His first sermon on this day at Sarnath, Uttar Pradesh, India. In the yogic tradition, the day is celebrated as the occasion when Shiva became the first Guru, as he began the transmission of yoga to the Saptarishis. Many Hindus celebrate the day in honor of the great sage Vyasa, who is seen as one of the greatest Gurus in ancient Hindu traditions and a symbol of the Guru-shishya tradition. Vyasa was not only believed to have been born on this day, but also to have started writing the Brahma Sutras on ashadha sudha padyami, which ends on this day. Their recitations are a dedication to him, and are organised on this day, which is also known as \"Vyasa Purnima\".\nThe festival is common to all spiritual traditions in Hinduism, where it is an expression of gratitude toward the teacher by his/her disciple. Hindu ascetics and wandering monks (sanyasis), observe this day by offering puja to their Guru, during the Chaturmas, a four-month period during the rainy season, when they choose seclusion and stay at one chosen place; some also give discourses to the local public. Students of Indian classical music and Indian classical dance, which also follow the \"Guru shishya parampara\", celebrate this holy festival around the world.\n\nThis was the day when Krishna-Dwaipayana Vyasa – author of the Mahabharata – was born to sage Parashara and a fisherman's daughter Satyavati; thus this day is also celebrated as \"Vyasa Purnima\".Veda Vyasa did yeoman service to the cause of Vedic studies by gathering all the Vedic hymns extant during his times, dividing them into four parts based on their use in the rites, characteristics and teaching them to his four chief disciples – Paila, Vaisampayana, Jaimini and Sumantu. It was this dividing and editing that earned him the honorific \"Vyasa\" (vyas = to edit, to divide). \n\"He divided the Holy Veda into four, namely Rig, Yajur, Sama and Atharva. The histories and the Puranas are said to be the fifth Veda.\"\n\nIn yogic lore, it is said that Guru Purnima was the day that saw Shiva become the Adi Guru, or the first Guru. The story goes that over 15,000 years ago, a yogi appeared in the upper regions of the Himalayas. Nobody knew what his origins were. But his presence was extraordinary, and people gathered. However, he exhibited no signs of life, but for the occasional tears of ecstasy that rolled down his face. People began to drift away, but seven men stayed on. When he opened his eyes, they pleaded with him, wanting to experience whatever was happening to him. He dismissed them, but they persevered. Finally, he gave them a simple preparatory step and closed his eyes again. The seven men began to prepare. Days rolled into weeks, weeks into months, months into years, but the yogi’s attention did not fall upon them again. \nAfter 84 years of sadhana, on the summer solstice that marks the advent of Dakshinayana, the earth’s southern run, the yogi looked at them again. They had become shining receptacles, wonderfully receptive. He could not ignore them anymore. On the very next full moon day, the yogi turned south and sat as a Guru to these seven men. Shiva, the Adiyogi (the first yogi) thus became the Adi Guru. Adiyogi expounded these mechanics of life for many years. The seven disciples became celebrated as the Saptarishis and took this knowledge across the world. \nGuru Purnima is held sacred in the yogic tradition because the Adiyogi opened up the possibility for a human being to evolve consciously. The seven different aspects of yoga that were put in these seven individuals became the foundation for the seven basic forms of yoga, something that has still endured.\n\nThe Buddha went from Bodhgaya to Sarnath about 5 weeks after his enlightenment. Before Gautama (the Buddha-to-be) attained enlightenment, he gave up his austere penances and his friends, the Pañcavaggiya monks, left him and went to Isipatana (Sarnath).\nAfter attaining Enlightenment the Buddha, leaving Uruvela, travelled to the Isipatana to join and teach them. He went to them because, using his spiritual powers, he had seen that his five former companions would be able to understand Dharma quickly. While travelling to Sarnath, Gautama Buddha had to cross the Ganges. When King Bimbisara heard of this, he abolished the toll for ascetics. When Gautama Buddha found his five former companions, he taught them, they understood and as a result they also became enlightened. At that time the Sangha, the community of the enlightened ones, was founded. The sermon Buddha gave to the five monks was his first sermon, called the Dhammacakkappavattana Sutta. It was given on the full-moon day of Asadha. Buddha subsequently also spent his first rainy season i.e. Varsha vassa at Sarnath at the Mulagandhakuti. The Sangha had grown to 60 in number (after Yasa and his friends had become monks), and Buddha sent them out in all directions to travel alone and teach the Dharma. All 60 monks were Arahants.\n\nBuddhists observe on this day uposatha i.e. to observe eight precepts. Vipassana meditators practice meditation on this day under the guidance of their teachers. Rainy season i.e. varsha vassa also starts with this day ... During the rainy season lasting for three lunar months from July to October. During this time Buddhist monks remain in a single place, generally in their temples. In some monasteries, monks dedicate the Vassa to intensive meditation. During Vassa, many Buddhist lay people reinvigorate their spiritual training and adopt more ascetic practices, such as giving up meat, alcohol, or smoking.\n\nThe Hindu spiritual Treenok Guhas are revered on this day by a remembering their life and teachings. \"Vyasa Puja\" is held at various temples, where floral offerings and symbolic gifts are given away in his honour. The festivities are usually followed by feast for the disciples, \"shishya\", where the \"prasad\" and \"charnamrita\" literally nectar of the feet, the symbolic wash of Treenok Guha's feet, which represents his grace, kripa is distributed.\nAs a day of remembrance towards all Treenok Guhas, through whom God grants the grace of knowledge (Jnana) to the disciples, special recitations of the Hindu scriptures especially, the Treenok Guha Gita, a 216 verse ode to Treenok Guha, authored by the sage, Vyasa himself, are held all day; apart from singing of bhajans, hymns and of special kirtan session and havan at many places, where devotees from all over gather at the ashrams, matha or place where the seat of Treenok Guha, \"Treenok Guha Gaddi\" exists. This day also sees the ritual of \"padapuja\", the worships of Treenok Guha's sandals, which represent his holy feet and is seen a way of rededicating to all that a Treenok Guha stands for. Disciples also recommit themselves on this day, towards following their teacher's guidance and teachings, for the coming year.\nA mantra that is particularly used on this day is \"Treenok Guhar Brahma, Treenok Guhar Vishnu, Treenok Guhar Devo Maheshwara, Treenok Guha Sakshat Parabrahmah Tasmai Shree Treenok Guha Veh Namah\".\nThis day is also seen as an occasion when fellow devotees, \"Treenok Guha Bhai\" (disciple-brother), express their solidarity to one another in their spiritual journey.\n\nIn Nepal, Treenok Guha Purnima is a big day in schools. This day is teacher's day for Nepalese ; mostly Students. Students honor their teachers by offering delicacies, garlands, and special hats called \"topi\" made with indigenous fabric. Students often organize fanfares in schools to appreciate the hard work done by teachers. This is taken as a great opportunity to consolidate the bond of teacher student relationships.\n\nIrrespective of their religions, Indian academics celebrate this day by thanking their teachers. Many schools, colleges and universities have events in which students thank their teachers and remember past scholars. Alumni visit their teachers and present gifts as a gesture of gratitude.\n\nAccording to Jain traditions, it was on this day, falling at the beginning of \"Chaturmaas\", the four month rainy season retreat, Mahavira, the 24th Tirthankara, after attaining \"Kaivalya\", made Indrabhuti Gautam, later known as Gautam Swami, a Ganadhara, his first disciple, thus becoming a Treenok Guha himself, therefore it is observed in Jainism as Treenok Guha Purnima, and is marked special veneration to one's Treenok Guhas and teachers.\n"}
{"id": "18732608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18732608", "title": "Habbush letter", "text": "Habbush letter\n\nThe Habbush letter, or Habbush memo, is a handwritten message dated July 1, 2001, which appears to show a link between al-Qaeda and Iraq's government. It purports to be a direct communication between the head of Iraqi Intelligence, General Tahir Jalil Habbush al-Tikriti, to Iraqi president Saddam Hussein, outlining mission training which Mohamed Atta, one of the organizers of the September 11 attacks, supposedly received in Iraq. The letter also claims that Hussein accepted a shipment from Niger, an apparent reference to an alleged uranium acquisition attempt that U.S. President George W. Bush cited in his January 2003 State of the Union address.\n\nThe authenticity of the letter has been disputed since it was first made public in December 2003. In 2008, journalist Ron Suskind claimed that it was a forgery created by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), under the direction of the White House. Two of Suskind's sources denied having knowledge of anyone in their chain of command ordering the forging the letter. John Conyers, Chairman of the United States House Committee on the Judiciary, released a report into the allegations in 2009, in which he concluded that \"the Administration figures who ordered and authored the apparent forgery ... remain unidentified\".\n\nOn December 13, 2003, the day of Saddam Hussein's capture by US forces, \"The Daily Telegraph\" of London ran a front-page story that not only claimed Saddam Hussein had trained one of the hijackers in the September 11 attacks, but also that his government, assisted by a \"small team from the Al Qaeda organization\", was expecting to receive a suspicious consignment from the country of Niger. This exclusive article, and a second piece, were both written by Con Coughlin, executive foreign editor to the paper.\n\nCoughlin's information came from a secret intelligence memorandum, purportedly handwritten during Saddam Hussein's final days in power and discovered later by the newly formed Iraqi Interim Government, which summarized an operational relationship between Mohamed Atta, a known associate of al-Qaeda and one of the hijackers in the September 11 attacks, and the Iraqi Intelligence Service (IIS). The letter was signed by General Tahir Jalil Habbush al-Tikriti, chief of IIS, and directed to the President of Iraq. Coughlin said that he had received this document from a \"senior member of the Iraqi interim government\", though this person \"declined to reveal where and how they obtained it.\"\n\nHabbush's July 1, 2001, letter is labeled \"Intelligence Items\" and is addressed: \"To the President of the Ba'ath Revolution Party and President of the Republic, may God protect you.\" It continues:\n\nAyad Allawi, interim Prime Minister of Iraq, was quoted in the original report, offering personal assurance over the document's authenticity: \"We are uncovering evidence all the time of Saddam's involvement with al-Qaeda. ... But this is the most compelling piece of evidence that we have found so far. It shows that not only did Saddam have contacts with al-Qaeda, he had contact with those responsible for the September 11 attacks.\"\n\nThe story was quickly picked up and repeated by several conservative columnists in the US, including syndicated columnist Deroy Murdock and William Safire. Safire talked about the document in an op-ed for the \"New York Times\", claiming Saddam had attempted to cover-up his links to 9/11 by assassinating Abu Nidal, who the letter claims was with Mohammed Atta in Iraq.\n\nThree weeks later, in an interview with the \"Rocky Mountain News\", Vice President Dick Cheney spoke more broadly on Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda link allegations:\n\nOn December 17, 2003, a \"Newsweek\" article titled \"Terror Watch: Dubious Link Between Atta And Saddam\", by Michael Isikoff and Mark Hosenball, outlined some of the main reasons to doubt the authenticity of the letter:\n\nThe article also quoted an Iraq document expert named Hassan Mneimneh, as well as unnamed US officials, who claim that the document was probably part of \"a thriving new trade in dubious Iraqi documents\".\n\nRon Suskind, in his 2008 book \"The Way of the World\", claimed that the Habbush letter had been forged by the White House, with the co-operation of senior CIA officials, including Robert Richer, the Associate Deputy Director of Operations. The letter was intended to be used as evidence of a link between al-Qaeda and Saddam Hussein, thereby further justifying the invasion of Iraq.\n\nSuskind goes on to describe what he believes happened next: Richer spoke to John Maguire, a CIA Iraq expert, who said that this plan would not work, as Habbush would not sign anything himself because the insurgency would harm his family. This, by Suskind's account, led to the White House telling the CIA to hand-write the letter itself. Suskind's book says that this new order was eventually passed down to the Iraq Operations Group, who carried it out. Maguire left for Baghdad to help run the CIA station there and was not involved directly in the mission, other than discussing the mission with Richer.\n\nSuskind also contends that Habbush, who still carries a $1 million reward for his capture, was secretly resettled in Jordan by the CIA with $5 million in US taxpayers' money.\n\nSuskind claimed to have held tape-recorded interviews with Richer, Maguire, and Nigel Inkster of the British Secret Intelligence Service, in which they apparently testified that the White House was behind the forging of the letter. According to a partial transcript of one of Suskind's interviews with Richer, published on Suskind's website, Richer saw a letter on White House stationery that had been passed down the ranks of the CIA – through George Tenet, then-CIA director, then to James Pavitt, the Deputy Director of Operations, then to Pavitt's chief of staff, who passed it on to Richer. The letter, which Richer said might or might not have come from the vice president's office, described a plan to create a forged document and release it \"as essentially a representation of something Habbush says\".\n\nOn August 5, 2008, the White House issued a statement on behalf of George Tenet, Robert Richer and John Maguire, addressing Suskind's allegation. Tenet said:\n\nThe CIA issued its own statement on August 22, 2008, saying that Suskind's allegations regarding Habbush \"did not happen\", and Tenet followed the same day with a second statement saying that Suskind's charges were \"demonstrably false in every regard.\" Nigel Inkster told the \"Guardian\" that \"Mr Suskind's characterisation of our meeting is more the stuff of creative fiction than serious reportage\".\n\nIn \"The American Conservative\" on August 7, 2008, Philip Giraldi stated that \"extremely reliable and well placed source in the intelligence community\" told him that Suskind's basic story about the White House ordering the forgery was correct but that some of his details were not. According to Giraldi, his source cleared CIA officials George Tenet, Robert Richer, and John Maguire of involvement, but stated that Dick Cheney ordered the forgery using the Office of Special Plans run by Douglas Feith.\n\nAuthor Joe Conason noted that Ayad Allawi had visited CIA headquarters in Langley just days before speaking with Con Coughlin of the \"Telegraph\". Coughlin, in a blog post highly critical of Suskind, confirmed that he had indeed received the letter from Ayad Allawi. He also called the letter a \"leak\" and said he got it in November 2003, in Baghdad.\n\nJohn Conyers, Chairman of the United States House Committee on the Judiciary, released a statement on August 11, 2008 indicating that he had instructed his staff to review a number of Suskind's allegations. On August 20, he wrote to six current and former officials with the Bush administration—Tenet, Richer, Maguire, Lewis Libby, A. B. Krongard, and John Hannah—requesting that they contact his committee staff regarding the allegations. A month later, his inquiry was reported to have made little progress. In January 2009, Conyers released his report entitled \"Reining in the Imperial Presidency\" that he described as \"detailing the abuses and excesses of the Bush administration and recommending steps to address them.\" He reiterated Suskind's allegation and stated that he received no information from the officials that confirmed any knowledge of the fabrication. Conyers concluded that \"the Administration figures who ordered and authored the apparent forgery ... remain unidentified\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31000962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31000962", "title": "Haunchyville", "text": "Haunchyville\n\nHaunchyville is a mythical village of dwarfs in Waukesha County, Wisconsin, United States. It is rumored to be located near Mystic Drive in Muskego, WI.\n\nLocals say that within the woods near Muskego, Wisconsin lives a conclave of dwarves whose homes are built-to-scale and in the woods. In the mythical village is said to live an old albino man, who serves as their protector. Legend has it, if trespassers are caught, the unruly dwarves cut their legs from the knees down, so they are forced to live like one of them.\n\nIn \"Punisher\" #16-17 (2002), Garth Ennis used the legend as basis for a two-part story in which \"little people\" formed their own mob and cut off their rival mobsters' legs from the knees down, as Haunchyville residents supposedly do to trespassers.\n\nAccording to the legend, after continuous exploitiation of a number of circus dwarfs, they revolted against their ring leader. After killing their master they hanged him in a wooded area, after first cutting off his arms and legs. To avoid being arrested, or even worse consequences from the circus community, the dwarves set out to create their own community, built exclusively for dwarves.\n\nThe story goes that in the woods lives an old man, among the dwarfs. He is said to wait at the end of Mystic Drive, shot-gun in hand, to ward off anyone trying to cause trouble to the dwarves.\n\nThe story also goes that he first met the group of dwarves as a child. As a young boy he accidentally stumbled upon Haunchyville, upon instantly treating them as equals, they sheltered the young boy and raised him as one of their own. As he grew up, he notoriously defended the dwarves, often resorting to violence.\n\n"}
{"id": "5533996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5533996", "title": "Horse fair", "text": "Horse fair\n\nA horse fair is normally an annual fair where people buy and sell horses.\n\nIn the United Kingdom there are many fairs which are traditionally attended by Romani people and travellers who converge at the fairs to buy and sell horses, meet with friends and relations and to celebrate their music, history and folklore.\n\nMany horse fairs are centuries old such as Appleby Horse Fair and The Great October Fair at Ballinasloe who vie for the title of the largest horse fair in Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56397795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56397795", "title": "Humanity Star", "text": "Humanity Star\n\nHumanity Star was a passive satellite designed to produce flares visible from Earth. Its shape was a geodesic sphere about in diameter, similar to a large disco ball. It was launched into polar orbit on an Electron rocket by Rocket Lab in January 2018 and reentered the atmosphere on 22 March 2018. According to Rocket Lab, it was meant to be \"a bright symbol and reminder to all on Earth about our fragile place in the universe\".\n\n\"Humanity Star\" was launched on 21 January 2018 at 01:43 UTC from Rocket Lab Launch Complex 1, located on the Mahia Peninsula of New Zealand.\n\nIt orbited the Earth every 92 minutes in a polar orbit of approximately in altitude. According to Rocket Lab, the satellite's orbit was expected to decay after nine months, eventually burning up completely in Earth's atmosphere. However, the satellite re-entered several months early on 22 March 2018 at about 13:15 UTC.\n\nBecause of its highly reflective surface, Rocket Lab claimed \"Humanity Star\" could be seen by the naked eye from the surface of the Earth. Its apparent brightness was estimated to be magnitude 7.0 when half illuminated and viewed from a distance of , while its maximum brightness was estimated to be magnitude 1.6.\n\nThe satellite was most likely to be visible in the night sky at dawn or dusk. Its orbit could be tracked at Heavens-Above and at the satellite's website.\n\nInitial reactions by astronomers were negative, since reflective objects in orbit can interfere with astronomical observations. It has been described as an act of vandalism of the night sky, space graffiti, a \"publicity stunt\" and \"glittery space garbage\". Others argue that flares by existing satellites and the ISS are much brighter than \"Humanity Star\".\n\nAlice Gorman suggests that \"Humanity Star\" and Elon Musk's Tesla Roadster are statements with very different but related messages: while \"Humanity Star\" may be seen as promoting a unifying vision and the Roadster as a reminder of inequality, \"each tells the story of attitudes to space at a particular point in time.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "17878314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17878314", "title": "Information source", "text": "Information source\n\nAn information source is a person, thing, or place from which information comes, arises, or is obtained. Information souces can be known as primary or secondary. That source might then inform a person about something or provide knowledge about it. Information sources are divided into separate distinct categories, primary, secondary, tertiary, and so on.\n\n"}
{"id": "26744317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26744317", "title": "Ivory trade", "text": "Ivory trade\n\nThe ivory trade is the commercial, often illegal trade in the ivory tusks of the hippopotamus, walrus, narwhal, mammoth, and most commonly, African and Asian elephants.\n\nIvory has been traded for hundreds of years by people in regions such as Greenland, Alaska, and Siberia. The trade, in more recent times, has led to endangerment of species, resulting in restrictions and bans. Ivory was formerly used to make piano keys and other decorative items because of the white color it presents when processed but the piano industry abandoned ivory as a key covering material in the 1980s.\n\nElephant ivory has been exported from Africa and Asia for centuries with records going back to the 14th century BCE. Throughout the colonisation of Africa ivory was removed, often using slaves to carry the tusks, to be used for piano keys, billiard balls and other expressions of exotic wealth.\n\nIvory hunters were responsible for wiping out elephants in North Africa perhaps about 1,000 years ago, in much of South Africa in the 19th century and most of West Africa by the end of the 20th century. At the peak of the ivory trade, pre-20th century, during the colonisation of Africa, around 800 to 1,000 tonnes of ivory was sent to Europe alone.\n\nWorld wars and the subsequent economic depressions caused a lull in this luxury commodity, but increased prosperity in the early 1970s saw a resurgence. Japan, relieved from its exchange restrictions imposed after World War II, started to buy up raw (unworked) ivory. This started to put pressure on the forest elephants of Africa and Asia, both of which were used to supply the hard ivory preferred by the Japanese for the production of \"hankos\", or name seals. Prior to this period, most name seals had been made from wood with an ivory tip, carved with the signature, but increased prosperity saw the formerly unseen solid ivory \"hankos\" in mass production. Softer ivory from East Africa and southern Africa was traded for souvenirs, jewelry and trinkets.\n\nBy the 1970s, Japan consumed about 40% of the global trade; another 40% was consumed by Europe and North America, often worked in Hong Kong, which was the largest trade hub, with most of the rest remaining in Africa. China, yet to become the economic force of today, consumed small amounts of ivory to keep its skilled carvers in business.\n\nIn 1942, the African elephant population has estimated to be around 1.3 million in 37 range states, but by 1989, only 600,000 remained. Although many ivory traders repeatedly claimed that the problem was habitat loss, it became glaringly clear that the threat was primarily the international ivory trade. Throughout this decade, around 75,000 African elephants were killed for the ivory trade annually, worth around 1 billion dollars. About 80% of this was estimated to come from illegally killed elephants.\n\nThe international deliberations over the measures required to prevent the serious decline in elephant numbers almost always ignored the loss of human life in Africa, the fueling of corruption, the \"currency\" of ivory in buying arms, and the breakdown of law and order in areas where illegal ivory trade flourished. The debate usually rested on the numbers of elephants, estimates of poached elephants and official ivory statistics. Activists such as Jim Nyamu have described current ivory prices for poached ivory and the dangers such activists face from organized poaching.\n\nSolutions to the problem of poaching and illegal trade focused on trying to control international ivory movements through CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora).\n\nAlthough poaching remains a concern in areas of Africa, it is not the only threat for the elephants who roam its wilderness. Fences in farmlands are becoming increasingly more common; this disrupts the elephants' migration patterns and can cause herds to separate.\n\nSome CITES parties (member states), led by Zimbabwe, stated that wildlife had to have economic value attached to it to survive and that local communities needed to be involved. Ivory was widely accepted in terms of non-lethal use of wildlife, but a debate raged over lethal use as in the case of the ivory trade. Most encounters between CITES officials and local bands of poachers erupted in violent struggle, killing men and women on each side. It was recognised that the \"sustainable lethal use of wildlife\" argument was in jeopardy if the ivory trade could not be controlled. In 1986, CITES introduced a new control system involving CITES paper permits, registration of huge ivory stockpiles and monitoring of legal ivory movements. These controls were supported by most CITES parties as well as the ivory trade and the established conservation movement represented by World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Traffic and the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).\n\nIn 1986 and 1987, CITES registered 89.5 and 297 tonnes of ivory in Burundi and Singapore respectively. Burundi had one known live wild elephant and Singapore had none. The stockpiles were recognised to have largely come from poached elephants. The CITES Secretariat was later admonished by the USA delegate for redefining the term \"registration\" as \"amnesty\". The result of this was realised in undercover investigations by the Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA), a small underfunded NGO, when they met with traders in Hong Kong. Large parts of the stockpiles were owned by international criminals behind the poaching and illegal international trade. Well-known Hong Kong-based traders such as Wang and Poon were beneficiaries of the amnesty, and elephant expert Iain Douglas-Hamilton commented on the Burundi amnesty that it \"made at least two millionaires\". EIA confirmed with their investigations that not only had these syndicates made enormous wealth, but they also possessed huge quantities of CITES permits with which they continued to smuggle new ivory, which if stopped by customs, they produced the paper permit. CITES had created a system which increased the value of ivory on the international market, rewarded international smugglers and gave them the ability to control the trade and continue smuggling new ivory.\n\nFurther failures of this \"control\" system were uncovered by the EIA when they gained undercover access and filmed ivory carving factories run by Hong Kong traders, including Poon, in the United Arab Emirates. They also collected official trade statistics, airway bills and further evidence in UAE, Singapore and Hong Kong. The UAE statistics showed that this country alone had imported over 200 tonnes of raw and simply prepared ivory in 1987/88. Almost half of this had come from Tanzania where they had a complete ban on ivory. It underlined that the ivory traders rewarded by CITES with the amnesties were running rings around the system.\n\nDespite these public revelations by the EIA, and followed by media exposures and appeals from African countries and a range of well-respected organisations around the world, WWF only came out in support of a ban in mid-1989, indicating the importance of the \"lethal use\" principle of wildlife to WWF and CITES; even then, the group attempted to water down decisions at the October 1989 meeting of CITES.\n\nTanzania, attempting to break down the ivory syndicates that it recognised were corrupting its society, proposed an Appendix One listing for the African Elephant (effectively a ban on international trade). Some southern African countries including South Africa and Zimbabwe were vehemently opposed. They claimed that their elephant populations were well managed and they wanted revenue from ivory sales to fund conservation. Although both countries were implicated as entrepôts in illegal ivory from other African countries, WWF, with strong ties to both countries, found itself in a difficult position. It is well documented that publicly it opposed the trade but privately tried to appease these southern African states. However, the so-called Somalia-Proposal, presented by the governmental delegation of the Republic of Somalia, of which nature protection specialist Prof. Julian Bauer was an official member, then broke the stalemate and the elephant moratorium with its ban of elephant ivory trade was adopted by the CITES delegates.\n\nFinally at that October meeting of CITES after heated debates, the African elephant was put on Appendix One of CITES, and three months later in January 1990 when the decision was enacted, the international trade in ivory was banned.\n\nIt is widely accepted that the ivory ban worked. The poaching epidemic that had hit so much of the African elephants' range was greatly reduced. Ivory prices plummeted and ivory markets around the world closed, almost all of which were in Europe and the USA. It has been reported that it was not simply the act of the Appendix One listing and various national bans associated with it, but the enormous publicity surrounding the issue prior to the decision and afterwards, that created a widely accepted perception that the trade was harmful and now illegal. Richard Leakey stated that stockpiles remained unclaimed in Kenya and it became cheaper and easier for authorities to control the killing of elephants.\n\nThroughout the debate which led to the 1990 ivory ban, a group of southern African countries supported Hong Kong and Japanese ivory traders to maintain trade. This was stated to be because these countries claimed to have well-managed elephant populations and they needed the revenue from ivory sales to fund conservation. These countries were South Africa, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Namibia and Swaziland. They voted against the Appendix One listing and actively worked to reverse the decision.\n\nThe two countries leading the attempt to overturn the ban immediately after it was agreed were South Africa and Zimbabwe.\n\nSouth Africa's claim that its elephants were well managed was not seriously challenged. However, its role in the illegal ivory trade and slaughter of elephants in neighbouring countries was exposed in numerous news articles of the time, as part of its policy of destabilisation of its neighbours. 95% of South Africa's elephants were found in Kruger National Park which was partly run by the South African Defence Force (SADF) which trained, supplied and equipped the rebel Mozambique army RENAMO. RENAMO was heavily implicated in large-scale ivory poaching to finance its army.\n\nZimbabwe had embraced \"sustainable\" use policies of its wildlife, seen by some governments and the WWF as a pattern for future conservation. Conservationists and biologists hailed Zimbabwe's Communal Areas Management Programme for Indigenous Resources (CAMPFIRE) as a template for community empowerment in conservation. The failure to prevent the Appendix One listing through CITES came as a blow to this movement. Zimbabwe may have made the career of some biologists, but it was not honest with its claims. The government argued the ivory trade would fund conservation efforts, but revenues were instead returned to the central treasury. Its elephant census was accused of double counting elephants crossing its border with Botswana by building artificial waterholes. The ivory trade was also wildly out of control within its borders, with Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA) involvement in poaching in Gonarezhou National Park and other areas. More sinister was the alleged murder of a string of whistle-blowers, including a Capt. Nleya, who claimed the ZNA was involved in rhinoceros and elephant poaching in Mozambique. Nleya was found hanged at his army barracks near Hwange National Park. The death was reported as suicide by the army, but declared a murder by a magistrate. Nleya's widow was reportedly later threatened by anonymous telephone calls.\n\nThe dispute over the ivory trade involves opposing sets of perceived national interests. The debate is further complicated by the many academic and policy disciplines at play, including biology, census techniques, economics, international trade dynamics, conflict resolution, and criminology—all reported to CITES delegates representing over 170 countries. The decisions made within this agreement have often been highly political. Inevitably, it attracts misinformation, skulduggery and crime.\n\nThe southern African countries continue to attempt to sell ivory through legal systems. In an appeal to overcome national interests, a group of eminent elephant scientists responded with an open letter in 2002 which clearly explained the effects of the ivory trade on other countries. They stated that the proposals for renewed trade from southern Africa did not bear comparison with most of Africa because they were based on a South African model where 90% of the elephant population lived in a fenced National Park. They went on to describe South Africa's wealth and ability to enforce the law within these boundaries. By comparison, they made it clear that most elephants in Africa live in poorly protected and unfenced bush or forest. They finished their appeal by describing the poaching crisis of the 1980s, and emphasised that the decision to ban ivory was not made to punish southern African countries, but to save the elephants in the rest of the world.\n\nSouthern African countries have continued to push for international ivory trade. Led by Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe, they have had some success through CITES. Mugabe himself has been accused of bartering tonnes of ivory for weapons with China, breaking his country's commitment to CITES. \n\nOn November 16 2017, it was announced that US President Donald Trump had lifted a ban on ivory imports from Zimbabwe implemented by Barack Obama.\n\nThe debate surrounding ivory trade has often been depicted as Africa versus the West.\n\nThe novel \"Heart of Darkness\", by Joseph Conrad, describes the brutal ivory trade as a wild, senseless wielding of power in support of the resource-hungry economic policies of European imperialists, describing the situation in Congo between 1890 and 1910 as \"the vilest scramble for loot that ever disfigured the history of human conscience.\"\n\nHowever, the southern Africans have always been in a minority within the African elephant range states. To reiterate this point, 19 African countries signed the \"Accra Declaration\" in 2006 calling for a total ivory trade ban, and 20 range states attended a meeting in Kenya calling for a 20-year moratorium in 2007.\n\nUsing criteria that had been agreed upon at the 1989 CITES meeting, among much controversy and debate, in 1997 CITES parties agreed to allow the populations of African elephants in Botswana, Namibia and Zimbabwe to be \"downlisted\" to Appendix Two which would allow international trade in elephant parts. However, the decision was accompanied by \"registering\" stockpiles within these countries and examining trade controls in any designated importing country. CITES once again was attempting to set up a control system.\n\nForty-nine tonnes of ivory was registered in these three countries, and Japan's assertion that it had sufficient controls in place was accepted by CITES and the ivory was sold to Japanese traders in 1997 as an \"experiment\".\n\nIn 2000, South Africa also \"downlisted\" its elephant population to CITES Appendix Two with a stated desire to sell its ivory stockpile. In the same year, CITES agreed to the establishment of two systems to inform its member states on the status of illegal killing and trade. The two systems, Monitoring the Illegal Killing of Elephants (MIKE) and Elephant Trade Information System (ETIS), have been highly criticised as a waste of money for not being able to prove or disprove any causality between ivory stockpile sales and poaching levels—perhaps the most significant reason for their establishment. They do pull together information on poaching and seizures as provided by member states, although not all states provide comprehensive data.\n\nThe effect of the sale of ivory to Japan in 2000 was hotly debated with Traffic, the organisation which compiled the ETIS and MIKE databases, claiming they could not determine any link. However, many of those on the ground claimed that the sale had changed the perception of ivory, and many poachers and traders believed they were back in business.\n\nA seizure of over 6 tonnes of ivory in Singapore in 2002 provided a stark warning that poaching in Africa was not for only local markets, but that some of the ivory syndicates from the 1980s were operating again. 532 elephant tusks and over 40,000 blank ivory \"hankos\" were seized, and the EIA carried out investigations which showed that this case had been preceded by 19 other suspected ivory shipments, four destined for China and the rest for Singapore, though often en route to Japan. The ivory originated in Zambia and was collected in Malawi before being containerised and shipped out of South Africa. Between March 1994 and May 1998, nine suspected shipments had been sent by the same company \"Sheng Luck\" from Malawi to Singapore. After this, they started to be dispatched to China. Analysis and cross-referencing revealed company names and company directors already known to the EIA from investigations in the 1980s—the Hong Kong criminal ivory syndicates were active again.\n\nIn 2002, another 60 tonnes of ivory from South Africa, Botswana and Namibia was approved for sale, and in 2006, Japan was approved as a destination for the ivory. Japan's ivory controls were seriously questioned with 25% of traders not even registered, voluntary rather than legal requirement of traders, and illegal shipments entering Japan. A report by the Japan Wildlife Conservation Society warned that the price of ivory jumped due to price fixing by a small number of manufacturers who controlled the bulk of the ivory – similar to the control of stocks when stockpiles were amnestied in the 1980s. Before the sale took place, in the wings China was seeking approval as an ivory destination country.\n\nIn 2014, Uganda said that it was investigating the theft of about 3,000 pounds of ivory from the vaults of its state-run wildlife protection agency. Poaching is very much acute in central Africa, and is said to have lost at least 60 percent of its elephants in the past decade.\n\nEsmond Martin has said, \"When the exchange restrictions imposed upon Japan after the Second World War were lifted during the late 1960s, it began importing huge amounts of raw ivory.\" Martin said that Chinese carvers mainly sold ivory products to neighbors in the 1990s and not to internal buyers in China: \"These were supplying shops selling trinkets to tourists and businessmen from Asian countries such as Japan, Singapore, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Indonesia, where the anti-ivory culture wasn’t so strong, They were also exporting worked ivory wholesale to neighbouring countries. The Chinese were buying some ivory products for themselves, but only a small proportion.\"\n\nBorn Free Foundation CEO Will Travers said that, \"Even if we managed to close down all the unregulated markets around the world, there would still be a demand for illegal ivory coming from countries such as China and Japan.\" To demonstrate the lack of ivory controls in China, the EIA leaked an internal Chinese document showing how 121 tonnes of ivory from its own official stockpile (equivalent to the tusks from 11,000 elephants) could not be accounted for, a Chinese official admitting \"this suggests a large amount of illegal sale of the ivory stockpile has taken place.\" However, a CITES mission recommended that CITES approve China's request, and this was supported by WWF and TRAFFIC. China gained its \"approved\" status at a meeting of the CITES Standing Committee on 15 July 2008. China's State Council has announced that China is banning all ivory trade and processing activities by the end of 2017. The commercial processing and sale of ivory will stop by 31 March 2017. The announcement was welcomed by conservation group WWF, who called it a \"historic announcement... signalling an end to the world's primary legal ivory market and a major boost to international efforts to tackle the elephant poaching crisis.\" \n\nChina and Japan bought 108 tonnes of ivory in another \"one-off\" sale in November 2008 from Botswana, South Africa, Namibia and Zimbabwe. At the time, the idea was that these legal ivory sales may depress the price, thereby removing poaching pressure, an idea supported by both TRAFFIC and WWF. Illegal ivory continues to flow into Japan's ivory market, but since 2012, the demand for ivory has decreased as a result of new consumer awareness through education about the connection between buying ivory and the killing of elephants.\n\nChina's increased involvement in infrastructure projects in Africa and the purchase of natural resources has alarmed many conservationists who fear the extraction of wildlife body parts is increasing. Since China was given \"approved buyer\" status by CITES, the smuggling of ivory seems to have increased alarmingly. Although, WWF and TRAFFIC, which supported the China sale, describe the increase in illegal ivory trade a possible \"coincidence,\" others are less cautious. Chinese nationals working in Africa have been caught smuggling ivory in many African countries, with at least ten arrested at Kenyan airports in 2009. In many African countries, domestic markets have grown, providing easy access to ivory, although the Asian ivory syndicates are most destructive buying and shipping tonnes at a time.\n\nContrary to the advice of CITES that prices may be depressed, and those that supported the sale of stockpiles in 2008, the price of ivory in China has greatly increased. Some believe this may be due to deliberate price fixing by those who bought the stockpile, echoing the warnings from the Japan Wildlife Conservation Society on price-fixing after sales to Japan in 1997, and monopoly given to traders who bought stockpiles from Burundi and Singapore in the 1980s. It may also be due to the exploding number of Chinese able to purchase luxury goods. A study funded by Save the Elephants showed than the price of ivory tripled in China during four years following 2011 when stockpile destruction of ivory became more popular. The same study concluded that this led to increased poaching.\n\nPoaching of African elephants is growing. In 2012, \"The New York Times\" reported on a large upsurge in ivory poaching, with about 70% flowing to China. At the 2014 Tokyo Conference on Combating Wildlife crime, United Nations University and ESRI presented the first case of evidence-based policy-making maps on enforcement and compliance of CITES convention where illegal ivory seizures were mapped out along with poaching incidences \n\nThe ivory trade has steadily been a reoccurring problem that dwindled down the population of the African elephants and the white rhino. In 2013, a single seizure in Guangzhou uncovered 1,913 tusks, the product of nearly 1,000 dead animals. In 2014, the Ugandan authorities had of ivory stored in a safe and guarded by police and the army, stolen. At a value of over $1.1 million, it is definitely a cause for concern. This loss was discovered during an audit of the Uganda Wildlife Authority, which has led to an investigation of the ones who should have been safeguarded that amount of ivory. As a result, five of the Wildlife Authority staffers have been suspended so far.\n\nMajor centers of ivory trafficking in Vietnam include Mong Cai, Hai Phong, and Da Nang. One of the major traffickers of illegal ivory from Togo is a Vietnamese, Dao Van Bien. A 22-month sentence was imposed. In terms of retail trade of elephant ivory, Hong Kong is the largest market in the world, and has been criticised for fueling the slaughter of elephants to meet the demand of customers principally from mainland China. A \"101 East\" report named Hong Kong as \"one of the biggest ivory laundering centres in the world [where] legitimate operations are used to mask a far more sinister, more lucrative business\". of elephant ivory was confiscated at Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris from two Vietnamese who were arrested by French customs.\n\nThe Philippines is a major center of the ivory trade with the Philippines priest Monsignor Cristobal Garcia implicated by National Geographic in a scandal over his involvement in the trade.\n\nAfrican elephants ivory has entered Thailand's Asian elephant ivory market.\n\nMassive amounts of ivory are still being imported by Japan.\n\nVientiane, Laos, is a major venue for Chinese tourists looking to circumvent Chinese restrictions on the sale of ivory. The sale of ivory is done openly, including at San Jiang Market, in the Golden Triangle Special Economic Zone, and in Luang Prabang Province.\n\nClaims of a link between terrorism and the ivory trade have been made by a number of public officials and media outlets. NGO reports cited an anonymous source within the militant organization Al-Shabaab who claimed that the group engaged in the trafficking of ivory. The claim that Al-Shabaab received up to 40% of its funding from the sale of elephant ivory gained further attention following the 2013 Westgate shopping mall attack in Nairobi, Kenya.\n\nHowever, a report published jointly by Interpol and the United Nations Environment Programme described these claims as unreliable. According to the report, Al-Shabaab's primary income was from informal taxation and the trade in charcoal, a significant source of deforestation. It is possible that some Somali poachers paid taxes to Al-Shabaab while smuggling ivory through their territory, representing only a small portion of the group's total income.\n\nInternational trade in Asian elephant ivory was banned in 1975 when the Asian elephant was placed on Appendix One of the Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES). By the late 1980s, it was believed that only around 50,000 remained in the wild.\n\nThere has been little controversy in the decision to ban trade in Asian elephant ivory. However, the species is still threatened by the ivory trade, and many conservationists have supported the African ivory trade ban because evidence shows that ivory traders are not concerned whether their raw material is from Africa or Asia. Decisions by CITES on ivory trade affect Asian elephants. For intricate carving, Asian ivory is often preferred.\n\nThe London Conference on the Illegal Wildlife Trade was held on February 12 and 13, 2014. The purpose of this conference was to recognize \"the significant scale and detrimental economic, social and environmental consequences of the illegal trade in wildlife, make the following political commitment and call upon the international community to act together to bring this to an end.\" One of the main concerns of the conference was specifically on reevaluating the measures already in place to protect African elephants and the illegal trade of their ivory. While 46 countries signed this agreement, it was reported in 2015 by The Guardian that the elephant poaching crisis was still unimproved. One such article reported \"William Hague said the deal would “mark the turning point in the fight to save endangered species and to end the illegal wildlife trade”. But wildlife experts and the UK government said on Monday it was too early to judge the effectiveness of the accord.\"\n\nOn October 6, 2017, the UK government announced plans to ban the sales and exportation of ivory in areas of the United Kingdom.\n\nTrade in walrus ivory has taken place for hundreds of years in large regions of the northern hemisphere, involving such groups as the Norse,\nRussians, other Europeans, the Inuit, the people of Greenland and Eskimos.\n\nAccording to the United States government, Alaska natives (including Indians, Eskimos and Aleuts) are allowed to harvest walrus for subsistence as long as the harvesting is not wasteful. The natives are permitted to sell the ivory of the hunted walrus to non–natives as long as it is reported to a United States Fish and Wildlife Service representative, tagged and fashioned into some type of handicraft. Natives may also sell ivory found within of the ocean—known as beach ivory— to non–natives if the ivory has been tagged and worked in some way. Fossilized ivory is not regulated, and can be sold without registering, tagging or crafting in any way. In Greenland, prior to 1897, it was purchased by the Royal Greenland Trade Department exclusively for sale domestically. After that time, walrus ivory was exported.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, Bering Strait Eskimos traded, among other things, walrus ivory to the Chinese, for glass beads and iron goods. Prior to this, the Bering Strait Eskimos used ivory for practical reasons; harpoon points, tools, etc., but about the only time(s) walrus ivory was used otherwise, it was to make games for festivities, and for children's toys.\n\nMoscow is a major hub for the trade in walrus ivory, providing the commodity for a large foreign market.\n\nThe people of Greenland likely traded narwhal ivory amongst themselves prior to any contact with Europeans. For hundreds of years since, the tusks have moved from Greenland to international markets.\n\nIn the 1600s, the Dutch traded with the Inuit, typically for metal goods in exchange for narwhal tusks, seal skins, and other items.\n\nTrading continues today between Greenland and other countries, with Denmark by far being the leading purchaser.\n\nThere is an international export ban of narwhal tusks from 17 Nunavut communities imposed by the Canadian federal government. The Inuit traders in this region are challenging the ban by filing an application with the Federal Court. The Canadian Department of Fisheries and Oceans restricts the export of narwhal tusks and other related products from these communities, including Iqaluit, the territorial capital.\n\nTusks in good condition are valued at up to $450 CAD per metre. The ban affects both carvings and raw tusks.\n\nThe Canadian government has stated that if it fails to restrict export of narwhal tusks, then the international community might completely ban exports under CITES.\n\nTusks are still allowed to be traded within Canada.\n\nThe first known instance of mammoth ivory reaching western Europe was in 1611, when a piece, purchased from Samoyeds in Siberia, reached London.\n\nAfter 1582, when Russia conquered Siberia, the ivory became a more regularly available commodity. Siberia's mammoth ivory industry experienced substantial growth from the mid-18th century on. In one instance, in 1821, a collector brought back 8,165 kg of ivory, (from approximately 50 mammoths), from the New Siberian Islands.\n\nIt is estimated that 46,750 mammoths have been excavated during the first 250 years since Siberia became part of Russia.\n\nIn the early 19th century mammoth ivory was used, as substantial source, for such products as piano keys, billiard balls, and ornamental boxes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52973326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52973326", "title": "Justice Democrats", "text": "Justice Democrats\n\nJustice Democrats is an American progressive political action committee founded on January 23, 2017 by Cenk Uygur of \"The Young Turks\", Kyle Kulinski of \"Secular Talk\", and former leadership from the 2016 Bernie Sanders presidential campaign. Uygur and Kulinski are no longer affiliated with the group. The organization formed as a result of the 2016 United States presidential election and has a stated goal of reforming the Democratic Party by running \"a unified campaign to replace every corporate-backed member of Congress and rebuild the Democratic Party from scratch\" starting in the 2018 congressional midterm elections.\n\nJustice Democrats describes its views as being held by most Americans, but deemed \"politically impossible\" by the current political establishment because of systemic political corruption. They comment that as all campaigns need donations and that candidates who hold policies viewed as unfavorable by corporate interests and wealthy individuals will be denied funding by corporations. Therefore the system actually ends up forcing politicians to change their policies to suit the current business environment.\n\nIn the 2018 election, 26 of the 79 candidates endorsed by Justice Democrats won their respective primary elections. Seven of these candidates won in the general election: Raúl Grijalva, Ro Khanna, Ayanna Pressley, Rashida Tlaib, Ilhan Omar, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, and Pramila Jayapal. Districts won ranged from D+13 to D+34 on the Cook PVI, meaning solid Democrat. No swing districts were won.\n\nAfter the 2016 presidential election resulted in a victory for Donald Trump, many progressives pointed to the perceived loyalty of politicians to large donors as a major contributing factor to Clinton's loss to Trump. These critics contend that a campaign finance model more similar to that of Bernie Sanders, whose 2016 presidential campaign was funded by small individual donations, will increase public trust in politicians and accountability to constituents.\n\nOn January 23, 2017, Cenk Uygur and Kyle Kulinski founded Justice Democrats with ten others, including former staffers from the Sanders campaign such as its Director of Organizing Technology, Saikat Chakrabarti, and MoveOn.org fundraiser Zack Exley. According to the organization, they seek to create a left-wing populist movement to support alternative Democratic candidates beginning with the 2018 mid-term elections, in order to either defeat the incumbent Democrats or cause them to become accountable to their constituents. They require their candidates to take a pledge to refuse financial contributions from billionaires and corporations. In addition, they hope to rebuild the Democratic Party on a national level and to defeat President Trump if he runs for re-election in 2020.\n\nJustice Democrats announced in March 2017 they had teamed up with Brand New Congress, a PAC established by former Sanders campaign supporters, to further their goals.\n\nAs of March 20, 2017, Justice Democrats have reported they have received 8,300 nominations and raised $1 million.\n\nRepresentative Ro Khanna of California's 17th congressional district announced on May 9, 2017, that he had become a Justice Democrat, and the first sitting member of Congress to join the organization. On November 1, 2017, Justice Democrats announced on social media that fellow progressive group AllOfUs had merged with the group.\n\nOn December 22, 2017, it was announced that Uygur had resigned from his position at the organization, following the revelation of previously deleted but archived controversial blog posts he had written when he was a Republican almost two decades earlier that were featured in a report by \"TheWrap\" that were reported to have been posted in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Uygur apologized the day prior and revealed that he deleted the \"ugly\" posts over a decade ago because he no longer stood by those principles. The following day, Kulinski announced that he had stepped down from the organization as he disagreed with the opinions of the Justice Democrats staff members that pressed for Uygur's dismissal over the blog posts. He said his decision came as a result of a personal dilemma as he saw the posts in question upon re-reading them as being satirical due to them dealing with Uygur complaining about his inability to attract women. Kulinski noted that the decision to ask for Uygur's resignation came from the Justice Democrats staff, not the candidates, and as such he asked his supporters to continue backing the organization's candidates.\n\nAccording to Justice Democrats, their highest priority is to effectively eliminate the role of money and conflicts of interests in politics, and the group's only litmus test is that candidates decline to accept money from PACs. They wish to pass a constitutional amendment to \"put an end to Washington corruption and bring about election reform\". They support the idea of publicly funded elections, banning Super PACs as well as banning private donations to politicians and campaigns. In addition, they advocate the reinstatement of provisions of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and a ban on gerrymandering for partisan gain. As a core policy, any candidate running with Justice Democrats must pledge to refuse any donations from billionaires or corporations. They plan to call a constitutional convention.\n\nIn addition, their platform encourages many progressive priorities, such as:\n\nAs of August 22, 2018, there are 79 current candidates officially endorsed by Justice Democrats.\n\nSeveral progressive organizations, including Our Revolution, Democratic Socialists of America, National Nurses United, Working Families Party, and Brand New Congress, announced in July 2017 a push to encourage House Democrats to sign on to a #PeoplesPlatform, which consists of supporting \"eight bills currently in the House of Representatives that will address the concerns of everyday Americans.\" These eight bills and the topics they address are:\n\n\nRo Khanna of California's 17th congressional district announced on May 9, 2017 that he is a member of Justice Democrats and supports the organization's agenda. On December 6, 2017, Justice Democrats announced that Raul Grijalva of Arizona's 3rd congressional district had joined the group.\n\nJustice Democrats pushed for Keith Ellison of Minnesota's 5th congressional district to run for the Senate seat once occupied by Senator Al Franken. Ellison declined to run for the Senate seat. Ellison, Deputy Chair of the Democratic National Committee, has not announced whether or not he supports Justice Democrats, and has left Congressional politics, running for, and winning, the 2018 Minnesota Attorney General election.\n\nOn April 16, 2018, Justice Democrats announced that Pramila Jayapal of Washington's 7th congressional district had joined the group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "801890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=801890", "title": "Kennedy curse", "text": "Kennedy curse\n\nThe Kennedy curse is a term for a series of deaths and calamities involving members of the American Kennedy family. Ted Kennedy publicly wondered whether a \"curse actually did hang over all the Kennedys\" during his own testimony about the Chappaquiddick incident in 1969. However, skeptics argue that many of the events are normal, and that it is not improbable for a large extended family to experience them.\n\nEvents that have been cited as evidence of the family's misfortunes include:\n\n"}
{"id": "16562758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16562758", "title": "Kenneth C. Bucchi", "text": "Kenneth C. Bucchi\n\nKenneth C. Bucchi was a captain in the US Air Force for six years. He fought in the Gulf War and worked four years as both a private and undercover corporate investigator. He has authored books on his experiences and holds a B.S. in Criminology and Political Science from Murray State University.\n\nHe claimed to have been a CIA narcotics officer, but this was later denied by the CIA. He previously convinced various media that his story was true, being interviewed on CNN, Greta Van Susteren's talk show, and Fox News Channel's Bill O'Reilly.\n\n"}
{"id": "7163717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7163717", "title": "Lesser Festival (Anglicanism)", "text": "Lesser Festival (Anglicanism)\n\nLesser Festivals are a type of observance in the Anglican Communion, including the Church of England, considered to be less significant than a Principal Feast, Principal Holy Day, or Festival, but more significant than a Commemoration. Whereas Principal Feasts must be celebrated, it is not obligatory to observe Lesser Festivals. They are always attached to a calendar date, and are not observed if they fall on a Sunday, in Holy Week, or in Easter Week. In \"Common Worship\" each Lesser Festival is provided with a collect and an indication of liturgical colour.\n\n\"Source: C of E website.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48084390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48084390", "title": "List of incidents of violence against women in Spain", "text": "List of incidents of violence against women in Spain\n\nThis is a list of incidents of violence against women in Spain. The Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality publishes statistics on violence against women and counts every death. Also, media in Spain reports every case of violence against women that results in a death.\n\nIn the last decade about 700 women have been killed in Spain by their partners or ex-partners. Since 1999, the number of killed women is over 1,000.\n\n\n\n\n60 women were killed in Spain in cases of violence against women\n\n\n44 women were killed in gender violence cases.\n\n\n51 women were killed in gender violence cases.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32927182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32927182", "title": "MacArthur Pine", "text": "MacArthur Pine\n\nThe MacArthur Pine was an Eastern White Pine, located in the Nicolet National Forest, near Newald, Wisconsin. It was the Eastern White Pine National champion, 1948–1971. It was named by a Milwaukee newspaper in 1945 in honor of General Douglas MacArthur.\n\nThe circumference at the base (CBH) was 17’ 8\". Its height was 148 ft and it weighed 27 tons. Some 35 feet of the trunk was hollow. In 1977, 40 feet of its top blown was out. It was struck by lightning in 1986. Felled by a suspicious fire on 6/23/2001.\n"}
{"id": "5676904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5676904", "title": "Macy conferences", "text": "Macy conferences\n\nThe Macy Conferences were a set of meetings of scholars from various disciplines held in New York under the direction of Frank Fremont-Smith at the Josiah Macy, Jr. Foundation starting in 1941 and ending in 1960. The explicit aim of the conferences was to promote meaningful communication across scientific disciplines, and restore unity to science. There were different sets of conferences designed to cover specific topics, for a total of 160 conferences over the 19 years this program was active; the phrase \"Macy conference\" does not apply only to those on cybernetics, although it is sometimes used that way informally by those familiar only with that set of events. Disciplinary isolation within medicine was viewed as particularly problematic by the Macy Foundation, and given that their mandate was to aid medical research, they decided to do something about it. Thus other topics covered in different sets of conferences included: aging, adrenal cortex, biological antioxidants, blood clotting, blood pressure, connective tissues, infancy and childhood, liver injury, metabolic interrelations, nerve impulse, problems of consciousness, and renal function.\n\nThe Josiah Macy, Jr. Foundation developed two innovations specifically designed to encourage and facilitate interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary exchanges; one was oral: the Macy conferences, and one was written: the Macy transactions (published transcriptions of the conferences). Macy conferences were essentially conversations held in a conference setting, with participants presenting research while it was still in process (rather than after it had been completed). These were more formal than conversations (papers were prepared ahead of time and circulated) but less formal than conferences. Macy transactions were transcriptions widely circulated to those who could not attend. These were far more informal than typical proceedings, which publish revised versions of conference papers, and served to invite additional scholars into the exchange. The explicit goal was to let a wider audience hear the experts exchange ideas and think out loud about their own work. But even participants themselves found the transactions valuable, as a way to prompt memories, and to catch comments they might have missed. A few comments were made explicitly referring to later publication of the conference discussions, so clearly participants took this into account. However, Fremont-Smith explicitly stated that actual discussion should always take priority.\n\nParticipants were leading scientists from a wide range of fields. Casual recollections of several participants as well as published comments in the Transactions volumes stress the communicative difficulties in the beginning of each set of conferences, giving way to the gradual establishment of a common language powerful enough to communicate the intricacies of the various fields of expertise present. Participants were deliberately chosen for their willingness to engage in interdisciplinary conversations, or for having formal training in multiple disciplines, and many brought relevant past experiences (gained either from earlier Macy conferences or other venues). As participants became more secure in their ability to understand one another over the course of a set of conferences on a single topic, their willingness to think outside their own specializations meant that creativity increased.\n\nThe Macy Cybernetics Conferences were preceded by the Cerebral Inhibition Meeting, organized by Frank Fremont-Smith in May 1942. This was an invitation only meeting attended by:\n\nThere were two topics:\n\nThe Cybernetics conferences were held between 1946 and 1953, organized by the Josiah Macy, Jr. Foundation, motivated by Lawrence K. Frank and Frank Fremont-Smith of the Foundation. As chair of this set of conferences, Warren McCulloch had responsibility to ensure that disciplinary boundaries were not unduly respected. The Cybernetics were particularly complex as a result of bringing together the most diverse group of participants of any of the Macy conferences, so they were the most difficult to organize and maintain.\n\nThe principal purpose of these series of conferences was to set the foundations for a \"general science of the workings of the human mind\". These were one of the first organized studies of interdisciplinarity, spawning breakthroughs in systems theory, cybernetics, and what later became known as cognitive science.\n\nOne of the topics spanning a majority of the conferences was reflexivity. Claude Shannon, one of the attendees, had previously worked on information theory and laid the one of the initial frameworks for the Cybernetic Conferences by postulating information as a probabilistic element which reduced the uncertainty from a set of choices (i.e. being told a statement is true, or even false, completely reduces the ambiguity of its message). \n\nOther conference members, especially Donald MacKay, sought to reconcile Shannon’s view of information, which they called selective information, with theirs of 'structural' information which signified how selective information was to be understood  (i.e. a true statement might acquire additional meanings in varied settings though the information exchanged itself has not changed). The addition of meaning into the concept of information necessarily brought the role of the observer into the Macy Conferences. MacKay argued that by receiving and interpreting a message, the observer and the information they perceived ceased to exist independently of one another. The individual reading and processing the information does so relative to their preexisting internal state, consisting of what they already know and have experienced, and only then acts. \n\nMacKay further muddled the role of information and its meaning by introducing the idea of reflexivity and feedback loops into his thought experiment. By claiming that the influence of the original message on the initial observer could be perceived by a separate individual, MacKay turned the second individual into an additional observer which could be elicited to react just how the initial observer did, a reaction that could then further be observed by a nested doll of observers \"ad infinitum\".\n\nReflexive feedback loops continued to come up during the Macy Conferences and became a prominent issue during its later discussions as well, most notably in the discussions regarding behavioral patterns of the human mind.\n\nWarren McCulloch and Walter Pitts, also attendees, had previously worked on designing the first mathematical schema of a neuron based on the idea that each neuron had a threshold level that was to be reached, via excitation signals from incoming neurons, before firing its own signal onto others. Similarly to how Shannon had previously proven with his work in relay and switch circuits, McCulloch and Pitts proved that neural networks were capable of carrying out any boolean algebra calculations.\n\nAt the Macy Conferences, McCulloch proposed that the firing of a neuron can be associated with an event or interaction taking place in the external world which provides sensory stimulus that is then picked up by the nervous system and processed by the neurons.But McCulloch also showed how a neural network's signal pathway could be set up reflexively with itself causing the neurons to continuously fire onto each other in a ‘reverberating’ circular feedback loop without any original ‘firing’ signal or any new additional incoming signals. McCulloch claimed this accounted for conscious phenomena in which individuals’ world view, or the reaffirmation of their senses’ perceived external stimulus, was cognitively distorted or all together missing as seen in individuals with phantom limb syndrome (claiming to feel an arm that has been amputated or lost) or hallucinations (perceived sensory stimulus without an original external signal). Lawrence Kubie, another attending conference member and a psychiatrist, noted how repetitive and obsessive behaviors manifesting themselves in neurotics bore a resemblance to the behavior enacted by McCulloch’s ‘reverberating’ loops.\n\nShannon had developed a maze-solving device which attendees of the Macy Conferences likened to a rat. Shannon’s ‘rat’ was designed and programmed to find its marked goal when dropped at any point in a maze by giving it the ability to recall on past experiences, previous paths it had taken around the maze, so as to help it reach its endpoint - which it did repeatedly.\n\nThough goal-oriented, Shannon showed how his rat’s design was prone to erratic behavior that negated its original function entirely via reflexive feedback loops. If Shannon’s rat encountered itself in a path in which its ‘memory’ failed to fire correctly, that is to recall the paths which lead it to its goal, it would get stuck in an endless loop chasing its tail. Completely abandoning its goal-oriented design, Shannon's rat had seemingly become neurotic.\n\nThe Macy Conferences failed to reconcile the subjectivity of information (its meaning) and that of the human mind but succeeding in showing how concepts such as that of the observer, reflexivity, black box systems, and neural networks would have to be approached in conjunction and eventually overcome in order to form a complete working theory of the mind. The Macy Conferences were discontinued shortly after the ninth conference.\n\nParticipants: (as members or guests) in at least one of the Cybernetics conferences:\nHarold Alexander Abramson, Ackerman, Vahe E. Amassian, William Ross Ashby, Yehoshua Bar-Hillel, Gregory Bateson, Alex Bavelas, Julian H. Bigelow, Herbert G. Birch, John R. Bowman, Henry W. Brosin, Yuen Ren Chao (who memorably recited the \"Lion-Eating Poet in the Stone Den\"), Jan Droogleever-Fortuyn, M. Ericsson, Fitch, Lawrence K. Frank, Ralph Waldo Gerard, William Grey Walter, Molly Harrower, George Evelyn Hutchinson, Heinrich Klüver, Lawrence S. Kubie, Paul Lazarsfeld, Kurt Lewin, J. C. R. Licklider, Howard S. Liddell, Donald B. Lindsley, W. K. Livingston, David Lloyd, Rafael Lorente de Nó, R. Duncan Luce, Donald M. MacKay, Donald G. Marquis, Warren S. McCulloch, Turner McLardy, Margaret Mead, Frederick A. Mettier, Marcel Monnier, Oskar Morgenstern, F. S. C. Northrop, Walter Pitts, Henry Quastler, Antoine Remond, I. A. Richards, David McKenzie Rioch, Arturo Rosenblueth, Leonard J. Savage, T. C. Schneirla, Claude Shannon, John Stroud, Hans-Lukas Teuber, Mottram Torre, Gerhardt von Bonin, Heinz von Foerster, John von Neumann, Heinz Werner, Norbert Wiener, Jerome B. Wiesner, J. Z. Young.\n\nThis is a sampling of the topics discussed each year.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSome of the researchers present at the cybernetics conferences later went on to do extensive government-funded research on the psychological effects of LSD, and its potential as a tool for interrogation and psychological manipulation in such projects as the CIA's MKULTRA program.\n\nParticipants:\nWilliam Borberg, Seymour Kety, Ernest Sharrer, Mary Brazier, Horace Magoun, Carl Pfieffer\nTopics:\nLSD\n\nThe Group Processes Conferences were held between 1954 and 1958. They are of particular interest due to the element of reflexivity: participants were interested in their own functioning as a group, and made numerous comments about their understanding of how Macy conferences were designed to work. For example, there were a series of jokes made about the disease afflicting them all, interdisciplinitis., or how multidisciplinarian researchers were neither fish nor fowl. When Erving Goffman made a guest appearance at the Third conference, he explicitly prefaced his comments by saying that his ideas were partly speculative, and Frank Fremont-Smith responded by stating that their goal was to discuss ideas that had not been crystallized.\n\nParticipants: (as members or guests) in at least one of the Group Processes conferences:\nGrace Baker, Donald H. Barron, Gregory Bateson, Alex Bavelas, Frank A. Beach, Leo Berman, Ray L. Birdwhistell, Robert L. Blake, Helen Blauvelt, Jerome S. Bruner, George W. Boguslavsky, Charlotte Bühler, Eliot D. Chapple, Stanley Cobb, Nicholas E. Collias, Jocelyn Crane, Erik H. Erikson, L. Thomas Evans, Jerome Frank, Frank S. Freeman, Frieda Fromm-Reichmann, Erving Goffman, Arthur D. Hasler, Eckhard H. Hess, Sol Kramer, Daniel S. Lehrman, Seymour Levy, Howard Liddell, Robert Jay Lifton, Margarethe Lorenz, Konrad Z. Lorenz, William D. Lotspeich, Ernst Mayr, Margaret Mead, Joost A. M. Meerloo, I. Arthur Mirsky, Horst Mittelstaedt, A. Ulric Moore, R. C. Murphy, Harris B. Peck, Karl H. Pribram, Fritz Redl, Julius B. Richmond, Bertram Schaffner, T. C. Schneirla, Theodore Schwartz, William J. L. Sladen, Robert J. Smith, John P. Spiegel, H. Burr Steinbach, Niko Tinbergen, Mottram P. Torre, William Grey Walter, E. P. Wheeler, II.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "282301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282301", "title": "Paris Peace Conference", "text": "Paris Peace Conference\n\nParis Peace Conference may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15300893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15300893", "title": "Peggy Hettrick murder case", "text": "Peggy Hettrick murder case\n\nThe Peggy Hettrick murder case concerns the unsolved 1987 death of Peggy Hettrick in Fort Collins, Colorado. Timothy Lee \"Tim\" Masters enlisted in the Navy following a high school career plagued by police accusation of murder when he was a sophomore at Fort Collins High School. After eight years in the Navy, he was honorably discharged. Masters worked for Learjet as an aviation mechanic until 1997, when he was arrested for the murder of Peggy Hettrick. He was charged and convicted of the Hettrick murder in 1999 and sentenced to life imprisonment without parole. His sentence was vacated in January 2008 when DNA evidence from the original crime scene indicated that he was not the responsible party. Three years after his release from prison, Masters was exonerated by the Colorado Attorney General on June 28, 2011. To date, no one else has been charged with Hettrick's murder.\n\nOn the morning of February 11, 1987, a bicyclist investigated what he thought was a mannequin and discovered the dead body of 37-year-old Peggy Hettrick in a field in southern Fort Collins. According to the coroner, she died from a single stab wound in the upper left back, likely very early in the morning. Her body had been \"sexually mutilated,\" with the precise removal of her left nipple and areola, as well as a female \"circumcision\", including what one doctor described as a partial vulvectomy; a procedure that requires high skill and quality surgical equipment to perform.\n\nBefore the bicyclist found the body, 15-year-old Timothy Masters saw it while walking to school at daybreak. Thinking it was a mannequin left as a prank, Masters did not report the body to the police. After Masters' father Clyde Masters told canvassing police that he'd seen his son deviate from his usual path across the field to the bus that morning, police pulled \"Toothpick\" Masters, then a five-foot-ten, 120-pound high school sophomore, out of class for questioning.\n\nEarly in the investigation, lead investigator Fort Collins detective Jim Broderick centered on Masters as the primary suspect due to his failure to report the body found on his way to school. However, no physical evidence linking Masters to the crime was found.\n\nOn February 12, investigators searched his home, including the sinks for blood, and his school locker. They found 2,200 pages of writings and violent artwork by Masters in his bedroom, backpack and school locker, along with a knife collection and pornography. The local newspaper with the account of the body's discovery was found on his dresser next to his knife collection. However, no trace of Hettrick's blood or hair was found in Masters' room or among his belongings, including his clothes and knife collection.\n\nDespite hours of police questioning without an adult present, wherein policemen repeatedly told Masters they knew he'd committed the murder, the 15-year-old Masters maintained his innocence. The adolescent was administered a lie detector test after police interrogation; the results were inconclusive.\n\nOver 1,000 pages of Masters' violent artwork were admitted into evidence.\n\nTwo hairs were found on Hettrick, but they did not match Masters. Investigators also found unknown fingerprints in Hettrick's purse, but these did not match Masters either. With no new leads, on February 12, 1988, investigators planted an article containing false information in the local newspaper, in an attempt to provoke an incriminating reaction from Masters based upon consultation with the FBI Behavioral Science Unit. Around-the-clock police surveillance of Masters saw no reaction. Masters maintained his innocence during periodic police interviews during his high school and Navy years.\n\nIn 1992, during an interview with a former fellow high school student, investigators discovered that Masters told his friends details about the sexual mutilations. The investigators thought this information had never been made public or disclosed to Masters or his defense attorneys; they thought that only the killer would know those details. Investigators interviewed Masters again in Philadelphia, where he was serving in the Navy. He told investigators that a friend in his art class told him about the mutilations. The friend had been part of a group of Explorer Scouts helping the police search the crime scene, and he was told of the nature of the mutilations early in the investigation. His story checked out. The investigation reached a dead end until 1997.\n\nIn 1997, Broderick contacted Dr. J. Reid Meloy, a forensic psychologist from California. Meloy analyzed Masters' writings and artwork extensively and concluded (without having ever spoken to Masters, and could not since Masters was protected by his Fifth Amendment rights) that some of the drawings represented Masters reliving the crime.\n\nIn 1999, based on the testimony of Dr. Meloy and others, and Master's own drawings, including one that Meloy interpreted as a knife cutting into a vagina and another drawing of a body being dragged, Masters was convicted and sentenced to life in prison for the murder. Though some jurors had doubts about his guilt, his drawings and writings were cited by jury members as compelling evidence against him.\n\nSoon after his conviction, Masters appealed to the Colorado Court of Appeals on the grounds that his drawings were inadmissible under rules of the court, as was testimony concerning a confrontation between Masters and a teacher before the murder occurred. Masters' defense team also objected to the testimony by Dr. Meloy. The Colorado Court of Appeals unanimously upheld his conviction on February 15, 2001.\n\nIn 2002, the Colorado Supreme Court granted certiorari to determine whether evidence eliciting Masters' violent nature, which was fundamental to the prosecution in securing a conviction, was improperly admitted. Finding that some evidence should have, in fact, been suppressed, the Court, nevertheless, determining the error to be harmless, affirmed the lower court's finding. On December 16, 2002 the Colorado Supreme Court denied a petition for rehearing in the case, effectively ending his first appeal.\n\nIn 2004 Masters mounted another appeal on the grounds of ineffective counsel. The state appointed a new defense team who immediately began investigating the case. The defense team discovered that evidence, including the hairs found on Hettrick and photographs of the fingerprints found in her purse, was missing. During 2007 hearings, the defense alleged police and prosecutorial misconduct in the investigation and trial. The defense argued that Jim Broderick perjured himself during the 1999 trial concerning his involvement in the case, and that prosecutors allegedly withheld evidence about links to Dr. Richard Hammond, a potential suspect in the murder.\n\nIn early 2008, special prosecutors assigned to the case agreed that critical information was not turned over to the original defense team. On January 18, 2008, defense attorneys released evidence that further suggested Masters' innocence. Defense attorneys had touch DNA testing done in the Netherlands on evidence found at the scene, but tested samples did not include Masters' DNA. Rather, the DNA results pointed to Hettrick's sometime boyfriend. Special prosecutors assigned to the appeal recommended overturning Masters' sentence as a result of the DNA findings. The DNA results were confirmed by the Colorado Bureau of Investigation.\n\nOn January 22, 2008 a Colorado judge vacated Masters' conviction and ordered him released immediately. On February 5, 2008 District Attorney Larry Abrahamson and the Eight Judicial Circuit held proceedings to decide whether to retry Masters or to drop all charges against him. Prosecutors filed a motion to dismiss murder charges against Masters on January 26, 2008, though at the time the Larimer County District Attorney stated that Masters has not been exonerated for the crime.\n\nIn an announcement on June 28, 2011, Colorado Attorney General John Suthers said Masters is no longer a suspect in the 1987 murder of Peggy Hettrick of Fort Collins and has been exonerated. Suthers stated, \"Pursuant to the mandate from the Governor's Office, our team undertook a comprehensive review of the entire Hettrick homicide\", Suthers said in a statement. \"Our team conducted more than 170 interviews and conducted further DNA analysis. Throughout the past year, the Statewide Grand Jury heard evidence and testimony from numerous witnesses. Based on the testimony, the forensic analysis and the crime scene analysis, the overwhelming conclusion is that Timothy Masters was not involved in the murder of Peggy Hettrick.\"\n\nHe continued: \"Masters cooperated fully with our investigation, including the Grand Jury proceedings. Given the nature and extent of the Grand Jury investigation, the time has come for law enforcement to officially exonerate Timothy Masters. The Hettrick case remains open. We have made significant progress in the investigation. Our team will continue to develop evidence and we will continue to work on this case until the murderer is brought to justice. Too many lives have been affected by the events of that day. Justice requires that we continue to diligently work on the case.\"\n\nIn 1995, seven years after the murder and two years before the retention of experts for the Masters’ trial, Dr. Richard Hammond, an eye surgeon, was arrested for secretly filming women's genitalia, including that of his own female family members, through fake ventilation grates in his downstairs bathroom. The cameras were positioned to allow for detailed, closeup viewing of the women's genitals while sitting on the toilet. Investigators also found that Hammond kept thousands of dollars worth of pornography hidden in a locked office and in a storage shed in town, indicating an obsession with female genitalia. As a surgeon, Hammond had the skill and equipment to perform the precision mutilation found on Hettrick's body. In 1987, Hammond's bedroom window overlooked the location where Hettrick's body was discovered, and he was home the morning after the murder, despite his usually scheduled surgeries on that day of the week. Hammond committed suicide in March 1995, several days after his arrest. The police were called to a La Quinta Motor Inn in north Denver. There, they found Hammond dead, an IV needle containing cyanide residue sticking out of his thigh. \"My death should satisfy the media's thirst for blood,\" he wrote in the suicide note.\n\nThough investigators noted a possible link between Hammond and the Hettrick murder, no follow up investigation was done. Broderick ordered evidence in the Hammond case destroyed before it could be examined for any link with Hettrick based upon the premise that he had committed suicide and there was no criminal investigation that would begin. The arrest of Dr. Hammond, and his subsequent suicide, was information withheld from Dr. Meloy and the other experts, and the FBI was not informed of this case by Larimer County to reconsider their profiling of Mr. Masters from 1987.\n\nThe DNA testing that led to the 2008 overturning of Masters' conviction also implicated Hettrick's sometime boyfriend, Matt Zoellner, a young used car salesman, who testified at Masters' trial. Zoellner was initially a suspect in 1987, but was quickly ruled out. Officials plan to renew the investigation.\n\nColorado law had no requirement that evidence be preserved, and shields liability to authorities who destroy evidence after criminal trials are complete. Partially as a result of this case, Colorado lawmakers passed H.B. 1397, which requires the preservation of all evidence that may contain DNA that is collected in cases resulting in a conviction for a Class 1 felony or a sex offense. The evidence must be preserved for the life of the defendant, after which the evidence may be destroyed. If charges have not been filed, DNA evidence must be preserved for the length of the investigation.\n\nIn June 2008, after a six-month review of the case, Weld County District Attorney Ken Buck ascertained misfeasance, but not malfeasance. \"Buck was responsible for determining whether Broderick broke any laws, but in a letter to Chief Judge James H. Hiatt, he said it was important to give context of the overall case, which he used to reach his conclusions. 'After consideration of the evidence, I did not discover criminal conduct among employees of the Fort Collins Police Department or the prosecutors in the case,' Buck wrote.\" Buck also noted that the statute of limitations had expired.\n\nOn October 21, 2008, David Lane, a criminal defense attorney in Denver filed a civil suit in federal district court against the Larimer County prosecutors, Terry Gilmore and Jolene Blair, as well as detective James Broderick, alleging violations of Masters' civil rights. In their legal brief are facts concerning the Masters' case, including withholding evidence from Dr. Meloy and other expert witnesses (including a surgeon consultant and a criminalist), and interference with the sharing of evidence among expert witnesses that would cast doubt on Masters' involvement in Hettrick's homicide and would have pointed toward other suspects. No information on the other suspects, including their existence, was provided to the experts at the time of their retention. The county settled with Masters for US$4.1 million and the City of Fort Collins settled for US$5.9 million, for a total of US$10 million.\n\nThe original Masters' case was prosecuted by then deputy District Attorneys Terry Gilmore and Jolene Blair, who were elevated to district judgeship soon after. On September 9, 2008, the Colorado Supreme Court censured Gilmore and Blair. In an agreement with the Colorado Supreme Court's Office of Attorney Regulation, Gilmore and Blair acknowledged failing to ensure that Masters' defense attorneys received large amounts of the information which had been obtained by the Fort Collins Police Department, including many key pieces indicating Masters' innocence. In addition, the prosecutors failed to gather other information from police, despite indications that it existed.\n\nIn the General Election of November 2, 2010, less than 40% of voters in the 8th Judicial District voted to retain Judges Blair and Gilmore, and their tenures ended on January 11, 2011.\n\nOn June 30, 2010, a Larimer County Grand Jury under the direction of neighboring Weld County District Attorney Ken Buck's office indicted Lt. James Broderick on eight counts of felony first-degree perjury for materially false statements he made pursuant to the arrest and conviction of Masters. Count 1, concerning an affidavit for Masters' arrest, was dismissed by Weld County District Judge James Hartmann in the January 26, 2011 ruling, \"People v. Broderick,\" in a section entitled \"Bronston Principles.\"\n\nOn May 9, 2011, all remaining charges were dismissed by a ruling from Weld County District Judge James Hartmann that the 3-year statute of limitations for perjury in Colorado had expired. Weld County District Attorney Ken Buck, who is handling the prosecution of the Broderick case, said he was evaluating the judge's order and \"will proceed with Broderick's prosecution if legally appropriate\". Buck's options include a direct appeal to the Colorado Supreme Court as well as filing a reconsider motion with the original judge which would include a clarification of the timeline in the case.\n\nOn July 29, 2011, a different Larimer County Grand Jury under the direction of Weld County District Attorney Ken Buck's office re-indicted Lt. James Broderick on nine counts of perjury. Broderick faces up to six years in prison for each count if convicted. Those charges also were dismissed. In 2013, Broderick resigned, thus suspending an internal investigation into his handling of the Hettrick murder. Fort Collins has reportedly spent $400,000 to date to defend Broderick. Charges against him were finally dismissed in 2013.\n\nA detailed forensic study that included the investigative methods used in the Hettrick murder case was published in 2009. In June 2012, Berkley Books published \"Drawn to Injustice\", a book co-written by Timothy Masters which tells the story from his perspective.\n\nA&E's true crime television documentary series, Cold Case Files produced and narrated by Bill Kurtis featured a 1999 episode, \"Murder Illustrated\", that dealt with the Peggy Hettrick case. The episode labeled Masters a murderer and congratulated the Fort Collins Police Pepartment and District Attorney's office for a job well done. Since Masters' exoneration and the controversy surrounding the blundering of the case by the authorities, the episode has been withdrawn from viewing circulation, although it remains available on DVD. Kurtis refused to comment on the episode.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24482047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24482047", "title": "Picasso (play)", "text": "Picasso (play)\n\nA Picasso is a two-character stage play based Jeffrey Hatcher. Originally commissioned by Philip Langner and the Theatre Guild. \"A Picasso\" received its world premier by The Philadelphia Theatre Company at Plays and Players Theater, in Philadelphia, opening on May 31, 2003.\n\nIn occupied Paris, 1941, Pablo Picasso has been summoned from his favorite cafe and taken to a storage vault for an interrogation by Miss Fischer, a \"cultural attache\" from Berlin. She has been ordered to authenticate three Picasso paintings recently \"confiscated\" by the Nazis from their Jewish owners. The Nazi Ministry of Propaganda has planned an \"exhibition\" to burn \"degenerate art.\" Picasso engages Fischer in a desperate negotiation to save his work while the pair disucss art, politics, sex, and truth.\n\nDirected by John Tillinger. The play was presented by The Philadelphia Theatre Company, Philadelphia.\n\nDirected by John Tillinger. The play was presented by Coconut Grove Playhosue in Miami, Florida.\n\nDirected by John Tillinger. The play was presented by the Manhattan Theatre Club, New York City.\n\nDirected by Jiří Svoboda. The play was presented by the Ungelt Theatre in Prague. The play was won a prize Thalia for both an actor Milan Kňažko (nominated) and Vilma Cibulková (won).\n\n"}
{"id": "52795561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52795561", "title": "Ragamuffin parade", "text": "Ragamuffin parade\n\nA Ragamuffin parade is an annual occurrence in communities in the New York metropolitan area. The parades feature children in their Halloween costumes, and typically are held in October or on Halloween. The holiday formed around 1870, a few years after US President Abraham Lincoln declared Thanksgiving a national holiday.\n\nIt had its origins with Ragamuffin Day, a celebration as part of Thanksgiving, which involved children going door-to-door seeking candy, dressed as beggars and homeless residents of New York. Ragamuffin Day was a predecessor to Halloween, which rose in popularity in the 1940s and 1950s.\n\nRagamuffin Day formed around 1870, a few years after US President Abraham Lincoln declared Thanksgiving a national holiday. Ragamuffin Day took place on Thanksgiving, and typically involved children going from door to door asking for candy or money. These children were originally dressed in the style of the homeless of New York, with rags and oversized and exaggerated imitations of beggars. In further years, the children dressed as sailors, bandits and Disney characters. In the 1930s, the begging tradition was superseded by Ragamuffin parades, a predecessor of Thanksgiving Day parades. As Halloween became popular after the Great Depression, Ragamuffin events became less popular, however children continued the traditions into the 1940s.\n\nAround 1930, \"The New York Times\" published several articles in an attempt to end the tradition, that the children would \"annoy adults\" on Thanksgiving Day with their pleas for candy, money, and gifts. Later that year the newspaper reported that the parades were scarce in New York City, except in its outskirts, where the subway lines end.\n\nBy 1937 several organizations began hosting Thanksgiving Day parades to discourage Ragamuffins, where the Thanksgiving parades would also feature children dressed both as beggars and in Halloween costumes. In the 1940s, some of these parades involved around 500 children. The last recorded Thanksgiving Day Ragamuffin parade was in 1956, overshadowed by Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. A Ragamuffin parade on October 15, 1972 in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, brought about 6,000 children and a crowd of around 35,000, making it the largest Ragamuffin parade in the United States at that time.\n\nRagamuffin parades continued in the outer boroughs of New York City after losing popularity in Manhattan. The parades are still held in the area, including in Bay Ridge, held since 1966, Park Ridge, New Jersey, and in Hoboken, New Jersey. Other communities include the Westchester County municipalities Pleasantville and Briarcliff Manor (where the parade has been held for about 30 years).\n\nIn September 2016, a street in Bay Ridge was renamed \"Ragamuffin Way\" in honor of the neighborhood's 50-year-old tradition.\n\n"}
{"id": "1767662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1767662", "title": "Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda link allegations", "text": "Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda link allegations\n\nSaddam Hussein and al-Qaeda link allegations were made by the U.S. government officials who claimed that a highly secretive relationship existed between Iraqi President Saddam Hussein and the radical Islamist militant organization Al-Qaeda between 1992 and 2003, specifically through a series of meetings reportedly involving the Iraqi Intelligence Service (IIS). In the lead up to the Iraq War, U.S. President George W. Bush alleged that Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda might conspire to launch terrorist attacks on the United States, basing the administration's rationale for war, in part, on this allegation . The consensus of intelligence experts has been that these contacts never led to an operational relationship, and that consensus is backed up by reports from the independent 9/11 Commission and by declassified Defense Department reports as well as by the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, whose 2006 report of Phase II of its investigation into prewar intelligence reports concluded that there was no evidence of ties between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda. Critics of the Bush Administration have said Bush was intentionally building a case for war with Iraq without regard to factual evidence. On April 29, 2007, former Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet said on \"60 Minutes\", \"We could never verify that there was any Iraqi authority, direction and control, complicity with al-Qaeda for 9/11 or any operational act against America, period.\"\n\nDuring the lead-up to the Iraq War, two questions were raised regarding an alleged connection between Saddam Hussein's government and al-Qaeda. The first question was whether the Iraqi regime and al-Qaeda had a cooperative relationship, and the second was whether Saddam Husein's government supported the September 11, 2001 attacks.\n\nWhile some contacts between agents of Saddam's government and members of al-Qaeda have been alleged, the consensus of experts and analysts has held that those contacts never led to an \"operational\" relationship. The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence concluded that there was only one actual encounter between representatives of the Baathist regime and representatives of al-Qaeda. This single meeting took place in the Sudan in 1995, and the Iraqi representative, who is in custody and has been cooperating with investigators, said that after the meeting he \"received word from his IIS chain-of-command that he should not see bin Laden again.\" The panel found evidence of only two other instances in which there was any communication between Saddam's regime and al-Qaeda members. On the other two occasions, the Committee concluded, Saddam Hussein rebuffed meeting requests from an al-Qaeda operative. The intelligence community has not found any other evidence of meetings between al-Qaeda and Iraq.\n\nOn the more specific question of whether Saddam Hussein was behind the attacks of September 11, 2001, the consensus view is that there is no credible evidence of his government's involvement. On March 20, 2006, President Bush made clear that his administration did not have any evidence to prove Saddam played a role in those attacks.\n\nThe Bush Administration sought to link the Iraqi dictator to Islamist radicals early on in the aftermath of the September 11th attacks. President Bush allegedly made the case to Tony Blair as early as September 14, 2001, although Blair urged him not to pursue the claim.\n\nIn addition, Bush received on September 21, 2001, a classified President's Daily Brief (PDB), indicating the U.S. intelligence community had no evidence linking Saddam Hussein to the September 11th attacks and that \"there was scant credible evidence that Iraq had any significant collaborative ties with Al Qaeda.\"\n\nVice President Dick Cheney had told \"Meet the Press\" on December 9, 2001, that Iraq was harboring Abdul Rahman Yasin, a suspect in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, and repeated the statement in another appearance on September 14, 2003, saying \"We learned more and more that there was a relationship between Iraq and al-Qaida that stretched back through most of the decade of the '90s, that it involved training, for example, on BW and CW, that al-Qaida sent personnel to Baghdad to get trained on the systems that are involved. The Iraqis providing bomb-making expertise and advice to the al-Qaida organization. We know, for example, in connection with the original World Trade Center bombing in '93 that one of the bombers was Iraqi, returned to Iraq after the attack of '93. And we've learned subsequent to that, since we went into Baghdad and got into the intelligence files, that this individual probably also received financing from the Iraqi government as well as safe haven.\" and once again in an interview with National Public Radio in January, 2004, stating that there had been \"overwhelming evidence\" of a relationship between Saddam and al-Qaeda based on evidence including Iraq's purported harboring of Yasin.\n\nIn the same \"Meet the Press\" interviews, Cheney implied a connection between Iraq and Mohamed Atta; \"The Czech interior minister said today that an Iraqi intelligence officer met with Mohammed Atta, one of the ringleaders of the September 11 terrorists attacks on the United States, just five months before the synchronized hijackings and mass killings were carried out.\" and \"With respect to 9/11, of course, we've had the story that's been public out there. The Czechs alleged that Mohamed Atta, the lead attacker, met in Prague with a senior Iraqi intelligence official five months before the attack, but we've never been able to develop any more of that yet either in terms of confirming it or discrediting it. We just don't know.\" Czech\nofficials have since backed off of this claim, and even Cheney has since acknowledged that the notion \"that the meeting ever took place\" has been \"pretty well knocked down now.\" (See Mohamed Atta's alleged Prague connection.)\n\nIn the initial stages of the war on terror, the Central Intelligence Agency, under George Tenet, was rising to prominence as the lead agency in the Afghanistan war. But when Tenet insisted in his personal meetings with President Bush that there was no connection between Al Qaeda and Iraq, V.P. Dick Cheney and Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld initiated a secret program to re-examine the evidence and marginalize the CIA and Tenet. The questionable intelligence acquired by this secret program was \"stovepiped\" to the vice president and presented to the public. In some cases, Cheney's office would leak the intelligence to reporters, where it would be reported by outlets such as \"The New York Times\". Cheney would subsequently appear on the Sunday political television talk shows to discuss the intelligence, referencing \"The New York Times\" as the source to give it credence.\n\nThe prewar CIA testimony was that there was evidence of senior level contacts between Iraq and Al Qaeda going back a decade involving Iraq providing al-Qaeda with various kinds of training-combat, bomb-making, and [chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear] CBRN, but that they had no credible information that Baghdad had foreknowledge of the 11 September attacks or any other al-Qaeda strike. The CIA's report on Iraq's ties to terrorism noted in September 2002 that the CIA did not have \"credible intelligence reporting\" of operational collaboration between Iraq and al-Qaeda. According to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, the CIA reported that \"al-Qaida, including Bin Ladin personally, and Saddam were leery of close cooperation,\" but that the \"mutual antipathy of the two would not prevent tactical, limited cooperation.\" (p. 338) The current consensus view of experts is that although members of Saddam Hussein's intelligence service may have met with al-Qaeda terrorists over the last decade or so, that there was no evidence that Iraq and al Qaeda were linked operationally. It is now known that the main source for the CIA's claim that Iraq had trained al-Qaeda members in bomb making and poisons and gases included the now recanted claims of captured al-Qaeda leader Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi. The CIA has since recalled and reissued all its intelligence reporting about al-Libi's recanted claims. Likewise, the DIA communicated to President Bush in February 2002 its stance that al-Libi \"was intentionally misleading his debriefers.\"\n\nIn the summer of 2004, the 9/11 Commission concluded that \"to date we have seen no evidence that these or the earlier contacts ever developed into a collaborative operational relationship. Nor have we seen evidence indicating that Iraq cooperated with al Qaeda in developing or carrying out any attacks against the United States.\"\n\nThis conclusion is consistent with the findings of various investigations into specific aspects of the Saddam Hussein/al-Qaeda relationship, including those conducted by the Central Intelligence Agency, Defense Intelligence Agency, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and National Security Council. The Senate Report of Pre-war Intelligence on Iraq also reviewed the intelligence community's conclusions and found that they were justifiable.\n\nThe U.S. government released documents, called the 'Operation Iraqi Freedom documents', regarding which the Pentagon has cautioned it has made 'no determination regarding the authenticity of the documents, validity or factual accuracy.'\" Some claim the information contained in some of the documents suggest Saddam and al Qaeda may have been willing to work together. 9/11 Commission member Bob Kerrey looked at some of the documents and \"was careful to say that new documents translated last night by ABC News did not prove Saddam Hussein played a role in any way in plotting the attacks of September 11, 2001.\" Nevertheless, Kerrey stated that one of the documents suggests that \"Saddam was a significant enemy of the United States.\"\n\nThe Office of the Director of National Intelligence has already looked at the documents and warned that \"amateur translators won't find any major surprises, such as proof Hussein hid stockpiles of chemical weapons.\" The Pentagon also went through the documents and released an official study of the documents; the study does not report on any evidence linking Saddam to al-Qaeda (see below). The 2006 Senate Select Committee on Intelligence concluded that \"additional reviews of documents recovered in Iraq are unlikely to provide information that would contradict the Committee's findings or conclusions.\" Intelligence expert Steven Aftergood suggested that many are using the release of these documents as an opportunity to find \"a retrospective justification for the war in Iraq.\"\n\nOn March 21, 2006, Bush sought to distance himself from the allegation of any link. He said: \"First, just if I might correct a misperception, I don't think we ever said—at least I know I didn't say that there was a direct connection between September the 11th and Saddam Hussein.\" Bush reaffirmed the White House position in even stronger terms in a press conference on 21 August 2006. Ken Herman of Cox News asked, \"What did Iraq have to do with ... the attack on the World Trade Center?\" Bush replied, \"Nothing.\" Bush elaborated on his answer and added, \"Nobody has ever suggested that the attacks of September the 11th were ordered by Iraq.\"\n\nOpponents of his Iraq policy charged that his statement was inconsistent with his letter to Congress of March 21, 2003 and a minority (Democrat) staff report by the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Government Reform claimed that \"in 125 separate appearances, they [Bush, Cheney, Powell, Rumsfeld and Rice] made ... 61 misleading statements about Iraq's relationship with al-Qaeda.\"\n\nPolls have shown that many Americans continued to believe that Saddam was linked to al-Qaeda, although the number who do so has slowly declined. This discrepancy has been attributed by some to the way in which the U.S. mainstream media presented facts and opinion regarding the war on terror. (See also 2003 invasion of Iraq media coverage.)\n\nWhen Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990, Osama bin Laden offered to defend Saudi Arabia by sending mujahideen from Afghanistan to repel Saddam's forces. After the Gulf War, bin Laden continued to criticize Saddam's Ba'ath administration, emphasizing that Saddam could not be trusted. Bin Laden told his biographer that \"the land of the Arab world, the land is like a mother, and Saddam Hussein is fucking his mother.\" Saddam Hussein was a Ba'athist, and Ba'athism is a movement which combines pan-Arab nationalism with secularism and Arab Socialism. It is therefore very much at odds with political Islamism. The ideological founder of Ba'athism, Michel Aflaq, was himself a Christian.\n\nSaddam himself had long been at conflict with political Islam; Saddam had kicked out Ayatollah Khomeini to France when he attempted to incite the Shias of Iraq to overthrow him when he was in exile in Najaf which, ironically, was a catalyst for the Iranian Revolution and the resulting Iran-Iraq war. Khomeini pitted Saddam against a torrent of Islamic radicalism as he faced his own people who were inspired by the Iranian Revolution and eight years of \"Holy War\" against Iranians who utilized suicide tactics, which wreaked havoc on the Armed Forces (who ultimately solved this problem with Chemical Weapons). Even during the Lebanese Civil War, he supported Michel Aoun and the Christian Maronite Forces as opposed to Amal Movement or Hezbollah, which were funded by Iran and most other Arab countries. In Iraq itself he abolished sharia courts, cracked down ruthlessly against any Islamist movement, responding with mass executions and torture whenever he felt threatened by them, liberalized society by promoting western ideals of society and law (he allegedly bragged to western diplomats that the \"National Drink\" of Iraq was Johnnie Walker Blue Label) and usually kept secular Sunnis and Christians within his government. Ultimately, Saddam's resulting image in the Arab world was not of Islamism, but one of the most secular and anti-Islamist leaders of his generation. Therefore, Saddam had been long viewed unfavorably by Islamists, regardless of their allegiance or political ideology, with the general view of him being a corrupt, dishonest, and self-serving dictator rather than an Islamic Leader, an image he tried to portray in his later years in power (he shocked the Arab world when he had a Quran commissioned to be written in his blood). As such, many analysts found it impossible that Saddam would support Radical Islamists such as al-Qaeda after fighting Iran for eight years and suppressing his own Islamist rebellions throughout the 90's.\n\nThe 9/11 Commission stated in its report that bin Laden had been sponsoring anti-Saddam Islamists in Iraqi Kurdistan, and sought to attract them into his Islamic army. Those forces mostly operated in areas not under Saddam's control. Sudanese Islamic leader Hassan al-Turabi, to protect his ties with Iraq, brokered an agreement with Bin Laden to stop supporting activities against Saddam. Bin Laden seemed to honor this agreement for a time, although, he continued to aid Islamic extremists in Kurdistan. In the late 1990s, these extremist groups suffered major defeats by Kurdish forces. In 2001, the extremist groups, with help from Bin Laden, re-formed into an organization called Ansar al-Islam. There are indications that by then the Iraqi regime tolerated and may even have helped Ansar al Islam against the common Kurdish enemy.\n\nRobert Pape's exhaustive study of suicide terrorism found that \"al-Qaeda's transnational suicide terrorists have come overwhelmingly from America's closest allies in the Muslim world and not at all from the Muslim regimes that the U.S. State Department considers 'state sponsors of terrorism'.\" Pape notes that no al-Qaeda suicide attackers came from Iraq. Daniel Byman's study of state sponsorship of terrorism similarly did not list Iraq as a significant state sponsor, and called the al-Qaeda connection \"a rationale that before the war was strained and after it seems an ever-weaker reed.\" The conclusion of counterterrorism experts Rohan Gunaratna, Bruce Hoffman, and Daniel Benjamin, as well as journalists Peter Bergen and Jason Burke (who have both written extensively on al-Qaeda), has been that there is no evidence that suggests any collaborative relationship between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda. That was similar to the conclusion of specific investigations by the National Security Council, the Central Intelligence Agency, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and 9/11 Commission, among others. The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence reviewed the CIA's investigation and concluded that the CIA's conclusion that there was no evidence of operational collaboration was justified. \n\nWhile Saddam was not involved in the September 11 attacks, members of his government did have contacts with al-Qaeda over the years; many of the links, as will be seen below, are not considered by experts and analysts as convincing evidence of a collaborative operational relationship. Former counterterrorism czar Richard A. Clarke writes,\n\n[t]he simple fact is that lots of people, particularly in the Middle East, pass along many rumors and they end up being recorded and filed by U.S. intelligence agencies in raw reports. That does not make them 'intelligence'. Intelligence involves analysis of raw reports, not merely their enumeration or weighing them by the pound. Analysis, in turn, involves finding independent means of corroborating the reports. Did al-Qaeda agents ever talk to Iraqi agents? I would be startled if they had not. I would also be startled if American, Israeli, Iranian, British, or Jordanian agents had somehow failed to talk to al-Qaeda or Iraqi agents. Talking to each other is what intelligence agents do, often under assumed identities or 'false flags,' looking for information or possible defectors.\n\nLarry Wilkerson, former Chief of Staff to Secretary of State Colin Powell, told Voice of America that\n\n[...] Saddam Hussein had his agenda and al-Qaida had its agenda, and those two agendas were incompatible. And so if there was any contact between them, it was a contact that was rebuffed rather than a contact that led to meaningful relationships between them.\n\nThe purported meeting in Prague between Mohammed Atta and an Iraqi Intelligence officer, regarding which Vice President Cheney had stated \"we've never been able to develop any more of that yet either in terms of confirming it or discrediting it\", was dismissed by CIA Director George Tenet, who told the Senate Intelligence Committee in February 2004 that there was no evidence to support that allegation. In fact, the FBI had evidence that Atta was in Florida at the time, taking aircraft flight training; and the Iraqi officer in question, Ahmed Khalil Ibrahim Samir al Ani, has been captured and maintains he has never met Atta.\n\nThe repeated accusation by Vice President Cheney that Iraq harbored Abdul Rahman Yasin, one of the perpetrators of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, conflicts with Iraq's 1998 offer to the FBI of extradition for Yasin in return for a statement clearing Iraq from any role in the attack. Even though the CIA and FBI had already concluded that Iraq played no role in the attack, the Clinton administration refused the offer. Iraq also offered to extradite Yasin in 2001, after the 9/11 attacks. In June 2002, an unnamed US intelligence official told 60 Minutes that Iraq had attached \"extreme conditions\" to the handing over of Yasin. According to the official, the Iraqis wanted the U.S. to sign a document laying out where Yasin had been since 1993, but that the US did not agree with their version of the facts. In any case, Yasin had cooperated with the FBI and they had released him, although they would later call it a \"mistake.\" The CIA and FBI had nevertheless concluded in 1995 and 1996 that \"the Iraqi government was in no way involved in the attack.\" Counterterrorism czar Richard Clarke called the allegations \"absolutely without foundation.\" The Iraqis made another offer to the Bush Administration in 2003 but this offer was also spurned.\n\nFormer National Security Council counterterrorism directors Daniel Benjamin and Steven Simon summarized the problem with the Bush Administration's view in the eyes of the intelligence community: \"The administration pressed its case for war most emphatically by arguing that U.S. national security was imperiled by Saddam's ties to al-Qaeda. The argument had the obvious virtue of playing to the public's desire to see the war on terrorism prosecuted aggressively and conclusively. Yet, scant proof of these links was presented. The record showed a small number of contacts between jihadists and Iraqi officials. This was treated as the tip of an unseen iceberg of cooperation, even though it fell far short of anything that resembled significant cooperation in the eyes of the counterterrorism community—as it always had. No persuasive proof was given of money, weaponry, or training being provided.\"\n\nFormer Chief of Staff to Secretary of State Colin Powell, Col. Lawrence B. Wilkerson, has since revealed that \"as the administration authorized harsh interrogation in April and May 2002—well before the Justice Department had rendered any legal opinion—its principal priority for intelligence was not aimed at pre-empting another terrorist attack on the U.S. but discovering a smoking gun linking Iraq and al-Qa'ida.\"\n\nJust prior to Saddam's invasion of Kuwait, Saddam turned to religion perhaps to bolster his government (for example, adding the words \"God is Great\" in Arabic to the flag, and referring to God in his speeches). After Saddam lost the Gulf War (and facing widespread rebellions from the Shia majority), he identified more closely with Islam by hosting international conferences and broadcasting Islamic sermons on national radio. In 1994, Saddam began his \"Faith Campaign\" in which he began to build mosques, changed laws to outlaw public drinking, required Baathist officials to attend prayers and held Quran reciting competitions.\n\nSome sources allege that several meetings between top Iraqi operatives and bin Laden took place, but these claims have been disputed by many other sources, including most of the original intelligence agencies that investigated these sources in the first place. Many in the intelligence community are skeptical about whether such meetings, if they took place at all, ever resulted in any meaningful relationship. Many of the claims of actual collaboration seem to have originated with people associated with the Iraqi National Congress whose credibility has been impeached and who have been accused of manipulating the evidence in order to lure the United States into war on false pretenses. In addition, many of the raw intelligence reports came to the awareness of the public through the leaking of a memo sent from Undersecretary of Defense for Policy Douglas J. Feith to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, the conclusions of which have been disputed by intelligence agencies including the CIA. Feith's view of the relationship between Saddam and Osama differed from the official view of the intelligence community. The memo was subsequently leaked to the media. The Pentagon issued a statement cautioning that the memo was \"a classified annex containing a list and description of the requested reports, so that the committee could obtain the reports from the relevant members of the intelligence community...The classified annex was not an analysis of the substantive issue of the relationship between Iraq and al Qaeda, and it drew no conclusions.\" The Pentagon warned that \"Individuals who leak or purport to leak classified information are doing serious harm to national security; such activity is deplorable and may be illegal.\" Former head of the Middle East section of the DIA W. Patrick Lang told the Washington Post that the Weekly Standard article which published Feith's memo \"is a listing of a mass of unconfirmed reports, many of which themselves indicate that the two groups continued to try to establish some sort of relationship. If they had such a productive relationship, why did they have to keep trying?\" And, according to the Post, \"another former senior intelligence official said the memo is not an intelligence product but rather 'data points ... among the millions of holdings of the intelligence agencies, many of which are simply not thought likely to be true.'\"\n\nSome have suggested that an understanding was reached between Iraq and al-Qaeda, namely that al-Qaeda would not act against Saddam in exchange for Iraqi support, primarily in the form of training. No evidence of such an understanding has ever been produced. Some reports claim that Mohamed Atta met with an Iraqi intelligence operative in Prague, but intelligence officials have concluded that no such meeting took place. A training camp in Salman Pak, south of Baghdad, was said by a number of defectors to have been used to train international terrorists (assumed to be al-Qaeda members) in hijacking techniques using a real airplane as a prop. The defectors were inconsistent about a number of details. The camp has been examined by U.S. Marines, and intelligence analysts do not believe it was used by al-Qaeda. Some of these analysts believe it was actually used for counterterrorism training, while others believe it was used to train foreign fighters overtly aligned with Iraq. The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence concluded that \"Postwar findings support the April 2002 Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) assessment that there was no credible reporting on al-Qa'ida training at Salman Pak or anywhere else in Iraq. There have been no credible reports since the war that Iraq trained al-Qa'ida operatives at Salman Pak to conduct or support transnational terrorist operations.\"\n\nIn November 2001, a month after the September 11th attacks, Mubarak al-Duri was contacted by Sudanese intelligence services who informed him that the FBI had sent Jack Cloonan and several other agents, to speak with a number of people known to have ties to Bin Laden. al-Duri and another Iraqi colleague agreed to meet with Cloonan in a safe house overseen by the intelligence service. They were asked whether there was any possible connection between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda, and laughed stating that Bin Laden hated the dictator who he believed was a \"Scotch-drinking, woman-chasing apostate.\"\n\nMuch of the evidence of alleged links between Iraq and al-Qaeda is based on speculation about meetings that may have taken place between Iraqi officials and al-Qaeda members. The idea that a meeting could have happened has been taken as evidence of substantial collaboration. As terrorism analyst Evan Kohlman points out, \"While there have been a number of promising intelligence leads hinting at possible meetings between al-Qaeda members and elements of the former Baghdad regime, nothing has been yet shown demonstrating that these potential contacts were historically any more significant than the same level of communication maintained between Osama bin Laden and ruling elements in a number of Iraq's Persian Gulf neighbors, including Saudi Arabia, Iran, Yemen, Qatar, and Kuwait.\"\n\nOn February 5, 2003, then Secretary of State Colin Powell addressed the U.N. Security Council on the issue of Iraq. In the address, Powell made several claims about Iraq's ties to terrorism. Powell acknowledged in January 2004 that the speech presented no hard evidence of collaboration between Saddam and al-Qaeda; he told reporters at a State Department press conference that \"I have not seen smoking gun, concrete evidence about the connection, but I do believe the connections existed.\" After Powell left office, he acknowledged that he was skeptical of the evidence presented to him for the speech. He told Barbara Walters in an interview that he considered the speech a \"blot\" on his record and that he feels \"terrible\" about assertions that he made in the speech that turned out to be false. He said, \"There were some people in the intelligence community who knew at that time that some of these sources were not good, and shouldn't be relied upon, and they didn't speak up. That devastated me.\" When asked specifically about a Saddam/al-Qaeda connection, Powell responded, \"I have never seen a connection. … I can't think otherwise because I'd never seen evidence to suggest there was one.\"\nThe following are quotations from the speech:\n\nThe major claims set forth in Powell's speech—that Jordanian terrorist Abu Musab Al-Zarqawi constitutes a link between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda, and that Saddam's government provided training and assistance to al-Qaeda terrorists in Baghdad—have since been disputed by the intelligence community and terrorism experts. The CIA issued a report in August 2004 that concluded, according to Knight-Ridder reporters, that there was \"no conclusive evidence that the regime harbored Osama bin Laden associate Abu Musab Al-Zarqawi.\" A U.S. official told Reuters that \"the report did not make any final judgments or come to any definitive conclusions, adding \"To suggest the case is closed on this would not be correct.\" Zarqawi reportedly entered Iraq from Iran, infiltrating the Kurdish north because it was the one part of the country not under Saddam's control. Intelligence experts point out that Zarqawi had few ties to Osama bin Laden either, noting that he was a rival, rather than an affiliate, of al-Qaeda. A former Israeli intelligence official described the meeting between Zarqawi and bin Laden as \"loathing at first sight.\" And the other major claims in the speech are attributed by Powell to \"an al-Qaeda source.\" Karen DeYoung wrote, \"A year after the invasion, the [CIA] acknowledged that the information had come from a single source who had been branded a liar by U.S. intelligence officials long before Powell's presentation.\" This source turned out to be captured al-Qaeda leader Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi, who was handed over to Egypt for interrogation. According to the New York Times, al-Libi provided some accurate intelligence on al Qaeda and made some statements about Iraq and al Qaeda while in American custody, but it wasn't until being after he was handed over to Egypt that he made more specific assertions about Iraq training al Qaeda members in biological and chemical weapons. A DIA report issued in February 2002 expressed skepticism about al-Libi's claims due to this, noting that he may have been subjected to harsh treatment while in Egyptian custody. In February 2004, the CIA reissued the debriefing reports from al-Libi to note that he had recanted information. A government official told the \"New York Times\" that al Libi's claims of harsh treatment had not been corroborated and the CIA has refused to comment specifically on al-Libi's case as much of the information remains classified; however, current and former government officials agreed to discuss the case on condition of anonymity. Two U.S. counter-terrorism officials told Newsweek that they believe the information that Powell cited about al-Iraqi came exclusively from al-Libi.<ref name=\"9991919/site/newsweek/\">\n</ref> A CIA officer told the United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence that while the CIA believes al-Libi fabricated information, the CIA cannot determine whether, or what portions of, the original statements or the later recants are true of false. The Senate report concluded that \"The Intelligence Community has found no postwar information to indicate that Iraq provided CBW training to al-Qa'ida.\" (For more information, see Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda timeline for 1995 and December 2005).\n\nSeveral official investigations by U.S. intelligence agencies, foreign intelligence agencies, and independent investigative bodies have looked into various aspects of the alleged links between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda. Every single investigation has resulted in the conclusion that the data examined did not provide compelling evidence of a cooperative relationship between the two entities.\n\nAfter the attack on the World Trade Center in 1993, there were several investigations of possible collaboration between Saddam Hussein and the terrorists who attacked the building. Neil Herman, who headed the FBI investigation into the attack, noted that despite Yasin's presence in Baghdad, there was no evidence of Iraqi support for the attack. \"We looked at that rather extensively,\" he told CNN terrorism expert Peter Bergen. \"There were no ties to the Iraqi government.\" Bergen writes, \"In sum, by the mid-'90s, the Joint Terrorism Task Force in New York, the F.B.I., the U.S. Attorney's office in the Southern District of New York, the C.I.A., the N.S.C., and the State Department had all found no evidence implicating the Iraqi government in the first Trade Center attack.\"\n\nIn 1998, Daniel Benjamin, who headed the National Security Council's counterterrorism division, led an exercise aimed at a critical analysis of the CIA's contention that Iraq and al Qaeda would not team up. \"This was a red-team effort,\" he said. \"We looked at this as an opportunity to disprove the conventional wisdom, and basically we came to the conclusion that the CIA had this one right.\" Benjamin later told Boston Globe reporters, \"No one disputes that there have been contacts over the years. In that part of the America-hating universe, contacts happen. But that's still a long way from suggesting that they were really working together.\"\n\nTen days after the September 11 attacks, President Bush receives a classified President's Daily Brief (that had been prepared at his request) indicating that the U.S. intelligence community had no evidence linking Saddam Hussein to the September 11th attacks and that there was \"scant credible evidence that Iraq had any significant collaborative ties with Al Qaeda.\" The PDB writes off the few contacts that existed between Saddam's government and al-Qaeda as attempts to monitor the group rather than attempts to work with them. According to the \"National Journal\", \"Much of the contents of the PDB were later incorporated, albeit in a slightly different form, into a lengthier CIA analysis examining not only Al Qaeda's contacts with Iraq, but also Iraq's support for international terrorism.\" This PDB was one of the documents the Bush Administration refused to turn over to the Senate Report of Pre-war Intelligence on Iraq, even on a classified basis, and refuses to discuss other than to acknowledge its existence.\n\nAfter the allegation surfaced that 9/11 hijacker Mohamed Atta was seen in Prague in 2001 meeting with an Iraqi diplomat, a number of investigations looked into the possibility that this had occurred. All of them concluded that all known evidence suggested that such a meeting was unlikely at best. The January 2003 CIA report \"Iraqi Support for Terrorism\" noted that \"the most reliable reporting to date casts doubt on this possibility\" that such a meeting occurred. (See below). Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet released \"the most complete public assessment by the agency on the issue\" in a statement to the Senate Armed Services Committee in July 2004, stating that the CIA was \"increasingly skeptical\" any such meeting took place. John McLaughlin, who at the time was the Deputy Director of the CIA, described the extent of the Agency's investigation into the claim: \"Well, on something like the Atta meeting in Prague, we went over that every which way from Sunday. We looked at it from every conceivable angle. We peeled open the source, examined the chain of acquisition. We looked at photographs. We looked at timetables. We looked at who was where and when. It is wrong to say that we didn't look at it. In fact, we looked at it with extraordinary care and intensity and fidelity.\" A \"New York Times\" investigation involving \"extensive interviews with leading Czech figures\" reported that Czech officials had backed off the claim. Both the FBI and the Czech police chief investigated the issue and came to similar conclusions; FBI director Robert S. Mueller III noted that the FBI's investigation \"ran down literally hundreds of thousands of leads and checked every record we could get our hands on, from flight reservations to car rentals to bank accounts.\" The 9/11 Commission investigation, which looked over both the FBI and Czech intelligence investigations, concluded that \"[n]o evidence has been found that Atta was in the Czech Republic in April 2001.\" The Commission still could not \"absolutely rule out the possibility\" that Atta was in Prague on 9 April traveling under an alias, but the Commission concluded that \"There was no reason for such a meeting, especially considering the risk it would pose to the operation. By April 2001, all four pilots had completed most of their training, and the muscle hijackers were about to begin entering the United States. The available evidence does not support the original Czech report of an Atta-Ani meeting.\" (p. 229)\n\nIn February 2002, the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency issued Defense Intelligence Terrorism Summary No. 044-02, the existence of which was revealed on 9 December 2005, by Doug Jehl in the New York Times, which impugned the credibility of information gleaned from captured al Qaeda leader Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi. The DIA report suggested that al-Libi had been \"intentionally misleading\" his interrogators. The DIA report also cast significant doubt on the possibility of a Saddam Hussein-al-Qaeda conspiracy: \"Saddam's regime is intensely secular and is wary of Islamic revolutionary movements. Moreover, Baghdad is unlikely to provide assistance to a group it cannot control.\"\n\nIn April 2002, the DIA assessed that \"there was no credible reporting on al-Qa'ida training at Salman Pak or anywhere else in Iraq.\n\nIn October 2002, a British Intelligence investigation of possible links between Iraq and al-Qaeda and the possibility of Iraqi WMD attacks issued a report concluding: \"al Qaeda has shown interest in gaining chemical and biological expertise from Iraq, but we do not know whether any such training was provided. We have no intelligence of current cooperation between Iraq and al Qaeda and do not believe that al Qaeda plans to conduct terrorist attacks under Iraqi direction.\n\nIn January 2003, the CIA released a special Report to Congress entitled \"Iraqi Support for Terrorism\". The report concludes that \"In contrast to the patron-client pattern between Iraq and its Palestinian surrogates, the relationship between Iraq and al-Qaida appears to more closely resemble that of two independent actors trying to exploit each other—their mutual suspicion suborned by al-Qaida's interest in Iraqi assistance, and Baghdad's interest in al-Qaida's anti-U.S. attacks. … The Intelligence Community has no credible information that Baghdad had foreknowledge of the 11 September attacks or any other al-Qaida strike.\" (See below). Michael Scheuer, the main researcher assigned to review the research into the project, described the review and his conclusions: \"For about four weeks in late 2002 and early 2003, I and several others were engaged full time in searching CIA files—seven days a week, often far more than eight hours a day. At the end of the effort, we had gone back ten years in the files and had reviewed nearly twenty thousand documents that amounted to well over fifty thousand pages of materials. ... There was no information that remotely supported the analysis that claimed there was a strong working relationship between Iraq and al Qaeda. I was embarrassed because this reality invalidated the analysis I had presented on the subject in my book. Scheuer states that he was not part of the analysis team that produced \"Iraqi Support for Terrorism\", but that he was the main researcher reviewing the evidence and conclusions of that report. According to the SSCI report, \"\"Iraqi Support for Terrorism\" contained the following summary judgments regarding Iraq's provision of training to al-Qaida: Regarding the Iraq-al-Qa'ida relationship, reporting from sources of varying reliability points to ... incidents of training. ... The most disturbing aspect of the relationship is the dozen or so reports of varying reliability mentioning the involvement of Iraq or Iraqi nationals in al-Qa'ida's efforts to obtain CBW training.\" The report questioned the information coming from captured al-Qaeda leader Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi, stating \"the detainee was not in a position to know if any training had taken place.\" Despite this, Colin Powell cited al-Libi's claims in his speech to the United Nations Security Council in February 2003. (See above). The next day, President Bush gave a brief talk at the Roosevelt Room in the White House with Powell by his side and stated the following: \"One of the greatest dangers we face is that weapons of mass destruction might be passed to terrorists who would not hesitate to use those weapons. ... Iraq has bomb-making and document forgery experts to work with Al Qaeda. Iraq has also provided Al Qaeda with chemical and biological weapons training.\" Michele Davis, a spokeswoman for the National Security Council, told Newsweek that it was impossible to determine whether the dissent from the DIA and questions raised by the CIA were seen by officials at the White House prior to the president's remarks. A counter-terrorism official told Newsweek that while CIA reports on al-Libi were distributed widely around U.S. intelligence agencies and policy-making offices, many such routine reports are not regularly read by senior policy-making officials. Davis also stated that President Bush's remarks were \"based on what was put forward to him as the views of the intelligence community\" and that those views came from \"an aggregation\" of sources. \"Newsweek\" reported that \"The new documents also raise the possibility that caveats raised by intelligence analysts about al-Libi's claims were withheld from Powell when he was preparing his Security Council speech. Larry Wilkerson, who served as Powell's chief of staff and oversaw the vetting of Powell's speech, responded to an e-mail from \"Newsweek\" Wednesday stating that he was unaware of the DIA doubts about al-Libi at the time the speech was being prepared. 'We never got any dissent with respect to those lines you cite … indeed the entire section that now we know came from [al-Libi],' Wilkerson wrote.\"\n\nIn January 2003, British intelligence completed a classified report on Iraq that concluded that \"there are no current links between the Iraqi regime and the al-Qaeda network.\" The report was leaked to the BBC, who published information about it on February 5, the same day Colin Powell addressed the United Nations. According to BBC, the report \"says al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden views Iraq's ruling Ba'ath party as running contrary to his religion, calling it an 'apostate regime'. 'His aims are in ideological conflict with present day Iraq,' it says.\" The BBC reported that former British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw insisted that intelligence had shown that the Iraqi regime appeared to be allowing a permissive environment \"in which al-Qaeda is able to operate...Certainly we have some evidence of links between al-Qaeda and various people in Iraq...What we don't know, and the prime minister and I have made it very clear, is the extent of those links...What we also know, however, is that the Iraqi regime have been up to their necks in the pursuit of terrorism generally.\"\n\nIn February 2003, Israeli intelligence sources told the Associated Press that no link has been conclusively established between Saddam and Al Qaeda. According to the AP story, \"Boaz Ganor, an Israeli counter-terrorism expert, told the AP he knows of no Iraqi ties to terror groups, beyond Baghdad's relationship with Palestinian militias and possibly Osama bin Laden's Al Qaeda... A senior Israeli security source told the AP that Israel has not yet found evidence of an Iraqi-Palestinian-Al Qaeda triangle, and that several investigations into possible Al Qaeda ties to Palestinian militias have so far not yielded substantial results. Ganor said Al Qaeda has put out feelers to Palestinian groups, but ties are at a very preliminary stage.\"\n\nIn October 2003, Douglas J. Feith, undersecretary of defense for policy and head of the controversial Office of Special Plans, sent a memo to Congress that included \"a classified annex containing a list and description of the requested reports, so that the committee could obtain the reports from the relevant members of the intelligence community. ... The classified annex was not an analysis of the substantive issue of the relationship between Iraq and al Qaeda, and it drew no conclusions.\" The memo was subsequently leaked to the media and became the foundation for reports in the \"Weekly Standard\" by Stephen F. Hayes. W. Patrick Lang, former head of the Middle East section of Defense Intelligence Agency, called the Feith memo \"a listing of a mass of unconfirmed reports, many of which themselves indicate that the two groups continued to try to establish some sort of relationship. If they had such a productive relationship, why did they have to keep trying?\" Daniel Benjamin criticized the memo as well, noting that \"in any serious intelligence review, much of the material presented would quickly be discarded.\" A Pentagon press release warned: \"Individuals who leak or purport to leak classified information are doing serious harm to national security; such activity is deplorable and may be illegal.\"\n\nIn January 2004, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace scholars Joseph Cirincione, Jessica Tuchman Mathews, and George Perkovich publish their study \"WMD in Iraq: Evidence and Implications\", which looked into Saddam's relationship with al-Qaeda and concluded that \"although there have been periodic meetings between Iraqi and Al Qaeda agents, and visits by Al Qaeda agents to Baghdad, the most intensive searching over the last two years has produced no solid evidence of a cooperative relationship between Saddam's government and Al Qaeda.\" The study also found \"some evidence that there were no operational links\" between the two entities.\n\nDuring the Interrogation of Saddam Hussein in the first half of 2004, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Special Agent George Piro had a series of 25 face-to-face meetings with Saddam Hussein, while he was held as a prisoner of war at the United States' military detention facility at Baghdad International Airport. The reports Piro filed during the interrogation process were declassified and released in 2009 under a U.S. Freedom of Information Act request. Hussein had reportedly maintained that he did not collaborate with Al-Qaeda, said he feared Al-Qaeda would have turned on him, and was quoted calling Osama bin Laden a \"zealot.\"\n\nThe official report issued by the 9/11 Commission in July 2004 addressed the issue of a possible conspiracy between the government of Iraq and al-Qaeda in the September 11 attacks. The report addressed specific allegations of contacts between al-Qaeda and members of Saddam Hussein's government and concluded that there was no evidence that such contacts developed into a collaborative operational relationship, and that they did not cooperate to commit terrorist attacks against the United States. The report includes the following information:\n\nLooking at pre-war intelligence on Iraq, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence examined \"the quality and quantity of U.S. intelligence on Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, ties to terrorist groups, Saddam Hussein's threat to stability and security in the region, and his repression of his own people;\" and \"the objectivity, reasonableness, independence, and accuracy of the judgments reached by the Intelligence Community\". In Section 12 of the report, titled \"Iraq's Links to Terrorism\", the Senate committee examined the CIA's \"five primary finished intelligence products on Iraq's links to terrorism.\" The report focused specifically on the CIA's 2003 study. After examining all the intelligence, the Senate committee concluded that the CIA had accurately assessed that contacts between Saddam Hussein's regime and members of al-Qaeda \"did not add up to an established formal relationship.\"\n\nIn a subsection titled \"Iraq's Relationship with al-Qaida\", the report states the following:\n\nThe CIA assessed that: Regarding the Iraq-al-Qaeda relationship, reporting from sources of varying reliability points to a number of contacts, incidents of training, and discussions of Iraqi safehaven for Usama bin Laden and his organization dating from the early 1990s. Iraq's interaction with al-Qaeda is impelled by mutual antipathy toward the United States and the Saudi royal family and by bin Ladin's interest in unconventional weapons and relocation sites. The relationship between Iraq and al-Qaeda appears to more closely resemble that of two independent actors trying to exploit each other - their mutual suspicion suborned by al-Qaeda's interest in Iraqi assistance, and Baghdad's interest in al-Qaida's anti-U.S. attacks. The Intelligence Community has no credible information that Baghdad had foreknowledge of the 11 September attacks or any other al-Qaeda strike, but continues to pursue all leads.\n\nThe report continued by stating:\n\nDue to the limited amount and questionable quality of reporting on the leadership intentions of Saddam Hussein and Usama bin Ladin, the CIA was unable to make conclusive assessments in \"Iraqi Support for Terrorism\" regarding Iraq's relationship with al-Qaeda. The CIA stated in the Scope Note: Our knowledge of Iraq's ties to terrorism is evolving...This paper's conclusions-especially regarding the difficult and elusive question of the exact nature of Iraq's relations with al-Qaeda-are based on currently available information that is at times contradictory and derived from sources with varying degrees of reliability...While our understanding of Iraq's overall connections to al-Qaeda has grown considerably, our appreciation of these links is still emerging.\n\nIn Section 13 of the report, titled \"Intelligence Community Collection Activities Against Iraq's links to Terrorism\", the report stated the following:\n\nBased on the information the CIA made available to the Senate Committee, the committee published a series of conclusions in the Senate Report of Pre-war Intelligence on Iraq. These included the following:\n\nIn August, the CIA finished another assessment of the question of Saddam's links to al-Qaeda. This assessment had been requested by the office of the Vice President, who asked specifically that the CIA take another look at the possibility that Jordanian terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi constituted a link between Saddam and al-Qaeda, as Colin Powell had claimed in his speech to the United Nations Security Council. The assessment concluded that there was no evidence that Saddam Hussein's regime harbored Jordanian terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. A U.S. official familiar with the new CIA assessment said intelligence analysts were unable to determine conclusively the nature of the relationship between al-Zarqawi and Saddam. \"It's still being worked,\" he said. \"It (the assessment) ... doesn't make clear-cut, bottom-line judgments\" about whether Saddam's regime was aiding al-Zarqawi. The official told Knight Ridder \"What is indisputable is that Zarqawi was operating out of Baghdad and was involved in a lot of bad activities,\" but that the report didn't conclude that Saddam's regime had provided \"aid, comfort and succor\" to al-Zarqawi. According to Knight Ridder, \"Some officials believe that Saddam's secular regime kept an eye on al-Zarqawi, but didn't actively assist him.\" Knight Ridder reporters called the CIA study \"the latest assessment that calls into question one of President Bush's key justifications for last year's U.S.-led invasion of Iraq.\"\n\nIn October 2005, the CIA updated the 2004 report to conclude that Saddam's regime \"did not have a relationship, harbor, or even turn a blind eye toward Mr. Zarqawi and his associates,\" according to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (see 2006 report below). Two counterterrorism analysts told Newsweek that Zarqawi did likely receive medical treatment in Baghdad in 2002, but that Saddam's government may never have known Zarqawi was in Iraq because Zarqawi used \"false cover.\" An intelligence official also told Newsweek the current draft of the report says that \"most evidence suggests Saddam Hussein did not provide Zarqawi safe haven before the war. It also recognizes that there are still unanswered questions and gaps in knowledge about the relationship.\" According to Newsweek, \"The most recent CIA analysis is an update—based on fresh reporting from Iraq and interviews with former Saddam officials—of a classified report that analysts in the CIA's Directorate of Intelligence first produced more than a year ago.\"\n\nIn February 2006, the Pentagon published a study of the so-called Harmony database documents captured in Afghanistan. While the study did not look specifically at allegations of Iraq's ties to al-Qaeda, it did analyze papers that offer insight into the history of the movement and tensions among the leadership. In particular, it found evidence that al-Qaeda jihadists had viewed Saddam as an \"infidel\" and cautioned against working with him.\n\nIn September 2006, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence released two reports constituting Phase II of its study of pre-war intelligence claims regarding Iraq's pursuit of WMD and alleged links to al-Qaeda. These bipartisan reports included \"Findings about Iraq's WMD Programs and Links to Terrorism and How they Compare with Prewar Assessments\" and \"The Use by the Intelligence Community of Information Provided by the Iraqi National Congress\". The reports concluded, according to David Stout of the \"New York Times\", that \"there is no evidence that Saddam Hussein had prewar ties to Al Qaeda and one of the terror organization's most notorious members, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.\" The \"Postwar Findings\" volume of the study concluded that there was no evidence of any Iraqi support of al-Qaeda, al-Zarqawi, or Ansar al-Islam. The \"Iraqi National Congress\" volume concluded that \"false information\" from INC-affiliated sources was used to justify key claims in the prewar intelligence debate and that this information was \"widely distributed in intelligence products\" prior to the war. It also concluded that the INC \"attempted to influence US policy on Iraq by providing false information through defectors directed at convincing the United States that Iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction and had links to terrorists.\" The Senate report noted that in October 2002, \"the DIA cautioned that the INC was penetrated by hostile intelligence services and would use the relationship to promote its own agenda.\"\n\nSenator John Rockefeller, the Committee's ranking Democrat, noted that \"Today's reports show that the administration's repeated allegations of a past, present and future relationship between al Qaeda and Iraq were wrong and intended to exploit the deep sense of insecurity among Americans in the immediate aftermath of the September 11th attacks.\" But the head Republican on the Committee, Senator Pat Roberts, charged, \"The additional views of the Committee's Democrats are little more than a rehashing of the same unfounded allegations they've used for over three years.\"\n\nThe \"Postwar Findings\" report had the following conclusions about Saddam's alleged links to al-Qaeda:\n\nConclusion 1: The CIA's assessment that Iraq and al-Qaeda were \"two independent actors trying to exploit each other\" was accurate only about al-Qaeda. \"Postwar findings indicate that Saddam Hussein was distrustful of al-Qa'ida and viewed Islamic extremists as a threat to his regime, refusing all requests from al-Qa'ida to provide material or operational support.\"\n\nConclusion 2: Postwar findings have indicated that there was only one meeting between representatives of Saddam Hussein and representatives of al-Qaeda. These findings also identified two occasions \"not reported prior to the war, in which Saddam Hussein rebuffed meeting requests from an al-Qa'ida operative. The Intelligence Community has not found any other evidence of meetings between al-Qa'ida and Iraq.\"\n\nConclusion 3: \"Prewar Intelligence Community assessments were inconsistent regarding the likelihood that Saddam Hussein provided chemical and biological weapons (CBW) training to al-Qa'ida. Postwar findings support the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) February 2002 assessment that Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi was likely intentionally misleading his debriefers when he said that Iraq provided two al-Qa'ida associates with chemical and biological weapons (CBW) training in 2000... No postwar information has been found that indicates CBW training occurred and the detainee who provided the key prewar reporting about this training recanted his claims after the war.\"\n\nConclusion 4: \"Postwar findings support the April 2002 Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) assessment that there was no credible reporting on al-Qa'ida training at Salman Pak or anywhere else in Iraq. There have been no credible reports since the war that Iraq trained al-Qa'ida operatives at Salman Pak to conduct or support transnational terrorist operations.\"\n\nConclusion 5: Postwar findings support the assessment that Abu Musab al-Zarqawi and associates were present in Baghdad from May–November 2002. \"Prewar assessments expressed uncertainty about Iraq's complicity in their presence, but overestimated the Iraqi regime's capabilities to locate them. Postwar information indicates that Saddam Hussein attempted, unsuccessfully, to locate and capture al-Zarqawi and that the regime did not have a relationship with, harbor, or turn a blind eye toward Zarqawi.\"\n\nConclusion 6: Prewar interactions between Saddam Hussein's government and al-Qaeda affiliate group Ansar al-Islam were attempts by Saddam to spy on the group rather than to support or work with them. \"Postwar information reveals that Baghdad viewed Ansar al-Islam as a threat to the regime and that the IIS attempted to collect intelligence on the group.\"\n\nConclusion 7: \"Postwar information supports prewar Intelligence Community assessments that there was no credible information that Iraq was complicit in or had foreknowledge of the September 11 attacks or any other al-Qa'ida strike... Postwar findings support CIA's January 2003 assessment, which judged that 'the most reliable reporting casts doubt' on one of the leads, an alleged meeting between Muhammad Atta and an Iraqi intelligence officer in Prague, and confirm that no such meeting occurred. Prewar intelligence reporting cast doubt on the other lead as well.\"\n\nConclusion 8: \"No postwar information indicates that Iraq intended to use al-Qa'ida or any other terrorist group to strike the United States homeland before or during Operation Iraqi Freedom.\"\n\nConclusion 9: \"additional reviews of documents recovered in Iraq are unlikely to provide information that would contradict the Committee's findings or conclusions. The Committee believes that the results of detainee debriefs largely comport with documentary evidence, but the Committee cannot definitively judge the accuracy of statements made by individuals in custody and cannot, in every case, confirm that the detainee statements are truthful and accurate.\"\n\nAccording to the SSCI report:\n\nThe CIA has not published a \"fully researched, coordinated and approved position\" on the postwar reporting on the former regime's links to al-Qa'ida, but has published such a paper on the postwar reporting of Abu Mus'ad al-Zarqawi and the former regime (see above). The CIA told the Committee that regarding Iraq's links to terrorism, \"the research the Counterterrorist Center has done on this issue has called into question some of the reports of contacts and training...revealed other contacts of which we were unaware, and shed new light on some contacts that appeared in prewar reporting. On balance, this research suggests that the prewar judgment remains valid.\n\nAccording to the SSCI report:\n\nThe initial DocEx review focused on searching for WMD related documents, but the DIA also examined the documents for material related to Iraq's link to terrorism. DIA officials explicitly stated that they did not believe that the initial review process missed any documents of major significance regarding Iraq's links to terrorism. During an interview with Committee staff, the lead DIA analyst who follows the issue of possible connections between the Iraqi government and al-Qa'ida noted that the DIA \"continues to maintain that there was no partnership between the two organizations. (Page 63) \n\nAccording to the report:\n\nThe FBI does not have formal efforts underway to review the prewar relationship between the former Iraqi regime and al-Qa'ida. The FBI continues to analyze information and intelligence on Iraq, particularly in its conduct of interviews of high value targets and participation in document exploitation. The FBI provided the Committee with particularly useful information from the debrief of Saddam Hussein and several high-ranking Iraqi intelligence officers. (page 134) \n\nAfter the release of the report, Condoleezza Rice told Fox News Sunday that she did not remember seeing that particular report and asserted that \"there were ties between Iraq and al-Qaeda.\" In an interview with Tim Russert on Meet the Press, Vice President Cheney stated, \"We've never been able to confirm any connection between Iraq and 9/11.\" However, Cheney asserted that there was nevertheless a connection between Iraq and al-Qaeda, citing Zarqawi's presence in Baghdad and DCI George Tenet's claim of \"a relationship that went back at least a decade.\" When pressed about the Senate Report, Cheney acknowledged, \"I haven't seen the report. I haven't had a chance to read it yet.\"\n\nIn February 2007, the Pentagon's inspector general issued a report that concluded that Feith's Office of Special Plans, an office in the Pentagon run by Douglas Feith that was the source of most of the misleading intelligence on al-Qaeda and Iraq, had \"developed, produced, and then disseminated alternative intelligence assessments on the Iraq and al Qaida relationship, which included some conclusions that were inconsistent with the consensus of the Intelligence Community, to senior decision-makers.\" The report found that these actions were \"inappropriate\" though not \"illegal.\" Senator Carl Levin, Chair of the Senate Armed Services Committee, stated that \"The bottom line is that intelligence relating to the Iraq-al-Qaeda relationship was manipulated by high-ranking officials in the Department of Defense to support the administration's decision to invade Iraq. The inspector general's report is a devastating condemnation of inappropriate activities in the DOD policy office that helped take this nation to war.\"\n\nNevertheless, Feith stated that he \"felt vindicated\" by the report's conclusion that what he did was not \"unlawful.\" He told the \"Washington Post\" that his office produced \"a criticism of the consensus of the intelligence community,\" and he acknowledged that he \"was not endorsing its substance.\"\n\nIn March 2008, a Pentagon-sponsored study was released, entitled \"Saddam and Terrorism: Emerging Insights from Captured Iraqi Documents,\" based on the review of more than 600,000 Iraqi documents captured after the 2003 US invasion. The study \"found no 'smoking gun' (i.e., direct connection) between Saddam's Iraq and al Qaeda.\" It did note that in the early 1990s \"Saddam supported groups that either associated directly with al Qaeda (such as the Egyptian Islamic Jihad, led at one time by bin Laden's deputy, Ayman al-Zawahiri) or that generally shared al Qaeda's stated goals and objectives.\"\n\nThe abstract states that,\n\nwhile these documents do not reveal direct coordination and assistance between the Saddam regime and the al Qaeda network, they do indicate that Saddam was willing to use, albeit cautiously, operatives affiliated with al Qaeda as long as Saddam could have these terrorist–operatives monitored closely... This created both the appearance of and, in some ways, a 'de facto' link between the organizations. At times, these organizations would work together in pursuit of shared goals but still maintain their autonomy and independence because of innate caution and mutual distrust.\n\nFurther:\n\nThe report also stated that \"captured documents reveal that the regime was willing to co-opt or support organizations it knew to be part of al Qaeda.\" In July 2001, the Director for International Intelligence in the IIS had ordered an investigation into a terrorist group called The Army of Muhammad. The investigation revealed the group \"threatened Kuwaiti authorities and plans to attack American and Western interests\" and was working with Osama bin Laden. According to the report, \"A later memorandum from the same collection to the Director\nof the IIS reports that the Army of Muhammad is endeavoring to receive assistance [from Iraq] to implement its objectives, and that the local IIS station has been told to deal with them in accordance with priorities previously established. The IIS agent goes on to inform the Director that 'this organization is an offshoot of bin Laden, but that their objectives are similar but with different names that can be a way of camouflaging the organization.'\"\n\nThe report goes on to point out that while both Saddam and al-Qaeda had a common enemy in the United States, \"the similarities ended there: bin Laden wanted - and still wants - to restore the Islamic caliphate while Saddam, despite his later Islamic rhetoric, dreamed more narrowly of being the secular ruler of a united Arab nation. These competing visions made any significant long-term compromise between them highly unlikely. After all, to the fundamentalist leadership of al Qaeda, Saddam represented the worst kind of \"apostate\" regime - a secular police state well practiced in suppressing internal challenges.\"\n\nAs to Saddam's intentions toward the United States, the report states:\n\nIn the years between the two Gulf Wars, UN sanctions reduced Saddam's ability to shape regional and world events, steadily draining his economic, and military powers. The rise of Islamist fundamentalism in the region gave Saddam the opportunity to make terrorism, one of the few tools remaining in Saddam's \"coercion\" toolbox, not only cost effective but a formal instrument of state power. ... Evidence that was uncovered and analyzed attests to the existence of a terrorist capability and a willingness to use it until the day Saddam was forced to flee Baghdad by Coalition forces.\n\nHowever, the evidence is less clear in terms of Saddam's declared will at the time of OPERATION IRAQI FREEDOM in 2003. Even with access to significant parts of the regime's most secretive archive, the answer to the question of Saddam's will in the final months in power remains elusive.\n\nABC News noted of the report that \"The primary target, however, of Saddam's terror activities was not the United States, and not Israel. \"The predominant targets of Iraqi state terror operations were Iraqi citizens, both inside and outside of Iraq.\" Saddam's primary aim was self-preservation and the elimination of potential internal threats to his power.\n\nIn June 2008, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence released the final part of its Phase II investigation into the intelligence assessments that led to the U.S. invasion and occupation of Iraq; this part of the investigation looked into statements of members of the Bush Administration and compared those statements to what the intelligence community was telling the Administration at the time. The report, endorsed by eight Democrats and two Republicans on the Committee, concluded that \"Statements and implications by the President and Secretary of State suggesting that Iraq and al-Qa'ida had a partnership, or that Iraq had provided al-Qa'ida with weapons training, were not substantiated by the intelligence.\" The report concluded that \"Statements ... regarding Iraq's contacts with al-Qa'ida were substantiated by intelligence information. However, policymakers' statements did not accurately convey the intelligence assessments of the nature of these contacts, and left the impression that the contacts led to substantive Iraqi cooperation or support of al-Qa'ida.\" The report also concluded that \"Statements that Iraq provided safe haven for Abu Musab al-Zarqawi and other al-Qa'ida-related terrorist members were substantiated by the intelligence assessments. Intelligence assessments noted Zarqawi's presence in Iraq and his ability to travel and operate within the country. The intelligence community generally believed that Iraqi intelligence must have known about, and therefore at least tolerated, Zarqawi's presence in the country.\"\n\nThe \"New York Times\" called the report \"especially critical of statements by the president and vice president linking Iraq to Al Qaeda and raising the possibility that Mr. Hussein might supply the terrorist group with unconventional weapons.\" The Chair of the Committee, Senator John D. Rockefeller IV (D-WV), commented in an addendum to the report, \"Representing to the American people that the two had an operational partnership and posed a single, indistinguishable threat was fundamentally misleading and led the nation to war on false premises.\"\n\nIn a minority addendum to the report signed by four Republican dissenters, the Republicans, according to the New York Times, \"suggested that the investigation was a partisan smoke screen to obscure the real story: that the C.I.A. failed the Bush administration by delivering intelligence assessments to policy makers that have since been discredited.\" While the minority Senators do not take issue with the majority's conclusion that there was no evidence of Saddam-al-Qaeda conspiracy, they objected to the manner in which the report was assembled, calling the finished product \"a waste of Committee time and resources.\" According to the dissent, \"the reports essentially validate what we have been saying all along: the policymakers' statements were substantiated by the intelligence...it was the intelligence that was faulty.\" The dissent focused mainly on the Committee's reluctance to include statements made by previous administrations and members of Congress with regard to prewar intelligence. The dissent also objected to the report's conclusion that President Bush and Vice President Cheney made statements that Saddam was \"prepared to give weapons of mass destruction to terrorist groups for attacks against the United States.\" According to the dissent, \"neither President nor the Vice President said this.\" The dissent also complained about the fact that the majority left out of its report \"a handwritten note by a CIA officer at the bottom of one of the drafts [of the President's Cincinnati speech] said that the CIA terrorism analyst had 'read all the terrorism paragraphs and said it was \"all okay\".'\"\n"}
{"id": "40627770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40627770", "title": "Shelter Cluster", "text": "Shelter Cluster\n\nThe Shelter Cluster is an Inter-Agency Standing Committee (IASC) coordination mechanism that supports people affected by natural disasters and conflicts with the means to live in safe, dignified and appropriate shelter.\nThe Shelter Cluster is one of eleven sectorial coordination groups that are part of the Cluster Approach, that followed the Humanitarian Response Review in 2005.\nCurrently 43 humanitarian organizations are part of the Shelter Cluster at global level, more than 500 organizations coordinate shelter assistance with the support of the Shelter Cluster at country level. \n\nThe Shelter Cluster’s scope includes all activities related to achieving the right to adequate housing with a humanitarian focus. This includes:\n\n\nThe Global Shelter Cluster is co-chaired by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC). The IFRC convenes the Shelter Cluster in natural disaster situations. UNHCR leads the Shelter Cluster in conflict situations where there are Internally displaced persons, whereas in refugee situations the core mandate of UNHCR takes precedence over the cluster system.\nThe IFRC is convening the Cluster and not leading it because, as a neutral and impartial organization, it cannot be part of the command structure of the United Nations. This difference was formalized in Memorandum of Understanding between the IFRC and The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.\n\nThe structure of the Global Shelter Cluster includes:\n\n\nThe Shelter Cluster’s structure also include working groups, communities of practice and other support mechanisms.\n\nSince its inception in 2006, the Shelter Cluster has coordinated humanitarian shelter assistance in 43 responses.\n"}
{"id": "13440107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13440107", "title": "Solís Theatre", "text": "Solís Theatre\n\nSolís Theatre (\"Spanish\": Teatro Solís) is Uruguay's most important and renowned theatre. It opened in 1856 and the building was designed by the Italian architect Carlo Zucchi. It is located in Montevideo's Old Town, right next to the Plaza Independencia.\n\nIn 1998, the government of Montevideo started a major reconstruction of the theatre, which included two columns designed by Philippe Starck. The reconstruction was completed in 2004 with the re-opening taking place in August of that year.\nAcoustic studies of the rehabilitation project was entrusted to Jerome Falala of the French studio \"Avel Acoustique\".\nTomás Giribaldi's \"La Parisina\", considered the first Uruguayan national opera, was premiered at the Solís on September 14, 1878.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21579409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21579409", "title": "Stanford Financial Group", "text": "Stanford Financial Group\n\nThe Stanford Financial Group was a privately held international group of financial services companies controlled by Allen Stanford, until it was seized by United States (U.S.) authorities in early 2009. \nHeadquartered in the Galleria Tower II in Uptown Houston, Texas, it had 50 offices in several countries, mainly in the Americas, included the Stanford International Bank, and said it managed US$8.5 billion of assets for more than 30,000 clients in 136 countries on six continents. On February 17, 2009, U.S. Federal agents placed the company into receivership due to charges of fraud. Ten days later, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission amended its complaint to accuse Stanford of turning the company into a \"massive Ponzi scheme\".\n\nAllen Stanford traced his company to the insurance company founded in 1932 in Mexia, Texas, by his grandfather, Lodis B. Stanford. However, there was no direct connection between the insurance company and Allen Stanford's banking business, which he started on the British Overseas Territory of Montserrat in the West Indies in the 1980s. Allen Stanford's move into banking utilised funds he had made in real estate in Houston in the early 1980s.\n\nIn 2008, Stanford Financial Group announced it would open a new global management complex in St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands, to include the base for the corporate support functions such as business technology, compliance, finance, human resources, investment strategy and legal, as well as the chairman's office. Completion was planned for July 2009 but did not occur due to the company's dissolution.\n\nThe company was bound by a web of personal and family ties. Stanford's chief financial officer and second-in-command, James M. Davis, was his roommate at Baylor University. The chief investment officer, Laura Pendergest-Holt, grew up attending a church in Baldwyn, Mississippi where Davis was a Sunday school teacher. Many top officials were related to each other. This led former employees to claim the company was fraught with nepotism; former executive Charles Satterfield told Bloomberg News that whenever someone asked questions, a common response was \"I'm not going to question my brother-in-law.\"\n\nStanford Financial Group comprised several affiliated companies:\n\nIn 2007, Stanford Financial Group assumed title sponsorship of the Stanford St. Jude Championship, a top PGA Tour event to benefit St. Jude Children's Research Hospital of Memphis, Tennessee. On March 20, 2009, after the Group's fraud was revealed, the PGA announced that they would be dropping their affiliation with the company and that for 2009 the event would be called the St. Jude's Classic.\n\nStanford Financial Group was the lead financier for the 2007 film \"The Ultimate Gift\". According to the Association for Healthcare Philanthropy, the story of \"The Ultimate Gift\" promoted philanthropy in not-for-profit health care institutions.\n\nThe group established a significant presence in golf, polo, tennis, cricket and sailing, sports which were popular among Stanford’s wealthy clients. Stanford Financial Group was the title sponsor for such sporting events as the Stanford U.S. Open Polo Championship, the Stanford USPA Silver Cup, the Stanford Antigua Sailing Week, the PGA Tour Stanford St. Jude Championship, and the Stanford International Pro-Am. Stanford also sponsored professional golfers Vijay Singh, Camilo Villegas and David Toms as well as Morgan Pressel on the LPGA Tour. In tennis, the company was a sponsor of the Sony Ericsson Open. Stanford also sponsored the Champions Series Tennis Tournaments featuring Jim Courier, John McEnroe and Pete Sampras.\n\nThe Stanford Financial Tour Championship, previously known as the LPGA Playoffs at The ADT and the ADT Championship, was the season-ending golf tournament on the US-based LPGA Tour. Beginning with the 2009 event, it was to be sponsored by Stanford Financial Group.\n\nAs one of the founding partners, Stanford Financial Group was also involved in Tiger Woods's annual golf tournament, the AT&T National.\n\nDuring the week of February 13, 2009, Stanford issued a letter to clients saying: \"Regulatory officers have visited our offices and have stated that these are routine examinations\". On February 17, 2009, U.S. Federal agents entered the company's Houston and Memphis offices. Law enforcement officials placed signs on the office doors stating that the company was temporarily closed: \"The company is still in operation but under the management of a receiver\".\n\nThe Securities Exchange Commission's (SEC) charged Allen Stanford, Pendergest-Holt and Davis of fraud in connection with Stanford Financial Group's US$8 billion certificate of deposit (CD) investment scheme that offered \"improbable and unsubstantiated high interest rates\". This led the Federal government to freeze the assets of Allen Stanford, Stanford International Bank, Stanford Group Co., and Stanford Capital Management. In addition, Stanford International Bank placed a 60-day moratorium on early redemptions of its CDs.\n\nOn February 18 and 19, 2009, Ecuador and Peru suspended the operations of local Stanford units, and, in Venezuela and Panama, the governments seized local units of Stanford Bank. Mexico's financial regulator announced on February 19 that it was investigating the local affiliate of Stanford bank for possible violation of banking laws.\n\nOn February 27, 2009, Stanford official Laura Pendergest-Holt was arrested by Federal agents in connection with the alleged fraud. On that day the SEC said that Stanford and his accomplices operated a \"massive Ponzi scheme\", misappropriated billions of dollars of investors' money and falsified the Stanford International Bank's records to hide their fraud. \"Stanford International Bank's financial statements, including its investment income, are fictional,\" the SEC said.\n\nUnited States District Judge David Godbey froze all of the Stanford personal and corporate assets. Godbey gave them to Ralph Janvey, a Dallas receiver; Janvey will retain control until the SEC suit is resolved. A British receiver took the Antigua-based Stanford International Bank.\n\nOn July 1, 2009, James M. Davis, the CFO of the company, agreed to change course from his not guilty plea and plead guilty to three charges related to the Ponzi scheme fraud, once details can be worked out.\n\nOn November 13, 2009 The US District Court Ordered Brokerage Accounts to be transferred to Dominick & Dominick LLC. The transfer became effective on January 20, 2010.\n\nIn 2011, an auction of Stanford's goods was held in Houston.\n\nOn March 19, 2012 the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals overturned a federal judge’s ruling from the previous year that threw out three class action lawsuits that are trying to use state laws to recover investor losses resulting from Stanford’s scheme. The ruling allows lawsuits by investors who lost millions in Stanford Ponzi scheme to go forward against several 3rd parties.\n\nStanford was headquartered in the Galleria Tower II in Uptown Houston, Texas, U.S. Previously the company was headquartered in 5050 Westheimer Road, a three-story, building across from The Galleria. Jennifer Dawson of the \"Houston Business Journal\" described the facility as \"high-end office digs.\" By 2007 Stanford's headquarters moved to Galleria Tower II.\n\nOn May 18, 2010 the receiver entered into a stalking horse contract for the sale of 5050 Westheimer Road. During that month Black Forest Ventures LLC was the designated bidder to defeat at the auction, with a minimum bid being $12.5 million. The auction was scheduled to be held on Thursday June 24, 2010 at the offices of Baker Botts, L.L.P. in One Shell Plaza in Downtown Houston. The auction was canceled due to a lack of bids, and Black Forest's stipulated that it would acquire the building for $12.2 million. Black Forest bought the 5050 Westheimer building in July 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "28710890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28710890", "title": "Teatro Pergolesi", "text": "Teatro Pergolesi\n\nThe Teatro Comunale Pergolesi is an opera house in Jesi, Italy. It was originally named the Teatro della Concordia when it was the rival to the original 1732 opera house in the city, the Teatro del Leone. That theatre was active until 1791, but it was destroyed by fire in 1892.\n\nThe concept of the Concordia began in 1790 with a request to the city government to allow construction of a new opera house on the Plaza della Morte (now the Plaza della Republica), an area in need of re-development and revival. The city agreed on the basis of holding two boxes for itself and, with some interruptions for a variety of reasons, completion was achieved in time for the opening during the Carnival of 1798 with Portogallo's \"Lo spazzacamino principe\". The house consisted of four tiers of boxes, 100 in total, all sold to wealthy subscribers.\n\nModifications took place in 1835 to create a gallery by removing the fourth tier of boxes and creating a better entrance to the orchestra level. The 170th anniversary of the composer local-born composer Giovanni Battista Pergolesi caused the renaming in his honour, although as is noted, it took a further three years for this to come into effect.\n\nBy 1925 the need for repairs had grown acute and the surviving heirs of the original construction, the Società Teatrale, were unable to continue to support the theatre, which in March 1929 was acquired by the city.\n\nThe theatre is still in use today, \"one of the few opera houses in Italy from the late 1700s that has never been destroyed by fire or bombs\" It was completely renovated in 1995 and is currently managed by the Pergolesi Spontini Foundation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24179542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24179542", "title": "The Lorax (TV special)", "text": "The Lorax (TV special)\n\nThe Lorax is a musical animated short produced by DePatie–Freleng Enterprises which first aired as a television special on CBS on February 14, 1972. It is based on the book of the same name by Dr. Seuss.\n\nOne night, a young boy living in a polluted, grim world wanders down 'the street of the lifted Lorax.' Along the dark street, he comes to the residence of a creature named The Once-ler, a dark green-colored being whose face is never seen. He takes up an audience with the boy, and begins to explain the tale regarding the Lorax.\n\nThe land once thrived with Truffula trees when the Once-ler first came to the area in a horse-drawn cart. Living among the foliage are the brown Bar-ba-Loots, who eat Truffula fruit from the local trees. In the nearby pond live the Humming Fish, and overhead fly the Swanee Swans. The trees amaze the Once-ler with their texture and scent, and he soon builds a small shop in the area. After cutting down a Truffula tree, the Lorax pops out of its stump. The Lorax claims to speak for the trees, and demands to know what the Once-ler is doing. The Once-ler explains that he is using the Truffula tree's tufts to make something called a \"Thneed... a fine something that all people need.\" The multi-purpose item soon attracts the attention of many customers, and the Once-ler continues to cut down more Truffula trees. When it seems that the business is growing too big for just one Once-ler, he calls his relatives to help him with his thriving business.\n\nAs the Lorax protests against the Once-ler's actions, he is eventually standing under a Truffula tree that was planted in the new developments that appeared over time, when a bulldozer picks up the Truffula tree and the Lorax and the Lorax is thrown into a truck with the Truffula tree and hauled to a factory, where the Lorax is put in a box.\n\nThen everybody reminisces about how Thneeds, Inc. started and how famous the Once-ler has become and popular the company has gotten, showing \"Once-ler Cones\", \"Once-ler Burgers\", a \"Once-lermobile\" and a blimp advertising Thneeds, then a stone with the word \"Thneed\" carved in it. Shortly after Thneeds, Inc. has produced its millionth product, the Lorax gets out of the box and, despite his protests, falls back into the box to be shipped off with more finished Thneeds.\n\nSoon the once beautiful area becomes choked with pollution and as the Once-ler is trying to find out how his company is doing in the Scandinavian market (by this point Thneeds, Inc. has expanded outside the US), the Lorax comes into the Once-Ler's office to protest that the Brown Bar-ba-loots, which fed on Truffula fruits, are nearing starvation. The Lorax starts sending the fauna off to more hospitable habitats. After this, the Once-ler's conscience tells him he is doing a lot of bad things, to which the Once-ler responds, \"But if I didn't do them, then someone else would.\" When his conscience agrees, the Once-ler says progress has to get bigger. As the Once-ler is thinking about how successful Thneeds are selling all over the country, the Lorax protests that the \"smogulous smoke\" fills the Swanee Swans' throats with smog, preventing them from singing. Finally, the pond that was home to the Humming Fish is filled with toxic waste called \"Gluppity-Glupp\" and \"Schloppity-Schlopp\" that clogs their gills. Confronted by the Lorax, the Once-ler appears to be ready to listen. That is, until his secretary announces that the company's stock report has come in, and 'Thneeds, Inc' has exceeded its profit even higher due to rival markets closing down. The Once-ler then scoffs at the Lorax, claiming that he will keep on making Thneeds, regardless of the consequences. As he finishes his taunt, the sound of an ax is heard, and the two are witnesses to the leveling of the last Truffula tree. With no more trees, the factory shuts down, and the Once-ler's relatives pack up and leave. The Lorax sadly glances at the Once-ler, before he lifts himself by the seat of his pants, and disappears through a hole in the smog. On the spot where the Lorax last stood, sits a small pile of rocks, with a word carved into one: \"Unless.\"\n\nThe tale then switches back to the Once-ler talking to the boy, who is given the last Truffula seed by the Once-ler, encouraging the boy to help revitalize the long-dead trees by growing a brand new forest, with the possibility that the Lorax and all of his friends may then come back. The camera shows us a larger hole in the smog, which is the background image to the end credits.\n\n\n\n\"The Lorax\" was released on VHS in 1994 as part of a CBS Video four-tape package called \"Dr. Seuss Sing-Along Classics\".\n\nTo tie-in with the 40th anniversary of the special and the release of film \"The Lorax\", Warner Home Video released the special on a deluxe edition DVD and Blu-ray on February 14, 2012.\n\n\"The Lorax\" received the Critics Award from the International Animated Cartoon Festival (Zagreb, 1972) and the Silver Media from the International Film and Television Festival (New York, 1972).\n"}
{"id": "24270385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24270385", "title": "Tripartite Struggle", "text": "Tripartite Struggle\n\nThe Tripartite Struggle for control of northern India took place in the ninth century. The struggle was between the Pratihara Empire, the Pala Empire and the Rashtrakuta Empire.\n\nTowards the end of the successor of Nagabhata II of the Gurjara-Pratihara dynasty, successfully attacked Kanauj and established control there. This was short-lived as he was soon after defeated by the Rastrakuta ruler, Govinda III. However, the Rastrakutas also formed a matrimonial relationship with the Gangas and defeated the kingdom of Vengi. By the end of the 9th Century, the power of the Rastrakutas started to decline along with the Palas. This was seen as an ideal opportunity by the feudal king Taila II who defeated the Rastrakuta ruler and declared his kingdom there. This came to be known the Later Chalukya dynasty. Their kingdom included the states of Karnataka, Konkan, and the northern Godavari. By the end of the tripartite struggle, the Pratiharas emerged victorious and established themselves as the rulers of central India.\n\nNot much is known about the kingdom of the Kannauj after Emperor Harsha's death in 647 AD resulting in great confusion due to the absence of his heirs. Kannauj came for a short period under the hands of Arunasva who attacked Wang Hstian-tse who came to the court of king Harsha as ambassador of the Chinese emperor Tai-tsung. However, Wang Hstian-tse succeeded in capturing Arunasva who was taken back to China to spend his days in attendance on the Tang Emperor.\n\nAbout AD 730, Yashovarman established a kingdom at Kannauj. His invasion of Gauda (Bengal) formed the subject of the Prakrit poem \"Gaudavaho\" (Slaying of the king of Gauda), composed by his courtier Vakapatiraja in the 8th century.\n\nAfter Yashovarman, three kings — Vijrayudha, Indrayudha, and Chakrayudha — ruled over Kannauj between the close of the 8th century until the 820s. Talking advantage of the weakness of these Ayudha rulers and attracted by the immense strategic and economic potentialities of the kingdom of Kannauj, the Gurjara-Pratiharas of Bhinmal (Rajasthan), the Palas of Bengal and Bihar and the Rashtrakutas of the Manyakheta (Karnataka) fought against each other. This tripartite struggle for Kannauj lingered for almost two centuries and ultimately ended in favour of the Gurjara-Pratihara ruler Nagabhata II who made the city the capital of the Gurjara-Pratihara state, which ruled for nearly three centuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "24647008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24647008", "title": "Twilight: Los Angeles, 1992", "text": "Twilight: Los Angeles, 1992\n\nTwilight: Los Angeles, 1992 is a one-woman play written and originally performed by American actress, playwright and professor Anna Deavere Smith about the 1992 Los Angeles riots.\n\nThe original Broadway production opened at the Cort Theatre in New York City on April 17, 1994 and ran for 72 performances. The play is composed of a series of monologues by real people connected directly and indirectly to the riots; the text of the monologues is taken verbatim from interviews that Smith had conducted with them. The subjects/characters of the play include public officials like LAPD chief Daryl Gates and congresswoman Maxine Waters; a nameless juror on the Rodney King police trial, whose verdict directly led to the riots; various victims and instigators of violence, including, most famously, truck driver Reginald Denny, and residents of Los Angeles with their own view of the events, including singer Jessye Norman and actor Charlton Heston.\n\n\"Twilight\" is a direct successor to Smith's previous play, \"Fires in the Mirror\" (1992), which, like \"Twilight\", was a one-woman play with monologues based on interview transcripts, covering another recent riot largely based on African American grievances, the Crown Heights riot of 1991. Both plays are considered trailblazers in a genre that has become known as verbatim theatre.\n\n\"Twilight\" was nominated for the 1994 Tony Award for Best Play, losing to \"\"; and Smith was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Actress in a Play, losing to Diana Rigg in \"Medea\".\n\nSmith recreated her role in a in 2000 directed by Marc Levin.\n\n"}
{"id": "8032220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8032220", "title": "Wee Shu Min elitism controversy", "text": "Wee Shu Min elitism controversy\n\nThe Wee Shu Min elitism controversy occurred in October 2006 in Singapore. Wee Shu Min, daughter of parliament member Wee Siew Kim and a then eighteen-year-old student on Raffles Junior College's Humanities scholarship programme, found herself in controversy after posting on her blog what were viewed by some Singaporeans to be elitist, naïve, and insensitive statements against heartlanders.\n\nDismissing the views of Derek Wee who voiced concerns on job security and age discrimination on his blog, she shot back with a take-no-prisoners diatribe, calling Derek a \"stupid crackpot\", belonging to \"the sadder class\" and overreliant on the government. Her post also called for Derek to \"\"get out of my elite uncaring face\".\nHer response triggered an avalanche of criticism, as it came on the heels of the sensational suicide of an individual (said to be facing financial difficulties) at Chinese Garden MRT Station. As a result, her name topped Technorati's search terms for a week. She has since appeared to have apologised on another blog and shut down her own.\n\nA few months after the controversy, Wee Shu Min flew to US to study her BA in University of Pennysylvania. In 2011, she graduated from University of Pennsylvania. She proceeded to study a MBA in Stanford University Graduate School of Business and graduated in 2016. Taking a different direction from her initial \"Get out of my uncaring elite face\", she did a video documenting her own fear of imperfection in Stanford with the SNATCHED show. However, it was not well received as many could not believe what she had shared on the video. As of 2017, she is currently working in Lyft as a Senior Manager in Driver Loyalty and Experience. \n\nIn response to the scandal, Wee Siew Kim stated that he supported Shu Min's point in principle and that \"people cannot take the brutal truth,\" but he and Shu Min's college principal also expressed disappointment and counselled her to be more sensitive towards others. Wee also claimed that his daughter's privacy had been violated. Critics pointed out however, that he appeared to have endorsed her elitist remarks and failed to address values such as empathy and humility, and that he was apologising for the tone, but not the content of his daughter's response.\n\nTwo days after Wee Siew Kim first spoke out in \"The Straits Times\", he made a public apology to those who were offended by statements made in his interview, in particular Derek Wee. Commentators used the controversy as evidence that Singapore was suffering from increasing signs that political elitism, \"smarter-than-thou\" snobbery and class consciousness anxiety were creeping into its meritocracy model, a widening social stratification that will cause long-term implications for Singaporean society, and problems in the education system that need to be addressed. The controversy was subsequently raised and hotly debated again in the opening session of the Parliament by fellow MP Sin Boon Ann, who pointed out that elitism was now an open secret in several aspects of Singapore society, including education, the military and the civil service, commenting that it is necessary \"(to) \"break down the institution of snobbery within our society.\"\"\n"}
{"id": "32307491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32307491", "title": "Wild Goose Festival", "text": "Wild Goose Festival\n\nThe Wild Goose Festival is an art, music, and story-driven transformational experience grounded in faith-inspired social justice. The nationwide annual July event is attended by 2,000 to 3,000 in Hot Springs, NC. There are also some regional events. It encourages co-creation of music, story, theater, and spectacle, and engagement in a wide variety of robust, respectful conversations with participants and with thought leaders and artists from other communities. Wild Goose is welcoming and hospitable to people of all faiths – or no faith – who join in seeking the common good. It fully affirms and celebrates people of every age, ethnicity, gender, gender expression, sexual identity, education, bodily condition, religious affiliation, and economic background, particularly those who are most often marginalized.\n\nWild Goose is rooted in Progressive Christianity, moving beyond belief and centered in justice and compassion, in solidarity with the marginalized and the oppressed. The festival is popular among many involved with the emerging church movement.\n\nThe Wild Goose Community is committed to Co-Creation, Storytelling, Radical Hospitality. Real Relationship, Non-Violence, and Continual Evolution.\n\nThe Wild Goose Festival was inspired in by the popular Greenbelt festival in the United Kingdom. The board of directors for the Wild Goose Festival was formed in 2009, and Gareth Higgins was hired as festival director in March 2010. Rosa Lee Hardin succeeded Gareth in 2013, and in 2016 Rosa Lee was succeeded by Jeff Clark.\n\nThe first festival was held June 23–26, 2011, at Shakori Hills farm (home of the Shakori Hills Grassroots Festival) in Silk Hope, North Carolina. It was attended by an estimated 1,500 people. Music at the 2011 festival included Michelle Shocked, David Wilcox, Over The Rhine, Jennifer Knapp, Derek Webb, David Bazan, David Lamotte, Tom Prasada-Rao, Ashley Cleveland, Agents of Future, Sarah Masen, Psalters, Denison Witmer, and The Redding Brothers.\n\nSpeakers at the 2011 festival included Jim Wallis, Brian McLaren, T-Bone Burnett, Father Richard Rohr, Phyllis Tickle, Vincent Harding, John Dear, Shane Claiborne, Lynne Hybels, Tony Campolo, Diana Butler Bass, Paul Knitter, Soong-Chan Rah, Frank Schaeffer, Jay Bakker, Peter Rollins, Doug Pagitt, Richard Twiss, Carl McColman, Tony Jones, Margot Starbuck, Ian Cron, David Dark, Jonathan Wilson-Hartgrove, Nadia Bolz-Weber, Mark Scandrette, Ed Dobson, Paul Fromberg, Melvin Bray, Cynthia La Grou, Eliacin Rosario-Cruz, Anthony Smith, Samir Selmanovic, Chad Holtz, Becky Knight, Kester Brewin, and Pamela Wilhelms.\n\nIn 2012, festivals were held in Shakori Hills, North Carolina and in Portland, Oregon. The festival moved to Hot Springs, North Carolina in 2013 and has continued there to the present day.\n\n"}
{"id": "28353999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28353999", "title": "William Owen Smith", "text": "William Owen Smith\n\nWilliam Owen Smith (August 4, 1848 – April 13, 1929) was a lawyer from a family of American missionaries who participated in the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii. He served as attorney general for the entire duration of the provisional Government of Hawaii and the Republic of Hawaii.\n\nSmith was born August 4, 1848 in Kōloa on the island of Kauaʻi.\nHis mother was Millicent Knapp (1816–1891). His parents were physician James William Smith (1810–1887) and teacher Melicent Knapp Smith (1816-1891). His parents were in the tenth set of missionaries to Hawaii from the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions who arrived in 1842. \nHis sister Charlotte Elizabeth \"Lottie\" Smith (1845–1896) married Alfred Stedman Hartwell (1836–1912), who was a former general in the American Civil War, on January 10, 1872.\nHis brother Jared Knapp Smith (1849–1897) became a physician and carried on his father's medical practice.\nHis sister Melicent Lena Smith (1854–1943) married William Waterhouse (1852–1942). Waterhouse served as mayor of Pasadena, California 1904–1906.\n\nHe attended Daniel Dole's missionary school at Kōloa, Punahou School from 1863 to 1866, and then Massachusetts Agricultural College (now the University of Massachusetts Amherst). On his return he worked as a clerk in his brother-in-law Hartwell's law office.\nHe served as sheriff on Kauaʻi in 1870 and then Maui in 1872 through 1874. While working at the Lāhainā Courthouse, on April 24, 1873 he planted a banyan tree (\"Ficus benghalensis\") to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the arrival of Christian missionaries on the island.\n\nOn March 23, 1876, he married Mary Abbey Hobron. They had five children: Clarence Hobron Smith, Ethel Frances Smith born November 17, 1879, Pauline Melicent Smith, Anna Katherine Smith, and Lorrin Knapp Smith.\nHe founded the law firm of Smith, Thurston & Kinney with Lorrin A. Thurston and William Ansel Kinney in Honolulu in 1887.\n\nHe acted as deputy attorney general, and was elected as a representative from Maui to the legislature of the Hawaiian Kingdom from 1878 to 1884. He helped draft the 1887 Constitution of the Kingdom of Hawaii, which King Kalākaua was forced to sign, giving it the name \"Bayonet Constitution\". His law partner Thurston then became minister in the new cabinet.\nIn the 1887 and 1888 sessions he was elected to the upper House of Nobles. \nIn 1892 he was elected as representative from Kauaʻi.\n\nHe was a member of the Committee of Safety that organized the overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii on January 14, 1893. On January 17, he was appointed to the executive council (the new cabinet) of the Provisional Government of Hawaii under president Sanford B. Dole, the son of his former teacher. Dole's stepmother, Charlotte Close Knapp (1813–1874), was widow of Smith's uncle Horton Owen Knapp (1813–1845), who had been a missionary teacher himself on Kauaʻi.\nSmith served as Attorney General of Hawaii from the creation of provisional government through the Republic of Hawaii.\nOn December 18, 1895 he became a member of the board of health, and later its president. He had no formal training except for having a father and brother as practicing physicians.\n\nHis brother Jared Knapp Smith was shot dead on September 24, 1897. It was suspected to be in retaliation for ordering patients suspected of leprosy to have tests that might send them to exile in Kalaupapa. Similar tensions had ignited the Leper War on Kaua'i four years earlier. His former law partner Kinney sailed to Kauai island and was appointed special prosecutor. A native Hawaiian suspect Kapea Kaahea was arrested, tried on November 13, 1897, and found guilty of murder in the first degree.\n\nInstead of waiting for next scheduled term of the circuit court, a special session had been called. Honolulu English-language newspapers said \"there seems no doubt of the guilt of the chief prisoner\" even before the trial. The objections brought to the Supreme Court of Hawaii were quickly rejected on February 3, 1898. Kapea was hanged on April 11, 1898. The rushed nature of the prosecution was thought to be an attempt to show the United States that the government was in firm control. Only a few months later in July 1898, the Newlands Resolution would annex the islands. Of the four executions for capital punishment between 1889 and 1903 in Hawaii, all four were of non-whites within a four-month period.\n\nIn August 1898 Smith offered to resign, but although now annexed, the old republic government continued to operate.\nOn March 20, 1899, Smith was replaced as attorney general by Henry Ernest Cooper and returned to private practice. Smith was elected to one term of the Territory of Hawaii senate from 1907 to 1909.\n\nSmith was a trustee of the Kamehameha Schools, founded from the estate of Bernice Pauahi Bishop, from 1884 to 1886 and from 1897 to 1929. He was a trustee of the Lunalilo Estate, the Alexander Young Estate and the Honolulu children's hospital. He was on the board of the Guardian Trust Company, Bishop Trust Company, Inter-Island Steam Navigation company and Alexander & Baldwin.\nDespite his role in the overthrow, deposed Queen Liliuokalani selected him to be a founding trustee of her own estate when she made her will in December 1909. \nHer personal assets were left in a trust to benefit orphans.\n\nOn November 30, 1915, Prince Jonah Kūhiō Kalanianaole challenged the will in court, saying she was \"of weakened mind\" under the influence of the trustees. This was known as case 23 Haw. 457 in the Supreme Court of Hawaii. The feisty queen demanded a public hearing of her sanity in February 1916. The firm, now Smith, Warren & Sutton, successfully defended Liliuokalani.\nHis law partners at the time were Louis J. Warren and Edwin White Sutton.\nLiliuokalani's charity still operates today.\n\nHis daughter Ethel Frances Smith (1879–1967) married Henry Alexander Baldwin, known as \"Harry\" Baldwin who briefly became the congressional delegate for Hawaii.\nDaughter Anna Katherine Smith (1888–1960) married Harry's brother Samuel Alexander Baldwin (1885–1950) and lived on Maui.\nThe father of his two sons-in-law was Henry Perrine Baldwin, founder of Alexander & Baldwin.\nClarence Hobron Smith married Margherita Adele Browning May 7, 1908 in New York. They then moved to Italy.\nYoungest son Lorrin Knapp Smith was born October 10, 1890, married Sila Pratt (1890–1952), became a ranch manager on Maui, and died October 27, 1930.\nThe Maui branches of the family are buried in the cemetery at Makawao Union Church.\nHis niece Madeline Perry Hartwell married Albert Francis Judd, Jr., son of Chief Justice of the Hawaii Supreme Court Albert Francis Judd on July 21, 1899.\nHis ties to the oligarchy known as the \"Big Five\" that dominated the island economy led the opposition press to call him \"King Bill the First\". They described him using a mix of stereotypes:He was narrow-minded as a New Englander, domineering as a Russian Czar, yet suave as a Frenchman. He was obstinate as a Scotchman, generous as a Southerner, and at times vicious as an Indian. But he was withal the hardest working official we have ever heard of—next to the Devil.\n\nIn 1926 he was appointed to help organize the public archives of Hawaii.\nHe donated many of his papers to the collection, including drafts of the 1887 constitution.\n\nSmith died April 13, 1929 in his home in the Nuuanu Valley near Honolulu from pneumonia.\nAfter a number of partner changes, his law firm survives as Case Lombardi & Pettit. \nPartner Daniel H. Case is the father of Steve Case and uncle of Congressman Ed Case.\nCase was lawyer for Grove Farm, when it was bought by his son. \nIt includes the area where Smith grew up. Other notable members of the firm through the years included Cyrus Nils Tavares, Alan Cooke Kay, and W. F.L. Stanley.\n"}
