{"id": "40251587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40251587", "title": "Agência Estado", "text": "Agência Estado\n\nAgência Estado is a Private News Agency in Brazil. It was started by Brazilian media group Grupo Estado.\n\n"}
{"id": "28788765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28788765", "title": "Algerian Red Crescent Society", "text": "Algerian Red Crescent Society\n\nThe Algerian Red Crescent Society is an Algerian humanitarian volunteer organization founded in 1957. It has only been recognized by the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement since 1963.\n\nThe Algerian Red Crescent society was born out of the preliminary humanitarian missions by the Internal Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) during the Algerian War of 1954-1962. Although the colonial French government did provide Algerian students with education in regards to human rights, they did not have explicit access to these rights in certain politically-motivated situations.\n\nThe need for the International Committee of the Red Cross was represented in their first mission on February 1, 1955, when the organization send aid to detainees and their families, who were experiencing human rights violations and mistreatment during their incarceration. During this time, joined by a medical professional, the ICRC conducted meetings with prison inmates and staff in regards to the condition of sanitary facilities, dorms and kitchens, as well as investigations into medical treatment and healthcare. The success of this mission brought relief, supplies, recommendations and set a precedent for the ICRC to return again from May 12-June 28, 1956 to visit 61 internment camps, where they found evidence of torture and misconduct. These findings were important to the January 10th, 1957 establishment of the Algerian Red Crescent, as a more consistent presence was needed in Algiers to monitor human rights in detention centres. The organization was actually first established in two locations, Tangier, Morocco and Tunis, Tunisia, where the leadership of the National Liberation Front (NLF) were living in exile. Mamia Chentouf was one of the founders in Tunis. Following its establishment, the Algerian Red Crescent aided the ICRC in providing aid to the forty thousand refugees in neighbouring Morocco, as a result of their newly granted independence on March 2, 1956.\n\nSince the formation of the Algerian Red Crescent in 1957, the organization has remained active in providing humanitarian assistance throughout Algeria. As Pierre Gaillard remarked from his personal experience with the Algerian Red Crescent when an Israeli plane from the airline El Al was hijacked to Algiers in 1962, the Algerian Red Crescent was active in receiving the ICRC delegate as well as directing those responsible for prosecution, effectively preserving the safety of Algerians.\n\nMore recently, on October 18, 2008, the Algerian Red Crescent responded to a catastrophic mudslide in the region of Ghardaïa that resulted in a dozen casualties, as well as the displacement of over one thousand Algerians. Over four-hundred and fifty Algerian Red Crescent members contributed to the relief effort by evacuating civilians, providing first aid and distributing emergency relief including temporary housing, water purification tablets, sanitary supplies, blankets, kitchen utensils, basic health care and psychological support programs.\n\nOn June 3, 2016, the organization provided five hundred parcels of nutritional aid to the communities of Tizi Mahdi, Bouaichoune, Bouchrahil, and Guelb El Kebir in the Wilaya de Médea region after the already socially-stratified sub-village settlements (Hameaux) were hit by an earthquake.\n"}
{"id": "4087576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4087576", "title": "Arab culture", "text": "Arab culture\n\nArab culture is the culture of the Arabs, from the Atlantic Ocean in the west to the Arabian Sea in the east, and from the Mediterranean Sea. Language, literature, gastronomy, art, architecture, music, spirituality, philosophy, mysticism (etc.) are all part of the cultural heritage of the Arabs.\n\nThe Arab world is sometimes divided into separate regions including Al-Maghrib Al-Arabi (consisting of Libya, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, and Mauritania), Fertile Crescent (consisting of Iraq, Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, Palestine and Jordan) and the Arabian Peninsula (consisting of south Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Al Ahwaz Al Arabiya, Oman and the UAE) and the Arabian Peninsula's Al-Janoub Al-Arabi (consisting of Yemen and Oman).\n\nArabic literature is the writing produced, both prose and poetry, by speakers of the Arabic language. It does not include works written using the Arabic alphabet but not in the Arabic language such as Persian and Urdu literature. The Arabic word used for literature is \"adab\" which is derived from a word meaning \"to invite someone for a meal\" and implies politeness, culture and enrichment. Arabic literature emerged in the 6th century, with only fragments of the written language appearing before then. The Qur'an, from the 7th century, had the greatest and longest-lasting effect on Arabic culture and literature. Al-Khansa, a female contemporary of Muhammad, was an acclaimed Arab poet.\n\nThe Mu'allaqat (Arabic: المعلقات, ) is the name given to a series of seven Arabic poems or qasida that originated before the time of Islam. Each poem in the set has a different author, and is considered to be their best work. Mu'allaqat means \"The Suspended Odes\" or \"The Hanging Poems,\" and comes from the poems being hung on the wall in the Kaaba at Mecca.\n\nThe seven authors, who span a period of around 100 years, are Imru' al-Qais, Tarafa, Zuhayr, Labīd, 'Antara Ibn Shaddad, 'Amr ibn Kulthum, and Harith ibn Hilliza. All of the Mu’allaqats contain stories from the authors’ lives and tribe politics. This is because poetry was used in pre-Islamic time to advertise the strength of a tribe’s king, wealth and people.\n\nThe \"One Thousand and One Nights\" ( \"ʾAlf layla wa-layla\"), is a medieval folk tale collection which tells the story of Scheherazade, a Sassanid queen who must relate a series of stories to her malevolent husband, King Shahryar (Šahryār), to delay her execution. The stories are told over a period of one thousand and one nights, and every night she ends the story with a suspenseful situation, forcing the King to keep her alive for another day. The individual stories were created over several centuries, by many people from a number of different lands.\n\nDuring the reign of the Abbasid Caliph Harun al-Rashid in the 8th century, Baghdad had become an important cosmopolitan city. Merchants from Persia, China, India, Africa, and Europe were all found in Baghdad. During this time, many of the stories that were originally folk stories are thought to have been collected orally over many years and later compiled into a single book. The compiler and ninth-century translator into Arabic is reputedly the storyteller Abu Abd-Allah Muhammad el-Gahshigar. The frame story of Shahrzad seems to have been added in the 14th century.\n\nArabic music is the music of Arab people, especially those centered around the Arabian Peninsula. The world of Arab music has long been dominated by Cairo, a cultural center, though musical innovation and regional styles abound from Tunisia to Saudi Arabia. Beirut has, in recent years, also become a major center of Arabic music. Classical Arab music is extremely popular across the population, especially a small number of superstars known throughout the Arab world. Regional styles of popular music include Iraqian el Maqaam, Algerian \"raï\", Kuwaiti \"sawt\" and Egyptian \"el gil\".\n\n\"The common style that developed is usually called 'Islamic' or 'Arab', though in fact it transcends religious, ethnic, geographical, and linguistic boundaries\" and it is suggested that it be called the Near East (from Morocco to India) style (van der Merwe, Peter 1989, p. 9).\n\nHabib Hassan Touma (1996, p.xix-xx) lists \"five components\" which \"characterize the music of the Arabs:\n\nMuch Arab music is characterized by an emphasis on melody and rhythm rather than harmony. Thus much Arabic music is homophonic in nature. Some genres of Arab music are polyphonic—as the instrument Kanoun is based upon the idea of playing two-note chords—but quintessentially, Arabic music is melodic.\n\nIt would be incorrect though to call it modal, for the Arabic system is more complex than that of the Greek modes. The basis of the Arabic music is the maqam (pl. maqamat), which looks like the mode, but is not quite the same. The maqam has a \"tonal\" note on which the piece must end (unless modulation occurs).\n\nThe maqam consists of at least two jins, or scale segments. \"Jins\" in Arabic comes from the ancient Greek word \"genus,\" meaning type. In practice, a jins (pl. ajnas) is either a trichord, a tetrachord, or a pentachord. The trichord is three notes, the tetrachord four, and the pentachord five. The maqam usually covers only one octave (two jins), but sometimes it covers more than one octave. Like the melodic minor scale and Indian ragas, some maqamat have different ajnas, and thus notes, while descending or ascending. Because of the continuous innovation of jins and because most music scholars don't agree on the existing number anyway, it's hard to give an accurate number of the jins. Nonetheless, in practice most musicians would agree on the 8 most frequently used ajnas: Rast, Bayat, Sikah, Hijaz, Saba, Kurd, Nahawand, and Ajam — and a few of the most commonly used variants of those: Nakriz, Athar Kurd, Sikah Beladi, Saba Zamzama. Mukhalif is a rare jins used exclusively in Iraq, and it does not occur in combination with other ajnas.\n\nThe main difference between the western chromatic scale and the Arabic scales is the existence of many in-between notes, which are sometimes referred to as quarter tones for the sake of practicality. However, while in some treatments of theory the quarter tone scale or all twenty four tones should exist, according to Yūsuf Shawqī (1969) in practice there are many fewer tones (Touma 1996, p. 170).\n\nIn fact, the situation is much more complicated than that. In 1932, at International Convention on Arabic music held in Cairo, Egypt (attended by such Western luminaries as Béla Bartók and Henry George Farmer), experiments were done which determined conclusively that the notes in actual use differ substantially from an even-tempered 24-tone scale, and furthermore that the intonation of many of those notes differ slightly from region to region (Egypt, Turkey, Syria, Iraq). The commission's recommendation is as follows: \"The tempered scale and the natural scale should be rejected. In Egypt, the Egyptian scale is to be kept with the values, which were measured with all possible precision. The Turkish, Syrian, and Iraqi scales should remain what they are...\" (translated in Maalouf 2002, p. 220). Both in modern practice, and based on the evidence from recorded music over the course of the last century, there are several differently tuned \"E\"s in between the E-flat and E-natural of the Western Chromatic scale, depending on the maqam or jins in use, and depending on the region.\n\nMusicians and teachers refer to these in-between notes as \"quarter-tones\" (\"half-flat\" or \"half-sharp\") for ease of nomenclature, but perform and teach the exact values of intonation in each jins or maqam by ear. It should also be added, in reference to Touma's comment above, that these \"quarter-tones\" are not used everywhere in the maqamat: in practice, Arabic music does not modulate to 12 different tonic areas like the Well-Tempered Klavier, and so the most commonly used \"quarter tones\" are on E (between E-flat and E-natural), A, B, D, F (between F-natural and F-sharp) and C.\n\nThe prototypical Arab ensemble in Egypt and Syria is known as the takht, which includes, (or included at different time periods) instruments such as the 'oud, qanún, rabab, nay, violin (which was introduced in the 1840s or 50s), riq and dumbek. In Iraq, the traditional ensemble, known as the chalghi, includes only two melodic instruments—the jowza (similar to the rabab but with four strings) and santur—with riq and dumbek.\n\n\"Arab folk dances\" also referred to as \"Oriental dance\", \"Middle-Eastern dance and\" \"Eastern dance\", refers to the traditional folk dances of the Arabs in Arab world (Middle East and North Africa). The term \"Arabic dance\" is often associated with the belly dance. However, there are many styles of traditional Arab dance, and many of them have a long history. These may be folk dances, or dances that were once performed as rituals or as entertainment spectacle, and some may have been performed in the imperial court. Coalescence of oral storytelling, poetry recital, and performative music and dance as long-standing traditions in Arab history. Among the best-known of the Arab traditional dances are the Belly dance and the Dabke.\n\n\"Belly dance\" also referred to as \"Arabic dance\" ( is an Arab expressive dance, which emphasizes complex movements of the torso. Many boys and girls in countries where belly dancing is popular will learn how to do it when they are young. The dance involves movement of many different parts of the body; usually in a circular way.\n\nPrior to the Islamic Era, poetry was regarded as the main means of communication on the Arabian Peninsula. It related the achievements of tribes and defeats of enemies and also served as a tool for propaganda. After the arrival of Islam other forms of communication replaced poetry as the primary form of communication. Imams (preachers) played a role in disseminating information and relating news from the authorities to the people. The suq or marketplace gossip and interpersonal relationships played an important role in the spreading of news, and this form of communication among Arabs continues today. Before the introduction of the printing press Muslims obtained most of their news from the imams at the mosque, friends or in the marketplace. Colonial powers and Christian Missionaries in Lebanon were responsible for the introduction of the printing press. It was not until the 19th century that the first newspapers began to appear, mainly in Egypt and Lebanon, which had the most newspapers per capita.\n\nDuring French rule in Egypt in the time of Napoleon Bonaparte the first newspaper was published, in French. There is debate over when the first Arabic language newspaper was published; according to Arab scholar Abu Bakr, it was \"Al Tanbeeh\" (1800), published in Egypt, or it was \"Junral Al Iraq\" (1816), published in Iraq, according to other researchers. In the mid-19th century the Turkish Empire dominated the first newspapers. In the Northern African countries of Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria the French colonial power built a press link between mainland countries.\n\nThe first newspapers were limited to official content and included accounts of relations with other countries and civil trials. In the following decades Arab media blossomed due to journalists mainly from Syria and Lebanon, who were intellectuals and published their newspapers without the intention of making a profit. Because of the restrictions by most governments, these intellectuals were forced to flee their respective countries but had gained a following and because of their popularity in this field of work other intellectuals began to take interest in the field.\nThe first émigré Arab newspaper, \"Mar’at al Ahwal\", was published in Turkey in 1855 by Rizqallah Hassoun Al Halabi. It was criticized by the Ottoman Empire and shut down after only one year. Intellectuals in the Arab world soon realized the power of the press. Some countries' newspapers were government-run and had political agendas in mind. Independent newspapers began to spring up which expressed opinions and were a place for the public to out their views on the state. Illiteracy rates in the Arab world played a role in the formation of media, and due to the low reader rates newspapers were forced to get political parties to subsidize their publications, giving them input to editorial policy.\n\nFreedoms that have branched through the introduction of the Internet in Middle East are creating a stir politically, culturally, and socially. There is an increasing divide between the generations. The Arab world is in conflict internally. The internet has brought economic prosperity and development, but bloggers have been incarcerated all around in the Middle East for their opinions and views on their regimes, the same consequence which was once given to those who publicly expressed themselves without anonymity. But the power of the internet has provided also a public shield for these bloggers since they have the ability to engage public sympathy on such a large scale. This is creating a dilemma that shakes the foundation of Arab culture, government, religious interpretation, economic prosperity, and personal integrity.\n\nEach country or region in the Arab world has varying colloquial languages which are used for everyday speech, yet its presence in the media world is discouraged. Prior to the establishment of Modern Standard Arabic (MSA), during the 19th century, the language of the media was stylized and resembled literary language of the time, proving to be ineffective in relaying information. Currently MSA is used by Arab media, including newspapers, books and some television stations, in addition to all formal writing. Vernaculars are however present in certain forms of media including satires, dramas, music videos and other local programs.\n\nJournalism ethics is a system of values that determines what constitutes \"good\" and \"bad\" journalism. A system of media values consists of and is constructed by journalists' and other actors' decisions about issues like what is \"newsworthy,\" how to frame the news, and whether to observe topical \"red lines.\" Such a system of values varies over space and time, and is embedded within the existing social, political, and economic structures in a society. William Rugh states, \"There is an intimate, organic relationship between media institutions and society in the way that those institutions are organized and controlled. Neither the institution nor the society in which it functions can be understood properly without reference to the other. This is certainly true in the Arab world.\" Media values in the Arab world therefore vary between and within countries. In the words of Lawrence Pintak and Jeremy Ginges, “The Arab media are not a monolith.”\n\nJournalists in the Arab world hold many of the same values with their news generation as do journalists in the Western world. Journalists in the Arab world often aspire to Western norms of objectivity, impartiality, and balance. Kuldip Roy Rampal's study of journalist training programs in North Africa leads him to the conclusion that, \"the most compelling dilemma faced by professional journalists, increasingly graduates of journalism degree programs, in the four Maghreb states is how to reconcile their preference for press freedom and objectivity with constraints imposed by political and legal factors that point to a pro-government journalism.\" Iyotika Ramaprasad and Naila Nabil Hamdy state, “A new trend toward objectivity and impartiality as a value in Arab journalism seems to be emerging, and the values of Arab and Western journalism in this field have started to converge.” Further, many journalists in the Arab world express their desires for the media to become a fourth estate akin to the media in the West. In a survey of 601 journalists in the Arab world, 40% of them viewed investigation of the government as part of their job.\n\nImportant differences between journalists in the Arab world and their Western counterparts are also apparent. Some journalists in the Arab world see no conflict between objectivity and support for political causes. Ramprasad and Hamdy’s sample of 112 Egyptian journalists gave the highest importance to supporting Arabism and Arab values, which included injunctions such as “defend Islamic societies, traditions and values” and “support the cause of the Palestinians.” Sustaining democracy through “examining government policies and decisions critically,” ranked a close second. This view is further endorsed in Kirat’s survey where 65 percent of Algerian journalists agreed that the task for the press is to \"help achieve the goals and objectives of development plans.\nSuch an approach to media fits within the larger scope of development communication and journalism. The extent to which professional and political aims conflict is a subject of study for scholars of the Arab world's media.\n\nOther journalists reject the notion of media ethics altogether because they see it as a mechanism of control. Kai Hafez states, “Many governments in the Arab world have tried to hijack the issue of media ethics and have used it as yet another controlling device, with the result that many Arab journalists, while they love to speak about the challenges of their profession, hate performing under the label of media ethics.”\n\nHistorically, news in the Arab world was used to inform, guide, and publicize the actions of political practitioners rather than being just a consumer product. The power of news as political tool was discovered in the early 19th century, with the purchase of shares from Le Temps a French newspaper by Ismail the grandson of Muhammad Ali. Doing so allowed Ismail to publicize his policies. Arab Media coming to modernity flourished and with it its responsibilities to the political figures that have governed its role. Ami Ayalon argues in his history of the press in the Arab Middle East that, “Private journalism began as an enterprise with very modest objectives, seeking not to defy authority but rather to serve it, to collaborate and coexist cordially with it. The demand for freedom of expression, as well as for individual political freedom, a true challenge to the existing order, came only later, and hesitantly at that, and was met by a public response that can best be described as faint.\" \nMedia researchers stress that the moral and social responsibility of newspeople dictates that they should not agitate public opinion, but rather should keep the status quo. It is also important to preserve national unity by not stirring up ethnic or religious conflict.\nThe values of media in the Arab world have started to change with the emergence of “new media.\" Examples of new media include news websites, blogs, and satellite television stations like Al Arabiya. The founding of the Qatari Al Jazeera network in 1996 especially affected media values. Some scholars believe that the network has blurred the line between private- and state- run news. Mohamed Zayani and Sofiane Sabraoui state, “Al Jazeera is owned by the government, but has an independent editorial policy; it is publicly funded, but independent minded.” The Al Jazeera media network espouses a clear mission and strategy, and was one of the first news organizations in the Arab world to release a code of ethics. Despite its government ties, it seeks to “give no priority to commercial or political over professional consideration” and to “cooperate with Arab and international journalistic unions and associations to defend freedom of the press.” With a motto of “the view and the other view,” it purports to “present the diverse points of view and opinions without bias and partiality.” It has sought to fuse these ostensibly Western media norms with a wider “Arab orientation,” evocative of the social responsibility discussed by scholars such as Noha Mellor above.\n\nSome more recent assessments of Al Jazeera have criticized it for a lack of credibility in the wake of the Arab Spring. Criticism has come from within the Arab Middle East, including from state governments. Independent commentators have criticized its neutrality vis-a-vis the Syrian Civil War.\n\nMedia values are not the only variable that affects news output in Arab society. Hafez states, “The interaction of political, economic, and social environments with individual and collective professional ethics is the driving force behind journalism.” In most Arab countries, newspapers cannot be published without a government-issued license. Most Arab countries also have press laws, which impose boundaries on what can and cannot be said in print.\n\nCensorship plays a significant role in journalism in the Arab world. Censorship comes in a variety of forms: Self-censorship, Government Censorship (governments struggle to control through technological advances in ex. the internet), Ideology/Religious Censorship, and Tribal/Family/Alliances Censorship. Because Journalism in the Arab world comes with a range of dangers – journalists throughout the Arab world can be imprisoned, tortured, and even killed in their line of work – self-censorship is extremely important for many Arab journalists. A study conducted by the Center for Defending Freedom of Journalists (CDFJ) in Jordan, for example, found that the majority of Jordanian journalists exercise self-censorship. CPJ found that 34 journalists were killed in the region in 2012, 72 were imprisoned on December 1, 2012, and 126 were in exile from 2007 to 2012.\n\nA related point is that media owners and patrons have effects on the values of their outlets. Newspapers in the Arab world can be divided into three categories: government owned, partisan owned, and independently owned. Newspaper, radio, and television patronization in the Arab world has heretofore been primarily a function of governments. \"Now, newspaper ownership has been consolidated in the hands of powerful chains and groups. Yet, profit is not the driving force behind the launching of newspapers; publishers may establish a newspaper to ensure a platform for their political opinions, although it is claimed that this doesn’t necessarily influence the news content\". In the Arab world, as far as content is concerned, news is politics. Arab states are intimately involved in the economic well-being of many Arab news organizations so they apply pressure in several ways, most notably through ownership or advertising.\n\nSome analysts hold that cultural and societal pressures determine journalists' news output in the Arab world. For example, to the extent that family reputation and personal reputation are fundamental principles in Arab civilization, exposes of corruption, examples of weak moral fiber in governors and policy makers, and investigative journalism may have massive consequences. In fact, some journalists and media trainers in the Arab world nevertheless actively promote the centrality of investigative journalism to the media’s larger watchdog function. In Jordan, for example, where the degree of government and security service interference in the media is high, non-governmental organizations such as the Center for Defending the Freedom of Journalists (CDFJ) and Arab Reporters for Investigative Journalism (ARIJ) train journalists to undertake investigative journalism projects.\n\nSome Saudi journalists stress the importance of enhancing Islam through the media. The developmental role of media was acknowledged by an overwhelming majority of Saudi journalists, while giving the readers what they want was not regarded as a priority. However, journalism codes, as an important source for the study of media values, complicate this notion. Kai Hafez states, “The possible hypothesis that Islamic countries might not be interested in ‘truth’ and would rather propagate ‘Islam’ as the single truth cannot be verified completely because even a code that limits journalists’ freedom of expression to Islamic objectives and values, the Saudi Arabian code, demands that journalists present real facts.” In addition, Saudi journalists operate in an environment in which anti-religious talk is likely to be met with censorship.\n\nPatterns of consumption also affect media values. People in the Arab world rely on newspapers, magazines, radio, television, and the Internet to differing degrees and to meet a variety of ends. For Rugh, the proportion of radio and television receivers to Arab populations relative to UNESCO minimum standards suggests that radio and television are the most widely consumed media. He estimates that television reaches well over 100 million people in the region, and this number has likely grown since 2004. By contrast, he supposes that Arab newspapers are designed more for elite-consumption on the basis of their low circulation. He states, \"Only five Arab countries have daily newspapers which distribute over 60,000 copies and some have dailies only in the under-10,000 range. Only Egypt has dailies which distribute more than a half million copies.\" Estimating newspaper readership is complicated, however, by the fact that single newspapers can change hands many times in a day. Finally, the internet continues to be a fairly common denominator in Arab societies. A report by the Dubai School of Government and Bayt.com estimates that there are more than 125 million Internet users in the region, and that more than 53 million of them actively use social media. They caution, however, that while \"the internet has wide-ranging benefits, these benefits do not reach large segments of societies in the Arab region. The digital divide remains a significant barrier for many people. In many parts of the Arab world levels of educational attainment, economic activity, standards of living and internet costs still determine a person's access to life-changing technology. Further, according to Leo Gher and Hussein Amin, the Internet and other modern telecommunication services may serve to counter the effects of private and public ownership and patronage of the press. They state, \"Modern international telecommunications services now assist in the free flow of information, and neither inter-Arab conflicts nor differences among groups will affect the direct exchange of services provided by global cyberspace networks.\"\n\nIn most Arab countries, magazines cannot be published without a government-issued license. Magazines in the Arab world, like many of the magazines in the Western world, are geared towards women. However, the number of magazines in the Arab world is significantly smaller than that of the Western world. The Arab world is not as advertisement driven as the Western world. Advertisers fuel the funding for most Western magazines to exist. Thus, a lesser emphasis on advertisement in the Arab world plays into the low number of magazines.\n\nThere are 90 private radio stations throughout the Middle East and North Africa. (list of private radio stations in the Arab world)\n\nArab radio broadcasting began in the 1920s, but only a few Arab countries had their own broadcasting stations before World War II. After 1945, most Arab states began to create their own radio broadcasting systems, although it was not until 1970, when Oman opened its radio transmissions, that every one of them had its own radio station.\n\nAmong Arab countries, Egypt has been a leader in radio broadcasting from the beginning. Broadcasting began in Egypt in the 1920s with private commercial radio. In 1947, however, the Egyptian government declared radio a government monopoly and began investing in its expansion.\n\nBy the 1970s, Egyptian radio had fourteen different broadcast services with a total air time of 1,200 hours per week. Egypt is ranked third in the world among radio broadcasters. The programs were all government controlled, and much of the motivation for the government's investment in radio was due to the aspirations of President Gamal Abdel Nasser to be the recognized leader of the Arab world.\n\nEgypt's \"Voice of the Arabs\" station, which targeted other Arab countries with a constant stream of news and political features and commentaries, became the most widely heard station in the region. Only after the June 1967 war, when it was revealed that this station had misinformed the public about what was happening, did it lose some credibility; nevertheless it retained a large listenership.\n\nOn the Arabian Peninsula, radio was slower to develop. In Saudi Arabia, radio broadcasts started in the Jidda-Mecca area in 1948, but they did not start in the central or eastern provinces until the 1960s. Neighboring Bahrain had radio by 1955, but Qatar, Abu Dhabi, and Oman did not start indigenous radio broadcasting until nearly a quarter century later.\n\nAlmost all television channels in the Arab world were government-owned and strictly controlled prior to the 1990s. In the 1990s the spread of satellite television began changing television in Arab countries. Often noted as a pioneer, al-Jazeera represents a shift towards a more professional approach to news and current affairs. Financed by the Qatar government and established in 1996, al-Jazeera was the first Arabic channel to deliver extensive live news coverage, going so far as to send reporters to \"unthinkable\" places like Israel. Breaking the mold in more ways than one, al-Jazeera’s discussion programs raised subjects that had long been prohibited. However, in 2008, Egypt and Saudi Arabia called for a meeting to approve a charter to regulate satellite broadcasting. The Arab League Satellite Broadcasting Charter (2008) lays out principles for regulating satellite broadcasting in the Arab world.\n\nOther satellite channels:\n\n\n\"Across the Middle East, new television stations, radio stations and websites are sprouting like incongruous electronic mushrooms in what was once a media desert. Meanwhile newspapers are aggressively probing the red lines that have long contained them\". Technology is playing a significant role in the changing Arab media. Pintak furthers, \"Now, there are 263 free-to-air (FTA) satellite television stations in the region, according to Arab Advisors Group. That’s double the figure as of just two years ago\". Freedom of speech and money have little to do with why satellite television is sprouting up everywhere. Instead, \"A desire for political influence is probably the biggest factor driving channel growth. But ego is a close second\". The influence of the West is very apparent in Arab media, especially in television. Arab soap operas and the emerging popularity of reality TV are evidence of this notion.\n\n\"In the wake of controversy triggered by \"Super Star\" and \"Star Academy\", some observers have hailed reality television as a harbinger of democracy in the Arab world.\" \"Star Academy\" in Lebanon is strikingly similar to \"American Idol\" mixed with \"The Real World\". \"Star Academy\" began in 2003 in the Arab world. \"Reality television entered Arab public discourse in the last five years at a time of significant turmoil in the region: escalating violence in Iraq, contested elections in Egypt, the struggle for women’s political rights in Kuwait, political assassinations in Lebanon, and the protracted Arab-Israeli Conflict. This geo-political crisis environment that currently frames Arab politics and Arab-Western relations is the backdrop to the controversy surrounding the social and political impact of Arab reality television, which assumes religious, cultural or moral manifestations.\"\n\nMost Arab countries did not produce films before nation independence. In Sudan, Libya, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates, production is even now confined to short films or television. Bahrain witnessed the production of its first and only full-length feature film in 1989. In Jordan national production has barely exceeded half a dozen feature films. Algeria and Iraq have produced approximately 100 films each, Morocco around seventy, Tunisia around 130, and Syria some 150. Lebanon, owing to an increased production during the 1950s and 1960s, has made some 180 feature films. Only Egypt has far exceeded these countries, with a production of more than 2,500 feature films (all meant for cinema, not television). As with most aspects of Arab media, censorship plays a large art of creating and distributing films. \"In most Arab countries, film projects must first pass a state committee, which grants or denies permission to shoot. Once this permission is obtained, another official license, a so-called visa, is necessary in order to exploit the film commercially. This is normally approved by a committee of the Ministry of Information or a special censorship authority\". The most significant taboo topics under state supervision are consistent with those of other forms of media: religion, sex, and politics.\n\nThe Internet in the Arab world is powerful source of expression and information as it is in other places in the world. While some believe that it is the harbinger of freedom in media to the Middle East, others think that it is a new medium for censorship. Both are true. The Internet has created a new arena for discussion and the dissemination of information for the Arab world just as it has in the rest of the world. The youth in particular are accessing and utilizing the tools. People are encouraged and enabled to join in political discussion and critique in a manner that was not previously possible. Those same people are also discouraged and blocked from those debates as the differing regimes try to restrict access based on religious and state objections to certain material.\n\nThis was posted on a website operated by the Muslim Brotherhood:\nThe internet in the Arab world has a snowball effect; now that the snowball is rolling, it can no longer be stopped. Getting bigger and stronger, it is bound to crush down all obstacles. In addition, to the stress caused by the Arab bloggers, a new forum was opened for Arab activists; Facebook. Arab activists have been using Facebook in the utmost creative way to support the democracy movement in the region, a region that has one of the highest rates of repression in the world. Unlike other regions where oppressive countries (like China, Iran and Burma) represent the exception, oppression can be found everywhere in the Arab world. The number of Arab internet users interested in political affairs does not exceed a few thousands, mainly represented by internet activists and bloggers, out of 58 million internet users in the Arab world. As few as they are, they have succeeded in shedding some light on the corruption and repression of the Arab governments and dictatorships.\nPublic Internet use began in the US in the 1980s. Internet access began in the early 1990s in the Arab world, with Tunisia being first in 1991 according to Dr. Deborah L. Wheeler. The years of the Internet's introduction in the various Arab countries are reported differently. Wheeler reports that Kuwait joined in 1992, and in 1993, Turkey, Iraq and the UAE came online. In 1994 Jordan joined the Internet, and Saudi Arabia and Syria followed in the late 1990s. Financial considerations and the lack of widespread availability of services are factors in the slower growth in the Arab world, but taking into consideration the popularity of internet cafes, the numbers online are much larger than the subscription numbers would reveal.\n\nThe people most commonly utilizing the Internet in the Arab world are youths. The café users in particular tend to be under 30, single and have a variety of levels of education and language proficiency. Despite reports that use of the internet was curtailed by lack of English skills, Dr. Wheeler found that people were able to search with Arabic. Searching for jobs, the unemployed frequently fill cafes in Egypt and Jordan. They are men and women equally. Most of them chat and they have email. In a survey conducted by Dr. Deborah Wheeler, she found them to almost all to have been taught to use the Internet by a friend or family member. They all felt their lives to have been significantly changed by the use of the Internet. The use of the Internet in the Arab world is very political in the nature of the posts and of the sites read and visited. The Internet has brought a medium to Arabs that allows for a freedom of expression not allowed or accepted before. For those who can get online, there are blogs to read and write and access to worldwide outlets of information once unobtainable. With this access, regimes have attempted to curtail what people are able to read, but the Internet is a medium not as easily manipulated as telling a newspaper what it can or cannot publish. The Internet can be reached via proxy server, mirror, and other means. Those who are thwarted with one method will find 12 more methods around the blocked site. As journalists suffer and are imprisoned in traditional media, the Internet is no different with bloggers regularly being imprisoned for expressing their views for the world to read. The difference is that there is a worldwide audience witnessing this crackdown and watching as laws are created and recreated to attempt to control the vastness of the Internet.\n\nJihadists are using the Internet to reach a greater audience. Just as a simple citizen can now have a worldwide voice, so can a movement. Groups are using the Internet to share video, photos, programs and any kind of information imaginable. Standard media may not report what the Muslim Brotherhood would say on their site. However, for the interested, the Internet is a tool that is utilized with great skill by those who wish to be heard. A file uploaded to 100 sites and placed in multiple forums will reach millions instantly. Information on the Internet can be thwarted, slowed, even redirected, but it cannot be stopped if someone wants it out there on the Internet.\n\nThe efforts by the various regimes to control the information are all falling apart gradually. Those fighting crime online have devised methods of tracking and catching criminals. Unfortunately those same tools are being used to arrest bloggers and those who would just wish to be heard. The Internet is a vast and seemingly endless source of information. Arabs are using it more than perhaps the world is aware and it is changing the media.\n\nSocial loyalty is of great importance in Arab culture. Family is one of the most important aspects of the Arab society. While self-reliance, individuality, and responsibility are taught by Arabic parents to their children, family loyalty is the greatest lesson taught in Arab families. \"Unlike the extreme individualism we see in North America (every person for him or herself, individual rights, families living on their own away from relatives, and so on), Arab society emphasizes the importance of the group. Arab culture teaches that the needs of the group are more important than the needs of one person.\" In the Bedouin tribes of Saudi Arabia, \"intense feelings of loyalty and dependence are fostered and preserved\" by the family. Margaret Nydell, in her book \"Understanding Arabs: A Guide for Modern Times\", writes \"family loyalty and obligations take precedence over loyalty to friends or demands of a job.\" She goes on to state that \"members of a family are expected to support each other in disputes with outsiders. Regardless of personal antipathy among relatives, they must defend each other’s honor, counter criticism, and display group cohesion...\" Of all members of the family, however, the most revered member is the mother.\n\nFamily honor is one of the most important characteristics in the Arab family. According to Margaret Nydell, social exchanges between men and women happen very seldom outside of the work place. Men and women refrain from being alone together. They have to be very careful in social situations because those interactions can be interpreted negatively and cause gossip, which can tarnish the reputation of women. Women are able to socialize freely with other women and male family members, but have to have family members present to socialize with men that are not part of the family. These conservative practices are put into place to protect the reputation of women. Bad behavior not only affects women but her family’s honor. Practices differ between countries and families. Saudi Arabia has stricter practices when it comes to men and women and will even require marriage documents if a woman and man are seen together alone.\n\nArab values\nOne of the characteristics of Arabs is generosity and they usually show it by being courteous with each other. Some of the most important values for Arabs are honor and loyalty. Margaret Nydell, in her book \"Understanding Arabs: A Guide for Modern Times' \" says that Arabs can be defined as, humanitarian, loyal and polite. Tarek Mahfouz explains in the book \"Arab Culture\" that it is common for Arabs in dinner situations to insist on guests to eat the last piece of the meal or to fight over who will pay the bill at a restaurant for generosity.\"\n\nFemale Infanticide \nLike many societies around the world, the preference for a son is much higher than that for a daughter in the Arab world. In pre-Islamic Arabia, husbands would go as far as burying female infants alive because of the shame it caused them among their peers. Women are typically seen as a burden whereas men represent honor and dignity to a family. Muhammad revealed a verse which deals with this phenomenon. It says, \"And God will ask the female infant who had been buried alive (\"mau'udda\") for what wrongdoing was she killed.\" This practice is long gone in the Arab world, but the sentiment of having a son over a daughter still resides and women are still subject to divorce for failure to give birth to a son as a first born child.\n\nThe Pan Arab Games are a regional multi-sport event held between nations from the Arab world. The first Games were held in 1953 in Alexandria, Egypt. Intended to be held every four years since, political turmoil as well as financial difficulties has made the event an unstable one. Women were first allowed to compete in 1985. By the 11th Pan Arab Games, the number of countries participating reached all 22 members of the Arab League, with roughly over 8,000 Arab athletes participating, it was considered the largest in the Games History, with the Doha Games in 2011 expected to exceed that number.\n\nWomen around the world have struggled in the professional world of sports since it has been something that has been dominated by men. When looking at the Arab world currently there is an emergence of Arab women playing sports, something that for the most part is not much discussed but is of great importance. Muslim Arab women are taking part in playing on futsal, football (soccer), softball, basketball, and various other teams. Some women are participating in boxing, archery, running, swimming, tennis and other individual sports. Because more Muslim women are playing sports, sportswear is being developed so that a woman can still be able to participate in sports like swimming without limiting their participation due to the way they choose to dress. Although women have received great support from family members in playing sports, there is still much criticism towards female athletes in the Arab world. Many conservative men have criticized that sports and women do not go together and that a woman would not be able to wear her headscarf or should not wear shorts while playing sports.\n\nSome people do not see Islam and women playing sports as being compatible. Despite the various criticisms Arab women around the Arab world face, it has not stopped the popularity of women’s participation in sports. Football is one of the sports that has exploded in popularity with women in the Arab world. With the coming of the Women’s World Cup in 2011, there is a Women’s Football Cup Arabia occurring in Bahrain which is bringing together women’s teams from all over the Arab world to play in competition. There are teams in Syria, Palestine, Lebanon, Egypt, Algeria, Morocco, Libya and Jordan and events like this show that, as said by Dr. Sahar al Hawary who is a member of FIFA’s Women’s Committee from Egypt, \"women's football can be promoted at the highest level and watched in the Arab world... women's football can be promoted at the highest level and watched in the Arab world\".\n\nArab women are also challenging and becoming a part of sports that even outside of the Arab world are considered not for women. There are Arab women who are participating in boxing, even reaching international competition levels. Arab women are not limiting themselves and although they receive criticism from some of society, their families and communities have been very supportive while still considering themselves conservative and faithful to Islam. These women and their families are challenging the very narrow view that society at times has of the capabilities of women and have inspired women all around the Arab world to not limit themselves. Despite this occurring in the Arab world, what these Arab female athletes are doing is an inspiration to women all over the globe.\n\nOriginally, the Arabs of the Arabian Peninsula relied heavily on a diet of dates, wheat, barley, rice and meat, with little variety, with a heavy emphasis on yoghurt products, such as leben (لبن) (yoghurt without butterfat). Arabian cuisine today is the result of a combination of richly diverse cuisines, spanning the Arab world and incorporating Levantine, Egyptian, and others. It has also been influenced to a degree by the cuisines of India, Turkey, Berber, and others. In an average Arab household in the Persian Gulf area, a visitor might expect a dinner consisting of a very large platter, shared commonly, with a vast mountain of rice, incorporating lamb or chicken, or both, as separate dishes, with various stewed vegetables, heavily spiced, sometimes with a tomato sauce. Most likely, there would be several other items on the side, less hearty. Tea would certainly accompany the meal, as it is almost constantly consumed. Coffee would be included as well.\n\nTea is a very important drink in the Arab world, it is usually served with breakfast, after lunch, and with dinner. For Arabs tea is a hospitality drink that is served to guests. It is also common for Arabs to drink tea with dates.\n\nArab dress for men ranges from the traditional flowing robes to blue jeans, T-shirts and business suits. The robes allow for maximum circulation of air around the body to help keep it cool, and the head dress provides protection from the sun. At times, Arabs mix the traditional garb with clothes.\n\nThobe\nIn the Arab states of the Persian Gulf men usually wear their national dress that is called \"thobe\" but can be also called \"Dishdasha\" (Kuwait) or \"Kandoura\" (UAE). \"Thobes\" differ slightly from state to state within the Gulf, but the basic ones are white. This is the traditional attire that Arabs wear in formal occasions.\n\nHeaddress\nThe male headdress is also known as Keffiyeh. Headdress pattern might be an indicator of which tribe, clan, or family the wearer comes from. However, this is not always the case. While in one village, a tribe or clan might have a unique headdress, in the next town over an unrelated tribe or clan might wear the same headdress.\n\n\nGuthra (headdress) in the Arab states of the Persian Gulf\nThe male headdress in the Gulf states is called Guthra and it is different in each country (size and shape). It is usually worn with a black cord called \"agal\" that keeps the guthra on the wearer's head.\n\nAdherence to traditional dress varies across Arab societies. Saudi Arabia is more traditional, while Egypt is less so. Traditional Arab dress features the full length body cover (abaya, jilbāb, or chador) and veil (hijab). Women are only required to wear \"abayas\" in Saudi Arabia. In most countries, like Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Jordan, Syria, Palestine and Egypt, the veil is not prevalent.\n\n"}
{"id": "22855675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22855675", "title": "Argobba people", "text": "Argobba people\n\nThe Argobba are an ethnic group inhabiting Ethiopia. A Muslim community, they are spread out through isolated village networks and towns in the northeastern and eastern parts of the country. Group members have typically been astute traders and merchants, and have adjusted to the economic trends in their area. These factors have led to a decline in usage of the Argobba language.\n\nArgobba communities can be found in the Afar, Harari, Amhara, and Oromia Regions, in and along the Great Rift Valley. They include Yimlawo, Gusa, Shonke, Berehet, Khayr Amba, Melka Jilo, Aliyu Amba, Metehara, Shewa Robit, and the surrounding rural villages.\n\nThe Argobba traditionally speak the Argobba language, an Afro-Asiatic language of the Semitic branch. In some places, Argobba has homogenized with Oromo. In other areas, the people have shifted to neighboring languages for economic reasons. At this time there are only a few areas left where the Argobba are not at least bilingual in Amharic, Oromiffa or Afar. All of these languages have a literature that can be used to serve the Argobba, even though their current literacy rate in any language is low; the Argobba reportedly do not like to send their children to school and do not go to court.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35300351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35300351", "title": "Assyrians in France", "text": "Assyrians in France\n\nThere are around 16,000 Assyrians in France, most of which are concentrated in the Paris metropolitan area.\n\nThe community has a history in France dating back to the First World War, with most arriving due to ethnic and religious conflicts, leaving Turkey, Iran, Iraq, and Syria.\n\nThe bulk of the Assyrian presence dates back to the early 20th century, when some Assyrians, fleeing the Assyrian genocide, found refuge in France. Others arrived from rural south-eastern Turkey as a result of the Kurdish–Turkish conflict in the 1960s and 70s. Their numbers swelled after the Iraq War in 2003 by those arriving from Iraqi cities.\n\nAround 10,000 of the 16,000 Assyrians live in Sarcelles, a suburb of Paris. They are generally compared to French Jews who are seen as inward-looking, conservative and well-integrated in the French society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12450155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12450155", "title": "Assyrians in Russia", "text": "Assyrians in Russia\n\nAssyrians in Russia number from 14,000 (according to the 2002 census) up to 70,000.\n\nAssyrians came to Russia and the Soviet Union in three main waves: \n\nIn recent years, the Assyrians have tended to assimilate, but their cultural and ethnic identity, strengthened through centuries of hardships, found new expression under Glasnost.\n\nAccording to the 2002 Russian census there were 13,649 Assyrians in Russia. 7,762 people (56.9% of all Assyrians) spoke Assyrian as native language.\n\n"}
{"id": "6319107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6319107", "title": "Avikam language", "text": "Avikam language\n\nAvikam is one of the Lagoon languages of Ivory Coast, spoken in Grand Lahou Département, Avikam Canton, South Department. It is a Kwa language, closely related to Alladian, but other than that its position is unclear.\n"}
{"id": "45503528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45503528", "title": "Blusas", "text": "Blusas\n\nBlusas are Basque citizens who dress in the traditional clothes of the region and attend events in Vitoria-Gasteiz (Basque Country) such as the Virgen Blanca Festivities. The \"blusas\" assemble in groups called \"cuadrillas\" and their main role is to provide entertainment at these events.\n\nEtymologically, \"blusas\" comes from the Basque language and refers to the typical blouse worn a festivities. However, this word was a loanword from the Spanish \"blusa\" which describes the clothes worn in the countryside by farmers. It was also a loanword from the French \"blouse\" which itself had a German origin.\n\nThe festivities in Vitoria-Gasteiz have a rural origin. Throughout history they have been developed in accordance with the population. \nEven though the beginning of the \"blusas\" tradition is pretty unknown, it is believed that it may have a direct relationship with the myth of \"Celedón\". There are several versions of this story as the tale was passed down orally. However, two have been reckoned by the Basque traditions as the most reliable ones:\n\nThis emblematic character of the Basque was undoubtedly the origin of the festivities of Vitoria-Gasteiz. It is a mystery when did officially the \"blusas\" and \"neskas\" start with the tradition of dressing up but it is believed that at the very beginning, there used to be only men. However, those ancient characteristics have gradually changed up to the point that nowadays almost every \"cuadrilla\" are mixed. One curiosity could be that it is thought \"blusas\" have celebrated this tradition from its very beginning to nowadays inconstantly, but after the civil war and the time of the dictation this tradition disappeared for some years.\n\nThese groups are usually thought to be just the grouping of inhabitants in the festivities but it is far more than that. In fact, they give social aid by going to elderly's residences or organizing special events for children during the year. Also their brotherhood goes much further as in other festivities such as \"San Prudencio\" they also hang up. The \"cuadrillas\", have the curiosity that inside them there are not real rules. Nevertheless, they do have some unwritten ones, which are given from the veterans to the freshmen. Besides, everybody has the opportunity to join these groups in exchange of some money.\n\nBlusas are the main cheerleaders of festivals and thus, their routine is connected with it. Their activities could be divided into two parts:\n\nThe blusas wear the typical rural attire the Araba natives once wore. The outfit consists of a shirt, a \"blusa\" (blouse), a pair of trousers and the \"albarcas\" whereas \"neskak\" wear a blouse, long skirt and \"albarcas\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27778266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27778266", "title": "Center on Race, Poverty &amp; the Environment", "text": "Center on Race, Poverty &amp; the Environment\n\nThe Center on Race, Poverty & the Environment (CRPE) is a California-based environmental justice organization founded in 1989 dedicated to providing legal aid to grassroots organizations in environmental justice communities. CRPE helps communities dealing with problems related to the disproportionate burden of pollution placed upon poor people and people of color. CRPE’s mission is “to achieve environmental justice and healthy, sustainable communities through collective action and the law”. As part of this mission, CRPE provides organizational, technical, and legal assistance to help underserved communities stop immediate environmental threats. With their main offices located in San Francisco and Delano, CA, they conduct most of their efforts in Central California, especially the San Joaquin Valley, which includes Delano and Kern County, but they also work across the United States.\n\nThe two founders of CRPE, Luke Cole and Ralph Abascal, created the organization in 1989. In order to help the environmental justice movement, Cole continued to push the philosophy of a “from the ground up” framework. This ultimately means that the CRPE works to establish a foundation that is community based in which it focuses on organizing directly through the members of society that are impacted by environmental justice issues. It focuses on three objectives; \"(1) to build individual capacity; (2) increase community power vis-a-vis decision-makers; and (3) address environmental hazards facing the community.\" Abascal was an attorney for over 29 years and was dedicated to helping clients of various environmental justice topics and also worked to educate others on civil rights advocacy. There are numerous locations that CRPE focuses their work, but most of their efforts are rooted in California, specifically in the San Joaquin Valley and Kern County, which includes the city of Delano, home to many CRPE efforts. CRPE has offices in San Francisco and Delano, CA. CRPE has also conducted work in Alaska.\n\nThe Center on Race, Poverty and the Environment operates with the help of environmental justice attorneys and lawyers. Co-founder Luke Cole provided legal and technical assistance to attorneys and community groups involved in environmental justice struggles nationwide. Berkeley’s Ecology Law Quarterly awarded him with the Environmental Leadership Award in 1997. Ingrid Brostrom and Caroline Farrell are also noteworthy people associated with CRPE and the legal side of environmental justice. Brostrom is an attorney and Assistant Director at CRPE who focuses on helping low-income communities that are disproportionately faced with environmental injustices. Farrell is the Executive Director at CRPE and based out of the Delano office. She advocates for communities of color as well as low-income communities by leading many different environmental justice groups. She is known to be a major leader in environmental advocacy in the Valley. \n\nCRPE participates in many campaigns and legal disputes to support the health and rights of underrepresented communities and communities of color who struggle under the burdens of environmental injustices. This organization works to provide solutions for the communities for both environmental and health issues. CRPE uses integrated legal techniques to work towards the goals of environmental justice groups that they are working with.\n\nThe Romo v. Brown is one of CRPE’s major open legal cases that surrounds climate change and energy issues. This case involves Governor Jerry Brown’s decision to sign the Senate Bill No. 4, ending regulation on hydraulic fracturing, also known as fracking. Fracking is a process that extracts natural gas from reservoirs beneath the surface by spraying large amounts of water mixed with sand and chemicals into the rock to break it. On Nov 9th 2015 the Kern County Board of Supervisors passed an amendment, which allowed oil & gas zoning permits to be obtained quickly and without the public’s knowledge through public hearings. These two issues caused Rodrigo Romo to sue the Governor and the Division of Oil, Gas & Geothermal Resources due to various health issues his daughters face. Other community members were also upset, and went on a 4-day fast (known as the Cruz Fasts) to protest the amendment and Senate Bill. These actions from the community members attempted to end fracking and other oil extraction methods. All the chemicals produced throughout the fracking process releases high amounts of pollutants into the air, including methane, benzene, nitrogen oxides (NOx), and hydrogen sulfide. These pollutants destroy the ozone layer, leaving Kern County third in most ozone pollution. This could potentially lead to many negative health effects from high level of particulate matter.\nCRPE also represented the residents of Kettleman City, another area in the San Joaquin Valley that is exposed to environmental hazards due to growing industrial demands. Oil and gas production have exposed this small town and its community members to various chemical hazards. One of the largest waste facilities in the region is only 3 miles from the city.\n\nIn another legal battle, CRPE represented the Inupiat town of Kivalina as they sued Exxonmobil in the case of Kivalina vs Exxonmobil Corp. for contributing to climate change. Kivalina is located on an island which was protected from erosion by winter freezing however, as the arctic gets warmer, this ice is no longer protecting the island’s shores from erosion. With the help of CRPE, they took this case to federal court, demanding that these companies pay for their relocation as their island shrunk. This was a historic case that set the tone for the use of common law in the fight against large corporations in the battle against climate change. They ultimately lost the suit.\n\nCRPE sued multiple dairies in the San Joaquin valley over their noncompliance with US Environmental Protection Agency regulations. They allied with other groups to address harmful methane emissions produced by these farms. One farm was building a facility that would house more cows than allowed under the EPA regulations. This dairy asserted that they would only house the number of cows allowed under EPA regulations, and that they would never use the facility to its full capacity. CRPE sued under the Clean Air Act, arguing that the dairy’s claims differed from their actions.\n\nCRPE wrote a report about the institutional failures of the EPA, with regard to specific cases concerning agricultural justice in California. In the report, CRPE states that the EPA denied socioeconomically underserved communities in California’s agricultural centers appropriate protection from pesticide exposure, including areas where schoolchildren were affected. This reported include claims regarding improper administration of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act.\n\nCRPE in conjunction with the Center for Environmental Health (CEH) worked on a lawsuit against Dow Chemical Company for the use of Telone, a pesticide that they have found often impacts Latino communities. CRPE and CEH, base their case in the findings by the California Department of Health that Latino school aged children are significantly more likely to be exposed to the highest levels of toxic pesticides such as Telone. CRPE stated claims that the state had ignored the threats that their chemicals posed to the health of local schools and communities. In their legal action, CRPE called for an end of fumigation and high levels of pesticide use in these California communities. \n\nAir pollution is a large source of environmental distress in the San Joaquin Valley, a central point of most work done by CRPE. Air pollution has been connected to public health problems, such as asthma and cancer. In one study, researchers determined that air quality in the very polluted San Joaquin Valley, a socioeconomically underserved region, may contribute to the development of congenital conditions in marginalized communities. This air pollution affects many communities that CRPE represents as part of their work called “Toxics in our Environment”.\n\nIn one case taken on by CRPE, the California Portland Cement Company was burning tires in Kern County, and releasing highly toxic chemicals into the surrounding atmosphere. The public protested against this pollution, but California Portland and the Kern County Air Pollution Control District did not respond to concerns and challenged any presented lawsuits. CRPE represented the Kern County community members in opposition of California Portland and the Air District to help reduce toxins in the environment of this central California community.\n\nIn another case, CRPE vs. San Joaquin Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District, CRPE sued the Air District, a government organization committed to protecting air quality in San Joaquin, for failing to meet air quality standards for ozone set by the Clean Air Act for three consecutive years. The ozone problem has prevented the San Joaquin Valley, a region home to many Hispanic/Latinx farmworkers, from having healthy air since the 1970s, mostly due to the Air District’s inability to implement ozone pollution control measures that would reduce ozone emissions by regulating emissions of VOCs and NOx, ozone creating chemicals. Eventually, the Air District settled the lawsuit, promising to implement the measures. Since the case was settled, the amount of ozone in the community has been reduced.\n\nIn a more remote case, CRPE joined with other groups to represent the town of Kivalina in Alaska, as they fought to hold Red Dog mine accountable for illegal pollution of waterways with mining waste and debris. The EPA listed the Red Dog mine as the top source of toxic emissions in the country, and it is the largest zinc mine in the world. Kivalina is a small Inupiat town, where the nearby mine’s pollution contaminated fish and other animals needed for Kivalina’s subsistence. Kivalina claims that Red Dog has violated its permit over 4,000 times. Represented by CRPE, Kivalina sued Teck Cominco, the mine’s parent company. Teck Cominco claimed that the rivers have been made cleaner by the mining, along with the removal of zinc. They also asserted that their failure to meet permit requirements is due to Kivalina blocking their efforts to renew their permit.\n\nThe Delano Guardians Committee represents members of Kern County in the decision making processes within the city council. In a lawsuit between the city of Delano and the Delano Guardians Committee, the Delano Guardians sued the city over rising utility rates. The lawsuit claimed that by facilitating these increases the city violated policies that state a majority of voters must approve property-related fees. CRPE helped the Delano Guardians and people of Delano fight the city by providing them with legal aid and representation.\n\nCRPE has also worked with the Comite Progreso de Lamont, a group of community members working towards improving the lives of the citizens of Lamont in Kern County. Through their joint efforts they succeeded in their east side sidewalks project. This project will create sidewalks in an area where numerous accidents have occurred.\n\nAdditionally, CRPE, along with The Power to the People Campaign, has worked with Kern County community members to help define and establish guidelines for a healthy community. The guidelines are as follows:\n\n\nThrough these guidelines, and their community investments, CRPE aims to build and protect the communities of Kern County. Citizens face many issues, including unemployment rates as high as 9.9%, which often disproportionately affect the large Hispanic population within the county. While these guidelines were created to help the citizens Kern County, it is hoped that they can also be implemented in the other counties that comprise the San Joaquin Valley. \n\nCRPE supports the missions of many grassroots organizations in the San Joaquin Valley and often partners with one or more groups at a time to help improve a community’s wellbeing and environment. In doing so, the CRPE demonstrates organizational integration, which involves lawyers merging their work with the goals of environmental justice groups or organizations they work with. Some of CRPE’s partners include: the Committee for a Better Arvin, the Committee for a Better Shafter, Delano Guardians, Greenfield Walking Group, and Comite Progreso de Lamont. The Committee for a Better Arvin, with the help of CRPE, strives to obtain better water and air quality for marginalized communities. The Committee for a Better Shafter currently receives help from CRPE in the Romo Case concerning fracking and energy issues in their low income town. CRPE helped Delano Guardians sue the city of Delano over unfair spikes in utility costs that highly impacted the low income community. The Greenfield Walking Group and CRPE teamed up to create a walkability assessment that led to the clean up of Greenfield, CA parks with the goal of making the mainly Latinx/Hispanic community safer and healthier by picking up litter, refurbishing paths, and implementing measures aimed at reducing gang presence in the parks. CRPE and the Comite Progreso de Lamont work to promote a clean environment and better community for health and education in Lamont, CA, a low income community of color burdened by many environmental issues, especially air pollution. All of these partnerships involve CRPE providing legal aid and support to grassroots organizations in order to improve underserved communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "1820273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820273", "title": "Chaush (India)", "text": "Chaush (India)\n\nThe Chaush () are Muslim community of Hadhrami Arab descent found in the Deccan region of India. The name is believed to originate from the Turkish word Chiaus used during the Ottoman era of the Balkans for military officers who were often tasked with guarding palaces. They have a common origin with the Chavuse community of Gujarat.\n\nThe Chaush were brought from Yemen to work in the former Hyderabad State as military men and body guards for the Nizams. It is said that especially when it came to safe guarding his family, the 7th Nizam had absolute trust on these Arab bodyguards.\n\nThe founders of both the Qu'aiti and Kathiri states in Hadhramawt had previously served as jemadars in Hyderabad.\n\nAmong the best known cultural contributions of the Chaush to India are Marfa music and dance, and Hyderabadi haleem, both which are culturally important to the Hyderbadi Muslim people, and seen at almost all wedding ceremonies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24876391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24876391", "title": "College of Agriculture and Natural Resources", "text": "College of Agriculture and Natural Resources\n\nThe College of Agriculture and Renewable Natural Resources (CANR) is one of the six Colleges of today’s Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology. It was formed in January 2005 following the promulgation of the revised University statuses in December 2004. It emerged from the former Faculty of Agriculture, the Institute of Renewable Natural Resources and the School of Forestry. The College has a total of 13 academic departments with a student population of approximately 2000 and an academic staff strength of about 90, and 130 supporting staff.\n\nThe College of Agriculture and Natural Resources was established in January 2005, following the promulgation of the revised University statutes in December 2004. It was formed from the former Faculty of Agriculture, the Institute of Renewable Natural Resources and the School of Forestry, Sunyani. The College is mandated to train and equip graduates with the requisite academic and entrepreneurial skills in the areas of agricultural production and natural resource management for sustainable national development, in addition to carrying out research and extension services in these areas.\n\nThe College of Agriculture and Natural Resources is one of the six Colleges of the University, with a mandate to train, research and disseminate knowledge in sustainable agriculture, renewable natural resources management and rural development.\n\nThe College offers a variety of programmes for both undergraduate and graduate studies. Programmes are regularly reviewed while new programmes are so structured to ensure ready job market for our graduates. Quality training which blends theory with practicals prepare students to face real world situation and also offer practical solution to problems.\n\nThe College is involved in a number of collaborative researches with National and International Institutions and Organizations such as FORIG, MOFA, Forestry Commission, ICRA, and CIDA among others.\n\nLocated at the west end of the University campus, CANR houses three Faculties:\n\n\n\n\nIn addition to the Faculties, CANR has four(4) Research Centres:\n\nThe College of Agriculture and Natural Resources offers undergraduate programmes leading to the award of a Bachelor of Science degree as well as postgraduate programmes leading to the award of MSc, MPhil or PhD degrees.\n\nBSc degrees are awarded by the College's Faculties with specialisation options in the departments in those Faculties.\n\nThe college runs the following postgraduate programmes.\n"}
{"id": "36335717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36335717", "title": "Corruption in France", "text": "Corruption in France\n\nCorruption in France describes the prevention and occurrence of corruption in France.\n\nFrance has ratified several important international anti-corruption conventions such as the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions and the United Nations Convention against Corruption. In general, investors do not consider corruption a problem for doing business in France, and companies operating in France generally have a good reputation of corporate social responsibility.\n\nThe French National Assembly have proved two bills for combating tax evasion. However, in recent years there are several corruption scandals involving high-ranking public officials. Public works and the defence industry are considered the most affected by corruption.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 23rd place out of 180 countries.\n\nIn 2011, Transparency International concluded in its annual report for 2011 that France does not do enough to stop corruption. A TNS Sofres poll in October 2011 indicated that 72% of the French public had the perception that politicians are corrupt.\n\nIn France in 2009 all major foreign investors and exporters and more than 80 per cent of surveyed executives admitted to 'not being familiar at all' with one of the most important legal frameworks in global business. A cartel constitutes a crime punishable by imprisonment and/or fines. Staff and budgets for public enforcement of securities regulation was ca one third in France compared to UK in 2008.\n\nPolitical corruption studies include the presidential campaign 2007 finance investigation in the value of 150,000 € from Liliane Bettencourt to Nicolas Sarkozy. Maximum individual support is 4,600 €. Jacques Chirac was accused of using public funds for his election campaign in Paris in the 1990s. \nOn 15 December 2011, Chirac was found guilty and given a suspended sentence of two years. He was convicted of diverting public funds, abuse of trust and illegal conflict of interest. The suspended sentence meant he did not have to go to prison, and took into account his age, health, and status as a former head of state. He did not attend his trial, since medical doctors deemed that his neurological problems damaged his memory.\n\nBribery investigations from South Africa to France are ongoing, including bribery claims of Jacques Chirac, Dominique de Villepin and Jean-Marie Le Pen bribery claim from Gabon ex-president Omar Bongo. In September 2011 was judged Bernard Granie of 300 000 bribery from Provence Recyclage.\n\nAlstom has been under investigation in France and Switzerland for allegedly making improper payments of US$200 million for contracts for Brazil's Itá hydroelectric plant, for São Paulo's subway expansion and for other major works in Venezuela, Singapore and Indonesia. The Mexican government has penalised Alstom and in 2007 the European Commission's antitrust authority fined Alstom €65 million for price fixing with competitors.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "41286986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41286986", "title": "Corruption in Germany", "text": "Corruption in Germany\n\nTransparency International’s Global Corruption Barometer 2013 reveals that political parties and businesses are the most corrupt institutions in Germany. \n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 12th place out of 180 countries. The same report also indicates that petty corruption is not as uncommon as in other European countries. The survey shows that 11% of the respondents claim to have been asked to pay a bribe at one point in their life and only few of those said that they had refused to pay the bribe.\n\nAccording to Freedom House's report, Germany’s ability to ensure integrity and to prevent corruption in state bodies is generally sufficient due to a strong institutional setup. \n\nRegarding business and corruption, business executives from World Economic Forum Global Competitiveness Report 2013-2014 consider tax regulations and restrictive labour regulations as the most problematic factors for doing business. They also report that trust in the ethical standards of politicians is relatively high, and that irregular payments and bribes only rarely take place in relation to public services.\n\n"}
{"id": "53845266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53845266", "title": "Crime in Saint Kitts and Nevis", "text": "Crime in Saint Kitts and Nevis\n\nCrime in Saint Kitts and Nevis, as with many other countries and territories in Latin America and the Caribbean, is considerably higher than in other parts of the world. Most violence and criminal activity in the country is believed to be gang and drug related.\n\nIn 2012 Saint Kitts and Nevis had a homicide rate of 33.6 per 100,000 citizens, the 8th highest in the world. As of 2011 Basseterre had the highest murder rate of any capital city in the world at 131.6 per 100,000 inhabitants (a total of 17 murders in the city that year).\n\nSaint Kitts and Nevis gained its independence in 1983. In 2001 the country's homicide rate was at an all time low with only 6 murders reported that year. Since then however there has been a rapid rise in homicides and other crimes. 2011 was the worst year for homicides in the country with 34 murders reported, giving the country a homicide rate of 67.6 per 100,000 citizens, at that time one of the top three in the world. Since 2011 measures and precautions have been placed by the government that have reduced the number of murders. The Saint Kitts government has also claimed that these measures more than halved crime during that period although this claim has been viewed skeptically by independent organizations.\n\nGenerally speaking the courts and police in Saint Kitts and Nevis are considered effective and corruption free, and the legal system is considered effective. However there is a lack of civilian oversight and interaction with the police department, as well as occasional reports of abuse perpetrated by the police. The biggest barrier to fighting crime is seen as the country's outdated prison system, with many, if not all, prisons old and overcrowded. Building new prisons and improving the relationships between the police and community are seen as the biggest improvements the government can make to combat crime.\n\nTourism plays a significant role in the Saint Kitts and Nevis economy, and despite the levels of crime tourists are not usually victims. A rare instance of tourists being targeted happened in 2010 when an elderly British couple were murdered in a courtyard.\n\nFirearms have been increasingly used in crimes on Saint Kitts and Nevis. In 2003 only 63.6 percent of murders were gun-related, while in 2010 it had risen to 85 percent. The global average of firearm-related homicides is 42 percent.\n\nSince the turn of the 21st century there has been an increase in gang and drug-related violence and crime. Cocaine especially is known to be frequently trafficked through the country, although the presence of the drug trade is considered relatively minor compared to other Caribbean and Latin American countries. Transnational gangs are not believed to operate in the country.\n\nMost gang activities relate to drug trafficking as well as petty crime, robberies, and extortion. Many homicides and attempted homicides are believed to be drug and gang-related, many caused by rival factions fighting over turf.\n\nA rivalry starting in 2008 is credited with the escalation of violence in the country. The Saint Kitts and Nevis government eventually arrested several gang leaders, one of which was later executed by hanging.\n\nMale homosexuality is considered a crime in Saint Kitts in Nevis. By law homosexuality will result in 10 years in prison, and male-on-male assault can be punished with 4 years imprisoned. However actual prosecution of homosexuality is rare, as many members of the LGTB community have hidden their sexual identity due to social stigma.\n\nIn 2015 Saint Kitts and Nevis was named by the BBC in a report as \"the most violent place on earth\". The BBC's report was widely criticized in Saint Kitts and Nevis for exaggerating the level of violence and crime in the country. The police department of Saint Kitts and Nevis released a report shortly afterwards stating that crime in the country had fallen 60% in the time period from 2011 and 2015, as well as the fact that visitors and tourist to Saint Kitts and Nevis are rarely targeted.\n"}
{"id": "48669473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48669473", "title": "Dansaekhwa", "text": "Dansaekhwa\n\nDansaekhwa (), also known as \"Tansaekhwa\" refers to a loose grouping of paintings that emerged in Korean painting starting in the mid-1970s, when a group of artists began to push paint, soak canvas, drag pencils, rip paper, and otherwise manipulate the materials of painting. Tansaekhwa means ‘monochrome painting’ in Korean and was used by the critic Lee Yil in 1980 to refer to a group of largely non-figurative paintings painted in neutral hues. Promoted in Seoul, Tokyo, and Paris, Tansaekhwa grew to be the international face of contemporary Korean art and a cornerstone of contemporary Asian art.\n\nFigures associated with Tansaekhwa include: Cho Yong-ik, Chung Chang-Sup, Chung Sang-Hwa, Ha Chonghyun, Heu Hwang, Kim Guiline, Kwon Young-woo, Lee \nDong Youb, Lee Ufan, Park Seobo, Suh Seung-Wong, and Yun Hyong-keun.\n\nLee Ufan had moved to Japan in 1956, where he established himself with the Mono-ha movement in the late 1960s. In the mid-1970s he introduced his Korean peers to the Tokyo art scene. “Five Korean Artists, Five Kinds of White,” a group show held at Tokyo Gallery in May 1975, is often credited as the first major presentation of the works that later became known as Tansaekhwa. The five featured artists were Kwon Young-woo, Lee Dong Youb, Heu Hwang, Suh Seung-won and Park Seobo.\n\nIn 2013, the first extended scholarly discussion of Tansaekhwa, written by Joan Kee, was published by the University of Minnesota Press. It was a finalist for the annual College Art Association Charles Rufus Morey Prize for the most distinguished book in the history of art, the first book on any aspect of modern and contemporary Asian art to receive this designation. Starting in 2014, a spate of survey shows in Korea and the United States triggered renewed critical and commercial interest in Dansaekhwa.\n\n\nSince the first of these surveys took place, there have been several solo exhibitions of individual artists:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58637619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58637619", "title": "Deportation of Afghan refugees from the United States", "text": "Deportation of Afghan refugees from the United States\n\nDeportation of Afghan refugees from the United States refers to the refoulment of Afghan refugees with no criminal conviction and the involuntary removal of Afghan-Americans who have been convicted of a common crime in the United States. Some of these individuals in removal proceedings were admitted to the United States in the 1980s with their refugee family members after escaping from genocide and persecution, and have continuously spent decades as legal immigrants (potential U.S. nationals).\n\nAccording to the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), the Afghan-Americans did not enter the United States with immigrant visas as lawful permanent residents but rather with special travel documents as refugees. As such, they have been immunized against deportation from the United States since 1980 when the U.S. Congress enacted INA §§ 207 and 209, 8 U.S.C. §§ 1157 and 1159. This legal finding is supported by latest precedents of all the U.S. courts of appeals and the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA), which are binding on all immigration judges and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officers.\n\nAn Afghan-American in deportation proceedings has been reported in 1945. The immigration officials suspended (cancelled) his deportation, which allowed him to remain in the United States with his American family.\n\nAfghanistan began to experience a great turmoil in the 1970s, which resulted in a mass exodus of its citizens, who were first admitted to neighboring Pakistan and Iran as refugees escaping from: (1) genocide that was orchestrated by the communist People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA); and (2) political repression of the mujahideen, who were engaged in a guerrilla warfare with the PDPA. Iran and Pakistan have never provided citizenship or permanent residency to these Afghan refugees.\n\nIn 1980, the U.S. Congress and the Carter administration enacted the Refugee Act, which approved 50,000 international refugees to be resettled in the United States each year. Before enacting the Refugee Act, Congress was well aware of the fact that these refugees are not priests and nuns but ordinary people prone to committing a crime just like Americans commit a crime in the United States.\n\nEach year, from 1980 onward, groups of Afghan refugee families lawfully entered the United States. These families were issued by the U.S. Department of State special travel documents. At least one such family entered with fraudulent documents and applied for asylum in the United States. After residing for at least one year in the United States, the then Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) adjusted their status to that of lawful permanent residents (green card holders). This process statutorily protected them from refoulment (forceful deportation) for lifetime.\n\nThese refugee families were distributed all across the United States. Most were \"firmly resettled\" in and around New York City, California, Northern Virginia, Florida, and Texas. In \"Landon v. Plasencia\", 459 U.S. 21, 32 (1982), the U.S. Supreme Court reminded the U.S. Attorney General that \"once an alien gains admission to our country and begins to develop the ties that go with permanent residence, his constitutional status changes accordingly.\" That opinion was issued after Congress and the Reagan administration \"firmly resettled\" in the United States refugees from various countries.\n\nThe INA historically stated that \"[t]he term 'alien' means any person not a citizen or national of the United States.\" The terms \"inadmissible aliens\" and \"deportable aliens\" are synonymous. If an Afghan-American is not inadmissible to the United States then he or she is plainly and unambiguously not removable from the United States. Anything to the contrary will make deportation from the United States a paid international vacation for him or her and a \"cruel and unusual punishment\" for others. For example, some deportees could successfully make the U.S. government pay them hundreds of thousands (or possibly millions) of dollars while others could end up committing suicide.\n\nIn this regard, INA § 207(c), 8 U.S.C. § 1157(c), expressly provides the following:\n\nINA § 209, 8 U.S.C. § 1159, provides the following:\n\nIn addition to the above provisions, INA § 212(h), 8 U.S.C. § 1182(h), provides the following:\n\nThe above legal finding \"is consistent with one of the most basic interpretive canons, that a statute should be construed so that effect is given to all its provisions, so that no part will be inoperative or superfluous, void or insignificant.\" Congress clearly treated refugees (i.e., established victims of persecution who have absolutely no safe country) differently than all other aliens (who do have a safe country and are not victims of persecution). There is nothing ambiguous in the plain language of § 1157(c)(3), 1159(c), or 1182(h). If Congress wanted to treat refugees the same as all other aliens, it would have repealed §§ 1157(c)(3) and 1159(c) instead of amending them in 1996 and then in 2005. This clearly demonstrates that it intentionally made available a statutory and mandatory legal remedy to refugees. Under the well known \"Chevron\" doctrine, \"[i]f the intent of Congress is clear, that is the end of the matter, for the court as well as the [Attorney General] must give effect to the unambiguously expressed intent of Congress.\"\n\nIt is also crucial to take notice that the penultimate sentence of § 1182(h), where it repeatedly mentions the phrase \"under this subsection\", obviously does not apply to any Afghan-American requesting relief under §§ 1157(c)(3) and 1159(c), or under the United Nations Convention against Torture (CAT). In other words, that commanding concluding statement of § 1182(h) only applies to aliens who were admitted to the United States as lawful permanent residents in accordance with Form I-130, Form I-140, Diversity Immigrant Visa, Special Immigrant Visa, etc. The Afghan-Americans who were admitted as refugees in the 1980s are still refugees under the law because (1) they continue to be victims of persecution, which was orchestrated by former Attorney General John Ashcroft in 2002; and (2) they have absolutely no safe country. This means that any such Afghan-American who has been convicted of any offense mentioned in § 1101(a)(43)(A) is not (and has never been) precluded from relief under §§ 1157(c)(3) and 1159(c) or the CAT. It has long been understood in the United States that whenever \"Congress includes particular language in one section of a statute but omits it in another section of the same Act, it is generally presumed that Congress acts intentionally and purposely in the disparate inclusion or exclusion.\"\n\nThe above provisions are in clear harmony with each other and the overall law of the United States, including with international law. Secondly, providing relief under §§ 1157(c)(3) and 1159(c) or the CAT is not discretionary but statutory and mandatory, and the above provisions all involve \"legal claims\" (i.e., constitutional claims or questions of law). As such, federal judges are fully empowered to review these \"legal claims\" at any time, especially in a case involving exceptional circumstances. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit recently reaffirmed this by stating the following:\n\nIn 1986, less than a year before the CAT became effective, Congress expressly and intentionally expanded the definition of \"nationals but not citizens of the United States\" by adding paragraph (4) to 8 U.S.C. § 1408, which reads as follows:\n\nThe natural reading of § 1408(4) demonstrates that it was not exclusively written for the 55,000 American Samoans but also for Afghan-Americans who statutorily and manifestly qualify as \"nationals but not citizens of the United States.\" This means that any Afghan-American who can show by a preponderance of the evidence that he or she meets (or at any time has met) the requirements of 8 U.S.C. §§ 1408(4) and 1436 is plainly and unambiguously a \"national but not a citizen of the United States.\" Such person must never be labelled or treated as an alien, especially after demonstrating that he or she has continuously resided in the United States for at least 10 years without committing any offense that triggers removability. \"Deprivation of [nationality]—particularly American [nationality], which is one of the most valuable rights in the world today—has grave practical consequences.\"\n\nIn 1988, Congress introduced the term \"aggravated felony\" by defining it under 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a). The definition of the term gradually expanded over the years, and applies (for U.S. citizenship purposes) to offenses that were committed at any time in the past. In February 1995, U.S. President Bill Clinton issued a directive in which he expressly stated the following: \n\nIn 1997, President Clinton signed into law the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA), which is particularly aimed at combating illegal immigration to the United States. But despite what President Clinton said in the above directive, some plainly incompetent immigration officers began arresting and deporting long-settled legal immigrants (i.e., potential Americans). Unlike other aliens, legal immigrants have permanent resident cards, Social Security numbers, driver's licenses, state ID cards, bank accounts, credit cards, insurances, etc. They own homes, businesses, cars and other properties in the United States under their names. Such immigrants statutorily qualify as \"nationals of the United States\" after continuously residing in the United States for at least 10 years without committing any offense that triggers removability. This appears to be the reason why the permanent resident card (green card) is valid for 10 years. It was expected that all Afghan refugees in the United States would obtain U.S. citizenship within 10 years from the date of their first lawful entry, but if that was unachievable then they would statutorily become \"nationals but not citizens of the United States\" after such 10 years elapse. Anything to the contrary will result in \"deprivation of rights under color of law,\" which is a federal crime that entails capital punishment for the perpetrator(s).\n\nThe Afghan-Americans in removal proceedings have already \"been lawfully accorded the privilege of residing permanently in the United States\" by the Attorney General, but decades later the same Attorney General unconstitutionally turned these \"firmly resettled\" Americans into refugees again. Unlike other aliens in removal proceedings, these refugees have no safe country and they obviously owe permanent allegiance solely to the government of the United States. They have never pledged any kind of allegiance to the communist PDPA government, which dissolved in April 1992, nor to the Taliban or the other Afghan governments. This makes them nothing but a distinct class of persecuted Americans. The ones who cannot become U.S. citizens are statutorily allowed by Congress to live in the United States with their American families for the rest of their life. Deporting such Americans is not only plainly wrong in the eyes of the public but also plainly unconstitutional and a grave international crime. Not only Americans but the whole world sees that there is nothing but death and a grave waiting for Afghan refugees returning to Afghanistan, which is nothing but an international war zone controlled by the United States.\n\n\"Only aliens are subject to removal.\" As mentioned above, the terms \"inadmissible aliens\" and \"deportable aliens\" are synonymous. It is common knowledge that these aliens mainly refer to the INA violators among the 75 million foreign nationals who are admitted each year as visitors, the 12 million or so illegal aliens, and the INA violators among the 400,000 foreign nationals who possess the temporary protected status (TPS). A lawful permanent resident can either be an \"alien\" or a \"national of the United States,\" which requires a case-by-case analysis and depends mainly on the number of continuous years he or she has spent in the United States as a green card holder. The INA makes clear that any such person who at any time has been convicted of any aggravated felony, whether the aggravated felony was committed inside or outside the United States, is \"debarred from becoming a citizen of the United States.\" However, unlike a \"national but not a citizen of the United States,\" any alien who has committed (and got convicted of) any aggravated felony after April 1, 1997, is statutorily removable from the country as an aggravated felon. Such alien cannot:\n\nAn \"order of deportation\" may be reviewed at any time by any immigration judge or any BIA member and finally by any authorized federal judge. Particular cases, especially those that were adjudicated in any U.S. district court prior to the enactment of the Real ID Act of 2005, can be reopened under Rule 60 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The review of the order does not require the alien (or the American) to remain in the United States. It can be requested from anywhere in the world \"via\" mail (e.g., DHL, FedEx, UPS, etc.) and/or electronic court filing (ECF), and the case can be filed in any court the alien (or American) finds appropriate.\n\nEvery illegal deportation claim, United States nationality claim, and CAT or asylum claim is adjudicated under 8 U.S.C. §§ 1252(a)(4), 1252(b)(4), 1252(b)(5), and 1252(f)(2). When these specific provisions are invoked, all other contrary provisions of law, especially § 1252(b)(1) and \"Stone v. INS\", 514 U.S. 386, 405 (1995) (case obviously decided prior to IIRIRA of 1996, which materially changed the old \"judicial review provisions of the INA\"), must be disregarded because the above three claims manifestly constitute exceptional circumstances. The Supreme Court has pointed out in 2009 that \"the context surrounding IIRIRA's enactment suggests that § 1252(f)(2) was an important—not a superfluous—statutory provision.\" In this regard, Congress has long said the following:\n\nAccording to § 1252(f)(1), \"no court (other than the Supreme Court)\" is authorized to determine which two or more people in removal proceedings should be recognized as nationals of the United States (Americans). This includes a father and a son or relatives. The remaining courts, however, are fully empowered pursuant to §§ 1252(b)(5) and 1252(f)(2) to, \"inter alia\", issue an injunction to terminate any Afghan-American's removal proceedings; return a wrongfully removed Afghan-American to the United States; and/or to confer United States nationality upon any Afghan-American (but only using a case-by-case analysis). In addition to that, under , any officer mentioned in may at any time move to terminate the case of any Afghan-American who turns out to be a national of the United States or one who is simply not removable under the INA.\n\nIn spite of being eligible for relief under, \"inter alia\", 8 U.S.C. §§ 1157(c)(3), 1159(c), and 1182(h), and Afghanistan and the United States having absolutely no repatriation agreement, approximately 378 Afghan-Americans have been physically removed from the United States between November 2002 and January 2016. At least 225 had no criminal conviction. These individuals were probably failed asylum seekers who did not possess any legal status in the United States or simply wrongfully deported. \"Recent data suggests that in 2010 well over 4,000 U.S. citizens were detained or deported as aliens[.]\"\n\nAmong the remaining 153 Afghan-Americans, one appears to have been convicted of homicide, another of negligent homicide (involuntary manslaughter or vehicular homicide), and the remaining were convicted of assault and other common crimes, including driving under the influence (DUI), shoplifting, and traffic offenses. A couple of them violated a firearm law but an Afghan-American convicted of such an offense should never be deported unless the government wants to provide to him or her a paid international vacation. Congress clarified this in 1996 and it was perfectly settled by the BIA in a March 2000 \"en banc\" decision, which has since been binding on all immigration judges and DHS officers. It is, therefore, a clearly established law for qualified immunity purposes. Deportation of Afghan-Americans steadily declined over the years, from \"77\" in 2003 to only \"17\" in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49968046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49968046", "title": "Dominican people in Italy", "text": "Dominican people in Italy\n\nThe presence of Dominicans in Italy dates back after 1990s and most of them were married to Italian citizens.\n\nIn 2014 in Italy there are 28,804 regular immigrants from Dominican Republic. In 2006 there were 17,892. The three cities with most number of Dominicans are: La Spezia, Rome and Milan.\n\n"}
{"id": "3683356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3683356", "title": "Ethan Zuckerman", "text": "Ethan Zuckerman\n\nEthan Zuckerman (born 1973) is an American media scholar, blogger, and Internet activist. He is the director of the MIT Center for Civic Media, Associate Professor of the Practice in Media Arts and Sciences at MIT and the author of the book \",\" which won the Zócalo Book Prize.\n\nZuckerman is a graduate of Williams College, where he received a B.A. in Philosophy in 1993. He then spent a year on a Fulbright scholarship at the University of Legon, Ghana and the National Theatre of Ghana in Accra, where he studied ethnomusicology and percussion.\n\nZuckerman was one of the first staff members of Tripod.com, one of the first successful \"dot com\" enterprises, where he worked from 1994 to 1999. There, he was in charge of the design and the implementation of the website which, at that time, marketed content and services to recent college graduates. The business model of this website was exclusively based on advertising. After one of the website's major advertisers complained that one of their banner advertisements had appeared on a page that celebrated anal sex, Zuckerman imagined a way to associate an ad with a user’s page without putting it directly on the page. His solution was to open a new dedicated window with only the ad in it. The popup ad was born. While he claims having only written the code to open a new window, since then, he is considered as the inventor of the pop-up ad.\n\nIn 2000, he founded Geekcorps and 2004, Global Voices Online.\n\nHe won the MIT Technology Review \"Technology in the Service of Humanity\" award in 2002 for his work on Geekcorps. Ethan has been a senior researcher at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society, where he is also a long-time fellow. His work at the Berkman Center has included research into global media attention, as well as the co-founding of Global Voices in collaboration with Rebecca MacKinnon. For some years he was also a contributing writer for Worldchanging.com, where he served as president of the board of directors.\n\nIn January 2007, he joined the inaugural Wikimedia Foundation Advisory Board.\n\nIn 2008, he coined the cute cat theory of digital activism.\n\nIn 2011, he was named by \"Foreign Policy\" magazine to its list of top global thinkers, in which he stated the \"Best idea\" is \"The world isn't flat and globalization is only beginning, which means we have time to change what we're doing and get it right\". Also in September of that year, he became the director of the MIT Center for Civic Media.\n\nZuckerman is an Open Society Global Board member, and also sits on the board of directors of Ushahidi, Global Voices, and the Ghanaian journalism training nonprofit, PenPlusBytes.\n\nHe was interviewed in the 2015 web documentary about internet privacy, \"Do Not Track\".\n\nOn July 1, 2016, Zuckerman was appointed Associate Professor of the Practice in Media Arts and Sciences at MIT.\n\nZuckerman resides in Lanesborough, Massachusetts, and has a son with Rachel Barenblat.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2355918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2355918", "title": "Ethnobiology", "text": "Ethnobiology\n\n]\n\nEthnobiology is the scientific study of the way living things are treated or used by different human cultures. It studies the dynamic relationships between people, biota, and environments, from the distant past to the immediate present.\n\n\"People-biota-environment\" interactions around the world are documented and studied through time, across cultures, and across disciplines in a search for valid, reliable answers to two 'defining' questions: \"How and in what ways do human societies use nature, and how and in what ways do human societies view nature?\"\n\nBiologists have been interested in local biological knowledge since the time Europeans started colonising the world, from the 15th century onwards. Paul Sillitoe wrote that:\n\nLocal biological knowledge, collected and sampled over these early centuries significantly informed the early development of modern biology:\n\nEthnobiology itself, as a distinctive practice, only emerged during the 20th century as part of the records then being made about other peoples, and other cultures. As a practice, it was nearly always ancillary to other pursuits when documenting others' languages, folklore, and natural resource use. Roy Ellen commented that:\n\nThis 'first phase' in the development of ethnobiology as a practice has been described as still having an essentially utilitarian purpose, often focusing on identifying those 'native' plants, animals and technologies of some potential use and value within increasingly dominant western economic systems\n\nArising out of practices in Phase I (above) came a 'second phase' in the development of 'ethnobiology', with researchers now striving to better document and better understand how other peoples' themselves \"conceptualize and categorize\" the natural world around them. In Sillitoe's words:\n\nThis 'second' phase is marked:\n\nBy the turn of the 21st century ethnobiological practices, research, and findings have had a significant impact and influence across a number of fields of biological inquiry including ecology, conservation biology, development studies, and political ecology.\n\nThe Society of Ethnobiology advises on its web page:\nEthnobiology is a rapidly growing field of research, gaining professional, student, and public interest .. internationally\nEthnobiology has come out from its place as an ancillary practice in the shadows of other core pursuits, to arise as a whole field of inquiry and research in its own right: taught within many tertiary institutions and educational programs around the world; with its own methods manuals, its own readers, and its own textbooks\n\nAll societies make use of the biological world in which they are situated, but there are wide differences in use, informed by perceived need, available technology, and the culture's sense of morality and sustainability. Ethnobiologists investigate what lifeforms are used for what purposes, the particular techniques of use, the reasons for these choices, and symbolic and spiritual implications of them.\n\nDifferent societies divide the living world up in different ways. Ethnobiologists attempt to record the words used in particular cultures for living things, from the most specific terms (analogous to species names in Linnean biology) to more general terms (such as 'tree' and even more generally 'plant'). They also try to understand the overall structure or hierarchy of the classification system (if there is one; there is ongoing debate as to whether there must always be an implied hierarchy.\n\nSocieties invest themselves and their world with meaning partly through their answers to questions like \"how did the world happen?\", \"how and why did people come to be?\", \"what are proper practices, and why?\", and \"what realities exist beyond or behind our physical experience?\" Understanding these elements of a societies' perspective is important to cultural research in general, and ethnobiologists investigate how a societies' view of the natural world informs and is informed by them.\n\nIn order to live effectively in a given place, a people needs to understand the particulars of their environment, and many traditional societies have complex and subtle understandings of the places in which they live. Ethnobiologists seek to share in these understandings, subject to ethical concerns regarding intellectual property and cultural appropriation.\n\nIn cross cultural ethnobiology research, two or more communities participate simultaneously. This enables the researcher to compare how a bio-resource is used by different communities.\n\nStudies and writings within ethnobiology draw upon research from fields including archaeology, geography, linguistics, systematics, population biology, ecology, cultural anthropology, ethnography, pharmacology, nutrition, conservation, and sustainable development.\n\nThrough much of the history of ethnobiology, its practitioners were primarily from dominant cultures, and the benefit of their work often accrued to the dominant culture, with little control or benefit invested in the indigenous peoples whose practice and knowledge they recorded.\n\nJust as many of those indigenous societies work to assert legitimate control over physical resources such as traditional lands or artistic and ritual objects, many work to assert legitimate control over their intellectual property.\n\nIn an age when the potential exists for large profits from the discovery of, for example, new food crops or medicinal plants, modern ethnobiologists must consider intellectual property rights, the need for informed consent, the potential for harm to informants, and their \"debt to the societies in which they work\".\n\nFurthermore, these questions must be considered not only in light of western industrialized nations' common understanding of ethics and law, but also in light of the ethical and legal standards of the societies from which the ethnobiologist draws information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2909609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2909609", "title": "Forest-fire model", "text": "Forest-fire model\n\nIn applied mathematics, a forest-fire model is any of a number of dynamical systems displaying self-organized criticality. Note, however, that according to Pruessner et al. (2002, 2004) the forest-fire model does not behave critically on very large, i.e. physically relevant scales. Early versions go back to Henley (1989) and Drossel and Schwabl (1992). The model is defined as a cellular automaton on a grid with \"L\" cells. \"L\" is the sidelength of the grid and \"d\" is its dimension. A cell can be empty, occupied by a tree, or burning. The model of Drossel and Schwabl (1992) is defined by four rules which are executed simultaneously:\n\n\nThe controlling parameter of the model is \"p\"/\"f\" which gives the average number of trees planted between two lightning strikes (see Schenk et al. (1996) and Grassberger (1993)). In order to exhibit a fractal frequency-size distribution of clusters a double separation of time scales is necessary\n\nwhere \"T\" is the burn time of the largest cluster. The scaling behavior is not simple, however (Grassberger 1993,2002 and Pruessner et al. 2002,2004). \n\nA cluster is defined as a coherent set of cells, all of which have the same state. Cells are coherent if they can reach each other via nearest neighbor relations. In most cases, the von Neumann neighborhood (four adjacent cells) is considered.\n\nThe first condition formula_2 allows large structures to develop, while the second condition formula_3 keeps trees from popping up alongside a cluster while burning.\n\nIn landscape ecology, the forest fire model is used to illustrate the role of the fuel mosaic in the wildfire regime. The importance of the fuel mosaic on wildfire spread is debated. Parsimonious models such as the forest fire model can help to explore the role of the fuel mosaic and its limitations in explaining observed patterns.\n\n"}
{"id": "14194836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14194836", "title": "Four occupations", "text": "Four occupations\n\nThe four occupations () or \"four categories of the people\" () was an occupation classification used in ancient China by either Confucian or Legalist scholars as far back as the late Zhou dynasty and is considered a central part of the fengjian social structure (c. 1046–256 BC). These were the \"shi\" (gentry scholars), the \"nong\" (peasant farmers), the \"gong\" (artisans and craftsmen), and the \"shang\" (merchants and traders).\nThe four occupations were not always arranged in this order. The four categories were not socioeconomic classes; wealth and standing did not correspond to these categories, nor were they hereditary.\n\nThe system did not factor in all social groups present in premodern Chinese society, and its broad categories were more an idealization than a practical reality. The commercialization of Chinese society in the Song and Ming periods further blurred the lines between these four occupations. The definition of the identity of the \"shi\" class changed over time—from warriors, to aristocratic scholars, and finally to scholar-bureaucrats. There was also a gradual fusion of the wealthy merchant and landholding gentry classes, culminating in the late Ming Dynasty. \n\nIn some manner this system of social order was adopted throughout the Chinese cultural sphere. In Japanese it is called \"mibunsei\" (身分制) and is sometimes stated as , although in Japan it became a hereditary caste system. In Korean as \"Sa, nong, gong, sang\" (사농공상), and in Vietnamese as \"Sĩ, nông, công, thương (士農工商). The main difference in adaptation was the definition of the \"shi\" (士).\n\nFrom existing literary evidence, commoner categories in China were employed for the first time during the Warring States period (403–221 BC). Despite this, Eastern-Han (AD 25–220) historian Ban Gu (AD 32–92) asserted in his \"Book of Han\" that the four occupations for commoners had existed in the Western Zhou (c. 1050 – 771 BC) era, which he considered a golden age. However, it is now known that the classification of four occupations as Ban Gu understood it did not exist until the 2nd century BC. Ban explained the social hierarchy of each group in descending order:\n\nScholars, farmers, artisans, and merchants; each of the four peoples had their respective profession. Those who studied in order to occupy positions of rank were called the \"shi\" (scholars). Those who cultivated the soil and propagated grains were called \"nong\" (farmers). Those who manifested skill (\"qiao\") and made utensils were called \"gong\" (artisans). Those who transported valuable articles and sold commodities were called \"shang\" (merchants).\n\nThe Han-era text \"Guliang Zhuan\" described the four groups in a different order, with merchants second after scholars, and the Warring States-era \"Xunzi\" placed farmers before scholars. The \"Shuo Yuan\" mentioned a quotation which stressed the ideal of equality for the four occupations. Under these schemes, multiple dynasties attempted to create a hereditary military caste by exchanging border farmland or other privileges for service. However, in every instance, the policy would fail due to rampant desertion caused by the extremely low regard for violent occupations, and subsequently these armies had to replaced with hired mercenaries or even peasant militia. \nHowever, for those without formal education, the quickest way to power and the upper echelons of society was to join the military. Although the soldier was looked upon with a bit of disdain by scholar-officials and cultured people, military officers with successful careers could gain a considerable amount of prestige. Despite the claim of moral high ground, scholar-officials often commanded troops and wielded military power.\n\nEntertaining was considered to be of little use to society and was usually performed by the underclass known as the \"mean people\" ().\n\nEntertainers and courtiers were often dependents upon the wealthy or were associated with the often-perceived immoral pleasure grounds of urban entertainment districts. Musicians who played music as full-time work were of low status. To give them official recognition would have given them more prestige.\n\n\"Proper\" music was considered a fundamental aspect of nurturing of character and good government, but vernacular music, as defined as having \"irregular movements\" was criticised as corrupting for listeners. In spite of this, Chinese society idolized many musicians, even women musicians (who were seen as seductive) such as Cai Yan (ca. 177) and Wang Zhaojun (40-30 B.C). Musical abilities were a prime consideration in marriage desirability. During the Ming dynasty, female musicians were so common that they even played for imperial rituals.\n\nPrivate theatre troupes in the homes of wealthy families were a common practice.\nProfessional dancers of the period were of low social status and many entered the profession through poverty, although some such as Zhao Feiyan achieved higher status by becoming concubines. Another dancer was Wang Wengxu () who was forced to become a domestic singer-dancer but who later bore the future Emperor Xuan of Han.\nInstitutions were set up to oversee the training and performances of music and dances in the imperial court, such as the Great Music Bureau (太樂署) and the Drums and Pipes Bureau (鼓吹署) responsible for ceremonial music. Emperor Gaozu set up the Royal Academy, while Emperor Xuanzong established the Pear Garden Academy for the training of musicians, dancers and actors. There were around 30,000 musicians and dancers at the imperial court during the reign of Emperor Xuanzong, with most specialising in \"yanyue\". All were under the administration of the Drums and Pipes Bureau and an umbrella organization called the Taichang Temple (太常寺).\n\nProfessional artists had similarly low status.\n\nSlavery was comparatively uncommon in Chinese history but was still practiced, largely as a judicial punishment for crimes. In the Han and Tang dynasties, it was illegal to trade in Chinese slaves (that were not criminals), but foreign slaves were acceptable. The Xin dynasty emperor Wang Mang, the Ming dynasty Hongwu emperor, and Qing dynasty Yongzheng emperor attempted to ban slavery entirely but were not successful. Illegal enslavement of children frequently occurred under the guise of adoption from poor families. It has been speculated by researchers such as Sue Gronewold that up to 80% of late Qing era prostitutes may have been slaves.\n\nSix dynasties, Tang dynasty, and to a partial extent Song dynasty society also contained a complex system of servile groups included under \"mean people\" (賤人) that formed intermediate standings between the four occupations and outright slavery. These were, in descending order:\nAnd in private service,\nThese performed a wide assortment of jobs in households, in agriculture, delivering messages or as private guards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3798799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3798799", "title": "Gallowglass", "text": "Gallowglass\n\nThe gallowglasses (also spelt galloglass, gallowglas or galloglas; from meaning foreign warriors) were a class of elite mercenary warriors who were principally members of the Norse-Gaelic clans of Scotland between the mid 13th century and late 16th century. As Scots, they were Gaels and shared a common background and language with the Irish, but as they were descendants of 10th century Norse settlers who had intermarried with the local population in western Scotland, the Irish called them \"Gall Gaeil\" (\"foreign Gaels\").\n\nLarge numbers of gallowglass septs settled in Ireland after being dispossessed of their lands in Scotland for choosing to fight on the side for independence from England in the Wars of Scottish Independence. An early family of gallowglasses were the MacSweeneys, settled by the O'Donnells in north Donegal. These were followed by MacDonnells, MacCabes and several other groups settled by powerful Irish nobles in different areas. The gallowglasses were attractive as a heavily armoured, trained aristocratic infantry to be relied upon as a strong defence for holding a position, unlike most Irish foot soldiers, who were lower class and less well armoured than the typical Irish noble who fought as cavalry. In time there came to be many native Irish gallowglasses as the term came to mean a type of warrior rather than an ethnic designation.\n\nThey were a significant part of Irish infantry before the advent of gunpowder, and depended upon seasonal service with Irish chieftains. A military leader would often choose a gallowglass to serve as his personal aide and bodyguard because, as a foreigner, the gallowglass would be less subject to local feuds and influences.\n\nThe term is an anglicisation of the Irish \"gallóglaigh\" (lit. \"foreign young warriors\"), with the English plural \"-s\" added to the end. The singular of \"gallóglaigh\" is \"gallóglach\". The word \"óglach\" comes from Old Irish \"oac\" (meaning \"youth\") and Old Irish \"lóeg\" (meaning \"calf\" but later becoming a word for a hero). Although the English term comes from an Irish plural, Encarta specifies the plural of gallowglass to be \"gallowglasses\". Shakespeare uses the form \"gallowglasses\" in the play \"Macbeth\". \n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" prefers the spelling \"galloglass\" and provides several examples attesting to ordinary English plural forms of the word, dating back to a c. 1515 use of \"galloglasseis\". \"The etymologically correct form galloglagh appears later than the erroneous galloglass, which was probably the result of the plural gallogla(gh)s; in some early instances galloglas seems to be used as a plural, but galloglasses is found already in our earliest quot.\" \n\nThe gallowglass were from the western coast of Scotland, principally Argyll and the Western Isles. Their weapon of choice was a battle axe. Each was usually accompanied by a man to see to his weapons and armour and a boy to carry provisions.\n\nA description from 1600, speaks of the Gallowglass as \"...pycked and scelected men of great and mightie bodies, crewell without compassion. The greatest force of the battell consisteth in them, chosing rather to dye than to yeelde, so that when yt cometh to handy blowes they are quickly slayne or win the fielde.\"\n\nThe first record of gallowglass service was in 1259, when Aedh Ó Conchobair, King of Connacht, received a dowry of 160 Scottish warriors from the daughter of Dubhghall mac Ruaidhri, the King of the Hebrides. They were organised into groups known as a \"Corrughadh\", which consisted of about 100 men. \n\nThe importation of gallowglasses into Ireland was a major factor in containing the Anglo-Norman invasion of the 12th century, as their ranks stiffened the resistance of the Irish lordships. Throughout the Middle Ages in Ireland, gallowglass troops were maintained by Gaelic Irish and Hiberno-Norman lords alike. Even the English Lord Deputy of Ireland usually kept a company of them in his service. (\"See also: Norman Ireland\".)\n\nIn return for military service, gallowglass contingents were given land and settled in Irish lordships, where they were entitled to receive supplies from the local population.\n\nBy 1512, there were reported to be fifty-nine groups throughout the country under the control of the Irish nobility. Though initially they were mercenaries, over time they settled and their ranks became filled with both Scots-Norse and many native Irish men.\n\nIn 1569, Turlough Luineach O'Neill (\"The O'Neill\") married Lady Agnes Campbell, daughter of Colin Campbell, 3rd Earl of Argyll, and widow of James MacDonald, 6th of Dunnyveg. Her dowry consisted of at least 1,200 gallowglass fighters. Along with two young men as support and friends on top to assist or fight this could easily have numbered over 5,000 current and future gallowglasses coming into the area.\n\nThey were noted for wielding the massive two-handed sparth axe (a custom noted by Geraldus Cambrensis, died c. 1223, to have derived from their Norse heritage) and broadsword or claymore (\"claidheamh mór\"). For armour, the gallowglass wore a mail shirt over a padded jacket and an iron helmet; he was usually accompanied by two boys (like a knight's squires), one of whom carried his throwing spears while the other carried his provisions.\n\nShakespeare mentions gallowglasses in his play \"Macbeth\", although along with other aspects of the play it is an anachronism, as the historical Macbeth lived in the 11th century:\n\n<poem>\nThe merciless Macdonwald,\nWorthy to be a rebel, for to that\nThe multiplying villainies of nature\nDo swarm upon him, from the Western isles\nOf kerns and gallowglasses is supplied\n</poem>\n\nIn a paper entitled \"A Description of the Power of Irishmen\", written early in the 16th century, the Irish forces of Leinster are numbered at 522 horse, five battalions of gallowglass (gallóglaigh) and 1,432 kerne, and those of the other provinces were in like proportion. Mac Cárthaigh Mór commanded 40 horse, two battalions of gallowglass, and 2,000 kerne; the Earl of Desmond 400 horse, three battalions of gallowglass, and 3,000 kerne, besides a battalion of crossbowmen and gunners, the smaller chieftains supplying each their quota of men.\n\nIn 1517, \"when the reformacion of the countrye was taken in hand\", it was reported that the Irish forces in Thomond were 750 horse, 2,324 kerne, and six \"batayles\" of gallowglass, the latter including 60 to 80 footmen harnessed with spears; each of these had a man to bear his harness, some of whom themselves carried spears or bows.\n\nEvery kerne had a bow, a \"skieve\" or quiver, three spears, a sword, and a skene (Irish \"scian\" or Scottish Gaelic \"sgian\"), each two of them having a lad to carry their weapons. The horsemen had two horses apiece, some three, the second bearing the \"knave\" or his attendant.\n\nThe 16th century in Ireland saw an escalation in military conflict, caused by the Tudor conquest of Ireland. Gallowglass fighters were joined by native Irish mercenaries called \"buanadha\" (literally \"quartered men\") and by newer Scottish mercenaries known as \"redshanks\". The flow of mercenaries into Ireland was such a threat to English occupation that Queen Elizabeth I took steps against them in 1571—around 700 of them were executed after the first of the Desmond Rebellions.\n\nDespite the increased use of firearms in Irish warfare, gallowglasses remained an important part of Hugh Ó Neill's forces in the Nine Years War. After the combined Irish defeat at the Battle of Kinsale in 1601, recruitment of gallowglasses waned, although Scottish Highland mercenaries continued to come to Ireland until the 1640s (notably Alasdair Mac Colla). They fought under the Irish general Eoin Roe O'Neill at the Battle of Benburb when O'Neill had an overwhelming victory in 1646. The gallowglasses of the Mac Cárthaigh Riabhaigh are recorded as having attacked Mallow in County Cork as late as 1645.\n\nImages of gallowglasses fighting as mercenaries in European mainland armies were sketched by Dürer in 1521 and later by French and Dutch artists. Gallowglasses served in the Dutch Blue Guards, Swiss Guard, the French Scottish Guard, and the forces of King Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden in his invasion of Livonia during the Thirty Years War.\n\nMilford or Millford, historically called Ballynagalloglagh (from Irish: Baile na nGallóglach), is a small town and townland in County Donegal, Ireland. The Irish Baile na nGallóglach literally means \"town of the gallóglach\". A battle between the Irish (helped by gallóglaigh) and the English took place on a hill in the townland and this is where the name comes from.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12306064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12306064", "title": "Green-collar worker", "text": "Green-collar worker\n\nA green-collar worker is a worker who is employed in the environmental sectors of the economy. Environmental green-collar workers (or green jobs) satisfy the demand for green development. Generally, they implement environmentally conscious design, policy, and technology to improve conservation and sustainability. Formal environmental regulations as well as informal social expectations are pushing many firms to seek professionals with expertise with environmental, energy efficiency, and clean renewable energy issues. They often seek to make their output more sustainable, and thus more favorable to public opinion, governmental regulation, and the Earth's ecology.\n\nGreen collar workers include professionals such as conservation movement workers, environmental consultants, council environmental services/waste management/recycling managers/officers, environmental or biological systems engineers, green building architects, landscape architects, holistic passive solar building designers, solar energy and wind energy engineers and installers, nuclear engineers, green vehicle engineers, \"green business\" owners, green vehicle, organic farmers, environmental lawyers, ecology educators, and ecotechnology workers, and sales staff working with these services or products. Green collar workers also include vocational or trade-level workers: electricians who install solar panels, plumbers who install solar water heaters, recycling centre/MRF attendants, process managers and collectors, construction workers who build energy-efficient green buildings and wind power farms, construction workers who weatherize buildings to make them more energy efficient, or other workers involved in clean, renewable, sustainable future energy development.\n\nThere is a growing movement to incorporate social responsibility within the green industries. A sustainable green economy simultaneously values the importance of natural resources and inclusive, equitable, and healthy opportunities for all communities.\n\nIn the context of the current world economic crisis, many experts now argue that a massive push to develop renewable sources of energy could create millions of new jobs and help the economy recover while simultaneously improving the environment, increasing labour conditions in poor economies, and strengthening energy and food security.\n\nAl Gore states that economists across the spectrum — including Martin Feldstein and Lawrence Summers — agree that large and rapid investments in a jobs-intensive infrastructure initiative is the best way to revive the economy in a quick and sustainable way.\n\nA report from the Center for American Progress concludes that a $100 billion federal investment in clean energy technologies over 2009 and 2010 would yield 2 million new U.S. jobs, cutting the unemployment rate by 1.3% and put the nation on a path toward a low-carbon economy. The report, prepared by the Political Economy Research Institute at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, proposes $50 billion in tax credits for energy efficiency retrofits and renewable energy systems; $46 billion in direct government spending for public building retrofits, mass transit, freight rail, smart electrical grid systems, and renewable energy systems; and $4 billion for federal loan guarantees to help finance building retrofits and renewable energy projects. The Center believes that clean energy investments would yield about 300,000 more jobs than if the same funds were distributed among U.S. taxpayers. The clean energy investments would also have the added benefits of lower home energy bills and reduced prices for non-renewable energy sources, due to the reduced consumption of those energy sources.\n\nGlobal efforts to tackle climate change could result in millions of \"green\" jobs over the coming decades, according to a 2008 study prepared by the Worldwatch Institute with funding from the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). The study found that the global market for environmental products and services is projected to double from $1.37 trillion per year at present to $2.74 trillion by 2020, with half of that market in efficient energy use. In terms of energy supply, the renewable energy industry will be particularly important. Some 2.3 million people have found renewable energy jobs in recent years, and projected investments of $630 billion by 2030 would translate into at least 20 million additional jobs.\n\nAlso in 2008, the U.S. Conference of Mayors released a report that finds the U.S. economy currently generates more than 750,000 green jobs, while over the next 30 years, an emphasis on clean energy could result in a five-fold increase, to more than 4.2 million jobs. Engineering, legal, research, and consulting jobs currently dominate the green jobs in the United States and could grow by 1.4 million by 2038, while renewable electricity production will create 1.23 million jobs, alternative transportation fuels will add 1.5 million jobs, and building retrofits will create another 81,000 jobs. The report notes that most of today's jobs are in metropolitan areas, led by New York City; Washington, D.C.; Houston, Texas; and Los Angeles, California.\n\nThe Swedish utility Vattenfall did a study of full life cycle emissions of Nuclear, Hydro, Coal, Gas, Solar Cell, Peat and Wind which the utility uses to produce electricity. The net result of the study was that nuclear power produced 3.3 grams of carbon dioxide per KW-Hr of produced power. This compares to 400 for natural gas and 700 for coal (according to this study). The study also concluded that nuclear power produced the smallest amount of CO of any of their electricity sources.\n\nClaims exist that the problems of nuclear waste do not come anywhere close to approaching the problems of fossil fuel waste. A 2004 article from the BBC states: \"The World Health Organization (WHO) says 3 million people are killed worldwide by outdoor air pollution annually from vehicles and industrial emissions, and 1.6 million indoors through using solid fuel.\" In the U.S. alone, fossil fuel waste kills 20,000 people each year. A coal power plant releases 100 times as much radiation as a nuclear power plant of the same wattage. It is estimated that during 1982, US coal burning released 155 times as much radioactivity into the atmosphere as the Three Mile Island incident. In addition, fossil fuel waste causes global warming, which leads to increased deaths from hurricanes, flooding, and other weather events. The World Nuclear Association provides a comparison of deaths due to accidents among different forms of energy production. In their comparison, deaths per TW-yr of electricity produced from 1970 to 1992 are quoted as 885 for hydropower, 342 for coal, 85 for natural gas, and 8 for nuclear.\n\n\"Green collar\" is used in the Metal Gear franchise to refer to members of the arms industry, mercenaries, and other individuals in the private sector involved in war and military activity, notably for profit.\n\n\"Green collar\" is used in the Cannabis culture to refer to a person who finds acceptance or enjoyment of cannabis culture and cannabis products. The term is a play on the traditional uses of the terms \"white collar\" and \"blue collar,\" notably, to indicate that there is broad acceptance and enjoyment of cannabis culture that transcends socioeconomic stratifications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31464878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31464878", "title": "Guhu-Samane language", "text": "Guhu-Samane language\n\nGuhu-Samane, also known as \"Bia, Mid-Waria, Muri, Paiawa, Tahari\", is a divergent Trans–New Guinea language that is related to the Binanderean family in the classification of Malcolm Ross (2005).\n\nSmallhorn (2011:131) gives the following dialects.\nThe dialect differences are principally lexical, but two voiced obstruents also show regular variants. The coronal obstruent is realized as /dz/ upriver in Bapi and Garaina, /d/ downriver to Asama, and /j/ farther downriver in Papua. The voiced bilabial is realized as /b/ inland but as /w/ at the coast (Sinaba and Paiawa) (Handman 2015:102).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24905039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24905039", "title": "History Commons", "text": "History Commons\n\nThe History Commons is a web site and organization that documents events and issues of great social and political significance, focusing primarily on events and issues from the 1970s to the present day. The History Commons operates under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike license. It was originally sponsored by The Global Center, a 501(c)(3) organization, and is now operated by the Center for Grassroots Oversight, itself a 501(c)3 organization. The website was previously named Center for Cooperative Research, and was located at cooperativeresearch.org.\n\nAccording to the History Commons \"About\" page, the purpose of the website is: \"To provide a means for members of civil society to monitor the activities of powerful entities, such as governments, large corporations, and wealthy and influential individuals.\" And: \"The Web site is a tool for open-content participatory journalism. It allows people to investigate important issues by providing a space where people can collaborate on the documentation of past and current events, as well as the entities associated with those events. The Web site can be used to investigate topics at the local, regional, or global level. The data is displayed on the Web site in the form of dynamic timelines and entity profiles, and is exportable into XML so it can be shared with others for non-commercial purposes.\" However, the data export feature was non-functional as of April 2008 and has not been fixed since. A \"Conceptual Summary\" posted on the History Commons blog elaborates on this theme: \n\nThe History Commons is a free and open space where you can collaborate with others to chronicle history, monitor powerful private interests, and conduct oversight of governments. ... The History Commons ... is people-powered and people-driven, as opposed to being driven by powerful entities that represent a very narrow band of society. Contributors to HC work together to build an online documented version of the historical record. It is a socially and politically significant exercise because it has the potential to create a version of the historical narrative that is written by a wider swath of society, and therefore serves a broader scope of interests. It is a narrative that is less subject to control by the dominant sectors of society. Contributors participate for a variety of reasons. In most cases they are people who have an acute interest in politics and who have a perspective on history and current events that is in conflict with the narrative that is broadcast by powerful interests such as governments and the major media networks. They write because they want to create a written record of alternative narratives that checks the power of these interests. This is a key element of the History Commons' 'people-driven' nature, where the diverse contributions of its users make it possible to produce a record that transcends particular ideological and social agendas.\n\nTimelines are the main feature and research tool of the website: 32 timelines have been published as of June 2012, profiling more than 19,700 events and more than 18,000 entities, e.g. individuals, governments/agencies, businesses and organizations. Other timelines are in the planning and development stage. The term \"timeline,\" though accurate, is something of a misnomer. The content (dated summaries of events) is organized into chronological timelines, but the term \"project\" is somewhat more descriptive as many timelines/projects have a broad scope due to the complexity of the topic focus, and consist of multiple, subsidiary, cross-referenced timelines. The homepage of each project displays a table of contents, with links to subsidiary timelines and actual individual entries. The timelines are dynamic: By clicking on the title of an event summary, a \"scalable context timeline\" is produced, the scope of which can be narrowed or broadened depending on the proximity of other events or entities in relation to that particular event summary. Timelines can also be rendered by clicking on reference links or tags in an event summary, or by searching names, keywords or dates; this returns a timeline including the relevant event summaries. Each event summary cites at least one authoritative source, e.g. governments, organizations, mainstream media, scholars, investigative journalists and other recognized experts. All projects are works in progress; the goal is to provide the most current, comprehensive and detailed overview of each project's subject, and the related time periods, events and entities.\n\nProject content is written, edited, and posted by independent volunteer contributors who are responsible for their work. In July 2008, History Commons project manager Michael Tuck wrote in an article for Nieman Watchdog, \"Contributors own their content; the Commons provides a searchable information base where disparate material can be brought together in a single repository.\" Like Wikipedia, the History Commons is a database that the public can edit and add content to. Some important differences are that the ability to do so is limited to registered users, and that entries/edits go through an editorial peer-review process before being published. According to a History Commons \"Conceptual Summary\", \n\nThere are three steps to the review process. After an entry is submitted, it is reviewed for content to ensure that it is well-written and well-sourced. Sources are checked to ensure that what is in the entry accurately reflects the source material without resorting to plagiarism. An entry approved for content is then submitted for copyediting, using the HC style manual as a guide. If the event is rejected during the first step, it is sent back to the user, who reads over the comments and then resubmits the entry. If it is approved, another user, who is in charge of managing the user-defined timeline that the event was submitted to, then makes a decision whether or not the verified event should be added to the timeline. Each event is thoroughly reviewed for accuracy and proper grammar and spelling. \n\nThe \"Timelines\" page lists the projects that have been published; there are 32 as of June 2012. These include projects on the current global economic crisis, the US wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, US prisoner abuse and torture, the loss of US civil liberties, the September 11 attacks, domestic propaganda in America, global warming, US health care issues, US electoral politics, Kosovar Albanian self-determination, and many others.\n\nThe History Commons website was originally developed and operated by the now-defunct Center for Cooperative Research (CCR), which was founded in 2001 by Derek Mitchell, a California-based social entrepreneur. Along with software developer Michael Bevin, Mitchell helped develop the History Commons web application after it became apparent that a static HTML-based Web site was not enough to manage its rapidly expanding content. In June 2002, environmental activist Paul Thompson joined CCR, bringing with him a copious amount of research on the September 11 attacks. Thompson eventually used the material he contributed to the website for his 2004 book, The Terror Timeline. Due to the quality of the research, Thompson was invited by Rep. Cynthia McKinney to testify at a Congressional hearing on the failings and flaws of the 9/11 Commission report, and he did so in 2005. Mitchell, Thompson, and other researchers steadily expanded the website's projects and timelines. In 2007, the Center for Grassroots Oversight (CGO) took over operation of the website, renaming it to the History Commons. The current version of the History Commons Web application is written in Java and runs on Apache Tomcat. The data is stored in a MySQL database accessed through JDO. The presentation layer is done in JSP using a templating system called Bricks.\" \n\nUsers of the History Commons can read through the 33 major projects listed on the Timelines page, or any of the subsidiary timelines listed in each project's table of contents. The History Commons Web application can also create dynamic timelines by clicking on an event summary title or tag, or by searching a keyword or entity name. The History Commons Web application also generates a \"context timeline\" based on a particular event, which shows the summary for that event along with associated summaries describing similar or related events. Context timelines are scalable, so a user can focus his or her search as narrowly or as widely as desired. The History Commons Conceptual Summary states: \"[T]he user is able to conduct a finely tuned search for specific information regarding a specific entity or event, or can launch a more broad-based search for information of wider interest.\" \n\nThose choosing to contribute material can begin contributing by creating an account with the History Commons and then submitting specific entries on a topic of their choice. Each submitted entry is required to have at least one source, usually a news article, a government or non-governmental organization document, or a book, and is peer-reviewed by other contributors and project managers before being published to the database for public viewing. The site provides a detailed style manual and a walkthrough tutorial to aid prospective contributors.\n\nNumerous individuals have given feedback on the History Commons, often praising it for its uniqueness and usefulness.\n\nIn October 2010, Salon commentator Glenn Greenwald called the History Commons's Watergate project a \"richly documented summary of those events.\" \n\nIn a 2009 e-mail to the site, author Philip Shenon, a veteran New York Times reporter and author of \"The Commission\", a book about the 9/11 Commission, wrote: \"Your timeline has been invaluable to me over the years. I'm certainly aware of - and flattered by - your citations from my book.\" \n\nCraig Unger, author of \"House of Bush, House of Saud\" and \"The Fall of the House of Bush\", wrote: \"For serious research, it's hard to think of a more valuable resource than the timelines assembled by History Commons. The material they provide is a welcome antidote to the misinformation and disinformation that has been coming out of Washington in recent years and they are essential tools in assembling a counter-narrative that more honestly addresses the crises we face.\" In his acknowledgements to \"House of Bush, House of Saud,\" Unger wrote: \"The Center for Cooperative Research is another valuable Internet tool. Because I made a practice of citing original sources, it does not appear in my notes nearly as often as it might. However, its timelines about 911 and related issues often helped me find exactly what I was looking for. I highly recommend it to anyone doing research on 9/11 and I encourage its support.\"\n\nAuthor Peter Lance wrote, in the acknowledgements of his book \"Cover-Up\": \"As mentioned throughout, I was blessed in this state of my research with access to Paul Thompson's remarkable timelines from the Center for Cooperative Research each citation in that database is supported by a news story from the mainstream media. ... Any research, reporter, or scholar with an interest in the war on terror would consider the Cooperative Research timelines a bonanza of open source information.\" \n\nVillage Voice correspondent James Ridgeway wrote in April 2004: \"Paul Thompson ... is one of a handful of freelance, unpaid, amateur sleuths who have become a 9/11 Information Central—what amounts to an intelligence apparatus aimed at pinning down what the Bush administration knew and didn't know about 9/11, before and after the attacks. The results of this sleuthing often find their way to the 9/11 families, and in particular, to the by now mythic Jersey Girls, as the leaders of the survivors' families have come to be called. The researchers are in many ways similar to the team Scott Armstrong, the former Washington Post reporter, recruited in the mid 1980s to uncover the roots of Reagan's secret Iran-Contra deals. ... At the hub of the 9-11 research is [Paul] Thompson's intricate timeline. ... Still other timelines delve into official 'lies' from 1979 forward. ... [Derek] Mitchell's aim is to keep the entries as neutrally written and as well sourced as he can.\" In his 2005 book, \"The Five Unanswered Questions of 9/11\", Ridgeway referred to Thompson's book, \"The Terror Timeline\", as \"still the most comprehensive summary of the events related to the 9/11 attacks.\" At that time, the book contained only a significant fraction of the total amount of information contained in The Complete 9/11 Timeline at CooperativeResearch.org, and a great deal of material has since been added.\n\nNew York Magazine correspondent Mark Jacobson wrote in 2006, \"[The History Commons'] 9/11 timeline has become the undisputed gold standard of truth research ...\" \n\nMinneapolis City Pages reporter Steve Perry wrote in 2003 that the History Commons is \"endlessly informative.\" \n\nDaniel Erlacher, the director of Austria's Elevate Festival, wrote in an e-mail to the site: \n\nThe History Commons is one of the most important and technologically advanced projects of civil journalism there is today. The website of the project is an enormous resource for researchers. Because of the excellent possibilities to tag entities and to group them in timetables, people can easily read and filter information, which is usually presented out of context. The History Commons is a project which helps connect the dots and sheds light on several inconsistencies in official narratives of some of the most important stories of our time. The Elevate Festival was very proud to present the project for the first time in Europe in 2008 and we will continue to support it.\n\nMatthew Hurst wrote on his Data Mining blog in 2008: \"The site is a cooperative approach to history and presents data in timelines. ... I like this vertical approach to wiki data as it has the potential to focus both expertise and data structures, making the data more valuable in a number of dimensions.\" \n\nAuthor David Ray Griffin wrote in the acknowledgements of his book \"The New Pearl Harbor Revisited\n\nIn acknowledging the tremendous amount of help and support I received in writing this book, I wish to begin by mentioning the indispensable source for 9/11-related stories published in the mainstream press: The Complete 9/11 Timeline at History Commons (formerly known as Cooperative Research). ... [I]t has surely become, through the continuing work of [Paul] Thompson and his colleagues, the greatest feat of annotated, investigative journal indexing ever achieved on a volunteer basis. Having served as the source of about half of my references in \"The New Pearl Harbor\", this timeline has been equally indispensable for \"The New Pearl Harbor Revisited\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8619130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8619130", "title": "Ismail Al-Ajmi", "text": "Ismail Al-Ajmi\n\nIsmail Sulaiman Ashoor Al-Ajmi commonly known as Ismail Al-Ajmi (; born 9 June 1984) is an Omani footballer who plays for Al-Nahda Club in Oman Professional League.\n\nIn the 2005–06 Omani League, Ismail was given the 'Top Scorer' award for a total of 12 goals and hence helping his club to win the overall Championship.\n\nIsmail's most valuable goal for Kuwait SC came in the Final of the 2009 AFC Cup. The goal was scored seconds before the referee's whistle. This goal meant that is the Champion of the AFC Cup of 2009.\n\nOn 25 September 2014, he signed a one-year contract with 2014 GCC Champions League runners-up Saham SC.\n\nOn 28 January 2015, he signed a six-month contract with 2014–15 Oman Professional League champions, Al-Nahda Club.\n\nIsmail has made appearances in the 2007 Gulf Cup of Nations, the 2009 Gulf Cup of Nations, the 2010 Gulf Cup of Nations and the 2013 Gulf Cup of Nations.\n\nIsmail has made appearances in the 2007 AFC Asian Cup qualification, the 2007 AFC Asian Cup, the 2011 AFC Asian Cup qualification and the 2015 AFC Asian Cup qualification.\n\nIn the 2007 AFC Asian Cup qualification, he scored four goals, a goal in a 3-0 win over Jordan, a goal in a 4-1 win over Pakistan, a goal in the return leg in a 5-0 win over Pakistan and another in a 2-1 win over the United Arab Emirates hence helping his team to qualify for the 2007 AFC Asian Cup. Badar Al-Maimani scored one and the only goal of Oman in the 2007 AFC Asian Cup in a 1-1 draw against Australia. In the tournament, Oman won two points in a 1-1 draw against Australia and in a 0-0 draw against Iraq and hence failed to qualify for the quarter-finals.\n\nIn the 2011 AFC Asian Cup qualification, he played in six matches and scored one goal in a 2-1 win over Indonesia. But Oman failed to qualify for the 2011 AFC Asian Cup.\n\nHe made four appearances in the 2015 AFC Asian Cup qualification but failed to score a single goal. He again helped his team to qualify for the 2015 AFC Asian Cup by finishing at the top of the Group A.\n\nIsmail has made seven appearances in the 2010 FIFA World Cup qualification and fifteen in the 2014 FIFA World Cup.\n\nHe scored two goals in the 2010 FIFA World Cup qualification, one in a 1-0 win over Thailand and another in a 1-1 draw against Bahrain.\n\nHe scored two goals in the 2014 FIFA World Cup qualification, one in the Second Round of FIFA World Cup qualification in a 2-0 win over Myanmar and another in the Fourth Round of FIFA World Cup qualification in a 1-0 win over Iraq. Oman entered the last game of group play with a chance to qualify for at least the playoff-round, but a 1-0 loss to Jordan eliminated them from contention.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42607433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42607433", "title": "John Van Riemsdijk", "text": "John Van Riemsdijk\n\nJohn Van Riemsdijk (13 November 1924 – 31 August 2008) was a curator of the Science Museum, London. He was instrumental in establishing the National Railway Museum in the years before 1975. He was a noted model engineer and author. He merited a Guardian newspaper obituary in 2008.\n\nVan Riemsdijk was born in 1924. His parentage brought a Dutch father and an English mother together. So that as a young man, he travelled widely by train with his father around Europe. He attended University College School, Hampstead, and Birkbeck College, London, where he read English and French. Soon after graduating he was recruited into the Royal Navy.\n\nCombining his knowledge of continental Europe and his practical inventive skills saw him recruited in World War Two into the Special Operations Executive.\n\nPrior to joining the Science Museum in 1954, he had already made a name for himself in the model railway world with a geared clockwork mechanism. This was marketed as the Walker Riemsdijk mechanism. The Walker element referring to the London shop of Walkers & Holtzapffel in whose catalogue it was featured.\n\nDuring the design of the National Railway Museum he worked closely with David Jenkinson.\n\nHe became an acknowledged expert in the history and practice of the Compound locomotive.\n\nHe held memberships of the Newcomen Society, Stephenson Locomotive Society, the Bevil's Club, and the office of a vice-president of the Gauge One Model Railway Association.\n\nPublications authored by John Van Riemsdijk:\n\nMaterial about John Van Riemsdijk: \n"}
{"id": "19783245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19783245", "title": "Languages of Benin", "text": "Languages of Benin\n\nBenin is a diverse country linguistically. A total of 55 languages are spoken in Benin, with 50 being indigenous. Of those, French is the official language, and all the indigenous languages are considered national languages.\n\nOf the Beninese languages, Fon (a Gbe language) and Yoruba are the most important in the south of the country. In the north there are half a dozen regionally important languages, including Bariba (once counted as a Gur language) and Fulfulde.\n\nEducation for the deaf in Benin uses American Sign Language, introduced by the deaf American missionary Andrew Foster.\n\nThe multilingual character of Beninese society is characterized by the number of languages spoken, ethno-linguistic diversity, stratification of language use (whereby French is used officially and other languages used in other spheres of activity), and by the fact that many Beninese are polyglots.\n\nThe official language of Benin varies by the population, about 4 million people. It is important to know to get an administrative position or work in the cities in general, and speaking French is a mark of prestige. According to a study by Amadou Sanni and Mahouton Atodjinou in 2012, it is estimated that Benin will be completely Francophone by 2060. The authors note that, in 2002, 43 percent of men spoke the language compared to 25.8 percent of women. In 2002, more than half of the residents of Cotonou spoke French. French was introduced during the colonial period and retained as the official language upon independence. Today it is an important lingua franca between diverse ethnic groups.\n\nAlthough the Constitution grants freedom of expression, all printed media outlets are in French and not the indigenous languages. Benin is a member of the Organisation internationale de la francophonie. The region of Benin Gi-Mono is a member of the International Association of Francophone regions.\n\nA unique variety of French called \"français d'Afrique\" has developed in the streets and markets of Cotonou. Grammatical structures are typically borrowed from the speaker's first language. It is especially the conjugation rules that have been changed the most, especially the less common forms like the literary style. It has an almost argotic character.\n\nFon is the most widely spoken indigenous language, spoken by 24% of the population. It is the first language of more than 17% of Benin's population. The language is mainly spoken in the Atlantique, Littoral, Collines and Zou Departments.\n\nOther important languages are Yoruba, Bariba, Mina and Dendi. Benin implemented a National Literacy and Adult Education Policy, which allowed adult speakers of national languages to use their languages for cultural advancement.\n\nIn the capital of Porto Novo, the two main ethnoliguistic groups are Yoruba and Gouin, with the smaller population of Wemi, Seto, Tori, Xwala, Defi, and Tofin speakers. Yoruba newspapers from neighboring Nigeria are popular.\n\nEnglish is studied as a foreign language in secondary schools. There is a high demand for English teachers in Benin. English is emerging as an important language of trade in Benin due to it being the national tongue of Benin's regionally powerful neighbor Nigeria.\n\nSpanish was studied by 412,515 persons in Benin in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "9737616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9737616", "title": "List of larger indigenous peoples of Russia", "text": "List of larger indigenous peoples of Russia\n\nThe list of larger indigenous peoples of Russia includes extant indigenous peoples in the territory of Russia who are not listed in the official list of minor indigenous peoples of Russia.\n\nThis sublist includes indigenous peoples of Russia which are titular nations, i.e., peoples who gave rise to the names of national entities: independent states or autonomous areas.\n\n\nThis small republic has a relatively large number of ethnic groups and languages. According to a 2000 decree of the government of Russian Federation, Dagestan was supposed to compile its own list of small-numbered indigenous peoples, to be included in the overall list of minor indigenous peoples of Russia. The peoples below do not fall under the criteria of the decree.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19533284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19533284", "title": "List of scandals in British journalism", "text": "List of scandals in British journalism\n\nThere have been a number of scandals in British journalism during the 21st century.\n\nTwo financial journalists working on the City Slickers section of the \"Daily Mirror\" were convicted in 2005 for buying, tipping and then selling shares between 1999 and 2000, breaching the Financial Services Act. Investigations revealed James Hipwell and Anil Bhoyrul made at least £41,000 from those wrongdoings. The investigation also revealed that Piers Morgan, editor of the newspaper, actually encouraged this behaviour. James Hipwell and Anil Bhoyrul were fired from the \"Daily Mirror\" in 2000.\n\nIn April 2003, the Sky News TV network carried a report from James Forlong aboard the British nuclear submarine HMS \"Splendid\", purportedly showing the live firing of a cruise missile at sea in the Persian Gulf during the Iraq War. The report included scenes of the crew members giving instructions related to the launch of the missile, and included a sequence in which a crew member pressed a large red button marked with the word \"FIRE\", accompanied by a sequence of a missile breaking the surface of the water and launching into the air. The report was a fabrication, with the crew acting along for the benefit of the cameras. The \"Sky News\" team did not accompany the submarine when it left port, and the scenes were actually recorded whilst the vessel was docked. The shot of the missile breaking the surface had been obtained from stock footage.\n\nThe faked report was revealed because a BBC film crew did accompany the vessel to sea. The BBC crew filmed a real cruise missile launch for the BBC TV series \"Fighting the War\". The BBC footage showed how, with modern computerised launching systems, a missile is not launched by pressing a red button, but is actually launched with a left mouse click. Following the BBC's accusations, Forlong and his producer were suspended; the next day, \"The Guardian\" reported that Forlong had resigned following an internal investigation.\n\nIn a follow-up article, \"The Guardian\"s Matt Wells speculated on the fake's long-term effects on Sky News's credibility. In October 2003, Forlong was found dead by his wife, having committed suicide. In December, Sky News was fined £50,000 by the Independent Television Commission for breaching accuracy regulations.\n\nReuters pulled 920 photographs of the 2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict from freelance photographer Adnan Hajj in August 2006, after it was exposed that several high-profile photographs had been altered heavily in Adobe Photoshop; see Adnan Hajj photographs controversy. The manipulations exaggerated the damage done by Israeli bombing.\n\nReuters \"killed\" the 'photograph' and admitted that the photographer had altered it, saying \"photo editing software was improperly used on this image. A corrected version will immediately follow this advisory. We are sorry for any inconvenience.\" Moira Whittle, Reuters' Head of PR, said: \"Reuters takes such matters extremely seriously as it is strictly against company editorial policy to alter pictures.\"\n\nSky News's Chief Correspondent, Stuart Ramsay, was accused by the Romanian authorities of faking a TV report in which alleged gun traffickers were filmed near the Romanian-Ukrainian border saying that they were willing to sell weapons to the highest bidder, including terrorists. The Romanian Directorate for Investigating Organized Crime and Terrorism (\"Direcţia de Investigare a Infracţiunilor de Criminalitate Organizată şi Terorism\", DIICOT) quickly arrested the alleged gun traffickers from the TV report; it concluded that they were authorized hunters and the rifles seen in the report were also registered semi-automatic weapons. Sky News and Stuart Ramsay stuck to the original story, claiming the footage was real and that the gun traffickers did operate near the Romanian-Ukrainian border. All the individuals involved in the filming of the TV report, including Ramsay, are now under investigation by DIICOT.\n\nThe Romanian Prime Minister Dacian Ciolos criticized the TV report, claiming it to be inadmissible.\n\nIn 2006, a UK tabloid newspaper phone-hacking scandal arose involving the defunct \"News of the World\" newspaper and other British titles published by News International, a subsidiary of Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. Reporters and managers working at the newspapers were accused of 'hacking' the phone voicemail inboxes of celebrities, notable public figures (such as the British Royal Family), and even the victims of crimes (including Milly Dowler) and their families, in order to gather material for stories. There were also allegations of police bribery and other misdemeanours.\n\nThe resulting public outcry led to several high-profile resignations. Advertiser boycotts led to the News of the World being shuttered, publishing its final edition on 10 July 2011, after 168 years of publication. News Corporation was also to cancel its proposed takeover of the British satellite broadcaster BSkyB. The then prime minister, David Cameron, announced a public inquiry would look into the complaints made against the News of the World. This became known as the Leveson Inquiry, after the judge presiding over it, Lord Justice Leveson. A number of arrests and convictions followed, most notably that of the former \"News of the World\" managing editor Andy Coulson and Rebekah Brooks.\n\nIn September and October 2012, almost a year after his death, claims were widely publicised that Jimmy Savile had committed sexual abuse, his alleged victims ranging from prepubescent girls and boys to adults. The investigations undertaken jointly by the police and the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC), \"Giving Victims a Voice\" reported allegations covering a period of fifty years, including 214 alleged acts by Savile which, though uncorroborated, have been formally recorded as crimes, some involving children as young as eight. The report states \"within the recorded crimes there are 126 indecent acts and 34 rape/penetration offences.\"\n\nAfter his death on 29 October 2011, Meirion Jones and Liz Mackean from the BBC programme \"Newsnight\" began to investigate reports that he had sexually abused children. They found evidence to support the allegations. The \"Newsnight\" report was scheduled for broadcast on BBC on 7 December 2011, but a decision was taken to cancel its transmission, which ultimately developed into a major crisis for the BBC when the ITV documentary was screened in October 2012. The subsequent Pollard Review found that Jones and MacKean assembled cogent evidence that Savile had a history of abusing young women, and \"Newsnight\" was in a position to break the story in 2011. A \"Newsnight\" spokesman said, \"Any suggestion that a story was dropped for anything other than editorial reasons is completely untrue.\"\n\nIn 2012, the British Journalism Awards was created by UK media magazine \"Press Gazette\" in response to the latest scandals and to value great contributions to journalism.\n"}
{"id": "37712316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37712316", "title": "Long Meiyi", "text": "Long Meiyi\n\nLong Meiyi () is a woman from Guizhou province in China who alleged she was raped by mining magnate Zhou Shili. Long's allegations made domestic and international headlines after she and her parents began appealing to Beijing for justice and complaining of corruption in the courts. A significant factor in the case's popularity is that Long's mother and stepfather are government officials in China, who have generally found themselves on the other side of the politicised legal system that she now claims is obstructing the justice she seeks.\n\nLong's case caused a sensation in the Chinese blogosphere as it was revealed that her stepfather, Tian Wancang, was responsible for Liupanshui's \"stability preservation\" efforts, which means that in addition to police and other security groups, he ran the \"letters and complaints\" system that is supposed to provide an avenue for disgruntled citizens while simultaneously focusing on gathering intelligence about those citizens.\n\nWhen Long was 19, she met Zhou Shili at a Beijing night club. It was 26 December 2008. Long says that Zhou then tried to curry favour with her in hopes of gaining access to her stepfather, Tian Wancang, the vice-mayor of Liupanshui, a city of approximately 3 million people.\n\nZhou is the head of Qingli Group, which owns a number of mines in China, and he is also a standing committee member of the provincial China People's Political Consultative Conference, a political advisory body that provides him with access to top people in the government.\n\nIn January 2009, Long went with Zhou to meet her parents in Guiyang, after which, her mother told her to cut off contact with him. On 8 January 2009, Long says she attempted to end the relationship with Zhou while at their hotel. She says Zhou became angry and proceeded to rape her. Zhou denies the allegations of rape, insisting that their sexual relations were consensual.\n\nAt the center of Long's rape allegations is the Chinese concept of \"guanxi,\" a complex term referring to relationships based on reciprocity. According to Long, Zhou wanted more guanxi in Guizhou and saw her as foothold to help him build his way up to get the needed relationships to open a mining operation there. When Long tried to break off the short relationship, she says he felt it was a violation of guanxi; because he had given her gifts and paid for their trip, he felt entitled to more efforts from her to help him make contacts. The rape, she says, was partially retaliatory in nature.\n\nLong took her case to the police, and after being disappointed in the justice system, began appealing through official channels, eventually going to Beijing to try her luck with the central government. She was repeatedly detained and sent back to Guizhou, only to return again later. After she contacted the media with her story, the case became widely known and heavily discussed on Chinese social media sites like Sina Weibo.\nLong's father, Tian Fangchang, who himself has been officially tasked with quieting dissent told the Yangcheng Evening News in a 7 July 2011 interview, that he scolded his daughter for her appeals in Beijing because he “feared it would damage Guizhou’s image.” Then, on 19 July, he officially stated, “I will use the Party’s nature and Party discipline to guarantee that in the past, now, or in the future, I will not do anything to damage the image or interests of the Party.” The next day, on 20 July 2011, the People’s Daily, Beijing's state-run newspaper, published an article stating that the rape allegations “were not true.” Zhou then took to the media to defend himself, giving an interview to Phoenix TV, wherein he admitted to the relationship but insisted that he did not rape Long.\n\nZhou Shili recused himself from his political position and came under fire at his company because of the pressures from the case.\n"}
{"id": "5285038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5285038", "title": "Luis Felipe (murderer)", "text": "Luis Felipe (murderer)\n\nLuis Felipe (born May 11, 1961), also known as \"King Blood\" is the founder of the New York chapter of the organized crime gang known as the Almighty Latin Kings and Queens Nation. Born in Havana, Cuba, Felipe was a Cuban who came to the United States in the 1980 Mariel Boatlift. Six years later, in 1986, he founded the New York chapter of the Latin Kings.\n\nIn 1995, he was convicted of ordering multiple murders from prison by writing to members of the Latin Kings on the outside. Judge John S. Martin Jr. sentenced him to life imprisonment plus 45 years.\n\nAdditionally, the judge added some extraordinary conditions. Surprising even prosecutors, Judge Martin said Felipe must serve the sentence in solitary confinement. He forbade him to write or be visited by anyone except his lawyer and close relatives, of whom Felipe has none. Finally, the judge said that he himself, rather than the Federal Bureau of Prisons, would control the case.\n\nFelipe is currently incarcerated at ADX Florence.\n"}
{"id": "9088662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9088662", "title": "Lund (Baloch tribe)", "text": "Lund (Baloch tribe)\n\nLund () is a Baloch tribe of Pakistan. They originally came from Balochistan and are now settled in Punjab, around Dera Ghazi Khan and Sindh.\n"}
{"id": "3475521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3475521", "title": "Maltese people", "text": "Maltese people\n\nThe Maltese (, ) are an ethnic group indigenous to Malta, and identified with the Maltese language. Malta is an island in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea. Included within the ethnic group defined by the Maltese people are the \"Gozitans\" () who inhabit Malta's sister island, Gozo.\n\nThe current Maltese people, characterised by the use of the Maltese language and by Roman Catholicism, are the descendants – through much mixing and hybridisation – of colonists from Sicily and Calabria who repopulated the Maltese islands in the beginning of the second millennium after a two-century lapse of depopulation that followed the Arab conquest by the Aghlabids in AD 870.\nA genetic study by Capelli et al. indicates that Malta was barely inhabited at the turn of the tenth century and was likely to have been repopulated by settlers from Sicily and Calabria who spoke Siculo-Arabic.\nPrevious inhabitants of the islands – Phoenicians, Romans, Byzantines – did not leave many traces, as most nameplaces were lost and replaced. \nThe Normans conquered the island in 1091 and completely re-Christianised them by 1249. This re-Christianisation created the conditions for the evolution of the Maltese language from the now extinct Siculo-Arabic dialect.\n\nThe influences on the population after this have been fiercely debated among historians and geneticists. The origins question is complicated by numerous factors, including Malta's turbulent history of invasions and conquests, with long periods of depopulation followed by periods of immigration to Malta and intermarriage with the Maltese by foreigners from the Mediterranean, Western and Southern European countries that ruled Malta. The many demographic influences on the island include:\n\nOver time, the various rulers of Malta published their own view of the ethnicity of the population. The Knights of Malta downplayed the role of Islam in Malta and promoted the idea of a continuous Roman Catholic presence.\n\nY-DNA haplogroups are found at the following frequencies in Malta: R1 (35.55% including 32.2% R1b), J (28.90% including 21.10% J2 and 7.8% J1), I (12.20%), E (11.10% including 8.9% E1b1b), F (6.70%), K (4.40%), P (1.10%). Haplogroup R1 and I are typical in European populations and E, K, F and J haplogroups consist of lineages with differential distribution mostly in the Middle East and North Africa. The study by Capelli et al. has concluded that the contemporary males of Malta most likely originated from Southern Italy. The study also indicates that Malta was barely inhabited at the turn of the tenth century and was likely to have been repopulated by settlers from Sicily and Calabria who spoke Siculo-Arabic. These findings confirm the onomastic and linguistic evidence presented in 1993 by Geoffrey Hull, who traced the oldest Maltese surnames to southern and south-eastern Sicily, especially the Agrigento district. \n\nThe study of Capelli et al. clustered the male Maltese genetic markers with those of Sicilians and Calabrians, while showing a minuscule input from the Eastern Mediterranean with genetic affinity to Christian Lebanon. \nThere was also little genetic input found from North Africa. \n\nAnother study carried out by geneticists Spencer Wells and Pierre Zalloua of the American University of Beirut claimed that more than 50% of Y-chromosomes from Maltese men could have Phoenician origins. However, the Wells and Zalloua study was not published in a peer-reviewed academic journal and its conclusions disagree with the findings of major peer-reviewed studies. It is thus considered unsound.\n\nThe culture of Malta is a reflection of various cultures that have come into contact with the Maltese Islands throughout the centuries, including neighbouring Mediterranean cultures, and the cultures of the nations that ruled Malta for long periods of time prior to its independence in 1964.\n\nThe culture of modern Malta has been described as a \"rich pattern of traditions, beliefs and practices,\" which is the result of \"a long process of adaptation, assimilation and cross fertilization of beliefs and usages drawn from various conflicting sources.\" It has been subjected to the same complex, historic processes that gave rise to the linguistic and ethnic admixture that defines who the people of Malta and Gozo are today.\n\nMaltese people speak the Maltese language, a unique hybrid vernacular basically Semitic but with an imposing Romance (Italian) superstratum, and written in the Latin alphabet in its standard form. The language is descended from Siculo-Arabic, an extinct dialect of Arabic that was spoken in Sicily by indigenous people who were at that time divided in religion into continuing Greek-rite Christians and Muslims whose recent ancestors were Sicilian converts from Christianity. In the course of Malta's history, the language has adopted massive amounts of vocabulary from Sicilian and Italian, to a much lesser degree, borrowings from English (anglicisms being more common in colloquial Maltese than in the literary language), and a few dozen French loanwords. A large number of superficially Arabic words and idioms are actually loan translations (calques) from Sicilian and Italian which would make little or no sense to speakers of other Arabic-derived languages.\n\nMaltese became an official language of Malta in 1934, replacing Italian and joining English. There are an estimated 371,900 speakers in Malta of the language, with statistics citing that 100% of the people are able to speak Maltese, 88% English, 66% Italian and 17% French, showing a greater degree of linguistic capabilities than most other European countries. In fact multilingualism is a common phenomenon in Malta, with English, Maltese and on occasion Italian, used in everyday life. Whilst Maltese is the national language, it has been suggested that with the ascendancy of English a language shift may begin; though a survey dating to 2005 suggested that the percentage speaking Maltese as their mother tongue within Malta remained at 97%.\n\nThe Constitution of Malta provides for freedom of religion but establishes Roman Catholicism as the state religion. The original Maltese population were Christians of the Byzantine (Greek) rite, like the older Christian communities of Sicily. Consequently the most ancient layer of liturgical vocabulary in Maltese consists of Greek and Arabic words (the latter used in worship by the Arabic-speaking Sicilians of Byzantine rite during the Muslim occupation). The Roman rite (with Latin as the liturgical language) was imposed throughout the islands in the early fourteenth century, though the Greek Catholic church was re-established after 1530 by the Knights of Saint John for their Rhodian and other Greek followers.\n\nMalta is described in the Book of Acts ( and ) as the place where Paul the Apostle was shipwrecked on his way to Rome, awaiting trial. Freedom House and the \"World Factbook\" report that 98% of the Maltese are Catholic (mostly Roman-rite, with a Byzantine-rite minority), making the nation one of the most Catholic countries in the world.\n\nMalta has long been a country of emigration, with big Maltese communities in English-speaking countries abroad as well as in France.\nMass emigration picked up in the 19th century, reaching its peak in the decades after World War II. Migration was initially to north African countries (particularly Algeria, Tunisia and Egypt); later Maltese migrants headed towards the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada and Australia. There is little trace left of the Franco-Maltese communities in north Africa, most of them having been displaced, after the rise of independence movements, to places like France (especially Marseille and the Riviera), the United Kingdom or Australia. The Franco-Maltese are culturally distinct from the Maltese from Malta, in that the former have remained attached to the use of the Italian language (often, but not always, alongside Maltese) as well as speaking French. Although migration has ceased to be a social phenomenon of significance there are still important Maltese communities in Australia, Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom. Emigration dropped dramatically after the mid-1970s and has since ceased to be a social phenomenon of significance. \nSince Malta joined the EU in 2004 expatriate communities emerged in a number of European countries particularly in Belgium and Luxembourg.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1246709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1246709", "title": "National Museum of Women in the Arts", "text": "National Museum of Women in the Arts\n\nThe National Museum of Women in the Arts (NMWA), located in Washington, D.C., is \"the only major museum in the world solely dedicated\" to celebrating women's achievements in the visual, performing, and literary arts. NMWA was incorporated in 1981 by Wallace and Wilhelmina Holladay. Since opening its doors in 1987, the museum has acquired a collection of more than 4,500 paintings, sculptures, works on paper, and decorative art. Highlights of the collection include works by Mary Cassatt, Frida Kahlo, and Élisabeth Louise Vigée-Le Brun. The museum occupies the old Masonic Temple, a building listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThe museum was founded to reform traditional histories of art. It is dedicated to discovering and making known women artists who have been overlooked or unacknowledged, and assuring the place of women in contemporary art. The museum's founder, Wilhelmina Cole Holladay, and her husband Wallace F. Holladay began collecting art in the 1960s, just as scholars were beginning to discuss the under-representation of women in museum collections and major art exhibitions. Impressed by a 17th-century Flemish still life painting by Clara Peeters that they saw in Europe, they sought out information on Peeters and found that the definitive art history texts referenced neither her nor any other woman artist. They became committed to collecting artwork by women and eventually to creating a museum and research center.\n\nThe National Museum of Women in the Arts was incorporated in December 1981 as a private, non-profit museum, and the Holladay donation became the core of the institution's permanent collection. After purchasing and extensively renovating a former Masonic Temple, NMWA opened in April 1987 with the inaugural exhibition American Women Artists, 1830–1930. To underscore its commitment to increasing the attention given to women in all disciplines, NMWA commissioned Pulitzer Prize-winning composer Ellen Taaffe Zwilich to write \"Concerto for Two Pianos and Orchestra\" inspired by five paintings from the permanent collection, for an opening concert. In November 1997, the Elisabeth A. Kasser Wing was opened, adding two new galleries, a larger museum shop, and a reception room. Currently, Director Susan Fisher Sterling heads a staff of more than 30 people.\n\nIn 1983, NMWA purchased a landmark former Masonic temple in the Renaissance Revival style to house its works. After extensive renovations that included the addition of the two dramatic marble stairways linking the first floor and mezzanine, the museum opened to the public on April 7, 1987. The Elizabeth A. Kasser Wing opened November 8, 1997 making the entire facility .\n\nWilhelmina Cole Holladay is the founder and chair of the Board of the National Museum of Women in the Arts. Since her discovery that women artists have historically been omitted from collegiate art history texts, Wilhelmina Cole Holladay has made it her mission to bring to the forefront the accomplishments of women through collecting, exhibiting and researching women artists of all nationalities and time periods.\n\nHolladay created individual committees of over 1,000 volunteers from 27 states and 7 countries, to give educational opportunities to children through collaborations with schools and other community groups (e.g. Girl Scouts of the USA), as well as provided opportunities for adults to participate and encourage art in local communities across the globe.\n\nWilhelmina Cole Holladay's interest in art was sparked as a student at Elmira College in New York, where she studied art history, followed by graduate work at the University of Paris. She is listed in \"Who's Who of American Women\", \"Who's Who in American Art\", \"Who's Who in the World\", and she holds many honorary degrees and achievement awards for her work in the arts community. In 2006 she received the National Medal of Arts from the United States and the \"Légion d'honneur\" from the French government. In 2007 Holladay received the Gold Medal for the Arts from the National Arts Club in New York City.\n\nBy 2015, a selection of sculptures will be installed along New York Avenue from 13th Street to 9th Street, in the heart of Mount Vernon Square. The museums efforts are in part to bring \"character\" to an area where \"there is a lot of good stuff going on,\" due to revitalization programs in the neighborhood.\n\nNiki de Saint Phalle's works, four in total, were the first in a series of installations. The museums installation of de Saint Phalle's iconic pop art works are meant to be contrasting to the traditional sculpture that graces the streets and squares of Washington. All five major median strips will eventually be made into \"sculpture islands,\" as described by National Museum of Women in the Art's director Susan Fisher Sterling. Another inspiration for the project comes from the lack of innovative contemporary art in Washington, encouraging the evolution of an area that is in need of becoming hip and vibrant. The second artist to be featured, whose works are on display March 8, 2012 – March 9, 2014, was Chakaia Booker.\n\nThe project has been sponsored by Medda Gudelsky, the D.C. Downtown B.I.D., the Philip L. Graham Fund, the Homer and Martha Gudelsky Family Foundation, members of the museum, the D.C. Department of Transportation, among others.\n\nThese works will remain up for one year, before being returned to the artists foundation.\n\nThe collection currently contains more than 4,500 works in a variety of styles and media, spanning from the 16th century to present day. Among the earliest works is Lavinia Fontana’s Portrait of a Noblewoman, ca. 1580. There are also a number of special collections, including 18th century botanical prints, works by British and Irish women silversmiths from the 17th–19th centuries, and more than 1,000 unique and limited edition artists’ books.\n\nNearly 1,000 artists are represented, including Magdalena Abakanowicz, Lynda Benglis, Rosa Bonheur, Chakaia Booker, Louise Bourgeois, Lola Alvarez Bravo, Rosalba Carriera, Mary Cassatt, Elizabeth Catlett, Judy Chicago, Camille Claudel, Louisa Courtauld, Petah Coyne, Louise Dahl-Wolfe, Elaine de Kooning, Lesley Dill, Helen Frankenthaler, Sonia Gechtoff, Marguerite Gérard, Nan Goldin, Nancy Graves, Grace Hartigan, Frida Kahlo, Angelica Kauffman, Käthe Kollwitz, Lee Krasner, Justine Kurland, Bettye Lane, Marie Laurencin, Hung Liu, Judith Leyster, Maria Martinez, Maria Sibylla Merian, Joan Mitchell, Gabriele Münter, Elizabeth Murray, Alice Neel, Louise Nevelson, Sarah Miriam Peale, Clara Peeters, Lilla Cabot Perry, Jaune Quick-to-See Smith, Rachel Ruysch, Elisabetta Sirani, Joan Snyder, Lilly Martin Spencer, Alma Thomas, Suzanne Valadon, and Élisabeth-Louise Vigée-Le Brun.\n\nThe Betty Boyd Dettre Library and Research Center (LRC) provides researchers with information about women visual artists from all time periods and nationalities. It is open to scholars, students, researchers, curators, museum professionals, and the general public. The LRC collection includes 18,500 volumes of books and exhibition catalogues, 50 periodical titles, and research files on 18,000 individual women artists. These files include resumes, correspondence, reproductions, articles, and other ephemeral materials. The Arts and Entertainment Network Media Library holds approximately 500 videos, DVDs, audio tapes, and other audiovisual materials, including examples of video art, interviews with women artists, documentaries, and films directed by women.\n\nAlso available to researchers are The Nelleke Nix and Marianne Huber Collection: The Frida Kahlo Papers consists of more than 360 unpublished letters, postcards, notes, clippings, printed matter, and drawings relating to the artist's life and work.\n\nIn spring 2007, the LRC launched \"Clara: Database of Women Artists,\" a user-friendly searchable interface for biographic information on close to 18,000 historic and contemporary women artists from around the world. Since integrated within the NMWA web site, Clara has been decommissioned and is in the process of being moved.\n\nBeginning in 1987 with \"American Women Artists, 1830–1930\", NMWA has presented more than 200 exhibitions. A selection of the most prominent exhibitions includes:\n\n\nNMWA hosts educational programs for all age groups to teach the public about the artistic accomplishments of women. Programs include monthly Community Days with free museum admission, and Role Model Workshops that connect teenagers with accomplished women working in the art world. Member days include curator- and artist-led tours. The Education Department is also involved in various outreach programs to area educators. For example, the 2010 \"Teachers Connect\" program was designed around the promotion of NMWA's Art, Books, and Creativity curriculum.\n\nThe free Shenson Chamber Music Concerts support the museum's mission of recognizing women in all areas of the arts by featuring woman musicians throughout the year. Past performers include the Ahn Trio, Arianna and Eugenia Zuckerman, Ingrid Fliter, Sharon Ibsin and Rachel Barton Pine. NMWA's literary programs showcase women writers by bringing in authors such as Susan Vreeland, Lisa See, Maxine Hong Kingston, Naomi Shihab Nye, Joyce Carol Oates, and Mireille Guiliano. In addition, NMWA has offered film screenings of works by respected women directors and screenwriters including Maya Angelou, Barbara Hammer, Cheryl Dunye, Eva López Sánchez, Miranda July, Bette Gordon, and Julie Taymor.\n\nThe museum is located at 1250 New York Avenue and H Street N.W. The closest Washington Metro stations are Metro Center or McPherson Square stations. The museum is open Monday–Saturday 10 a.m.–5 p.m. and Sundays noon–5 p.m. Admission is $10 for adults, $8 for students and visitors 65 and over, and free for members and visitors 18 and under. Admission is free to all on the first Sunday of every month. The NMWA Museum Shop is open the same hours at the Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43750269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43750269", "title": "Nihon Ishi Gakkai", "text": "Nihon Ishi Gakkai\n\nNihon Ishi Gakkai (), Japanese Society for the History of Medicine, JSHM) is a juridical corporation (\"shadan hōjin\") established in 1892 by the physician Fujikawa Yū and several colleagues in order to promote the study, research and communication of the history of medicine and allied sciences in all of its aspects. The secretariat of the society is housed in the Departement of Medical History, Juntendo University (Tokyo).\n\nThe Japanese Society for the History of Medicine publishes the \"Nihon Ishigaku Zasshi – Journal of the Japanese Society for the History of Medicine\". It offers two scientific awards, the \"Fujikawa-Yū-Award\" (the former Scientific Promotion Award) and the \"Yakazu-Award\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17577602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17577602", "title": "Pesticide formulation", "text": "Pesticide formulation\n\nThe biological activity of a pesticide, be it chemical or biological in nature, is determined by its active ingredient (AI - also called the \"active substance\"). Pesticide products very rarely consist of pure technical material. The AI is usually formulated with other materials and this is the product as sold, but it may be further diluted in use. Formulations improves the properties of a chemical for handling, storage, application and may substantially influence effectiveness and safety.\n\nFormulation terminology follows a 2-letter convention: (\"e.g.\" GR: granules) listed by CropLife International (formerly GIFAP then GCPF) in the \"Catalogue of Pesticide Formulation Types\" (Monograph 2); see: download page . Some manufacturers do not follow these industry standards, which can cause confusion for users.\n\nBy far the most frequently used products are formulations for mixing with water then applying as sprays.\nWater miscible, older formulations include:\n\nNewer, non-powdery formulations with reduced or no use of hazardous solvents and improved stability include:\n\nOther common formulations include granules (GR) and dusts (DP), although for improved safety the latter have been replaced by microgranules (MG \"e.g\". for rice farmers in Japan). Specialist formulations are available for ultra-low volume spraying, fogging, fumigation, \"etc\". Very occasionally, some pesticides (\"e.g\". malathion) may be sold as technical material (TC - which is mostly AI, but also contains small quantities of, usually non-active, by-products of the manufacturing process).\n\nA particularly efficient form of pesticide dose transfer is seed treatment and specific formulations have been developed for this purpose. A number of pesticide bait formulations are available for rodent pest control, \"etc\".\n\nIn reality many formulation codes are used: AB, AE, AL, AP, BB, BR, CB, CF, CG, CL, CP, CS, DC, DL, DP, DS, DT, EC, ED, EG, EO, ES, EW, FD, FG, FK, FP, FR, FS, FT, FU, FW, GA, GB, GE, GF, GG, GL, GP, GR, GS, GW, HN, KK, KL, KN, KP, LA, LS, LV, MC, ME, MG, MV, OD, OF, OL, OP, PA, PB, PC, PO, PR, PS, RB, SA, SB, SC, SD, SE, SG, SL, SO, SP, SS, ST, SU, TB, TC, TK, TP, UL, VP, WG, WP, WS, WT, XX, ZC, ZE and ZW.\n\n"}
{"id": "17995105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17995105", "title": "Prostitution in Albania", "text": "Prostitution in Albania\n\nProstitution in Albania is illegal but widespread.\n\nPrior to the collapse of the Soviet Union in the early 1990s, prostitution in Albania was virtually unknown. The migration from rural areas to the cities, and economic problems that followed the collapse caused some women to turn to prostitution.\n\nStreet prostitution occurs near the centre of the capital, Tirana, mainly by Roma men and women. Some students work as prostitutes from hotels or motels in Tirana and other big cities. Brothels also found in the cities.\n\nThe NGO \"Aksion Plus\" works with sex workers for advocacy, education and support.\n\nThe Criminal Code of the Republic of Albania outlaws prostitution and related activities:\n\n\nAlbania is a source, transit, and destination country for women and children subjected to sex trafficking. Albanian women and children are subjected to sex trafficking within the country, especially during tourist season. Traffickers use false promises such as marriage or employment offers to force victims into sex trafficking. Traffickers increasingly use social media to recruit victims. Albanian victims are subjected to sex trafficking in countries across Europe, particularly Kosovo, Greece, Italy, and the United Kingdom. Foreign from Eastern European countries, Philippines, and Nigeria were subjected to sex trafficking in Albania. Middle Eastern, Central Asian, and African migrants transit Albania to reach Western Europe and are vulnerable to trafficking.\n\nArticles 110(a) and 128(b) of the criminal code prohibit sex and labour trafficking and prescribe penalties of eight to 15 years imprisonment. Twenty-one of suspects in 2016 were investigated for child trafficking and 48 for adult trafficking. \n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Albania as a 'Tier 2' country.\n\n"}
{"id": "17169448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17169448", "title": "Prostitution in Sierra Leone", "text": "Prostitution in Sierra Leone\n\nProstitution in Sierra Leone is legal and commonplace. Soliciting and 3rd party involvement are prohibited by the Sexual Offences Act 2012. UNAIDS estimate there are 240,000 prostitutes in the country. They are known locally as 'serpents' because of the hissing noise they use to attract clients.\n\nSex workers report they are often abused, harassed and suffer extortion by the police.\n\nIn 1787 the British Crown founded a settlement in Sierra Leone in what was called the \"Province of Freedom\". It intended to resettle some of the \"Black Poor of London,\" mostly African Americans freed by the British during the American Revolutionary War. About 290 free black men, 41 black women and 60 white prostitutes from London reached Sierra Leone on 15 May 1787. \n\nSince the end of the ten-year civil war in Sierra Leone, there has been an increase in child prostitution, especially among children who are struggling to survive. This has happened in spite of the fact that child prostitution is illegal in the country.\n\nSierra Leone is a source and destination country for men, women, and children subjected to sex trafficking. Victims originate largely from rural provinces and are recruited to urban and mining centers for exploitation in sex trafficking. At times, sex trafficking occurs on beaches and in nightclubs. Trafficking victims are also exploited in fishing and agriculture and subjected to sex trafficking through customary practices, such as forced marriages. Traffickers typically operate individually, convincing parents to hand over their children and promising to provide an education or better life but instead exploiting the children in trafficking. Sierra Leonean girls are increasingly exploited in Guinea. Traffickers have exploited boys and girls from Sierra Leone to reportedly work as “cultural dancers”—and possibly also for sexual exploitation—in The Gambia. Sierra Leonean adults voluntarily migrate to other West African countries, including Mauritania and Guinea, as well as to the Middle East and Europe, where some are subjected to forced prostitution. As in previous years, Sierra Leonean women are subjected to trafficking in Kuwait and Lebanon. Children from neighboring West African countries have been exploited in prostitution in Sierra Leone.\n\nThe 2005 anti-trafficking law criminalizes all forms of human trafficking and prescribes a maximum penalty of 10 years imprisonment and/or a fine of 50 million leones ($6,710) for sex trafficking. In addition, two other laws prescribe penalties for sex trafficking offenses that differ from the anti-trafficking law. The Child Rights Act imposes a penalty for the prostitution of a child by a third party of 30 million leones ($4,030) and/or two years imprisonment, which is neither sufficiently stringent nor commensurate with penalties for rape. The Sexual Offences Act criminalizes forced prostitution and child prostitution with penalties of up to 15 years imprisonment.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Sierra Leone as a 'Tier 2 Watch List' country.\n"}
{"id": "23720130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23720130", "title": "RTÉ Board", "text": "RTÉ Board\n\nThe RTÉ Board is an eight-member body which makes policy and guiding corporate direction for RTÉ, Ireland's state public broadcaster.\n\nThe Board, then known as the RTÉ Authority, was established as the Radio Éireann Authority under the Broadcasting Authority Act 1960. The Authority is actually the legal entity known as \"Radio Telefís Éireann\" and the body which has legal responsibility to run the services authorised under the Broadcasting Authority Acts 1960-2002. However, in reality actual management of the services is delegated to the Director-General and the staff of the Authority who together comprise RTÉ. The Authority met monthly and acted as RTÉ's board of directors, making general policy and overseeing the operations of RTÉ on a non-executive basis.\n\nThe RTÉ Authority was appointed by the Minister for Communications, Energy and Natural Resources. The RTÉ Executive reported to the Authority via the Director-General.\n\nUnder the Broadcasting Act 2009, the RTÉ Authority lost the \"Authority\" moniker and is simply referred to as the Board, and loses its self-regulatory function to the Broadcasting Authority of Ireland. The Board consists of 12 members - six nominated by the Minister, four nominated by the Minister on the advice of the Houses of the Oireachtas Joint Committee with responsibility for broadcasting, one worker director and the Director-General. \n\nA new Authority, the final authority, was appointed on 24 February 2009 on a six-month interim basis, until the 2008 Bill was enacted.. The new Board of RTÉ and the four nominees of the Joint Committee with responsibility for broadcasting for the Broadcasting Authority of Ireland members will be appointed in early 2010 by the Minister for Communications, Energy and Natural Resources. The RTÉ Executive would now report to the board.\n\n"}
{"id": "25042332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25042332", "title": "Ranked lists of Chilean regions", "text": "Ranked lists of Chilean regions\n\nThis article includes several ranked indicators for Chile's regions.\n\nChilean regions by area.\n<br>\n\nChilean regions by population as of June 30, 2015.\n\nChilean regions by their urban and rural population as of June 30, 2010.\n\nChilean regions by population density as of 2010.\n<br>\n\nChilean regions by number of households and household size in 2013.\n<br>\n\nChilean regions by persons self-identifying as belonging to one of Chile's indigenous groups in 2013.\n<br>\n\nChilean regions by number of foreign nationals and country/area of citizenship in 2017.\n\nChilean regions by their 2014 regional gross domestic product at purchasing power parity in billions of 2014 international dollars.\n<br>\n\nChilean regions by their 2014 regional gross domestic product per capita at purchasing power parity in 2014 international dollars.\n\nChilean regions by their principal economic activity in 2014.\n\nChilean regions by their average annual net salary in 2014 in international dollars.\n\nChilean regions by their annual household income per capita in international dollars in 2013.\n\nChilean regions by their household income inequality in 2013 as measured by the Gini coefficient.\n\nChilean regions by percentage of the regional population living below the national poverty line.\n<br>\n\nChilean regions by percentage of regional population living below 40%, 50% and 60% of regional median equivalised income. Data are for 2011.\n<br>\n\nChilean regions by the average lifespan (age of death) in years in 2002. This should not be confused with life expectancy.\n\nChilean regions by life expectancy at birth, by sex, in 2015.\n\nChilean regions by literacy rate in persons over 15 years of age.\n\nChilean regions by the average years of school completed successfully in persons over 15 years of age in 2011.\n\nChilean regions by highest level of educational attainment in persons over 15 years of age in 2011.\n\nChilean regions by net enrollment ratio in education in 2011.\n<br>\n\nChilean regions by gross enrollment ratio in education in 2011.\n<br>\n\nChilean regions by population living in homes with access to drinking water in 2011, by source.\n\nChilean regions by population living in homes with access to house sewage treatment in 2011, by type.\n\nChilean regions by population living in homes with access to electricity in 2011, by source.\n\nChilean regions by percentage of households owning at least one car, an automatic washing machine, a refrigerator, a water heater, a fixed telephone line, a mobile phone and subscribed to cable/satellite television in 2011.\n<br>\n\nChilean regions by personal computer ownership and Internet access in 2011.\n\nAlthough only households with personal computers were asked if they had Internet access, the percentages shown here for both indicators are in relation to the total households in each region.\n<br>\n\nChilean regions by population over the age of 15 owning a mobile phone in 2011.\n\nChilean regions by population registered to vote in the 28 October 2012 municipal election as of 30 June 2012 (registration deadline). Please note that Chileans born in Chile are automatically enrolled.\n<br>\n\nChilean regions by prison inmates and incarceration rate as of November 30, 2010.\n<br>\n\nChilean regions by their human development index. This is an HDI constructed for Chile and it is not comparable to HDIs for other countries.\n\nChilean regions by their human development index, using the latest available data. This HDI has been calculated using the same formulae used by the UNDP for its world Human Development Report up until its 2009 report, and as such it is internationally comparable to HDI's calculated before 2009, but does not correspond to contemporary HDI reports.\n\nChilean regions by their population living in cities (\"ciudades\"), towns (\"pueblos\"), villages (\"aldeas\") and hamlets (\"caseríos\"), according to the 2002 census.\n\nLargest cities within a region, according to the 2002 census. In all regions, the largest city is also the regional capital.\n"}
{"id": "3683410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3683410", "title": "Rebecca MacKinnon", "text": "Rebecca MacKinnon\n\nRebecca MacKinnon (born September 16, 1969) is an author, researcher, Internet freedom advocate, and co-founder of the citizen media network Global Voices Online. She is notable as a former CNN journalist who headed the CNN bureaus in Beijing and later in Tokyo. She is on the Board of Directors of the Committee to Protect Journalists, a founding board member of the Global Network Initiative and is currently director of the Ranking Digital Rights project at the New America Foundation's Open Technology Institute.\n\nRebecca MacKinnon was born in Berkeley, California. When she was three years old, MacKinnon's family moved to Tempe, Arizona, where her father Stephen R. MacKinnon took a job as Professor of Chinese History at Arizona State University. Her parents' academic research careers led her to pass most of her primary school years in Delhi, India, Hong Kong, and Beijing, China, before moving back to Arizona for middle and high school. She graduated from Tempe High in 1987.\n\nShe graduated magna cum laude from Harvard University in 1991 with a B.A. in Government. After graduating, she served as a Fulbright scholar in Taiwan, where she also worked as a \"Newsweek\" stringer.\n\nMacKinnon joined CNN in 1992 as Beijing Bureau Assistant and moved up to Producer/Correspondent by 1997 and Bureau Chief by 1998. In 2001 she became Tokyo Bureau Chief. During her time with CNN, she interviewed notable leaders including Junichiro Koizumi, Dalai Lama, Pervez Musharraf, and Mohammad Khatami.\n\nIn the spring of 2004, MacKinnon was a fellow of the Joan Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. That summer, she joined Harvard Law School's Berkman Center for Internet & Society as a Research Fellow, where she remained until December 2006. Among her projects at the Berkman Center, MacKinnon founded Global Voices Online in collaboration with Ethan Zuckerman.\n\nIn January 2007 she joined the Journalism and Media Studies Center at the University of Hong Kong, where she remained until January 2009. From February 2009 to January 2010, she conducted research as an Open Society Fellow, funded by George Soros' Open Society Institute. Then in February 2010 she joined Princeton University's Center for Information Technology Policy where she is a visiting fellow, working on a book about the future of freedom in the Internet age. Regarding the Middle East, MacKinnon wrote that \"the Internet empowers people and helps to bring about the peaceful changes associated with the Arab Spring\".\n\nIn September 2010, MacKinnon became a Bernard L. Schwartz fellow at the New America Foundation. She is currently Director of the think tank's Ranking Digital Rights project developing a methodology to rank Internet, telecommunications, and other ICT sector companies on free expression and privacy criteria.\n\nIn January 2007, she joined the inaugural Wikimedia Foundation Advisory Board.\n\nMacKinnon's first book, \"\", was published by Basic Books in January 2012 and won the Goldsmith Book Prize. In an interview, she said that she argues in the book (among other things) that:\n\nMackinnon's websites:\n\nOrganizations:\n"}
{"id": "1844757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844757", "title": "Seal hunting", "text": "Seal hunting\n\nSeal hunting, or sealing, is the personal or commercial hunting of seals. Seal hunting is currently practiced in nine countries and one region of Denmark: United States (above the Arctic Circle in Alaska), Canada, Namibia, Iceland, Norway, Russia, Finland, Sweden, and Greenland. Most of the world's seal hunting takes place in Canada and Greenland. \n\nThe Canadian Department of Fisheries and Oceans (DFO) regulates the seal hunt in Canada. It sets quotas (total allowable catch – TAC), monitors the hunt, studies the seal population, works with the Canadian Sealers' Association to train sealers on new regulations, and promotes sealing through its website and spokespeople. The DFO set harvest quotas of over 90,000 seals in 2007; 275,000 in 2008; 280,000 in 2009; and 330,000 in 2010. The actual kills in recent years have been less than the quotas: 82,800 in 2007; 217,800 in 2008; 72,400 in 2009; and 67,000 in 2010.\n\nIn 2007, Norway claimed that 29,000 harp seals were killed, Russia claimed that 5,479 seals were killed, and Greenland claimed that 90,000 seals were killed in their respective seal hunts.\n\nHarp seal populations in the northwest Atlantic declined to approximately 2 million in the late 1960s as a result of Canada's annual kill rates, which averaged to over 291,000 from 1952 to 1970. Conservationists demanded reduced rates of killing and stronger regulations to avert the extinction of the harp seal. In 1971, the Canadian government responded by instituting a quota system. The system was competitive, with each boat catching as many seals as it could before the hunt closed, which the Department of Fisheries and Oceans did when they knew that year's quota had been reached. Because it was thought that the competitive element might cause sealers to cut corners, new regulations were introduced that limited the catch to 400 seals per day, and 2000 per boat total. A 2007 population survey conducted by the DFO estimated the population at 5.5 million. \n\nIt is illegal in Canada to hunt newborn harp seals (whitecoats) and young hooded seals (bluebacks). When the seal pups begin to molt their downy white fur at the age of 12–14 days, they are called \"ragged-jacket\" and can be commercially hunted. After molting, the seals are called \"beaters\", named for the way they beat the water with their flippers. The hunt remains highly controversial, attracting significant media coverage and protests each year. Images from past hunts have become iconic symbols for conservation, animal welfare, and animal rights advocates. In 2009, Russia banned the hunting of harp seals less than one year old.\n\nThe term seal is used to refer to a diverse group of animals. In science, they are grouped together in the Pinnipeds, which also includes the walrus, not popularly thought of as a seal, and not considered here. The two main families of seals are the Otariidae (the eared seals; includes sea lions, and fur seals), and Phocidae (the earless seals); animals in the family Phocidae are sometimes referred to as hair seals, and are much more adept in the water than the eared seals, though they have a more difficult time getting around on land. The fur seal yields a valuable fur; the hair seal has no fur, but oil can be obtained from its fat and leather from its hide.\nSeals have been used for their pelts, their flesh, and their fat, which was often used as lamp fuel, lubricants, cooking oil, a constituent of soap, the liquid base for red ochre paint, and for processing materials such as leather and jute.\n\nArcheological evidence indicates the Native Americans and First Nations People in Canada have been hunting seals for at least 4,000 years. Traditionally, when an Inuit boy killed his first seal or caribou, a feast was held. The meat was an important source of fat, protein, vitamin A, vitamin B and iron, and the pelts were prized for their warmth. The Inuit diet is rich in fish, whale, and seal.\n\nThere were approximately 150,000 circumpolar Inuit in 2005 in Greenland, Alaska, Russia, and Canada. According to Kirt Ejesiak, former secretary and chief of staff to then-Premier of Nunavut, Paul Okalik and the first Inuk from Nunavut to attend Harvard, for the c. 46,000 Canadian Inuit, the seal was not \"just a source of cash through fur sales, but the keystone of their culture. Although Inuit harvest and hunt many species that inhabit the desert tundra and ice platforms, the seal is their mainstay. The Inuktitut vocabulary designates specific objects made from seal bone, sinew, fat and fur used as tools, games, thread, cords, fuel, clothing, boats, and tents. There are also words referring to seasons, topography, place names, legends, and kinship relationships based on the seal. One region of Canada's north is inhabited by the \"Netsilingmiut\", or \"people of the seal.\" The title of Ejesiak's article acknowledged the pivotal 1991 publication entitled \"Animal Rights, Human Rights\" by George Wenzel, a McGill University geographer and anthropologist who worked more than two decades with the Clyde Inuit of Baffin Island. Wenzel's \"scholarly examination\" of \"the impact of the animal rights movement upon the culture and economy of the Canadian Inuit\" was among the first to reveal how animal rights groups, \"well-meaning people in the dominant society through misunderstanding and ignorance can inflict destruction\" on a vulnerable minority.\n\nInuit seal hunting accounts for the majority of the seal hunt, but just three percent of the hunt in southern Canada; it is excluded from the European Commission's call in 2006 for a ban on the import, export and sale of all harp and hooded seal products. Ringed seals were once the main staple for food, and have been used for clothing, boots, fuel for lamps, as delicacy, containers, igloo windows, and in harnesses for huskies. Though no longer used to this extent, ringed seals are still an important food and clothing source for the people of Nunavut. Called \"nayiq\" by the Central Alaskan Yup'ik people, the ringed seal is also hunted and eaten in Alaska.\n\nSeals were also hunted in northwest Europe and the Baltic Sea more than 10,000 years ago.\n\nThe first commercial hunting of seals by Europeans, is said to have occurred in 1515, when a cargo of fur seal skins from Uruguay was sent to Spain for sale in the markets of Seville.\n\nNewfoundland and Labrador and the Gulf of St. Lawrence were the first regions to experience large scale sealing. Migratory fishermen began the hunting from as early as the 1500s. Large-scale commercial seal hunting became an annual event starting in 1723 and expanded rapidly near the turn of the 18th century. Initially, the method used was to ensnare the migrating seals in nets anchored to shore installations, known as the 'landsman seal fishery'. The hunt was mainly for the procurement of seal meat as a form of sustenance for the settlements in the area, rather than for commercial gain.\n\nFrom the early 18th century English hunters began to range further afield - 1723 marked the first time that hunters armed with firearms ventured forth in boats to increase their haul. This soon became a sophisticated commercial operation; the seals were transported back to England, where the seal's meat, fur and oil were sold separately. From 1749, the import of seal oil to England was being recorded annually, and was used as a lighting oil, for cooking, in the manufacture of soap and for the treating of leather.\n\nIt was in the South Seas that sealing became a major enterprise from the late 18th century. Samuel Enderby, along with Alexander Champion and John St Barbe organized the first commercial expedition to the South Atlantic Ocean in 1776, initially with the primary aim of whaling, although sealing began to play a prominent part in the operation as well. More expeditions were sent in 1777 and 1778 before political and economic troubles hampered the trade for some time.\n\nOn 1 September 1788, the 270 ton ship \"Emilia\", owned by Samuel Enderby & Sons and commanded by Captain James Shields, departed London. The ship went west around Cape Horn into the Pacific Ocean to become the first ship of any nation to conduct operations in the Southern Ocean. \"Emilia\" returned to London on 12 March 1790 with a cargo of 139 tons of sperm oil.\n\nBy 1784, the British had fifteen ships in the southern fishery, all from London. By 1790 this port alone had sixty vessels employed in the trade. Between 1793 and 1799 there was an average of sixty vessels in the trade. The average increased to seventy-two in the years between 1800 and 1809.\nThe sealing industry extended further south to the South Georgia island, first mapped by Captain James Cook in on 17 January 1775. During the late 18th century and throughout the 19th century, South Georgia was inhabited by English and Yankee sealers, who used to live there for considerable periods of time and sometimes overwintered. In 1778, English sealers brought back from the Island of South Georgia and the Magellan Strait area as many as 40,000 seal skins and 2,800 tons of elephant seal oil. More fur seals from the island were taken in 1786 by the English sealing vessel \"Lord Hawkesbury\", and by 1791, 102 vessels, manned by 3000 sealers, were hunting seals south of the equator. The first commercial visit to the South Sandwich Islands was made in 1816 by another English ship, the \"Ann\".\n\nThe sealers pursued their trade in a most unsustainable manner, promptly reducing the fur seal population to near extermination. As a result, sealing activities on South Georgia had three marked peaks in 1786–1802, 1814–23, and 1869–1913 respectively, decreasing in between and gradually shifting to elephant seals taken for oil.\n\nCommercial sealing in Australasia appears to have started with the London-based Massachusetts-born Eber Bunker, master of the \"William and Ann\", who announced his intention in November 1791 to visit and hunt in New Zealand's Dusky Sound. Captain William Raven of the \"Britannia\" stationed a party at Dusky from 1792 to 1793, but the discovery in 1798-1799 of Bass Strait, between mainland Australia and Van Diemen's Land (later known as Tasmania) saw the sealers' focus shift there in 1798, when a gang including Daniel Cooper landed from the \"Nautilus\" on Cape Barren Island.\n\nWith Bass Strait over-exploited by 1802, commercial attention returned to southern New Zealand waters, where Stewart Island/Rakiura and Foveaux Strait were explored, exploited and charted from 1803 to 1804. Thereafter, the sealing-industry focus shifted to the sub-Antarctic Antipodes Islands, 1805–1807, the Auckland Islands from 1806, the southeast coast of New Zealand's South Island, Otago Harbour and Solander Island by 1809, before focusing further to the south at the newly discovered Campbell Island (discovered in January 1810) and Macquarie Island (discovered in July 1810) from 1810. During this period sealers were active on the southern coast of mainland Australia, for example at Kangaroo Island. This whole development has been called the first sealing boom; it sparked the Sealers' War (1810- ) in southern New Zealand.\n\nBy about 1815 sealing in the Pacific had faded in importance. A brief revival occurred from 1823, but this proved very short-lived. Although highly profitable at times and affording New South Wales one of its earliest trade staples, sealing's unregulated character saw its self-destruction. Notable traders from Britain and based in Australia included Simeon Lord, Henry Kable, James Underwood and Robert Campbell. Plummers of London and the Whitneys of New York also became involved.\n\nBy 1830 most Pacific seal stocks had been seriously depleted, and Lloyd's Register of Shipping only showed one full-time sealing vessel on its books. In the North Pacific, the later 1800s saw large harvests of fur seals. These harvests decreased along with fur-seal populations.\n\nGrowing from the international Grand Banks fishery, the Newfoundland hunt initially used small schooners. Kill rates averaged 451,000 in the 1830s, and rose to 546,000 annually during the first half of the next decade, which led to a marked decline in the harp seal population that in turn adversely impacted profits in the sealing industry.\n\nSealing reached its peak in Newfoundland in the 1860s, with the introduction of more powerful and reliable steamships that were capable of much larger range and storing capacity. Annual catches exceeded the 400,000 mark from the 1870s and smaller sealers were steadily pushed out of the market.\n\nThe first modern sealing ship was the SS \"Bear\", built in Dundee, Scotland in 1874 as a steamer for sealing. The ship was custom-built for sealing out of St. John's, Newfoundland, and was the most outstanding sealing vessel of her day and the lead ship in a new generation of sealers. Heavy-built with six inch (15.2 cm) thick wooden planks, \"Bear\" was rigged as a sailing barquentine but her main power was a steam engine designed to smash deep into ice packs to reach seal herds.\nAt the time of her arrival in St. John's, there were 300 vessels outfitted each season to hunt seals, but most were small schooners or old sailing barques. The new sealing ships represented by \"Bear\" radically transformed the Eastern North Atlantic seal fishery as they replaced the hundreds of smaller sealing vessels owned by merchants in outports around Newfoundland with large and expensive steamships owned by large British and Newfoundland companies based in St. John's. Owned at first by the Scottish firm W. Grieve and Sons, she was acquired in 1880 by R. Steele Junior.\n\nAnother famous sealing ship of the era was the \"Terra Nova\", originally built in 1884 for the Dundee whaling and sealing fleet. She was ideally suited to the polar regions and worked for 10 years in the annual seal fishery in the Labrador Sea. Large and expensive ships required major capital investments from British and Newfoundland firms, and shifted the industry from merchants in small outports to companies based in St. John's, Newfoundland. By the late 19th century, the sealing industry in Newfoundland was second in importance only to cod fishing.\n\nThe seal hunt provided critical winter wages for fishermen, but was dangerous work marked by sealing disasters that claimed hundreds of lives, such as the 1914 Newfoundland Sealing Disaster involving the SS \"Southern Cross\", the SS \"Newfoundland\", and SS \"Stephano\". The rugged hulls and experienced crews of Newfoundland sealing vessels often led sealers such as \"Bear\" and \"Terra Nova\" to be hired for arctic exploration and one sealer \"Algerine\" was hired to recover \"Titanic\" bodies in 1912. After World War II, the Newfoundland hunt was dominated by large Norwegian sealing vessels until the late 20th century, when the much diminished hunt shifted to smaller motor fishing vessels, based from outports around Newfoundland and Labrador. In 2007, the commercial seal hunt dividend contributed about $6 million to the Newfoundland GDP, a fraction of the industry's former importance.\n\nThe end of the 19th century was marked by the Bering Sea Controversy between the United States and Great Britain over the management of fur seal harvests. In 1867 the United States government purchased from Russia all her territorial rights in Alaska and the adjacent islands, including the Pribilof Islands, the principal breeding-grounds of the seals in those seas. By Acts of Congress, the killing of seals was strictly regulated on the Pribiloff islands and in \"the waters adjacent thereto\". Beginning in about 1886, it became the practice of certain British and Canadian vessels to intercept passing seals in the open ocean (over three miles from any shore) and shoot them in the water (pelagic sealing). In the summer of 1886, three British Columbian sealers, the \"Carolena\", \"Onward\", and \"Thornton\", were captured by an American revenue cutter, the \"Corwin\", The United States claimed exclusive jurisdiction over the sealing industry in the Bering Sea; it also contended that the protection of the fur seal was an international duty, and should be secured by international arrangement. The British imperial government repudiated the claim, but was willing to negotiate on the question of international regulation.\nThe issue was taken to arbitration, which concluded in favour of Britain on all points in 1893. Since the decision was in favor of Great Britain, in accordance with the arbitration treaty the tribunal prescribed a series of regulations for preserving the seal herds which were to be binding upon and enforced by both powers. They limited pelagic sealing as to time, place, and manner by fixing a zone of 60 miles around the Pribilof Islands within which the seals were not to be molested at any time, and from May 1 to July 31 each year they were not to be pursued anywhere in Bering Sea. Only licensed sailing vessels were permitted to engage in fur sealing, and the use of firearms or explosives was prohibited.\n\nThis marked the first attempt at establishing regulations on the sealing industry for environmental purposes. However, these regulations failed because the mother seals fed outside the protected area and remained vulnerable. A joint commission of scientists from Britain and the United States further considered the problem, and came to the conclusion that the pelagic sealing needed to be curtailed. However further joint tribunals did not enact new legal restrictions, and then Japan also embarked upon pelagic sealing.\n\nFinally, the North Pacific Fur Seal Convention severely curtailed the sealing industry. Signed on July 7, 1911 by the United States, Great Britain, Japan, and Russia, the treaty was designed to manage the commercial harvest of fur bearing mammals. It outlawed open-water seal hunting and acknowledged the United States' jurisdiction in managing the on-shore hunting of seals for commercial purposes. It was the first international treaty to address wildlife preservation issues.\n\nThe treaty was dissolved with the onset of hostilities between the signatories in World War II. However, the treaty set precedent for future national and international laws and treaties, including the Fur Seal Act of 1966 and the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972.\n\nToday, commercial sealing is conducted by only five nations: Canada, Greenland, Namibia, Norway, and Russia. The United States, which had been heavily involved in the sealing industry, now maintains a complete ban on the commercial hunting of marine mammals, with the exception of indigenous peoples who are allowed to hunt a small number of seals each year.\n\nIn the Canadian commercial seal hunt, the majority of the hunters initiate the kill using a firearm. Ninety percent of sealers on the ice floes of the Front (east of Newfoundland), where the majority of non-native seal hunting occurs, use firearms.\n\nAn older and more traditional method of killing seals is with a \"hakapik\": a heavy wooden club with a hammer head and metal hook on the end. The \"hakapik\" is used because of its efficiency; the animal can be killed quickly without damage to its pelt. The hammer head is used to crush the seals' thin skulls, while the hook is used to move the carcasses.\nCanadian sealing regulations describe the dimensions of the clubs and the \"hakapiks\", and caliber of the rifles and minimum bullet velocity, that can be used. They state: \"Every person who strikes a seal with a club or hakapik shall strike the seal on the forehead until its skull has been crushed,\" and that \"No person shall commence to skin or bleed a seal until the seal is dead,\" which occurs when it \"has a glassy-eyed, staring appearance and exhibits no blinking reflex when its eye is touched while it is in a relaxed condition.\"\nReportedly, in one study, three out of eight times, the animal was not rendered either dead or unconscious by shooting, and the hunters would then kill the seal using a hakapik or other club of a type that is sanctioned by the governing authority.\n\nSeal skins have been used by aboriginal people for millennia to make waterproof jackets and boots, and seal fur to make fur coats. Pelts account for over half the processed value of a seal, selling at over C$100 each as of 2006. According to Paul Christian Rieber, of GC Rieber AS, the difficult ice conditions and low quotas in 2006 resulted in less access to seal pelts, which caused the commodity price to be pushed up. One high-end fashion designer, Donatella Versace, has begun to use seal pelts, while others, such as Calvin Klein, Stella McCartney, Tommy Hilfiger, and Ralph Lauren, refrain from using any kind of fur.\n\nSeal meat is an important source of food for residents of small coastal communities. Meat is sold to the Asian pet food market; in 2004, only Taiwan and South Korea purchased seal meat from Canada. The seal blubber is used to make seal oil, which is marketed as a fish oil supplement. In 2001, two percent of Canada's raw seal oil was processed and sold in Canadian health stores. There has been virtually no market for seal organs since 1998.\n\nIn 2005, three companies exported seal skin: Rieber in Norway, Atlantic Marine in Canada and Great Greenland in Greenland. Their clients were earlier French fashion houses and fur makers in Europe, but today the fur is mainly exported to Russia and China.\n\nIn Canada, the season for the commercial hunt of harp seal is from November 15 to May 15. While Inuit hunt seals commercially year-round, most sealing in southern Canada occurs in late March in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, and during the first or second week of April off Newfoundland, in an area known as the Front. This peak spring period is often mistakenly referred to as the \"Canadian Seal Hunt\", when in fact seal hunting also happens throughout the year all over the Canadian Arctic.\n\nIn 2003, the three-year harp seal quota granted by Fisheries and Oceans Canada was increased to a maximum of 975,000 animals per three years, with a maximum of 350,000 animals in any two consecutive years. In 2006, 325,000 harp seals, as well as 10,000 hooded seals and 10,400 grey seals were killed. An additional 10,000 animals were allocated for hunting by aboriginal peoples. As of 2012, the population in Canada of the Northwest Atlantic harp seals is approximately 7.3 million animals, over three times what it was in the 1970s.\n\nAlthough around 70% of Canadian seals killed are taken on the Front, private monitors focus on the St. Lawrence hunt, because of its more convenient location. The 2006 St. Lawrence leg of the hunt was officially closed on Apr. 3, 2006; sealers had already exceeded the quota by 1,000 animals. On March 26, 2007, the Newfoundland and Labrador government launched a seal hunt website to counter \"misinformation about the sealing industry that is [published] by international animal rights organizations\".\n\nWarm winters in the Gulf of Saint Lawrence have led to thinner and more unstable ice there. In 2007, Canada's federal fisheries ministry reported that while the pups are born on the ice as usual, the ice floes have started to break up before the pups learn to swim, causing the pups to drown. Canada reduced the 2007 quota by 20%, because overflights showed large numbers of seal pups were lost to thin and melting ice. In southern Labrador and off Newfoundland's northeast coast, however, there was extra heavy ice in 2007, and the coast guard estimated as many as 100 vessels were trapped in ice simultaneously.\n\nThe 2010 hunt was cut short because demand for seal pelts was down. Only one local pelt buyer, NuTan Furs, offered to purchase pelts; and it committed to purchase less than 15,000 pelts. Pelt prices were about C$21/pelt in 2010, which is about twice the 2009 price and about 64% of the 2007 price. The reduced demand is attributable mainly to the 2009 ban on imports of seal products into the European Union.\n\nThe 2010 winter was unusually warm, with little ice forming in the Gulf of St. Lawrence in February and March, when harp seals give birth to their pups on ice floes. Around the Gulf, harp seals arrived in late winter to give birth on near-shore ice and even on beaches rather than on their usual whelping grounds: sturdy sea ice. Also, seal pups born elsewhere began floating to shore on small, shrinking pieces of ice. Many others stayed too far north, out of reach of all but the most determined hunters. Environment Canada, the weather forecasting agency, reported the ice was at the lowest level on record.\n\nThe Fisheries Act established \"Seal Protection Regulations\" in the mid-1960s. The regulations were combined with other Canadian marine mammals regulations in 1993, to form the \"Marine Mammal Regulations\". In addition to describing the use of the rifle and \"hakapik\", the regulations state every person \"who fishes for seals for personal or commercial use shall land the pelt or the carcass of the seal.\" The commercial hunting of infant harp seals (whitecoats) and infant hooded seals (bluebacks) was banned in 1987 under pressure from animal rights groups. Now, seals may only be killed once they have started molting (from 12 to 15 days of age), as this coincides with the time when they are abandoned by their mothers.\n\nCanada's biggest market for seal pelts is Norway. Carino Limited is one of Newfoundland's largest seal pelt producers. Carino (CAnada–RIeber–NOrway) is marketing its seal pelts mainly through its parent company, GC Rieber Skinn, Bergen, Norway. Canada sold pelts to eleven countries in 2004. The next largest were Germany, Greenland, and China/Hong Kong. Other importers were Finland, Denmark, France, Greece, South Korea, and Russia. Asia remains the principal market for seal meat exports. One of Canada's market access priorities for 2002 was to \"continue to press Korean authorities to obtain the necessary approvals for the sale of seal meat for human consumption in Korea.\" Canadian and Korean officials agreed in 2003 on specific Korean import requirements for seal meat. For 2004, only Taiwan and South Korea purchased seal meat from Canada.\n\nCanadian seal product exports reached C$18 million in 2006. Of this, C$5.4 million went to the EU. In 2009, the European Union banned all seal imports, shrinking the market. Where pelts once sold for more than $100, they now fetch $8 to $15 each.\n\nAlthough the government of Greenland states that approximately 170,000 seals are killed in Greenland annually, the Government of Canada estimates the kill to be 20,000 to 25,000. In January 2006, the government of Greenland banned imports of Canadian seal skins, citing fears Canadian seals are brutally beaten to death. The boycott may be an effort to distance Greenland's own seal hunt from Canada's, and spare themselves negative press in the process. The ban was rescinded in May 2006, with the Greenland Home Rule Government noting the seal hunt in Canada has sensible regulations on hunting methods, drawn up in close cooperation with biologists, veterinarians, weapons experts and seal hunters. It further noted seal-hunting in Canada is subject to strict and extensive control measures, to ensure the use of effective and humane killing methods.\n\nIn Greenland, seal hunting is conducted with rifles – the seals are shot in the head from a small open boat while they sit on an ice floe. The boat rushes up to the seal and hooks the carcass out of the water (where it falls within a few seconds) before it sinks. The economy of certain rural Greenlandic villages, such as Aappilattoq, are highly dependent upon such seal hunting.\n\nNamibia is the only country in the Southern Hemisphere culling seals. Although the protection and the sustainable use of natural resources is part of Namibia's constitution, it claims to conduct the second largest seal harvest in the world, mainly because of the huge amount of fish seals are estimated to consume. While a government-initiated study found seal colonies consume more fish than the entire fishing industry can catch, animal protection society Seal Alert South Africa estimated less than 0.3% losses to commercial fisheries.\n\nHarvesting is done from July to November on two places, Cape Cross and Atlas Bay, and in the past at Wolf Bay. These two colonies together account for 75% of the cape fur seal population of the country.\n\nCape Cross is a tourism resort and the largest cape fur colony in Namibia. The Department of Tourism has stated that \"Cape Cross Seal Reserve was established to protect the largest breeding colony of Cape fur seals in the world\". In season, the resort is closed and sealed off during the culling in the early morning hours, journalists are not allowed to enter. Namibia’s SPCA is allowed to observe the culling from 2010 onwards.\n\nNamibia's Ministry of Fisheries announced a three-year rolling quota for the seal harvest, although different quotas per year are sometimes reported. The quota announced was in 2009, valid until 2011. The quotas are usually not filled by the concession holders.\n\nIn 2009, an unusual bid to end seal culling in Namibia was attempted when Seal Alert tried to raise money to purchase the only buyer of Namibian seals, Australian-based Hatem Yavuz, lock, stock, and barrel for US$14.2 million. The project did not materialise. Also, the Government of Namibia offered the International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW) an opportunity to buy out the two sealers in Namibia to finally end the culling. The offer was rejected.\n\nIn 2011, South African activists launched a boycott of Namibian tourism and Namibian products in response to the cull.\n\nThe Norwegian sealing season runs from January to September. The hunt involves \"seal catching\" by seagoing sealing boats on the Arctic ice shelf, and \"seal hunting\" on the coast and islands of mainland Norway. The latter is carried out by small groups of licensed hunters shooting seals from land and using small boats to retrieve the catch.\n\nIn 2005, Norway allowed foreign nationals to take part in the hunt. In 2006, 17,037 seals (including 13,390 harp and 3,647 hooded seals) were harvested. In 2007, the Norwegian Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs stated up to 13.5 million Norwegian krone (about US$2.6 million) would be given in funding to vessels in the 2007 Norwegian seal hunt.\n\nAll Norwegian sealing vessels are required to carry a qualified veterinary inspector on board. Norwegian sealers are required to pass a shooting test each year before the season starts, using the same weapon and ammunition as they would on the ice. Likewise, they have to pass a \"hakapik\" test.\n\nAdult seals more than one year old must be shot in the head with expanding bullets, and cannot be clubbed to death. The \"hakapik\" shall be used to ensure the animal is dead. This is done by crushing the skull of the shot adult seal with the short end of the \"hakapik\", before the long spike is thrust deep into the animal's brain. The seal is then bled by making an incision from its jaw to the end of its sternum. The killing and bleeding must be done on the ice, and live animals may never be brought on board the ship. Young seals may be killed using just the \"hakapik\", but only in the aforementioned manner, i.e., they need not be shot.\n\nSeals in the water and seals with young may not be killed, and the use of traps, artificial lighting, airplanes, or helicopters is forbidden.\n\nThe \"hakapik\" may only be used by certified seal-catchers (fangstmenn) operating in the pack ice of the Arctic Ocean and not by coastal seal hunters. All coastal seal hunters must be pre-approved by the Norwegian Directorate of Fisheries and have to pass a large game hunting test.\n\nIn 2007, the European Food Safety Agency confirmed the animals are put to death faster and more humanely in the Norwegian sealing than in large game hunting on land.\n\nIn Norway in 2004, only Rieber worked with sealskin and seal oil. In 2001, the biggest producer of raw seal oil was Canada (two percent of the raw oil was processed and sold in Canadian health stores). Rieber had the majority of all distribution of raw seal oil in the world market, but there was no demand for seal oil. From 1995 to 2005, Rieber annually received between 2 and 3 million Norwegian krone in subsidy. A 2003–2004 parliamentary report says CG Rieber Skinn is the only company in the world that delivers skin from bluebacks. Most of the skins processed by Rieber have been imported from abroad, mainly from Canada. Only a small portion is from the Norwegian hunt. Of the processed skin, five percent is sold in Norway; the rest is exported to the Russian and Asian markets.\n\nFortuna Oils AS (established in 2004) is a 100% owned subsidiary of GC Rieber. They get the majority of their raw oil imported from Canada. They also have access to raw oil from the Norwegian hunt.\n\nThe Russian seal hunt has not been well monitored since the breakup of the Soviet Union. The quota in 1998 was 35,000 animals. Reportedly, many whitecoat pups are not properly killed and are transported, while injured, to processing areas. In January 2000, a bill to ban seal hunting was passed by the Russian parliament by 273 votes to 1, but was vetoed by President Vladimir Putin.\n\nOn September 21, 2007 in Arkhangelsk, the Norwegian GC Rieber Skinn AS proposed a joint Russian–Norwegian seal hunting project. The campaign was carried out from one hunt boat supplied by GS Rieber Skinn AS in 2007, lasted two weeks, and brought in 40 000 roubles per Russian hunter. GS Rieber skinn AS declared a plan to order 20 boats and donate them to the Pomor. CG Rieber Skinn AS, in 2007, established a daughter company in Arkhangelsk, called GC Rieber Skinn Pomor'e Lic. (GC Rieber Skinn Pomorje).\n\nThe Norwegian company Polardrift AS, in 2007, had plans to establish a company in Russia, and operate under Russian flag, in close cooperation with GC Rieber Skinn Pomor'e.\n\nPlans for the 2008 season included both helicopter-based hunts, mainly to take whitecoats, and boat-based hunts, mainly targeting beaters.\n\nOn March 18, 2009, Russia's Minister of Natural Resources and Ecology, Yuriy Trutnev, announced a complete ban on the hunting of harp seals younger than one year of age in the White Sea.\n\nCanada has become the center of the sealing debate because of the comparatively large size of its hunt.\n\nAccording to a 2002 peer-reviewed study done by five Canadian veterinarians and funded by the Canadian Veterinary Medical Association (CVMA), \"the large majority of seals taken during this hunt (at best, 98% in work reported here) are killed in an acceptably humane manner.\" These veterinarians found, \"During the 2001 season in the Gulf, three (1.9%) of 158 seals brought on board of the sealing vessels and directly observed by Daoust had not been killed, and in one (0.86%) of 116 interactions between seals and sealers observed on videotapes by Daoust and Crook, the seal also did not appear to have been killed before being hooked and brought on board.\" They thus concluded, \"This small proportion of animals that are not killed efficiently justifies continued attention to this industry's activities, preferably by members of the veterinary profession, who are best equipped to assess the humaneness of the killing methods.\"\n\nIn observing four videos taken during the 2001 seal hunt in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, the authors of this report state, \"A large proportion (87%) of the sealers recorded on the four videotapes failed to palpate the skull or check the corneal reflex before proceeding to hook or bleed the seal or go to another seal.\"\n\nThe Royal Commission on Seals and the Sealing Industry in Canada, also known as the Malouf Commission, concluded in a 1986 report, \"Judged by the criteria of rapidity of unconsciousness and particularly the absence of preslaughter stress, the clubbing of seal pups is, when properly performed, at least as humane as, and often more humane than, the killing methods used in commercial slaughterhouses, which are accepted by a majority of the public.\"\n\nAccording to the (DFO), \"The Marine Mammal Regulations stipulate that seals must be harvested quickly using only high-powered rifles, shotguns firing slugs, clubs or hakapiks.\n\nHowever, the International Fund for Animal Welfare conducted a study that disputed these findings. This report concludes the Canadian commercial seal hunt results in considerable and unacceptable suffering.\n\nThe veterinarians examined 76 seal carcasses and found that in 17% of the cases, there were no detectable lesions of the skull, leading them to conclude the clubbing likely did not result in loss of consciousness. In 25% of the remaining cases, the carcasses had minimal to moderate skull fractures, indicative of a \"decreased level of consciousness\", but probably not unconsciousness. The remaining 58% of the carcasses examined showed extensive skull fractures.\n\nThis veterinary study included examination of video footage of 179 seals hunted in 1998, 1999, and 2000. In these videos, 96 seals were shot, 56 were shot and then clubbed or gaffed, 19 were clubbed or gaffed, and 8 were killed by unknown means. In 79% of these cases, sealers did not check the corneal reflex to ensure that the seals were dead prior to hooking or skinning them. In only 6% of these cases, seals were bled immediately, where struck. The average time from initial strike to bleeding was 66 seconds.\n\nIn 2005, IFAW published a comparison of the CVMA-funded study and its own study. In this critique, David M. Lavigne, Science Advisor to IFAW, writes, \"The Burdon et al. evidence cited above addresses the question of whether seals were likely conscious or unconscious at the time they were skinned, using post-mortem examination of skulls. In marked contrast, the figure cited from Daoust et al.'s report represents the number of seals clubbed or shot that were brought on board sealing vessels while still conscious. That number ignores any and all animal suffering that occurs between the time animals are clubbed or shot until they eventually reach a sealing vessel, usually on the end of a hook or gaff.\" Another difference between these reports is \"Daoust et al.'s direct observations were made under very different conditions than those provided by Burdon et al. Unlike Burdon et al.'s observations, they were made directly from sealing vessels so that the sealers were unavoidably aware that observers were present. As Daoust et al. (p 692) admit, the presence of an observer on a sealing vessel \"may have incited sealers to hit the seals skulls more vigorously\". Of course, the presence of an observer also has the potential to modify other sealing practices, including checking for a corneal reflex and bleeding animals immediately after clubbing.\"\n\nIn 2005, the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) commissioned the Independent Veterinarians Working Group Report. With reference to video evidence, the report states: \"Perception of the seal hunt seems to be based largely on emotion, and on visual images that are often difficult even for experienced observers to interpret with certainty. While a hakapik strike on the skull of a seal appears brutal, it is humane if it achieves rapid, irreversible loss of consciousness leading to death.\"\n\nIn 2013, the Canadian Department of Fisheries and Oceans conducted a population survey. The resulting estimate of the harp seal population was 7.3 million animals, over three times what it was in the 1970s. In 2004, the population estimate was similar: 5.9 million (95% CI 4.6 million to 7.2 million).\n\nPrior to the arrival of European settlers, a much larger population of harp seals migrated to the waters off Newfoundland and Labrador. Settlers began exploiting the population, with kills peaking in the middle of the 1800s. In the first half of the 1840s, 546,000 seals were killed annually. This led to a population decline that adversely affected the industry.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s an average of over 291,000 seal pups were killed each year. This led to a population decline to less than 2 million seals. Conservationists became alarmed and demanded controls on kill rates. Thus in 1971, Canada instituted a quota system. In the years from 1971 to 1982, an average of 165,627 seals were killed.\n\nIn 1983, the European Union banned the import of whitecoat harp seal pup pelts (pelts from pups less than about two weeks of age, when the pups molt). As a result, the market for pelts dropped. The kill rates thus declined in subsequent years to an average of about 52,000 seals from 1983 to 1995. During this time, the harp seal population increased.\n\nAfter the European Union's ban on whitecoat pelt imports, the Canadian government and sealing industry developed markets for the pelts of beaters. In 1996, the kill rates again increased to over 200,000 each year, except in the year 2000. In 2002 and 2004 to 2006, over 300,000 seal pups were killed each year.\n\nAs a result of population concerns, Norway's seal hunt is now controlled by quotas based on recommendations from International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES), However, sealing in Norway has declined in recent years, and the quotas have not been reached.\n\nIn addition to hunting pressures on the population of harp seals, as ice seals that are dependent on solid sea ice for whelping, the harp seal population is affected by global climate change. The lack of sea ice in recent years has resulted in the drowning deaths of tens of thousands of newborn harp seal pups.\n\nAnimal welfare advocates and organizations, such as PETA, object to the use of real fur when many synthetic \"faux fur\" alternatives are available.\n\nAccording to Canadian authorities, the value of the 2004 seal harvest was C$16.5 million, which significantly contributes to seal manufacturing companies, and for several thousand fishermen and First Nations peoples. For some sealers, they claim, proceeds from the hunt make up a third of their annual income. Critics, however, say this represents only a tiny fraction of the C$600-million Newfoundland fishing industry. Sealing opponents also say $16.5 million is insignificant, compared to the funding required to regulate and subsidize the hunt. For 1995 and 1996, there are confirmed reports Fisheries and Oceans Canada encouraged maximum utilization of harvested seals through a $0.20 per pound meat subsidy. The level of subsidy totaled $650,000 in 1997, $440,000 in 1998 and $250,000 in 1999. There were no meat subsidies in 2000. Some critics, such as the McCartneys (see below), have suggested promoting that area as an ecotourism site would be far more lucrative than the annual harvest.\n\nIn March 2005, Greenpeace asked the DFO to \"dispel the myth that seals are hampering the recovery of cod stocks.\" In doing so, they implied the seal hunt is, at least in part, a cull designed to increase cod stocks. Cod fishing has traditionally been a key part of the Atlantic fishery, and an important part of the economy of Newfoundland and Labrador. Fisheries and Oceans Canada responded there is no connection between the annual seal harvest and the cod fishery, and that the seal hunt is \"established on sound conservation principles.\"\n\nMany animal protection groups encourage people to petition against the harvest. Respect for Animals and Humane Society International believe the hunt will be ended only by the financial pressure of a boycott of Canadian seafood. In 2005, the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) called for such a boycott in the United States.\n\nProtesters frequently use images of whitecoats, despite Canada's ban on the commercial hunting of suckling pups. The HSUS explains this by saying images of the legally hunted ragged jackets are nearly indistinguishable from those of whitecoats. Also, they state, according to official DFO kill reports, 97% percent of the estimated million harp seals killed in the last four years have been under three months old, and the majority of these are less than one month old.\n\nOn March 26, 2006, seven antisealing activists were arrested in the Gulf of St. Lawrence for violating the terms of their observer permits. By law, observers must maintain a ten-meter distance between themselves and the sealers. Five of the protesters were later acquitted. In the same month, as part of a counterprotest, Newfoundland and Labrador Premier Danny Williams encouraged people in the province to boycott Costco after the retailer decided to stop carrying seal oil capsules. Costco stated politics played no role in their decision to remove the capsules, and on April 4 that year, they were again being sold in Costco stores.\n\nIn 2009, the European Union passed a law banning the promotion of imported seal products. The law was approved by the Council of the European Union without debate on July 27, 2009. Denmark, Romania, and Austria abstained. The Canadian government responded to the move by stating that it will take the European Union to the World Trade Organization if the ban does not exempt Canada. Canadian Inuit from the territory of Nunavut have opposed the ban and lobbied European Parliament members against it. Canadian seal hunting issues had been spotlighted in the months leading up to the 2010 Winter Olympics which were held in Vancouver.\n\nAn important distinction between the southern Canadian seal hunt and the Inuit Canadian hunt is that Canadian Inuit typically hunt ringed seals, while the southern Canadian hunt targets the pelt of the harp seal. Greenlandic Inuit hunt and eat both ringed and harp seals. Unfortunately, protests surrounding the southern seal hunt in Canada have historically damaged the financial well-being of both Canadian and Greenlandic Inuit more than it has the hunting of harp seals. Because of the strongly emotional nature of the protest, profits surrounding the Inuit hunting of ringed seal fall with any ban on any type of seal product, regardless of exemption. For example, in 1963, prices for high-quality pelts of ringed seals could reach above $20.00 each; these same pelts in 1967, the year of the first major protests, would only sell for $2.50 each, which threatened the survival of Inuit in many areas. Several protests in other years have resulted in similar decreases in price.\n\nNumerous celebrities have opposed the commercial seal hunt. Rex Murphy has reported celebrities have aided antihunt activists since the mid-20th century; Yvette Mimieux and Loretta Swit were recruited to attract the attention of international gossip magazines. Other celebrities who have aligned themselves against the hunt include Richard Dean Anderson, Kim Basinger, Juliette Binoche, Sir Paul McCartney, Heather Mills, Pamela Anderson, Martin Sheen, Pierce Brosnan, Morrissey, Paris Hilton, Robert Kennedy, Jr., Rutger Hauer, Brigitte Bardot, Ed Begley, Jr., Farley Mowat, Linda Blair, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, and Jackie Evancho.\n\nIn March 2006, Brigitte Bardot traveled to Ottawa to protest the hunt, though the prime minister turned down her request for a meeting. During the same month, Paul and Heather Mills McCartney toured the Gulf of Saint Lawrence's sealing grounds, and spoke out against the seal hunt, including as guests on Larry King Live, where the two debated with Danny Williams, the Premier of Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\nIn 1978, marine ecologist Jacques Cousteau criticized the seal hunt protest: \"The harp seal question is entirely emotional. We have to be logical. We have to aim our activity first to the endangered species. Those who are moved by the plight of the harp seal could also be moved by the plight of the pig – the way they are slaughtered is horrible.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5211747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5211747", "title": "Society of Fighters for Freedom and Democracy", "text": "Society of Fighters for Freedom and Democracy\n\nThe Society of Fighters for Freedom and Democracy (, ZBoWiD) was an official Polish state-controlled veterans association in the People's Republic of Poland. Initially headed by Franciszek Jóźwiak, it was formed on September 2, 1949 out of 11 pre-existing veterans associations. In its early period, and especially during the stalinist years, the organization was formed mostly of former veterans of the Soviet-sponsored Polish People's Army, communist partisans and former concentration camp inmates. However, with the advent of a partial political thaw in the 1960s it also started accepting the veterans of other Polish formations that had fought in World War II.\n\nDirectly subordinate to the party, the society held an important place within the Polish governmental structure: it was the only authority certifying veterans' and combatants' rights and privileges in Poland. In 1970 the ZBoWiD had roughly 330,000 members, in 1986 almost 800,000. Among its leaders were Mieczysław Moczar and Włodzimierz Sokorski.\n\nIn April 1990, ZBoWiD was reformed into the \"Związek Kombatantów RP i Byłych Więźniów Politycznych\" (\"Society of Veterans of the Republic of Poland and Former Political Prisoners\") for members of all Polish military formations including partisan, self-defence units, and the Polish Underground State.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20258900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20258900", "title": "The Commonwealth Club", "text": "The Commonwealth Club\n\nThe Commonwealth Club, is a private gentlemen's club in Richmond, Virginia, USA. Its present clubhouse was completed in 1891. The defining structure of the Commonwealth Club Historic District, it is located at 401 West Franklin Street. The Commonwealth Club is considered to be one of the finest pieces of architecture in Richmond and was a physical symbol of Richmond's New South movement.\n\nAfter an unsuccessful attempt to acquire plans from local firms, the Board of the Commonwealth Club looked outside of Richmond to develop a style that reflected the momentum of a more national architectural movement. The site proposed for the building, formerly the Palmer House, was located high above the street level. While the board desired a style broadly fashionable, they also desired the building to reflect Richmond as a southern city. The New York City based firm of Carrère and Hastings was chosen from a group of four firms.\n\nThe Commonwealth Club is a unique structure among Richmond buildings. Characterized by its deep red brick, brownstone trim and terra cotta cartouches, the building is a combination of Colonial revival and Richardsonian Romanesque styles. The Colonial revival tradition is reflected to promote a heritage for the future and the Richardsonian style reflected the ability of Richmonders to afford an architectural style fashionable on a national level. It is classified by the Virginia Department of Historic Resources as Italian Renaissance Revival.\n\n"}
{"id": "9313280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9313280", "title": "Three Whales Corruption Scandal", "text": "Three Whales Corruption Scandal\n\nThe Three Whales Corruption Scandal is a major corruption scandal in Russia involving several furniture companies and federal government bodies which has unfolded since 2000.\n\nThree Whales (Tri kita) is a Moscow furniture shopping complex owned by Sergei Zuev. On August 13, 2000, Russian Customs inspectors suspended it and seized a furniture consignment supplied by the companies Bastion and Liga Mars, as they allegedly had smuggled 400 tons of furniture into Russia, while Zuev had not paid $5 million of Customs duty by falsifying the price and weight of imported goods. On October 20, 2000, Captain Pavel Zaitsev filed a criminal case against Liga Mars initiated on September 7 by the Moscow Oblast Directorate of Internal Affairs.\n\nThe Customs inspectors revealed that the Three Whales shop was controlled by Yevgeny Zaostrovtsev, a former chief of now FSB Director Nikolai Patrushev and the father of FSB General Yury Zaostrovtsev which at that time was the Head of the Economic Security Department and a Deputy Director of FSB.\n\nIn November 2000, the Prosecutor General's Office under Vladimir Ustinov halted the investigation and confiscated files related to the case. In December 2000 it charged Captain Pavel Zaitsev with abuse of office and claimed that he allegedly had conducted 12 searches without a prosecutor sanction and had illegally detained two suspects. On September 5, 2002, the Moscow City Court found Zaitsev not guilty on the charges. Later the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation cancelled this decision, and on November 3, 2003 Pavel Zaitsev was sentenced by a Moscow court for two years on probation. Olga Kudeshkina, a judge that took part in the trial, on December 1, 2003, said she was pressured to convict him, but refused to do so. In 2004, Kudeshkina lost her job.\n\nOn May 7, 2001, First Deputy Prosecutor General Yury Biryukov citing lack of evidence signed a directive stopping the smuggling investigation.\n\nIn Autumn 2001 the Prosecutor General's Office also accused Chief of the Customs Investigation Directorate Marat Fayzulin and Chief of the Customs Inspection Alexander Volkov with abuse of office and extortion of money from Sergei Zuev and an associate of him. but on June 4, 2003 a Moscow court acquitted them.\n\nOn October 15, 2001, at a press conference the State Customs Committee claimed that it had discovered a smuggling network allegedly organized by Sergei Zuev. Customs officially charged him with custom duty evasion.\n\nThis situation as a whole was widely considered as an episode of the struggle between Boris Yeltsin's \"Family\" represented by the State Customs Committee chairman Mikhail Vanin, a close ally of Alexander Voloshin and Roman Abramovich, and security services personnel group, known as \"siloviki\". Vanin has apparently lost the battle, as he left his position in March 2004 during the government reshuffle initiated by Vladimir Putin, when the Customs Committee was included into the Economy Ministry of Russia.\n\nTwo deputies of the State Duma and members of the State Duma Security Committee, Yury Shchekochikhin, a journalist, and Alexander Gurov, Lieutenant General of Interior Affairs, launched a parliamentary inquiry into the case, approved by the State Duma on March 13, 2002.\nProsecutor General's Office rejected all the accusations of corruption, claiming that the investigation was closed for legitimate reasons. In April 2002 Shchekochikhin, Gurov, and Nikolay Kovalyov, another State Duma deputy and a former FSB head, asked Vladimir Putin to intervene. At last, the inquiry forced Prosecutor General's Office to resume investigation of the smuggling. A prosecutor from Leningrad Oblast, Vladimir Loskutov, was chosen by President Vladimir Putin personally to lead the investigation of this affair.\n\nEarlier that year on February 18, 2002, in Novaya Gazeta Shchekochikhin published a detailed article on the smuggling affair and corrupting officials in the Interior Ministry and the Prosecutor-General's Office. Immediately after this he received a death threat On June 2, 2003, in that newspaper he published another article where he accused Prosecutor's General Office and Biryukov personally in corruption:\n\nMr. Vorobiov, Head of Central Operative Customs, who initiated criminal case 27400-22/2000 after finding out about the fictitious Liga Mars company, was assaulted in February 2002.\n\nA logistic manager for the stores Grand and Three Whales, Mr. Polyakov, was attacked two weeks later.\n\nOne day later, an investigator for the Russian Customs Committee captain Yuhimenko who followed a lead received a head trauma. On the same day the car of Moscow region's Interior Ministry investigator Ms. Nenahova was bombed. Ms. Nenahova worked on the case 12707 against Liga Mars employees. Investigator Pavel Zaitsev and his family received numerous threats throughout the year.\n\nOn May 27, 2003, Mikhail Pereverzev, the president of the Furniture Importers Association and a key witness in the affair, was shot dead in a hospital.\n\nOn July 3, 2003, Yury Shchekochikhin died a few days after he had been hospitalized, according to the Russian officials, from a suddenly developed allergy of unknown origin, but his relatives were denied an official medical report about the cause of his illness, and were forbidden to take specimens of his tissues to conduct an independent medical investigation. The possibility that he could have been poisoned is widely considered. Shchekochikhin's colleague in the Duma, Aleksandr Gurov, was never asked to witness, according to Novaya Gazeta's chief editor Dmitry Muratov.\n\nAlso in 2003, Andrey Saenko, another key witness, was severely injured as a result of an assassination attempt.\n\nCustoms investigators Mikhail Vanin and Colonel General Boris Gutin lost their jobs in 2004.\n\nThe dismissal of Alexander Zherikhov, head of the Federal Custom Service, as well as some other FSB, Interior Ministry and Prosecutor General's Office officials in May 2006 is linked by many to the Three Whales scandal. On June 2, 2006 Prosecutor General of Russia Vladimir Ustinov, who had been in the office since 1999, resigned and became Justice Minister of Russia later that month. A major corruption scandal has unfolded unexpectedly and almost out of public sight. On June 14 Prosecutor General's Office under acting Prosecutor General Yury Chaika reported that it had reopened the furniture contraband investigation going back to 2000 and arrested Sergey Zuev, owner of the Three Whales and Grand furniture retail centers, Andrey Latushkin, Director General of the parent company Alliance-96, Andrey Saenko and two smugglers, Pavel Podsotsky and his wife Irina Podsotskaya, Moscow representatives of a Latvian firm, were arrested for smuggling and custom duty evasion. Later Yekaterina Leladze, Anatoly Melnichuk, founder of Liga Mars, Valery Belyakov and Pavel Polyakov (by default) were also charged. The businesspeople were charged with grand smuggling by an organized group, exceptionally grand custom duty evasion and grand legalization of smuggled goods by an organized group (art.188 part 4, art. 194 part 2, art. 174 part 3 of the Russian Criminal Code).\n\nOn June 15, in Shanghai, President Vladimir Putin told journalists that he had asked Vladimir Loskutov, a prosecutor from Leningrad Oblast and a former classmate of his, to take on the case, as the President couldn't trust the Moscow offices of law-enforcement agencies. \n\nOn July 7 First deputy Prosecutor General Yury Buiryukov resigned. On September 13, 2006, the Prosecutor General's Office under Yury Chaika announced that it had attained the dismissals of 19 unnamed high-rank state employees involved in the furniture smuggling cases as well as illegal imports of consumer goods from China, although unlike employees of furniture companies, no official has ever been charged with this. Mass media revealed that the officials dismissed around that time had worked in the Moscow and federal offices of FSB, Prosecutor General's Office, Moscow Regional Prosecutor's Office, Federal Customs Service and Presidential Executive Office. Deputy heads of the FSB Internal Security Department also figured in the report authored by Viktor Cherkesov. The purge has occurred while FSB head Nikolai Patrushev was on vacations. Vladimir Vdovin, Deputy Chairman of the Russian Federal Property Fund, has also resigned after 12 years in office on September 19, 2006, officially because of a change of job, but it was rumored that his dismissal was linked to the Three Whales case.\n\n"}
{"id": "23863323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23863323", "title": "Turks in Russia", "text": "Turks in Russia\n\nTurks in Russia () are Turkish people who live in Russia. The community is largely made up of Meskhetian Turks and expatriates from Turkey as well as children of mixed ethnicity.\n\nThe First All-Union Census of the Soviet Union in 1926 recorded 8,570 Ottoman Turks living in the Soviet Union. The Ottoman Turks are no longer listed separately in the census, as it is presumed that those who were living in Russia in the 1920s have subsequently either been assimilated into Russian society or have left the country.\n\nDuring World War II, the Soviet Union was preparing to launch a pressure campaign against Turkey. Vyacheslav Molotov, who was at the time the Minister of Foreign Affairs, made a request of the Turkish Ambassador in Moscow that Turkey surrender three Anatolian provinces (Kars, Ardahan and Artvin). Thus, war against Turkey seemed possible, and Joseph Stalin wanted to commit a genocide to the strategic Turkish population situated in Meskheti, near the Turkish-Georgian border, since during the Russo-Turkish Wars the Turks of the region had been loyal to the Ottoman Empire and were therefore likely to be hostile to Soviet intentions. In 1944, the Meskhetian Turks were forcefully deported from Meskheti, Georgia and accused of smuggling, banditry and espionage in collaboration with their kin across the Turkish border.\n\nSoviet authorities issued an official ruling that 17,000 Meskhetian Turks, virtually the entire Turkish population in the Ferghana Valley, be transported to Russia. Another 70,000 Meskhetian Turks from other parts of Uzbekistan soon followed the first wave of migrants and settled mainly in Azerbaijan and Russia.\n\nIn the late 1970s, the Stavropol and Krasnodar authorities visited various regions of Uzbekistan to invite and recruit Meskhetian Turks to work in agriculture enterprises in southern Russia. In 1985, Moscow issued a proposal inviting more Meskhetian Turks to move to villages in southern Russia that had been abandoned by ethnic Russians who were moving to the cities. However, the Meskhetian Turks response was that they would only leave Uzbekistan if the move were to be to their homeland. Then, in 1989, ethnic Uzbeks began a series of actions against the Turks; they became the victims of riots in the Ferghana valley which led to over a hundred deaths. Within days, Decision 503 was announced \"inviting\" the Turks to occupy the empty farms in southern Russia that they had resisted moving to for years and around 17,000 Meskhetian Turks were evacuated to Russia. Meskhetian Turks maintain that Moscow had planned the Uzbek riots. By the early 1990s, the 70,000 Meskhetian Turks who were still resident in Uzbekistan left for Azerbaijan, Russia and Ukraine due to fears of continued violence.\n\nDuring the 2000s, Russia witnessed increasing numbers of immigrants from Turkey; the number of Turkish labour migrants grew, on average, by 30–50% per annum. By 2008, over 130,000 Turkish citizens were working in Russia; most Turkish immigrants are those who married Russians in Turkey and then came to reside in the homeland of their spouse. \n\nAccording to the 2010 Russian Census, 105,058 people declared themselves as \"Turks\" and 4,825 stated that they were \"Meskhetian Turks\"; hence, the census showed that there was a total of 109,883 Turks living in the country.\n\nMeskhetian Turks in Russia, especially those in Krasnodar, have faced hostility from the local population. The Meskhetian Turks of Krasnodar have suffered significant human rights violations, including the deprivation of their citizenship. They have been deprived of civil, political and social rights and are prohibited from owning property and employment. Since 2004, many are now leaving the Krasnodar region for the United States as refugees.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43812879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43812879", "title": "Ukrainians in Portugal", "text": "Ukrainians in Portugal\n\nUkrainians constitute the second-largest foreign community residing in Portugal, with 44,074 residents in 2012, and 52,293 in 2009, according to the \"Foreigners and Borders Service\" (SEF). Only the Brazilian immigrant community is larger. According to data from SEF, this number represents a decrease in respect of 62,448 Ukrainians residing in Portugal in 2002, when they were the largest immigrant community in Portugal.\n\nUkrainians began arriving in Portugal in the late 1990s, and there was a tremendous growth in the early years of the twenty-first century. In the initial phase, between 1999 and 2002, immigration was processed either in an organized manner, based on intermediaries, or through international networks of illegal recruitment of workers, disguised as travel agencies. The earliest immigrants entered the country with Schengen visas, valid throughout the Schengen Area, and remained undocumented until they were granted permanent permits.\n\nFrom 2004, following the decline in investment in major public works, the economic recession and improved mechanisms for controlling illegal immigration, many Ukrainians have left the country.\n\nSince 2009, the decline in the number of immigrants has steepened as a consequence of the economic crisis that has been occurring from 2008 on, and also due to the acquisition of Portuguese nationality by many Ukrainian citizens.\n\nInitially, the intention of many Ukrainian immigrants was to remain in Portugal for short periods, and many of them left the country. However, many others ended up opting for a longer stay. Among these, many decided to settle permanently in Portugal, joining or forming their families in the country and seeking recognition of their academic and professional qualifications, aiming access to more skilled and better paid jobs.\n\nAlthough the initial migration flow was motivated by job search and was predominantly masculine, the female component in the Ukrainian community in Portugal has increased substantially during the following years, particularly for reasons related to family reunification. According to Census 2011, women represented 49.2% of the Ukrainian population resident in Portugal, while in 2001 they were only 18.6%.\n\nThe Ukrainian population in Portugal is relatively young compared to the native Portuguese population. The average age of Ukrainians residing in Portugal is 34, lower than that of native Portuguese, which is 42.1 years.\n\nThe educational levels of individuals of working age (15–64 years) are higher than those of Portuguese nationals. According to Census 2011, 23.3% of Ukrainians in Portugal had completed college education, and only 9.7% had an academic qualification lower than the 9th grade. These values contrast with the education levels of the native Portuguese population, which were 16.6% and 40.6%, respectively.\n\nAlso, according to the 2011 Census, 71.1% of the Ukrainian population was economically active and 59.2% were employed, while 47% of the Portuguese nationals were economically active and only 41% had jobs.\n\nMost Ukrainians in Portugal work in low-skill and low wages jobs, particularly on cleaning services, construction, manufacturing industries, transport services, hotels and restaurants. However, according to a recent survey, it was found that some Ukrainian workers have achieved jobs that are more compatible with their academic and professional qualifications.\n\n"}
{"id": "53575283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53575283", "title": "William Wilbanks", "text": "William Wilbanks\n\nWilliam Lee \"Billy\" Wilbanks (May 30, 1940 - October 9, 2018) was an American criminologist and former professor of criminal justice at Florida International University. \n\nWilbanks graduated from Belton High School in Belton, Texas in 1958. At Belton High, he was an all-state guard on the State AA Championship basketball team that won the Class 2A championship in 1958. He went on to receive his B.A. from Abilene Christian College in 1963, after which he received his M.A.'s from Abilene Christian College, Sam Houston State University, and the University at Albany, SUNY in 1965, 1972, and 1972, respectively. In 1975, he received his Ph.D. in criminal justice from University at Albany, SUNY.\nWilbanks taught at Florida International University from 1973 to 1999, and has written over 20 books and 70 journal articles. In 2001, he returned to Belton to build the Belton High School Athletic Wall of Honor, which honors 72 of the school's athletes and five of its championship teams. Texas Tech University's Department of English awards the William Wilbanks Technical Communication Scholarship to some of its undergraduates who are technical communication majors, and who have GPAs of 3.0 or higher.\nFrom 1981 to 1997, Wilbanks appeared on television over 30 times as a criminology expert. These appearances included four on CNN's \"Crossfire\" and two on CBS' \"60 Minutes\". He appeared on multiple televised debates in which he argued that Prentice Rasheed, a shopkeeper in Dade County, Florida, should be indicted for setting a booby trap that killed a suspected burglar. Despite this, Rasheed was not indicted by the grand jury. After the jury made this decision, Wilbanks said, \"People are thinking, if the police don't do the job, then I can do whatever I want. That's bad news. I don't think any of us wants to live in a booby-trapped society. A trap can't discriminate between a burglar, a fireman, a policeman or the Amway lady.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1069689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1069689", "title": "Wing Luke Museum of the Asian Pacific American Experience", "text": "Wing Luke Museum of the Asian Pacific American Experience\n\nThe Wing Luke Museum of the Asian Pacific American Experience is a history museum of the culture, art and history of Asian Pacific Americans located in Seattle, Washington's Chinatown-International District, founded in 1967. It is a Smithsonian Institution affiliate, and the only pan-Asian Pacific American community-based museum in the US. In February 2013 it was recognized as one of two dozen affiliated areas of the U.S. National Park Service.\n\nThe Wing Luke Museum's collections have over 18,000 items, including artifacts, photographs, documents, books, and oral histories. Parts of the museum's collections are viewable through its online database. There is an oral history lab inside the museum for staff and public use.\n\nThe Wing houses temporary and permanent exhibitions related to Asian American history, art, and cultures. The museum represents over 26 ethnic groups.\n\nThe museum uses a community-based exhibition model to create exhibits. As part of the community-based process, the museum conducts outreach into communities to find individuals and organizations to partner with. The museum then forms a Community Advisory Committee (CAC) to determine the exhibit's direction. Staff at the museum conduct research, gather materials, and records relevant oral histories under the guidance of the CAC. The CAC also determines the exhibit's overall design and content. This process can take 12 to 18 months.\n\nIn 1995, the Wing Luke Museum received the Institute for Museum and Library Services National Award for Museum Service for its exhibit process. Award-winning exhibits by the museum include Do You Know Bruce?, a 2014 exhibit on Bruce Lee. The Association of King County Historical Organizations awarded Do You Know Bruce? the 2015 Exhibit Award.\n\nThe museum is named for Seattle City Council member Wing Luke, the first Asian American elected to public office in the Pacific Northwest. Luke suggested the need for a museum in the Chinatown-International District in the early 1960s to preserve the history of the rapidly changing neighborhood. After Luke died in a small plane crash in 1965, friends and supporters donated money to start the museum he envisioned. The Wing Luke Memorial Museum, as it was first named, opened in 1967 in a small storefront on 8th Avenue.\n\nInitially the museum focused on Asian folk art, but soon expanded its programming to reflect the diversity of the local community. The museum exhibited work emerging local artists, and by the 1980s pan-Asian exhibits made by community volunteers became central to the museum.\n\nIn 1987 the Wing Luke Museum moved to a larger home on 7th Avenue and updated its name to Wing Luke Asian Museum. It achieved national recognition in the 1990s under the direction of local journalist Ron Chew, a pioneer of the community based model of exhibit development that placed personal experiences at the center of exhibit narratives. Today the museum continues to present exhibits and programs that promote social justice, multicultural understanding and tolerance.\n\nIn 2008 the museum moved to a larger building at 719 South King Street, in the renovated 1910 East Kong Yick Building. The Museum continued addressing civil rights and social justice issues, while preserving historic spaces within the building including the former Gee How Oak Tin Association room, the Freeman SRO Hotel, a Canton Alley family apartment, and the Yick Fung Mercantile.\n\nIn 2010 the museum changed its name to the Wing Luke Museum of the Asian Pacific American Experience, informally \"The Wing.\"\n\nThe East Kong Yick Building, where the Museum is located, along with the West Kong Yick Building, were funded by 170 Chinese immigrants in 1910. In addition to storefronts, the East Kong Yick Building contained the Freeman Hotel, which was used by Chinese, Japanese, and Filipino immigrants until the 1940s. The museum's galleries now share the building with re-creations of the Gee How Oak Tin Association's meeting room, kitchens, and apartments that were inside the hotel. The museum also preserves the contents of a general store, Yick Fung Co., which the owner donated in its entirety.\n\nThe museum is in Seattle's Chinatown-International District next to Canton Alley, historically a residential, commercial, and communal area. The Wing runs Chinatown Discovery Tours, a tour service founded in 1985 that takes visitors to significant sites within the neighborhood.\n"}
