{"id": "31917288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31917288", "title": "2011 Germany E. coli O104:H4 outbreak", "text": "2011 Germany E. coli O104:H4 outbreak\n\nA novel strain of bacteria caused a serious outbreak of foodborne illness focused in northern Germany in May through June 2011. The illness was characterized by bloody diarrhea, with a high frequency of serious complications, including hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS), a condition that requires urgent treatment. The outbreak was originally thought to have been caused by an enterohemorrhagic (EHEC) strain of \"E. coli\", but it was later shown to have been caused by an enteroaggregative \"E. coli\" (EAEC) strain that had acquired the genes to produce Shiga toxins, present in organic fenugreek sprouts.\n\nEpidemiological fieldwork suggested fresh vegetables were the source of infection. The agriculture minister of Lower Saxony identified an organic farm in Bienenbüttel, Lower Saxony, Germany, which produces a variety of sprouted foods, as the likely source of the \"E. coli\" outbreak. The farm was shut down. Although laboratories in Lower Saxony did not detect the bacterium in produce, a laboratory in North Rhine-Westphalia later found the outbreak strain in a discarded package of sprouts from the suspect farm. A control investigation confirmed the farm as the source of the outbreak. On 30 June 2011, the German \"Bundesinstitut für Risikobewertung (BfR)\" (Federal Institute for Risk Assessment), an institute of the German Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection, announced that seeds of organic fenugreek imported from Egypt were likely the source of the outbreak.\n\nIn all, 3,950 people were affected and 53 died, 51 of whom were in Germany. 800 people suffered hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), which can lead to kidney failure. A handful of cases were reported in several other countries including Switzerland, Poland, the Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark, the UK, Canada and the USA. Essentially all affected people had been in Germany or France shortly before becoming ill.\n\nInitially, German officials made incorrect statements on the likely origin and strain of \"Escherichia coli\". The German health authorities, without results of ongoing tests, incorrectly linked the O104 serotype to cucumbers imported from Spain. Later, they recognised that Spanish greenhouses were not the source of the \"E. coli\" and cucumber samples did not contain the specific \"E. coli\" variant causing the outbreak. Spain consequently expressed anger about having its produce linked with the deadly \"E. coli\" outbreak, which cost Spanish exporters US$200 million per week. Russia banned the import of all fresh vegetables from the European Union from early June until 22 June 2011.\n\nEnterohemorrhagic \"E. coli\" has been linked to foodborne outbreaks of bloody diarrhea and hemolytic uremic syndrome around the world since at least the early 1980s. The majority of disease has been attributed to \"E. coli\" with the serotype ; however, over 100 \"E. coli\" serotypes have been associated with human diarrheal disease.\nIn the five years before the outbreak (2006 to 2010) Germany experienced an average of 218 cases of EHEC gastroenteritis and 13 cases of hemolytic uremic syndrome each year. According to the Geman National Reference Centre for \"Salmonella\" and Other Enteric Pathogens, the most common serotypes in those years were O157, O26, O103, and O91. Serotype O104 was relatively rare in Europe in the years preceding the outbreak, with just 11 reported cases in the EU and Norway between 2004 and 2009.\n\nCases began as early as May 1, 2011 with a man in Aachen reporting bloody dirrahea. Cases then rapidly increased, with over 100 cases of EHEC gastroenteritis and/or HUS were being reported each day by May 16th. The outbreak centered on the five northern German states of Hamburg, Schleswig-Holstein, Bremen, Lower Saxony, and Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. Cases would eventually be reported in all 16 German states; however most cases outside of the northern states were linked to travel in northern Germany. Additionally, a small number of cases were reported from other countries, although most of those ill had previously travelled to Germany. The most substantial outbreak outside of Germany was in Bordeaux, France where 15 cases of EHEC gastroenteritis were associated with the same strain of \"E. coli\" which caused the outbreak in Germany. The French cases had not previously travelled to Germany, suggesting they acquired the bacteria from contaminated sprouts grown in France. Cases of EHEC HUS and gastroenteritis peaked on May 21 and 22 respectively. Cases then slowly decreased over the following month, with cases reported throughout the month of June and ending during July 2011. German authorities deemed the outbreak over in early July 2011.\n\nThe outbreak disproportionately affected adults and the elderly. 88% of hemolytic-uremic syndrome patients were over 17 years of age, and the median age of hemolytic-uremic syndrome patients was 42 years. The median age of patients who died of gastroenteritis was 82 years, while the median age of patients who died from hemolytic-uremic syndrome was 74 years.\n\nMost or all victims were believed to have become infected in Germany or France. Confirmed cases are listed below according to their location when diagnosed.\n\nThe investigation into the cause of the outbreak officially began with the notification of the Robert Koch Institute on May 19th concerning three cases of HUS in children in Hamburg. On 26 May, German health officials hastily and prematurely announced that cucumbers from Spain were identified as a source of the \"E. coli\" outbreak in Germany, when in fact the source were Egyptian sprouts. On 27 May 2011, German officials issued an alert distributed to nearby countries, identifying organic cucumbers from Spain and withdrawing them from the market. The European Commission on 27 May said the two Spanish greenhouses suspected to be the sources had been closed, and were being investigated. The investigation included analyzing soil and water samples from the greenhouses in question, located in the Andalusia region, with results expected by 1 June. Cucumber samples from the Andalusian greenhouses did not show \"E. coli\" contamination, but cross-contamination during transport in Germany and distribution in Hamburg are not discounted; in fact, the most probable cause is cross-contamination inside Germany. The Robert Koch Institute advises against eating raw tomatoes, cucumbers, and lettuces in Germany to prevent further cases.\n\nOn 31 May, an EU official said the transport chain was so long, the cucumbers from Spain could have been contaminated at any point along the transit route. Spanish officials said before, there was no proof that the outbreak originated in Spain; Spanish Secretary of State for European Affairs Diego López Garrido said, \"you can't attribute the origin of this sickness to Spain.\"\n\nOn Tuesday 31 May, lab tests showed two of the four cucumbers examined did contain toxin-producing \"E. coli\" strains, most likely because of cross-contamination in Germany according to experts, but not the O104 strain found in patients. The bacteria in the other two cucumbers have not yet been identified.\n\nGenomic sequencing by BGI Shenzhen confirm a 2001 finding that the O104:H4 serotype has some enteroaggregative \"E. coli\" (EAEC or EAggEC) properties, presumably acquired by horizontal gene transfer.\n\nThe only previous documented case of EHEC O104:H4 was in South Korea in 2005, and researchers pointed at contaminated hamburgers as a possible cause.\n\nOn 4 June, German and EU officials had allegedly been examining data that indicated an open catering event at a restaurant in Lübeck, Germany, was a possible starting point of the ongoing deadly \"E. coli\" outbreak in Europe. German hospitals were nearly overwhelmed by the number of \"E. coli\" victims.\n\nA spokesman for the agriculture ministry in Lower Saxony, warned people on 5 June to stop eating local bean sprouts, as they had become the latest suspected cause of the \"E. coli\" outbreak. A farm in Bienenbuettel, Lower Saxony, was announced as the probable source, but on 6 June, officials said this could not be substantiated by tests. Of the 40 samples from the farm that were being examined, 23 had tested negative. But on 10 June, the head of the Robert Koch Institute confirmed the sprouts were the source of the outbreak, and people who ate the sprouts were nine times more likely to have bloody diarrhea.\nThe WHO have confirmed on 10 June this statement on the update 13 of the EHEC outbreak.\n\nAccording to the head of the national \"E. coli\" lab at the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment, the strain responsible for the outbreak has been circulating in Germany for 10 years, and in humans not cattle. He said it is likely to have gotten into food via human feces.\n\nA joint risk-assessment by EFSA/ECDC, issued 29 June 2011, made a connection between the German outbreak and a HUS outbreak in the Bordeaux area of France, first reported on 24 June, in which infection with \"E. coli\" O104:H4 has been confirmed in several patients. The assessment implicated fenugreek seeds imported from Egypt in 2009 and 2010, from which sprouts were grown, as a common source of both outbreaks, but cautioned, \"there is still much uncertainty about whether this is truly the common cause of the infections\", as tests on the seeds had not yet found any \"E. coli\" bacteria of the O104:H4 strain. The potentially contaminated seeds were widely distributed in Europe. Egypt, for its part, steadfastly denied it may have been the source of deadly \"E. coli\" strain, with the Minister of Agriculture calling speculations to that effect \"sheer lies\".\n\nUsing epidemiological methods the outbreaks in 2011 were traced to a shipment of seeds from Egypt that arrived in Germany in December 2009.\n\nOn 22 May, Health Commissioner John Dalli of the European Commission declared the issue to be an 'absolute priority', saying the Commission is working with member states, particularly Germany, to identify the source of the outbreak. Speaking again on 1 June, Commissioner Dalli noted the outbreaks have been limited in origin to the greater Hamburg area and declared any product ban would be disproportionate. He also said he is working with Agriculture Commissioner Dacian Cioloş \"to address the hardship faced by this group of our citizens that has also been hit hard by the \"E. coli\" outbreak\". He also said, \"In the future, we need to see how the timing of the alerts can be closer to the actual scientific basis and proof.\"\n\nBy 7 June, EU Ministers held an emergency meeting in Luxembourg to discuss the growing crisis, which had left 23 people dead, and more than 2,000 ill so far. Germany's Federal Agriculture Minister, Ilse Aigner, repeated her warnings to EU consumers to avoid eating any bean sprouts, cucumbers, tomatoes, and salads.\n\nThe United States Center for Disease Control and the United States Department of Agriculture has long been concerned regarding risks involving the \"E. coli\" risk in raw bean sprout production.\n\nApart from the German government, which warned against the consumption of all raw cucumbers, tomatoes, and lettuce, several countries implemented restrictions or bans on the import of produce.\n\nMany other European countries took restrictive actions or lost sales of produce, including Albania, Croatia, and Russia.\n\nThe ban on EU vegetables was lifted on 10 June, but stiff safety measures remained in place.\n\nMany countries took restrictive action. Egypt was a focus of the epidemiological investigation because the fenugreek seeds were imported into Germany from Egypt.\n\nEgypt's Minister of Health Ashraf Hatem denied his nation had any patients infected with the new \"E. coli\" strain, due to the strict precautions brought in to test overseas tourists entering the country on 2 June.\n\nResponding to claims that Egyptian fenugreek seeds were the cause of the \"E. coli\" outbreak, Egyptian Minister of Agriculture Ayman Abu-Hadid told the Egyptian press the problem had nothing to do with Egypt and instead asserted, \"Israel is waging a commercial war against Egyptian exports.\"\n\nCanada and the United States reported cases of \"E. coli\" infection that had been acquired in Europe.\n\nOn 2 June, Canada brought in stricter anti \"E. coli\"-related food inspections, and by 3 June the Public Health Agency of Canada said no Canadians had been reported sick with the strain as of that date. The Canadian government also brought in heavier import and hygiene restrictions on EU cucumbers, lettuces, and tomatoes.\n\nThe United States Department of Agriculture and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) stated that emerging strains of \"E. coli\" are a significant problem, but regulatory bodies in the US have concentrated on the more infamous \"E. coli\" O157 serotype.\n\nThe FDA noted nearly all of America's fresh produce is grown in the US and areas of Central America, and the EU has not been a significant source of fresh produce for the US.\n\nOther countries, including Nigeria, Hong Kong, and Thailand, expressed concern regarding imported produce.\n\nBy 1 June, Italian, Austrian, and French cucumber sales had begun to decline sharply, but the Austrian Health Ministry official, Dr. Pamela Rendi-Wagner, claimed Austrian customers were still safe.\n\nOn 3 June, the governments of Spain, Portugal, and Germany said they would formally request EU agricultural aid for farmers affected by the outbreak. That day, Russia also set up plans for new imports of cucumbers from Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Egypt, and Turkey.\n\nBy 7 June, the EU's farmers had reported they had lost millions of dollars in exports during the outbreak, with Fepex, Spain's fruit and vegetable industry group, saying its growers had $256,000,000 in turnover. French, Swiss, Bulgarian, German, Dutch, Belgian, and Portuguese producers have also been similarly affected.\n\nThat day, the EU proposed issuing £135,000,000 in agricultural compensation to its farmers. The EU agriculture commissioner said the EU's farmers could get back up to 30% of the cost of vegetables they were unable to sell. The EU's health commissioner, John Dalli, had formally criticised Germany earlier that day for rushing out \"premature conclusions\" about the source of an outbreak, and only helped to spread alarm among the public and farmers and untimely leading to the damaging the EU's agriculture sector. John Dalli also told the EU parliament in Strasbourg that claims had to be scientifically sound, unbiased, and fool-proof in nature before it was publicised in future.\n\nSpain then rejected a €150,000,000/£135,000,000 the European Commission's compensation deal for their farmers who were hit by the \"E. coli\" outbreak, on 8 June, saying it was too small. France, European Union's largest agricultural grower, said it would support the plan to compensate producers hurt by the outbreak, according to the French Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire.\n\nMinisters from both EU and Russia were scheduled to meet on 8 June over Russia's earlier decision to ban all its vegetable imports from the EU.\n\nOn 8 June, the EU's \"E. coli\" O104:H4 outbreak was estimated to have cost $2,840,000,000 in human losses (such as sick leave), regardless of material losses (such as dumped cucumbers).\n\nConsumers across Europe were shunning fruit and vegetables \"en masse\" by 8 June, as the German government's edict against eating raw cucumbers, tomatoes, lettuce and sprouts remained on. EU farmers claimed to have losses up to C$417,000,000 a week as ripe vegetables rotted in their fields and warehouses. On 8 June, The EU Farm Commissioner Dacian Ciolos said the EU had increased its offer of compensation to farmers for the losses caused by \"E. coli\" outbreak to C$210,000,000.\n\nThe outbreak was caused by a strain of \"E. coli\" of the serotype O104:H4, that was unusual for having characteristics of both enteroaggregative \"E. coli\" and enterohemorrhagic \"E. coli\". The strain has a number of virulence genes typical of enteroaggregative \"E. coli\", including \"attA\", \"aggR\", \"aap\", \"aggA\", and \"aggC\", in addition to the Shiga toxin variant 2. All bacteria isolated from patients in this outbreak were resistant to beta-lactam antibiotics, third-generation cephaloporins, and partially resistant to nalidixic acid, but susceptible to carbapenems and ciprofloxacin. \n\n"}
{"id": "2250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2250", "title": "Abiotic stress", "text": "Abiotic stress\n\nAbiotic stress is defined as the negative impact of non-living factors on the living organisms in a specific environment. The non-living variable must influence the environment beyond its normal range of variation to adversely affect the population performance or individual physiology of the organism in a significant way.\n\nWhereas a biotic stress would include living disturbances such as fungi or harmful insects, abiotic stress factors, or stressors, are naturally occurring, often intangible and inanimate factors such as intense sunlight, temperature or wind that may cause harm to the plants and animals in the area affected. Abiotic stress is essentially unavoidable.\nAbiotic stress affects animals, but plants are especially dependent, if not solely dependent, on environmental factors, so it is particularly constraining. Abiotic stress is the most harmful factor concerning the growth and productivity of crops worldwide. Research has also shown that abiotic stressors are at their most harmful when they occur together, in combinations of abiotic stress factors.\n\nAbiotic stress comes in many forms. The most common of the stressors are the easiest for people to identify, but there are many other, less recognizable abiotic stress factors which affect environments constantly.\n\nThe most basic stressors include: \n\nLesser-known stressors generally occur on a smaller scale. They include: poor edaphic conditions like rock content and pH levels, high radiation, compaction, contamination, and other, highly specific conditions like rapid rehydration during seed germination.\n\nAbiotic stress, as a natural part of every ecosystem, will affect organisms in a variety of ways. Although these effects may be either beneficial or detrimental, the location of the area is crucial in determining the extent of the impact that abiotic stress will have. The higher the latitude of the area affected, the greater the impact of abiotic stress will be on that area. So, a taiga or boreal forest is at the mercy of whatever abiotic stress factors may come along, while tropical zones are much less susceptible to such stressors.\n\nOne example of a situation where abiotic stress plays a constructive role in an ecosystem is in natural wildfires. While they can be a human safety hazard, it is productive for these ecosystems to burn out every once in a while so that new organisms can begin to grow and thrive.\nEven though it is healthy for an ecosystem, a wildfire can still be considered an abiotic stressor, because it puts an obvious stress on individual organisms within the area. Every tree that is scorched and each bird nest that is devoured is a sign of the abiotic stress. On the larger scale, though, natural wildfires are positive manifestations of abiotic stress.\n\nWhat also needs to be taken into account when looking for benefits of abiotic stress, is that one phenomenon may not affect an entire ecosystem in the same way. While a flood will kill most plants living low on the ground in a certain area, if there is rice there, it will thrive in the wet conditions.\nAnother example of this is in phytoplankton and zooplankton. The same types of conditions are usually considered stressful for these two types of organisms. They act very similarly when exposed to ultraviolet light and most toxins, but at elevated temperatures the phytoplankton reacts negatively, while the thermophilic zooplankton reacts positively to the increase in temperature. The two may be living in the same environment, but an increase in temperature of the area would prove stressful only for one of the organisms.\n\nLastly, abiotic stress has enabled species to grow, develop, and evolve, furthering natural selection as it picks out the weakest of a group of organisms. Both plants and animals have evolved mechanisms allowing them to survive extremes.\n\nThe most obvious detriment concerning abiotic stress involves farming. It has been claimed by one study that abiotic stress causes the most crop loss of any other factor and that most major crops are reduced in their yield by more than 50% from their potential yield.\n\nBecause abiotic stress is widely considered a detrimental effect, the research on this branch of the issue is extensive. For more information on the harmful effects of abiotic stress, see the sections below on plants and animals.\n\nA plant's first line of defense against abiotic stress is in its roots. If the soil holding the plant is healthy and biologically diverse, the plant will have a higher chance of surviving stressful conditions.\n\nThe plant responses to stress are dependent on the tissue or organ affected by the stress. For example, transcriptional responses to stress are tissue or cell specific in roots and are quite different depending on the stress involved.\n\nOne of the primary responses to abiotic stress such as high salinity is the disruption of the Na+/K+ ratio in the cytoplasm of the plant cell. High concentrations of Na+, for example, can decrease the capacity for the plant to take up water and also alter enzyme and transporter functions. Evolved adaptations to efficiently restore cellular ion homeostasis has led to a wide variety of stress tolerant plants.\n\nFacilitation, or the positive interactions between different species of plants, is an intricate web of association in a natural environment. It is how plants work together. In areas of high stress, the level of facilitation is especially high as well. This could possibly be because the plants need a stronger network to survive in a harsher environment, so their interactions between species, such as cross-pollination or mutualistic actions, become more common to cope with the severity of their habitat.\n\nPlants also adapt very differently from one another, even from a plant living in the same area. When a group of different plant species was prompted by a variety of different stress signals, such as drought or cold, each plant responded uniquely. Hardly any of the responses were similar, even though the plants had become accustomed to exactly the same home environment.\n\nRice (\"Oryza sativa\") is a classic example. Rice is a staple food throughout the world, especially in China and India. Rice plants experience different types of abiotic stresses, like drought and high salinity. These stress conditions have a negative impact on rice production. Genetic diversity has been studied among several rice varieties with different genotypes using molecular markers.\n\nSerpentine soils (media with low concentrations of nutrients and high concentrations of heavy metals) can be a source of abiotic stress. Initially, the absorption of toxic metal ions is limited by cell membrane exclusion. Ions that are absorbed into tissues are sequestered in cell vacuoles. This sequestration mechanism is facilitated by proteins on the vacuole membrane.\n\nChemical priming has been proposed to increase tolerance to abiotic stresses in crop plants. In this method, which is analogous to vaccination, stress-inducing chemical agents are introduced to the plant in brief doses so that the plant begins preparing defense mechanisms. Thus, when the abiotic stress occurs, the plant has already prepared defense mechanisms that can be activated faster and increase tolerance.\n\nSoil salinization, the accumulation of water-soluble salts to levels that negatively impact plant production, is a global phenomenon affecting approximately 831 million hectares of land. More specifically, the phenomenon threatens 19.5% of the world's irrigated agricultural land and 2.1% of the world's non-irrigated (dry-land) agricultural lands. High soil salinity content can be harmful to plants because water-soluble salts can alter osmotic potential gradients and consequently inhibit many cellular functions. For example, high soil salinity content can inhibit the process of photosynthesis by limiting a plant's water uptake; high levels of water-soluble salts in the soil can decrease the osmotic potential of the soil and consequently decrease the difference in water potential between the soil and the plant's roots, thereby limiting electron flow from H2O to P680 in Photosystem II's reaction center.\n\nOver generations, many plants have mutated and built different mechanisms to counter salinity effects. A good combatant of salinity in plants is the hormone ethylene. Ethylene is known for regulating plant growth and development and dealing with stress conditions. Many central membrane proteins in plants, such as ETO2, ERS1 and EIN2, are used for ethylene signaling in many plant growth processes. Mutations in these proteins can lead to heightened salt sensitivity and can limit plant growth. The effects of salinity has been studied on Arabidopsis plants that have mutated ERS1, ERS2, ETR1, ETR2 and EIN4 proteins. These proteins are used for ethylene signaling again certain stress conditions, such as salt and the ethylene precursor ACC is used to suppress any sensitivity to the salt stress.\n\nPhosphorus (P) is an essential macronutrient required for plant growth and development, but most of the world's soil is limited in this important plant nutrient. Plants can utilize P mainly in the form if soluble inorganic phosphate (Pi) but are subjected to abiotic stress of P-limitation when there is not sufficient soluble PO4 available in the soil. Phosphorus forms insoluble complexes with Ca and Mg in alkaline soils and Al and Fe in acidic soils that makes it unavailable for plant roots. When there is limited bioavailable P in the soil, plants show extensive abiotic stress phenotype such as short primary roots and more lateral roots and root hairs to make more surface available for Pi absorption, exudation of organic acids and phosphatase to release Pi from complex P containing molecules and make it available for growing plants organs. It has been shown that PHR1, a MYB - related transcription factor is a master regulator of P-starvation response in plants. PHR1 also has been shown to regulate extensive remodeling of lipids and metabolites during phosphorus limitation stress\n\nDrought stress is one of the main causes of crop loss within the agricultural world. This is due to water's necessity in so many fundamental processes in plant growth. It has become especially important in recent years to find a way to combat drought stress. A decrease in precipitation and subsequent increase in drought are extremely likely in the future due to an increase in global warming. Plants have come up with many mechanisms and adaptations to try and deal with drought stress. One of the leading ways that plants combat drought stress is by closing their stomates. A key hormone regulating stomatal opening and closing is abscisic acid (ABA). Synthesis of ABA causes the ABA to bind to receptors. This binding then effects the opening of ion channels thereby decreasing turgor pressure in the stomata and causing them to close. Recent studies, by Gonzalez-Villagra, et al., showed how ABA levels increased in drought-stressed plants (2018). They showed that when plants were placed in a stressful situation they produced more ABA to try and conserve any water they had in their leaves. Another extremely important factor in dealing with drought stress and regulating the uptake and export of water is aquaporins (AQPs). AQPs are integral membrane proteins that make up channels. These channel's main job is the transport of water and other necessary solutes. AQPs are both transcriptionally and post transcriptionally regulated by many different factors such as ABA, GA3, pH and Ca2+ and the specific levels of AQPs in certain parts of the plant, such as roots or leaves, helps to draw as much water into the plant as possible. By understanding both the mechanism of AQPs and the hormone ABA, scientists will be better able to produce drought resistant plants in the future.\n\nOne interesting thing that has been found in plants that are consistently exposed to drought, is their ability to form a sort of \"memory\". In a study by Tombesi et al., they found plants who had previously been exposed to drought were able to come up with a sort of strategy to minimize water loss and decrease water use. They found that plants who were exposed to drought conditions actually changed they way the regulated their stomates and what they called \"hydraulic safety margin\" so as to decrease the venerability of the plant. By changing the regulation of stomata and subsequently the transpiration, plants were able to function better in situations where the availability of water decreased.\n\nFor animals, the most stressful of all the abiotic stressors is heat. This is because many species are unable to regulate their internal body temperature. Even in the species that are able to regulate their own temperature, it is not always a completely accurate system. Temperature determines metabolic rates, heart rates, and other very important factors within the bodies of animals, so an extreme temperature change can easily distress the animal's body. Animals can respond to extreme heat, for example, through natural heat acclimation or by burrowing into the ground to find a cooler space.\n\nIt is also possible to see in animals that a high genetic diversity is beneficial in providing resiliency against harsh abiotic stressors. This acts as a sort of stock room when a species is plagued by the perils of natural selection. A variety of galling insects are among the most specialized and diverse herbivores on the planet, and their extensive protections against abiotic stress factors have helped the insect in gaining that position of honor.\n\nBiodiversity is determined by many things, and one of them is abiotic stress. If an environment is highly stressful, biodiversity tends to be low. If abiotic stress does not have a strong presence in an area, the biodiversity will be much higher.\n\nThis idea leads into the understanding of how abiotic stress and endangered species are related. It has been observed through a variety of environments that as the level of abiotic stress increases, the number of species decreases. This means that species are more likely to become population threatened, endangered, and even extinct, when and where abiotic stress is especially harsh.\n\n"}
{"id": "20859736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20859736", "title": "Abortion in Paraguay", "text": "Abortion in Paraguay\n\nAbortion in Paraguay is illegal except in case of the threat to the life of the woman. Anyone who performs an abortion can be sentenced to 15 to 30 months in prison. If the abortion is done without the consent of the woman, the punishment is increased to 2 to 5 years. If the death of the woman occurred as a result of the abortion, the person who did the procedure can be sentenced to 4 to 6 years in prison, and 5 to 10 years in cases in which she did not consent.\n\nIn Paraguay, 23 out of 100 deaths of young women are the result of illegal abortions. Concerning this death rate, Paraguay has one of the highest in the region.\n\nIn April 2015, a story about a 10-year-old Paraguayan girl who was 22 weeks pregnant as a result of having allegedly been raped and impregnated by her stepfather came to light. The pregnancy had been discovered that same month upon the girl’s mother having brought her to a local hospital in order to receive medical treatment for abdominal pain, which was found to have been related to the pregnancy. Calls from her mother as well as outraged members of the public throughout the world for permission to allow the girl the ability to undergo an abortion procedure were ultimately denied. The girl had given birth to the child via a caesarean section in a Red Cross hospital in Paraguay’s capital city of Asunción later that year. The girl’s stepfather has since been prosecuted for the rape and her mother had also been charged with negligence for her alleged role in the circumstances surrounding the rape and pregnancy of her daughter. The high-profile nature of this case has led opposition leftist parties to push for less restrictive abortion laws in Paraguay, such as in cases of child pregnancies and in cases of sexual assault. Despite these efforts and the international attention, current government officials have neglected to support or act on any proposed changes to Paraguayan abortion law. Following this case, Paraguayan president Horacio Cartes instead attempted to justify denying the 10-year-old legal access to an abortion, arguing that, “We did what our conscience dictated, what the Constitution commands, and what our religious convictions command”. The United Nations has found that the maternal death rate is four times higher for girls under the age of 16 in Latin America. The 10-year-old girl has reportedly survived the birth, and her mother and grandmother have both requested legal custody of the newborn child.\n\n"}
{"id": "22899601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22899601", "title": "Accredited Social Health Activist", "text": "Accredited Social Health Activist\n\nAccredited social health activists (ASHAs) are community health workers instituted by the government of India's Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) as a part of the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM). The mission began in 2005; full implementation was targeted for 2012. Once fully implemented, there is to be \"an ASHA in every village\" in India, a target that translates into 250,000 ASHAs in 10 states. The grand total number of ASHAs in India was reported in July 2013 to be 870,089. There are 859,331 ASHAs in 32 states and union territories as per the data provided by the states in December 2014. This excludes data from the states of Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Puducherry, and Chandigarh, since the selection of ASHA is under way in these states.\n\nASHAs are local women trained to act as health educators and promoters in their communities. The Indian MoHFW describes them as:\n...health activist(s) in the community who will create awareness on health and its social determinants and mobilize the community towards local health planning and increased utilization and accountability of the existing health services.\n\nTheir tasks include motivating women to give birth in hospitals, bringing children to immunization clinics, encouraging family planning (e.g., surgical sterilization), treating basic illness and injury with first aid, keeping demographic records, and improving village sanitation. ASHAs are also meant to serve as a key communication mechanism between the healthcare system and rural populations.\n\nShe will act as a depot holder for essential provisions being made available to all habitations like Oral Rehydration Therapy (ORS), Iron Folic Acid Tablet(IFA), chloroquine, Disposable Delivery Kits (DDK), Oral Pills & Condoms, etc. from https://web.archive.org/web/20150708120224/http://nrhm.gov.in/communitisation/asha/about-asha.html\n\nASHAs must primarily be female residents of the village that they have been selected to serve, who are likely to remain in that village for the foreseeable future. Married, widowed or divorced women are preferred over women who have yet to marry since Indian cultural norms dictate that upon marriage a woman leaves her village and migrates to that of her husband. ASHAs preference for selection is they must have qualified up to the tenth grade, preferably be between the ages of 25 and 45, and are selected by and accountable to the gram panchayat (local government). If there is no suitable literate candidate, these criteria may be relaxed.\n\nAlthough ASHAs are considered volunteers, they receive outcome-based remuneration and financial compensation for training days. For example, if an ASHA facilitates an institutional delivery she receives and the mother receives . ASHAs also receive for each child completing an immunization session and for each individual who undergoes family planning. ASHAs are expected to attend a Wednesday meeting at the local primary health centre (PHC); beyond this requirement, the time ASHAs spend on their CHW tasks is relatively flexible.\n\nA baseline survey is to be taken at the district level. It is for fixing decentralized monitoring goals and indicators. The community monitoring would be at the village level. The planning commission would be the eventual monitor of outcomes. External evaluation will be taken up at frequent intervals.\n\nA study on effectiveness of \"ASHA INCENTIVE\" on enhancing the functioning of ASHA in motivating couples having two or fewer children to undergo permanent sterilization in Surendranagar district of Gujarat, India by Nimavat Jh et al., shows contribution of ASHAs toward achievements in female sterilization shows that maximum motivation was done by ASHAs, and ASHAs performance was increased; 1.13 times for eligible couples and 1.14 times for couples having two or fewer children after introduction of an incentive, and incentive showed a significant impact on motivation of eligible couples (χ2 = 121.744, df = 1, P < 0.0001) and motivation couple having two or fewer children (χ2 = 74.893, df = 1, P < 0.0001) for female sterilization method by ASHAs.\n\n"}
{"id": "51381411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51381411", "title": "Alexander Haddow", "text": "Alexander Haddow\n\nSir Alexander Haddow FRS FRSE (1907-1976) was a Scottish physician and pathologist at the forefront of cancer research in the 1940s. He served as Director of the Institute of Cancer Research from 1946 to 1969. He was also President of the Universal Union Against Cancer.\n\nHis most important discovery was the Haddow Effect, by which a carcinogenic compound can be used to arrest a cancer whose origin is an unrelated carcinogen.\n\nHe was born on 18 January 1907 in Leven, Fife the eldest son of William Haddow (d.1928) of Newharthill in Glasgow and his wife, Margaret Docherty. His father and grandfather were coal-miners. The family moved to Broxburn, West Lothian where his father ran a small bar and hotel. Alexander fell very ill with scarlet fever aged ten and remained frail and introverted thereafter and at the age of 11 also suffered from appendicitis. He was much impressed by the family GP, Dr Alexander Scott, who treated him on both occasions and who became his role model. Dr Scott was known for his studies of skin cancers in the local mining population. \n\nAlexander was educated at Broxburn High School then Broxburn Academy, winning the Dux Medal in the latter, and then studied medicine at Edinburgh University from 1924, graduating MB ChB in 1929. He went on to assist Prof Thomas Jones Mackie as a Houseman at Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, also lecturing in bacteriology at the university, where he became a full Lecturer in 1932. The university granted him two doctorates (PhD 1937 and MD 1938).\n\nIn 1936 he moved to London to join Ernest Kennaway's team at the Royal Cancer Hospital. In 1946 he succeeded Kennaway as Director of the Chester Beatty Research Institute, later renamed the Institute of Cancer Research.\n\nIn 1958 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of London and in 1961 was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, where his proposers were Alan William Greenwood, Robert Cruikshank, Richard Swain and George Lightbody Montgomery. He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1966.\n\nIn 1972 he retired to Chalfont St Giles. By this time he was almost totally blind due to diabetes, which also cost him the loss of his limbs.\n\nHe died at Amersham General Hospital on 21 January 1976 and was cremated.\n\nHe married twice: firstly in 1932 to Lucia Lindsay Crosby Black (d.1968); secondly in 1970 to Feo Standing, a scientific photographer.\nHe had one son by his first marriage, William George Haddow (b.1934). He had two step-children with his second marriage.\n"}
{"id": "31193541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31193541", "title": "Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988", "text": "Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988\n\nThe Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (, ) is a major law of the so-called \"War on Drugs\" passed by the U.S. Congress which did two significant things:\n\nThe change from the Act of 1986 to the Act of 1988 concerns the mandatory minimum penalties to drug trafficking conspiracies and attempts that previously were applicable only to substantive completed drug trafficking offenses. The Act amended 21 U.S.C. 844 to make crack cocaine the only drug with a mandatory minimum penalty for a first offense of simple possession. The Act made possession of more than five grams of a mixture or substance containing cocaine base punishable by at least five years in prison. The five year minimum penalty also applies to possession of more than three grams of cocaine base if the defendant has a prior conviction for crack cocaine possession, and to possession of more than one gram of crack if the defendant has two or more prior crack possession convictions.\n\nThe Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 also offers several other amendments to the Act of 1986. First, the organization and coordination of Federal drug control efforts. Next, the reduction of drug demand through increased treatment and prevention efforts. Also, the reduction of illicit drug trafficking and production abroad. Lastly, sanctions designed to place added pressure on the drug user. The ADAA projected budget for these amendments was $6.5 billion for the 1989 fiscal year”. The result of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 was not foreseen. “After spending billions of dollars on law enforcement, doubling the number of arrests and incarcerations, and building prisons at a record pace, the system has failed to decrease the level of drug-related crime. Placing people in jail at increasing rates has had little long-term effect on the levels of crime”.\n\nThe H.R. 5210 legislation was passed by the 100th U.S. Congressional session and enacted into law by the 40th President of the United States Ronald Reagan on November 18, 1988.\n\nThe media campaign mentioned in the act later became the National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign.\n\n"}
{"id": "30162660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30162660", "title": "Augusta University Medical Center", "text": "Augusta University Medical Center\n\nAugusta University Health is an academic health center that manages the clinical operations associated with Augusta University. It is a health care network that offers primary, specialty and sub-specialty care in the Augusta, Georgia area and throughout the Southeastern United States.\n\nAugusta University Health’s facilities include:\n\nThe hospital has received several awards.\n\nThe Breast Health Center was named Augusta's only Breast Imaging Center of Excellence by the American College of Radiology in 2011.\n\nThe Kidney Transplant Excellence Award from Healthgrades was awarded in 2009 and 2010. GRMC was one of 10 kidney transplant programs to receive the distinction.\n\nThe Children's Hospital of Georgia (CHOG) is a 154-bed academic children's hospital, and is the only children's hospital in the Augusta area. CHOG provides the highest level of neonatal intensive care and pediatric intensive care available as defined by the American Academy of Pediatrics. It is staffed by a team of pediatric specialists who deliver inpatient and outpatient care for everything from common childhood illnesses to life-threatening conditions like heart and neurological conditions and cancer.\n\nThe facility opened in 1998 as part of the Medical College of Georgia's 10 year master-plan expansion as the MCGHealth Children's Medical Center, and was renamed in 2013. The hospital is among the largest pediatric facilities in the United States.\n\nCHOG has an award-winning Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) program, which is considered a pioneer in this area, having started the first program in the Southeast in 1985, and having been designated a Center of Excellence in 2012.\n\nIn 1993, Augusta University Medical Center implemented a program in which patients and family members serve as advisers to the hospital in order to provide input that can lead to general quality improvement efforts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2676794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2676794", "title": "Boldo", "text": "Boldo\n\nPeumus boldus, the only species in the genus Peumus, is commonly known as boldo (from the Mapudungun name foḻo). This tree of the family Monimiaceae is natively endemic to the central region of Chile, occurring from 33° to 40° southern latitude. Boldo has also been introduced to Europe and North Africa, though it is not often seen outside botanical gardens.\n\nTogether with \"litre\", \"quillay\", \"peumo\", \"bollén\" and other indigenous plants, it is a characteristic component of the sclerophyllous forest endemic to central Chile. Its leaves, which have a strong, woody and slightly bitter flavor and camphor-like aroma, are used for culinary purposes, primarily in Latin America. The leaves are used in a similar manner to bay leaves and also used as an herbal tea, primarily in Chile, Bolivia, Argentina, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, Brazil and bordering countries in South America.\n\nAlthough not well known, boldo fruits, which appear between December and February, are very tasty, nutritious, small, green, edible spheres. Boldo's assertive flavor comes primarily from the presence of the chemical ascaridole, which is also present in the \"epazote\" plant.\n\nIn Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, and Paraguay boldo is mixed with \"yerba mate\" or other teas to moderate its flavor. Some families keep a boldo plant at home for this purpose, although boldo teabags are readily available in nearly all supermarkets.\n\nBoldo and plants with similar properties are widely used as mild folk medicine in various South American countries in both urban and rural areas, even among people who do not usually drink herbal teas other than mate beverage. Boldo is officially listed as phytotherapic plant as cholagogue and choleretic, for treatment of mild dyspepsia in Brazilian pharmacopoeia.\n\nBoldo is in the family Monimiaceae, which is closely related to the family Lauraceae (which includes many other plants used for their aromatic leaves, such as cinnamon, cassia, bay leaf, and camphor laurel.)\n\nIn 2009, the European Medicines Agency assessed boldo as follows:\n\nBoldo leaf contains the alkaloid boldine. Boldo leaf also contains 2-4% of volatile oil. Major constituents reported as: ascaridole (16-38%), 1,8-cineole (11-39%) and p-Cymene (9-29%). Ascaridole is highly toxic, and this raises concerns about the suitability of boldo leaf in traditional herbal medicinal products.\n\nAbortifacient and teratogenic effects in rats were observed with very high doses (800 mg/kg) of a dry ethanolic extract of boldine in the first days of pregnancy, not present at lower doses.\n\nMost investigations have been carried out using boldine. Limited information is available on herbal preparations of boldo leaf and where studies have been reported, details of the preparations are usually lacking. There are no reported genotoxicity or carcinogenicity studies with herbal preparations of boldo leaf.\n\nBoldo oil should not be used internally or externally. Where boldo leaf is used, the total exposure to ascaridole should be considered from a safety standpoint. The levels of ascaridole in herbal medicinal products should be quantified. In view of the low solubility of ascaridole in water the use of aqueous extracts including herbal teas could be accepted. The use of ethanolic extracts of boldo leaf is not considered acceptable for traditional herbal medicinal products in view of the potentially higher levels of the toxic ascaridole constituent.\n\n"}
{"id": "28304166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28304166", "title": "Brenham State Supported Living Center", "text": "Brenham State Supported Living Center\n\nThe Brenham State Supported Living Center (formerly Brenham State School) is a state-operated living center for disabled people along Texas State Highway 36 in Brenham, Texas. It is operated by the Texas Department of Aging and Disability Services.\n\nIn 1969 the 61st Texas Legislature passed the General Appropriations Act, establishing the Brenham State School. Originally it was operated by the Texas Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation.\n\n"}
{"id": "12107939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12107939", "title": "British Society of Clinical Hypnosis", "text": "British Society of Clinical Hypnosis\n\nThe British Society of Clinical Hypnosis (BSCH) is an organization composed of professional hypnotherapists.\n\nThe main objective the BSCH is to establish standards of training and ethical practice regarding the use of hypnosis and hypnotherapy; within the United Kingdom there are (2010) currently no statutory regulations regarding hypnosis. The society was created in the early 1980s and was originally called the Association of Clinical Hypnotherapists. This name was subsequently changed to the British Society of Clinical Hypnotherapists, until finally becoming the British Society of Clinical Hypnosis in 1996.\n\nIt is a non-profit organisation. Though predominantly a UK-based organisation, the society has members in several Commonwealth countries, particularly Malaysia and Singapore, but also members in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and South Africa as well as other EU countries including the Republic of Ireland, Portugal, France, Germany and Italy.\n\nThe society maintains a searchable database of therapists qualified to society standards and a helpline, which is open during office hours.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10824140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10824140", "title": "Canadian Indigenous Nurses Association", "text": "Canadian Indigenous Nurses Association\n\nThe Canadian Indigenous Nurses Association (CINA) is a non-governmental, non-profit organization. It is an affiliate group of the Canadian Nurses Association. The CINA is the only professional nursing organization for Indigenous peoples in Canada and was formerly known as the Aboriginal Nurses Association of Canada. Ann Thomas Callahan, a Cree Canadian nurse, was involved in its creation, and the association presented her with a Lifetime Achievement Award in 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21451855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21451855", "title": "Charles Dettie Aaron", "text": "Charles Dettie Aaron\n\nCharles Dettie Aaron (8 May 1866 -1951) was an American gastroenterologist from Detroit remembered for Aaron's sign, an indicator of appendicitis.\n\nAaron, Charles Dettie. Diseases Of The Digestive Organs, first published 1915\n\n"}
{"id": "34148331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34148331", "title": "Edith Hirsch Luchins", "text": "Edith Hirsch Luchins\n\nEdith Hirsch Luchins (21 December 1921 Brzeziny, Poland – 18 November 2002 Suffern, New York) was a Polish-American mathematician. Her work focused on applying mathematical principles to problems in the philosophy of science and psychology, most notably in the field of Gestalt psychology. The Luchins and Luchins' Water Jar Experiment is named after her and psychologist Abraham S. Luchins.\n\nEdith Hirsch was born in 1921 in Poland. She emigrated to the United States at age six, settling with her family in New York City. In high school Hirsch excelled at mathematics, tutoring other students and assisting teachers with grading. She earned her B.A from Brooklyn College in 1942 and her M.A. from NYU in 1944. She obtained her Ph.D. from University of Oregon in 1957 with her dissertation \"On Some Properties of Certain Banach Algebras.\"\n\nFrom 1942 to 1943, Luchins worked for the government as an inspector of anti-aircraft equipment at Sperry Gyroscope during World War II. Luchins began her doctoral studies at NYU under Kurt Friedrichs and Richard Courant as she began her teaching career at Brooklyn College. She put her formal studies on hold for several years for personal reasons; however, she continued to conduct research and publish papers in educational mathematics alongside her academic husband.\n\nAfter obtaining her doctorate in 1957, Luchins again pursued teaching, teaching for four years at the University of Miami before being appointed as an associate professor at Rensselaer Polytechnic in 1962. In 1970, she became the first female full professor at Rensselaer, where she remained until her retirement in 1992. Luchins remained active in research until her death.\n\nLuchins was a member of the Mathematical Association of America, the American Mathematical Society, the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, the American Education Research Association, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.\n\nLuchins' success in teaching and advising students was recognized throughout her career by the Rensselaer Distinguished Teaching Award, the Darrin Counseling Award, the Martin Luther King Jr Award, and the Rensselaer Alumni Association Outstanding Faculty Award. In 1998, Luchins accepted an honorary membership in the Society for Gestalt Theory and its Applications.\n\nIn 1942 she married Abraham Luchins, an educational psychologist. The couple had five children together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "784032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=784032", "title": "Enzyte", "text": "Enzyte\n\nEnzyte is an herbal nutritional supplement originally manufactured by Berkeley Premium Nutraceuticals. The marketing of Enzyte resulted in a conviction and prison term for the company's owner and bankruptcy of the company. The product is now marketed by Vianda, LLC of Cincinnati, Ohio. The manufacturer has claimed that Enzyte promotes \"natural male enhancement,\" which is a euphemism for enhancing erectile function. However, its effectiveness has been called into doubt and the claims of the manufacturer have been under scrutiny from various state and federal organizations. Kenneth Goldberg, medical director of the Male Health Center at Baylor University, says, \"It makes no sense medically. There's no way that increasing blood flow to the penis, as Enzyte claims to do, will actually increase its size.\"\n\nIn March 2005, following thousands of consumer complaints to the Better Business Bureau, federal agents raided Berkeley facilities, gathering material that resulted in a 112-count criminal indictment. The company's founder and CEO, Steven M Warshak and his mother, Harriet Warshak, were found guilty of conspiracy to commit mail fraud, bank fraud, and money laundering, and in September 2008 they were sentenced to prison and ordered to forfeit $500 million in assets. The convictions and fines forced the company into bankruptcy, and in December 2008 its assets were sold for $2.75 million to investment company Pristine Bay, which continued operations.\n\nEnzyte is widely advertised on U.S. television as \"the once daily tablet for natural male enhancement.\" The commercials feature a character known as \"Smilin' Bob,\" acted out by Canadian actor Andrew Olcott, who, in the commercials, always wears a smile that is implied to be caused by the enhancing effects of Enzyte; these advertisements feature double entendres. Some such commercials also feature an equally smiling \"Mrs. Bob.\" (Olcott, who was married and a father in real life, was also a visual artist, and he later owned and operated a small advertising firm.)\n\nBecause Enzyte is an herbal product, no testing is required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. An official of the Federal Trade Commission division that monitors advertising says the lack of scientific testing is \"a red flag right away. There's no science behind these claims.\" The company has conceded that it has no scientific studies that substantiate any of its Enzyte claims.\n\nIra Sharlip, a spokesman for the American Urological Association, has said, \"There is no such thing as a penis pill that works. These are all things that are sold for profit. There's no science or substance behind them.\"\n\nEnzyte's formulation was reportedly developed for Vianda by Marilyn Barrett.\n\nEnzyte is said to contain:\n\nMost of the above ingredients are commonly available as over the counter herbal or dietary supplements, and most have anecdotal reports, but marginal or unproven scientific evidence, of efficacy on various systems in the human body. Several of the herbal ingredients are included only in very low quantities.\n\nOne notable ingredient, yohimbe, was included in the original formulation of Enzyte, produced until at least 2004; however, as yohimbe's legal status in Canada is unclear, Enzyte produced after 2004 no longer contains yohimbe extract.\n\nAdditionally, zinc is an ingredient in Enzyte. Some men who have low zinc levels in their body have had success using zinc supplements to treat erection problems.\n\nCurrently, the effectiveness of Enzyte is unproven.\n\nA civil lawsuit alleged Enzyte does not work as advertised. Despite manufacturer claims that Enzyte will increase penis size, girth, and firmness and improve sexual performance, there exists no scientific evidence that Enzyte is capable of making good on these claims. In fact, Enzyte has never been scientifically tested by the FDA or other independent third party. Accordingly, Enzyte is required by current U.S. law to be marketed as an herbal supplement and may not legally be called a drug. In keeping with FTC rulings, Enzyte is not allowed to claim these benefits in its advertising. However, as of June 2010, TV commercials for the product still use the phrase \"natural male enhancement.\"\n\nThousands of consumer complaints were made to the Better Business Bureau about the company's business practices, especially the \"autoship\" program that repeatedly charged customers' credit cards for refills even after they canceled their orders. Federal agents raided Berkeley facilities in March 2005, gathering material that led to criminal charges. On September 21, 2006, Berkeley Premium Nutraceuticals; its owner and president, Steve Warshak; and five other individuals were indicted by the United States, Southern District of Ohio, U.S. Attorney Greg Lockhart, on charges of conspiracy, money laundering, and mail, wire, and bank fraud. The indictment alleged that the company defrauded consumers and banks of US$100 million. The United States Food and Drug Administration, Internal Revenue Service, United States Postal Inspection Service, and other agencies participated in the investigation. The federal fraud trial began on January 8, 2008.\n\nIn testimony during the trial, a former executive with Berkeley testified that the enhancements the company claimed were achieved by use of Enzyte were fabricated, and the company defrauded customers by continuing to charge them for additional shipments of the supplement. He further testified that company employees were instructed to make it as difficult as possible for unhappy customers to receive refunds.\n\nOn February 22, 2008, Steven \nWarshak was found guilty of 93 counts of conspiracy, fraud, and money laundering. On August 27, 2008, he was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Arthur Spiegel to 25 years in prison and ordered to pay $93,000 in fines. Warshak was an inmate at the Federal Correctional Institution in Elkton, Ohio. His company, Berkeley Premium Nutraceuticals, along with other defendants, was ordered to forfeit $500 million. His 75-year-old mother, Harriet Warshak, was sentenced to two years in prison but released on bond pending appeal after turning over her house, bank accounts, and other assets related to her crimes.\n\nBoth Steven and Harriet Warshak appealed their convictions. The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in \"United States v. Warshak\" (6th Cir. Dec. 14, 2010) 631 F.3d 266, upheld Steven Warshak's convictions and all convictions against Harriet Warshak except for money laundering and vacated their sentences, remanding the sentencing to the lower court.\n\nOn September 21, 2011, Steven Warshak's sentence was reduced from 25 years to 10 years. With credit for time served, he could be out in five years. His mother's sentence was reduced from two years to one day, and she never served any time in jail. Factors in reducing the sentence were that the amount of total loss by customers may have been less than $400 million and that the sentences of co-defendants were only two years. Warshak was released from prison on June 14, 2017 according to the Federal Prison Inmate Locator system.\n\nThe Warshaks' convictions and fines forced the company into bankruptcy. In December 2008, its assets were acquired from bankruptcy court for $2.75 million by investment company Pristine Bay, which is affiliated with Cincinnati developer Chuck Kubicki. Kubicki said he wanted to save the jobs of the company's 200 employees and retain a major tenant in one of his properties in suburban Cincinnati at Forest Park, Ohio. He said he would change the company name but would keep the brand. In March 2009, Hamilton County commissioners unanimously voted to give a $195,000 property tax break to the company based on projected jobs.\n\nOn June 26, 2009, the company name was changed to Vianda LLC. In a press release, the company announced plans to expand, hiring as many as 400 additional workers. On December 14, 2009, Cincinnati Business Courier reported employment of 180, revision of sales projections of 400% growth to $120 million downward to an estimated 33% growth to $40 million, management team changes, and continued customer complaints of improper billing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15865418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15865418", "title": "Exposure action value", "text": "Exposure action value\n\nAn Exposure Action Value (EAV) or Action Value (AV) is a limit set on occupational exposure to noise where, when those values are exceeded, employers must take steps to monitor the exposure levels. These levels are measured in decibels. The American Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) set the EAV to 85 dB(A). When the eight-hour time-weighted average (TWA) reaches 85 dB(A), employers are required to administer a continuing, effective hearing conservation program. The program consists of monitoring, employee notification, observation, an audiometric testing program, hearing protectors, training programs, and record keeping requirements.\n\nThe purpose of the EAV is to ensure that employees are not suffering from high levels of noise exposure. OSHA requires employers to take steps to reduce exposure levels when the TWA reaches 90 dB(A). The EAV is to ensure that the exposure levels do not reach 90 dB(A) or more. It is also to ensure that employees are not experiencing noise-induced hearing loss.\n\nA noise dosimeter is used to measure noise exposures to employees. Dosimeters can be used to determine the TWA. If it is determined that levels of noise exposure have reached the EAV, employers are required to implement a hearing conservation program. The hearing conservation program consists of many different aspects.\n\nThe first aspect is monitoring. The employer is required to monitor noise exposure for all of its employees who may be exposed at a TWA at or above 85 dB(A). This is to identify employees for inclusion in the hearing conservation program and to enable the proper selection of hearing protectors.\n\nThe second aspect is the audiometric testing program. Employees exposed to levels at or above the EAV will undergo audiometric testing. The first test is called a baseline. It provides a standard to compare future audiometric tests to. If a significant change in hearing capabilities occurs (called a standard threshold shift) greater steps must be taken to ensure the employee is protected from high levels of noise exposure.\n\nThe third aspect is the implementation of hearing protection. Employers must make hearing protection available to all employees who are exposed to noise levels of 85 dB(A) or greater. This is to be at no cost to employees. Employees can pick whichever type of hearing protection they prefer. This also requires an ongoing evaluation of the hearing protection.\n\nThe fourth aspect is a training program. The training program must cover the effects of noise on hearing, the purpose of hearing protection, and the purpose of audiometric testing.\n\nThe last aspect is record keeping. Records of employee audiometric tests must be retained for two years. This information must also be available to the employees.\n\nJust like the Exposure Action Value or Action Value for noise, safety administrations across the world are publishing values for vibrations. As of right now, The American Occupational Safety and Health Administration has not officially published a list of appropriate, time-weighted EAV guidelines for employers to follow. However, companies in the United States are encouraged by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health to follow the vibration limits set up by the ACGIH, which publishes a \"Threshold Limit Value\" or \"TLV\" in their annual book of TLVs and BEIs. The goal is for employers to have these numbers in order to make a conscious effort to lower the amount of harmful exposure absorbed by their workers. Since the link from physical vibration to damage caused by Raynaud's phenomenon is less clearly defined between the EAV for noise and noise-induced hearing loss, an upper extreme limit \"Exposure Limit Value\" or \"ELV\" is provided as well to give a margin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37816431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37816431", "title": "Functional approach", "text": "Functional approach\n\nThe Functional Approach is considered to be the second paradigm of psychology. This idea focuses on the function of the mental processes which involves consciousnesses. (Gordon, 1995) This approach was developed by William James in 1890. James was the first American Psychologist and wrote the first general textbook regarding psychology. In this approach he reasoned that the mental act of consciousness must be an important biological function (Schacter et al., 2011) He also noted that it was a psychologist's job to understand these functions so they can discover how the mental process operates. This idea was an alternative approach to the structuralism, which was the first paradigm(Gordon, 1995). \n\nIn second language acquisition (SLA) functional approaches are of similarities with Chomsky's Universal Grammar (UG). Focus is on the use of language in real situations (performance), as well as underlying knowledge (competence).\n\n"}
{"id": "31616717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31616717", "title": "GTx Incorporated", "text": "GTx Incorporated\n\nGTx, Inc is a pharmaceutical company that is working on drugs in the selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) and selective androgen receptor modulator (SARM) classes. Its drugs in development include enobosarm (ostarine) and GTx-758.\n\nThe company was founded in Memphis in 1997 by Mitch Steiner and Marc S. Hanover. The company was originally called Genotherapeutics, changed its name to GTx, Inc. in 2001, and reincorporated in Delaware in 2003. The company licensed toremifene from Orion Corporation, and licensed andarine, enobosarm and prostarine from the University of Tennessee Research Foundation; the SARM compounds from Tennessee had been invented by Karen Veverka and Michael Whitt and each later joined the company. The company held its IPO in February 2004.\n\nIn 2006 GTx signed a partnership with Ipsen to develop toremifene, a selective estrogen receptor modulatorm to prevent prostate cancer and to prevent bone loss in men with prostate cancer; the FDA rejected the application to market the drug for this use in 2009, and Ipsen terminated the arrangement in 2011. In 2012 GTx sold its rights to toremifene to ProStrakan, a subsidiary of Kyowa Hakko Kirin, for around $19 million, and terminated its agreement with Orion.\n\nBy 2007 enobosarm was in a Phase II trial, and that year Gtx signed an exclusive license agreement for its SARM program with Merck; Merck bought $30M in GtX stock, paid an upfront fee of $40M, and agreed to fund $15M in research over the next three years. The agreement also included royalties on any product brought to market and around $400M in biodollars. The companies ended the deal in 2010.\n\nIn August 2013 GTx announced that enobosarm had failed in two Phase III clinical trials to treat wasting in people with lung cancer. In October 2013 the company laid off around 60% of its 88 person workforce, and Steiner resigned 6 months later. The company had invested around $35 million in the development of the drug. The company said at that time that is planned to pursue approval of enobosarm in Europe; the company was also still developing GTx-758 for castration-resistant prostate cancer.\n\nIn 2016 GTx began Phase II trials, to see if enosobarm might be effective to treat stress uninary incontinence in women.\n"}
{"id": "20464593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20464593", "title": "Gamelan Council", "text": "Gamelan Council\n\nThe Gamelan Council – Asia-Pacific Microfinance, Public Health & Development Centre (Gamelan Council) is an international non-governmental, non-profit initiative addressing the microfinance, public health, and international development needs of communities in, on, and around the Pacific Rim. For these purposes, the Gamelan Council views the Asia-Pacific region quite broadly in line with APEC; the jurisdictions covered are claimed to account for approximately 65% of the world's population. The Council’s activities, which include conducting research, making investments, and providing education and advice, are centrally coordinated.\n\nThe Gamelan Council is an offshoot of the Global Consulting Group (GCG), a non-profit, non-partisan consulting firm created under the aegis of Global Student Response (GSR) and focused on supporting international development efforts which has since been disbanded. As GCG’s efforts became more geographically focused on the Asia-Pacific region and thematically focused on microfinance and public health developmental issues, the Gamelan Council formed to focus specifically on these areas.\n\nThe name of the organization is a combination of the Indonesian word referring to a music ensemble, ‘Gamelan,’ and an English word referring to a Native American, community-fostering ritual, ‘Council’ (the same term used to refer commonly to a group of individuals providing advice and counsel). These two terms capture the Gamelan Council’s goal of harmoniously unifying the arrays of forces and ideas affecting the areas on which the Gamelan Council focuses its efforts.\n\nThe Gamelan Council operates predominantly in 73 states and territories on, near, and around the Pacific Rim, including every jurisdiction with a coastline on the Pacific Ocean and several other, significant population centres adjacent to or closely linked to the Pacific Rim (e.g., India, Nepal, and Pakistan). In 2010, the Gamelan Council also commenced pilot projects in both (a) Central Asia (i.e., Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan) and (b) South America (i.e., Paraguay, Uruguay, Guyana, and Suriname) which complement its other activities centered on the Pacific Rim.\n\nThese jurisdictions are divided into three main geographic groups and are listed below, organized generally by geography (i.e., Americas from north to south; Asia from west to north and then south; and Oceania from west to east):\n\nThe Gamelan Council focuses on three main sets of activities addressing microfinance, public health, and international development issues. These include (a) research (e.g., conducting targeted studies of trends in the microfinance, public health, and international development sectors); (b) investment (e.g., raising capital to support successful Asia-Pacific microfinance providers and assisting entrepreneurs developing new technologies addressing basic needs throughout the Asia-Pacific region); and (c) education and advice (e.g., developing seminars, providing consulting services to social entrepreneurs, and coordinating conferences on microfinance, public health, and international development in the Asia-Pacific region).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44499867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44499867", "title": "Gilbert Primrose (surgeon)", "text": "Gilbert Primrose (surgeon)\n\nGilbert Primrose (c.1535 -18 April 1616) was a Scottish surgeon who became Surgeon to King James VI of Scots and moved with the court to London as Serjeant-Surgeon to King James VI and I on the Union of the Crowns. He was Deacon of the Incorporation of Surgeons and Barbers of Edinburgh on three occasions.\n\nGilbert Primrose was born c.1535, at Culross, Fife, Scotland. He was the son of Duncan Primrose, of the Primroses of that Ilk and Helen Primrose, and was a member of the family from which the Earls of Rosebery are descended. On 6 June 1558 he was admitted to the Incorporation of Surgeons and Barbers of Edinburgh as apprentice to Robert Henrysoun, one of the founder members of the Incorporation.\n\nThe name Gilbert Primrose first appears in the Edinburgh burgh records in 1558 when Scotland was threatened by an invasion from “the auld inemies of Ingland”. The craft guilds were required to list those men who could be mustered in the event of an attack and Gilbert Primrose was one of the 27 nominated by the Incorporation. Primrose went on to become Surgeon to King James VI of Scotland. He was a friend of Dr Peter Lowe, the co-founder of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow, who dedicated the first edition (1597) of his surgical textbook \"The Whole course of Chirurgerie\" (which was renamed \"Discourse of the Whole Art of Chirurgerie\" for the 2nd and 3rd editions) to Gilbert Primrose. \nHe was subsequently elected Deacon of the Incorporation of Surgeons and Barbers on no fewer than three occasions. Whilst he was Deacon in 1581 the Surgeons became first in the order of precedence of the 14 crafts of the City of Edinburgh. \nWhen he was elected Deacon for the third time in 1602 his status was such that he was able to impose considerable discipline on the Incorporation. Under his leadership all members of the Incorporation swore that they would uphold all aspects of the Seal of Cause (the Charter of the Incorporation) and any violations were punished. Primrose was also responsible for passing new Laws which sought to maintain even higher standards within the craft. Admission and examination fees were established and each member of the Incorporation was required to pay a subscription. The Incorporation thrived under his leadership. \nAs principal surgeon to King James VI he accompanied the Court to London on the Union of the Crowns in 1603. He became Serjeant-Surgeon or chief surgeon to the King, now James VI and I and Queen Anne.\n\nWhilst the names of the earliest members of the Incorporation appear in the Edinburgh Burgh records, the assignation of a roll number for Members and Fellows starts from 1581 when the Deacon of the Incorporation was Gilbert Primrose. His name is first in the Roll of Fellows which has continued in an uninterrupted sequence ever since.\n\nSurgeons’ Hall Museum has a treasured relic of Gilbert Primrose. It is labelled “a replica of the mortar used by Gilbert Primrose, an ancestor of the Earl of Rosebery and a Deacon of the Chirurgeon-Barbers in 1581”. This mortar was presented to the College by Archibald Primrose, 5th Earl of Rosebery, a descendant of Gilbert Primrose in December 1909. The original is held in the National Museums of Scotland.\n\nHis brother Archibald Primrose became 1st Laird of Burnbrae. Other brothers included David Primrose, Henry Primrose, Duncan Primrose and Peter Primrose.\nHe married Alison Graham. Their son Gilbert Primrose (c1580–1641) became a Calvinist pastor. Other children included Dame Marion Primrose (1566-1637), David Primrose and Robert Primrose.\n\nGilbert Primrose died at Westminster, London on April 18, 1616 but was buried in Greyfriars Churchyard, Edinburgh where his monument stands to this day. His grave carries the Latin inscription translated as:To Gilbert Primrose, Chief Surgeon to James and Anne, King and Queen of Great Britain, France and Ireland. His heirs erected this monument. He lived happily 80 years. To the end of his life he was Chief Surgeon to the King, and died, adorned with testimonials of public sorrow from Prince and people, in the year of our Lord 1616 on the 8th of April.\nGreat Gilbert Primrose shut his mortal eyes\n\nFull fraught with honours as with length of days\n\nMy will and life to Christ I still resign'd\n\nHence neither life nor death did bitter find\n"}
{"id": "40263841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40263841", "title": "Global Alliance on Health and Pollution", "text": "Global Alliance on Health and Pollution\n\nThe GAHP (Global Alliance on Health and Pollution) is an international collaborative body working to help low- and middle-income countries deal with toxic hotspots and solve environmental health problems. These toxic locations suffer greatly from pollution-related diseases. \"The group will work with governments to clean-up toxic hotspots where children, especially, are being poisoned. It could also respond to emergencies such as a recent lead poisoning outbreak in Nigeria that killed hundreds of children.\" \n\nOn October, 19, 2017, GAHP in collaboration with The Lancet and the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, published the Lancet Commission on Pollution and Health in The Lancet. The aim of the Commission is to minimize air, soil and water pollution by communicating the substantial economic and health costs of pollution globally, providing realizable solutions to policy-makers.\n\n\"This is a larger problem than most people are aware of. Some of the research coming out now finds that the amount of health damage caused by chemicals in toxic hotspots is as significant as that of malaria or tuberculosis.\"—Richard Fuller, President, Pure Earth (Blacksmith Institute), Secretariat for the GAHP.\n\nThe GAHP is the first international alliance of its kind to respond to the threat of toxic pollution on a worldwide scale. The executive committee of the GAHP is based at the World Bank. Pure Earth (formerly known as the Blacksmith Institute, an NGO that works on cleaning up some of the world's worst polluted sites, serves as Secretariat for the GAHP.\n\nThe GAHP is made up of an international alliance of members that includes the World Bank,UNEP, UNDP, UNIDO, Asian Development Bank, the European Commission, the Ministries of Environment of several low- and middle-income countries, and other agencies. All GAHP members have an interest in fighting pollution. By banding together, GAHP members offer access to multiple lines of support and resources like a one-stop shop for pollution solutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1590355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1590355", "title": "Health Information Systems Programme", "text": "Health Information Systems Programme\n\nThe Health Information Systems Programme (HISP), aims to support the improvement of health care systems in the southern hemisphere by increasing the capacity of health care workers to make decisions based on accurate information. HISP provides training and support for users of the open source District Health Information System (DHIS 2) software, which is under continuous development. The global network of HISP is managed and coordinated by the Department of Informatics at the University of Oslo. \n\nThe project started in post-apartheid South Africa, and has been introduced in a number of countries in Africa and Asia. \n\n"}
{"id": "39157162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39157162", "title": "Healthcare in the Czech Republic", "text": "Healthcare in the Czech Republic\n\nThe Czech health care system is based on a compulsory insurance model, with fee-for-service care funded by mandatory employment-related insurance plans since 1992. According to the 2016 Euro health consumer index, a comparison of healthcare in Europe, the Czech healthcare is 13th, ranked behind Sweden and two positions ahead of the United Kingdom.\n\nIn the 1989-1992 period, the healthcare has faced substantial problems after the transition from Communist monopoly market to competitive market. From the past top-down centralized government system, the newly elected administrators enacted reforms designed to expand patient choice. From 1990 to 1998, deaths under one year of age shrank from 10.8 to 5.2 per thousand. Statistically, the Czech Republic is one of the healthiest of the central and eastern European countries, though some data points lag behind other Western European nations. The Republic has been a member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) since 1995.\n\nIn late 2000, professors of medicine Jan Holčík and Ilona Koupilová wrote for \"The International Journal of Integrated Care\",\nThe Czech healthcare system has a great degree of decentralization and market forces used in it compared to other European systems. According to the 2016 Euro health consumer index the Czech health system is the 13th most successful in Europe, ranked behind Sweden and two positions ahead of the United Kingdom.\n\nIn terms of administration, the healthcare system is based on a compulsory insurance model, with fee-for-service care funded by mandatory employment-related insurance plans since 1992. User fees have subsequently been reduced by more recent governments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1365544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1365544", "title": "Helen Keller International", "text": "Helen Keller International\n\nHelen Keller International (HKI) combats the causes and consequences of blindness and malnutrition by establishing programs based on evidence and research in vision, health and nutrition. Founded in 1915 by Helen Keller and George A. Kessler, the organization's mission is to save the sight and lives of the most vulnerable and disadvantaged.\n\nGeorge A. Kessler, also known as the \"Champagne King,\" was a passenger on the in 1915 when it was torpedoed by a German U-boat. When he was fighting for his life in the cold waters of the Atlantic off the coast of Ireland, he vowed that if he survived, he would devote much of his time and substantial financial resources to a worthwhile cause. The cause he chose was assisting Allied soldiers blinded in the service. He later befriended Helen Keller and helped found the organization that became Helen Keller International.\n\nHKI's two major areas of expertise are Eye Health and Nutrition. Its Eye Health programs address the major causes of blindness in the world, including cataract, trachoma and onchocerciasis, and treating refractive error. Its nutrition programs include vitamin A, iron/folate, and multi-micronutrient supplementation, fortification of commonly used foods, dietary diversification, community- and school-gardening as well as school health activities, the promotion of breastfeeding and complementary feeding, and nutritional surveillance to provide critical data to governments and other development partners. Each year, HKI's programs benefit millions of people.\n\nCurrently, HKI works in 21 countries around the world in Africa, Asia and the United States. Global headquarters are located in New York City, and programs are also developed and administered through regional offices, currently located in Senegal and Phnom Penh, as well as through 19 country offices and an additional development office in Paris. HKI has country offices in Burkina Faso, Bangladesh, Cameroon, Cambodia, Côte d'Ivoire, China, Guinea, Indonesia, Mali, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Philippines, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, and Vietnam.\n\nHelen Keller International has received the 2014 BBVA Foundation Frontiers of Knowledge Award in the Development Cooperation category for agricultural programs that help families and villages to raise their own nutritious foods. \"Hunger and low dietary diversity reduce cognitive function, physical capacity, resistance to disease and quality of life and lifetime earnings. Heller Keller International champions Homestead Food Production, an innovative, interdisciplinary program that promotes improved agricultural and nutritional practices in a synergistic fashion. This approach is mostly applied to communities that have difficult access to labor and food markets,\" in the words of the jury's citation.\n\nHelen Keller International has launched and completed several initiatives to combat malnutrition and blindness in Bangladesh.\n\nThis programme was started by HKI in 1990 to monitor the health impact of severe flooding in Bangladesh. It is a collaborative effort which involves the Government of Bangladesh (GOB), international and local Non-Governmental Organisations (NGO). The programme essentially provides up-to-date and dependable information on the prevalence of malnutrition and morbidity in children, household socioeconomic characteristics and food prices. Data are collected by authorities in selected rural districts and urban slums in the country. The NSP data have also been used by the GOB to improve or develop nutrition and health programmes such as the national vitamin A capsule distribution program. NSP has proven to be an excellent tool to aid long-term planning in health policies, to provide input for programme management and evaluation and to give timely warning of the need for intervention to prevent critical deterioration in food consumption.\n\nDiabetic retinopathy is a leading cause of blindness. Heller Keller International helps prepare health care systems to identify and treat Diabetic Retinopathy. In collaboration with Chittagong Eye Infirmary and Training Complex and the Diabetes Association of Bangladesh, HKI began a pilot project in 2009 to improve patients' access to sight-saving Diabetic Retinopathy treatment regardless of their ability to pay.\n\nThis programme aims to reduce malnutrition and increase food availability through creation of home gardens and small farms for raising livestock. In collaboration with local NGOs, HKI provides the seedlings, chicks, start up materials and technical skills to communities. Varieties of fruits and vegetables are grown in these home gardens to provide supplies of nutrient rich foods all year round. The objectives are to increase participants' micro-nutritional intakes by consuming a wider variety of foods, develop communities and empower women.\n\nHFP started in 1990 as a pilot project in Bangladesh with 1000 households participating. It includes nutrition education to complement home gardening. Following initial success, HKI launched the NGO Gardening and Nutrition Education Surveillance Project (NGNESP) which expanded the programme to communities across the country in 1993. By 2012, 900,000 households and 4.5 million people are participating in the project, with the help of 52 local NGOs. Women organise 90% of the gardens.\n\nA 2002 research shows that in a 3 months period, households participating in the HFP consumed had a daily per capita consumption of vegetables of 160g, more than double of the 71g for non-participating households.\n\nVitamin A deficiency causes blindness and increases mortality rate for young children and women. The deficiency can be prevented with two doses of high potency Vitamin A capsules every year. With the cost of providing the capsules at $1 per person per year, Vitamin A supplementation is a cost-efficient initiative.\n\nHKI started the Vitamin A supplementation project in Bangladesh in 1978. Its partnership with the GOB began in 1982. The Bangladesh Nutritional Blindness Study was conducted, and it indicated that there was a high prevalence of vitamin A deficiency. By 2005, Vitamin A deficiency among children 12 to 59 months, as measured by prevalence of night blindness, has decreased to 0.04% from 3.76% in 1982.\n\nKathy Spahn is President and Chief Executive Officer, joining in March 2005. Prior to HKI, Ms. Spahn was President and Executive Director of Orbis, a global non-profit organization dedicated to the prevention and treatment of blindness in the developing world.\n\nHelen Keller International is a partner in Compact2025, a partnership that develops and disseminates evidence-based advice to politicians and other decision-makers aimed at ending hunger and undernutrition in the coming 10 years, by 2025. HKI is represented on the Leadership Council of Compact2025 by its president Kathy Spahn.\n"}
{"id": "2363157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2363157", "title": "Hermes Binner", "text": "Hermes Binner\n\nHermes Juan Binner (born June 5, 1943) is an Argentine physician and a politician. He was elected Governor of Santa Fe in 2007. Binner is the first Socialist to become the governor of an Argentine province, and the first non-Justicialist to rule Santa Fe since 1983.\n\nBinner was previously a Deputy of the Civic and Social Progressive Front, a Santa Fe party coalition including the Socialist Party, the Radical Civic Union and other left-wing parties, since the parliamentary elections of October 23, 2005.\n\nBinner was born and raised in Rafaela, Santa Fe Province, to a Swiss Argentine family. He attended primary school at St. Joseph's College, and then attended high school at the Rafaela National College, where he began his political activity through participation in the Student Center. At the time (1958) the need for public free non-religious education was being hotly debated in Argentina.\n\nBinner moved to Rosario to study Medicine at the Universidad Nacional de Rosario. At 18 he became affiliated with the Argentine Socialist Party and continued to exercise an intense political activity, both as a member of the Student Center and at the institutional level in the Faculty of Medicine. After the 1966 coup d'état, he participated in the movements resisting the military dictatorship of General Juan Carlos Onganía, against a background of political and ideological persecution.\n\nHe graduated in 1970 and continued his militant activism as a Graduate Council Member at the University, as well as working as a union member at the Rosario Medical Association and the Physicians' College.\n\nGuillermo Estévez Boero and Binner co-founded the Popular Socialist Party (\"Partido Socialist Popular\", PSP) in Buenos Aires on April 23, 1972, a merger of the Argentine Socialist Party (PSA) with other left-wing groups.\n\nHe continued exercising his profession, taking up specialties in anesthesiology and occupational medicine, and starting studies in the field of public health. On the last account he obtained the posts of Sub-Director and Director of public hospitals.\n\nFollowing the 1989 economic crisis that led to the early handover of power by President Raúl Alfonsín to President-elect Carlos Menem, the UCR Mayor of Rosario Horacio Usandizaga resigned in protest, forcing anticipated municipal elections to be held. The Socialist Héctor Cavallero was elected, and he appointed Binner to the office of Public Health Secretary.\n\nAfter Cavallero's term, in 1993, Binner was elected \"concejal\" (member of the City Council) for the PSP. From this platform he developed a trajectory that led him to present himself as a candidate for the municipal elections of 1995.\n\nBinner was elected Mayor of Rosario in 1995 and then re-elected in 1999, ending his second four-year term in 2003. He was candidate to the governorship of the province of Santa Fe, obtaining a larger percentage of the popular vote than any of the other candidates, but the controversial voting system in place at the time (\"Ley de Lemas\") caused the Socialist Party to lose the election to the Peronist Party.\n\nThe eight years of the Binner administration in Rosario were marked by several guidelines:\n\n\nOn December 8, 2003, months after the end of Binner's second term, the United Nations acknowledged the people and the government of Rosario as a model of democratic governance among 257 Latin American cities.\n\nHermes Binner was succeeded in office by one of his former municipal officials, Miguel Lifschitz, who has continued and developed the policies outlined above, and was re-elected in 2007.\n\nBinner is a member of the National Table of the Socialist Party and the Secretary General of the Santa Fe Federation for the same. He is also the director of the Rosario's Municipal and Provincial Studies Center, an institution for political and academic formation with professionals of diverse disciplines debating current issues and policies.\n\nBinner was a candidate for a seat in the National Chamber of Deputies (the Lower House of the Argentine Congress) for the Progressive, Civic and Social Front, a Santa Fe political coalition (which includes the Socialist Party (PS), members of the Radical Civic Union (UCR), Support for an Egalitarian Republic (ARI), Democratic Progressive Party, Communist Party and Peronist dissident) in the parliamentary elections of October 23, 2005. He won the seat, together with other six candidates of the Progressive Front, by a 10% margin over the list of candidates led by his closest competitor, the Justicialist Party candidate Agustín Rossi.\n\nBinner ran for governor of Santa Fe in 2007, together with former Santa Fe City federal prosecutor Griselda Tessio as vice-governor, against former chancellor and national deputy for Buenos Aires City Rafael Bielsa (chosen in primaries by the Justicialist Front for Victory). He was supported by the left-wing opposition leader Elisa Carrió, head of the ARI.\n\nBinner won the provincial election of September 2, 2007, by a significant margin (by 48% to 38%) over Bielsa. He was sworn in on December 11, becoming the first Socialist governor in the history of Argentina, and the first non-Justicialist to rule Santa Fe since 1983.\nDespite his opposition to the Peronist candidate, who was strongly supported by then-President Néstor Kirchner, Governor Binner maintained a fluid relationship with Kirchner and his wife and successor, President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner. Binner joined UCR Congressman Ricardo Alfonsín in the Civic and Social Agreement during the early stages of the 2011 general election campaign. Their alliance ended in May, however, and on June 11, Binner formally announced his candidacy for President of Argentina. He nominated Córdoba Province Senator Norma Morandini as his running mate on their Progressive Front ticket. Antonio Bonfatti, the Minister of Government and State Reform during Binner's tenure and a longtime friend and ally from their Medical School days, was elected to succeed Binner as Governor of Santa Fe in elections on July 24.\n\nOn June 11, 2011, the Socialist Congress vote the candidature for presidential elections: Hermes Binner - Norma Morandini. That candidature is in representation of the Broad Progressive Front, a grouping launched in Buenos Aires in June 2011. In this new alliance participated the Socialist Party, with other parts of the called \"democratic left\": Civic Front, GEN, Buenos Aires for Everyone, Movement of the free people of the south, Popular Union.\n\nOn August 14, 2011, in the primary elections for the presidency he came fourth with 11% of the votes. On October 23, 2011, in the General elections for the presidency he came second with 17% of the votes, behind Cristina Fernández.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27772631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27772631", "title": "Hiram M. Hiller Jr.", "text": "Hiram M. Hiller Jr.\n\nHiram Milliken Hiller Jr. (March 8, 1867 – August 8, 1921), was an American physician, medical missionary, explorer, and ethnographer. He traveled in Oceania and in South, Southeast, and East Asia, returning with archeological, cultural, zoological, and botanical specimens and data for museums, lectures and publications. His notes and collections provide valuable information about those regions and their people from the late 19th century. In later life, he was involved in the study of polio during the epidemics that hit the United States in the early 20th century.\n\nHe was born on March 8, 1867, near Kahoka, Missouri, to Colonel Hiram Milliken Hiller Sr. (1834–1895) and the former Sarah Fulton Bell (1837–1915), who were both from Pennsylvania. He was the third of their six children who survived to adulthood. The elder Hiller, a Civil War veteran and lawyer, was a prominent citizen of Clark County, Missouri, and was instrumental in the success of Kahoka until his death in a railroad accident. His house in Kahoka is a registered historic landmark.\n\nThe younger Hiller attended Parsons College in Iowa, earning his B.S. in 1887. He moved to Philadelphia to attend medical school at the University of Pennsylvania. While there, he met several other men of similar interests, including William Henry Furness III (1867–1920, the son of Shakespearean scholar Horace Howard Furness and nephew of architect Frank Furness), and Alfred Craven Harrison Jr. (1869–1925, nephew of Charles Custis Harrison, Provost of the University of Pennsylvania from 1894 to 1911). Hiller graduated in 1891 and served his residency at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital and at nearby Blockley Hospital. He traveled in Europe (1893–1894) and spent time in Boston, where he earned money for later adventures while studying at Harvard. Edward S. Morse, a Harvard zoologist, was giving lectures about Japan, then a subject of great fascination in the West, throughout Boston; Hiller appears to have been inspired by these.\n\nHiller, Furness, and Harrison embarked on a series of expeditions to East and Southeast Asia and Oceania. The three did not always travel together, and the records of their travels are fragmentary in places. Their first two voyages are the best-documented; the last voyage the worst.\n\nIn October 1895, Hiller, Furness, and Harrison left the United States, using their own money to search for the fabled Dayak headhunters of Borneo to collect ethnological specimens for the new University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology. On their way to the South Seas, they stopped at Yokohama, Amami, and Okinawa, among other places in Japan, arriving in Borneo after seven months of travel from the United States. They spent four months traveling and collecting in Borneo, although they did not always travel together. After leaving Borneo, they traveled to Singapore, Saigon, and China before returning to Japan, the Republic of Hawaii, and the United States. Hiller arrived in Kahoka on December 4, 1896.\n\nFive months later (May 1897), they were off to Borneo again. Traveling by way of Japan, Shanghai, Hong Kong, and Saigon, they returned to Singapore and used it as a base for a number of expeditions into such places as Kalimantan, Sarawak, British Malaya, and Tambak before returning the way they came. They returned in August or September 1898.\n\nUnlike their other expeditions, the third was an eastward journey. They sailed for England on June 14, 1899, traveling from London to Paris and Marseilles before boarding the \"Ernest Simon\" for Asia. The voyage took them through the Suez Canal and to Djibouti before arriving in Colombo, Ceylon. They traveled in Ceylon, India, Burma, and Australia before sailing for Hawaii (recently annexed by the United States) and Vancouver, circling the world before returning home in May 1900.\n\nTheir last voyage may have been somewhat restricted by the realities of life (the three were all over 30 by this point). Leaving Philadelphia in February 1901, they traveled to New Orleans and San Francisco before sailing for Honolulu and Yokohama aboard the \"Sir Coptic\". They extensively toured Japan, particularly Hokkaido. Hiller met Jenichiro Oyabe, a Japanese man who had been educated as a missionary at Yale University and Howard University. Oyabe served as a translator and a guide for a side-expedition to the Ainu people, and consequently Hiller amassed a large collection of the objects of Ainu daily life before proceeding to the East Indies. Once Hiller returned home, he stayed in contact with Oyabe, who wrote him friendly letters encouraging him to “tell the world about my beloved Ainu people.”\n\nHiller married Blanche Hays, of Bellefonte, Pennsylvania. The wilds of the jungle were no place for a civilized woman; his exploring days were over. Hiller managed a sugar plantation in Cuba for “a wealthy friend” (Harrison’s father was a sugar manufacturer, and Harrison entered his father’s business in 1902) from 1902 to about 1907 in order to make money to bankroll his return to Philadelphia and the establishment of a medical practice.\n\nThe Hillers settled in Rose Tree, at the north edge of Media, Pennsylvania. Hiller founded a clinic in nearby Chester for poor workers in the factories there. While there, he encountered a devastating outbreak of a disease that spread rapidly and paralyzed its victims, especially children. A few physicians in other towns were experiencing similar outbreaks. They communicated, shared experiences, and realized not only that they were dealing with the same disease (“infantile paralysis”), but that it was a form of polio, which apparently had taken a more damaging, virulent, epidemic form. The Hillers had two daughters, Margaret Linn and Virginia (“Ginny”).\n\nHiller died on August 8, 1921, in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, possibly from complications from polio. He is buried in Union Cemetery in Bellefonte. His widow moved with her daughters to Lower Merion, Pennsylvania, closer to Philadelphia, where she lived until her death in 1944.\n\nThanks in significant part to Hiller, the University Museum’s collection of Ainu artifacts is one of the largest in any museum, so much so that The Foundation for Research and Promotion of Ainu Culture (FRPAC) borrowed a sizable portion of the collection to display in the Ainu Craft Exhibition 2008 at the Niigata Prefectural Museum of History in Nagaoka City, Japan. The University Museum also holds 57 artifacts and 3 diaries Furness and Hiller brought back from Amami and Okinawa, and the university library has additional materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24487753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24487753", "title": "Iranian medical library and information science association", "text": "Iranian medical library and information science association\n\nIn August 1992 a workshop was established by World Health Organization and the investigation deputy of health and treatment ministry as well as medicinal education, the objective was to introduce “Iran’s health and biomedicine information plan” to the librarians of medical sciences.\n\nA comprehensive report was prepared and given to the investigation deputy of the health ministry. Objectives of the plan enforcement in Iran was described in details, it included 25 recommendations. There was a recommendation to establish the librarians’ scientific society and medical information center, the recommendation has been approved by the concerning authorities and the librarians at the meeting held on 16 August 1992, the librarians established a committee at the deputy investigation center of the ministry. Then the established committee began their jobs.\n\nThe committee members began their activities as the society founders. They composed the concerning charter including 32 clauses and 18 proviso, the expertise views were considered in the charter composition, the views of investigation deputy of health ministry who was the commission member for the scientific societies establishment were utilized too. The charter was formally approved on 24 April 1993, finally, the first general assembly of Iran’s Medical information center and the librarians’ scientific society was established on 15 June 1994 to select the first round Board of Directors.\n\n"}
{"id": "59007770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59007770", "title": "Kathy Hoffman", "text": "Kathy Hoffman\n\nKathy Hoffman is an Arizona Democratic politician who is the Arizona Superintendent of Public Instruction-elect, succeeding Diane Douglas in 2019.\n\nHoffman earned a bachelors degree in Japanese Studies at the University of Oregon in 2009 and a master's degree in speech-language pathology from the University of Arizona in 2013. She taught pre-school before beginning her career as a speech-language pathologist. Before running for office, Hoffman worked as a speech-language pathologist at Vail Unified School District and Peoria Unified School District. \n\nHoffman is fluent in both Japanese and Spanish.\n\nIn 2018, Hoffman defeated former Republican Congressman Frank Riggs in the race for Superintendent of Public Instruction, after Hoffman defeated former state senator David Schapira in the democratic primary in a surprise upset. She said she was inspired to run after watching the confirmation of Betsy DeVos as Secretary Education. Running as a clean elections candidate, Hoffman managed to out-raise her opponent 2-to-1.\n\n"}
{"id": "1817722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817722", "title": "Lipedema", "text": "Lipedema\n\nLipedema is a disorder where there is enlargement of both legs due to deposits of fat under the skin. Typically it gets worse over time, pain may be present, and sufferers bruise easily. In severe cases the trunk and upper body may be involved. Lipedema is commonly misdiagnosed. \nThe cause is unknown but is believed to involve genetics and hormonal factors. It often runs in families. Risk factors include being overweight or obese. Other conditions that may present similarly include obesity, lipohypertrophy, chronic venous insufficiency, and lymphedema.\nA number of treatments may be useful including physiotherapy and exercise. Physiotherapy may help to preserve mobility for a little longer than would otherwise be the case. Exercise, only as much as the patient is able to do without causing damage to the joints, may help with overall fitness but will not prevent progression of the disease. While surgery can remove fat tissue it can also damage lymphatic vessels. Treatment does not typically result in complete resolution. It is estimated to affect up to 11% of women. Onset is typically during puberty, pregnancy, or menopause.\n\nLipedema can be underdiagnosed due the difficulty in differentiating it from other edemas and obesity, or clinicians failing to make themselves aware of the disease. Trayes 2013 published some tools including tables and a flow chart that can be used to diagnose lipedema and other edemas.\n\nLipedema / Dercum’s Disease Differentiation\nThese conditions may co-exist. Dercum’s Disease is characterized by painful lipomas around the body.\n\nA number of treatments may be useful including physiotherapy and light exercise which does not put undue stress on the lymphatic system. While surgery can remove fat tissue it can also damage lymphatic vessels. Treatment does not typically result in complete resolution.\n\nThe use of surgery to treat the condition is controversial. Options include liposuction and lipectomy.\n\nThe studies of highest quality involve tumescent or super tumescent anesthesia and vibrating liposuction, powered, cannula used with lymph sparing techniques. The treatment of lipedema with tumescent liposuction requires multiple procedures. In the United States Health Insurance do not generally pay for liposuction for lipedema, making it expensive. Liposuction under general anesthesia, without tumescent anesthesia, can be damaging and is not recommended for the treatment.\n\nComplications include depression, anxiety, and pain.\n\nEstimates of the incidence of lipedema vary widely, and range as high as 11% of the post-pubertal female population, with estimates of 17 million women in the US, and 370 million women worldwide affected. \"11% of adult women\" is often cited but that is unsubstantiated.\n\nAlthough first identified in the United States, at the Mayo Clinic in 1940, lipedema is barely known in that country – to physicians or to the patients who have the disease. Lipedema often is confused with obesity, and a significant number of patients currently diagnosed as obese are believed to have lipedema, either instead of or in addition to obesity.\n\n"}
{"id": "46627764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46627764", "title": "List of abbreviations used in sanitation", "text": "List of abbreviations used in sanitation\n\nThis is a list of abbreviations and acronyms commonly used in the sanitation sector.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nReference list for entries without Wikipedia articles:\n"}
{"id": "40801317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40801317", "title": "Mabel Purefoy FitzGerald", "text": "Mabel Purefoy FitzGerald\n\nMabel Purefoy FitzGerald (3 August 1872 – 24 August 1973) was a British physiologist and clinical pathologist best known for her work on the physiology of respiration. She became the second female member of the American Physiological Society in 1913.\n\nMabel FitzGerald was born in 1872 in Preston Candover near Basingstoke. She was educated at home, as was typical for upper and middle class girls in her time. In 1895, both her parents died and Mabel moved to Oxford with her sisters in 1896. She began to teach herself chemistry and biology from books, as well as attending classes at Oxford University between 1896 and 1899, even though women were not yet allowed to receive degrees. She continued her studies at the University of Copenhagen, Cambridge University and New York University.\n\nFitzGerald began to work with Francis Gotch at the physiology department in Oxford. Gotch also helped her get a paper published by the Royal Society in 1906.\n\nFrom 1904, FitzGerald worked with John Scott Haldane on measuring the carbon dioxide tension in the human lung. After studying the differences between healthy and ill people, the two continued to investigate the effects of altitude on respiration; it is this work that they are most famous for. FitzGerald's observations of the effects of full altitude acclimatization on carbon dioxide tension and haemoglobin remain accepted today.\n\nIn 1907, FitzGerald was awarded a Rockefeller travelling scholarship, which allowed her to work in New York and Toronto.\n\nIn 1911 she participated, along with C. Gordon Douglas and several other scientists, in a Colorado expedition led by John Scott Haldane to investigate human respiration at high altitudes.\n\nIn the summer of 1913 in North Carolina, she made measurements on the breathing and the blood of a total of 43 adult residents chosen from three different locations in the Southern Appalachian chain.\n\nFitzGerald returned to the UK in 1915 to serve as a clinical pathologist at the Edinburgh infirmary, a position that was empty because of World War I. She did not publish any more papers and remained out of contact with the physiology community even after her return to Oxford in 1930.\n\nIn 1961, on the centenary of Haldane's birth, her work was rediscovered. In 1972, at 100 years old, she received an honorary MA from Oxford University, 75 years after she had attended classes there. She was also made a member of The Physiological Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "163131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163131", "title": "Maslow's hierarchy of needs", "text": "Maslow's hierarchy of needs\n\nMaslow's hierarchy of needs is a theory in psychology proposed by Abraham Maslow in his 1943 paper \"A Theory of Human Motivation\" in \"Psychological Review\". Maslow subsequently extended the idea to include his observations of humans' innate curiosity. His theories parallel many other theories of human developmental psychology, some of which focus on describing the stages of growth in humans. He then decided to create a classification system which reflected the universal needs of society as its base and then proceeding to more acquired emotions. Maslow's hierarchy of needs is used to study how humans partake in behavioral motivation intrinsically. Maslow used the terms \"physiological,\" \"safety,\" \"belonging and love,\" \"esteem,\" and \"self-actualization\" to describe the pattern through which human motivations generally move. This means that in order for motivation to occur at the next level, each level must be satisfied within the individual themselves. Furthermore, this theory is a key foundation in understanding how drive and motivation are correlated when discussing human behavior. Each of these individual levels contains a certain amount of internal sensation that must be met in order for an individual to complete their hierarchy.The goal of Maslow's Theory is to attain the fifth level or stage: self-actualization.\n\nMaslow's theory was fully expressed in his 1954 book \"Motivation and Personality.\" The hierarchy remains a very popular framework in sociology research, management training and secondary and higher psychology instruction. Maslow's classification hierarchy has been revised over time. The original hierarchy states that a lower level must be completely satisfied and fulfilled before moving onto a higher pursuit. However, today scholars prefer to think of these levels as continuously overlapping each other. This means that the lower levels may take precedent back over the other levels at any point in time.\n\nMaslow's hierarchy of needs is often portrayed in the shape of a pyramid with the largest, most fundamental needs at the bottom and the need for self-actualization and transcendence at the top. In other words, The crux of the theory is that individuals’ most basic needs must be met before they become motivated to achieve higher level needs.\n\nThe most fundamental and basic four layers of the pyramid contain what Maslow called \"deficiency needs\" or \"d-needs\": esteem, friendship and love, security, and physical needs. If these \"deficiency needs\" are not met – with the exception of the most fundamental (physiological) need – there may not be a physical indication, but the individual will feel anxious and tense. Maslow's theory suggests that the most basic level of needs must be met before the individual will strongly desire (or focus motivation upon) the secondary or higher level needs. Maslow also coined the term \"metamotivation\" to describe the motivation of people who go beyond the scope of the basic needs and strive for constant betterment.\n\nThe human brain is a complex system and has parallel processes running at the same time, thus many different motivations from various levels of Maslow's hierarchy can occur at the same time. Maslow spoke clearly about these levels and their satisfaction in terms such as \"relative\", \"general\", and \"primarily\". Instead of stating that the individual focuses on a certain need at any given time, Maslow stated that a certain need \"dominates\" the human organism. Thus Maslow acknowledged the likelihood that the different levels of motivation could occur at any time in the human mind, but he focused on identifying the basic types of motivation and the order in which they would tend to be met.\n\nPhysiological need is a concept that was derived to explain and cultivate the foundation for motivation. This concept is the basic foundation of Maslow's hierarchy of needs. This term was coined to represent a similar premise as drive. Physiological needs are considered the main physical requirements for human survival. This means that Physiological needs are universal human needs. Physiological needs are considered the first step in internal motivation according to Maslow's hierarchy of needs. This theory states that humans are compelled to fulfill these physiological needs first in order to pursue intrinsic satisfaction on a higher level. If these needs are not achieved, it leads to an increase in displeasure within an individual. In return, when individuals feel this increase in displeasure, the motivation to decrease these discrepancies increases. Physiological needs can be defined as both traits and a state. Physiological needs as traits allude to long-term, unchanging demands that are required of basic human life. Physiological needs as a state allude to the unpleasant decrease in pleasure and the increase for an incentive to fulfill a necessity. In order to pursue intrinsic motivation higher up Maslow's hierarchy, Physiological needs must be met first. This means that if a human is struggling to meet their physiological needs, then they are unlikely to intrinsically pursue safety, belongingness, esteem, and self-actualization. Physiological needs include:\n\n\nOnce a person's physiological needs are relatively satisfied, their safety needs take precedence and dominate behavior. In the absence of physical safety – due to war, natural disaster, family violence, childhood abuse, etc. – people may (re-)experience post-traumatic stress disorder or transgenerational trauma. In the absence of economic safety – due to an economic crisis and lack of work opportunities – these safety needs manifest themselves in ways such as a preference for job security, grievance procedures for protecting the individual from unilateral authority, savings accounts, insurance policies, disability accommodations, etc. This level is more likely to predominate in children as they generally have a greater need to feel safe. Safety and security needs are about keeping us safe from harm. These include shelter, job security, health, and safe environments. If a person does not feel safe in an environment, they will seek to find safety before they attempt to meet any higher level of survival, but the need for safety is not as important as basic physiological needs.\n\nSafety and Security needs include:\n\n\nAfter physiological and safety needs are fulfilled, the third level of human needs are seen to be interpersonal and involves feelings of belongingness. This need is especially strong in childhood and it can override the need for safety as witnessed in children who cling to abusive parents. Deficiencies within this level of Maslow's hierarchy – due to hospitalism, neglect, shunning, ostracism, etc. – can adversely affect the individual's ability to form and maintain emotionally significant relationships in general.\n\nSocial Belonging needs include:\n\n\nAccording to Maslow, humans need to feel a sense of belonging and acceptance among social groups, regardless whether these groups are large or small. For example, some large social groups may include clubs, co-workers, religious groups, professional organizations, sports teams, gangs, and online communities. Some examples of small social connections include family members, intimate partners, mentors, colleagues, and confidants. Humans need to love and be loved – both sexually and non-sexually – by others. Many people become susceptible to loneliness, social anxiety, and clinical depression in the absence of this love or belonging element. This need for belonging may overcome the physiological and security needs, depending on the strength of the peer pressure.\n\nEsteem needs are ego needs or status needs. People develop a concern with getting recognition, status, importance, and respect from others. Most humans have a need to feel respected; this includes the need to have self-esteem and self-respect. Esteem presents the typical human desire to be accepted and valued by others. People often engage in a profession or hobby to gain recognition. These activities give the person a sense of contribution or value. Low self-esteem or an inferiority complex may result from imbalances during this level in the hierarchy. People with low self-esteem often need respect from others; they may feel the need to seek fame or glory. However, fame or glory will not help the person to build their self-esteem until they accept who they are internally. Psychological imbalances such as depression can distract the person from obtaining a higher level of self-esteem.\n\nMost people have a need for stable self-respect and self-esteem. Maslow noted two versions of esteem needs: a \"lower\" version and a \"higher\" version. The \"lower\" version of esteem is the need for respect from others. This may include a need for status, recognition, fame, prestige, and attention. The \"higher\" version manifests itself as the need for self-respect. For example, the person may have a need for strength, competence, mastery, self-confidence, independence, and freedom. This \"higher\" version takes guidelines, the \"hierarchies are interrelated rather than sharply separated\". This means that esteem and the subsequent levels are not strictly separated; instead, the levels are closely related.\n\n\"What a man can be, he must be.\" This quotation forms the basis of the perceived need for self-actualization. This level of need refers to what a person's full potential is and the realization of that potential. Maslow describes this level as the desire to accomplish everything that one can, to become the most that one can be. Individuals may perceive or focus on this need very specifically. For example, one individual may have a strong desire to become an ideal parent. In another, the desire may be expressed athletically. For others, it may be expressed in paintings, pictures, or inventions. As previously mentioned, Maslow believed that to understand this level of need, the person must not only achieve the previous needs but master them. Self-actualization can often be described as a value-based system when discussing its role in motivation. Since all levels of Maslow's hierarchy must have been met in order to acquire this level, seeking to fulfill this form of satisfaction can be defined as an explicit motive. An explicit motive can be defined as a reward-based system that is used to intrinsically pursue certain values or goals. Individuals who are motivated to pursue this level are seeking and understanding how their sense of self-partakes within their human behavior. Self-actualization can include:\n\n\nIn his later years, Abraham Maslow explored a further dimension of motivation, while criticizing his original vision of self-actualization. By this later theory, one finds the fullest realization in giving oneself to something beyond oneself — for example, in altruism or spirituality. He equated this with the desire to reach the infinite. \n\"Transcendence refers to the very highest and most inclusive or holistic levels of human consciousness, behaving and relating, as ends rather than means, to oneself, to significant others, to human beings in general, to other species, to nature, and to the cosmos\" (\"Farther Reaches of Human Nature\", New York 1971, p. 269).\n\nRecent research appears to validate the existence of universal human needs, although the hierarchy proposed by Maslow is called into question.\n\nFollowing World War II, the unmet needs of homeless and orphaned children presented difficulties that were often addressed with the help of attachment theory, which was initially based on Maslow and others' developmental psychology work by John Bowlby. Originally dealing primarily with maternal deprivation and concordant losses of essential and primal needs, attachment theory has since been extended to provide explanations of nearly all the human needs in Maslow's hierarchy, from sustenance and mating to group membership and justice.\n\nUnlike most scientific theories, Maslow's hierarchy of needs has widespread influence outside academia. As Uriel Abulof argues, \"The continued resonance of Maslow's theory in popular imagination, however unscientific it may seem, is possibly the single most telling evidence of its significance: it explains human nature as something that most humans immediately recognize in themselves and others.\" Still, academically, Maslow's theory is heavily contested.\n\nMaslow studied what he called the master race of people such as Albert Einstein, Jane Addams, Eleanor Roosevelt, and Frederick Douglass rather than mentally ill or neurotic people, writing that \"the study of crippled, stunted, immature, and unhealthy specimens can yield only a cripple psychology and a cripple philosophy.\"\nMaslow studied the healthiest 1% of the college student population.\n\nIn their extensive review of research based on Maslow's theory, Wahba and Bridwell found little evidence for the ranking of needs that Maslow described or for the existence of a definite hierarchy at all.\n\nThe order in which the hierarchy is arranged has been criticized as being ethnocentric by Geert Hofstede. Maslow's hierarchy of needs fails to illustrate and expand upon the difference between the social and intellectual needs of those raised in individualistic societies and those raised in collectivist societies. The needs and drives of those in individualistic societies tend to be more self-centered than those in collectivist societies, focusing on improvement of the self, with self-actualization being the apex of self-improvement. In collectivist societies, the needs of acceptance and community will outweigh the needs for freedom and individuality.\n\nThe position and value of sex on the pyramid has also been a source of criticism regarding Maslow's hierarchy. Maslow's hierarchy places sex in the physiological needs category along with food and breathing; it lists sex solely from an individualistic perspective. For example, sex is placed with other physiological needs which must be satisfied before a person considers \"higher\" levels of motivation. Some critics feel this placement of sex neglects the emotional, familial, and evolutionary implications of sex within the community, although others point out that this is true of all of the basic needs.\n\nThe higher-order (self-esteem and self-actualization) and lower-order (physiological, safety, and love) needs classification of Maslow's hierarchy of needs is not universal and may vary across cultures due to individual differences and availability of resources in the region or geopolitical entity/country.\n\nIn one study, exploratory factor analysis (EFA) of a thirteen item scale showed there were two particularly important levels of needs in the US during the peacetime of 1993 to 1994: survival (physiological and safety) and psychological (love, self-esteem, and self-actualization). In 1991, a retrospective peacetime measure was established and collected during the Persian Gulf War and US citizens were asked to recall the importance of needs from the previous year. Once again, only two levels of needs were identified; therefore, people have the ability and competence to recall and estimate the importance of needs. For citizens in the Middle East (Egypt and Saudi Arabia), three levels of needs regarding importance and satisfaction surfaced during the 1990 retrospective peacetime. These three levels were completely different from those of the US citizens.\n\nChanges regarding the importance and satisfaction of needs from the retrospective peacetime to the wartime due to stress varied significantly across cultures (the US vs. the Middle East). For the US citizens, there was only one level of needs since all needs were considered equally important. With regards to satisfaction of needs during the war, in the US there were three levels: physiological needs, safety needs, and psychological needs (social, self-esteem, and self-actualization). During the war, the satisfaction of physiological needs and safety needs were separated into two independent needs while during peacetime, they were combined as one. For the people of the Middle East, the satisfaction of needs changed from three levels to two during wartime.\n\nA 1981 study looked at how Maslow's hierarchy might vary across age groups. A survey asked participants of varying ages to rate a set number of statements from most important to least important. The researchers found that children had higher physical need scores than the other groups, the love need emerged from childhood to young adulthood, the esteem need was highest among the adolescent group, young adults had the highest self-actualization level, and old age had the highest level of security, it was needed across all levels comparably. The authors argued that this suggested Maslow's hierarchy may be limited as a theory for developmental sequence since the sequence of the love need and the self-esteem need should be reversed according to age.\n\nThe term \"self-actualization\" may not universally convey Maslow's observations; this motivation refers to focusing on becoming the best person that one can possibly strive for in the service of both the self and others. Maslow's term of self-actualization might not properly portray the full extent of this level; quite often, when a person is at the level of self-actualization, much of what they accomplish in general may benefit others, or \"the greater good\".\n\nAbulof argues that while Maslow stresses that \"motivation theory must be anthropocentric rather than animalcentric,\" his theory erects a largely animalistic pyramid, crowned with a human edge: \"Man's higher nature rests upon man's lower nature, needing it as a foundation and collapsing without this foundation… Our godlike qualities rest upon and need our animal qualities.\" Abulof notes that \"all animals seek survival and safety, and many animals, especially mammals, also invest efforts to belong and gain esteem... The first four of Maslow's classical five rungs feature nothing exceptionally human.\" Even when it comes to \"self-actualization,\" Abulof argues, it is unclear how distinctively human is the actualizing \"self.\" After all, the latter, according to Maslow, constitutes \"an inner, more biological, more instinctoid core of human nature,\" thus \"the search for one's own intrinsic, authentic values\" checks the human freedom of choice: \"A musician must make music,\" so freedom is limited to merely the choice of instrument.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2996528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2996528", "title": "Metered-dose inhaler", "text": "Metered-dose inhaler\n\nA metered-dose inhaler (MDI) is a device that delivers a specific amount of medication to the lungs, in the form of a short burst of aerosolized medicine that is usually self-administered by the patient via inhalation. It is the most commonly used delivery system for treating asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and other respiratory diseases. The medication in a metered dose inhaler is most commonly a bronchodilator, corticosteroid or a combination of both for the treatment of asthma and COPD. Other medications less commonly used but also administered by MDI are mast cell stabilizers, such as cromoglicate or nedocromil.\n\nA metered-dose inhaler consists of three major components; the canister which is produced in aluminium or stainless steel by means of deep drawing, where the formulation resides; the metering valve, which allows a metered quantity of the formulation to be dispensed with each actuation; and an actuator (or mouthpiece) which allows the patient to operate the device and directs the aerosol into the patient's lungs. The formulation itself is made up of the drug, a liquefied gas propellant and, in many cases, stabilising excipients. The actuator contains the mating discharge nozzle and generally includes a dust cap to prevent contamination.\n\nTo use the inhaler the patient presses down on the top of the canister, with their thumb supporting the lower portion of the actuator. Actuation of the device releases a single metered dose of the formulation which contains the medication either dissolved or suspended in the propellant. Breakup of the volatile propellant into droplets, followed by rapid evaporation of these droplets, results in the generation of an aerosol consisting of micrometer-sized medication particles that are then inhaled.\n\nMetered-dose inhalers are only one type of inhaler, but they are the most commonly used type. The replacement of chlorofluorocarbons propellants with hydrofluoroalkanes (HFA) resulted in the redesign of metered-dose inhalers in the 1990s. For one variety of beclomethasone inhaler, this redesign resulted in considerably smaller aerosol particles being produced, and led to an increase of potency by a factor of 2.6. \n\n\nBefore the invention of the MDI, asthma medication was delivered using a squeeze bulb nebulizer which was fragile and unreliable. The relatively crude nature of these devices also meant that the particles that they generated were relatively large, too large for effective drug delivery to the lungs. Nonetheless these nebulizers paved the way for inhalation drug delivery providing the inspiration for the MDI.\n\nMDIs were first developed in 1955 by Riker Laboratories, now a subsidiary of 3M Healthcare. At that time MDIs represented a convergence of two relatively new technologies, the CFC propellant and the Meshburg metering valve which was originally designed for dispensing perfume. The initial design by Riker used a glass canister coated with a vinyl plastic to improve its resilience. By 1956 Riker had developed two MDI based products, the Medihaler-Ept containing epinephrine and the Medihaler-Iso containing Isoprenaline. Both products are agonists which provide short term relief from asthma symptoms and have now largely been replaced in asthma treatment by salbutamol, which is more selective.\n\nMetered-dose inhalers are sometimes used with add-on devices referred to as holding chambers or spacers, which are tubes attached to the inhaler that act as a reservoir or holding chamber and reduce the speed at which the aerosol enters the mouth. They serve to hold the medication that is sprayed by the inhaler. This makes it easier to use the inhaler and helps ensure that more of the medication gets into the lungs instead of just into the mouth or the air. With proper use, a spacer can make an inhaler somewhat more effective in delivering medicine.\n\nSpacers can be especially helpful to adults and children who find a regular metered dose inhaler hard to use. People who use corticosteroid inhalers should use a spacer to prevent getting the medicine in their mouth, where oral yeast infections and dysphonia can occur.\n\nThe deposition of the content of drug formulation on the canister surface can result in a shorter shelf life of an MDI inhaler. Applying a suitable surface coating to the components helps to extend this shelf life. Over the years a range of coating processes have been developed that can be applied to both the canister and valve to protect the contents from deposition and degradation.\nGas plasma processing is an industrial technique that is carried out in a vacuum to coat the entire MDI inhaler and involves constant or pulsed excitation of gas by either Radio Frequency (RF) or microwave field to produce an energetic plasma. This coating ensures that the drug formulation does not stick to the interior wall of the MD inhaler and results in the patient receiving the prescribed dose of medication, whilst also extending the product's shelf-life.\n\nA metered dose inhaler contains enough medication for a certain number of actuations (or \"puffs\") which is printed on the canister. Even though the inhaler may continue to work beyond that number of uses, the amount of medication delivered may not be correct. It is important to keep track of the number of times an inhaler was used, so that it can be replaced after its recommended number of uses. For this reason, several regulatory authorities have requested that manufacturers add a dose counter or dose indicator to the actuator. Several inhalation products are now sold with a dose counter-actuator. Depending on the manufacturer and the product, inhalers are sold as a complete unit or the individual canister as a refill prescription.\n\nOne of the most crucial components of a MDI is its propellant. The propellant provides the force to generate the aerosol cloud and is also the medium in which the active component must be suspended or dissolved. Propellants in MDIs typically make up more than 99% of the delivered dose, so it is the properties of the propellant that dominate more than any other individual factor. This is often overlooked in literature and in industry because so few propellants are used and their contribution is often taken for granted. Suitable propellants must pass a stringent set of criteria, they must:\n\nIn the early days of MDIs the most commonly used propellants were the chlorofluorocarbons CFC-11, CFC-12 and CFC-114.\n\nIn 2008 the Food and Drug Administration announced that inhalers using chlorofluorocarbons as a propellant, such as Primatene Mist, could no longer be manufactured or sold as of 2012. This followed from the U.S. decision to agree to the 1987 Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.\n\nPhospholipids are important natural surfactant lipids used in enhancing penetration and bioavailability. Phospholipids act by reducing the high surface tension forces at the air-water interface within the alveoli, thereby reducing the pressure needed to expand the lungs, Thus, commercially available formulations of phospholipids have been designed to spread rapidly over an air-aqueous interface, thereby reducing what is otherwise a very high surface tension of water.\n\nFor ease of identification, many MDI's are colour-coded\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2950868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2950868", "title": "Mission Vuelvan Caras", "text": "Mission Vuelvan Caras\n\nVuelvan Caras (Spanish for \"About Face\", in the sense of turning to face in another direction), is one of the Bolivarian Missions, a series of anti-poverty and social welfare programs implemented by Hugo Chávez, current President of Venezuela. It has as its objective the transformation of the present Venezuelan economy to one that is oriented towards social, rather than fiscal and remunerative, goals. It seeks to facilitate increased involvement of ordinary citizens in programs of endogenous and sustainable social development, emphasizing in particular the involvement of traditionally marginalized or excluded Venezuelan social and economic sectors, including those participating in Venezuela's significant \"informal\" economy. The mission's ultimate goal, according to Hugo Chávez, is to foster an economy that brings \"a quality and dignified life for all.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "38254950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38254950", "title": "MyFitnessPal", "text": "MyFitnessPal\n\nMyFitnessPal is a smartphone app and website that tracks diet and exercise to determine optimal caloric intake and nutrients for the users' goals and uses gamification elements to motivate users. Users can either scan the barcodes of various food items or manually add them in the database of over five million different foods. Working in conjunction with over 50 devices and apps including Fitbit and Garmin wearable devices users can synchronize their health data to third-party devices for easier mobility. In a \"Consumer Reports\" diet rating, the free version of MyFitnessPal was rated the best free program (with 83 points) in overall satisfaction, \"maintenance, calorie awareness, and food variety\".\n\nIn February 2015, Under Armour acquired MyFitnessPal.\n\nIn 2005, MyFitnessPal was founded by Albert Lee and Mike Lee.\n\nOn February 4, 2015, MyFitnessPal was acquired by athletic apparel maker, Under Armour, in a deal worth $475 million. MyFitnessPal had 80 million users at the time.\n\nOn May 4, 2015, MyFitnessPal introduced a premium subscription tier for its applications. According to Mike Lee, the premium service allows subscribers \"to make custom reports, to dig deeper into the nutrient density of the food, and to customize the measurements used to plan their meals.\"\n\nOn March 29, 2018, Under Armour disclosed a data breach of 150 million accounts at its subsidiary, MyFitnessPal. The compromised data consisted of usernames, the users' e-mail addresses and hashed passwords, but not credit card numbers and government identifiers (social security numbers, national identification numbers). Under Armour were notified of the breach on the week of 19–25 March, and that the leak happened sometime in February. The affected users are in the process of being notified via e-mail and in-app notifications. An official Under Armour statement stressed, that MyFitnessPal users should immediately change their passwords.\n\n"}
{"id": "1406137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1406137", "title": "Operation Coffee Cup", "text": "Operation Coffee Cup\n\nOperation Coffee Cup was a campaign conducted by the American Medical Association (AMA) during the late 1950s and early 1960s in opposition to the Democrats' plans to extend Social Security to include health insurance for the elderly, later known as Medicare. As part of the plan, doctors' wives would organize coffee meetings in an attempt to convince acquaintances to write letters to Congress opposing the program. The operation received support from Ronald Reagan, who in 1961 produced the LP record \"Ronald Reagan Speaks Out Against Socialized Medicine\" for the AMA, outlining arguments against what he called socialized medicine. This record would be played at the coffee meetings.\n\nThe AMA had long opposed any government-run or subsidized provision of health care. Dr. Morris Fishbein, the AMA’s president, described the organization’s attitude as early as 1939:\n\n...all forms of security, compulsory security, even against old age and unemployment, represent a beginning invasion by the state into the personal life of the individual, represent a taking away of individual responsibility, a weakening of national caliber, a definite step toward either communism or totalitarianism.\n\nAs John F. Kennedy took the presidency, one of his priorities was reform of the American health care system. To that end he sent a health care bill to Congress, HR 4222, known as the King-Anderson legislation after its sponsors (Senator Anderson and Rep. Cecil King, of California). The bill provisioned a significant expansion of the government’s role in caring for the elderly, including features of what would eventually become Medicare.\n\nFormer Alaskan Governor Sarah Palin quoted Ronald Reagan during the 2008 Vice-Presidential debate, \"It was Ronald Reagan who said that freedom is always just one generation away from extinction. We don’t pass it to our children in the bloodstream; we have to fight for it and protect it, and then hand it to them so that they shall do the same, or we’re going to find ourselves spending our sunset years telling our children and our children’s children about a time in America, back in the day, when men and women were free.\" Paul Krugman of the \"New York Times\" incorrectly attributed this to the 1961 album, but Reagan did not actually use the phrase \"freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction\" in this speech. That came in his address to the annual meeting of the Phoenix Chamber of Commerce, on 30 March 1961.\n\n"}
{"id": "3814003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3814003", "title": "Phlegmon", "text": "Phlegmon\n\nA phlegmon is a localized area of acute inflammation of the soft tissues. It is a descriptive term which may be used for inflammation related to a bacterial infection or non-infectious causes (e.g. pancreatitis). Most commonly, it is used in contradistinction to a \"walled-off\" pus-filled collection (abscess), although a phlegmon may progress to an abscess if untreated. A phlegmon can localize anywhere in the body. The Latin term \"phlegmōn\" is from the ancient Greek \"φλέγω\" (phlégō, “burn”).\n\nAs with any form of inflammation, phlegmon presents with inflammatory signs dolor (localized pain), calor (increase local tissue temperature), rubor (skin redness/hyperemia), tumor (either clear or non-clear bordered tissue swelling), functio laesa (diminish affected function). There may be systemic signs of infection, such as fever, general fatigue, chills, sweating, headache, loss of appetite.\n\nCommonly caused by bacterial infection, as in the case of cellulitis or diverticulitis. Non-infectious causes of phlegmon include acute pancreatitis, where inflammation is caused by leaking of pancreatic digestive enzymes into the surrounding tissues.\n\nFactors affecting the development of phlegmon are virulence of bacteria and immunity strength.\n\nIn modern medicine, \"phlegmon\" is mostly used descriptively in the fields of surgery/surgical pathology and medical imaging. The ultrasound and CT imaging findings of phlegmon are those of focal tissue edema, with no loculated fluid collection to suggest the formation of an abscess.\n\nSince phlegmon describes an area of inflammation, and not a specific disease process, the treatment depends on the cause and severity of the inflammation. Bacterial infections such as cellulitis may be treated by antibiotic therapy, depending on the severity.\n\n"}
{"id": "9751520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9751520", "title": "Plastro Irrigation Systems", "text": "Plastro Irrigation Systems\n\nPlastro Irrigation Systems Ltd. is an Israeli manufacturer of irrigation products and a subsidiary of Deere & Company. The company was established in 1966, and today operates through 13 subsidiaries worldwide, with 100 representatives around the world. The company focuses on irrigation solutions within the dynamic irrigation market, on efficient use of water resources and fertilizers to increase yields. Prior to its acquisition by Deere & Company, the company was publicly traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange where share holders (some through holding entities) included Kibbutz Gvat, John Gandel of Australia and the public.\n\nSince 2003, Plastro has opened five new commercial and manufacturing subsidiaries in Australia, Brazil, Ethiopia, France and Turkey.\n"}
{"id": "30132817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30132817", "title": "Playboy lifestyle", "text": "Playboy lifestyle\n\nA playboy lifestyle is the lifestyle of a wealthy man with ample time for leisure, who demonstratively is a \"bon vivant\" that appreciates the pleasures of the world, especially women. The term \"playboy\" was popular in the early to mid-20th century and is sometimes used to describe a conspicuous womanizer. \n\nInitially the term was used in the eighteenth century for boys who performed in the theatre, and later it appears in the 1888 Oxford Dictionary to characterize a person with money who is out to enjoy himself. By the end of the nineteenth century it also implied the connotations of \"gambler\" and \"musician\". By 1907, in J. M. Synge's comedy \"The Playboy of the Western World\", the term had acquired the notion of a womanizer. According to Shawn Levy, the term reached its full meaning in the interwar years and early post WWII years. Postwar intercontinental travel allowed playboys to meet at international nightclubs and famous \"playgrounds\" such as the Riviera or Palm Beach where they were trailed by paparazzi who supplied the tabloids with material to be fed to an eager audience. Their sexual conquests were rich, beautiful, and famous. In 1953, Hugh Hefner caught the wave and created the \"Playboy\" magazine.\n\nPorfirio Rubirosa, who died in a car crash in 1965, is an example of someone who embodied the playboy lifestyle. The diplomat claimed to have no time to work, being busy spending time with women, getting married briefly and in sequence to the two richest women in the world, drinking and gambling with his friends, playing polo, racing cars, and flying his airplane from party to party. He was linked to other famous playboys of his days Aly Khan, \"Baby\" Francisco Pignatari, and later, Gunther Sachs, his acolyte, who termed himself a \"homo ludens\".\n\nOther people who adopted the playboy lifestyle included Hugh Hefner, Dan Bilzerian, Julio Iglesias, George Best, Imran Khan, James Hunt, Howard Hughes, Averell Harriman, Errol Flynn, Gianni Agnelli, Silvio Berlusconi, John F. Kennedy, Alessandro \"Dado\" Ruspoli, Carlos de Beistegui, Count Theodore Zichy, David Frost, and Bernard Cornfeld.\n\nFictional playboys include Bruce Wayne from the DC Comics \"Batman\" franchise, Tony Stark from Marvel Entertainment, Jack Donaghy from \"30 Rock\", and Charlie Harper from \"Two and a Half Men\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25070451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25070451", "title": "Psychiatric disorders of childbirth", "text": "Psychiatric disorders of childbirth\n\nPsychiatric disorders of childbirth are mental disorders developed by the mother related to the delivery process itself. They overlap with the organic prepartum and postpartum psychoses and other psychiatric conditions associated with having children. Symptoms include rage, or in rare cases, neonaticide.\n\nThere are many distinct forms of psychosis which start during pregnancy (prepartum) or after delivery (postpartum). In Europe and North America, only one – polymorphic psychosis (postpartum psychosis)– is commonly seen. Postpartum bipolar disorder, referred to in the DSM-5 as bipolar, peripartum onset, is a separate condition with no psychotic features. Historically, about one quarter of psychoses after childbirth were 'organic' and would now be classified as a form of delirium. This means that a severe mental disturbance, usually in the form of delirium, develops as a complication of a somatic illness. \n\nPostpartum PTSD was first described in 1978. Since then over 60 papers have been published. After excessively painful labours, or those with a disturbing loss of control, fear of stillbirth or complications requiring emergency Caesarean section, some mothers suffer nightmares, and intrusive images and memories ('flashbacks'), similar to those occurring after other harrowing experiences. They can last for months. Some avoid further pregnancy (secondary tocophobia), and those who become pregnant again may experience a return of symptoms, especially in the last trimester. Rates up to 5.9% of deliveries have been reported. There is some evidence that early counseling reduces these symptoms. Enduring symptoms require specific psychological treatment.\n\nThe word comes from the Greek \"tokos\", meaning parturition. Early authors like Ideler wrote about this fear, and, in 1937, Binder drew attention to a group of women who sought sterilization because of tocophobia. In the last 40 years there have been a series of papers published mainly from Scandinavia. Tocophobia can be primary (before the first child is born) or secondary (typically after extremely traumatic deliveries). Elective Caesarean section is one solution, but psychotherapy can also help these women to give birth vaginally.\n\nPostpartum infective delirium was described by Hippocrates: 8/17 female cases in the 1st and 3rd books of epidemics suffered from postpartum or post-abortion sepsis, all complicated by delirium. In Europe and North America the foundation of the metropolitan maternity hospitals, together with instrumental deliveries and the practice of attending necropsies, led to epidemics of streptococcal puerperal fever, resulting in maternal mortality rates up to 10%. The peak was about 1870, after which antisepsis and asepsis gradually brought them under control. These severe infections were often complicated by delirium, but it was not until the nosological advances of Chaslin and Bonhöffer that they could be distinguished from other causes of postpartum psychosis. Infective delirium hardly ever starts during pregnancy, and usually begins in the first postpartum week. The onset of sepsis and delirium are closely related, and the course parallels the infection, although about 20% of patients recover from the infection, but develop chronic confusional states. Recurrences after another pregnancy are rare.\n\nAlcohol withdrawal states (delirium tremens) are recognized in addicts whose intake has been interrupted by trauma or surgery. This can occur after childbirth.\n\nA severe mental disorder was described by Wernicke and Korsakoff. Its most striking feature is loss of memory, which can be permanent. The cause is vitamin B (thiamine) deficiency, usually found in severe alcoholics. It can also result from pernicious vomiting of pregnancy (hyperemesis gravidarum). Over 125 cases have been reported in the world literature and, although thiamine treatment has been available since 1936, these cases still occur in countries with advanced medical services, due to rehydration without vitamin supplements. A few patients have developed symptoms after the death of the foetus, miscarriage, termination of pregnancy or delivery.\n\nHyponatraemia (which leads to delirium) can complicate oxytocin treatment, usually when given to induce an abortion.\n\nInborn errors of the Krebs-Henseleit urea cycle lead to hyperammonaemia. In carriers and heterozygotes, encephalopathy can develop in pregnancy or the puerperium. Cases have been described in carbamoyl phosphate synthetase 1, argino-succinate synthetase and ornithine carbamoyltransferase deficiency. This is the form of postpartum psychosis most recently described.\n\nBefore the advent of antibiotics, streptococcal infections occasionally led to a condition called \"Chorea gravidarum\". Chorea gravidarum, a severe variant of Sydenham's chorea, can have a number of psychiatric complications – character change, depression, Tourette's syndrome, hypnogogic hallucinations, defect states and acute psychosis. But it still occurs as a result of systemic lupus or anti-phospholipid syndromes. Nevertheless, chorea psychoses are very rare, with only about 50 prepartum cases reported in the literature. Occasionally, they can break out after delivery, or after a termination of pregnancy.\n\nAll the above causes have a specific connection with childbearing. But diseases that have no such connection can fortuitously lead to postpartum psychosis, for example neurosyphilis, encephalitis, meningitis, thyroid disease or ischaemic heart disease.\n\nPuerperal women are liable to thrombosis, especially thrombophlebitis of the leg and pelvic veins. Aseptic thrombi can also form in the dural venous sinuses and the cerebral veins draining into them. Most patients present with headache, vomiting, seizures and focal signs such as hemiplegia or dysphasia, but a minority of cases have a psychiatric presentation. The incidence is about 10/10,000 births in Europe and North America, but much higher in India, where large series have been collected.\n\nPituitary necrosis following postpartum haemorrhage (Sheehan's syndrome) leads to failure and atrophy of the gonads, adrenal and thyroid. Chronic psychoses can supervene many years later, based on myxoedema, hypoglycaemia or Addisonian crisis. But these patients can also develop acute and recurrent psychoses, even as early as the puerperium.\n\nArterial occlusion may be due to thrombi, amniotic fragments or air embolism. Postpartum cerebral angiopathy is a transitory arterial spasm of medium caliber cerebral arteries; it was first described in cocaine and amphetamine addicts, but can also complicate ergot and bromocriptine prescribed to inhibit lactation. Subarachnoid haemorrhage can occur after miscarriage or childbirth. Epidural anaesthesia can, if the dura is punctured, lead to leakage of cerebrospinal fluid and subdural haematoma. All these can occasionally present with psychiatric symptoms.\n\nWomen with a lifelong epileptic history are also liable to psychoses during labour in the puerperium. Women occasionally develop epilepsy for the first time in relation to their first pregnancy, and psychotic episodes have been described.\n\nWith the great improvement in obstetric care, severe complications of pregnancy and childbirth have become rare. There is, however, a great contrast between Europe, North America, Australia, Japan and some other countries with advanced medical care, and the rest of the world. The wealthiest nations produce only 10 million children each year, from a total of 135 million. They have a maternal mortality rate (MMR) of 6–20/100,000. Some poorer nations with high birth rates have an MMR more than 100 times as high, and, presumably, a corresponding prevalence of severe morbidity. For example, in Sub-Saharan Africa, 21 nations, with a combined birth rate of over 14 millions, have an MMR >1,000/100,000. Only a minority of deliveries in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia are attended by skilled personnel (doctors, nurses or midwives). In Dar es Salaam, the majority of postpartum psychoses are organic. In Africa, India & South East Asia, and Latin America, these organic disorders may still be as important as they have been throughout human history.\n\n"}
{"id": "42600567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42600567", "title": "Psychological Injury and Law", "text": "Psychological Injury and Law\n\nPsychological Injury and Law is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by Springer Science+Business Media on behalf of the Association for Scientific Advancement in Psychological Injury and Law. It was established in 2008 and the editor-in-chief is Gerald Young (York University). The journal covers forensic psychology, especially the interaction of psychology and law in the area of trauma and injury.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Scopus, PsycINFO, and Academic OneFile.\n"}
{"id": "51597941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51597941", "title": "Puppy nutrition", "text": "Puppy nutrition\n\nThe developmental life stage of dogs requires a specific intake of nutrients to ensure proper growth and development and to meet energy requirements. Despite the fact that puppies have different nutritional requirements compared to their adult counterparts, of the 652 breeders surveyed in the United States and Canada in 2012, 8.7% report feeding puppies commercial diets not intended for the developmental life stage of canines. Large and small dog breeds have even more specific nutrient requirements during growth, such as adjusted calcium to phosphorus ratio, and as such should receive a breed specific growth formula. Feeding diets formulated by a nutritionist for specific breed and life stage differences in nutrient requirements ensures a growing puppy will receive the proper nutrition associated with appropriate skeletal, neurological and immune development. This includes nutrients such as protein, fibre, essential fatty acids, calcium and vitamin E. It is therefore important to feed puppies a diet that meets the minimum and/or maximum requirements established by the National Research Council.\n\nThe nutritional requirements determined by the NRC are based on scientific evidence and used as the basis for nutritional adequacy in cats and dogs. However, these values are based on the assumption that the availability and digestibility of the nutrients are not variable, although in reality, this is not the case. The Association of American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO) also has recommended nutrient levels, but their values serve primarily as regulatory guidance. AAFCO bases their recommendations on feeding trials and are not necessarily supported by scientific evidence; however their nutritional adequacy statement on pet food bags is considered an important part of the label because their recommendations account for ingredient variability. Other agencies involved in pet food regulations include the FDA in the United States who directly regulates the sales of pet food, the FEDIAF in Europe and PFIAA in Australia who recommend regulatory requirements for the pet food industry, as well as others. When selecting puppy food, it is important to consult the labels and ensure products meet the standards of regulatory agencies of your respective country.\n\nYoung growing dogs require greater amounts of energy per unit body mass than fully grown adult dogs. From time of weaning until the puppy reaches 40% of the adult body weight, the optimal energy intake per unit body weight is twice that of an adult dog of the same breed. From 40% to 80% of adult body weight, energy requirements decrease to 1.6 times the adult requirement, and from 80% to the end of growth, this decreases further to 1.2 times the adult energy requirement. Because of this, it is important to ensure that puppy diets contain higher amounts of energy than adult dog foods. However, over nutrition associated with feeding \"ad libitum\" results in accelerated skeletal growth and weight gain leading to osteopenia, especially in large breed dogs. Therefore, appropriate energy requirements should be met, but not exceeded in the growing dog.\n\nOwners and puppy raisers should monitor their puppy’s weight gain by referencing a 9-point body condition score scale which is easily accessible on the internet, regularly weighing the puppy, and consulting with their veterinarian. Owners should also be mindful as to the energy level of their puppy; high energy level puppies will require more energy and may need to be fed extra amounts of food, just as lower energy puppies may require less food. The 9 point body condition score has been shown to be an effective method for estimating percent body fat in dogs. Therefore, by adhering to the 9 point body condition scale, and adjusting food intake accordingly, owners will be able to maintain their puppy at an appropriate weight throughout its growth. In addition to visual estimates of body condition, physical palpation of the pet can provide insight on general health and weight. Speaking to a licensed veterinarian can be very beneficial, as they can help develop these dietary and weight monitoring skills.\n\nAn important aspect of the composition of puppy food is the calcium and phosphorus content. Bone mineral is composed mainly of calcium, which functions in skeletal mineralization during growth. Puppies younger than 5 months are not able to adjust the absorption of calcium in response to intake, therefore an oversupply or undersupply can be harmful. When raised on diets deficient in calcium, pathological bone fractures can result. These fractures have been shown to occur in smaller breed puppies when their diet contained less than 0.33% calcium on a dry matter (DM) basis. Larger breeds present with fractures at a calcium level of less than 0.55%, thus requiring these breeds to have greater calcium requirements.\nThe ratio of calcium to phosphorus greatly impacts the retention of phosphorus. A ratio of 1.3:1 will allow for good phosphorus retention, but levels above a ratio of 2:1 will decrease phosphorus retention. Raising puppies on diets containing excess calcium and phosphorus will result in osteochondrosis which disturbs bone remodeling and cartilage and bone maturation. These changes are noticed in larger breed puppies at lower levels of excess than in smaller breeds. Because large breed puppies are more sensitive to deficient and excess calcium and phosphorus levels, it is important to ensure that their diets contain sufficient amounts of both. The minimum requirement laid out by the NRC is 8.0g/kg DM calcium (0.8%), with a 12g/kg DM (1.2%) recommended allowance. However, recommendations laid out by AAFCO consist of slightly higher calcium values; 1.2% to 1.8% on a DM basis, whereas phosphorus levels should be between 1.0% and 1.6%, with a ratio of calcium to phosphorus between 1:1 and 2:1. Many commonly used ingredients, such as corn, which are added in high amounts to commercial dog foods do not contain adequate amounts of calcium, and as such, calcium supplements are often added to the formulation to ensure proper amounts for development. In addition, a descriptive study of over-the-counter maintenance dog foods determined that 4/45 of the foods studied contained calcium concentrations that exceeded the AAFCO recommendation, but were labeled for all life stages. Therefore, it is important to feed a diet specifically recommended for the developmental life stage and consult the calcium and phosphorus levels in puppy foods.\n\nFat is a nutrient that provides more energy per gram than all other nutrients. Fat provides 9.4kcal/g of gross energy (GE) compared to protein and carbohydrate which only provide 5.56 and 4.15 kcal/g respectively. Due to this greater energy concentration and the higher energy demand of puppies, the higher fat content of canine development diets helps reach these increased energy requirements while also providing the essential fatty acids necessary for the growing dog. Omega-3 (n-3) fatty acids are an important component of puppy diets. Multiple studies suggest brain and retinal function are dependent on the level of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids acquired during in utero development and postnatal life. DHA is the main n-3 fatty acid and can be obtained as DHA itself from dietary sources such as fish and fish oils, or as the DHA precursor linolenic acid. With a high DHA intake, plasma lipid DHA content increases, aiding neurological development, as demonstrated by increases in memory and learning ability. Other benefits of n-3 and DHA include promotion of neurogenesis, increased neuron size and phospholipid synthesis, as well as protection against cell death and peroxidative brain damage by damaging free radicals in the rodent model and presumably across the mammalian kingdom. A deficit of dietary n-3 fatty acids leads to a reduction in brain DHA content by 50-80%, leading to cognitive deficits and increased n-6 fatty acid level which increases inflammation. Adequate intake and recommended allowance levels of 85g/kg (DM) of total fat (8.5%), and 0.5g/kg (DM) of omega 3 fatty acids (EPA+DHA) are laid out by the NRC. Both of these values are also laid out as recommendations by AAFCO. However, according to a study on the effects of supplementing DHA in puppy diets, diets containing 1.4% n-3 fatty acids, or 0.19% DHA resulted in optimal neurological function.\n\nAlong with DHA, vitamin E also supports the proper development of eyesight, reduces oxidative damage, and provides additional immune function support. During instances of immune system stimulation, such as vaccinations and infection, immune cells generate more tissue damaging free radicals. These free radicals are reduced by the action of antioxidants such as vitamin E, which promote the formation and maintenance of healthy immune cells. The adequate intake level laid out by the NRC consists of 24 mg/kg (36 IU/kg) of vitamin E, with a recommended allowance of 30 mg/kg (45 IU/kg). However, the regulatory guidance laid out by AAFCO states a vitamin E minimum recommendation of 50 IU/kg DM. Nonetheless, these values have been shown to be insufficient for immune protection; immune function is best optimized at a level of 500 IU/kg. In addition to prevention of free radical damage, this higher level of vitamin E greatly increases the number of memory CD4+ immune cells, aiding in a greater and a longer response to infection. Due to their still-developing immune system, puppies are more susceptible to infection than adult dogs, and proper levels of vitamin E, as indicated above, are needed in their diet.\n\nAlthough young growing dogs have immature gastrointestinal tracts, they do contain microflora which can ferment fibre and generate short chain fatty acids beneficial to gut health. Colonization and establishment of these bacterial populations happens over time, beginning immediately after birth. Even with the ability for fermentation, addition of fibre to the diet should be done carefully, as fibre will dilute other nutrients in the feed. There are different types of fibre, all are made of carbohydrates, and NRC classifies them into fermentable and non-fermentable carbohydrates. Fermentable carbohydrates are generally 3-10 monosaccharide units joined by glycosidic bonds which cannot be degraded by endogenous enzymes and require the fermentation processes of intestinal microflora for proper degradation. Non-fermentable fibres are carbohydrate structures which are not fully fermented even by intestinal microflora. Little research has been done on non-fermentable fibre, however it is known that it causes fecal bulking and reduced intestinal transit time. It has been shown that addition of non-fermentable fibre in concentrations of 22% or greater of the total diet will reduce growth, feed intake and feed efficiency.\n\nFermentable fibre is more beneficial for growing puppies, and it is often considered a prebiotic, meaning it supports the growth of beneficial microflora species in the intestinal tract. Fermentable fibre often contains fructo-oligosaccharides (FOS) and mannanoligosaccharides (MOS), both of which greatly stimulate gut health. FOS are fermented by beneficial bacteria such as bifidobacteria promoting their growth, while most pathogenic bacterial strains such as E. coli, C. perfringens and Salmonella are unable to ferment it. MOS has been shown to stimulate the immune system and increase resistance to pathogenic bacteria. Beet pulp is generally the standard fermentable fibre used in canine diets, however blends of fermentable fibre sources have been shown to be as effective at promoting gut health. Although fermentable fibre is extremely beneficial, it should still be added in moderate amounts as addition of fermentable fibre to a concentration of 14.1% or greater will result in lower digestibility of the feed.\n\nGrowing puppies require higher levels of protein than adult dogs of the same breed to promote proper growth and development. Protein should account for at least 25% of energy; however protein requirements also depend on the digestibility of the protein and age of the puppy. Amino acid and nitrogen requirements decrease between 10–14 weeks, indicating that different protein levels are often beneficial before and after 14 weeks of age. Before 14 weeks of age, a protein level of 250 g/kg of diet (25% of the diet) containing 4.0 kcal ME/g will result in optimal growth. After 14 weeks of age, protein requirements decrease to 200 g/kg of diet (20% of the diet) for optimal growth.\n\nProtein in excess of these levels is metabolized and leads to an increase of the glomerular filtration rate, and increased urea excretion in the urine, with no evidence of damage to the kidneys. However, addition of protein past these requirements is not recommended, although the NRC has not quantified a safe upper limit. Considering that the energy density of protein is similar to that of carbohydrates, an excess of protein in the diet may lead to fat deposition and weight gain. This excess weight can lead to abnormal joint development, potentially giving rise to joint issues in the future. Additionally, excess of some amino acids may also have detrimental impacts; for example, excess lysine will negatively antagonise arginine. The minimal requirement laid out by the NRC is 180g/kg (18%) DM of crude protein, with a recommended allowance of 225g/kg (22.5%) DM. With this in mind, it is also important to consider the quality and digestibility of the protein used.\n\nTo date, there is little information available about minimum requirements of dietary iodine for developing puppies. However, literature suggests that overdosage of iodine in puppies has deleterious effects on the thyroid gland. High dietary iodine may cause both hypothyroidism and changes in bone metabolism, considering that thyroid hormones are key factors in osteogenesis, as they stimulate osteoblasts, and promote collagen synthesis and mineralization of the osteoid. This is particularly important during juvenile development, as these hormones favor the action of growth hormone (GH) and its facilitator, insulin growth factor-1 (IGF-1) at the osteoplastic level. Hypothyroidism acquired at an early age presents a delay in the maturation and development of the ossification sites of newly-developing bone. It is therefore important to closely monitor the amount of iodine in puppy diets in order to prevent overdosage. The NRC states an adequate intake and recommended allowance of 900 μg/kg (DM) which translates into 220μg/1000 kcal. These values have been shown in multiple studies to be the recommended maximum allowance of iodine that would result in no abnormalities.\n\nCanine development diets are designed specifically to meet the energy demands and nutritional requirements for healthy growth. Proper nutrition is imperative to support development of bones, joints, muscles, and the immune system, and includes the addition of nutrients such as protein, essential fatty acids, calcium, fibre, vitamin E, and others. Ensuring optimal energy intake allows the diet to meet the high energy demands of puppies while avoiding over nutrition, over-accelerated growth, and unhealthy weight gain. Dietary fats also help to meet these high energy demands and provide the essential fatty acids necessary for brain, neuron, and retinal development and function. Since growing puppies require greater amounts of protein than their adult counterparts, it is important to include the appropriate amounts to support healthy development. Correct levels of both fermentable and non-fermentable fibre help to support GI and immune health. During growth, young dogs are more susceptible to infection, but the addition of proper levels of vitamin E to the diet reduces free radical oxidative damage and leads to an increase in immunity. Calcium and phosphorus, in the appropriate amounts and ratio, aid in proper bone and cartilage growth and maturation. It is imperative to be aware of the levels of other minerals as well, as the over-dosage of iodine can lead to hypothyroidism, and the delay in maturation and development of bones. It is therefore important to feed a diet that meets the nutrient minimum and/or maximum requirements established by the National Research Council in order to ensure optimal growth and development of young dogs of all breeds.\n"}
{"id": "23068180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23068180", "title": "Rate ratio", "text": "Rate ratio\n\nA rate ratio (sometimes called an incidence density ratio) in epidemiology, is a relative difference measure used to compare the incidence rates of events occurring at any given point in time. A common application for this measure in analytic epidemiologic studies is in the search for a causal association between a certain risk factor and an outcome.\n\nWhere incidence rate is the occurrence of an event over person-time, for example person-years.\n\nNote: the same time intervals must be used for both incidence rates. \n\n"}
{"id": "55515348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55515348", "title": "Robert Kolodner", "text": "Robert Kolodner\n\nRobert Kolodner is an American psychiatrist and medical informatician. In September 2006, he became the second U.S. National Coordinator for Health IT.\n\nKolodner was chief health informatics officer at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and remained on the VA staff while serving as Acting National Coordinator for Health IT.\nHealth and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt officially appointed Kolodner National Coordinator on 18 April 2007. Kolodner served as National Coordinator until David Blumenthal assumed the position on 20 April 2009.\n\nKolodner retired from the federal government on 23 September 2009.\n"}
{"id": "34237752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34237752", "title": "Samuel Ramírez Moreno", "text": "Samuel Ramírez Moreno\n\nSamuel Ramírez Moreno (1898–1951) was a Mexican physician and psychiatrist. He served as a professor and rector at the National Autonomous University of Mexico.\n\nRamírez began his studies at the American School and received his undergraduate degree in 1907 at the National Preparatory School. He joined the National School of Medicine in 1918, earning the title in 1924.\n"}
{"id": "12788324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12788324", "title": "Sanity Fair", "text": "Sanity Fair\n\nSanity Fair is a festival that takes place each year in the city of Stoke-on-Trent, England. The reason for the day is to tackle the issues of mental illness, raise awareness, and celebrate emotional well-being.\n\nSanity Fair began in 2001 as a small event held mainly indoors. Each year around 30 stores are placed around with information available. There is also a band that plays on the live stage that is placed at the bottom of Piccadilly, in which a parade marches through the streets of Hanley.\n\n"}
{"id": "5200746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5200746", "title": "Sedimentation (water treatment)", "text": "Sedimentation (water treatment)\n\nSedimentation is a physical water treatment process using gravity to remove suspended solids from water. Solid particles entrained by the turbulence of moving water may be removed naturally by sedimentation in the still water of lakes and oceans. Settling basins are ponds constructed for the purpose of removing entrained solids by sedimentation. Clarifiers are tanks built with mechanical means for continuous removal of solids being deposited by sedimentation. Clarification does not removed dissolved species.\n\nSuspended solids (or SS), is the mass of dry solids retained by a filter of a given porosity related to the volume of the water sample. This includes particles 10 μm and greater.\n\nColloids are particles of a size between 0.001 µm and 1 µm depending on the method of quantification. Because of Brownian motion and electrostatic forces balancing the gravity, they are not likely to settle naturally.\n\nThe limit sedimentation velocity of a particle is its theoretical descending speed in clear and still water. In settling process theory, a particle will settle only if :-\n\nRemoval of suspended particles by sedimentation depends upon the size and specific gravity of those particles. Suspended solids retained on a filter may remain in suspension if their specific gravity is similar to water while very dense particles passing through the filter may settle. Settleable solids are measured as the visible volume accumulated at the bottom of an Imhoff cone after water has settled for one hour.\n\nGravitational theory is employed, alongside the derivation from Newton's second law and the Navier–Stokes equations.\n\nStokes' law explains the relationship between the settling rate and the particle diameter. Under specific conditions, the particle settling rate is directly proportional to the square of particle diameter and inversely proportional to liquid viscosity.\n\nThe settling velocity, defined as the residence time taken for the particles to settle in the tank, enables the calculation of tank volume. Precise design and operation of a sedimentation tank is of high importance in order to keep the amount of sediment entering the diversion system to a minimum threshold by maintaining the transport system and stream stability to remove the sediment diverted from the system. This is achieved by reducing stream velocity as low as possible for the longest period of time possible. This is feasible by widening the approach channel and lowering its floor to reduce flow velocity thus allowing sediment to settle out of suspension due to gravity. The settling behavior of heavier particulates is also affected by the turbulence.\n\nAlthough sedimentation might occur in tanks of other shapes, removal of accumulated solids is easiest with conveyor belts in rectangular tanks or with scrapers rotating around the central axis of circular tanks. Settling basins and clarifiers should be designed based on the settling velocity of the smallest particle to be theoretically 100% removed. The overflow rate is defined as:\n\nIn many countries this value is named as surface loading in m3/h per m2. Overflow rate is often used for flow over an edge (for example a weir) in the unit m3/h per m.\n\nThe unit of overflow rate is usually meters (or feet) per second, a velocity. Any particle with settling velocity (\"Vs\") greater than the overflow rate will settle out, while other particles will settle in the ratio Vs/Vo.\nThere are recommendations on the overflow rates for each design that ideally take into account the change in particle size as the solids move through the operation:\nHowever, factors such as flow surges, wind shear, scour, and turbulence reduce the effectiveness of settling. To compensate for these less than ideal conditions, it is recommended doubling the area calculated by the previous equation.\nIt is also important to equalize flow distribution at each point across the cross-section of the basin. Poor inlet and outlet designs can produce extremely poor flow characteristics for sedimentation.\n\nSettling basins and clarifiers can be designed as long rectangles (Figure 1.a), that are hydraulically more stable and easier to control for large volumes. Circular clarifiers (Fig. 1.b) work as a common thickener (without the usage of rakes), or as upflow tanks (Fig. 1.c).\n\nSedimentation efficiency does not depend on the tank depth. If the forward velocity is low enough so that the settled material does not re-suspend from the tank floor, the area is still the main parameter when designing a settling basin or clarifier, taking care that the depth is not too low.\n\nSettling basins and clarifiers are designed to retain water so that suspended solids can settle. By sedimentation principles, the suitable treatment technologies should be chosen depending on the specific gravity, size and shear resistance of particles. Depending on the size and density of particles, and physical properties of the solids, there are four types of sedimentation processes:\n\nDifferent factors control the sedimentation rate in each.\n\nUnhindered settling is a process that removes the discrete particles in a very low concentration without interference from nearby particles. In general, if the concentration of the solutions is lower than 500 mg/L total suspended solids, sedimentation will be considered discrete. Concentrations of raceway effluent total suspended solids (TSS) in the west are usually less than 5 mg/L net. TSS concentrations of off-line settling basin effluent are less than 100 mg/L net. The particles keep their size and shape during discrete settling, with an independent velocity. With such low concentrations of suspended particles, the probability of particle collisions is very low and consequently the rate of floculation is small enough to be neglected for most calculations. Thus the surface area of the settling basin becomes the main factor of sedimentation rate. All continuous flow settling basins are divided into four parts: inlet zone, settling zone, sludge zone and outlet zone (Figure 2).\n\nIn the inlet zone, flow is established in a same forward direction. Sedimentation occurs in the settling zone as the water flow towards to outlet zone. The clarified liquid is then flow out from outlet zone.\nSludge zone: settled will be collected here and usually we assume that it is removed from water flow once the particles arrives the sludge zone.\n\nIn an ideal rectangular sedimentation tank, in the settling zone, the critical particle enters at the top of the settling zone, and the settle velocity would be the smallest value to reach the sludge zone, and at the end of outlet zone, the velocity component of this critical particle are Vs, the settling velocity in vertical direction and Vh in horizontal direction.\n\nFrom Figure 1, the time needed for the particle to settle;\n\nSince the surface area of the tank is WL, and Vs = Q/WL, Vh = Q/WH, where Q is the flow rate and W, L, H is the width, length, depth of the tank.\n\nAccording to Eq. 1, this also is a basic factor that can control the sedimentation tank performance which called overflow rate.\n\nEq. 2 also tell us that the depth of sedimentation tank is independent to the sedimentation efficiency, only if the forward velocity is low enough to make sure the settled mass would not suspended again from the tank floor.\n\nIn a horizontal sedimentation tank, some particles may not follow the diagonal line in Fig. 1, while settling faster as they grow. So this says that particles can grow and develop a higher settling velocity if a greater depth with longer retention time. However, the collision chance would be even greater if the same retention time were spread over a longer, shallower tank. In fact, in order to avoid hydraulic short-circuiting, tanks usually are made 3–6 m deep with retention times of a few hours.\n\nAs the concentration of particles in a suspension is increased, a point is reached where particles are so close together that they no longer settle independently of one another and the velocity fields of the fluid displaced by adjacent particles, overlap. There is also a net upward flow of liquid displaced by the settling particles. This results in a reduced particle-settling velocity and the effect is known as hindered settling.\n\nThere is a common case for hindered settling occurs. the whole suspension tends to settle as a ‘blanket’ due to its extremely high particle concentration. This is known as zone settling, because it is easy to make a distinction between several different zones which separated by concentration discontinuities. Fig. 3 represents a typical batch-settling column tests on a suspension exhibiting zone-settling characteristics. There is a clear interface near the top of the column would be formed to separating the settling sludge mass from the clarified supernatant as long as leaving such a suspension to stand in a settling column. As the suspension settles, this interface will move down at the same speed. At the same time, there is an interface near the bottom between that settled suspension and the suspended blanket. After settling of suspension is complete, the bottom interface would move upwards and meet the top interface which moves downwards.\n\nThe settling particles can contact each other and arise when approaching the floor of the sedimentation tanks at very high particle concentration. So that further settling will only occur in adjust matrix as the sedimentation rate decreasing. This is can be illustrated by the lower region of the zone-settling diagram (Figure 3). In Compression zone, the settled solids are compressed by gravity (the weight of solids), as the settled solids are compressed under the weight of overlying solids, and water is squeezed out while the space gets smaller.\n\nSedimentation in potable water treatment generally follows a step of chemical coagulation and flocculation, which allows grouping particles together into flocs of a bigger size. This increases the settling speed of suspended solids and allows settling colloids.\n\nSedimentation has been used to treat wastewater for millennia.\n\nPrimary treatment of sewage is removal of floating and settleable solids through sedimentation. \"Primary clarifiers\" reduce the content of suspended solids as well as the pollutant embedded in the suspended solids. Because of the large amount of reagent necessary to treat domestic wastewater, preliminary chemical coagulation and flocculation are generally not used, remaining suspended solids being reduced by following stages of the system. However, coagulation and flocculation can be used for building a compact treatment plant (also called a \"package treatment plant\"), or for further polishing of the treated water.\n\nSedimentation tanks called \"secondary clarifiers\" remove flocs of biological growth created in some methods of secondary treatment including activated sludge, trickling filters and rotating biological contactors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16971949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16971949", "title": "Standard person", "text": "Standard person\n\nThe standard person or reference person is a theoretical individual that has perfectly \"normal\" characteristics. This model is used for much research into radiation safety. For many years, the standard person was called reference man because the work assumed a healthy, young adult male. In recent years, reference woman and reference child models have been created, along with variations on body size, age, sex, and race.\n\nIn the future, the model may be expanded to include selected plants and animals. Eventually, for medical purposes, the concept may be replaced by effective attention to measuring the exposure of individual patients to radiation.\n\nAccording to the International Commission on Radiological Protection's 1974 definition, “Reference man is defined as being between 20-30 years of age, weighing 70 kg, is 170 cm in height, and lives in a climate with an average temperature of from 10°C to 20°C. He is a Caucasian and is a Western European or North American in habitat and custom.”\n"}
{"id": "47676794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47676794", "title": "Sunao Tsuboi", "text": "Sunao Tsuboi\n\nBorn and raised in Hiroshima, as a child Tsuboi was interested in maths and science and wished to be an inventor. He was the fourth of five brothers. His two eldest brothers went to war in China and didn't return.\n\n In 1945 he was a student of the Hiroshima Vocational School in Senda-machi. On the morning of August 6 he had just eaten breakfast at a dining hall named \"Shima no Kaori\" and was invited to have a second breakfast with some other students. He declined as he was concerned that the young woman behind the counter would think him a glutton. When the bomb exploded soon afterwards he was walking to school and he was badly burned. Everyone in the dining room was killed. ()\n\nThe school was abandoned and catching fire, so he went to an aunt's house nearby. He was in shock and belatedly realized he was badly injured and didn't wish to be a burden to her, so he left. \nHe went to the Miyuki bridge where he heard that there was an aid station. But the only assistance there was cooking oil being used to ease the pain from burns. Policemen were pouring it onto the skin of school children.\n\nHe was later taken to Ujina (Hiroshima port) by a truck and then to Ninoshima by barge. Only young men were being evacuated, as they were considered valuable for the war effort. He asked a woman visiting to inform his family. He stayed on Ninoshima for several days cared for by a classmate who fed him. His classmate was then sent elsewhere.\n\nHis mother and uncle searched among the dead and dying for three days with no success. When her uncle suggested leaving and holding a funeral for him, his mother began running around screaming his name. He heard her and put up his hand and said \"Here I am.\" He was taken to his home in Ando but was not conscious of this. When his aunt first saw him, she said he looked like a ghost. He didn't know the war had ended and didn't believe it had when he was told.\n\nTsuboi was cared for by his family. He developed aplastic anaemia. He received many blood transfusions and was hospitalized eleven times. Three times his condition became so bad that he was told he was about to die. He suffers from several illnesses including two cancer diagnoses. He receives intravenous transfusions for anemia every two weeks.\n\nTsuboi became a teacher as the hours were not so demanding and teachers received a lot of days off. He taught mathematics at a women's college and at other schools including Ondo-Cho Junior High School. Close to August 6 he would tell his story to his students. He was known as \"Mr Pika-Don\", or \"Mr Flash Bang\", referring to the atomic bombing. He became the principal of a Junior High School, and retired in 1986 after serving as the principal of the Kamezaki and Jonan Junior High Schools.\n\nWhen he was 26 years old teaching at a college for women Tsuboi met a student who he later married. Her parents objected as he was an atomic bomb survivor and they thought he would soon die and leave her a widow. They attempted to commit suicide together with sleeping pills, but didn't take a sufficient amount, so they both just went to sleep.\n\nHe was active with the Japan Teachers Union during his career as a teacher despite receiving punishments for this. The union has been well known for its critical stance against the government of Japan and the Liberal Democratic Party on issues like use of the Japanese flag and national anthem and issues involving censorship of textbooks.\n\nAfter retirement he became more involved in anti-nuclear and anti-war activism, participating in sit-ins, demonstrations and rallies. He is the co-chair of Nihon Hidankyo, a Japan-wide organisation of atomic and hydrogen bomb sufferers.\n\nIn 2011 he was awarded the Kiyoshi Tanimoto peace prize.\n\nHe has made many speeches to students on school excursions to Hiroshima, foreign visitors, and many others. He has repeatedly stated that he wants nuclear weapons to be abolished.\n\nHe has criticised Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe for attacking Japan's postwar commitment to pacifism. In 2015 he and other atomic bomb survivors asked Abe to drop the unpopular security bills then being passed by Abe's administration.\n\nIn May 2016 he met US President Barack Obama, who was the first sitting US president to visit Hiroshima.\n\n"}
{"id": "7012433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7012433", "title": "Wilhelm-Tietjen-Stiftung für Fertilisation", "text": "Wilhelm-Tietjen-Stiftung für Fertilisation\n\nThe Wilhelm-Tietjen-Stiftung für Fertilisation Ltd. is a controversial fertility research group. Its critics have described it as a far-right extremist organization with links to Neo-Nazism and Nazi eugenics theories. \n\nIts proposed purchase of a hotel in the German town of Delmenhorst is the subject of great controversy, and campaigns by local people to keep it out of the town have made the national news in Germany and abroad.\n\n"}
