{"id": "18319119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18319119", "title": "2562 (musician)", "text": "2562 (musician)\n\nDave Huismans (born 1979), better known by his stage name 2562, is a musician from The Hague, Netherlands.\n\nHaving previously released records of various musical styles under the monikers A Made Up Sound and Dogdaze, Huismans created 2562, under which his output is generally described as dubstep. He is known for producing dubstep that takes influence from techno as well.\n\nThe debut 2562 album, \"Aerial\" (Tectonic Records, 2008), was released to favourable reviews.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11255972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11255972", "title": "Abadios", "text": "Abadios\n\nAbadios was a martyr of the Christian church. He was born at Bilgai in Egypt. He was a native soldier of the army who professed his faith in Jesus Christ during the reign of Diocletian at Khalakhis. He was martyred by being thrown into a rock. His feast day is on January 20. Information on him can be found in the \"Synaxaire Arabe-Jacobite\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5589312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5589312", "title": "Animal Stories", "text": "Animal Stories\n\nAnimal Stories is a British pre-school animated television series. Cartoon Network Too began airing this program on 5 June 2006. It also aired on Playhouse Disney in the United States from 1999 to 2002. \"Animal Stories\" began airing on Tiny Pop in September 2013. The series gained a 2001 Children's BAFTA for Best Pre-school Animation.\n\nEvery episode centers on a different individual animal, who is unique in personality. The episode rhymes.\n\nMill Creek Entertainment released \"Animal Stories- The Complete Series\" on DVD in Region 1 on 18 May 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "47192806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47192806", "title": "Anthony Afolabi Adegbola", "text": "Anthony Afolabi Adegbola\n\nAnthony Afolabi Adegbola was a Nigerian Professor of Animal science and former President of the Nigerian Academy of Science. \nIn 1993, he was elected President of the Nigerian Academy of Science to succeeded Professor Akpanoluo Ikpong Ikpong Ette.\n"}
{"id": "8298250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8298250", "title": "Atsuko Natsume", "text": "Atsuko Natsume\n\nAtsuko Natsume, known as Nuku Nuku (English: \"snuggly-wuggly\"), is the main protagonist of the \"All Purpose Cultural Cat Girl Nuku Nuku\" OVA, TV series, and DASH OVA. In the DASH series, Atsuko is named Atsuko Higuchi, rather than Atsuko Natsume, but retains the Nuku Nuku nickname. In all three, her Japanese voice actress is Megumi Hayashibara and her English voice actress is Allison Keith.\n\nIn the OVA and TV series, Nuku Nuku is shown as a green-eyed, magenta-haired young girl of around fourteen to sixteen with a large bust, while in DASH, she is depicted as a nineteen-year-old girl, with green hair and golden eyes. In all three incarnations, Nuku Nuku will often have robotic cat ears pop out of her head.\n\nAtsuko Natsume is an alias that Nuku Nuku was given to pass as a real girl; she prefers to be called Nuku Nuku which is considered her true name. In truth, she is a biotech-type android of sorts with the brain (or nervous system as some sources claim) of a cat inserted inside. She was originally a cat until an incident (differs depending on each series) caused her brain to be transferred into the body of a war robot built by Mishima Industries. In the OVA and TV series, Nuku Nuku was created by Kyusaku Natsume, while in DASH, she was created by a friend of his. Regardless of which series, Nuku Nuku lives with Akiko, Kyusaku and their son, Ryuunosuke, who she considers her family.\n\nIn the OVA, Nuku Nuku acts as the protector for Ryunosuke while he's in the middle of a custody battle between Kyusaku and his wife, Akiko, the granddaughter of the weapons-producing Mishima Industries. They parted when they argued about the usage of his NK-1124 android (who would become Nuku Nuku), and Kyusaku took their son with him.\n\nIn the TV series, Nuku Nuku's role as protector changes, since Akiko and Kyusaku live together (albeit dysfunctionally and always arguing). Instead, she's protecting her family and her classmates from the machinations of Mishima Industries (whose president is different in this series).\n\nIn DASH, Nuku Nuku's role as protector degrades, only using her powers to stop berserk machines of Mishima, or occasionally their human agents, as she is programmed to protect all life. Like in the TV series, Akiko and Kyusaku also live together (still slightly dysfunctional) But, like Nuku Nuku, they have more mature natures as Akiko still works for Mishima Industries but in a lesser capacity and wears glasses. In this series, Ryunosuke is now 14 years old and has an immense crush on Nuku Nuku, who in this series is referred to by the name Atsuko Higuchi.\n\nNuku Nuku possesses incredible physical abilities. Since her body was constructed as a military project, she is technically a combat cyborg. Her strength is nothing short of superhuman, easily capable of lifting hundreds of pounds with ease, throwing punches that can disable armored military vehicles, and leaping dozens of feet through the air. Her stamina is equally impressive, enabling her to utilize her amazing strength for long periods of time-one use for which she commonly uses this ability is to ride her bicycle on the highway, easily outrunning most automobiles. Her greatest asset (due to her peaceful nature) is her amazing resiliency, she has survived falls from aircraft and direct hits from heavy artillery. As her brain is that of a cat's, Nuku Nuku's reflexes, dexterity and balance are equally impressive.\n\nThroughout the OVA and TV series, Nuku Nuku has survived being shot with a rocket, thrown through walls, dropped from hundreds of feet, and even an explosion that decimated a good deal of the city. In DASH she has a Transformation sequence which causes her abilities become active and is sometimes called 'Super Dynamite Girl', though this name is never actually used in the series, although Ryuunosuke refers to her as both a 'super sexy mystery woman' and as 'Miss Sexy Dynamite' in DASH when she is in this form and it is not until the very final episode of the series that he learns that Nuku Nuku and 'Super Dynamite Girl' are the same person. Nuku Nuku's tactical form is referred to as 'Maneki City's famous Hyper Woman' during episode nine, which features the battle between Sangoku Bross and Soldat in a battle between giant robots that quickly turns deadly as the latter robot apparently malfunctions and takes the commentator for the battle hostage to win its battle with Bross.\n\nIn DASH, Nuku Nuku's abilities are downgraded for a more cybergirl archetype. Early on her Powers are only active during her transformation into 'Super Dynamite Girl'. Her superhuman endurance is still present, but reduced in its effectiveness, as she has been seen cut and bleeding, indicating that in DASH, she actually has some approximation of organs aside from her brain, as something must send blood through her body. She can create claws of energy from her hands. She also disperses blasts of heat and energy. According to the official insert for the 2003 release of DASH on DVD, these powers are explained as a weapon called 'Blast Breakers'. This is what causes her to be able to shoot what the insert describes as 'high vibration, high heat' bursts of energy and can use these breakers to literally claw right through various materials. These breakers also allow her to lift a heavy tank or punch through a one-meter thick steel plate.\n\nThe insert for DASH also includes a full list of the other powers this version of Nuku Nuku has in addition to the Blast Breakers as well as a list of four forms for Nuku Nuku. Mode One is listed as her normal form, in which she ordinarily appears. Mode Two is her Tactical Form, which is identified as Super Dynamite Girl. Mode Three is referred to as Battle Form and is listed as being 'for more intense battle', but this form, and Mode Four, her so-called 'Final Form'— which is listed only as 'classified' by the insert — are never seen in the course of the series.\n\nBecause of her mechanical structure, Nuku Nuku can be linked with special devices to enhance her power in the OVAs and Nuku Nuku TV. She may also have been capable of doing so in DASH, but was not shown doing so, though she did work side by side with the large robot called Sangoku Bross in episode nine of the series.\n\nIn all three series, Nuku Nuku is displayed as happy, caring, naive, and protective of her loved ones. But, In DASH She has a little more maturity. Nuku is very attached to her \"father\", Kyuusaku, even going so far as to refer to him as \"Papa-san\". She generally prefers not to fight and does not display any aggression to people who have wronged her. For example, in the OVA, Nuku Nuku does not hate Akiko at all, and even calls her \"Mama-san,\". In the same series, another android known as Eimi tried to steal Nuku Nuku's body (and later just focused on destroying her), but Nuku Nuku took her actions as just simple playing. Nuku Nuku is also an amazing homemaker in all three series, shown by how she's always cooking and cleaning for her family and with a smile on her face. Nuku Nuku always feels she has to protect someone when they're in danger, whether they're her friends and her family. She will only fight when this happens. Due to her personality and attractive figure, Nuku Nuku is always the main attraction of many young boys. Once when she worked at a restaurant, she was the sole reason their business tripled from all the young men coming in to see her.\n\nThe strongest and more complex of Nuku Nuku's relations would be with Ryuunoske. In the OVA, Ryuunoske was the one who discovered her as a cat (shortly before she was injured, leading her to becoming an android). She is most protective of him, as a devoted older sister, which usually spurs on her powers. In the OVA, it is likely this is due to the kindness he showed her by taking her in when she was a stray cat. Nuku Nuku always wants to be there for Ryuunoske, once suggesting she'd go to his school instead because she'd thought he'd be lonely without her. Nuku Nuku always tries to make Ryuunoske happy; for example, when she damaged his bike by accident, she went to work to buy him a new one. In DASH, her relationship with Ryuunoske is changed to that of a young man with a crush on the cute girl. Still, they share a deep closeness rivaling their sibling one in the OVA and TV series, and by the end of the series, Nuku Nuku has found herself reciprocating Ryuunosuke's romantic feelings, though this revelation comes just as she essentially commits suicide to stop her homicidal sister Rei Rei, making the moment bittersweet for the both of them.\n\nOne of Nuku Nuku's most played-on quirks is the fact she's still technically a cat in mind. Often, she will get excited when she sees a mouse and will chase after it, though this is only seen in the OVAs, TV series and manga, while in DASH! she does not portray those characteristics, instead she will often paw at her face with a fist as if grooming herself. This is typically seen after mealtimes or just after waking up from the previous night's sleep. Nuku Nuku is also a sucker for catnip in all forms of animation and the manga except for her appearance in DASH, in which she and Kyuusaku make every effort to conceal her nature and origins until the very end of the series.\n\nIf anything, Nuku Nuku's greatest weakness is her naivety. She never assumes danger until it's too late, and then often sees it as play instead. Only when someone she cares about is in danger will she actually take it seriously.\n\nAnother weakness Nuku Nuku possesses, though light, is a drunk-like state when she smells catnip. She'll stagger around and lick anyone who's covered in it.\n\nNuku Nuku is also unable to swim unless she is given a special mechanical upgrade. In the OVA, she sunk like a rock, while in the TV series, she was simply unable to swim, until she sensed Kyusaku and Ryuunoske both in danger. In DASH her powers are mostly inactive until she is activated in TACTICAL FORM or detects life is in danger. In DASH, she also had a form of selective memory loss caused by her creator Professor Higuchi, which blocked off most of her knowledge of herself, her true nature, and how her powers worked. She also could not aid anyone who was artificially created at first, however she overcame this limitation when Sangoku Bross was endangered, and she was able to activate her tactical form by sheer force of will and the desire to protect the larger machine.\n"}
{"id": "37021254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37021254", "title": "Bachelor of Powalgarh", "text": "Bachelor of Powalgarh\n\nThe Bachelor of Powalgarh, also known as the Tiger of Powalgarh, was an unusually large Bengal tiger, and is said to be 3.23 meters long when measured between pegs. From 1920 to 1930, this male tiger was the most sought-after big-game trophy in the United Provinces. When the tiger was shot in the winter of 1930 by Jim Corbett, he detailed the story in his book \"Man-Eaters of Kumaon\", published by Oxford University press in 1944.\n\nInformation about the male Bengal tiger comes from a documentary-style story written by hunter, conservationist, and author Jim Corbett in his book \"Man-Eaters of Kumaon\", published by the Oxford University Press in India in 1944.\n\nIn 1923, Corbett first discovered the tiger in a steep ravine within a secure retreat. Government rules prohibited night-time shooting, which inadvertently helped the highly sought after tiger survive.\n\nCorbett took Commissioner Wyndham (who he said \"knows more about tigers than any other man in India\") and two experienced \"shikaris\", to view the pug marks of the tiger. After the four examined and measured the pugmarks, Wyndham believed the tiger to be ten feet long between pegs. One shikari said he was 10'5\" over curves, while the other said he was 10'6\" or more. All four said they had never seen larger pugmarks.\n\nBefore Corbett, many attempts had been made to bag the animal, with no one having ever shot him. Two famous hunters, Fred Anderson and Huish Edye, came close, though small mistakes were the cause of their failures. Anderson described the tiger as \"big as a Shetland pony,\" while Edye said it was as big as a donkey. A herder and former poacher, who was attacked by the tiger, said to Corbett that the Bachelor was a \"shaitan\", the Hindi word for 'devil', of a tiger, the size of a camel.\n\nSeven years after the commissioner measured the pugmarks, Corbett and his sister measured the tiger's body twice, albeit without independent witnesses present to certify the measurements, which was 10'7\" over curves.\n\nIn the winter of 1930, Corbett made his first hunt for the tiger, bringing his dog Robin with him. He followed the words of an old dak runner who said he saw the largest pugmarks he'd ever seen lead east to a well-wooded valley. The next morning, Robin picked up the scent of a tiger while Jim noticed large, fresh pugmarks. Fifty yards later, Robin located the tiger within a patch of clerodendron forty yards wide. Picking up Robin and entering the plants slowly, Corbett noticed the patch directly ahead swaying. After waiting for the tiger to leave the bush, Corbett went forward with his rifle drawn, but the tiger was nowhere in sight. Robin then signalled that the tiger had gone to the left, into a deep and narrow ravine. Not armed for dealing with a tiger in close quarters, and it being breakfast time, Corbett and Robin returned home.\n\nAfter breakfast, Corbett returned alone, this time armed with a .450 rifle. He heard shouting and found a man up a tree, swinging an axe and yelling. The man told Corbett that he arrived in time to save him and his buffaloes from a tiger, the size of a camel, who had threatened the herder for hours. After retreating safely to his village, the man pleaded with Corbett to put his photography hobby aside for once and kill the tiger, which he said was big enough to eat a buffalo a day, and would wipe out his livestock in twenty-five. Corbett promised to do his best.\n\nReturning to the plains in which he led the herder's buffaloes through, he heard the call of the bachelor searching for a mate. Corbett imitated a tiger call in reply, then laid down on his elbows in the open, waiting for the tiger to come. After Corbett gave another tiger call, the bachelor called back from a hundred yards away. Eighty seconds later, the tiger's head appeared above bushes four feet high, within ten yards to Corbett's right, and looking directly at him. Corbett slowly turned his rifle, and shot the tiger an inch under his right eye. Instead of dropping dead, as Jim expected, the big cat jumped straight into the air, well above the bushes, then out of panic attacked the tree beside him, tearing it to bits while roaring. Knowing that the tiger knew where he was, Corbett feared to reload his rifle, lest the sound attract the bachelor's attention. He lay on the ground motionless for half an hour until the branches of the tree and nearby bushes stopped waving, and the roaring became less frequent. After all the sounds of thrashing had stopped, Corbett waited for thirty more minutes before slowly crawling thirty yards backwards and hiding in a nearby tree for shelter. After several more minutes, when he was sure that the tiger was gone, Corbett left for home.\n\nThe next morning Corbett returned to the location, along with one of his men, an expert tree climber. After reaching the open grounds, the man climbed a tree, noticing many flattened bushes around, but no signs of the tiger itself. Corbett then instructed the man back in the tree to watch over him as he scoured the ground. Near the tree Corbett found blood profusely sprinkled everywhere, and two large pools of blood and a piece of bone two square inches, which was concluded to be the part of the tiger's skull. As a wounded tiger would growl or charge after hearing a gunshot again, Corbett fired a hundred rounds at bushes near a blood-stained tree, but to no avail. Not finding the tiger within the area, Corbett went home.\n\nThe following morning the herder approached Corbett. He learned that the tiger was shot through the head and, upon his buffaloes finding dried spots of blood, concluded that the tiger must be dead. He offered Jim to use his buffaloes to find the tiger's body using their keen sense of smell, which Corbett agreed upon. Reaching the location where he shot the tiger, Corbett found a hollow filled with dead leaves, flattened with patches of blood around it. Corbett concluded the bachelor must have been lying in the same spot yesterday while he was expending a hundred cartridges. Being uncomfortable with the thought of possibly being between a wounded tiger and a herd of buffaloes, Corbett told the herder that the next day he will search for the tiger alone.\n\nAfter four days of roaming the jungle, Corbett found pugmarks of a big male tiger. Following the pugmarks led Corbett to a \"semul\" tree, which was founded by tigers. After zig-zagging through nearby bushes for an hour or more, Corbett found a tiger, head and body hidden behind a tree with only a leg sticking out. Due to there being another tiger in the area, and not wanting to risk having to deal with two wounded tigers, Corbett choose not to shoot the tiger at that moment. The tiger then moved away. Upon inspecting the spot the tiger had been standing, Corbett found drops of blood, realizing that it was the bachelor all along.\n\nWhile attempting to follow the tiger, Corbett heard a sambhar cry, then he heard a dry twig snap in the same spot as the cry, which was in a crowded bush area. Crawling on the ground, Corbett saw something red through the bushes. Crawling two yards to the right Corbett looked up to find the tiger in front of him, staring directly at him. Two bullet shots later the tiger fell to his side without a sound, ending the hunt for the province's most sought after trophy of the decade. He didn't need to examine this tiger's pugmarks to know it was the Bachelor of Powalgarh, for his proportions were magnificent. The bullet wound from four days ago was hidden by a wrinkle of skin on the front of his head, while the back of the head had a large hole, surprisingly clean and healthy.\n\nKnowing people heard his rifle, Corbett hurried home to relieve the anxiety of the villagers and to gather a carrying party. With his sister, Robin, and twenty men, Corbett returned to the spot where the tiger lay. Corbett measured the tiger twice, one on the spot and another at home, seven years after Wyndham and his men measured the tiger. Corbett and his sister found the tiger to be 10' 7\" (322.58 cm), over curves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "317579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317579", "title": "Bridey Murphy", "text": "Bridey Murphy\n\nBridey Murphy is a purported 19th-century Irishwoman whom U.S. housewife Virginia Tighe (April 27, 1923 – July 12, 1995) claimed to be in a past life. The case was investigated by researchers and concluded to be the result of cryptomnesia.\n\nIn 1952, Colorado businessman and amateur hypnotist Morey Bernstein put housewife Virginia Tighe (Ruth Simmons) of Pueblo, Colorado, in a trance that sparked off startling revelations about Tighe's alleged past life as a 19th-century Irishwoman and her rebirth in the United States 59 years later. Bernstein used a technique called hypnotic regression, during which the subject is gradually taken back to childhood. He then attempted to take Virginia one step further, before birth, and was astonished to find he was listening to Bridey Murphy.\n\nTighe's tale began in 1806, when Bridey was eight years old and living in a house in Cork. She was the daughter of Duncan Murphy, a barrister, and his wife Kathleen. At the age of 17, she married barrister Sean Brian McCarthy, who she claimed taught at Queen's University Belfast, to which she moved. Tighe told of a fall that caused Bridey's death and of watching her own funeral, describing her tombstone and the state of being in life after death. It was, she recalled, a feeling of neither pain nor happiness. Somehow, she was reborn in America, although Tighe/Bridey was not clear how this event happened. Virginia Tighe herself was born in the Midwest in 1923, had never been to Ireland, and did not speak with even the slightest hint of an Irish accent.\n\nThe biographical details related by Bridey were not fully checked before the publication of Bernstein's 1956 book \"The Search for Bridey Murphy\". However, once the book had become a bestseller, almost every detail was thoroughly checked by reporters who were sent to Ireland to track down the background of the elusive woman. It was then that the first doubts about her \"reincarnation\" began to appear. Bridey said she was born on December 20, 1798, in Cork and that she had died in 1864. There was no record of either event. Neither was there any record of a wooden house called The Meadows in which she said she lived, just of a place of that name at the brink of Cork. Indeed, most houses in Ireland were made of brick or stone. She pronounced her husband's name as \"See-an,\" but Seán is pronounced \"Shawn\" in Ireland. Moreover Queen's University Belfast did not exist at the time Tighe/Bridey claimed that Brian was working there.\n\nBrian, which is what Bridey preferred to call her husband, was also the middle name of the man to whom Virginia Tighe was married. Some of the details did tally. For instance, her descriptions of the Antrim coastline were very accurate. So, too, was her account of a journey from Belfast to Cork. She claimed she went to a St. Theresa's Church. There was indeed one where she said there was, but it was not built until 1911. The young Bridey shopped for provisions with a grocer named Farr. It was discovered that such a grocer had existed.\n\nThe experts who examined the case of Virginia Tighe came to the conclusion that the best way to arrive at the truth was to check back not to Ireland but to Tighe's own childhood and her relationship with her parents. Morey Bernstein stated that Virginia Tighe (whom he called Ruth Simmons in the book) was brought up by a Norwegian uncle and his German-Scottish-Irish wife. However, it did not state that her actual parents were both part Irish and that she had lived with them until the age of three. It also did not mention that an Irish immigrant named Bridie Murphy Corkell (1892–1957) lived across the street from Tighe's childhood home in Chicago, Illinois. Scientists are satisfied that everything Virginia Tighe said can be explained as a memory of her long-forgotten childhood. They are convinced that cryptomnesia accounted for the information. Because of these discoveries, scientists consider any paranormal interpretation of the case \"thoroughly disproven.\"\n\nVirginia Tighe disliked being in the spotlight and was skeptical about reincarnation, although she said years later: \"Well, the older I get the more I want to believe in it.\" She died in Denver in 1995. Bernstein gave up hypnotism after Bridey Murphy and began working in business. Success followed and he became a prominent local philanthropist. He died in Pueblo, Colorado, in 1999.\n\n\"The Search for Bridey Murphy\" was also made into a 1956 movie of the same name. Produced by Paramount, the film starred Teresa Wright (as Ruth Simmons), Louis Hayward, and Nancy Gates. It was directed by Noel Langley.\n\nDuring the height of the Bridey Murphy craze, two popular songs were \"For The Love of Bridey Murphy\" and \"Do You Believe in Reincarnation\". There was a Bridey Murphy dance, \"come as you were\" parties and a Reincarnation cocktail. The 1956 film \"I've Lived Before\" was inspired by her story. The film \"The Search for Bridey Murphy\" also came out in 1956.\n\nStan Freberg recorded a satire in 1956, with June Foray, titled \"The Quest For Bridey Hammerschlaugen\", wherein Freberg hypnotizes Goldie Smith to regress to different eras with humorous interruption by Foray. At the end, Foray hypnotizes Freberg, who becomes Davy Crockett. When Foray tells him that he won't be able to profit on the recent Davy Crockett products, Freberg says that in his next life, he would become Walt Disney.\n\n\"Bridey Murphy\" was the name of a band consisting of Bill Cowsill, Paul Cowsill, Barry Cowsill, and Waddy Wachtel. In 1974 Capitol released one single, \"The Time Has Come.\"\n\nIn Robert Wise's 1963 film \"The Haunting\", Julie Harris' character is jokingly accused of being a reincarnation of Bridey Murphy by Russ Tamblyn's character.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "285012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=285012", "title": "Camilo Cienfuegos", "text": "Camilo Cienfuegos\n\nCamilo Cienfuegos Gorriarán (; 6 February 1932 – 28 October 1959) was a Cuban revolutionary born in Havana. Along with Fidel Castro, Che Guevara, Juan Almeida Bosque, and Raúl Castro, he was a member of the 1956 \"Granma\" expedition, which launched Fidel Castro's armed insurgency against the government of Cuban dictator Fulgencio Batista. He became one of Castro's top guerilla commanders, known as the \"Hero of Yaguajay\" after winning a key battle of the Cuban Revolution. His signature weapon was the Thompson submachine gun.\n\nHe was appointed head of Cuba's armed forces shortly after the victory of Castro's rebel army in 1959. He was presumed dead when a small plane he was traveling in disappeared during a night flight from Camagüey to Havana later that year. Many have speculated and conspiracies have arisen concerning his mysterious disappearance. Cienfuegos, whose name translates in English to \"a hundred fires,\" is revered in Cuba as a hero of the Revolution, with monuments, memorials, and an annual celebration in his honor.\n\nCamilo Cienfuegos, born on 6 February 1932 in Havana's Lawton district, grew up in a working-class family that had emigrated from Spain prior to the civil war of 1936–39. His father, a tailor who worked a small shop in Havana, had left-wing political principles.\n\nArtistically inclined since early youth, Camilo enrolled in the Escuela Nacional de Bellas Artes \"San Alejandro\" in 1950, but left his studies soon after due to financial problems. During this period he started working as a tailor apprentice in \"El Arte,\" a fashion store in downtown Havana.\n\nAround 1948 he became involved in politics, initially taking part in popular protests against rising bus-fares. In April 1953, Cienfuegos and a friend traveled to the U.S. on 29-day visitors' visas in search of work. They spent several months working low-paying jobs in New York City, Chicago, and San Francisco until immigration officials took them into custody and returned them to Cuba via Mexico. While in New York, Cienfuegos became involved with a Cuban political exile group and wrote a few articles for its newspaper, \"La Voz de Cuba\" (\"The Voice of Cuba\").\n\nIn personality, writes one historian, Cienfuegos \"exemplified the quintessential native, male, urban Cuban with his sense of humor, great interest in dancing and baseball, good looks, love of women, and overall \"joie de vivre\"\". Rufo López-Fresquet, who served as Minister of the Treasury for the first fourteen months of the revolutionary regime, described him as \"a gay, happy-go-lucky, adventuresome sort\".\n\nIn 1954, Cienfuegos became an active member of the underground student movement against autocratic President Fulgencio Batista. On 5 December 1955, the eve of the anniversary of the death of 19th-century Cuban independence hero Antonio Maceo, soldiers opened fire on Cienfuegos and other students who were returning to their Havana university after placing a wreath on Maceo's monument. Cienfuegos later described this as the moment in which he pledged himself to freeing Cuba from the Batista dictatorship. Jobless and harassed by police, he left Cuba in March 1956 and again traveled to the US, where he worked in Miami and San Francisco for a few weeks before heading to Mexico, intent on joining a small Cuban rebel army being organized by Fidel Castro. On arriving in Mexico, Cienfuegos befriended Castro and began training with the rebels. He was one of the 82 revolutionaries who set sail for Cuba aboard the \"Granma\" in November 1956.\nCienfuegos was not as \"politically sophisticated\" as the Castros or Guevara, and has been described as \"ideologically an unknown quantity\". He was not particularly dogmatic. On the question of tactics, he departed from many others in the revolutionary movement in rejecting violence and revenge. In October 1958, when a Cuban Masonic organization expressed concern that someone captured by the rebels might be tortured and killed, he replied:\n\nThe \"Granma\" arrived in Cuba on 2 December. After three days of swamps and mangroves, the rebels were surprised by Batista's forces at Alegría de Pío. The surviving rebels escaped in small dispersed groups and wandered for weeks in the Sierra Maestra mountains. Cienfuegos was one of the twelve who survived to rejoin Castro a month later.\n\nIn 1957, he became one of the leaders of the revolutionary forces, appointed to the rank of \"Comandante\". In 1958, after the collapse of the government's Operation Verano, Cienfuegos was put in command of one of three columns which headed west out of the mountains with the intention of capturing the provincial capital city of Santa Clara. Che Guevara was in command of another column and Jaime Vega was in command of the third. Vega's column was ambushed and defeated by Batista's forces.\n\nCienfuegos' and Guevara's columns reached the central provinces, where they combined their efforts with other groups. Cienfuegos' column attacked an army outpost at Yaguajay and, after a tough fight, forced the garrison to surrender on 30 December 1958. This earned him the nickname \"The Hero of Yaguajay.\" Cienfuegos then advanced against Santa Clara in conjunction with Guevara's forces, and the other non-Castro forces from the Escambray front. Together, the two columns captured Santa Clara on 31 December. Most of the defenders surrendered without firing their weapons. Batista fled Cuba the next day, leaving the guerrilla fighters victorious. At a rally on 8 January 1959, Castro interrupted his speech to ask Cienfuegos \"¿Voy bien, Camilo?\" (\"Am I doing all right, Camilo?\") His response \"Vas bien, Fidel\" (\"You're doing fine, Fidel\") was taken up by the crowd and became a slogan of the revolution.\n\nFor the next several months, Cienfuegos served as Chief of Staff of the Cuban Army, helped defeat several anti-Castro uprisings, and played a role in implementing the regime's agrarian reforms.\n\nHuber Matos, military chief of Camagüey province, had complained to Fidel Castro that communists were being allowed to occupy leadership positions in the revolutionary government and the army. Finding Castro unwilling to discuss his concerns, Matos, on 19 October, sent a letter to Castro resigning his command. Castro the next day denounced Matos. He sent troops to occupy key positions in Camagüey, expecting incorrectly that Matos would lead a revolt, and named Cienfuegos to take command and to arrest Matos. Cienfuegos arrested Matos on 21 October.\n\nOn the late evening of 28 October 1959, Cienfuegos' Cessna 310 ('FAR-53') disappeared over the Straits of Florida during a night flight, returning from Camagüey to Havana. An immediate search lasted several days, but the plane was not found. By mid-November, the search was called off and Cienfuegos was presumed lost at sea. He quickly became a hero and martyr for the Cuban revolution. Cienfuegos' disappearance remains unexplained. There is some debate in regard to Cienfuegos death, although Cuban government approved historians do not believe that there was any foul play by the government. There is speculation that Fidel was responsible, which Matos believes is the case. Despite the fact of Cienfuegos' evidently exceptional loyalty to Castro, he hesitantly supported the arrest of his friend Matos only days earlier. Che Guevara, who was close to Cienfuegos and named his son Camilo in his honor, dismissed the notion of Castro's involvement. Others offer the possibility that a Cuban air force fighter plane mistook Cienfuegos' plane for a hostile intruder and shot it down. In the words of U.S. Ambassador Philip Bonsal, Cienfuegos enjoyed Havana's nightlife and he \"may have had a penchant for friendships and associations deemed undesirable by some of his more austere revolutionary comrades\". There has also been speculation that Cienfuegos, unhappy with the move towards communism under Castro, faked his death and fled to Ybor City in Tampa\n\nChe Guevara stated about Cienfuegos the following:\n\nCuba has named a socialist award, the Order of Cienfuegos, after him. On 28 October, school children throughout Cuba throw flowers into the sea or a river to honor Camilo Cienfuegos, repeating the spontaneous tribute of the Cubans who tossed flowers into the ocean when they heard his plane had been lost over the Cuba Florida Strait. Camilo is also remembered on the 20 Cuban peso bill and the 20 Cuban convertible peso bill. He was also pictured on the 40-cent coins, now discontinued. \n\nThe University of Matanzas bears the name \"Camilo Cienfuegos.\" There are six military high schools named \"Camilo Cienfuegos,\" which provide pre-military training to students aged 11 to 17. The neighborhood known until 1950 as \"Central Hershey,\" in the municipality of Santa Cruz del Norte, Havana, was renamed Central Camilo Cienfuegos.\n\nA museum dedicated to Cienfuegos –the Monumento y MuseoCamilo Cienfuegos– was built after his death in Yaguajay, at the site of the barracks of the Batista's forces during the 1958 battle. The museum includes a diorama of the battle, as well as material relating to Cienfuegos' life before, during, and after the revolution. A large statue of him stands in front of the museum.\n\nIn the 2008 film \"Che\", the character of Cienfuegos was \"played with great verve\" by Santiago Cabrera.\n\nOn 28 October 2009, to note the 50th anniversary of his death, a 100-ton steel outline of Cienfuegos' face and the words \"Vas bien, Fidel\" was added to the side of the Ministry of Informatics and Communications building on the Plaza de la Revolución.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5357316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5357316", "title": "Canopic chest", "text": "Canopic chest\n\nCanopic chests are cases used by Ancient Egyptians to contain the internal organs removed during the process of mummification. Once canopic jars began to be used, in the late Fourth Dynasty, the jars were placed within canopic chests. Although the first proven canopic burials date from the Fourth Dynasty reign of Sneferu, there is evidence to suggest that there were canopic installations at Saqqara dating from the Second Dynasty.\n\nCanopic chests had an important place in Egyptian culture. Canopic chests contained the internal organs (viscera) of mummies, so they relate to the Egyptian belief that the afterlife is just as important as life on earth. Egyptians believed that everything had to be perfectly preserved to journey into the land after life and as part of the mummification process they removed viscera from the body. \n\nThe first canopic chests were simple and wooden, but as time went on they became more elaborate. Then, around the 21st Dynasty (1069-945 BCE) the Egyptians decided to leave the viscera inside mummies. But because they had been using canopic chests for thousands of years they kept putting them in tombs, just without anything in them. Canopic chests fell out of use during the Ptolemaic period.\n\nThe style and materials were different at different times, though always reflected the Egyptian ideal of perfectly measured and precise beauty.\n\nThe tall wooden shrine-like chests had bright painting on their sides and a falcon crouching on top. Craftsmen coated the wood with gesso to prepare it for the pigment they then painted it with. All the decoration tells us something about Egyptian religion. The falcon on top represents Sokar, a funerary god and picture on the sides show the chest’s owner worshiping Osiris, god of the afterlife; Ra-Horakhty, a combination of the gods Horus and Ra; four sons of Horus, each of whom guards one of the viscera traditional removed during mummification; the dyed pillar, which represents Osiris, and the tyet, which represents Isis. The painting is not as perfectly measured and precise as earlier Egyptian art, because Egyptian civilization was decaying when it was made.\n\n"}
{"id": "3141410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3141410", "title": "Child mortality", "text": "Child mortality\n\nChild mortality, also known as child death, refers to the death of children under the age of 14 and encompasses neonatal mortality, under-5 mortality, and mortality of children aged 5–14. Many child deaths go unreported for a variety of reasons, including lack of death registration and lack of data on child migrants. Without accurate data on child deaths, we cannot fully discover and combat the greatest risks to a child's life.\n\nReduction of child mortality is reflected in several of the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals. Rapid progress has resulted in a significant decline in preventable child deaths since 1990, with the global under-5 mortality rate declining by over half between 1990 and 2016. While in 1990, 12.6 million children under age five died, in 2016 that number fell to 5.6 million children. However, despite advances, there are still 15,000 under-five deaths per day from largely preventable causes. About 80 per cent of these occur in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, and just 6 countries account for half of all under-five deaths: India, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia and China. 45% of these children died during the first 28 days of life.\n\nChild mortality refers to number of child deaths under the age of 5 per 1000 live births. However, the child mortality could be simplified into more specific terms such as prenatal, perinatal, Neonatal, infancy and under 5. Prenatal: child death before the birth, Perinatal: child death before one week of birth, Neonatal: child death before 28 days of birth, Infancy: child death before 1st birthday, and child mortality under 5 refer to any deaths from birth to the 5th birthday.\n\nPerinatal mortality rate: Number of child deaths within first week of birth/ total number of birth\n\nNeonatal mortality rate: number of child deaths within first 28 days of life/ total number of birth\n\nInfancy mortality rate: number of child deaths within first 12 months of life/ total number of birth\n\nUnder 5 mortality rates: number of child deaths within 5th birthday/ total number of birth\n\nThe leading causes of death of children under five include:\n\n\nThere is variation of child mortality around the world; countries that are in the second or third stage of the Demographic Transition Mode (DTM) have higher rates of child mortality than countries in the fourth or fifth state of the DTM. Chad infant mortality is about 96 per 1,000 live births. And developed country such as Japan infant mortality is about 2.2 per 1,000 live births. In 2010, there were estimated to 7.6 million child deaths around the world and most of it occurred in less developed countries and 4.7 million died from infection and disorder. Child mortality isn’t only caused by infection and disorder, it is also caused by premature birth, birth defect, new born infection, birth complication, and disease like malaria, sepsis, and diarrhea. In less developed countries, malnutrition is the main source of child mortality. Pneumonia, diarrhea and malaria together are the cause of 1 out of every 3 child deaths before the age of 5 and nearly half of under-five deaths globally are attributable to under nutrition.\n\nChild survival is a field of public health concerned with reducing child mortality. Child survival \ninterventions are designed to address the most common causes of child deaths that occur, which include diarrhea, pneumonia, malaria, and neonatal conditions. Of the portion of children under the age of 5 alone, an estimated 5.6 million children die each year mostly from such preventable causes.\n\nThe child survival strategies and interventions are in line with the fourth Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) which focused on reducing child mortality by 2/3 of children under five before the year 2015. In 2015, the MDGs were replaced with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which aim to end these deaths by 2030. In order to achieve SDG targets, progress must be accelerated in more than 1/4 of all countries (most of which are in sub-Saharan Africa) in order to achieve targets for under-5 mortality, and in 60 countries (many in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia) to achieve targets for neonatal mortality. Without accelerated progress, 60 million children under age 5 will die between 2017 and 2030, about half of which would be newborns.\n\nTwo-thirds of child deaths are preventable. Most of the children who die each year could be saved by low-tech, evidence-based, cost-effective measures such as vaccines, antibiotics, micronutrient supplementation, insecticide-treated bed nets, improved family care and breastfeeding practices, and oral rehydration therapy. Empowering women, removing financial and social barriers to accessing basic services, developing innovations that make the supply of critical services more available to the poor and increasing local accountability of health systems are policy interventions that have allowed health systems to improve equity and reduce mortality.\n\nIn developing countries, child mortality rates related to respiratory and diarrheal diseases can be reduced by introducing simple behavioral changes, such as handwashing with soap. This simple action can reduce the rate of mortality from these diseases by almost 50 per cent.\n\nProven, cost-effective interventions can save the lives of millions of children per year. The UN Vaccine division as of 2014 supported 36% of the world's children in order to best improve their survival chances, yet still, low-cost immunization interventions do not reach 30 million children despite success in reducing polio, tetanus, and measles. Measles and tetanus still kill more than 1 million children under 5 each year. Vitamin A supplementation costs only $0.02 for each capsule and given 2–3 times a year will prevent blindness and death. Although vitamin A supplementation has been shown to reduce all-cause mortality by 12 to 24 per cent, only 70 per cent of targeted children were reached in 2015. Between 250,000 and 500,000 children become blind every year, with 70 percent of them dying within 12 months. Oral rehydration therapy (ORT) is an effective treatment for lost liquids through diarrhea; yet only 4 in 10 (44 per cent) of children ill with diarrhea are treated with ORT.\n\nEssential newborn care - including immunizing mothers against tetanus, ensuring clean delivery practices in a hygienic birthing environment, drying and wrapping the baby immediately after birth, providing necessary warmth, and promoting immediate and continued breastfeeding, immunization, and treatment of infections with antibiotics - could save the lives of 3 million newborns annually. Improved sanitation and access to clean drinking water can reduce childhood infections and diarrhea. Over 30% of the world's population does not have access to basic sanitation, and 844 million people use unsafe sources of drinking water.\n\nAgencies promoting and implementing child survival activities worldwide include UNICEF and non-governmental organizations; major child survival donors worldwide include the World Bank, the British Government's Department for International Development, the Canadian International Development Agency and the United States Agency for International Development. In the United States, most non-governmental child survival agencies belong to the CORE Group, a coalition working, through collaborative action, to save the lives of young children in the world's poorest countries.\n\nChild mortality has been dropping as each country reaches a high stage of DTM. From 2000 to 2010, child mortality has dropped from 9.6 million to 7.6 million. In order to reduce child mortality rates, there needs to be better education, higher standards of healthcare and more caution in childbearing. Child mortality could be reduced by attendance of professionals at birth and by breastfeeding and through access to clean water, sanitation, and immunization. In 2016, the world average was 41 (4.1%), down from 93 (9.3%) in 1990. This is equivalent to 5.6 million children less than five years old dying in 2016.\n\nHuge disparities in under-5 mortality rates exist. Globally, the risk of a child dying in the country with the highest under-5 mortality rate is about 60 times higher than in the country with the lowest under-5 mortality rate. Sub-Saharan Africa remains the region with the highest under-5 mortality rates in the world: All six countries with rates above 100 deaths per 1,000 live births are in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nFurthermore, approximately 80% of under-5 deaths occur in only two regions: sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. 6 countries account for half of the global under-5 deaths, namely, India, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia and China. India and Nigeria alone account for almost a third (32 per cent) of the global under-five deaths.\n\nLikewise, there are disparities between wealthy and poor households in developing countries. According to a Save the Children paper, children from the poorest households in India are three times more likely to die before their fifth birthday than those from the richest households.\n\nThe child survival rate of nations varies with factors such as fertility rate and income distribution; the change in distribution shows a strong correlation between child survival and income distribution as well as fertility rate, where increasing child survival allows the average income to increase as well as the average fertility rate to decrease.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1628229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1628229", "title": "Cy-Kill", "text": "Cy-Kill\n\nCy-Kill is the name of several fictional characters from the Gobots, Robo Machines and Transformers toy line and fiction. Introduced as a toy in 1983, he is leader of the Renegade Gobot faction and the main antagonist of the animated series, where he was voiced by Bernard Erhard. He was the main villain of the \"Challenge of the Gobots\" animated series, who later appeared in the Gobots feature film. After the Gobots properties were purchased by Hasbro he made an appearance in a Transformers story. Hasbro has also used the name Cy-Kill for supporting characters in Transformers fiction.\n\nIn \"Challenge of the Gobots\", Cy-Kill was the leader of the evil Renegades. He was originally a member of the Guardians and friend of Leader-1. He wanted to be the sole ruler of Gobotron to better protect it (since he felt he was the mightiest guardian), but Leader-1 believed in democracy. This led Cy-Kill to break away from the Guardians and become the leader of the Renegades. He sought to conquer the Gobot homeworld and have all the power for himself. He was very ruthless and a thorn in the side of the Guardians.\n\nCy-Kill attempted to invade Earth with the help of crooked Unicom scientist Doctor Braxis, but his plans were thwarted by the Guardians.\n\nThe Guardians were able to eventually capture him. Unfortunately he used his wheels against the guards to aid his escape (since his weapons were disconnected), causing the release of his lieutenant Fitor (also a former Guardian). Because of Fitor's aid, Cy-Kill was able to escape to his massive mobile base, Roguestar, and threaten Gobotron once again. Although an attempted coup by the Master Renegade allowed the Guardians to assemble the Courageous and save both Earth and Gobotron, Cy-Kill would remain at large, threatening both planets.\n\nThe Guardians set up a lab to test their power suits on Earth. With Defendor and Blaster patrolling the lab Baron Von Joy and Path Finder tested a new suit on Dozer. Cy-Kill captured and tried to brainwash Scooter, making him sabotage the lab and self destructing. Rest-Q check out Scooter, but Scooter refused to be examined. Eventually Scooter was freed from Renegade control. Cy-Kill, Cop-Tur, Crasher, Geeper-Creeper, Pincher, and Snoop attacked the lab, but it was defended by Leader-1, Baron Von Joy, Blaster, Dozer, Dumper, Road Ranger, Scooter, Scratch and Turbo. Although the Guardians were winning the battle, an accidental backfire from Baron Von Joy's weapon allowed the Renegades to escape.\n\nCy-Kill, Cop-Tur, Crasher and Snoop attacked Leader-1, Turbo, Scooter and Small Foot. Crasher wounded Small Foot. After attaining recordings of the Guardians the Renegades retreated. Using the recordings Cy-Kill had Herr Fiend program robot duplicates of the Guardians. When demonstrating the Space Bender weapon to Unicom, Leader-1 learned that the Renegades were attacking Washington. The Renegades ambushed Leader-1 and replaced him with his duplicate. Leading the Command Center back to Gobotron and getting rid of Scooter and Small Foot the Renegades then released duplicates of Path Finder, Rest-Q, Van Guard and Turbo. Small Foot and Scooter were able to capture the Turbo duplicate and learn where their friends were being held. Cy-Kill then replaced Good Night. Using the duplicate Turbo the Guardians infiltrated the Renegade base, freed the captured Guardians and escape from Spoons and Fitor. Although blocked by the Renegades, Scooter used a hologram of Zod to make the Renegades flee. Making it back to Gobotron the Guardians were attacked by the Guardian duplicates. The real Guardians were able to defeat their duplicates with the aid of the real Zeemon, Hans-Cuff and Rest-Q. Cy-Kill then arrived in Thrustor with more duplicates, but Small Foot was able to stop with robots using the Space Bender, which would fuse their robot brains.\n\nCy-Kill lead the Renegade Gobot forces who aided the Rock Lord Magmar on the planet Cordax.\n\nCy-Kill appeared in the story \"Scooter's Mighty Magnet\" with his minions Cop-Tur, Crasher, Creepy and Vamp.\n\nCy-Kill was featured in the 1986 children's book \"Collision Course Comet - Robo Machine Featuring The Challenge Of Gobots\".\n\nCy-Kill appeared in the 1985 Robo Machine book \"The Wagner Sirens\".\n\nIn the \"Eagle\" comic strip \"Robo Machines\", Cy-Kill was a petty criminal on Robotron, already known to the Security Forces, before submitting himself to Stron-Domez' Robo Machine process, which added a transformation mechanism to his cybernetic body. While the initial attempt to assassinate the planet's president failed, Cy-Kill at least aided Stron-Domez' escape. He was modified on arrival on Earth, given a new fission cannon weapon by Stron-Domez. However, he held feelings of contempt for fellow Robo Machine Tank, and these bubbled over during their attack on Cholkham, when Cy-Kill was tricked into fighting his Renegade comrade. When the Security Forces tracked the Renegades to their Birmingham factory, Cy-Kill was the only Robo Machine to escape, carrying Stron-Domez to safety. He then performed an operation on his master to convert him into Zod.\n\nCy-Kill then coerced a variety of human tramps and vagrants to work in Zod's new factory, situated on the outskirts of London. However, he began to dislike Zod after the monster stole the pleasure of killing the SF Robo Machine Carry-All from him. Cy-Kill also grew more ambitious, and modified the brain of the Devil Invader Casmodon so it would obey him over Zod. He was briefly disabled by Leader One at the scrapyard. He showed his contempt for Zod by abandoning his damaged ersatz creator in the scrapyard, intending to observe and support Casmodon's attack on London. However, he was detained fighting the SF robot Scooter outside the city. Scooter, with the aid of human Charlie Brampton, managed to trick him into being hit by a train, delaying him while Casmodon was defeated. He attempted to shoo them down once he extricated himself, but was driven off by Leader One. Frustrated at the Devil Invader's damage, he set off after the remaining SF forces by himself, and his attack was enough to cause the depleted Guardians to withdraw from Earth. At the end of the series, Cy-Kill was left on Earth, seemingly with Casmodon at his disposal.\n\nCy-Kill appeared among the group investigating the Cataclysm destroying their universe in \"Fun Publications\" story \"Withered Hope\".\n\nIn \"Transcendent\" Breakaway, Landquake and Skyfall arrive on a parallel Transtech Cybertron, in the city of Axiom Nexus. They are greeted by that world's Cheetor and Silverbolt, and are worried that Cliffjumper has gone missing. The arrivals are told that they are among many to arrive on this world and are brought to \"processing\". Among those waiting in processing are Autoceptor, Bad Boy, Charger with Fire Beast, Cosmos, Cy-Kill, Path Finder, \"Universe\" Repugnus, Sky-Byte, Small Foot and Treds. After processing the three Autobots are greeted by the ancient Autobot Alpha Trion and taught in the ways of outworlders in Axiom Nexus. Breakaway is then abducted by Transtech Shockwave.\n\nCy-Kill has appeared in the animated comedy series \"Robot Chicken\".\n\nHe had no dialogue in his first appearance, but his voice was done by Frank Welker in his second one.\n\n\n\n\n\nSince 2002, Cy-Kill (as well as other GoBots) has made several cameo appearances in the \"Transformers\" comics. He is constantly destroyed as a running gag, in most of these appearances (and in a story that had the Autobots as the antagonists, \"Leader-1\" was killed instead); this itself would be parodied by the webcomic \"Shortpacked\".\n\nCy-Kill made three appearances in Dreamwave Productions \"Transformers\" comic book series. The first was in the \"\" comic as one of the unnamed Decepticons killed by the heralds of Unicron. The second, in the \"War and Peace\" miniseries, has Shockwave is overseeing the reactivation of the smelting pools; the two robots being executed within them are Cy-Kill and Leader-1. Lastly, in a flashback in the ongoing \"Generation One\" series, he was a gladiator who was defeated by Megatron.\nIn a nod to Dreamwave Production's portrayal of Cy-Kill as Megatron's opponent, IDW Publishing also featured a clash between the two of them in the second issue of \"\". In the rebooted origin of the Decepticons, both Megatron and Cy-Kill are combatants in the illegal gladiatorial games held in Kaon. This version of Cy-Kill is much taller and designed to fit in more with the general look of the other Cybertronians. He meets a gruesome fate as, after being impaled and crushed under Megatron, he is executed with his own weapon.\n\"Transtech\" versions Cy-kill and Scooter appear among the guards of Shockwave in the story \"Transcendent\" by Fun Publications. They are attacked in the raid on Shockwave's lab by Alpha Trion to free Breakaway.\nCy-Kill made a cameo in the \"Transformers Animated\"-related comic books published by Fun Publications.\n\n"}
{"id": "23301691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23301691", "title": "Death of Neda Agha-Soltan", "text": "Death of Neda Agha-Soltan\n\nFootage of the death of Neda Agha-Soltan ( – \"Nedâ Âghâ-Soltân\"; 23 January 1983 – 20 June 2009) drew worldwide attention after she was shot dead during the 2009 Iranian election protests. Agha-Soltan, a student of philosophy, was participating in the protests, accompanied by her music teacher, and was walking back to her car when she was fatally shot in the chest.\n\nThe murderer of Neda is disputed. According to Western media outlets such as CNN, the BBC and Fox News, she was shot by the Basij, a paramilitary organization. Her death was captured on video by bystanders and broadcast over the Internet, and the video became a rallying point for the opposition. Agha-Soltan's death became iconic in the struggle of Iranian protesters against the disputed election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.\n\n\"Nedā\" (ندا) is a word used in Classic Persian and modern Persian to mean \"voice\", \"calling\" (sometimes understood as a \"divine message\", but this is not the etymological sense of \"ندا\"), and she has been referred to as the \"voice of Iran\".\n\nAgha-Soltan was the middle child of a middle-class family of three children, whose family resided in a fourth floor flat on Meshkini Street in the Tehranpars district of Tehran. Her father is a civil servant and her mother is a homemaker. She was graduating from Islamic Azad University, where she had studied Islamic theology as well as secular philosophies, but she withdrew after two semesters of study for two reasons, one being a disagreement with her husband Amir and his family, and the other being the atmosphere and the pressure of the authorities towards her appearance and dress in the university. She was divorced, and according to her mother, had difficulty in finding work because of how employers perceived her.\n\nAgha-Soltan was an aspiring underground musician, who was studying her craft through private voice and music lessons. She had studied the violin and had an as-yet-undelivered piano on order at the time of her death. She worked for her family's travel agency. It was in Turkey, more than two months prior to her death, that she met her fiancé, 37-year-old Caspian Makan, who worked as a photojournalist and filmmaker in Tehran, and after that she changed her mind about becoming a tour guide and decided to start photography with him. Agha-Soltan enjoyed travelling. She had studied Turkish, hoping it would aid her as a guide for Iranians on foreign tours in Turkey.\n\nThose who knew her maintain that Agha-Soltan had not previously been very political – she had not supported any particular candidate in the 2009 Iran elections – but that anger over the election results prompted her to join the protest. Her voice and music teacher, Hamid Panahi, who was accompanying Agha-Soltan during the protest and can be seen on the video trying to comfort the dying woman, told the media: \"She couldn't stand the injustice of it.\" Panahi went on to state: \"All she wanted was the proper vote of the people to be counted.\"\n\nHer name is often miscited as \"Neda Soltani\". Neda Soltani is a different woman, whose Facebook profile photo was mistakenly published in many articles about the incident. She tried in vain to remove her photo from the internet. Claims from both sides have been made, including claims from the Iranian government that she was the same person as Agha-Soltan and had faked her own death; and others who claimed that she was herself an agent of the Iranian government impersonating Agha-Soltan to sully her memory. Within two weeks, she had fled from Iran and was granted asylum in Germany in 2010.\n\nOn 20 June 2009, at around 6:30 p.m., Neda Agha-Soltan was sitting in her Peugeot 206 in traffic on Kargar Avenue in Tehran. She was accompanied by her music teacher, Hamid Panahi. They were on their way to participate in the protests against the results of the 2009 Iranian presidential election. The car's air conditioner was not working well, so she stopped her car some distance from the main protests and got out on foot to escape the heat. She was standing and observing the sporadic protests in the area when she was shot in the chest.\n\nAs captured on amateur video, she collapsed to the ground and was attended to by a doctor, her music teacher, and others from the crowd. Someone in the crowd around her shouted, \"She has been shot! Someone, come and take her!\" The videos were accompanied by a message from a doctor, later identified as Arash Hejazi, who said he had been present during the incident (but fled Iran out of fear of government reprisals):\n\nHer last words were, \"I'm burning, I'm burning!\" according to Panahi. She died en route to Tehran's Shariati hospital. However, the civilian physician who tended to Neda in the video stated that Neda died on the scene. Hejazi, standing one metre away from her when she was shot, tried to stanch her wound with his hands. Hejazi said nearby members of the crowd pulled a man from his motorcycle while shouting: \"We got him, we got him,\" disarmed him, obtained his identity card and identified him as a member of the Basij government militia. The militiaman was shouting, \"I didn't want to kill her.\" The protesters let him go, but they kept the alleged killer's identity card and took many photographs of him. A recent documentary on the shooting contained a previously unseen clip of demonstrators capturing the militiaman seconds after the shooting.\n\nIranian state TV alleged that Neda Agha-Soltani was carrying blood in a concealed vessel within her mouth, a common practice of the MKO, which she then broke to resemble internal bleeding.\n\nThe videos spread across the internet virally, quickly gaining the attention of international media and viewers. Discussions about the incident on Twitter, using a hashtag of #neda, became one of the \"'trending topics'\" by the end of the day on 20 June 2009. The incident was not originally reported by the state-controlled Iranian media, but was instead first reported on by international media. The video was shown on CNN and other news networks.\n\nThere are three videos depicting her death. One shows her collapsing to the ground, apparently still conscious. The second shows her only after she appears to lose consciousness and begins to bleed heavily. The third video shows her just as she begins to bleed profusely.\n\nIn the first video, the cameraman approaches a group of people huddled together in front of a parked car at the side of the street. As he moves closer, she can be seen collapsing to the pavement with a large bloodstain at her feet. Two men, Hamid Panahi and Arash Hejazi, are seen trying to revive her. As seconds pass, her eyes roll to one side and she appears to lose consciousness. Blood begins to pour from her nose and mouth, and screams are heard. The man next to her can apparently be heard speaking in the first video, saying her name: Neda, don't be afraid. Neda, don't be afraid. [obscured by others yelling] Neda, stay with me. Neda stay with me!\n\nIn the second video, the cameraman approaches her and the two men; the camera passes over them and centers on her face; her stare is blank and she is bleeding profusely from her nose and mouth. Loud screaming can be heard.\n\nAgha-Soltan's death was \"probably the most widely witnessed death in human history,\" according to \"Time\" magazine. The videos were awarded the George Polk Award for Videography in 2009.\n\nThe man accused by opposition sources of killing Neda Agha-Soltan was identified as Abbas Kargar Javid, a Basij government militiaman, after photographs of the Basiji's ID cards appeared on the internet, according to \"The Times\". Opposition critics and pro-government sources allege that Western intelligence agencies carried out the shooting.\n\nAfter being pronounced dead at Shari'ati hospital, Agha-Soltan was buried at the Behesht-e Zahra cemetery in southern Tehran; she was denied a proper funeral by government authorities. The authorities had allegedly set aside empty graves for those killed during the protests. Her family agreed to the removal of her organs for transplanting to medical patients. The Iranian government issued a ban on collective prayers in mosques for Agha-Soltan in the aftermath of the incident. Opposition figure Soona Samsami, the executive director of the Women's Freedom Forum, who was relaying information about the protests inside Iran to international media outlets, told the foreign press that Agha-Soltan's immediate family were threatened by authorities if they permitted a gathering to mourn her. Samsami stated, \"They were threatened that if people wanted to gather there the family would be charged and punished.\"\n\nCaspian Makan (Agha-Soltan's fiancé) told the BBC: \"Neda had said that even if she lost her life and got a bullet in her heart, she would carry on.\" Pro-government activists have cited this as contradictory to the claim of not being involved in the protests and simply being in the area due to the breakdown of the air conditioning in her car.\n\n\"Time\" and other news sources speculated that because of the widespread attention given to Āghā-Soltān's story by social media networks and mainstream news organizations, she is already being hailed as a martyr. There was also speculation that the Shi'ite cycle of mourning on the third (23 June), seventh (27 June), and 40th (30 July) day after a person's death may give the protests sustained momentum, in similar fashion to the Iranian Revolution, where each commemoration of a demonstrator's death sparked renewed protests, resulting in more deaths, feeding a cycle that eventually resulted in the overthrowing of Iran's monarchy.\n\nOn 22 June, Iranian presidential candidates Mehdi Karroubi and Mir-Hossein Mousavi, who were contesting the validity of the election of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, called upon Iranian citizens to commemorate Āghā-Soltān. Karroubi announced his appeal on Facebook, asking demonstrators to gather in the center of the Iranian capital at 4:00 pm local time. The chief of the Tehran Police announced that his department had no involvement in the fatal incident. Later that day, riot police armed with live ammunition and tear gas dispersed a crowd of between 200 and 1,000 protesters who had gathered in Tehran's Haft-e Tir Square. The protests followed online calls for tribute to Āghā-Soltān and others killed during the demonstrations. Grand Ayatollah Hossein-Ali Montazeri, a senior Iranian cleric and vocal critic of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, called for three days of public mourning for the death of Nedā.\n\nCāspian Mākān, following Nedā's death, escaped to Canada. He visited Israel in March 2010 as a guest of Israel's Channel 2 and stated \"I have come here out of the brotherhood of nations.\"\n\nAbout 70 mourners gathered outside Niloufar mosque in Abbas Abad, where the Āghā-Soltān family attended services. A leaflet posted on the mosque's door read, \"There is no commemoration here for Nedā Āghā-Soltān.\" Many in the crowd wore black. Some recited poems. After about ten minutes, paramilitary forces arrived on motorcycles and dispersed the attendees.\n\nOn 23 June, it was reported that, to prevent Āghā-Soltān's family's home from becoming a place of pilgrimage, government authorities told the family to remove the black mourning banners from outside the home.\n\nOn 24 June, \"The Guardian\" reported the results of interviews of neighbours who said Āghā-Soltān's family had been forced to vacate their apartment some days after her death. Reuters reported that supporters of presidential candidate Mir-Hossein Mousavi stated they would release thousands of balloons on 26 June 2009 with the message \"Nedā you will always remain in our hearts\" imprinted on them.\n\nOn 31 July 2009, the 40th day from the killings of such youth as Nedā Āghā-Soltān, Sohrāb Ā'arābi and Āshkān Sohrābi was held in Tehran where thousands of Iranians mourned for the loss of the victims. Reports also came of gatherings in the thousands in cities of Rasht, Shirāz and Mashad.\n\nOn 16 November 2009, supporters of the Iranian regime desecrated her grave and removed her gravestone. Later, on 31 December 2009, supporters of the Iranian government defaced the portrait on her grave by shooting at it multiple times.\n\nIran's ambassador to Mexico, Mohammad Hassan Ghadiri, suggested in an interview on 25 June 2009 that the CIA could have been involved in Āghā-Soltān's death. Ambassador Ghadiri questioned how the shooting was video taped so effectively, asserting that the incident occurred away from other demonstrations. He also stated that using a woman would be more effective in accomplishing the goals the CIA is purported to desire. Ambassador Ghadiri said \"the bullet that was found in her head was not a bullet that you could find in Iran.\" (he thought she was shot in head.) The account of Doctor Hejazi was that Āghā-Soltān was shot in the chest from the front, as there was no exit wound, and the video evidence showing a wound to the chest. Hejāzi was the man seen in the video placing his hands on Āghā-Soltān's chest to staunch her bleeding (as described above under section Circumstances of death). Wolf Blitzer was incredulous that Ghadiri would so boldly offer a conspiracy theory or obvious disinformation as an explanation:\n\nDuring his Friday sermon on June 26, the Supreme Leader's appointed speaker, Ayatollah Ahmad Khatami, said \"evidence shows that [protesters] have done it themselves and have raised propaganda against the system.\" Eyewitnesses at the scene of the shooting said Āghā-Soltān was shot by a member of the pro-government Basij militia. Some of the eyewitnesses say she was shot from the ground, some say from the rooftop.\n\nIran's police chief, brigadier general Āhmadi-Moghaddam told the press on 30 June 2009 that the Iranian police and Ministry of Intelligence filed an arrest warrant for Interpol to arrest Ārash Hejāzi, an eyewitness of Nedā's death, for poisoning the international atmosphere against the Iranian government and telling misinformation about Nedā's death by giving his account of the incident to foreign news media.\n\nEzzatollah Zarghami, the head of Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting, told the press on 4 July 2009 that the videos of Nedā's death were all made by BBC and CNN.\n\nIn December 2009, Iranian state television aired a report about Āghā-Soltān's death, portraying it as a western plot. In the programme, it was argued that Āghā-Soltān simulated her death with accomplices, and that she was killed afterwards, having no knowledge of her partners' intentions.\n\nAccording to \"The Times\", quoted from Mākān and Āghā-Soltān's parents, officials tried to get them to confess that it was opposition protestors that had killed Nedā, and not government militiamen. They were given incentives such as declaring Nedā to be a martyr and giving the family a pension if they complied. Makan and Nedā's family refused the offer. Panāhi was later forced by the government to change his story. The new version of events were retold by Panāhi on state television.\n\nIn December 2009, her family accused the security forces of killing her, although even most western press accounts so far have stopped short of calling it a targeted political assassination. This was the strongest statement the family of Nedā Āghā-Soltān made since her death. This accusation followed the spread of an Iranian government-proposed theory blaming a \"conspiracy of western governments\" for the killing. Her father told the BBC's Persian service by telephone from Iran: \"I openly declare that no one, apart from the government, killed Nedā. Her killer can only be from the government.\"\n\nThe Neda Agha-Soltan Graduate Scholarship is a scholarship for post-graduate philosophy students at The Queen's College, Oxford, with preference given to students of Iranian citizenship or heritage. The college received offers from two anonymous donors to establish a scholarship, followed by many individual donations from members of the public, former students of Queen's and others to reach the £70,000 needed to establish the scholarship on a permanent basis. The first recipient of the scholarship was Arianne Shahvis, a philosophy student of Iranian descent, who described the award as \"a great honour\". In November 2009, Iran's embassy in London sent a letter of protest to the college about the scholarship.\n\n"}
{"id": "19573121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19573121", "title": "Debbie Purdy", "text": "Debbie Purdy\n\nDebbie Purdy (4 May 1963 – 23 December 2014) was a British music journalist and political activist from Bradford, West Yorkshire, with primary progressive multiple sclerosis, notable for her challenge to the law in England and Wales as relates to assisted suicide. On 20 September 2009, it was announced that guidelines on assisted suicide law would be published by the UK Government. The guidelines for England and Wales \"come after a legal battle won by Debbie Purdy\", as \"Law Lords accepted earlier this year that [Purdy] had a right to know whether her husband would be prosecuted if he helped her to travel abroad to commit suicide.\"\n\nDebbie Purdy and her counsel David Pannick QC argued that the Director of Public Prosecutions (Ken Macdonald QC) was infringing on her human rights by failing to clarify how the Suicide Act 1961 is enforced. The DPP counsel took the position that the law does not require the DPP to make any further clarification of the Act: they argue that the Act and further information contained in the Code for Crown Prosecutors provide sufficient information.\n\nPurdy's particular concern was to discover if any actions her husband, Omar Puente, took in assisting her suicide would lead to his prosecution. The penalty for those who \"aid, abet, counsel or procure the suicide of another\" is a maximum of 14 years. No family member of the 92 Britons who have gone abroad for an assisted suicide has been prosecuted but some have been charged and have had to wait for months before hearing the charges have been dropped. Purdy said that if her husband would be exposed to prosecution for helping her travel to Switzerland to a Dignitas clinic to die, she would make the journey sooner whilst she was able to travel unassisted. This would save her husband from exposure to the law but would have forced Purdy to make her decision on dying before she felt it was absolutely necessary. \n\nThe hearing began on 2 October 2008 and was complete soon after. The venue was the High Court of Justice. It proceeded before Lord Justice Scott Baker and Mr Justice Aikens. In court the DPP said that Purdy could not be given any reassurance that her husband would not be prosecuted as the law was clear that assisting suicide is an offence.\n\nOn 10 December 2008 Sky TV broadcast a programme on which a man with motor neurone disease was shown committing suicide with assistance. There had also been the UK case of a Mr James who went to Switzerland with the aid of his parents after being paralysed whilst playing rugby and the Department of Public Prosecutions determined that to prosecute the parents would be against the public interest. These two events led to the issue of assisted suicide making the first story on the BBC's \"Newsnight\". Purdy appeared to debate the issue and denied that it is society that makes disabled people wish to kill themselves and reasserted her belief that it is right to be able to seek assistance when one is physically incapable of committing suicide oneself.\n\nPurdy met her husband Omar Puente in Singapore when he was playing with a band, and they married in 1998. She was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis after she found her feet felt heavy when out dancing. She later used a wheelchair for mobility and both her sight and hearing began to deteriorate. Purdy entered the Marie Curie Hospice in Bradford in June 2013 and in December 2013 she began to intermittently refuse food. She described the length of time it was taking to die as \"agonising\". Purdy died on 23 December 2014, aged 51.\n\n"}
{"id": "5146809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5146809", "title": "Dennis Hof", "text": "Dennis Hof\n\nDennis Hof (October 14, 1946 – October 16, 2018) was an American brothel owner, entrepreneur, restaurateur, politician and star of the HBO series . He was best known as the owner of seven legal brothels in Nevada. Several of his brothels are in Moundhouse, Nevada, a few minutes outside Carson City. His best-known brothel is the Moonlite BunnyRanch. Hof wrote an autobiography, \"The Art Of The Pimp\". He was posthumously elected to the Nevada Assembly less than one month after his death.\n\nHof owned gas stations, first in Arizona and later in Nevada, before going into the brothel business.\n\nHof purchased and remodeled The Moonlite BunnyRanch in 1992, which had been founded in 1955; he then purchased a second brothel, Kitty's, and renamed it The Love Ranch North. Hof purchased two additional brothels from longtime Nye County brothel proprietor Joe Richards: the Cherry Patch in Crystal, Nevada, renamed the Love Ranch Vegas, and the Cherry Patch II in Amargosa Valley, Nevada, renamed the Alien Cathouse. On September 8, 2018, it was announced that the Alien Cathouse had been sold to business owner Raman Sharma.\n\nIn contrast to other Nevada brothel owners, who prefer to keep a low profile, and despite Nevada laws banning brothel advertising, Hof maintained a high profile to create publicity for his brothels. A gregarious man, Hof was the president of the Nevada Brothel Owners' Association, and its lobbyist; the Bunny Ranch is the closest brothel to the state capital, Carson City.\n\nHof operated a website; the \"working girls\" are encouraged to cultivate online relationships with both potential and past clients. He often appeared on talk shows, including Oprah Winfrey, The Today Show, The View, Fox News, Howard Stern, Lex and Terry, and many others. Hof employed adult film stars, including Sunset Thomas with whom he also had a romantic relationship. He also gave free offers to soldiers returning from duty.\n\nIn early 2009, due to the recession, State Senator Bob Coffin (D) proposed legalizing prostitution statewide for tax purposes. Hof was prominently featured in a number of media reports saying he would expand into Las Vegas given the opportunity, and was looking at some closed casinos as property. However, the Nevada lawmakers chose not to consider the proposal of statewide legal prostitution during that legislative session.\n\nHof and the Moonlite Bunny Ranch brothel were featured in the HBO series \"\", which ran from 2002 to 2014. Two documentary series followed: \"\" premiered in 2005, and \"\" appeared in 2007. Hof also was the producer of the Showtime series \"Working Girls in Bed\".\n\nBoth featured a look at the inner workings of a legal house of prostitution as well as the life of a number of the working girls, borrowing some techniques from reality television, such as camera-only interviews and staged spontaneity.\n\nHof appears as himself in an \"underground\" mall shop called \"Pro-Life Sex\" in the 2014 indie film \"Alongside Night\". In 1998 Hof was in the Hughes Brothers documentary \"American Pimp\" where notably he was the only caucasian the brothers interviewed. At one point in the documentary he very nearly accurately predicted his own death, \"going out getting the best piece of pussy\".\n\nHof had speaking engagements at Oxford University and Trinity College, Dublin. \"The New Yorker\" ran an 11-page article by Rebecca Mead about him, entitled \"American Pimp\", in 2001.\n\nHof appeared on Walton and Johnson, \"Brand X with Russell Brand\", \"Rover's Morning Glory\", \"The Johnny Dare Morning Show\", \"Todd and Tyler\", \"American Pimp\", \"The Tyra Banks Show\", Lex and Terry, the \"Opie and Anthony Show\", \"The Adam Carolla Show\", \"The Howard Stern Show\", The Mike Calta Show, Loveline with Stryker and Dr. Drew, Derek and Romaine, and on \"Dr. Phil\", as well as giving a tour and interview to conservative pundit Sean Hannity on \"Hannity and Colmes\".\n\nHof released a book, \"The Art of the Pimp\", in March 2015. The memoir includes personal accounts from women who worked for him, in which they detail sexual abuse at his hands. It also includes a psychological profile of Hof from psychotherapist Dr. Sheenah Hankin. Dr. Hankin found him to be a narcissist with no empathy, and states of his relationships with his employees, \"Like any pimp, he exploits them. This is sadistic behavior, and it is both unrecognized and denied.\"\n\nIn 1999, Lyon County sheriff's deputy Brian Putzer filed a police report accusing Hof of death threats. According to Deputy Putzer, the threats were spurred when Putzer did a routine walk-through check of one of Hof's brothels and discovered documents showing that Hof was setting up sexual encounters in counties where prostitution is illegal. Putzer states that his superiors \"didn't want to challenge Hof\" as the county is poorly funded and Hof's brothels were a major contributor to the local economy.\n\nIn 2016, a woman who had formerly worked for Hof, Jennifer O'Kane, publicly accused Hof of nonconsensual sexual contact, rape, sexual harassment, and having sex with his workers without a condom. O'Kane stated that Hof regularly gets away with the sexual abuse of his employees due to their status as sex workers, and that she had reported the rape to the D.A.'s office in 2011, but nothing had been pursued. The accusations were similar to statements made in Hof's own memoir by former Hof employees Krissy Summers and Cami Parker, who noted abusive behavior and coerced sexual encounters in the brothel. A detective interviewed O'Kane regarding the accusations but charges were not pursued as there were no other direct witnesses and Hof was running for political office at the time. Deputy District Attorney Katrina Samuels again declined to prosecute the case in 2018, stating that the statute of limitations had passed.\n\nIn December 2017, another former employee, Diana Grandmaison, reported a non-consensual sexual encounter with Hof to the same detective who had investigated the O'Kane case. Grandmaison stated that Hof regularly initiated such encounters with the young girls who worked for him and detailed other forms of work abuse. No further action was taken.\n\nHof endorsed Ron Paul in the 2008 and 2012 presidential elections. He joined the Libertarian Party in 2015.\n\nIn December 2016, he became a \"Trump Republican\".\n\nIn 2016 and 2018, he ran for a seat in the Nevada state legislature, the former as a Libertarian and the latter as a Republican; he lost the first race to James Oscarson but beat him in the GOP primary in 2018. He prevailed in the primary after Nye County officials attempted to remove Hof's campaign signs. However, in an emergency motion before the Federal District of Nevada, Hof prevailed in a First Amendment claim against the county. He was represented in that matter by First Amendment attorney, Marc Randazza.. After winning the primary Hof styled himself as the \"Trump from Pahrump.\"\n\nAt the time of his death, Hof was running for the Nevada Assembly's 36th District. Hof, whose name remained on the ballot (with polling places posting public signage stating that Hof was deceased), posthumously won election to the seat over his Democratic opponent, Lesia Romanov, by a 68.3 to 31.7 percent margin; under the laws of the state of Nevada, the seat will be declared vacant. County commissioners from Lincoln, Nye and Clark counties will conduct a weighted vote to determine Hof's replacement.\n\nIn \"Cathouse: The Musical\", Hof revealed that he only dated prostitutes. \"I don't date civilians [non-working girls].\" The documentary series showed several of his relationships with employees, such as adult film star Sunset Thomas and Heidi Fleiss. In his memoir, Hof disclosed a lack of interest in monogamy and detailed how every one of his relationships ended due to his own infidelity. Hof was a close friend of Fox News personality Tucker Carlson. He once stated that he communicated with Carlson daily to give him ideas for his show.\n\nHof died in his sleep at his Love Ranch South in Crystal, Nevada, on October 16, 2018, following a party for his 72nd birthday that had been attended by Joe Arpaio, Heidi Fleiss, Grover Norquist and Ron Jeremy, the last of whom found Hof unresponsive. Police did not suspect foul play at the time of his death, and no one who was with him the night before noticed any signs of ill-health. Hof's legislature campaign manager Chuck Muth said that Hof was \"having the time of his life\" that night.\n\n"}
{"id": "25457972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25457972", "title": "Duchess Frederica of Württemberg", "text": "Duchess Frederica of Württemberg\n\nDuchess Frederica of Württemberg (; 27 July 1765 – 24 November 1785) was a daughter of Frederick II Eugene, Duke of Württemberg and Friederike Dorothea of Brandenburg-Schwedt.\n\nFrederica was born on 27 July 1765 in Treptow an der Rega, Farther Pomerania (now Trzebiatów, Poland) as the seventh child and second daughter of Frederick II Eugene, Duke of Württemberg and his wife Friederike Dorothea of Brandenburg-Schwedt.\nAmong her siblings were King Frederick of Württemberg, Sophia Dorothea, Empress of Russia, and Elisabeth, Archduchess of Austria.\n\nFrederica's paternal grandparents were Karl Alexander, Duke of Württemberg and Maria Augusta of Thurn and Taxis.\n\nHer maternal grandparents were Margrave Frederick William of Brandenburg-Schwedt and Princess Sophia Dorothea of Prussia, sister of Frederick the Great.\n\nOn 6 June 1781, Frederica married Prince Peter Frederick of Holstein-Gottorp. The marriage was meant to strengthen relations between Russia and Württemberg (Frederica's sister was married to Paul I of Russia, a member of the House of Holstein-Gottorp). They had two sons: Augustus (born in 1783) and George (born in 1784).\n\nAt the age of twenty, Frederica died from childbirth in Vienna on 24 November 1785. Her widowed husband Peter never remarried. He would succeed his cousin William as Grand Duke of Oldenburg in 1823, many years after Frederica's death.\n"}
{"id": "50349553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50349553", "title": "FAM63B", "text": "FAM63B\n\nFAM63B is a protein which in humans is encoded by the gene FAM63B. This gene is highly expressed in humans. The FAM63B gene is also highly conserved throughout evolutionary history. The discovered function of FAM63B is an interaction with the kinesin-1 light chain and the transportation of vaccinia virus from the nucleus to the cell periphery.\n\nFAM63B is located at 15q21.3-q22.1, spanning 90,707 base pairs on chromosome 15.\n\nThe full name of FAM63B is family with sequence similarity 63, member B. FAM63B is also listed by its alias, KIAA1164, in some publications.\n\nThe FAM63B gene encodes a primary transcript that can be alternatively spliced into 9 protein variants. FAM63B variant a is the most common isoform found in humans.\n\nFAM63B is a member of the Pfam super family, and contains a domain of unknown function (DUF544) that is homologous within the protein family. FAM63B protein variant an also contains a bipartite tryptophan binding motif from W476 to W533. Variant a of the protein also contains a hydrophobic stretch of alanine from 567 to 574 and a mixed charge sequence from residue 598 to 617. FAM63B protein may contain a signal sequence specifying return to the endoplasmic reticulum (KDEL) from residue 607 to 621 in variant a.\n\nThe secondary structure of FAM63B is a combination of coils, some α-helices, and few β-sheets. The Phyre 2 program predicts α-helices in 23% of the protein, β-strands in 9% of the protein, and the remaining 59% of the protein as disordered. The disordered regions coincide with the coiled regions predicted by other programs, and this results in the long stretch of coiled protein beginning at the N-terminus. According to the SOUSI program, there is a 16-amino acid-long span from residues 265 to 280 of FAM63B that could be a transmembrane sequence. However, transmembrane sequences generally need to be at least 20 amino acids long in order to be stable in the membrane, so a transmembrane sequence is unlikely. Therefore, FAM63B is not fixed in the membrane of any organelle and is free to move through the cell and between organelles.\n\nNot much is known about the tertiary structure of FAM63B. A predicted folding is shown.\nPost-translational modifications of the FAM63B protein.\nFAM63B has predicted NES (nuclear export signals) at Val274 and Leu277. Also, a NLS (nuclear localization signal) is predicted for FAM63B at RKRK at residue 599. In agreement, Reinhardt’s method for cytoplasmic/nuclear discrimination predicts FAM63B to be located in the nucleus with a reliability of 76.7%. The presence of both NLS and NES signals and O-GlcNAc post-translational modification of FAM63B supports the protein's location in both the nucleus and cytoplasm and the discovered protein function as a shuttle for vaccinia virus between the nucleus and the cell periphery.\n\nFAM63B has moderately-high to high expression and is constitutively expressed. FAM63B is likely ubiquitously expressed in humans.\n\nExpression of FAM63B is high in the embryonic stem cells and differentiated tissues but low or off in embryoid bodies and other progenitor cells, such as the multipotent mesenchymal stem cells. It is likely that FAM63B is expressed during pluripotency and unipotency but is not important for differentiation, as is occurring in embryoid bodies, mesenchymal stem cells, and other progenitor cells.\n\nThe promoter of FAM63B is GXP_5885, located on the positive strand of chromosome 15 from (58770692, 58771462) and is 711 base pairs long.\n\nFAM63B is shown to interact with one protein, KLC-1. KLC-1, kinesin light chain 1, is a protein which recruits kinesin-1 via its cargo binding light chain and contains a bipartite tryptophan binding motif. This motif is present in a vaccinia virus integral membrane protein, A36, that is required for transport of the virus from the perinuclear space to the cell periphery. In the absence of A36, proteins with a bipartite tryptophan binding motif can interact with the kinesin light chain, recruit KLC-1, and promote virus transport from the nucleus to the cytoplasm.\n\nThe discovered function of FAM63B protein is a transporter of vaccinia virus in the human genome. FAM63B contains a bipartite tryptophan binding motif between W476 and W533. The motif also contains a Q residue at the +2 position, which was found to be a frequent occurrence in proteins that bind KLC-1 or KLC-2. FAM63B is among proteins studied that can rescue virus transport to the cell periphery when expressed in A36-deficient cells, successfully replacing the cytoplasmic domain A36 of vaccinia.\n\nThe specific pathology of FAM63B is unknown.\n\nFAM63B is part of four networks regulated by miRNA, three of which are linked to neuronal differentiation and dopaminergic gene expression. These findings indicate that FAM63B could be used as a biomarker for the detection and treatment of schizophrenia. Furthermore, aberrant methylation of FAM63B may play a role in the development of schizophrenia. FAM63B has also been ranked 13 of 25 on a list of associated genes relevant to arthritis.\n\nFAM63B has one paralog, FAM63A, which is a gene of unknown function. FAM63A gene encodes a protein that is 469 amino acids long and 76% similar to FAM63B.\n\nFAM63B has been found in all multicellular and unicellular eukaryotes, including plants but excluding protists and fungi. The gene has also been found in archaea but not bacteria.\nThe most distant homolog of FAM63B is found in \"Thermoplasmatales archaeon\", an archaea that diverged from the human gene 4.25 billion years ago.\n\nFAM63B is a member of the Pfam super family, and contains a domain of unknown function (DUF544) homologous within the protein family. This region of the protein is highly conserved through FAM63B homologs, as is the bipartite tryptophan binding motif of FAM63B and the C-terminus signal sequence.\n\nThe phylogenetic tree below shows a time calibration for the evolution of FAM63B.\n"}
{"id": "333853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=333853", "title": "Frank Watson Dyson", "text": "Frank Watson Dyson\n\nSir Frank Watson Dyson, KBE, FRS, FRSE (8 January 1868 – 25 May 1939) was an English astronomer and Astronomer Royal who is remembered today largely for introducing time signals (\"pips\") from Greenwich, England, and for the role he played in proving Einstein's theory of general relativity.\n\nDyson was born in Measham, near Ashby-de-la-Zouch, Leicestershire, the son of the Rev Watson Dyson, a Baptist minister, and his wife, Frances Dodwell. They moved to Yorkshire in his youth. There he attended Heath Grammar School, Halifax, and subsequently won scholarships to Bradford Grammar School and Trinity College, Cambridge, where he studied mathematics and astronomy, being placed Second Wrangler in 1889.\n\nIn 1894 he was given the post of Senior Assistant at Greenwich Observatory and worked on the Astrographic Catalogue, which was published in 1905.\nHe was appointed Astronomer Royal for Scotland from 1905 to 1910, and Astronomer Royal (and Director of the Royal Greenwich Observatory) from 1910 to 1933. In 1928, he introduced in the Observatory a new free-pendulum clock, the most accurate clock available at that time and organised the regular wireless transmission from the GPO wireless station at Rugby of Greenwich Mean Time. He also, in 1924, introduced the distribution of the \"six pips\" via the BBC. He was for several years President of the British Horological Institute and was awarded their Gold Medal in 1928.\n\nDyson was noted for his study of solar eclipses and was an authority on the spectrum of the corona and on the chromosphere. He is credited with organising expeditions to observe the 1919 solar eclipse at Brazil and Principe, which he somewhat optimistically began preparing for prior to the Armistice of 11 November 1918. Dyson presented his observations of the solar eclipse of May 29, 1919 to a joint meeting of the Royal Society and Royal Astronomical Society on 6 November 1919. The observations confirmed Einstein's theory of the effect of gravity on light which until that time had been received with some scepticism by the scientific community.\n\nDyson died on board a ship while travelling from Australia to England in 1939 and was buried at sea.\n\n\nIn 1894 he married Caroline Bisset Best (d.1937), the daughter of Palemon Best, with whom he had two sons and six daughters.\n\nAlthough Frank Dyson and theoretical physicist Freeman Dyson are not known to be related, their fathers Rev Watson Dyson and George Dyson both hailed from West Yorkshire where the surname originates and is most densely clustered. Freeman Dyson credits Sir Frank with sparking his interest in astronomy: because they shared the same last name, Sir Frank's achievements were discussed by Freeman Dyson's family when he was a young boy. Inspired, Dyson's first attempt at writing was a 1931 piece of juvenilia entitled \"Sir Phillip Robert's Erolunar Collision\" – Sir Philip being a thinly disguised version of Sir Frank.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "371709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371709", "title": "Genetic operator", "text": "Genetic operator\n\nA genetic operator is an operator used in genetic algorithms to guide the algorithm towards a solution to a given problem. There are three main types of operators (mutation, crossover and selection), which must work in conjunction with one another in order for the algorithm to be successful. Genetic operators are used to create and maintain genetic diversity (mutation operator), combine existing solutions (also known as chromosomes) into new solutions (crossover) and select between solutions (selection). In his book discussing the use of genetic programming for the optimization of complex problems, computer scientist John Koza has also identified an 'inversion' or 'permutation' operator; however, the effectiveness of this operator has never been conclusively demonstrated and this operator is rarely discussed.\n\nMutation (or mutation-like) operators are said to be \"unary\" operators, as they only operate on one chromosome at a time. In contrast, crossover operators are said to be \"binary\" operators, as they operate on two chromosomes at a time, combining two existing chromosomes into one new chromosome.\n\nGenetic variation is a necessity for the process of evolution. Genetic operators used in genetic algorithms are analogous to those in the natural world: survival of the fittest, or selection; reproduction (crossover, also called recombination); and mutation.\n\nSelection operators give preference to better solutions (chromosomes), allowing them to pass on their 'genes' to the next generation of the algorithm. The best solutions are determined using some form of objective function (also known as a 'fitness function' in genetic algorithms), before being passed to the crossover operator. Different methods for choosing the best solutions exist, for example, fitness proportionate selection and tournament selection; different methods may choose different solutions as being 'best'. The selection operator may also simply pass the best solutions from the current generation directly to the next generation without being mutated; this is known as \"elitism\" or \"elitist selection\".\n\nCrossover is the process of taking more than one parent solutions (chromosomes) and producing a child solution from them. By recombining portions of good solutions, the genetic algorithm is more likely to create a better solution. As with selection, there are a number of different methods for combining the parent solutions, including the \"edge recombination operator\" (ERO) and the 'cut and splice crossover' and 'uniform crossover' methods. The crossover method is often chosen to closely match the chromosome's representation of the solution; this may become particularly important when variables are grouped together as building blocks, which might be disrupted by a non-respectful crossover operator. Similarly, crossover methods may be particularly suited to certain problems; the ERO is generally considered a good option for solving the travelling salesman problem.\n\nThe mutation operator encourages genetic diversity amongst solutions and attempts to prevent the genetic algorithm converging to a local minimum by stopping the solutions becoming too close to one another. In mutating the current pool of solutions, a given solution may change entirely from the previous solution. By mutating the solutions, a genetic algorithm can reach an improved solution solely through the mutation operator. Again, different methods of mutation may be used; these range from a simple \"bit mutation\" (flipping random bits in a binary string chromosome with some low probability) to more complex mutation methods, which may replace genes in the solution with random values chosen from the uniform distribution or the Gaussian distribution. As with the crossover operator, the mutation method is usually chosen to match the representation of the solution within the chromosome.\n\nWhile each operator acts to improve the solutions produced by the genetic algorithm working individually, the operators must work in conjunction with each other for the algorithm to be successful in finding a good solution. Using the selection operator on its own will tend to fill the solution population with copies of the best solution from the population. If the selection and crossover operators are used without the mutation operator, the algorithm will tend to converge to a local minimum, that is, a good but sub-optimal solution to the problem. Using the mutation operator on its own leads to a random walk through the search space. Only by using all three operators together can the genetic algorithm become a noise-tolerant hill-climbing algorithm, yielding good solutions to the problem.\n"}
{"id": "53947002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53947002", "title": "Gurbaksh Singh Kanhaiya", "text": "Gurbaksh Singh Kanhaiya\n\nGurbaksh Singh Kanhaiya ( 1759 - 1785) was the eldest son and heir of Jai Singh Kanhaiya, the chief of the Kanhaiya Misl. He was the father of Maharani Mehtab Kaur and thus, the father-in-law of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, the founder of the Sikh Empire.\n\nGurbaksh Singh, the only son and heir of Jai Singh Kanhaiya, was born in 1759 to his wife Desan Kaur, who was the widow of Jhanda Singh.He was born into a Sandhu Jat family. His father, Jai Singh, was the founder and leader of the Kanhaiya Misl. Gurbaksh Singh was married at the age of nine to Sada Kaur, a daughter of Sardar Daswandha Singh Alkol. The couple had one child together, a daughter named Mehtab Kaur, who was born in 1782. \n\nShe was married in 1796 to Ranjit Singh, the successor of Maha Singh, the leader of the Sukerchakia Misl, who were a rival of the Kanhaiya Misl.\n\nThe Kanhaiyas, who had replaced the Bhangis as the most powerful \"misl\", disputed Ranjit Singh's father's right to plunder Jammu, and in one of the many skirmishes between the two \"misl\"s, Gurbaksh Singh was killed in battle against Maha singh in February 1785.\n\nIn the absence of any heir, Gurbaksh Singh's widowed wife, Sada Kaur (an intelligent and ambitious woman) became the chief of the Kanhaiya Misl after her father-in-law's death in 1789. She played an important role in Ranjit Singh's rise to power in Punjab and used to lend support of the Kanhaiya \"misl\" to Ranjit Singh till 1821, when she developed differences with him and as a consequence lost her territory to him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3893506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3893506", "title": "Hyejong of Goryeo", "text": "Hyejong of Goryeo\n\nHyejong of Goryeo (912 – 23 October 945) (r. 943–945) was the second King of Goryeo. He was preceded by King Taejo and succeeded by Jeongjong, 3rd Monarch of Goryeo.\n\nHyejong was born to King Taejo and his second wife, Janghwa of the \"Oh\" clan. She was the daughter of the Magistrate of Naju, Oh Daryeon. Taejo met and married her while serving in Naju as a general of Taebong under Gung Ye.\n\nIn 921, Hyejong was proclaimed Crown Prince and Royal Successor with support from General Bak Sul-Hui. Almost immediately after being named Crown Prince, Hyejong followed his father Taejo into battle against Later Baekje and played a major role in numerous victories. In 943, Hyejong rose to the throne upon his father's death.\n\nHyejong's reign was marked with conspiracy and power struggles among Taejo's sons. The first of these conspiracies was led by Princes Wang Yo and Wang So, sons of Taejo and his third consort, Queen Sinmyeongsunseong of the Chungju Yu clan, which possessed considerable political influence. Upon realizing the conspiracy by the two princes, Wang Gyu warned Hyejong of the conspiracy, but plotted to put his grandson on the throne when Hyejong did nothing to stop the conspiracy of the two princes.\n\nHyejong died in 945, during the second year of his reign from disease. He was succeeded by his third brother Jeongjong, 3rd Monarch of Goryeo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49116105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49116105", "title": "Interstitial revolution", "text": "Interstitial revolution\n\nInterstitial revolution is a theoretical means of societal transformation through progressively and strategically enlarging spaces of social empowerment. Interstitial revolution (or transformation) builds on the concept of prefigurative politics which has a long history in anti-capitalist thinking, going back nearly two hundred years in the anarchist tradition. Prefigurativism is neatly summed up by the early twentieth century Constitution of the Industrial Workers of the World which declared: \"By organizing industrially we are forming the structure of the new society within the old.\" In recent years, prominent analytical Marxists (including John Holloway and Erik Olin Wright) have called attention to the lack of strategy for greater systemic change within prefigurativism and have attempted to construct models of societal transformation utilizing interstitial devices as an alternative to the traditional Marxist theory of revolution.\n\nCentral to the concept of interstitial revolution is the perspective of seeing the state as a complex multitude of institutions organized by a dominant power structure, but not so integrated that it controls all activities within it. Interstitial theorists suggest that within this system, radically democratic collectives (such as Worker owned cooperatives) have the opportunity to gain a foothold in the \"cracks\" of the capitalist state. These egalitarian institutions, working on their own or in tandem, can then use their social and economic power along with traditional forms of struggle to outmaneuver and erode limits to their growth imposed by capitalist institutions, thereby creating more space for collective economic and political power. Interstitial theorists state that over time, enough progressive struggles and victories could potentially lead to the overcoming of the capitalist state.\n\nErik Olin Wright points out that there may be boundaries to the growth of an interstitial movement in which the most adept strategies of collective economic and social pressure are not enough to overcome the power of capitalist hegemony. He suggests in this case it may be necessary to resort to a more traditional form of \"ruptural\" revolution. However, he stresses that a substantial network of democratically run organizations is a key foundation to any revolution that wishes to yield a result of deepening democracy and creating the conditions for human flourishing.\n\nWright suggests that the first stage of an interstitial revolution could be starting a cooperative bank. A cooperative bank would function as a normal bank with the exception that it would give loans primarily to organized workers who wished to collectively purchase their employer's company in order to start a worker owned cooperative. Wright says this could be both an answer to a coming small business succession crisis and an opportunity for democratically run companies to gain a foothold in the economy.\n"}
{"id": "15135713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15135713", "title": "Jim Morrison", "text": "Jim Morrison\n\nJames Douglas \"Jim\" Morrison (December 8, 1943 – July 3, 1971) was an American singer, songwriter and poet, best remembered as the lead vocalist of the rock band The Doors. Due to his poetic lyrics, distinctive voice, wild personality, performances, and the dramatic circumstances surrounding his life and early death, Morrison is regarded by music critics and fans as one of the most iconic and influential frontmen in rock music history. Since his death, his fame has endured as one of popular culture's most rebellious and oft-displayed icons, representing the generation gap and youth counterculture.\n\nMorrison co-founded the Doors during the summer of 1965 in Venice, California. The band spent two years in obscurity until shooting to prominence with their #1 single in the United States, \"Light My Fire\", taken from their self-titled debut album. Morrison recorded a total of six studio albums with the Doors, all of which sold well and received critical acclaim. Though the Doors recorded two more albums after Morrison died, his death severely affected the band's fortunes, and they split up in 1973. In 1993, Jim Morrison, as a member of the Doors, was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.\n\nMorrison was also well known for improvising spoken word poetry passages while the band played live. Morrison was ranked #47 on \"Rolling Stone\"s list of the \"100 Greatest Singers of All Time\", and number 22 on \"Classic Rock\" magazine's \"50 Greatest Singers in Rock.\" Ray Manzarek, who co-founded the Doors with him, said Morrison \"embodied hippie counterculture rebellion.\"\n\nMorrison developed an alcohol dependency during the 1960s, which at times affected his performances on stage. He died unexpectedly at the age of 27 in Paris. As no autopsy was performed, the cause of Morrison's death remains unknown.\n\nJames Douglas Morrison was born on December 8, 1943 in Melbourne, Florida, the son of Clara Virginia (née Clarke) and Rear Admiral George Stephen Morrison, USN, who commanded United States naval forces during the Gulf of Tonkin incident, which provided the pretext for the US involvement in the Vietnam War in 1965. Morrison had a younger sister, Anne Robin, who was born in 1947 in Albuquerque, New Mexico; and a younger brother, Andrew Lee Morrison, who was born in 1948 in Los Altos, California.\n\nHis ancestors were Scottish, Irish, and English. In 1947, when he was four years old, Morrison allegedly witnessed a car accident in the desert, during which a truck overturned and some Native Americans were lying injured at the side of the road. He referred to this incident in the Doors' song \"Peace Frog\" on their 1970 album \"Morrison Hotel,\" as well as in the spoken word performances \"Dawn's Highway\" and \"Ghost Song\" on the posthumous 1978 album \"An American Prayer\". Morrison believed this incident to be the most formative event of his life, and made repeated references to it in the imagery in his songs, poems, and interviews.\n\nHis family does not recall this incident happening in the way he told it. According to the Morrison biography \"No One Here Gets Out Alive\", Morrison's family did drive past a car accident on an Indian reservation when he was a child, and he was very upset by it. The book \"The Doors\", written by the surviving members of the Doors, explains how different Morrison's account of the incident was from that of his father. This book quotes his father as saying, \"We went by several Indians. It did make an impression on him [the young James]. He always thought about that crying Indian.\" This is contrasted sharply with Morrison's tale of \"Indians scattered all over the highway, bleeding to death.\" In the same book, his sister is quoted as saying, \"He enjoyed telling that story and exaggerating it. He said he saw a dead Indian by the side of the road, and I don't even know if that's true.\"\n\nRaised a military brat, Morrison spent part of his childhood in San Diego, completed third grade at Fairfax County Elementary School Fairfax County, Virginia, and attended Charles H. Flato Elementary School in Kingsville, Texas, while his father was stationed at NAS Kingsville in 1952. He continued at St. John's Methodist School in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and then Longfellow School Sixth Grade Graduation Program from San Diego, California.\n\nIn 1957, Morrison attended Alameda High School in Alameda, California, for his freshman and first semester of his sophomore year. He finished high school in Alexandria, Virginia, graduating from George Washington High School (now George Washington Middle School) in June 1961. Cass Elliot also attended the school several years earlier.\n\nA voracious reader from an early age, Morrison was particularly inspired by the writings of several philosophers and poets. He was influenced by Friedrich Nietzsche, whose views on aesthetics, morality, and the Apollonian and Dionysian duality would appear in his conversation, poetry and songs. Some of his formative influences were Plutarch's \"Parallel Lives\" and the works of the French Symbolist poet Arthur Rimbaud, whose style would later influence the form of Morrison's short prose poems. He was also influenced by William S. Burroughs, Jack Kerouac, Allen Ginsberg, Louis Ferdinand Celine, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Charles Baudelaire, Molière, Franz Kafka, Albert Camus, Honoré de Balzac and Jean Cocteau, along with most of the French existentialist philosophers.\n\nHis senior year English teacher said, \"Jim read as much and probably more than any student in class, but everything he read was so offbeat I had another teacher (who was going to the Library of Congress) check to see if the books Jim was reporting on actually existed. I suspected he was making them up, as they were English books on sixteenth- and seventeenth-century demonology. I'd never heard of them, but they existed, and I'm convinced from the paper he wrote that he read them, and the Library of Congress would've been the only source.\"\n\nMorrison went to live with his paternal grandparents in Clearwater, Florida, where he attended classes at St. Petersburg College (then known as a junior college). In 1962, he transferred to Florida State University (FSU) in Tallahassee, where he appeared in a school recruitment film. While attending Florida State University, Morrison was arrested for a prank following a home football game.\n\nIn January 1964, Morrison moved to Los Angeles to attend the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). Shortly thereafter on August 2, 1964, Morrison's father, George Stephen Morrison, commanded a carrier division of the United States fleet during the Gulf of Tonkin Incident, which resulted in the United States' rapid escalation of the Vietnam War. At UCLA, Morrison enrolled in Jack Hirschman's class on Antonin Artaud in the Comparative Literature program within the UCLA English Department. Artaud's brand of surrealist theatre had a profound impact on Morrison's dark poetic sensibility of cinematic theatricality. Morrison completed his undergraduate degree at UCLA's film school within the Theater Arts department of the College of Fine Arts in 1965. At the time of the graduation ceremony, he went to Venice, and the university mailed his diploma to his mother at Coronado. He made several short films while attending UCLA. \"First Love\", the first of these films, made with Morrison's classmate and roommate Max Schwartz, was released to the public when it appeared in a documentary about the film \"Obscura\". During these years, while living in Venice Beach, he befriended writers at the \"Los Angeles Free Press\", for which he advocated until his death in 1971. He conducted a lengthy and in-depth interview with Bob Chorush and Andy Kent, both working for the Free Press at the time (approximately December 6–8, 1970), and was planning on visiting the headquarters of the busy newspaper shortly before leaving for Paris.\n\nIn the summer of 1965, after graduating with a bachelor's degree from the UCLA film school, Morrison led a bohemian lifestyle in Venice Beach. Living on the rooftop of a building inhabited by his old UCLA cinematography friend, Dennis Jacobs, he wrote the lyrics of many of the early songs the Doors would later perform live and record on albums, the most notable being \"Moonlight Drive\" and \"Hello, I Love You.\" According to Manzarek, he lived on canned beans and LSD for several months. Morrison and fellow UCLA student Ray Manzarek were the first two members of the Doors, forming the group during that summer. They had met months earlier as cinematography students. The story claims that Manzarek was lying on the beach at Venice one day, where he accidentally encountered Morrison. He was impressed with Morrison's poetic lyrics, claiming that they were \"rock group\" material. Subsequently, guitarist Robby Krieger and drummer John Densmore joined. Krieger auditioned at Densmore's recommendation and was then added to the lineup. All three musicians shared a common interest in the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi's meditation practices at the time, attending scheduled classes, but Morrison was not involved in these series of classes.\n\nThe Doors took their name from the title of Aldous Huxley's book \"The Doors of Perception\" (a reference to the unlocking of doors of perception through psychedelic drug use). Huxley's own title was a quotation from William Blake's \"The Marriage of Heaven and Hell\", in which Blake wrote: \"If the doors of perception were cleansed everything would appear to man as it is, infinite.\" Although Morrison was known as the lyricist of the group, Krieger also made significant lyrical contributions, writing or co-writing some of the group's biggest hits, including \"Light My Fire,\" \"Love Me Two Times,\" \"Love Her Madly\" and \"Touch Me.\" On the other hand, Morrison, who did not write most songs using an instrument, would come up with vocal melodies for his own lyrics, with the other band members contributing chords and rhythm. Morrison did not play an instrument live (except for maracas and tambourine for most shows, and harmonica on a few occasions) or in the studio (excluding maracas, tambourine, handclaps, and whistling). However, he did play the grand piano on \"Orange County Suite\" and a Moog synthesizer on \"Strange Days.\"\n\nIn June 1966, Morrison and the Doors were the opening act at the Whisky a Go Go in the last week of the residency of Van Morrison's band Them. Van's influence on Jim's developing stage performance was later noted by Brian Hinton in his book \"Celtic Crossroads: The Art of Van Morrison\": \"Jim Morrison learned quickly from his near namesake's stagecraft, his apparent recklessness, his air of subdued menace, the way he would improvise poetry to a rock beat, even his habit of crouching down by the bass drum during instrumental breaks.\" On the final night, the two Morrisons and their two bands jammed together on \"Gloria.\" In November 1966, Morrison and the Doors produced a promotional film for \"Break on Through (To the Other Side)\", which was their first single release. The film featured the four members of the group playing the song on a darkened set with alternating views and close-ups of the performers while Morrison lip-synched the lyrics. Morrison and the Doors continued to make short music films, including \"The Unknown Soldier\", \"Moonlight Drive\" and \"People Are Strange\".\nThe Doors achieved national recognition after signing with Elektra Records in 1967. The single \"Light My Fire\" spent three weeks at number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart in July/August 1967. This was a far cry from the Doors playing warm up for Simon and Garfunkel and playing at a high school as they did in Connecticut that same year. Later, the Doors appeared on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\", a popular Sunday night variety series that had introduced the Beatles and Elvis Presley to the United States. Ed Sullivan requested two songs from the Doors for the show, \"People Are Strange\" and \"Light My Fire\". Sullivan's censors insisted that the Doors change the lyrics of the song \"Light My Fire\" from \"Girl we couldn't get much higher\" to \"Girl we couldn't get much better\" for the television viewers; this was reportedly due to what was perceived as a reference to drugs in the original lyrics. After giving assurances of compliance to the producer in the dressing room, the band agreed and proceeded to sing the song with the original lyrics. Sullivan was not happy and he refused to shake hands with Morrison or any other band member after their performance. Sullivan had a show producer tell the band that they would never appear on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" again. Morrison reportedly said to the producer, in a defiant tone, \"Hey man. We just \"did\" the Sullivan Show!\"\n\nBy the release of their second album, \"Strange Days\", the Doors had become one of the most popular rock bands in the United States. Their blend of blues and dark psychedelic rock included a number of original songs and distinctive cover versions, such as their rendition of \"Alabama Song\", from Bertolt Brecht and Kurt Weill's opera, \"Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny\". The band also performed a number of extended concept works, including the songs \"The End\", \"When the Music's Over\" and \"Celebration of the Lizard\". In 1966, photographer Joel Brodsky took a series of black-and-white photos of Morrison, in a photo shoot known as \"The Young Lion\" photo session. These photographs are considered among the most iconic images of Jim Morrison and are frequently used as covers for compilation albums, books, and other memorabilia of the Doors and Morrison. In late 1967 at a concert in New Haven, Connecticut, he was arrested on stage, an incident that further added to his mystique and emphasized his rebellious image.\n\nIn 1968, the Doors released their third studio album, \"Waiting for the Sun\". The band performed on July 5 at the Hollywood Bowl; this performance became famous with the DVD: \"Live at the Hollywood Bowl\". It's also this year that the band played, for the first time, in Europe. Their fourth album, \"The Soft Parade\", was released in 1969. It was the first album where the individual band members were given credit on the inner sleeve for the songs they had written. Previously, each song on their albums had been credited simply to \"The Doors\". On September 6 and 7, 1968, the Doors played four performances at the Roundhouse, London, England, with Jefferson Airplane which was filmed by Granada for a television documentary \"The Doors are Open\" directed by John Sheppard. Around this time, Morrison—who had long been a heavy drinker—started showing up for recording sessions visibly inebriated. He was also frequently late for live performances.\n\nBy early 1969, the formerly svelte singer had gained weight, grown a beard and mustache, and begun dressing more casually — abandoning the leather pants and concho belts for slacks, jeans, and T-shirts. During a concert of March 1, 1969, at the Dinner Key Auditorium in Miami, Morrison attempted to spark a riot in the audience, in part by screaming \"You wanna see my cock?\" and other obscenities. He failed, but six warrants for his arrest were issued by the Dade County Police department three days later for indecent exposure, among other things.<ref name=\"Burks_12/10/2010\"></ref> Consequently, many of the Doors' scheduled concerts were canceled. On September 20, 1970, Morrison was convicted of indecent exposure and profanity by a six-person jury in Miami after a trial that had 16 days of testimony. Morrison, who attended the October 30 sentencing \"in a wool jacket adorned with Indian designs\", silently listened as he was sentenced to six months in prison and had to pay a $500 fine. Morrison remained free on a $50,000 bond. At the sentencing, Judge Murray Goodman told Morrison that he was a \"person graced with a talent\" admired by many of his peers; Morrison remained free on $50,000 bond while the conviction was appealed. His death eight months later made the appeal a moot point.\n\nIn 2007 Florida Governor Charlie Crist suggested the possibility of a posthumous pardon for Morrison, which was announced as successful on December 9, 2010. Drummer John Densmore denied Morrison ever exposed himself on stage that night.\n\nFollowing \"The Soft Parade\", the Doors released \"Morrison Hotel\". After a lengthy break, the group reconvened in October 1970 to record what would become their final album with Morrison, titled \"L.A. Woman\". Shortly after the recording sessions for the album began, producer Paul A. Rothchild — who had overseen all of their previous recordings — left the project. Engineer Bruce Botnick took over as producer.\n\nMorrison began writing in earnest during his adolescence. At UCLA he studied the related fields of theater, film, and cinematography. He self-published two separate volumes of his poetry in 1969, titled \"The Lords / Notes on Vision\" and \"The New Creatures\". \"The Lords\" consists primarily of brief descriptions of places, people, events and Morrison's thoughts on cinema. \"The New Creatures\" verses are more poetic in structure, feel and appearance. These two books were later combined into a single volume titled \"The Lords and The New Creatures.\" These were the only writings published during Morrison's lifetime. Morrison befriended Beat poet Michael McClure, who wrote the afterword for Danny Sugerman's biography of Morrison, \"No One Here Gets Out Alive\". McClure and Morrison reportedly collaborated on a number of unmade film projects, including a film version of McClure's infamous play \"The Beard\", in which Morrison would have played Billy the Kid. After his death, a further two volumes of Morrison's poetry were published. The contents of the books were selected and arranged by Morrison's friend, photographer Frank Lisciandro, and girlfriend Pamela Courson's parents, who owned the rights to his poetry.\n\n\"The Lost Writings of Jim Morrison\" Volume I is titled \"Wilderness\", and, upon its release in 1988, became an instant \"New York Times\" Bestseller. Volume II, \"The American Night\", released in 1990, was also a success. Morrison recorded his own poetry in a professional sound studio on two separate occasions. The first was in March 1969 in Los Angeles and the second was on December 8, 1970. The latter recording session was attended by Morrison's personal friends and included a variety of sketch pieces. Some of the segments from the 1969 session were issued on the bootleg album \"The Lost Paris Tapes\" and were later used as part of the Doors' \"An American Prayer\" album, released in 1978. The album reached #54 on the music charts. Some poetry recorded from the December 1970 session remains unreleased to this day and is in the possession of the Courson family. Morrison's best-known but seldom seen cinematic endeavor is \"\", a project he started in 1969. Morrison financed the venture and formed his own production company in order to maintain complete control of the project. Paul Ferrara, Frank Lisciandro, and Babe Hill assisted with the project. Morrison played the main character, a hitchhiker turned killer/car thief. Morrison asked his friend, composer/pianist Fred Myrow, to select the soundtrack for the film.\n\nMorrison's early life was the semi-nomadic existence typical of military families. Jerry Hopkins recorded Morrison's brother, Andy, explaining that his parents had determined never to use physical corporal punishment such as spanking on their children. They instead instilled discipline and levied punishment by the military tradition known as \"dressing down\". This consisted of yelling at and berating the children until they were reduced to tears and acknowledged their failings. Once Morrison graduated from UCLA, he broke off most contact with his family. By the time Morrison's music ascended to the top of the charts (in 1967) he had not been in communication with his family for more than a year and falsely claimed that his parents and siblings were dead (or claiming, as it has been widely misreported, that he was an only child).\n\nThis misinformation was published as part of the materials distributed with the Doors' self-titled debut album. Admiral Morrison was not supportive of his son's career choice in music. One day, an acquaintance brought over a record thought to have Jim on the cover. The record was the Doors' self-titled debut. The young man played the record for Morrison's father and family. Upon hearing the record, Morrison's father wrote him a letter telling him \"to give up any idea of singing or any connection with a music group because of what I consider to be a complete lack of talent in this direction.\" In a letter to the Florida Probation and Parole Commission District Office dated October 2, 1970, Morrison's father acknowledged the breakdown in family communications as the result of an argument over his assessment of his son's musical talents. He said he could not blame his son for being reluctant to initiate contact and that he was proud of him nonetheless.\n\nMorrison spoke fondly of his Irish and Scottish ancestry and was inspired by Celtic mythology in his poetry and songs. Celtic Family Magazine revealed in its 2016 Spring Issue his Morrison clan was originally from the Isle of Lewis, Scotland, while his Irish side, the Clelland clan who married into the Morrison line were from County Down, Northern Ireland.\n\nMorrison was sought after by many as a photographer's model, confidant, romantic partner and sexual conquest. Throughout his life he had at least several serious, ongoing relationships, and many casual encounters. By many accounts, he could also be inconsistent with his partners, displaying what some recall as \"a dual personality\". Doors producer Paul Rothchild recalls, \"Jim really was two very distinct and different people. A Jekyll and Hyde. When he was sober, he was Jekyll, the most erudite, balanced, friendly kind of guy ... He was Mr. America. When he would start to drink, he'd be okay at first, then, suddenly, he would turn into a maniac. Turn into Hyde.\"\n\nMorrison spent the majority of his adult life in an open, and at times very charged and intense, relationship with Pamela Courson. They met while young, when both were attending college, and she encouraged him to develop his poetry. Through to the end, Courson saw Morrison as more than a rock star, but as \"a great poet\"; she constantly encouraged him and pushed him to write. Courson attended his concerts, and focused on supporting Jim's career. Like Morrison, she was described by many as fiery, determined and attractive, as someone who was tough despite appearing fragile. Ray Manzarek called Pamela \"Jim's other half\" and said, \"I never knew another person who could so complement his bizarreness.\" Courson was buried by her family as Pamela Susan Morrison, after Jim Morrison's death, despite the two having never been married. After Courson's death in 1974, and her parents petitioned the court for inheritance of Morrison's estate, the probate court in California decided that she and Morrison had once had what qualified as a common-law marriage, despite neither having applied for such status, and the common-law marriage not being recognized in California. Morrison's will at the time of his death named Courson as the sole heir. Morrison dedicated his published poetry books \"The Lords and New Creatures\" and the lost writings \"Wilderness\" to her. A number of writers have speculated that songs like \"Love Street,\" \"Orange County Suite\" and \"Queen of the Highway,\" among other songs, may have been written about her. Though the relationship was \"tumultuous\" much of the time, and both also had relationships with others, they always maintained a unique and ongoing connection with one another, right up until the end.\n\nOne of Morrison's early significant relationships was with Mary Werbelow, whom he met on the beach in Florida, when they were teenagers in 1962. In a 2005 interview with the \"St. Petersburg Times\" she said Morrison spoke to her before a photo shoot for the Doors' fourth album and told her the first three albums were about her.\n\nThroughout his career, Morrison had regular sexual and romantic encounters with fans (including \"groupies\") such as Pamela Des Barres, as well as ongoing affairs with other musicians, writers and photographers involved in the music business. These included Nico, the singer associated with the Velvet Underground, a one-night stand with singer Grace Slick of Jefferson Airplane, an on-again, off-again relationship with \"16 Magazine\"s Gloria Stavers, as well as an alleged alcohol-fueled encounter with Janis Joplin. David Crosby said many years later Morrison treated Joplin meanly at a party at the Calabasas, California, home of John Davidson while Davidson was out of town. She reportedly hit him over the head with a bottle of whiskey in retaliation during a fight in front of witnesses.\n\nFirst written about in \"No One Here Gets Out Alive\", \"Break On Through\", and later in her own memoir, \"Strange Days - My Life with and without Jim Morrison\", Morrison participated in a Celtic Pagan handfasting ceremony with rock critic Patricia Kennealy. The couple signed a handwritten document, and were declared wed by a Celtic High Priestess and High Priest on Midsummer's Night in 1970, but none of the necessary paperwork for a legal marriage was filed with the state. The couple had been friends, and then in a long distance relationship, since they met at a private interview for \"Jazz & Pop\" magazine, in January 1969. The handfasting ceremony is described in \"No One Here Gets Out Alive\" as a \"blending of souls on a karmic and cosmic plane.\" Morrison was also still seeing Pamela Courson when he was in Los Angeles, and later moved to Paris for the summer where Courson had acquired an apartment. In an interview in the book \"Rock Wives\", Kennealy says he turned \"really cold\" when she became pregnant, leading her to speculate that maybe he hadn't taken the wedding as seriously as he'd led her to believe. She also notes that his coldness and distance was during the trial in Miami, and that \"he was scared to death. They were really out to put him away. Jim was devastated that he wasn't getting any public support.\" As he did with so many people, Morrison could be cruel and cold and then turn warm and loving; he wrote in letters that he was planning on returning to her, to New York City, in the fall of '71. But Kennealy was skeptical. Morrison seemed to be falling apart. He was back with Pam, he was severely alcoholic, and like many she feared he was dying.\n\nAt the time of Morrison's death, there were multiple paternity actions pending against him, although no claims were made against his estate by any of the putative paternity claimants.\n\nMorrison joined Pamela Courson in Paris in March 1971, at an apartment she had rented for him at 17-19, in Le Marais, 4th arrondissement, Paris. In letters, he described going for long walks through the city, alone. During this time, he shaved his beard and lost some of the weight he had gained in the previous months. He died on July 3, 1971, at age 27. He was found by Courson in a bathtub at his apartment. The official cause of death was listed as heart failure, although no autopsy was performed, as it was not required by French law. His death was two years to the day after the death of the Rolling Stones guitarist Brian Jones, and approximately nine months after the deaths of Jimi Hendrix and Janis Joplin.\n\nAfter his death, a notebook of poetry written by Morrison was recovered, titled \"Paris Journal\"; amongst other personal details, it contains the allegorical foretelling of a man who will be left grieving and having to abandon his belongings, due to a police investigation into a death connected to the Chinese opium trade. \"Weeping, he left his pad on orders from police and furnishings hauled away, all records and mementos, and reporters calculating tears & curses for the press: \"I hope the Chinese junkies get you\" and they will for the [opium] poppy rules the world\".\n\nThe concluding stanzas of this poem convey disappointment for someone with whom he had had an intimate relationship and contain a further invocation of \"\"/the killer Hitchhiker, a common character in Morrison's body of work. \"This is my poem for you, Great flowing funky flower'd beast, Great perfumed wreck of hell...Someone new in your knickers & who would that be? You know, You know more, than you let on...Tell them you came & saw & look'd into my eyes & saw the shadow of the guard receding, Thoughts in time & out of season stood by the side of the road & levelled his thumb in the calm calculus of reason.\"\n\nIn 2013 another of Morrison's notebooks from Paris, found alongside the \"Paris Journal\" in the same box, known as the \"127 Fascination\" box, sold for $250,000 at auction. This box of personal belongings similarly contained a home movie of Pamela Courson dancing in an unspecified cemetery in Corsica, the only film so far recovered to have been filmed by Morrison. The box also housed a number of older notebooks and journals and may initially have included the \"Steno Pad\" and the falsely titled \"The Lost Paris Tapes\" bootleg, if they had not been separated from the primary collection and sold by Philippe Dalecky with this promotional title. Avid listeners familiar with the voices of Morrison's friends and colleagues later determined that, contrary to the story advanced by Dalecky that this was Morrison's final recording made with busking Parisian musicians, the \"Lost Paris Tapes\" are in fact, of \"Jomo & The Smoothies\"—Morrison, friend Michael McClure and producer Paul Rothchild loose jamming in Los Angeles, well before Paris 1971.\n\nMorrison was buried in Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris, one of the city's most visited tourist attractions, where Irish playwright Oscar Wilde, French cabaret singer Edith Piaf, and many other poets and artists are also buried. The grave had no official marker until French officials placed a shield over it, which was stolen in 1973. The grave was listed in the cemetery directory with Morrison's name incorrectly arranged as \"Douglas James Morrison.\"\n\nIn 1981, Croatian sculptor Mladen Mikulin voluntarily placed a bust of his own design and a new gravestone with Morrison's name at the grave to commemorate the tenth anniversary of Morrison's death; the bust was defaced through the years by cemetery vandals, and later stolen in 1988. Mikulin made another bust of Morrison in 1989, and a bronze portrait of him in 2001; neither piece is at the gravesite.\n\nIn the early-1990s, Morrison's father, George Stephen Morrison, after a consultation with E. Nicholas Genovese, Professor of Classics and Humanities, San Diego State University, placed a flat stone on the grave. The bronze plaque thereon bears the Greek inscription: ΚΑΤΑ ΤΟΝ ΔΑΙΜΟΝΑ ΕΑΥΤΟΥ, literally meaning \"according to his own daemon, i.e., guiding spirit,\" to convey the sentiment \"True to Himself.\"\n\nAs a naval family, the Morrisons moved frequently. As a consequence, Morrison's early education was routinely disrupted as he moved from school to school. Nonetheless, he was drawn to the study of literature, poetry, religion, philosophy and psychology, among other fields. Biographers have consistently pointed to a number of writers and philosophers who influenced Morrison's thinking and, perhaps, his behavior. While still in his adolescence, Morrison discovered the works of German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche. He was also drawn to the poetry of William Blake, Charles Baudelaire, and Arthur Rimbaud. Beat Generation writers such as Jack Kerouac and libertine writers such as the Marquis de Sade also had a strong influence on Morrison's outlook and manner of expression; Morrison was eager to experience the life described in Kerouac's \"On the Road\". He was similarly drawn to the work of French writer Louis-Ferdinand Céline. Céline's book, \"Voyage Au Bout de la Nuit\" (\"Journey to the End of the Night\") and Blake's \"Auguries of Innocence\" both echo through one of Morrison's early songs, \"End of the Night\".\n\nMorrison later met and befriended Michael McClure, a well-known Beat poet. McClure had enjoyed Morrison's lyrics but was even more impressed by his poetry and encouraged him to further develop his craft. Morrison's vision of performance was colored by the works of 20th-century French playwright Antonin Artaud (author of \"Theater and its Double\") and by Julian Beck's \"Living Theater\".\n\nOther works relating to religion, mysticism, ancient myth and symbolism were of lasting interest, particularly Joseph Campbell's \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\". James Frazer's \"The Golden Bough\" also became a source of inspiration and is reflected in the title and lyrics of the song \"Not to Touch the Earth.\" Morrison was particularly attracted to the myths and religions of Native American cultures.\n\nWhile he was still at school, his family moved to New Mexico where he got to see some of the places and artifacts important to the American Southwest Indigenous cultures. These interests appear to be the source of many references to creatures and places such as lizards, snakes, deserts and \"ancient lakes\" that appear in his songs and poetry. His interpretation and imagination of the practices of Native American ceremonial people (which, based on his readings, he referred to by the anthropological term \"shamans\") influenced his stage routine, notably in seeking trance states and vision through dancing to the point of exhaustion. In particular, Morrison's poem \"The Ghost Song\" was inspired by his readings about the Native American Ghost Dance.\n\nMorrison's vocal influences included Elvis Presley and Frank Sinatra, which is evident in his baritone crooning style on several of the Doors' songs. In the 1981 documentary \"The Doors: A Tribute to Jim Morrison\", producer Paul Rothchild relates his first impression of Morrison as being a \"Rock and Roll Bing Crosby\". Sugerman states that Morrison, as a teenager, was such a fan of Presley that he demanded silence when Elvis was on the radio. He states that Sinatra was Morrison's favorite singer. According to record producer David Anderle, Morrison considered Brian Wilson \"his favorite musician\" and the Beach Boys' 1967 LP \"Wild Honey\" \"one of his favorite albums. ... he really got into it.\"\n\nMorrison was, and continues to be, one of the most popular and influential singer-songwriters and iconic frontmen in rock history. To this day Morrison is widely regarded as the prototypical rock star: surly, sexy, scandalous, and mysterious. The leather pants he was fond of wearing both onstage and off have since become stereotyped as rock-star apparel. In 2011, a \"Rolling Stone\" readers' pick placed Jim Morrison in fifth place of the magazine's \"Best Lead Singers of All Time\". Iggy and the Stooges are said to have formed after lead singer Iggy Pop was inspired by Morrison while attending a Doors concert in Ann Arbor, Michigan. One of Pop's most popular songs, \"The Passenger\", is said to be based on one of Morrison's poems. After Morrison's death, Pop was considered as a replacement lead singer for the Doors; the surviving Doors gave him some of Morrison's belongings and hired him as a vocalist for a series of shows.\n\nWallace Fowlie, professor emeritus of French literature at Duke University, wrote \"Rimbaud and Jim Morrison\", subtitled \"The Rebel as Poet – A Memoir\". In this, he recounts his surprise at receiving a fan letter from Morrison who, in 1968, thanked him for his latest translation of Arthur Rimbaud's verse into English. \"I don't read French easily\", he wrote, \"...your book travels around with me.\" Fowlie went on to give lectures on numerous campuses comparing the lives, philosophies, and poetry of Morrison and Rimbaud. The book \"The Doors\" by the remaining Doors quotes Morrison's close friend Frank Lisciandro as saying that too many people took a remark of Morrison's that he was interested in revolt, disorder, and chaos \"to mean that he was an anarchist, a revolutionary, or, worse yet, a nihilist. Hardly anyone noticed that Jim was paraphrasing Rimbaud and the Surrealist poets.\"\n\nLayne Staley, the vocalist of Alice in Chains, Eddie Vedder, the vocalist of Pearl Jam, Scott Weiland, the vocalist of Stone Temple Pilots and Velvet Revolver, Julian Casablancas of the Strokes, James LaBrie of Dream Theater, as well as Scott Stapp of Creed and Ville Valo of H.I.M., have all said that Morrison was their biggest influence and inspiration. Stone Temple Pilots and Velvet Revolver have both covered \"Roadhouse Blues\" by the Doors. Weiland also filled in for Morrison to perform \"Break on Through (To The Other Side)\" with the rest of the Doors. Stapp filled in for Morrison for \"Light My Fire,\" \"Riders on the Storm\" and \"Roadhouse Blues\" on \"VH1 Storytellers\"; Travis Meeks, of Days of the New, also performed \"The End.\" Creed performed their version of \"Roadhouse Blues\" with Robby Krieger for the 1999 Woodstock Festival.\n\nMorrison's recital of his poem \"Bird of Prey\" can be heard throughout the song \"Sunset\" by Fatboy Slim. Rock band Bon Jovi featured Morrison's grave in their \"I'll Sleep When I'm Dead\" video clip. The band Radiohead mentions Jim Morrison in their song \"Anyone Can Play Guitar\", stating \"I wanna be wanna be wanna be Jim Morrison\". Alice Cooper in the liner notes of the album \"Killer\" stated that the song \"Desperado\" is about Jim Morrison. The leather trousers of U2's lead singer Bono's \"The Fly\" persona for the \"Achtung Baby\" era and subsequent Zoo TV Tour is attributed to Jim Morrison. In 2012 electronic music producer Skrillex released \"Breakn' a Sweat\" which contained vocals from an interview with Jim Morrison.\n\nMorrison was also referenced in the Lana Del Rey song \"Gods & Monsters\" in the line \"living like Jim Morrison.\"\n\nIn June 2013, a fossil analysis discovered a large lizard in Myanmar. The extinct reptile was given the moniker \"Barbaturex morrisoni\" in honor of Morrison. \"This is a king lizard, and he was the lizard king, so it just fit,\" said Jason Head, a paleontologist at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50310315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50310315", "title": "Jose Camacho Tenorio", "text": "Jose Camacho Tenorio\n\nJose \"Joeten\" Camacho Tenorio (July 6, 1923 – November 5, 1993) was a Chamorro businessman who founded over 30 different companies during his lifetime, including Joeten Enterprises.\n\nBorn to Juan Pangelinan Tenorio and Francisca Taimanao Camacho Tenorio, who both had died by the time Jose reached the age of twelve. Jose and his siblings were raised from that point by his oldest brother, who was 21 at the time.\n\nJoeten graduated from Japanese elementary school at the age of 13 and then attended a night school. Later, the University of Guam awarded Joeten with an honorary doctorate.\n\nIn 1946 Joeten married Soledad Duenas Takai \"Daidai\". They would have six children. In 1947, Jose started a beer and soft drinks business using $200 of personal savings. Two years later, Joeten and his wife Soledad sold their house to convert a dentist office into a grocery store which would continue to expand and become the conglomerate Joeten Enterprises.\n\nIn the years 1950 and 1951, Joeten and his wife moved to Guam in response to a job offer from the Island Trading Group. During this time, Joeten gained more knowledge of operating a business enterprise and became an American citizen.\n\nIn 1977 he ran for Governor of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands but lost to Carlos S. Camacho by 129 votes. During this time he also underwent open-heart surgery.\n\nJoeten died from internal bleeding while on a Continental Micronesia flight from Honolulu to Guam in November 1993. At this time he had 29 grandchildren.\n"}
{"id": "55921424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55921424", "title": "Krishna Kumari (princess)", "text": "Krishna Kumari (princess)\n\nKrishna Kumari (1794 – 21 July 1810) was a Rajput princess of the Udaipur State in the Mewar region of India. A daughter of Bhim Singh of Udaipur, she was engaged to Bhim Singh of Jodhpur at a young age. After the premature death of the groom-to-be in 1803, she was sought by multiple suitors, including Man Singh of Jodhpur and Jagat Singh of Jaipur.\n\nThe rivalry between her suitors ultimately escalated into a war involving the Rajput rulers of Udaipur, Jodhpur, and Jaipur; as well as Daulat Rao Sindhia of Gwalior, Yashwant Rao Holkar of Indore and Amir Khan Pindari of Tonk. In 1810, when Amir Khan Pindari attacked Udaipur on behalf of Man Singh, 16-year old Krishna agreed to be poisoned to death, to put an end to the war.\n\nKrishna Kumari was one of the several daughters of Bhim Singh, the Rajput ruler of the Udaipur princely state in the Mewar region. In 1799, at the age of 5, she was engaged to Bhim Singh, the Rajput ruler of the Jodhpur State in the Marwar region. However, the groom-to-be died prematurely in 1803.\n\nAfter the death of Bhim Singh of Jodhpur, his cousin Man Singh succeeded him on the throne. Man Singh revoked an appanage that his predecessor had granted to Kishan Singh, a relative of Krishna's father Bhim Singh. This annoyed Krishna's father, Bhim Singh of Udaipur.\n\nBhim Singh arranged Krishna's engagement with Jagat Singh, the Rajput ruler of the Jaipur State. Jagat Singh had become an adversary of Man Singh by supporting a rival claim to the throne of Jodhpur. Man Singh argued that Krishna was engaged to the ruler of Jodhpur, and therefore, should be married to him instead of Jagat Singh. Krishna's father rejected Man Singh's demand, and sent representatives to Jaipur to finalize her engagement with Jagat Singh.\n\nMan Singh then threatened to invade Mewar, and enlisted the support of Daulat Rao Sindhia, the Maratha ruler of the Gwalior State, by paying a tribute. With help of Sindhia's commander Sarjerao Ghatge, Man Singh threatened Amar Singh of Shahpura, a feudatory of Bhim Singh of Udaipur. At this time Bhim Singh's representatives were passing through Shahpura on their way to Jaipur, and Man Singh forced Amar Singh to send them back to Udaipur.\n\nSubsequently, Sindhia personally intervened in the dispute, hoping to play an active role in the Rajput politics. He advised Krishna's father Bhim Singh to give one of his daughters in marriage to Man Singh of Jodhpur and another to Jagat Singh of Jaipur. Sindhia also recommended that if the two suitors rejected this proposal, the dispute be resolved by involving the neighbouring rulers as arbitrators. By this time, Jagat Singh's forces had reached Udaipur, which emboldened Bhim Singh into rejecting Sindhia's proposal. Sindhia then invaded the Udaipur kingdom, and forced Bhim Singh into signing a treaty at Nathdwara on 7 May 1806.\n\nAt one point, Sindhia himself offered to marry Krishna, but the Rajputs disapproved of this proposal. Baiza Bai, one of Sindhia's wives, also opposed the proposal, arguing that the Rajputs would not agree to such a marriage without warfare. Sindhia later withdrew his proposal to marry Krishna. Yashwant Rao Holkar, the Maratha ruler of the Indore State and a rival of Sindhia, also decided to take advantage of this conflict to demand tributes from the Rajputs. This irked Krishna's father Bhim Singh, who refused to pay tribute to either of the Maratha rulers. Sindhia retreated from the Udaipur kingdom, fearing hostility from the Rajputs as well as Holkar.\n\nAfter Sindhia's retreat, Holkar offered to arbitrate the dispute. He advised that Krishna Kumari be married to someone other than Man Singh and Jagat Singh, but with the consent of these two rulers; in addition, Jagat Singh would marry a sister of Man Singh. However, Jagat Singh rejected this proposal, and insisted on marrying Krishna. Subsequently, he signed an agreement with Holkar, who promised not to object to his marriage to Krishna, and to support Jaipur against a possible attack from Sindhia. Later, Jagat Singh also won Sindhia over to his side by promising him 1 million rupees. In addition, he enlisted the support of Surat Singh of Bikaner State and Amir Khan Pindari of Tonk State. Man Singh tried to win over Holkar to his side, but Holkar decided to remain neutral.\n\nThe dispute over Krishna was being closely monitored by the East India Company. The Company's Accountant General Henry St George Tucker, in a March 1806 letter to George Robinson, had mentioned that the Rajput kings were about to \"take up arms for the purpose of deciding their claims to the fair hand of the Princess\". Tucker expressed the possibility of a conflict involving the Rajput states, as well as Sindhia and Holkar, which would \"make a very desirable diversion\" in the favour of the Company.\n\nAs predicted by Tucker, the conflict between Krishna's suitors ultimately escalated into a full-fledged war. Jagat Singh marched against Jodhpur, and declared Bhim Singh's posthumous son Dhonkal Singh as the rightful ruler of Jodhpur. He also convinced Holkar to remain neutral by offering a payment of 1 million rupees. Although Jagat Singh suffered some initial reverses, his army ultimately besieged Jodhpur in May 1807. Man Singh escaped to Jalore, and unsuccessfully tried to form an alliance with the East India Company. Soon after this, Jagat Singh's army was forced to leave Jodhpur because of scarcity of water, and because of defections by several Rathores, Sarjerao Ghatge and Amir Khan.\n\nIn January 1808, Jagat Singh's pro-Holkar minister Ratan Lal tried to secure Holkar's support by offering a tribute of 1 million rupees, but Holkar declined the offer. Under his influence, Jagat Singh refused to pay a tribute to Sindhia, which prompted Sindhia to invade Jaipur and extract a heavy tribute. Sindhia also attacked Udaipur, defeated the forces of Krishna's father Bhim Singh.\n\nAmir Khan, who had defected to Man Singh's side for money, helped consolidated Man Singh's control over the throne of Jodhpur. In April 1810, Amir Khan demanded tribute from Udaipur and Jaipur, and invaded Udaipur. At that time, the prominent nobles of Udaipur were fighting among themselves for political power, and therefore, Udaipur forces could not put up a strong defence. Amir Khan devastated and burned the villages of the Udaipur kingdom. He then sent a message to Krishna's father Bhim Singh demanding that Krishna be either married to Man Singh or killed, because as long as she lived, there would be no peace. He threatened to destroy Bhim Singh's kingdom if this demand was not met.\n\nAccording to a contemporary British account published in the \"Asiatic Annual Register for 1810-11\", Amir Khan came up with the suggestion to poison Krishna \"as the only mode of at once settling all their pretensions, and terminating the ten years' war, which this second Helen had excited.\" The Sisodia nobles of Mewar, who considered the Rathore clan of Jodhpur inferior in status, also advised Bhim Singh that it was better to let Krishna die than suffer the supposed dishnour of having her married into the Rathore family.\n\nBhim Singh determined that his daughter's death was necessary for establishing peace, and Krishna agreed to die by poisoning. She died of poisoning on 21 July 1810. The \"Asiatic Annual Register\" report states that her aunt administered poison to her, with the knowledge of her father. The report describes her death as \"the most important political event which has lately occurred in Hindustan\".\n\nAfter Krishna's death, Amir Khan, the Chundawat chiefs and the Marathas fought among themselves for control of Mewar. The Udaipur State ultimately sought help from the British, and agreed to become a British protectorate in January 1818. The other parties involved in the conflict also accepted British suzerainty within a decade of her death.\n\nThe circumstances of the princess's death were introduced to the British public by Major-General Sir John Malcolm in ‘A Memoir of Central India', 1824.. He states that his account was drawn from several persons who were on the spot at the time and he gives the princess's name as Kishen Kower. \n\nAnother source of information in Britain was Muhammad Amir Khan, an active participant as noted above, whose memoirs were translated from the Persian and published in 1832. He gives her name as Kishen Koomaree (probably the correct historical pronunciation of Kumari). Amir Khan's account of her final moments states that: 'Accordingly having bathed, and dressed herself in new and gay attire, she drank off the poison, and so gave up her precious life, earning the perpetual praise, and admiration of mankind.'\n\nFrom these accounts it became common knowledge in Britain. The Asiatic Journal, June 1835, in an article on Oodipore refers to the 'well-known fate of the beautiful Kishen Kower, or Krishna Komari.'\n\nThe impact of this event on British culture is discussed by Máire ni Fhlathúin in her \"British India and Victorian Literary Culture\"\n\nThe first recorded poem on the subject, entitled \"Kishen Kower\", is by Mrs. G. G. Richardson (Catherine Eliza Richardson) in her \"Poems\" of 1828. This is a fragment and only deals with Kishen Kower's death and what followed.\n\nLetitia Elizabeth Landon tells the story within \"The Zenana\", again under the heading \"Kishen Kower\" (and giving apologises for the anachronism, as the main action of this long poem is set much earlier). She introduces the princess's taking of the poison with the lines:\n\nMáire ni Fhlathúin also includes versions by Anna Maria Mowatt (\"Kishen Kowur\"), Henry Thoby Prinsep (\"Kishen Koomaree, Princess of Oodeepoor\") and Lieut.-Col. G. Poulett Cameron (in his The Romance of Military Life, 1853, \"Kishen Kower\").\n\nTwo other prose versions can be found. The first in the Court Journal for 1835 (as \"Kishen Kower\", anonymously). In this version, the princess survives two cups of the poison but is then stabbed to death by a kinsman. A second, more extended version of the story, appeared in The East India Sketch-book, 1836 (Elizabeth Bruce Elton Smith), entitled \"The Three Moons\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11865036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11865036", "title": "Leonard Shockley", "text": "Leonard Shockley\n\nLeonard Melvin Shockley (1941/1942 – April 10, 1959) was a juvenile executed in the United States on April 10, 1959, for a murder committed when he was under the age of 18. Shockley, a black male, was executed in Maryland in a gas chamber for the murder of shopkeeper Sarah Hearne on January 16, 1958. Shockley (then 16) was involved in the robbery of a small shop in Dorchester County, Maryland. He was accompanied by his older brother, 23-year-old Harold Edward Shockley. Hearne was found stabbed several times in the back and breast, and her throat had been cut. The young culprits were identified by an eye witness. Leonard was 17 years of age at the time of his execution making him the last instance of a juvenile being executed in America. His brother received life in prison but was eventually released.\n\n\n\n "}
{"id": "44675661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44675661", "title": "List of unidentified decedents in the United States", "text": "List of unidentified decedents in the United States\n\nAn unidentified decedent, or UID, is a deceased person whose legal identity is unable to be determined by law enforcement. Although the majority of individuals are identified soon after their bodies are recovered, it is not uncommon for bodies to remain unidentified for years or even decades. There are approximately 40,000 unidentified decedents in the United States at any given time.\n\nA deceased body can be identified in several different ways. Most commonly, a relative of the deceased identifies the body by sight. However, if a body is decomposed, skeletal, or unrecognizable due to severe facial trauma at the time of recovery, other methods must be used. Some common modes of identification include fingerprint comparison, dental records, chest x-rays and comparing the deceased's DNA to the DNA sequence of relatives such as a parent or sibling. Since identification of a deceased individual is a legal matter, officials require a high degree of certainty in order to make a formal identification.\n\nIn 1976, after the passing of Grand Canyon photographer Emery Kolb, the remains of a John Doe were found in his garage. Although there was speculation that this was the remains of Glen Hyde who had vanished with his wife in 1928 Glen and Bessie Hyde this was not so.<br>The deceased died June 4, 1933 at Shoshone Point Grand Canyon. Suicide was determined to be the cause of death.\n\nOn August 6, 1992, the mummified body of a female aged sixteen to eighteen was found in Apache Junction, Pinal County, Arizona. The victim was wearing a white T-shirt with soccer-related designs, whitish undergarments, cutoff denim shorts and a gold ring on her left hand ring finger. The female also had a ponytail-holder and a penny. A round piece of paper was also found, which had a green illustration of Abraham Lincoln and the Lincoln Memorial on respective sides. A token for the Phoenix Transit System was also found with the remains. She was approximately five feet to five feet two inches tall (152–157 cm) and had an indeterminable weight. She likely died three to ten weeks before, due to an unknown cause. The female's race was difficult to assess, but her hair indicated she was either Native American or Hispanic. She had a visible overbite with no trace of dental care on her teeth.\n\nOn October 4, 1997, a Hispanic woman was discovered on a roadside days after her death. She died from exposure to the elements. The woman was estimated to be between the ages of 20 to 27 and had a scar on her hand, acne scars and a healed tear to her earlobe. She had brown eyes and hair measured at 9.5 inches. Her ears were also pierced. She carried a small amount of Mexican currency. The DNA Doe Project is working on her case to identify potential family members of the decedent.\n\nA Hispanic or Native American female—most likely aged between 15 and 19—whose body was discovered in Tempe, Arizona in April 2002. She had died of acute cocaine intoxication approximately 24 hours before the discovery of her body.\n\nIn Malvern, Hot Spring County, Arkansas, a man died on October 20, 1984, two days after he was recovered from a vehicle that was submerged in water. The victim, as described by the passenger of the car, was a man from New Haven, Connecticut that was hitchhiking to California. The subject had been driving the passenger's car, as he was less drowsy than his companion, who had decided to sleep instead of drive. The unidentified man was of Caucasian descent, had brown hair and brown eyes and also wore a beard. He was twenty-five to thirty-five years old and was tall at a weight of . He wore tan pants, a sweater, a second top, multicolored socks and boots.\n\nThe partial skeleton of a woman was found on April 20, 1979 in West Haven, Connecticut. She was between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five when she died due to an unknown cause and nature, near a water processing plant. She had died between 1971 and 1978, a year to eight years before she was located. A black bra made from lace was the only article of clothing found, but she also had a folding alarm clock in her possession. The woman had fillings, signs of a dental disease and congenitally missing wisdom teeth. She also may have had some back problems, as she might have been missing a vertebra and could have had arthritis.\n\nA young, pregnant female discovered deceased in Bear, Delaware in 1967. She and her unborn child died due to septicemia.\n\nA young black female's remains were located in Orlando, Florida on January 21, 1977. She was between sixteen and eighteen years old when she died and was between five feet two to five feet eight inches tall (157–172 cm) and in a weight range between . She had some unique features, such as a slanted nose and previous injuries to her lower left leg. Found with her body were a pair of jeans, a yellow and brown top decorated with people and flowers, a blue flip-flop sandal, underwear, bra and a bracelet. The bracelet was silver and contained a blue stone.\n\nThe skeletal remains of a man were discovered in a wooded area of Alachua County, Florida on February 13, 1979, along Interstate 75. Near his remains, a noose was found, indicating he committed suicide. He was between 22 and 40 when he died. He stood about 5'6\" and was of muscular build, although his weight could not be estimated. He wore brown shoes, a gray button-down shirt, tan pants and a blue windbreaker. Isotope analysis of his bones indicated he was not native to Florida and had not spent a significant time in the state. He likely originated in the states north of Florida, as far as Indiana or Ohio. In 2018, the DNA Doe Project took on the task of identifying him at the request of law enforcement.\n\nA girl presumed to be between sixteen and nineteen years old was found drowned on March 5, 1979 in Bahia Honda Keys, Florida. She had died hours before due to unknown circumstances. The Jane Doe was believed to have been a smoker, as she had evidence of emphysema in her lungs. She was white with auburn hair that was curly and had brown eyes. She was approximately tall and weighed . Distinguishing features included a dental crown made from metal or porcelain, several fillings and evidence of root canals, a visible scar on her right pointer finger and she also had nails that had been well-maintained. She was wearing a black top and blue jeans on the day she died.\n\nOn October 10, 1980, the body of a young man was recovered from the Tampa Bay Area, underneath a bridge in St. Petersburg, Pinellas County, Florida. He died eighteen to twenty-four hours before he was discovered. He was tall and weighed at the age of fifteen to twenty-five. His hair was curly and his eyes were brown and he had not shaved for several days, as some facial hair was visible on his chin. He was wearing jeans, underwear and socks when he was found.\n\nOn the afternoon of August 3, 1982, a young woman was killed after being hit by a tractor trailer in Fort Lauderdale, Broward County, Florida. She was probably between fourteen and seventeen, although she may have been as young as twelve or as old as twenty-five. She had on jeans, a dark blue or brown top, and brown sandals; and she had dark blond or light brown hair that was curly in texture. She was of slender build, but with large breasts, at a height of and a weight of . She had possibly been hitchhiking around the southern United States, in Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana and Nevada; and may have spoken with a Cajun or Southern accent. It is possible that while in Nevada she used the name \"Donna,\" and that she had friends or family living in the area. She had thirty dollars and three business cards; one was linked to a police officer who provided information involving a runaway who stated the details about Nevada.\n\nThe body of a male, possibly using the name of \"Sebastian Pasqual,\" between the ages of fifteen to twenty-five (possibly as old as thirty) was found on May 12, 1986 in Immokalee, Collier County, Florida. The victim's race was difficult to assess, although he had a darker complexion, black hair and brown eyes. Examiners believe he was either of Hispanic or Indian descent. The victim was discovered about a day after he died by officers searching for a \"potential stabbing victim\". The male had a faint beard and was approximately five feet one to five feet two inches tall (155–157 cm) and weighed about . He wore a beige shirt with snap buttons, blue corduroy pants and a belt with a buckle depicting several rifle bullets. The John Doe carried five dollars and ninety-four cents. It is also believed he may have been a smoker.\n\nA white female was located behind a store on December 27, 1988 in Fort Lauderdale, Broward County, Florida. She had apparently died twelve hours before due to a cocaine overdose, presumed to be accidental. The female had not died at the location, however, as her body was likely dumped by another individual. She was estimated to be between the ages of twenty-one and forty and had curly auburn hair and brown or gray-hazel eyes. She was estimated to be at the height of tall and was about . The woman had a distinct tattoo of a blue butterfly on her lower abdomen. She was clothed, except for shoes, as she was wearing jeans and a pink and white sweater. A ring and a watch were noted as jewelry.\n\nA black male between fifteen and twenty-two years old was found in a train car on June 10, 1978 in Eatonton, Putnam County, Georgia. He died twenty-four to forty-eight hours prior to his discovery. He was between , but his height has not been disclosed. His hair was brownish-black and had possibly been dyed a reddish color. His nails were fairly long and he also had numerous scars on his chest, back and legs. The young man had cuts on his upper lip from a prior injury and also had eyelashes that had curled. The victim wore a black shirt, a blue belt with a buckle reading \"Jeans,\" bikini underwear and leather gray shoes. The decedent also had an extra rib on his left side.\n\nA young woman was found on a roadside after suffering severe injuries on May 24, 1985 in Newton, Baker County, Georgia. She died at a hospital on June 1 while in a coma. Her death was ruled to be an accident, as she likely fell from a vehicle, although she may have been thrown from one. There was no evidence of foul play at the scene. She was between fifteen and thirty-five years old, had blue eyes, brownish-blond hair with blond highlights. She was tanned and also had stretch marks on her buttocks and stomach. The victim was between five feet one to five feet four inches (155–163 cm) tall and weighed between , with a slim build and a light complexion. She wore a gray shirt, jeans with the name Allison Milles (which has not been verified to have been her name), white shoes and socks and a bandana with the colors of the American flag. A white pillow was also with the victim. She was exhumed in 2012 for DNA information.\n\nA girl, also known as Christmas Doe, of African heritage was approximately three years old when her remains were discovered on December 21, 1988 in Waycross, Ware County, Georgia. The body had been wrapped in a blanket, placed in a suitcase that was filled with cement and hidden inside a television console. She had died approximately one to two months previously and was badly decomposed, which resulted in an unsuccessful autopsy. She wore bows in her hair and a knitted shirt decorated with a horse. Authorities believe she was not native to Georgia.\n\nThe skeleton of a boy was discovered on February 26, 1999 in Decatur, DeKalb County, Georgia behind a cemetery at a nearby church. The child was of African heritage, between the ages of five and seven and was about three feet ten to four feet two inches (117–127 cm) tall at a weight between . The boy was clothed in a blue sweatshirt with a plaid design, red jeans and brown boots. The sweatshirt was noted to be significantly larger than the child's estimated size. The boots had been sold in the area in 1998. Testing on the bones indicated the boy was either from the surrounding area, or possibly that he had lived in the Atlanta area or in northern Florida. The cause of death is not known, and no suspects have been noted in the case; if foul play was involved, he appeared to be healthy when he died. It was previously speculated that the body belonged to D'Wan Sims, a child missing since 1994 from Michigan, before DNA testing in 2003 confirmed that Sims was not the John Doe. The case has also been featured on \"America's Most Wanted.\"\n\nThe remains of a white woman were found on April 19, 1981 in New Lenox, Will County, Illinois, along interstate 80. The female was between twenty-three and thirty-five years old and was presumed to have died about a year before she was found. Because she was badly decomposed, it was not possible to estimate her eye or hair color, along with her weight. It was possible to determine her height, which was likely around . No clothing or other items were located at the scene. The woman had suffered a fracture to her nose at some point during life, as evidence of such an injury was found when examining the skull. Her DNA has since been processed and nearly 250 people have been excluded from the case.\n\nA woman's body was found hanging on a telephone pole on February 2, 1982 in Bloomington, Illinois. She was between twenty-five and forty years old. Her hair was black, but was beginning to turn gray. She was tall and weighed around and was believed to be a smoker, as the autopsy suggested. She was seen alive before her death by people who stated she was not \"mentally stable.\"\n\nIn Chicago, Illinois, the skeleton of a female twelve to eighteen years old was located on April 28, 2005. She had been found near a railroad and had died several years earlier, possibly up to eight years prior. Because of the condition of her remains, her height, hair color and weight could not be estimated. The female's height was possible to be determined, however, and was subsequently placed between five feet and five feet five inches (152–165 cm). Some teeth were not found in the skull, but no evidence of dental work was noted. Examination of the bones indicated she was white with possible Asian ancestry. Five missing people have been excluded as possible identities of the subject.\n\nOn November 5, 1980, the partial skeleton of a young white female was found by a hunter in Rapides Parish, Louisiana. The victim, aged fifteen to nineteen, was approximately five feet to five feet five inches tall (152–165 cm); her weight could not be estimated. She had received dental care, as some fillings were found in the teeth of the skull. The skeleton of a dog was also found near the Jane Doe, but it is not possible to confirm if it was hers. A local man stated he had shot the dog but did not know of the victim's presence at the scene. A pair of gray, cotton wool socks were the only clothing found at the scene. Shoulder-length brown hair was also found near the body, which was presumed to be the victim's. Her remains may have been at the location from two months to two and a half years and one or both of her hands and limbs were never found. Her cause of death has never been determined.\n\nOn February 14, 1975, a teenage boy was found dead in Belle Chasse, Louisiana. He committed suicide by hanging himself with a bed sheet from a persimmon tree. He was about 16 or 17 years old and wore yellow and maroon shirt, blue pants, mismatched socks and no shoes. Leaning against the tree was a jar filled with his 4-page suicide note.\n\nA man aged 40 to 46 was discovered in a hotel room, not long after his death on May 2, 2014. He registered under the name \"Alfred Jake Fuller\" and provided a birth date of November 8, 1970. No records were found to match this information, leading investigators to speculate he used an alias. The man was estimated to be 5'10\" at a weight of 255 pounds. He wore a short goatee and had curly brown hair. A blue \"discoloration was on the left side of his face and a large nevus was in between his shoulders. His personal items included a prepaid Visa card and a \"fugitive recovery agent\" document. He was fully clothed and wore two pieces of jewelry on his neck.\n\nA young man was found on December 6, 1973 in Upper Marlboro, Prince George's County, Maryland. He was believed to have been between fifteen and twenty years old. The cause of his death could not be determined. He was five feet tall (152 cm) and weighed , which is short for a male his age. He had died within hours of his body being discovered in a wooded area, near a highway. The decedent may have been in a hospital for undisclosed reasons. He had brown hair and brown eyes as well as a thin mustache. He was found wearing a green sweatshirt, gray and white pants, white underwear, socks, boots and a brown belt. On his pants, the word \"shalom\" was written with poor penmanship, along with other words.\n\nA woman was found in an alley on June 16, 1987 in Baltimore, Maryland. She was seen previously being dropped off at a nearby residence. She was still alive when she was found, but died the next day at a hospital. The woman was between the ages of twenty-four and thirty and had a distinct tattoo of the name Curtis Lee accompanied by a turtle. She was five feet six inches tall (168 cm) and weighed with green eyes, freckles and short red hair. A scar from a needle was found on her neck and she also had another scar on her lower abdomen. The woman wore a ring, underwear and jeans with a belt. Also in her possession were a business card, an opened pack of cigarettes and a key on a key ring. Despite the suspicious circumstances, her cause of death has not been published.\n\nThe skeletonized skull and torso of a female of Sub-Saharan African heritage, possibly biracial, was discovered on August 8, 2004 in Plainville, Norfolk County, Massachusetts. The cause of her death was not apparent, but the decedent was wrapped in a blanket and buried in a shallow grave near a truck stop. She had been at that location anywhere from three to ten years prior. She stood between four feet nine and five feet three inches tall (145–160 cm) and was between twenty-five and thirty-five years old.\n\nAfter attending a party, a young woman was found unresponsive in Highland Park, Wayne County, Michigan on March 25, 1976. She had told others that her name was \"Bill\" and was a runaway from a group home in a different state, such as Ohio. Those she was with on the night of her death had known Bill for only a short time. She was approximately seventeen to twenty years old (although she may have been in a wider age range of fifteen to twenty-five) when she died and weighed at a height of . She had no detectable dental work on her teeth and wore a pair of pants with a pattern of black and white squares, maroon socks, a black or dark gray shirt and a black bra. When Bill was found unresponsive, she was taken to a hospital where she was pronounced dead. She had blueish-green eyes and shoulder length brown hair. Her body was exhumed in November 2014 to obtain DNA information.\n\nThe body of a man was found on February 7, 1985 in St. Paul, Ramsey County, Minnesota. The man was tall, and between twenty and forty years old when he died. His body was found in an abandoned building and clothed in multiple layers, indicating he was homeless. He had died weeks before, but was preserved due to the cold weather. He had brown hair as well as a beard and mustache. His eyes had decomposed to the point where their color could not be determined. His clothing included boots, a green shirt, brown gloves, a red scarf, an orange hat, a jacket with a camouflage design, a white jacket, a sweater and jeans. A duffel bag found with the corpse also had various items.\n\nA woman between thirty-seven and forty-two years old was struck by a vehicle and found on May 8, 1998 in Bay St. Louis, Hancock County, Mississippi. Initially, those who had hit the woman believed she was an animal, as it was late at night. She had suffered massive injuries across her body when she was struck. She was likely a transient, as she had tanned skin, unshaven legs and underarms, dirty nails and insect bites. Her nails were short, but she may have torn them instead of clipping, as they were uneven. The Jane Doe had no teeth and did not wear dentures when she was found. Her hair had been dyed several colors in the past and was a reddish color, but was naturally brown and wavy. She had variety of severe lung conditions as well as hydatid cysts, which occurred parasitically. Her eyes were gray and she also had freckles. The woman was five feet three to five feet five inches tall (160–165 cm) and weighed between . She was the mother of at least two children and had a cesarean section scar. She was drug-free, other than having seven caffeine pills found in her pocket. She wore a black sweatshirt, jeans and blue slippers. She had eaten french fries and pickles, as well as an unknown brownish liquid before her death, possibly from a fast-food restaurant or a diner. Permission was granted to exhume the woman's body in 2013, but her body was not at the site that was excavated.\n\nOn February 23, 1983, the decapitated body of a young African American girl, aged 8–11, was found in the basement of an abandoned house in St. Louis. She is also known as \"Hope\" and \"St. Louis Jane Doe.\" Her head has never been discovered, preventing identification via dental records.\n\nA black male aged twenty-five to thirty-five crashed a vehicle into a guardrail on interstate 80 on July 16, 1980 in Washoe County, Nevada as he was fleeing from police at high speed after being pursued as a potential bank robbery suspect. The man was pronounced dead as he entered an emergency room. The victim was five feet three inches to five feet four inches tall (160–162 cm) and weighed and had black hair, brown eyes and a scar on his abdomen that appeared to have been long since healed. The victim also wore a beard and mustache and had been circumcised. Four missing men have been excluded from the case.\n\nThe mummified body of a woman aged twenty-five to thirty-five was discovered inside a mine shaft near the town of Antelope in Las Vegas, Clark County, Nevada on September 27, 1986. The subject was white, five feet six inches tall (168 cm) and weighed between . She appeared to be a transient, as the walls in the shaft were lined with wood and appeared to be a makeshift shelter. She was discovered underneath a blanket, although she was naked. Several articles of clothing, a shirt, bra, a single sock and a pair of jeans as well as some personal items were found in or near the entrance, which included toothpaste, lip gloss and a pair of glasses. Examination of the body indicated she was a mother of at least one child and had had some dental work done. All of her adult teeth were intact. The cause of her death could not be determined.\n\nIn his hotel room on February 16, 1987, a man was found dead after a drug overdose, presumed to have been accidental, in Las Vegas, Clark County, Nevada. He was estimated to have been between twenty-five and thirty-five years old and had brown hair and blue eyes. His clothing included a purple shirt, jeans, white socks and a brown belt. He had given the name of \"Douglas Baker\" with his address residing in the state of Florida, which turned out to be both an alias and a false address. He was at a height of six feet four inches tall (193 cm). He had \"unusually long\" fingers, which may be a way to identify him in the future.\n\nOn January 23, 2008, police received a letter with coordinates to a location in Henderson, Clark County, Nevada. At the scene, a woman's skull was discovered along with a red patterned skirt. No other remains were found, which resulted in her weight and height being impossible to estimate. The woman had red hair and was between twenty-five and forty years old. She had been deceased for about six months.\n\nA woman was seen jumping into the path of an oncoming E train at 14th Street station in New York, New York County, New York on November 9, 1998. She was white, approximately 105 pounds and at the height of five feet. She was estimated to be between twenty-three and thirty-three years old. Her hair and eyes were both brown in color. Her clothing consisted of a tan shirt, jeans, a handbag and a backpack. After she was struck by the train, she was taken to a local hospital where she was pronounced dead.\n\nThe body of a female between the ages of fifteen and twenty-two was found in Lumberton, North Carolina on June 2, 1978. She was located at the edge of a field and had died weeks before her body was discovered, resulting in decomposition that made determining her eye color impossible. The girl was between five feet one to five feet three inches tall and weighed 100 to 120 pounds at the time of her death. She was white with light brown hair and wore a short-sleeved shirt with a hood and several different colored stripes, jeans and white open toed shoes. She had several fillings and also had some of her molars removed. Her fingernails and toenails had been painted a reddish color. No signs of violence were observed on the body.\n\nOn December 26, 1983, the partial skeletal remains of a young child were discovered by hunters in Northampton County, North Carolina, near Virginia. Due to animals and decomposition, many of the bones, the victim's hair and her clothing could not be recovered. The victim was a female, of African heritage, who was likely between four and six years old and may have been biracial. Although there was no apparent cause of death, she did have evidence of trauma to her face that occurred earlier in her life, possibly from abuse. Other details of the victim's life included that she could have suffered from ear infections and had damage to her nose prior to her death. The girl had received dental care, as some fillings were found in her teeth. She may have been deceased for as much as a year before she was found.\n\nA man was pronounced dead approximately four minutes after he fell from a cliff in Euclid, Cuyahoga County, Ohio on May 8, 1981. The exact cause of his death was determined to have been trauma to the chest. \nThe man had been seen alive by a trio of men that stated he had claimed to have traveled to the states of New York, New Jersey, Ohio and California, the latter state he had planned to travel to as soon as he could come upon the means to fund his transportation. \nThey also stated he had used cocaine and alcohol and bore the first name \"Joe.\" His hair and eyes were brown and he was five feet seven inches tall and weighed 146 pounds. His clothing consisted of a jacket, a sweatshirt, a wool sweater, a T-shirt, a hat, a belt, two pairs of socks and a pair of brown boots. His age was believed to be between twenty and thirty and he carried various personal items, including cologne and suntan oil.\n\nThe remains of a white woman between 35 and 60 were discovered in a wooded area near West Chester, Ohio on March 7, 2015. The body was skeletonized, making the process of determining weight and eye color impossible. The woman was about 5'6\" tall, had graying brown hair and unique and costly dental implants. She also had given birth in the past. She wore a white shirt with red and blue stripes and Faded Glory jeans. Some items were found nearby, including pairs of glasses and a denim bag, but may not have belonged to her.\n\nThe DNA Doe Project is currently processing her DNA to enter into a genealogy database in hopes to identify potential relatives to the decedent.\n\nBetween April 12 and October 13, 1946, the dismembered remains of a middle-aged female were found floating in the Willamette River in Oak Grove, south of Portland. Portions of the body were weighed down with curtain weights and bound with telephone wire. After the victim's head was recovered, it was found that she had no teeth and wore dentures.\n\nOn August 19, 1971, the skeleton of a female aged 14 to 25 was discovered in Cave Junction, Oregon. She was white with reddish-colored hair, which was frosted blond. She was between 5'2\" and 5'9\" at around 125 pounds. She had slightly protruding upper front teeth and had some fillings in her teeth. Some debris was noted to partially conceal the remains, which were found near the border with California. A hunting knife with deer blood was near the bones.\n\nThe decedent wore a checked pink and beige coat, a turtleneck shirt, 34B bra, blue and white underwear, Wrangler jeans and brown heeled shoes. She had several pieces of jewelry, one being a ring with the letters \"AL\" scratched into the mother of pear stone. She also carried 38 cents, the oldest dated 1970. \n\nShe was reported as wearing a New Zealand-made bra, and DNA links were established with New Zealand by the DNA-Doe-project. \n\nAdditionally, a map of northern California campgrounds was found in one of her pockets.\n\nA sixteen to thirty year old Asian man was found dead minutes after his death in a train station on July 22, 1994 in Philadelphia, Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head. The gun, found at the scene, was traced to a Wisconsin resident who stated the weapon was stolen nearly a decade before. A note was left at the scene, presumably written by the young man, which stated: \"With blood on his fingers and blood on his toes, he will have music wherever he goes. Don't fuck with the dragons.\" He had unique scars on various places on his head and neck as well as one on the back of his right knee and a birthmark on his chest. He wore a large shirt, white shoes, jeans, and white socks and underwear. His teeth were in good condition, showing little sign of dental care. He was five feet nine inches tall and weighed 168 pounds.\n\nThe body of a female between thirty-five and fifty-five years old was found in brush on the shoulder of route 33 in Bushkill Township, Northampton County, Pennsylvania on October 23, 1987. She was of Caucasian descent and had blue eyes and blond hair. The height was estimated to be between five feet and five feet two inches tall and her weight was between 155 and 165 pounds. The decedent wore a red shirt with a decal of a woman's face, a multicolored bracelet, jeans and thermal long underwear with a snowflake design. The woman is believed to have died due to a heart attack, yet her face suffered multiple lacerations from an undisclosed cause. She had died within 24 hours of being discovered.\n\nOn December 12, 2014, a boy discovered the embalmed head of an elderly woman while walking in a wooded area of Economy, Pennsylvania, approximately 15 miles northwest of Pittsburgh. Red rubber balls were in the eye sockets and no other body parts have been found. Police initially believed the head may have been taken from a funeral home, but now believe it may be linked to the illicit body parts trade.\n\nOn June 1, 1987, the body of a young woman between twenty and thirty years old was found in Knoxville, Knox County, Tennessee. The woman had brown hair and stood five feet five inches tall, weighing 100 to 120 pounds. A shotgun wound to the head was determined to be the cause of death, as she, along with the men who picked her up at a party, attempted a robbery, resulting in the woman being shot by the resident. She had apparently attempted to enter the house by breaking down the front door and then attempted to break through the screen behind it and was then killed. Other clues to identification include a tattoo of the letters \"BH\" on her arm as well as a silver bracelet. She also had a past pelvic surgery and a metal plate as well as a metal pin in her leg, possibly the result of a car accident. Other healed injuries include fractures and damage to her vertebrae. A scar was found on her abdomen, presumably from a cesarean section or a hysterectomy. By studying the teeth, examiners believe she was from either the southeastern United States or the New England area. An autopsy revealed her blood alcohol was 0.13% at the time of her death.\n\nA black female was found alive on the side of interstate 10 on September 30, 1976 in Houston, Harris County, Texas. She was taken to a hospital where she later died due to an undisclosed cause. The woman was tall and weighed and had black hair and brown eyes. She was clothed, wearing a green turtleneck sweater, a flannel shirt that was blue, a matching pair of jeans, pink underwear and brown shoes. Her ears were pierced, yet she wore only one earring. A ring with a turquoise stone accompanied with a second ring were among her jewelry. She was between twenty-five and thirty-five years old at the time of her death. The woman had seen a dentist before her death, as fillings were observed in her mouth.\n\nA young Hispanic man was found deceased near a highway on April 28, 1979 in Houston, Texas. He had died a short time before, but was not recognizable because of suffering severe wounds from an unknown nature. He was between fifteen and twenty years old and was between five feet four to five feet eight inches tall at a weight between 135 and 145 pounds. His hair was dark and he had a mustache. He wore an orange shirt, black pants and boots. He had scars on his hip and arm, from a burn and vaccination, respectively. A scar on his knee was also located.\n\nA man's body was found on November 15, 1982 in Jersey Village, Harris County, Texas. He was between thirty and forty at the time of his death when he was hit by a vehicle and subsequently succumbed to his injuries. He had six-inch brown hair, blue eyes and was five feet three inches tall at a weight of 116 pounds. He had received medical care when he was alive, as stitches were found under his right eye. The man also had scars on his chest, legs and hip. his clothing consisted of a green jacket, a shirt decorated with green and black squares, an undershirt, jeans, mismatched socks, brown gloves and cowboy boots.\n\nA Hispanic or possibly Asian female was struck and killed by a moving vehicle on 7500 Katy Freeway on March 1, 1983 in Houston, Harris County, Texas. She was between the ages of twenty-two and twenty-eight at the time of death. The woman was between five feet six and five feet seven inches tall and weighed 126 pounds. Her hair was black and her eyes were brown and she had crude tattoos on her body, of a cross and the letters \"Z\" or \"N,\" \"C\" and \"P\" accompanied with some dots. She wore a green shirt with matching socks, blue jeans, a pink bra and white shoes. In a tan purse she carried, a plaid shirt, several papers and a comb were found. It is possible that her first name was \"Mary.\"\n\nThe skeletal remains of a male between the ages of 27 and 38 were found on October 3, 1988 in Georgetown, Williamson County, Texas. He died between a month and a year before due to an unknown cause. He was white with possible Native American or Hispanic ancestry. His hair was dark brown with some gray visible. He had a healed injury to his nose and he was likely of muscular build, with a height between 5'2\" and 5'5\". Although there was no clothing on the body, a pair of underwear and a hat were nearby. He was given the nickname \"Rebel Ray\" after the wording on the hat.\n\nOn September 10, 1990, a skeleton of a female between fifteen and twenty-five of slight to medium build was discovered in Manvel, Brazoria County, Texas, between one and five years after the death occurred, underneath a tire and a pile of brush. Six rings and a pearl bracelet were found on the body, including a 1975 blue class ring that originated from Robert E. Lee High School. Another was a gold ring containing several clear stones. The class ring, which was upsized twice to a size 9, is not believed to have originally belonged to her, as it pre-dated the period when she would have graduated from high school. She was likely white, but likely had someone of African descent in her ancestry. Originally, she was believed to be Hispanic, but this has been since ruled out. She had a defect visible behind one of her knees, possibly from a tumor. Although Princess Blue's cause of death has not officially been determined, two of her ribs were fractured. Toxicology tests on the bones indicated no evidence of drug use. Dental records of the female are on file, which include details that she had multiple cavities that had not been attended to before her death. Princess Blue's DNA has also been processed for future comparison with missing persons.\n\nThe nearly completely skeletonized remains of a young adult female were found on May 21, 2002 by construction workers in Gregg County, Texas. She was between seventeen and twenty-eight when she died, approximately two years before her remains were found on Highway 135. She was white, five feet one to five feet four inches tall and had a petite build. She had a cleft palate that was never treated, which would be obvious to those around her. The cause of her death is unknown and her eye color and hair color were not possible to determine due to the decomposition of the remains. It has not been reported if any clothing was recovered from the scene. Her face was reconstructed in 2014 by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.\n\nOn October 16, 2012, an anonymous tip led police to find an unidentified female body inside a black trash bag in Houston, Texas near Walters Road. She is estimated to be fifteen to seventeen years old, 4-foot 7 to 5-foot 3 tall, possibly of mixed Caucasian and African American descent, and presumed to have died during the month of September 2012. She had a pronounced overbite and dental fillings in three of her lower molars. She became known as \"Smurfette Doe\" as she was found wearing a distinctive blue-green T-shirt with Smurfette depicted one the front with daisies and the text \"He smurfs me, he smurfs me not.\" She was also wearing a size 5 tan cargo pants as well as a black bra (34C), pink thong underwear, and a bobby pin in hair.\n\nA young woman who died mysteriously in 1816. She is buried in Alexandria, Virginia and her grave remains a tourist attraction since her death.\n\nThe skeletonized remains of a female were discovered by a hunter on November 18, 1985 in Alleghany County, Virginia. Only the skull, which was found first, and torso of the subject were recovered. The hair color, eye color, height and weight could not be determined. She was, however, estimated to be a white female between the ages of twenty and forty-nine years old. She had died approximately four months before, as examination indicated. No clothing was found at the scene and it was not possible to recover her fingerprints, as the advanced state of decomposition prevented it. Although her dental information has never been recorded, her DNA was successfully extracted and developed into a suitable profile. She has yet to be forensically reconstructed.\n\nThe skeletonized remains of two Hispanic males, deceased for about two months to one year, were discovered in Ruther Glen, Caroline County, Virginia on November 10, 1988. The pair were related paternally, although it is unknown how closely. The older subject was estimated to be around the age of thirty-five and forty-five and was at a height between five feet four and five feet six inches and weighed between 130 and 140 pounds. He was found with two shirts, two hats, brown pants, two distinct belt buckles, cowboy boots, a green sock, and a red pair of underwear. One of the belt buckles suggested he was from a different country, as the word \"Mexico\" was written on it. The man's clothing appeared to have been recently purchased. The younger male was between seventeen and twenty-five and was about five feet three to five feet seven inches tall; his weight was approximately 135 pounds. He wore a blue and gray shirt and blue jeans. Like his companion, he wore cowboy boots. Four molars were missing from his mouth, and may have been extracted while he was alive at some time.\n\nOn September 28, 1990, the skull of a male, lacking a mandible, was found in a field belonging to a farm in Stafford County, Virginia. The decedent was estimated to be a white male between fifteen and eighteen years old at the time of his death, which had occurred one to three years before. Little was available for a coroner to examine, yet a distinct-shaped tooth was noticed as well as some fillings. As the lower jaw from the skull was never located, those that reconstructed the John Doe consequently had to estimate how it may have appeared. No other remains of the subject were ever found, which prevented any estimation of his height and weight. Investigation into discovering the male's identity has been extensive, as 186 missing persons have been excluded from the case, including David Stack, who was identified as a different unidentified subject in 2015.\n\nThe mummified remains of a woman were discovered on June 6, 2014 in Newport News, Virginia after maintenance workers found her body concealed underneath a sheet. The female was between the ages of twenty-five and forty-five years old and was of an indeterminable race. Her body was in such poor condition that her height and weight were not possible to determine, as were the color of her hair and eyes. One or both of the woman's hands were not found with the body, but there were, at least, the presence of fingers with the remains that were successfully printed and recorded. She wore a shirt of an unknown color and a pair of \"athletic pants\" that were dark in color and had three stripes visible. Extensive investigation has been put forth in this case, as the DNA of the woman has been processed and her dental records were also recorded, ruling out nearly 2,500 missing people, such as Tammy Lynn Leppert and Morgan Nick.\n\nA black man's remains were discovered in a shed in Mill Creek, Washington on January 11, 2015. His cause of death remains undetermined and there wasn't any indication he was murdered. He was between 50 and 65 at the time of his death and was between 5'9\" and 6'1.\" His weight estimation could not be ascertained. The man's right little finger had been amputated at one point during his life. He was found clothed, wearing a plaid tan-colored button-down Eddie Bauer shirt, a short sleeve turtleneck shirt, tan Banana Republic pants and black wool socks. He also carried a red lighter. The area where the remains were discovered was a known place for transients to reside. It is rumored a man known as Jerry Diggs or Deggs lived near the location the body was found, although there is no evidence they were the same person.\nThe man's DNA was submitted to the DNA Doe Project, an organization that uses forensic genealogy to find potential identities for unidentified remains. The results are currently being processed.\n\nA young man in Delafield, Waukesha County, Wisconsin was killed after colliding with a tree while driving a stolen vehicle on September 14, 1977. He was a white male between seventeen and twenty-five, had brown hair, hazel eyes and weighed 155 pounds at the height of six feet tall. When he died, he wore a white sports jacket over a long sleeved shirt with various colors. He also wore a watch, distinctive patterned pants with gray and white squares along with black shoes and socks. He also had a cigarette lighter engraved with \"To John Love Lauri,\" indicating that \"John\" may have been his first name or he had stolen it from someone bearing the name. A business card from an Illinois store known as \"Johnny's Mobile Home Sales\" was also found at the scene.\n\nThe body of a female of African heritage was found floating near a dock in Milwaukee, Wisconsin on March 16, 1982. She may have been deceased for several months, but had been well preserved due to the low temperatures in the river. The girl is believed to have died at the age of fifteen to twenty-five, possibly as old as thirty-five. She was five feet four inches tall and weighed 137 pounds. Her hair was styled in an Afro and was black with reddish tints. Her face was reconstructed by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children in 2014 after her mortuary photographs were submitted. This was done due to her face being swollen from being in the water for a period of time. She had dental fillings and two root canals in her life and also had a scar leading from her abdomen to her pubic region. The victim's death is considered accidental, as there were no signs of foul play on her body. She wore a brown coat, bluish-green socks, boots, tan hat, brown top and a sweater.\n\nThe remains of a young man, mostly skeletonized, were discovered on November 26, 1995 in Bradford Township near Clinton, Rock County, Wisconsin. He is locally known as \"John Clinton Doe\" or \"JCD\". The individual's body was positioned on its stomach in sleeping pose in a remote area on the bank of Turtle Creek. There was not enough evidence to determine the official cause and manner of death, but it is likely he fell asleep or passed out and succumbed to hypothermia. The body is believed by some to be that of a lightly bearded man, known as \"River Guy\", who was seen on October 16, 1994, appearing intoxicated, running in the same creek near where the body was found a year later. The subject seen in 1994 wore clothing similar to the small-medium clothes found with the body, which included camouflage pants, a black shirt, and a multicolored jacket. Black Nike athletic shoes and underwear with a Bart Simpson decor were also found. The male's personal items included a lighter, a homemade pendant and a black wrist watch. Physical examination of the body by forensic anthropologists indicated that the decedent was white, between seventeen and twenty years old, had long brown hair, was between five feet five to five feet seven inches tall, and likely weighed around 140 pounds. He had died approximately one year prior, reinforcing the theory that the body belonged to River Guy. Forensic testing was eventually performed on the bones. A DNA profile was sent to the FBI's National CODIS system. Stable Isotope Analysis indicated he had spent a significant amount of time in the Great Lakes region of the country, specifically Wisconsin, Michigan and Minnesota. 197 missing persons have been ruled out as identities of JCD. Even so, the search for JCD and River Guy continues, with hopes the name of this victim and his family can someday be found and his remains returned to them for proper burial and remembrance. In the mean time, John Clinton Doe is buried in Johnstown Center Cemetery, Rock County, Wisconsin. His skull was cremated.\n\n"}
{"id": "31857031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31857031", "title": "Mao Zuquan", "text": "Mao Zuquan\n\nMao Zuquan (; 1883–1952) was a Kuomintang politician of the Republic of China (1912–49).\n\nBorn in Jiangsu and of Haimen ancestry in 1883, Mao Zuquan studied in Japan as a student during his younger days before being appointed as a member of the Nationalist Party of China's Kuomintang National Assembly in 1912. The National Assembly () refers to several parliamentary bodies that existed in the Republic of China at this time. He quickly rose through the ranks and became a prominent individual in the Chinese government and society and in 1924, he was chosen by China's Kuomintang Central Committee as a candidate for the position of the executive committee member. In his later years, he served a number of positions in the Nationalist government. He was appointed as the head of the Jiangsu Civil Administration on Mainland China under the rule of the government of the Republic of China. He also served as Nationalist China Secretary of the Official Punishment Committee as well as the Secretary-General to the President of the Republic of China. He also served as the Presidential National Policy Consultant and as Nationalist Republic of China's first Minister of the Ministry of Justice (Republic of China).\n\nThe Chinese Civil War (1927–49) forced the Nationalists to retreat to the island of Taiwan after the victory of the Chinese Communists in Mainland China. Mao Zhuquan stayed behind on the mainland, rather than relocate with Chiang Kai-shek and his troops to the island with the rest of his family. In 1950, he was arrested by the Communist Party of China while in Shanghai and subsequently imprisoned for refusing to cooperate with the Communists. In 1952, he died in prison as a result of a hunger strike in opposition to the Communists.\n\nHis descendants now reside in China, Taiwan, as well as the United States in Los Angeles County, California and Houston, Texas.\n"}
{"id": "32167413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32167413", "title": "Mercury: The Afterlife and Times of a Rock God", "text": "Mercury: The Afterlife and Times of a Rock God\n\nMercury: The Afterlife and Times of a Rock God is a monodrama written by Charles Messina about the life and death of Queen lead singer Freddie Mercury. It presents Mercury in the moments just after his death, during which he is confronted with self-examination as he \"seeks redemption before a God unimpressed by his celebrity.\"\n\nFarrokh Bulsara was a boy of Persian heritage who never quite fit into his skin or his teeth. It wasn’t until he became a young man that he discovered his talent and true nature, and was reborn as Freddie Mercury. After a brilliant career, with the arenas empty and the lights out, on the night of November 24, 1991, Freddie is forced to surrender his celebrity and face the frailty of his own humanity. As he succumbs to AIDS, the worldwide icon seeks redemption before a God unimpressed with celebrity. In his ultimate struggle to make sense of his grim fate, Mercury realizes that his fame, fortune, and talents are no longer enough to sustain him; that beyond the darkness of his fears, shines a light far brighter than the star he was on Earth.\n\nThe play debuted at the Sanford Meisner Theatre in New York City's Chelsea district on November 24, 1997 at 6:48pm - the 6th anniversary of Mercury's death. The part of Freddie was played by Khalid Gonçalves (né Paul Gonçalves).\n\nOn opening night of the play, then-New York City Council member Tom Duane introduced the show.\n\nThe play ran every night until December 7.\n\nThe play began its second run on February 14, 1998.\n\nOn February 17, rock musician Billy Squier, a longtime friend of Freddie's, debuted a song that he wrote in memory of him titled \"I Have Watched You Fly\" on stage before a performance of the play. He introduced the song by saying, \"I knew Freddie as a friend. I'm honored to share the stage with him in the afterlife.\"\n\nThe play was also performed every night during the second run, ending on March 8, 1998.\n\nProceeds from the ticket sales of both runs were donated to Gay Men's Health Crisis and The Mercury Phoenix Trust.\n\nOn January 11, 2004, the play experienced a successful revival with a three-month run at the Triad Theater, also in New York City, with Messina again as writer/director and featuring Amir Darvish in the role of Freddie.\n\nIn 2006, the play also had a special, limited engagement from August 30 to September 2 at The Art House in Provincetown, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 2009, the play was published by Original Works Publishing. Proceeds from the sale of the play will be donated to AmfAR, The Foundation for AIDS Research.\n\nBoth incarnations of the play have received favorable reviews from Queen fans and from the music and theater press, notably Billboard, The New Yorker, Time Out New York, Zagat Survey, and \"Backstage\".\n\nOn November 26, 2011, the play was recognized by Flavorwire.com in their list of \"15 Artistic Tributes to Freddie Mercury.\"\n\nThere was no Queen or Freddie Mercury music in the play.\n\nIn a 1997 interview with Playbill.com, Gonçalves said, \"All the things I've seen about Mercury focus on the music, career and persona; very little has been discussed about the person. Not only did Charles write a play about Mercury, he captured the humanity.\" \"Charles and I agreed that doing a musical about Mercury would take away from what we're trying to do in getting to the core of this person. The ultimate goal is to make a film of Mercury's life.\"\n\nLikewise, Darvish, in a 2004 interview with Access Hollywood, stated that, \"We wanted to stray away from the music. We wanted to tell his story. He has a story. Everyone knows the music. People are familiar with the music. It's his story, and where he's come from, and what he's done that people don't know.\n\n\"Mercury: The Afterlife and Times of a Rock God\" marked the first time the life of Freddie Mercury had been presented in a theatrical form.\n\nA film version of the play is currently in development.\n"}
{"id": "9926926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9926926", "title": "Microfactory", "text": "Microfactory\n\nA microfactory refers to a small dimension factory able to produce small dimension products. The term was proposed by the Mechanical Engineer Laboratory (MEL) of Japan in 1990. The microfactory main advantages are to save great amount of resources like space, energy, materials and time.\n\nDue to their reduced dimensions, microfactories should be highly automated. They might contain automatic machine tools, assembly systems, quality inspection systems, material feed systems, waste elimination systems, a system to evaluate tool deterioration and a system to replace tools.\n\nAt least one proposed microfactory is being designed to make many of its own parts, i.e., is a partially self-replicating machine.\n\nLocal Motors has microfactories in Phoenix, Ariz. and Knoxville, Tenn. The company builds its signature products, like the Rally Fighter prerunner sports car right in its microfactories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3197483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3197483", "title": "Moise of Wallachia", "text": "Moise of Wallachia\n\nMoise (died 29 August 1530) was a Voivode (Prince) of Wallachia from January or March 1529 to June 1530, son of Vladislav III. His rule marks the willingness of the boyars to compromise, in order to prevent rules like that of Basarab VI - in which the Ottomans appointed the Prince and profited of his submission. \n\nMoise initially maintained a close relationship with Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent: on Turkish orders, he sent an embassy to Sibiu demanding that the Transylvanian city submit to Ottoman vassal Hungarian King John Zápolya; when refused, Moise's army, placed under the leadership of Seneschal Drăgan din Merişani and Neagoe din Periş (the assassins of Radu de la Afumaţi and, possibly, of Basarab V) attacked and plundered the outskirts.\n\nAfter the Siege of Vienna, the Prince attempted to cut off his country's links to the Porte and align it with Ferdinand of Austria and Ferdinand's regional ally, Moldavian Prince Petru Rareş. This move was backed by the Craioveşti family, but by few other boyars. On February 13, 1530, Moise ordered the murder of several in the opposition, including Drăgan and Neagoe, during his wedding to a sister of a Craioveşti Ban; the rest took refuge in Ottoman lands and elected Vlad Înecatul as the new Prince, with Ottoman recognition. Vlad stormed the country in May, and, by early June, Moise had to take refuge in Sibiu. The officials in Poienari were sent by Vlad to ask that Moise be turned over or killed - since he was now an ally, Sibiu refused.\n\nOn August 24, with Imperial backing, Moise re-entered Wallachia through the Rucăr-Bran Passage; he was joined by Craioveşti troops at Slatina, and fought Vlad Înecatul at Viişoara (in Teleorman), on 29 August. He suffered a major defeat and was killed on the spot.\n"}
{"id": "22121709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22121709", "title": "Monotreme", "text": "Monotreme\n\nMonotremes are one of the three main groups of living mammals, along with placentals (Eutheria) and marsupials (Metatheria). The monotremes are typified by laying eggs rather than bearing live young, and by structural differences in their brains, jaws, digestive and reproductive tracts, and other body parts compared to the more common mammalian types. However, like all mammals, the female monotremes nurse their young with milk.\n\nMonotremes are traditionally referred to as the mammalian subclass Prototheria. The only surviving examples of monotremes are all indigenous to Australia and New Guinea although there is evidence that they were once more widespread including some extinct species in South America. The existing monotreme species are the platypus and four species of echidnas. There is currently some debate regarding monotreme taxonomy.\n\nThe word \"monotreme\" comes from the Greek μονός, \"monos\" (\"single\") and τρῆμα, \"trema\" (\"hole\"), referring to the cloaca.\n\nLike other mammals, monotremes are endothermic with a high metabolic rate (though not as high as other mammals; see below); have hair on their bodies; produce milk through mammary glands to feed their young; have a single bone in their lower jaw; and have three middle-ear bones.\n\nIn common with reptiles and marsupials, monotremes lack the connective structure (corpus callosum) which in placental mammals is the primary communication route between the right and left brain hemispheres. The anterior commissure does provide an alternate communication route between the two hemispheres, though, and in monotremes and marsupials it carries all the commissural fibers arising from the neocortex, whereas in placental mammals the anterior commissure carries only some of these fibers.\n\nExtant monotremes lack teeth as adults. Fossil forms and modern platypus young have a \"tribosphenic\" form of molars (with the occlusal surface formed by three cusps arranged in a triangle), which is one of the hallmarks of extant mammals. Some recent work suggests that monotremes acquired this form of molar independently of placental mammals and marsupials, although this hypothesis remains disputed. Tooth loss in modern monotremes might be related to their development of electrolocation.\n\nMonotreme jaws are constructed somewhat differently from those of other mammals, and the jaw opening muscle is different. As in all true mammals, the tiny bones that conduct sound to the inner ear are fully incorporated into the skull, rather than lying in the jaw as in cynodonts and other premammalian synapsids; this feature, too, is now claimed to have evolved independently in monotremes and therians, although, as with the analogous evolution of the tribosphenic molar, this hypothesis is disputed. Nonetheless, findings on the extinct species \"Teinolophos\" confirm that suspended ear bones evolved independently among monotremes and therians. The external opening of the ear still lies at the base of the jaw.\n\nThe sequencing of the platypus genome has also provided insight into the evolution of a number of monotreme traits, such as venom and electroreception, as well as showing some new unique features, such as the fact that monotremes possess 10 sex chromosomes and that their X chromosome resembles the sex chromosome of birds, suggesting that the two sex chromosomes of marsupial and placental mammals evolved more recently than the split from the monotreme lineage. This feature, along with some other genetic similarities with birds, such as shared genes related to egg-laying, is thought to provide some insight into the most recent common ancestor of the synapsid lineage leading to mammals and the sauropsid lineage leading to birds and modern reptiles, which are believed to have split about 315 million years ago during the Carboniferous. The presence of vitellogenin genes (a protein necessary for egg shell formation) is shared with birds; the presence of this symplesiomorphy suggests that the common ancestor of monotremes, marsupials, and placental mammals was oviparous, and that this trait was retained in monotremes but lost in all other extant mammal groups. DNA analyses suggest that although this trait is shared and is synapomorphic with birds, platypuses are still mammals and that the common ancestor of extant mammals lactated. L-ascorbic acid is synthesized only in the kidneys.\n\nThe monotremes also have extra bones in the shoulder girdle, including an interclavicle and coracoid, which are not found in other mammals. Monotremes retain a reptile-like gait, with legs on the sides of, rather than underneath, their bodies. The monotreme leg bears a spur in the ankle region; the spur is not functional in echidnas, but contains a powerful venom in the male platypus. This venom is derived from b-defensins, proteins that are present in mammals that create holes in viral and bacterial pathogens. Some reptile venom is also composed of different types of b-defensins, another trait shared with reptiles. It is thought to be an ancient mammalian characteristic, as many non-monotreme archaic mammal groups also possess venomous spurs.\n\nThe key anatomical difference between monotremes and other mammals gives them their name; \"monotreme\" means “single opening” in Greek, referring to the single duct (the cloaca) for their urinary, defecatory, and reproductive systems. Monotremes, like reptiles, have a single cloaca; marsupials also have a separate genital tract; whereas most placental mammal females have separate openings for reproduction (the vagina), urination (the urethra), and defecation (the anus). In monotremes, only semen passes through the penis; urine is excreted through the cloaca. The monotreme penis is similar to that of turtles, and is covered by a preputial sac.\n\nMonotreme eggs are retained for some time within the mother and receive nutrients directly from her, and they generally hatch within 10 days after laying, much shorter than the incubation period of sauropsid eggs. Newborn monotremes are larval and fetus-like, much like newborn marsupials (and perhaps all non-placental mammals), and like them have relatively well-developed forelimbs that enable them to crawl around. In fact, given that monotremes lack nipples, their puggles crawl about more frequently than marsupial joeys in search of milk; this difference raises questions about the supposed developmental restrictions on marsupial forelimbs.\n\nMonotremes lactate from their mammary glands via openings in their skin, rather than through nipples. All five extant species show prolonged parental care of infants, with low rates of reproduction and relatively long life-spans.\n\nMonotremes are also noteworthy in their zygotic development. Most mammal zygotes go through holoblastic cleavage, meaning that after fertilization, the ovum splits into multiple, divisible daughter cells. In contrast, the zygotes of monotremes, like those of birds and reptiles, undergo meroblastic (partial) division. This means the cells at the yolk's edge have cytoplasm continuous with that of the egg, which allows the yolk and embryo to exchange waste and nutrients with the surrounding cytoplasm.\n\nMonotremes' metabolic rate is remarkably low by mammalian standards. The platypus has an average body temperature of about rather than the averages of for marsupials and for placental mammals. Research suggests this has been a gradual adaptation to the harsh, marginal environmental niches in which the few extant monotreme species have managed to survive, rather than a general characteristic of extinct monotremes.\n\nMonotremes may have less developed thermoregulation than other mammals, but recent research shows that they easily maintain a constant body temperature in a variety of circumstances, such as the platypus in icy mountain streams. Early researchers were misled by two factors: firstly, monotremes maintain a lower average temperature than most mammals; secondly, the short-beaked echidna, much easier to study than the reclusive platypus, maintains normal temperature only when active; during cold weather, it conserves energy by \"switching off\" its temperature regulation. Understanding of this mechanism came when reduced thermal regulation was observed in the hyraxes, which are placental mammals.\n\nThe echidna was originally thought to experience no rapid eye movement sleep. However, a more recent study showed that REM sleep accounted for about 15% of sleep time observed on subjects at an environmental temperature of 25 °C (77 °F). Surveying a range of environmental temperatures, the study observed very little REM at reduced temperatures of 15 °C (59 °F) and 20 °C (68 °F), and also a substantial reduction at the elevated temperature of 28 °C (82 °F).\n\nMonotreme milk contains a highly expressed antibacterial protein not found in other mammals, perhaps to compensate for the more septic manner of milk intake associated with the absence of nipples.\n\nBoth the platypus and echidna species have spurs on their hind limbs. The echidna spurs are vestigial and have no known function, while the platypus spurs contain venom. Molecular data show that the main component of platypus venom emerged before the divergence of platypus and echidnas, suggesting that the most recent common ancestor of these taxa was also possibly a venomous monotreme.\n\nMonotremes are conventionally treated as comprising a single order Monotremata, though a recent classification proposes to divide them into the orders Platypoda (the platypus along with its fossil relatives) and Tachyglossa (the echidnas, or spiny anteaters). The entire grouping is also traditionally placed into a subclass Prototheria, which was extended to include several fossil orders, but these are no longer seen as constituting a group allied to monotreme ancestry. A controversial hypothesis now relates the monotremes to a different assemblage of fossil mammals in a clade termed Australosphenida.\n\nThe traditional \"theria hypothesis\" states that the divergence of the monotreme lineage from the Metatheria (marsupial) and Eutheria (placental mammal) lineages happened prior to the divergence between marsupials and placental mammals, and this explains why monotremes retain a number of primitive traits presumed to have been present in the synapsid ancestors of later mammals, such as egg-laying. Most morphological evidence supports the theria hypothesis, but one possible exception is a similar pattern of tooth replacement seen in monotremes and marsupials, which originally provided the basis for the competing \"marsupionata hypothesis\" in which the divergence between monotremes and marsupials happened later than the divergence between these lineages and the placental mammals. An analysis by Van Rheede in 2005 concluded that the genetic evidence favors the theria hypothesis, and this hypothesis continues to be the more widely accepted one.\n\nThe time when the monotreme line diverged from other mammalian lines is uncertain, but one survey of genetic studies gives an estimate of about 220 million years ago. Fossils of a jaw fragment 110 million years old were found at Lightning Ridge, New South Wales. These fragments, from the species \"Steropodon galmani\", are the oldest known fossils of monotremes. Fossils from the genera \"Teinolophos\", and \"Obdurodon\" have also been discovered. In 1991, a fossil tooth of a 61-million-year-old platypus was found in southern Argentina (since named \"Monotrematum\", though it is now considered to be an \"Obdurodon\" species). (See fossil monotremes below.) Molecular clock and fossil dating give a wide range of dates for the split between echidnas and platypuses, with one survey putting the split at 19–48 million years ago, but another putting it at 17–89 million years ago. All these dates are more recent than the oldest known platypus fossils; and, if correct, suggest that both the short-beaked and long-beaked echidna species are derived from a platypus-like ancestor. The earliest echidna found to date is about 13 million years.\n\nThe precise relationships among extinct groups of mammals and modern groups such as monotremes are uncertain, but cladistic analyses usually put the last common ancestor (LCA) of placentals and monotremes close to the LCA of placentals and multituberculates, whereas some suggest that the LCA of placentals and multituberculates was more recent than the LCA of placentals and monotremes .\n\nThe fossil record of monotremes is relatively sparse. The first Mesozoic monotreme to be discovered was \"Steropodon galmani\" from Lightning Ridge, New South Wales. Although biochemical and anatomical evidence suggests that the monotremes diverged from the mammalian lineage before the marsupials and placental mammals arose, only a handful of monotreme fossils are known from before the Miocene epoch. The known Mesozoic monotremes are \"Steropodon\" and \"Teinolophos\", all from Australian deposits in the Cretaceous, so monotremes had already diversified by that time. A platypus tooth has been found in the Palaeocene of Argentina, so one hypothesis is that monotremes arose in Australia in the Late Jurassic or Early Cretaceous, and that some migrated across Antarctica to South America, both of which were still united with Australia at that time.; however, several genetic studies suggest an origin in the Triassic.\n\nExcepting \"Ornithorhynchus anatinus\", all the animals listed in this section are known only from fossils.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11950735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11950735", "title": "National Football League player conduct policy", "text": "National Football League player conduct policy\n\nOn April 10, 2007, the National Football League introduced a new conduct policy to help control off-field behavior by its players and preserve the league's public image. The policy, introduced by NFL commissioner Roger Goodell, implements a tougher, new personal-conduct policy, and under conditions of the previous policy handed down two of the harshest suspensions in NFL history for off-field misdeeds. Each player that has been suspended must reapply for reinstatement. The policy only applies to the player's personal lives and image in the public spotlight. The NFL conducts separate investigations for drug and alcohol abuse and performance enhancement.\n\nAs of December 2011, seven players have been suspended for an extended period by the NFL due to conduct off the field.\n\nOn September 1, 2006, just days prior to the start of the 2006 NFL season, Roger Goodell assumed the office of Commissioner of the National Football League. Goodell was met with expectations of enforcing the National Football League's image to the media. In the months leading up to Goodell's ascension, nine players from the Cincinnati Bengals had been arrested. Goodell and the National Football League Players Association decided that teams will be responsible for the conduct of their employees, and will be subject to discipline for any transgressions.\n\nGoodell had consulted with Gene Upshaw, former executive director of the NFLPA, and also created a six-man player advisory committee to discuss conduct, discipline and other topics.\n\nThe first (players) to feel the teeth of the new policy were Tennessee Titans cornerback Adam \"Pacman\" Jones and Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver Chris Henry, college teammates at West Virginia whose first two years in the NFL were marred by arrests. The third player suspended was Chicago Bears defensive tackle Tank Johnson. On August 24, 2007, Atlanta Falcons starting quarterback Michael Vick filed a plea agreement and pleaded guilty in his involvement in illegal dog fighting and euthanization, and was suspended indefinitely without pay; his reinstatement occurred in time for him to play in the 2009-2010 season.\n\nTennessee Titans cornerback Adam \"Pacman\" Jones, facing felony charges in two states, was suspended for the entire 2007 season and given specific conditions to meet before he is reinstated, and he can be reinstated after the Titans' eleventh game. There were 10 occasions in which Jones was interviewed by police, the most recent during the NBA All-Star weekend in Las Vegas. Police there recommended felony and misdemeanor charges against Jones after a fight and shooting at, what Jones refers to as a \"strip club\", left one man paralyzed. Jones later appealed his suspension, saying he was \"just being rebellious\", but withdrew the request just weeks later. On June 20, 2007, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department and Clark County District Attorney's office announced that Jones will face two felony charges stemming from the strip club melee that occurred on February 19, 2007. While the charges have since been dropped, Jones still faces civil actions, and his reinstatement was not to be considered until after the 2008 Pro Bowl. On June 2, 2008, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell cleared Jones to participate in preseason workouts for the Dallas Cowboys, who had traded for him during his suspension, and also said that a decision on Jones' reinstatement for the regular season would be made by September 1, six days before the Cowboys' first 2008 regular-season game. The league announced at that time that Jones' full reinstatement would depend on \"demonstrating that he can conduct himself in a lawful and reliable manner.\" On August 26 Jones found himself fully reinstated, only to be suspended indefinitely on October 14 after an altercation with his bodyguard in a Dallas hotel.\n\nCincinnati Bengals wide receiver Chris Henry, arrested five times in three states between December 2005 and April 2008, was suspended for the first eight games of the 2007 season. He also had to comply with several conditions before returning. Henry was arrested four times in a 14-month span, and received a two-game league suspension last year. He was one of nine Bengals arrested in nine months. Henry was required to not get into further trouble with the law and had to cooperate fully with required counseling, education and treatment assigned to him under league programs.\n\nHenry returned for the second half of the 2007 season but played a minor role on an 7-9 Bengals team. In April 2008, the Bengals released Henry after he was charged with misdemeanor and criminal damaging. He was accused of punching an 18-year-old male in the face and breaking a window in the individual's car. A warrant for Henry's arrest was issued and he surrendered the following day, a police spokesman said. In August 2008, the Bengals re-signed Henry. On December 17, 2009, Henry died from injuries sustained from an accident stemming from a domestic dispute between him and his fiancee.\n\nOn April 30, Terry \"Tank\" Johnson pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor weapons charge as part of an arrangement with prosecutors that will keep him from serving additional jail time. He was sentenced to 45 days in jail, which was served concurrently with a four-month sentence he was already serving in the Cook County Jail for violating his probation; to donate $2,500 to the Gurnee, Illinois Police Department and $2,500 to the Gurnee Exchange Club's child abuse prevention program.\nJohnson's release from jail on May 13 ended his legal problems from the December 2006 weapons incident. The league ultimately suspended Johnson for half of the regular season on June 4. However, he will have the opportunity to reduce the sentence to six games if he complies with Commissioner Goodell's guidelines of behavior, which include going to counseling.\n\nOn June 22, Johnson was pulled over speeding in Arizona. According to the police, he was stopped by the police after traveling at forty miles per hour in a twenty-five-mile per hour zone. He was later suspected of drinking, but was released without being booked or charged.\n\nOn June 25, 2007, Johnson was released from his contract by the Chicago Bears as a result of the June 22 incident. Bears General manager Jerry Angelo stated that he had \"no room for error left.\" The results of Johnson's blood tests were still pending when the Bears made their decision. On July 2, it was announced that Johnson was under the legal limit and will not be charged with driving under the influence.\n\nOn September 18, 2007, Johnson agreed to terms of a two-year contract with the Dallas Cowboys, but was unable to contact the team until week 9 of the 2007 NFL season.\n\nBeginning on April 25, 2007, a large house and surrounding property Michael Vick owned in rural Surry County, Virginia where his 26-year-old cousin Davon T. Boddie had been residing became part of a continuing police investigation for possible operation of an illegal dog fighting ring. The action came after police executed a search warrant following two narcotics arrests of Boddie within a week in the Virginia Peninsula cities of Newport News and Hampton (each about away from the Surry County property) earlier in April. Boddie had given the address of Vick's property in Surry County as his home address when arrested. Earlier, in February 2007, Boddie was convicted in the City of Norfolk of disorderly conduct. At that time, he was carrying a Georgia driver's license giving his address as a house in Duluth, Georgia which was once owned by Vick.\n\nAccording to ESPN, during the April 25 narcotics-related search of Vick's home and property at 1915 Moonlight Drive in the southeastern portion of Surry County, police discovered a large number of animals, and evidence which they felt indicated dog fighting. They called animal-control officers, who saw what they said was evidence that dogfights had taken place there. Police obtained another search warrant, and, with the help of animal control officials from several localities, removed 66 dogs, 55 of them pit bulls, and seized equipment and some physical evidence that could be associated with dog fighting. WAVY-TV reported that detectives also seized guns, illegal ammunition magazines, suspected marijuana and paperwork on dog fighting.\n\nVick, along with three others, was indicted by a federal grand jury on July 17, 2007 for \"conspiracy to travel in interstate commerce in aid of unlawful activities and to sponsor a dog in animal fighting venture\".\nThe 18-page federal indictment outlines an extensive operation which included not only unlawful fighting, but violence against dogs which did not perform well including executions by electrocution, hanging, and shooting, as well as involving tens of thousands of dollars in gambling activity. The four face $350,000 in fines and six years in prison if convicted of the federal charges. The operation was based at Vick's property near Smithfield, Virginia, valued at over $700,000, which could conceivably be forfeited to the government, as the indictment also puts them on notice that the government intends to take possession of property used in the illegal operations and any proceeds.\n\nIn late April 2007, Vick denied his involvement and told \"The Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" \"I'm never at the house...I left the house with my family...They just haven't been doing the right thing... It's unfortunate I have to take the heat behind it. If I'm not there, I don't know what's going on.\"\n\nVick appeared in court on July 26, 2007 and pleaded not guilty, the same date that the Atlanta Falcons began training camp. Later, Vick filed a plea agreement, and admitted his guilt. Vick was suspended without pay \"indefinitely\" by the National Football League on August 24. On August 13, 2009, Vick signed a one-year contract with the Philadelphia Eagles. He was placed on the exempt/commissioner's permission list on September 5, 2009. On September 15, 2009, Vick was activated to the 53-man roster.\n\nOn July 17, 2009, a civil suit was filed in Washoe County, Nevada District Court accusing Ben Roethlisberger of sexually assaulting Andrea McNulty, 31, in June 2008 in his hotel room while he was in Lake Tahoe for a celebrity golf tournament. No charges were filed in the case.\n\nOn March 5, 2010, it was revealed that a woman from Milledgeville, Georgia had accused Roethlisberger of sexual assault. While Roethlisberger was once again not charged with a crime following the events at the nightclub, the league still suspended him for six games, which was later reduced to four. This was the first time in league history a player has been suspended under the personal conduct policy without being charged with a crime. Roethlisberger and Ezekiel Elliott are the only two players to have been suspended under this policy without being charged with a crime.\n\nOn February 15, 2014, Ray Rice and his fiancée Janay Palmer were arrested and charged with assault after a physical altercation at Revel Casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Celebrity news website TMZ posted a video of Rice dragging Palmer's body out of an elevator after knocking her out. The Ravens issued a statement following TMZ's release of the video, calling Rice's domestic violence arrest a \"serious matter\". The matter is being handled by the Atlantic County Prosecutor's Office.\n\nOn March 27, 2014, a grand jury indicted Rice on third-degree aggravated assault, with a possible jail sentence of three to five years and a fine of up to $15,000. Rice married Palmer on March 28, 2014. For the incident, Rice was suspended for the first two games of the 2014 NFL season on July 25, 2014. The criminal charges were later dropped after Rice agreed to undergo court-supervised counseling. In a news conference announcing longer suspension lengths for future domestic violence incidents, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said that he \"didn't get it right\" in deciding Rice's punishment.\n\nOn September 8, 2014, TMZ released additional footage from an elevator camera showing Rice punching Palmer in the face. The Baltimore Ravens terminated Rice's contract as a result. Shortly afterward, Goodell announced that Rice had been suspended from the NFL indefinitely. He was reinstated on November 28, 2014, after winning an appeal.\n\nAdrian Peterson was indicted by a Montgomery County, Texas, grand jury on charges of reckless or negligent injury to a child on September 12, 2014. He was subsequently deactivated for one game by the Vikings. Photos posted on TMZ.com revealed his 4-year-old son's legs with slash-like wounds. The prosecution in the case alleges that Peterson used a tree branch to beat his young son repeatedly on his back, buttocks, genitals, ankles, and legs. In early November the Vikings' running back had entered a no contest plea. Adrian Peterson was also ordered to serve 80 hours worth of community service while also being placed on probation. However, later on in November 2014 the NFL suspended Peterson for the rest of the season without pay. On December 12, 2014 the NFL apparently had denied his appeal. Furthermore, the Vikings fans have apparently stated they'd like to have Peterson back but the running back isn't guaranteed to get any portion of his salary for the 2015 season.\n\nOn June 18, 2013, Aaron Hernandez's house in North Attleboro was searched by police for several hours in connection with an investigation into the shooting death of a friend, Odin Lloyd. Lloyd's body was found in an industrial park about a mile away from Hernandez's house with multiple gunshot wounds to the back and chest. The Massachusetts State Police obtained a search warrant after evidence surfaced that Hernandez intentionally destroyed his home security system. A cell phone belonging to Hernandez was turned over to police \"in pieces\" and Hernandez allegedly hired a \"team of house cleaners\" the same day Lloyd's body was discovered, raising additional suspicion.\n\nOn June 20, 2013, the \"Boston Herald\" reported that Hernandez had been \"barred\" from Gillette Stadium by the Patriots. According to NFL.com, Patriots owner Robert Kraft decided to have Patriots staff ask Hernandez to leave because he did not want Gillette to be \"the site of a media stakeout\". However, the \"Boston Globe\" reported that the Patriots front office had decided days before Hernandez's arrest that if Hernandez were arrested on any charge related to the case, even an obstruction of justice charge, he would be released.\n\nOn June 26, 2013, Hernandez was taken from his home in handcuffs and into police custody. The Patriots released Hernandez about 90 minutes later, before officially knowing the charges against him. Their press release stated: A young man was murdered last week and we extend our sympathies to the family and friends who mourn his loss. Words cannot express the disappointment we feel knowing that one of our players was arrested as a result of this investigation. We realize that law enforcement investigations into this matter are ongoing. We support their efforts and respect the process. At this time, we believe this transaction is simply the right thing to do.\n\nLater that day, Hernandez was charged with first-degree murder, in addition to five gun-related charges; if convicted of first-degree murder, Hernandez faced life in prison without the possibility of parole; Hernandez could not face the death penalty, as the state of Massachusetts abolished the death penalty in 1984. Instead, he was held without bail at the Bristol County Jail.\n\nTwo other men were also arrested in connection with Lloyd's death: Carlos Ortiz, on June 27, 2013, and Ernest Wallace on June 28, 2013. Ortiz revealed to the police that Hernandez had secretly rented an apartment in Franklin, Massachusetts. A subsequent search of the apartment, according to the Associated Press, \"turned up ammunition and clothing that police believe could be evidence in the murder case against him\".\n\nOn August 22, 2013, Aaron Hernandez was indicted by a grand jury for the murder of Odin Lloyd.\n\nOn September 6, 2013, Hernandez was arraigned and pleaded not guilty to first-degree murder. He was held without bail, but reserved the right to request bail later.\n\nOn April 15, 2015, Hernandez was found guilty of first-degree murder, as well as five weapon charges, automatically being sentenced to life in prison without possibility of parole.\n\nWhile on trial for Lloyd's murder, Hernandez was indicted for the 2012 double homicide of Daniel de Abreu and Safiro Furtado; he was acquitted of the double homicide after a 2017 trial. Five days after the acquittal, Hernandez was found dead in his cell by hanging, which was ruled a suicide. Due to the fact that his death occurred while the murder conviction was under appeal, the conviction was vacated.·§\n\nOn April 3, 2013, the NFL announced that Daryl Washington would be suspended for the first four games of the season for violating the league's substance policy.\n\nOn May 30, 2014, the NFL announced that Washington would be suspended for at least the 2014 season for once again violating the league's substance policy bringing his personal credibility and character into question after his statement from the 2013 violation: \"I promise to work even harder and to not let you guys down anymore.\"\n\nOn May 3, 2013, Washington was arrested in Phoenix, Arizona on two counts of aggravated assault (and one count of criminal trespass in the first-degree) from an incident on May 1, 2013 involving his 27-year-old ex-girlfriend with whom he shares a daughter. The altercation concerns a custody dispute over the 5-month-old child. Phoenix Police accuse him of pushing her with two hands, causing her to fall and break her right collarbone. On March 24, 2014, he pleaded guilty to the crime of aggravated assault, a class 6 felony. Washington was sentenced to one-year of supervised probation on April 23, 2014.\n\nOn Wednesday September 17, 2014 Jonathan Dwyer was arrested because of two incidents at Dwyer's home in southeast Phoenix on July 21 at 8 a.m. and July 22 at 4 p.m., according to the Phoenix Police Department. The incidents concerned attacks against his wife and 18-month-old child.\n\nDwyer was booked into Maricopa County Jail on one count of aggravated assault causing a fracture, one count of aggravated assault involving a minor, two counts of criminal damage, one count of preventing the use of a phone in an emergency, and assault. He was freed the next morning on a $25,000 cash bond and ordered to wear an electronic monitoring device. He was also banned from any contact with the alleged victims, travels outside of Arizona and any involvement with weapons, drugs or alcohol.\n\nDwyer admitted to the incidents during interviews with detectives but denied physically assaulting his wife and baby son. According to police, a search warrant was executed at his home.\n\nBefore the start of the 2015 NFL season, Martavis Bryant was suspended for four games in August for violating the league's substance abuse policy. He would return and play the rest of the season with the Steelers. During the suspension, he spent time in rehab in Houston. Bryant was charged with violating the substance abuse policy again, and suspended, this time for the entire 2016 NFL season.\n\nOn August 11, 2017, the NFL suspended Dallas Cowboys running back Ezekiel Elliott for the first six games of the 2017 season, despite the lead NFL investigator in the case reportedly recommending no suspension. His suspension stems from various off the field incidents including being accused of domestic violence in 2016 by his ex-girlfriend who claimed on five different occasions he assaulted her. Despite never being charged, the NFL launched a year long investigation into the allegations. In March 2017, Elliott was captured on video pulling down woman's shirt exposing her breasts while watching a St. Patrick's Day parade in Dallas. Four months later in July 2017 he was allegedly involved in an altercation at a nightclub during which a DJ’s nose was broken. Dallas police eventually suspended the investigation after they were unable to locate the victim. \n\nA Domestic Violence Policy has been put into effect after the Ray Rice domestic violence incident on August 28, 2014. Commissioner Roger Goodell has lengthen bans to six games for the first domestic violence incident and a lifetime ban for a second incident. This is after the NFL suspended Ray Rice for two games and receiving large amounts of criticism during the process.\n\nThe NFL has a history of inconsistently punishing domestic violence amongst its players. A majority of domestic violence violations are punished with about a 1.5 game suspension. The NFL rather has a consistent policy for punishing drug violations with performance-enhancing drugs and substance abuses averaging about 4 games suspension for the first offense and about 8 games suspension of performance-enhancing drugs and a 16 games suspension for substance abuse for a second offense.\n\nThe NFL has released a new Personal Conduct Policy on December 10, 2014. It is an updated version of the 2007 Personal Conduct Policy. It has added more infractions to the 2007 policy, which include violence against others and domestic violence. The disciplinary process is more detailed in terms of its investigative progress and consequences for infractions than its 2007 counterpart. The new policy will include counseling and treatment services for the offender and their victims.\n\nAs part of the domestic violence policy, the NFL will be educating high school students about domestic violence. The person inside the NFL that is in charge on working on domestic violence and sexual assault issues is Anna Isaacson, who Roger Goodell named the first vice president of social responsibility on September 15, 2014. She has created new training sessions for every player and league employee as well as convincing the NFL to put in $10 million for domestic violence advertisements. She also constructed a partnership between the NFL and the National Domestic Violence Hotline to fund more resources to the various call centers.\n\nThe new policy has been praised by both NFL players and sports columnists as a necessity to help improve the National Football League's image. The new policy—which also applies to coaches and front office personnel and has the support of NFLPA director Gene Upshaw—prompted questions and strong reactions among players.\nTeammates of Chris Henry, including safety Madieu Williams, approved of the measure.\n\nOakland Raiders defensive tackle Warren Sapp stated, \"I understand what they're doing. Some of these new-jack kids act like they're walking on water. Sometimes, they need to be slapped in the face to wake up.\"\n\nNew England Patriots owner Robert Kraft said of the policy, \"I hope this sends a message to people in our league for how to conduct themselves. We have to be careful. People in America can't relate to overindulged athletes not acting responsibly.\"\n\nMany considered the suspensions on Jones and Henry to be too harsh, especially Jones', which was enforced despite Jones having not been convicted of any crime. Criticism was also drawn at the commissioner's ability to punish the rest of the player's team and revoke draft picks. Goodell's actions are also leaving the league vulnerable to legal action from player's lawyers.\n\nWhen New England Patriots head coach Bill Belichick and his staff were accused of illegally videotaping the New York Jets' defensive playcalling signals in September 2007, Belichick was not suspended, but instead fined $500,000. The team was penalized a first round draft pick in 2008 as they qualified for the playoffs with a perfect 16–0 record, but would have been penalized with a second and third round pick had they failed to make the playoffs. (The Patriots still ended up with the New Orleans Saints' first-round pick in a trade, selecting Jerod Mayo with the pick.) The move was heavily criticized as being a double standard. Although the videotaping is not considered to violate personal conduct rules, NFL players, including Cincinnati Bengals quarterback Carson Palmer were critical of Commissioner Goodell's move. When Goodell penalized Belichick, he determined that the use of the camera during the Patriots’ season-opening 38-14 win over the New York Jets had no impact on the game.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32065439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32065439", "title": "Nino Konis Santana", "text": "Nino Konis Santana\n\nNino Konis Santana (born 12 January 1957 in Vero, Tutuala, Lautém District, d. 11 March 1998 in Ermera District) was an East Timorese freedom fighter who led the Fretilin militia between April 1993 and his death in March 1998 during the Indonesian occupation of East Timor, succeeding Ma'huno Bulerek Karathayano after the latter's capture in 1993. Santana died in an accident, after he was shot in the leg during an Indonesian ambush. He was succeeded by Taur Matan Ruak.\n\n"}
{"id": "6131079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6131079", "title": "Obaysch", "text": "Obaysch\n\nObaysch (1849? – 11 March 1878) was the first hippopotamus seen in Great Britain since prehistoric times, and the first in Europe since Ancient Rome. He was captured on an island on the White Nile when he was less than one year old. His name is derived from the name of the island.\n\nThe Ottoman Viceroy of Egypt, Abbas Pasha, agreed with the British Consul General, Sir Charles Murray (later known as \"Hippopotamus Murray\") to swap Obaysch and some other exotic animals for some greyhounds and deerhounds. Obaysch was sent by boat down the Nile to Cairo, accompanied by a herd of cows to provide him with milk. He was sent by P&O steamer to Southampton, and he arrived at London Zoo on 25 May 1850. He was an instant sensation in London, attracting up to 10,000 visitors each day, and spawning a trade in hippo memorabilia and even a Hippopotamus Polka (by L. St. Mars). The number of visitors to the Zoo in 1850 was double the previous year.\n\nAbbas Pasha sent a second hippo to London, a female named Adhela who arrived on 22 July 1854. After a wait of over 16 years, the pair finally produced offspring in 1871, but the calf died after 2 days. A second calf died the following year, but a third, born on 5 November 1872, survived. It was a female named Guy Fawkes. Adhela survived Obaysch by 4 years, dying on 16 December 1882. Guy Fawkes died on 20 March 1908.\n\nObaysch once escaped from captivity in London Zoo and according to legend a keeper was used as bait to lure him back into his enclosure.\n"}
{"id": "3879110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3879110", "title": "Orzubek Nazarov", "text": "Orzubek Nazarov\n\nOrzubek Nazarov (born August 30, 1966 in Kant, Kyrgyz SSR) is a boxer of Uzbek/Kyrgyz ethnicity, who won the bronze medal at the 1986 World Amateur Boxing Championships in Reno. He is a former WBA Lightweight Champion.\n\nAs an amateur Nazarov was the World bronze medalist in 1986 and European champion in 1987 and had a record of 153-12.\n\nThe southpaw turned pro in 1990 in Japan, one of the six Amateur Elite boxers (including Yuri Arbachakov) scouted out of the old Soviet Union by the Kyoei Gym.\nHe won the WBA lightweight title in 1993 in South Africa against Dingaan Thobela and defended it on the road against contenders Thobela, Joey Gamache and Leavander Johnson and two lesser fighters in his adopted home country.\nEye problems plagued him and he retired after being upset by Jean Baptiste Mendy in France.\n\n"}
{"id": "3321652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3321652", "title": "Paramecia (alga)", "text": "Paramecia (alga)\n\nParamecia is a non-mineralized Ediacaran alga with a differentiated, compartmentalized thallus. This alga probably had multiple phases in its lifecycle, as possible reproductive structures have been identified. \n"}
{"id": "28364626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28364626", "title": "Peripatidae", "text": "Peripatidae\n\nPeripatidae is a family of velvet worms. The oldest putative representatives of the family herald from Burmese amber dated to the mid-Cretaceous, around 100 Ma, with representatives from Dominican and Baltic amber attesting to a broader distribution in the Palaeogene / Neogene; molecular variability suggests that the family's crown group may have arisen in the early Mesozoic.\n\nThe Peripatidae exhibit a range of derivative features. They are longer, on average, than the Peripatopsidae and also have more leg pairs, numbering between 22 and 43—the gonopore is always between the penultimate pair. There are no oviparous species—the overwhelming majority are viviparous. The females of many viviparous species develop a placenta with which to provide the growing embryo with nutrients.\n\nThe Peripatidae are restricted to the tropical and subtropical zones; in particular, they inhabit Central America, northern South America, Gabon, Northeast India, and Southeast Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "432691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=432691", "title": "Philia", "text": "Philia\n\nPhilia (; ), often translated \"brotherly love\", is one of the four ancient Greek words for love: \"philia\", \"storge\", \"agape\" and \"eros\". In Aristotle's \"Nicomachean Ethics\", philia is usually translated as \"friendship\" or affection. The complete opposite is called a phobia.\n\nAs Gerard Hughes points out, in Books VIII and IX Aristotle gives examples of philia including:\nAll of these different relationships involve getting on well with someone, though Aristotle at times implies that something more like actual liking is required. When he is talking about the character or disposition that falls between obsequiousness or flattery on the one hand and surliness or quarrelsomeness on the other, he says that this state:\nThis passage indicates also that, though broad, the notion of philia must be mutual, and thus excludes relationships with inanimate objects, though philia with animals, such as pets, is allowed for (see 1155b27–31).\n\nIn his \"Rhetoric\", Aristotle defines the activity involved in philia (τὸ φιλεῖν) as:\nJohn M. Cooper argues that this indicates:\n\nAristotle takes philia to be both necessary as a means to happiness (\"no one would choose to live without friends even if he had all the other goods\" [1155a5–6]) and noble or fine (καλόν) in itself.\n\nAristotle divides friendships into three types, based on the motive for forming them: friendships of utility, friendships of pleasure and friendships of the good.\n\nFriendships of utility are relationships formed without regard to the other person at all. Buying merchandise, for example, may require meeting another person but usually needs only a very shallow relationship between the buyer and seller. In modern English, people in such a relationship would not even be called friends, but acquaintances (if they even remembered each other afterwards). The only reason these people are communicating is in order to buy or sell things, which is not a bad thing, but as soon as that motivation is gone, so goes the relationship between the two people unless another motivation is found. Complaints and quarrels generally only arise in this type of friendship.\n\nAt the next level, friendships of pleasure are based on pure delight in the company of other people. People who drink together or share a hobby may have such friendships. However, these friends may also part—in this case if they no longer enjoy the shared activity, or can no longer participate in it together.\n\nFriendships of the good are ones where both friends enjoy each other's characters. As long as both friends keep similar characters, the relationship will endure since the motive behind it is care for the friend. This is the highest level of philia, and in modern English might be called true friendship.\n\nNot all bonds of philia involves reciprocity Aristotle notes. Some examples of these might include love of father to son, elder to younger or ruler to subject. Generally though, the bonds of philia are symmetrical.\n\nIf philia is a type of love, Thomas Jay Oord has argued that it must be defined so as not to contradict love. Oord defines philia as an intentional response to promote well-being when cooperating with or befriending others. And his philia is not only that meaning. The philia also gives humans authentic friendship.\n\nAristotle recognizes that there is an apparent conflict between what he says about \"philia\" and what he says elsewhere (and what is widely held at the time) about the self-sufficient nature of the fulfilled life:\nHe offers various answers. The first is based on the inherent goodness of acting for and being concerned for others (\"the excellent person labours for his friends and for his native country, and will die for them if he must\" [1169a19–20]); thus, being a wholly virtuous and fulfilled person necessarily involves having others for whom one is concerned—without them, one's life is incomplete:\n\nAristotle's second answer is: \"good people's life together allows the cultivation of virtue\" (1170a12). Finally, he argues that one's friend is \"another oneself,\" and so the pleasure that the virtuous person gets from his own life is also found in the life of another virtuous person. \"Anyone who is to be happy, then, must have excellent friends\" (1170b19).\n\nFor Aristotle, in order to feel the highest form of philia for another, one must feel it for oneself; the object of philia is, after all, \"another oneself.\" This alone does not commit Aristotle to egoism, of course. Not only is self-love not incompatible with love of others, but Aristotle is careful to distinguish the sort of self-love that is condemned (ascribed to \"those who award the biggest share in money, honours, and bodily pleasures to themselves. For these are the goods desired and eagerly pursued by the many on the assumption that they are best\" [1168b17–19]) from that which should be admired (ascribed to one who \"is always eager above all to perform just or temperate actions or any other actions in accord with the virtues, and in general always gains for himself what is fine [noble, good]\" [1168b25–27]). In fact:\n\nAristotle also holds, though, that, as Hughes puts it: \"[t]he only ultimately justifiable reason for doing anything is that acting in that way will contribute to a fulfilled life.\" Thus acts of \"philia\" might seem to be essentially egoistic, performed apparently to help others, but in fact intended to increase the agent's happiness. This, however, confuses the nature of the action with its motivation; the good person doesn't perform an action to help a friend because it will give her fulfillment; she performs it in order to help the friend, and in performing it makes both her friend and herself happy. The action is thus good both in itself and for the effect it has on the agent's happiness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48334213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48334213", "title": "Puisseguin road crash", "text": "Puisseguin road crash\n\nThe 2015 Puisseguin road crash occurred on 23 October 2015, at 07:30 local time (05:30 UTC). 43 people, including a three-year-old boy, died when a bus and a lorry collided in Puisseguin, a commune in south-western France.\n\nThe crash happened at around 07:30 on the morning of Friday, 23 October 2015 at a bend on Departmental Road 17 not far south of Puisseguin. Authorities said they believed the lorry, carrying logs, lost control on a bend and jackknifed into the coach's path. Both vehicles burst into flames as a result of the collision.\n\nThe cause of the fire and consequent loss of life was that the truck had installed on a large aluminum gasoline tank carrying fuel for chainsaws and other logging equipment which ruptured in the crash. Afterwards, gasoline streamed down the hill under the bus, where accident sparks ignited it, and the fire traveled back to the truck. \n\nThe bus was equipped with emergency escape hammers with which to break windows, but passengers were not aware of them or not instructed in their use, and several passengers had mobility issues.\n\nForty-one of the dead were on the bus, with the other two being the driver of the lorry and his three-year-old son. Most of the dead on the bus were elderly people who had just set off from the nearby town of Petit-Palais-et-Cornemps, and belonged to that town's seniors' club.\n\nAccording to the BEA-TT, the different applicable rules/standards for road vehicles such as autocar, to address fire concerns, are defined at different scales, to let those vehicles work and operate in various countries: United Nations, European Union, and France. Some European directives have been withdrawal.\n\nAccording to Elisabeth Borne, France submitted the BEA-TT report to United Nations on 11 October 2017.\n"}
{"id": "55839098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55839098", "title": "Quidditism", "text": "Quidditism\n\nIn metaphysics, quidditism is the perspective implied by the belief that nomological roles do not supervene on causal properties. Quidditism endorses the existence of quiddities (the existence of \"thisnesses\" of properties) and is typically characterized in opposition to causal essentialism.\n"}
{"id": "3829948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3829948", "title": "Ramu III", "text": "Ramu III\n\nRamu III (known as \"Ramu,\" and later renamed \"Winston\") was an Orca (\"killer whale\") who resided at the now-defunct Windsor Safari Park in Berkshire, England between 1970 and 1976, and later, at SeaWorld San Diego in California between 1976 and 1986. An adult male, Ramu (actually Ramu III) was caught on August 8, 1970, after his pod of eighty orcas was 'corralled' in Penn Cove, near Coupeville, Washington, USA (six others were also caught, while four died and the remaining 69 escaped). At capture, Ramu was 13.32 ft (4.06 m) long and a member of the Southern Resident Killer Whales' L-pod. It is assumed his family members still survive in the Salish Sea and in nearby Pacific coastal waters.\n\nRamu was then transferred to Windsor Safari Park, where he became the star attraction in the park's Sea World exhibition, (not to be confused with the American SeaWorld, where he would later move) splashing people with the beating of his tail against the water, along with a small number of dolphins, with whom Ramu cohabited. Over the next six years, Ramu matured into a bull Orca and began to outgrow the relatively small tank at the safari park. In October 1976, Ramu was sold to SeaWorld San Diego in a swap that saw two female Orcas (named Winnie and Hoi Wai) move in the other direction. To avoid confusion with another Orca named Ramu that already lived at Seaworld San Diego, Ramu was renamed Winston, although he inevitably performed under the stage name Shamu, (used for most performing whales at SeaWorld, after the first whale kept there.)\n\nAs a fully grown male, Winston now dwarfed even his pool mates, his size distinguishing him almost as much as his dorsal fin, which flopped over to his left hand side and made him instantly recognizable to visitors to the park. He courted and mated with several females at the park, impregnating Kandu V, Kenau and Katina. Katina was the first to give birth, on September 26, 1985, to a healthy young female Orca named Kalina (the first of the 'Baby Shamu' generation of whale calves). In January 1986, both Kenau and Kandu V lost their babies, Kenau's dying of a heart defect 11 days after birth and Kandu's being stillborn.\n\nWinston was not a failure by any means though. Kalina was the first calf conceived and born in captivity successfully, and the success ushered in a generation of numerous Orca births in captivity around the world. Kalina's mother Katina is still alive at SeaWorld Orlando in Florida, along with Kalina's own calves, Keet, (the first 'grandbaby' Shamu), Keto, Tuar and Skyla, as well as a stillbirth in 1997. In 2004, Keet had his first offspring, a female called Kalia, the first great grandbaby Shamu, making Winston a great grandfather. In 2005, Keet sired Halyn, his second offspring thus making Winston a great grandfather again. Sadly, Kalina died in October 4, 2010, from septicemia, at 25 years old.\n\nWinston died on April 28, 1986 of chronic cardiovascular failure. At the time of his last health checkup, Winston had been 7.4 metres long and weighed 5,443 kg. His age at death has been estimated as between 15 and 20 years of age.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7901543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7901543", "title": "Retroplumidae", "text": "Retroplumidae\n\nRetroplumidae is a family of heterotrematan crabs, placed in their own (monotypic) superfamily, Retroplumoidea.\n\nEight genera are recognised, of which all but two are only known from fossils:\n\nTen species in two genera survive in the deep sea of the Indo-Pacific region:\n\nFossil specimens ascribed to the Retroplumidae are known from the Late Cretaceous onwards, with \"Archaeopus antennatus\" in Coniacian–Maastrichtian rocks in California and \"Archaeopus ezoensis\" from Turonian–Maastrichtian rocks from Japan.\n"}
{"id": "7459884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7459884", "title": "Suspensor", "text": "Suspensor\n\nSuspensors are anatomical structures found in certain fungi and plants.\nIn fungi, suspensors are filamentous structural formations having the function of holding a zygospore between two strains of hyphae.\n\nIn plants, suspensors are found in zygotes in angiosperms, connecting the endosperm to an embryo. Usually in dicots the suspensor cells divide transversally a few times to form a filamentous suspensor of 6-10 cells. The suspensor helps in pushing the embryo into the endosperm. The first cell of the suspensor towards the micropylar end becomes swollen and functions as a haustorium. The haustorium has wall ingrowths similar to those of a transfer cell. The last of the suspensors at the end of the embryo is known as hypophysis. Hypophysis later gives rise to the radicle and root cap. During embryo development in angiosperm seeds, normal development involves asymmetrical division of the unicellular embryo, inducing polarity. The smaller terminal cell divides to become the proembryo while the larger basal cell divides laterally to form the suspensor. The suspensor is analogous to a placental mammalian's umbilical cord.\n\n"}
{"id": "56833816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56833816", "title": "Time aware long short-term memory", "text": "Time aware long short-term memory\n\nTime Aware LSTM (T-LSTM) is a long short-term memory (LSTM) unit capable of handling irregular time intervals in longitudinal patient records. T-LSTM was developed by researchers from Michigan State University, IBM Research, and Cornell University and was first presented in the Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD) conference.\nExperiments using real and synthetic data proved that T-LSTM auto-encoder outperformed widely used frameworks including LSTM and MF1-LSTM auto-encoders.\n"}
{"id": "11136915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11136915", "title": "Tuanku Abbas", "text": "Tuanku Abbas\n\nTuanku Abbas was a Malayan pirate active in the 1840s and the brother of a rajah of Aceh. He was well known for sponsoring and leading pirate raids, the most notable of which occurred in 1843 when he captured an Indian Crew and plundered their ship. After the incident the crew escaped and appealed to the British authorities who, the following year, burned Abbas' village to the ground.\n"}
{"id": "4985268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4985268", "title": "Vach nacht", "text": "Vach nacht\n\nA vach nacht \n\nAs described in \"Edut L'Yisrael: Sheiruta di'Tzlota\" (a text on customs surrounding weddings and births in Judaism, published in Israel c. 1960), the current practice appears to be a combination of two distinct customs.\n\nFirstly, as stressed in the Kabbalistic sources, the night before the circumcision is considered a spiritually dangerous time for the baby; as such, the father would gather ten men to conduct a vigil to study Torah to protect him from metaphysical damage. Thus, this night is given the Yiddish name, \"night of watching [or 'guarding']\".\n\nSecondly, non-Kabbalistic sources describe a practice several centuries old, that on the Friday night before the bris milah, a melamed would take his preschool-age students to say Shema near the baby, and afterwards receive candy (or their equivalent at that point in history, namely nuts or dried fruit).\n"}
{"id": "17959490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17959490", "title": "Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way", "text": "Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way\n\nWestward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way (also known as Westward Ho) is a painted mural displayed behind the western staircase of the House of Representatives chamber in the United States Capitol Building. The mural was painted by Emanuel Gottlieb Leutze in 1861 and symbolizes Manifest Destiny, the belief that the United States was destined for Western exploration and expansion originating from the initial colonies along the Atlantic seaboard to the Pacific Ocean. A study measuring hangs in the Smithsonian American Art Museum.\n\nThe darkness turning into light represents the greatness that was believed to lie in the future West.\n\nLeutze combined pioneer men and women, mountain guides, wagons, and mules to suggest a divinely ordained pilgrimage to the Promised Land of the western frontier. Within the left half of the picture is a depiction of the entrance to the San Francisco Bay, the Golden Gate, which is being pointed to by the pilgrim seated atop the rock in the foreground. Within the right hemisphere of the painting is a depiction of a valley, representing the Valley of Darkness and symbolic of the troubles faced by explorers. The imagery is familiar imperial iconography and is regarded as a symbol of American exceptionalism and the realization of Manifest Destiny, ultimately leading to the evolution of the American Empire.\n\nThe painting takes its inspiration from the closing lines of George Berkeley's \"Verses on the Prospect of Planting Arts and Learning in America:\n\n<poem>\nWestward the course of empire takes its way; \nThe first four Acts already past, \nA fifth shall close the Drama with the day; \nTime's noblest offspring is the last.\n</poem>\n\nThe imagery of the pilgrim gesturing on a high rock is very similar to the 5 cent postage stamp, \"Fremont in the Rocky Mountains\" that was part of the 1898 Trans-Mississippi Issue, and reprinted a century later.\n\nA Currier and Ives print from 1868 uses the same title and theme for a very different print, showing a railroad crossing a new settlement as the train goes west.\n\nA and a stereograph by Alexander Gardner, both of an 1867 end-of-track frontier construction train, were titled \"Westward The Course of Empire Takes Its Way\".\n\nDavid Foster Wallace named one of his short stories \"Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way\" in his 1989 collection \"Girl with Curious Hair\".\n\nEarly revisions of the 1995 computer game \"Oregon Trail II\" depict the study version of this painting on the title screen.\n"}
{"id": "591312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=591312", "title": "Yuri's Night", "text": "Yuri's Night\n\nYuri's Night is an international celebration held every April 12 to commemorate milestones in space exploration.\n\nYuri's Night is named for the first human to launch into space, Yuri Gagarin, who flew the Vostok 1 spaceship on April 12, 1961. The launch of STS-1, the first Space Shuttle mission, is also honored, as it was launched 20 years to the day of Vostok 1 on April 12, 1981. In 2011, Yuri's Night was celebrated at over 567 events in 75 countries on 7 continents.\nYuri's Night is often called the \"World Space Party\".\n\nThe goal of Yuri's Night is to increase public interest in space exploration and to inspire a new generation of explorers. Driven by space-inspired artistic expression and culminating in a worldwide network of annual celebrations and educational events, Yuri's Night creates a global community of young people committed to shaping the future of space exploration while developing responsible leaders and innovators with a global perspective. These global events are a showcase for elements of culture that embrace space including music, dance, fashion, and art.\n\nYuri's Night was created in 2000 by Loretta Hidalgo Whitesides, George T. Whitesides and Trish Garner. The first Yuri's Night was held on April 12, 2001, exactly 40 years after the launch of Vostok 1. Since 1962, April 12 has been celebrated in Russia (formerly the Soviet Union) as Cosmonautics Day ()\nand since 2011 internationally as the International Day of Human Space Flight.\n\nThe 2004 Yuri's Night event in Los Angeles was attended by space-related figures including author Ray Bradbury, space tourist Dennis Tito, X-Prize founder Peter Diamandis, *NSYNC's Lance Bass and Nichelle Nichols (Uhura from the original \"Star Trek\" series). The event included a large party with 2 dance floors and world-class DJs.\n\nThe 2007 event in the San Francisco Bay Area was held at NASA Ames Research Center at Moffett Field in Mountain View, CA. The event featured artistic installations, technology demonstrations, and DJ music continuing through dawn of the following day.\n\nApril 2011 marked the 50th anniversary of Gagarin's historic first flight. Over 100,000 people attended 567 Yuri's Night parties in 75 countries, and the crew of Expedition 27 recorded a Yuri's Night celebratory greeting from the International Space Station.\n\nYuri's Night events \"combine space-themed partying with education and outreach\". Parties and events are held at NASA centers, museums, schools, bars, houses, and other locations.\n\nYuri's Night has been celebrated in locations including Los Angeles , the San Francisco Bay Area , Huntsville, Alabama , New Orleans , Inverness , Stockholm, Tel Aviv, Tokyo, Lisbon , Helsinki Afghanistan, Latvia , Romania, Peru, Antarctica, and the International Space Station , in addition to many other locations and virtual online celebrations .\n\nYuri's Night is organized on a global level by an all-volunteer \"Executive Team\", which provides logistical and promotional support to Yuri's Night events worldwide. Individual organizers are responsible for registering and running their local events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42663598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42663598", "title": "Zack Mwekassa", "text": "Zack Mwekassa\n\nZack Mwekassa (born 20 January 1984) is a Congolese boxer and kickboxer who fights in GLORY. he is a former Interim Glory Light Heavyweight Champion\n\nAs of 1 October 2017, he is ranked the #4 light-heavyweight in the world by CombatPress.com. \n\nMwekassa is the son of a chemist and his two brothers are lawyers. In addition to his fighting career, he is trained as a computer network engineer. He and his family were displaced from their native Congo during the Second Congo War that began in 1998.\n\nMwekassa began his professional boxing career at the age of 22 in 2006 in South Africa. In the first 2 years of his career, he amassed an undefeated streak of 8-0 with all but one of the wins coming by way of TKO or KO. He experienced his first losses back-to-back in 2008 and 2009, before going on another 5-0 undefeated streak.\n\nMwekassa began training in South Africa in 2003 with elite kickboxers, including the late Mike Bernardo. His trainers intended him for the K-1 circuit but the opportunities were scarce, so he moved into professional boxing in 2006.\n\nIn 2014, Mwekassa resurrected his interest in kickboxing. He saw GLORY on television and approached the company about fighting for them. He soon found himself scheduled to face popular MMA and kickboxing fighter Pat Barry at . In what many considered a shocking upset, he knocked out Barry with an incredible uppercut in the first round.\n\nMwekassa returned to the Glory ring on November 7, 2014 at . He was part of a four-man, one-night tournament to decide the next Light Heavyweight title contender. Mwekassa started in impressive fashion as he knocked out Brian Collette in the semifinals. In the finals, he faced Saulo Cavalari. After a competitive back-and-forth two rounds, Mwekassa lost in the third round due to a head kick.\n\nMwekassa had a rematch with Cavalari for the vacant Glory Light Heavyweight Championship at on September 19, 2015. He lost the fight via unanimous decision.\n\n\n\n"}
