{"id": "34002112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34002112", "title": "Ahomes", "text": "Ahomes\n\nThe Ahomes were a native people resident around the mouth of the Fuerte River at the time they first came into contact with the Spanish. The Ahomes were brought under Spanish military control and Jesuit religious leadership from 1600 to no later than 1609, and largely were merged into the culture of New Spain after this time.\n\n"}
{"id": "489300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=489300", "title": "Albert Woolson", "text": "Albert Woolson\n\nAlbert Henry Woolson (February 11, 1850 – August 2, 1956) was the last surviving member of the Union Army who served in the American Civil War. He was also the last surviving Civil War veteran on either side whose status is undisputed. At least three men who followed him in death claimed to be Confederate veterans, but one has been debunked and the other two are unverified. The last surviving Union soldier to see combat was James Hard (1841–1953).\n\nWoolson was born in Antwerp, New York, to Willard P. Woolson (1811–1862) and Caroline Baldwin (ca. 1822–unknown). He claimed to be born on February 11, 1847, but his entry in the 1850 United States Census lists him as born in 1850. Entries in the later census records and in the 1905 Minnesota State Census support the conclusion that he was born in 1850.\n\nHis father, Willard Woolson, enlisted in the Union Army. Willard was wounded at the Battle of Shiloh and was transported to an Army hospital in Windom, Minnesota, where he would die of his wounds. Albert and his mother moved to Windom to accompany Willard. Albert enlisted as a drummer boy in Company C, 1st Minnesota Heavy Artillery Regiment on October 10, 1864, becoming the company's drummer. However, the company never saw action, and Albert Woolson was discharged on September 7, 1865.\n\nWoolson returned to Minnesota, where he lived the rest of his life. He was a carpenter and later a member of the Grand Army of the Republic (G.A.R.), a powerful political organization made up of Civil War veterans where he became senior vice commander in chief in 1953.\n\nIn his final days, he lived at 215 East Fifth Street in Duluth, Minnesota. Woolson died at St. Luke's Hospital in Duluth on August 2, 1956, at what was then thought to be the age of 109, of a \"recurring lung congestion condition\". He was twice widowed and was survived by six daughters and two sons. Woolson was buried with full military honors by the National Guard at Park Hill Cemetery.\n\nFollowing his death, President Dwight D. Eisenhower said: \nThe American people have lost the last personal link with the Union Army ... His passing brings sorrow to the hearts of all of us who cherished the memory of the brave men on both sides of the War Between the States. \n\nWoolson and fellow drummer-boy Frank Mayer marched together, both aged 99, in the Memorial Day Parade in May 1949, to lay a wreath at the tomb of General Grant in New York City.\n\n\"Life\" magazine ran a seven-page article upon the death of Albert Woolson, in the August 20, 1956, issue. The article included much information about the G.A.R., with pictures or drawings of several encampments (conventions). Also included are photos of the last three living Confederate soldiers (status and age disputed): William Lundy, 108; Walter Williams, 113; and John Salling, 110.\n\nIn mid-2006, new census research indicated that Albert Woolson was actually only 106 years old, being listed as less than one year old in the 1850 census. Previous research in 1991 had suggested he was only a year younger than claimed (108 instead of 109), although this does not affect his veteran status.\n\nAfter his death, the Grand Army of the Republic was dissolved because Woolson was its last surviving member.\n\nThe 2011–12 \"Minnesota Legislative Manual\" was dedicated to him.\n\nIn 1956 a monument of Woolson was erected in Gettysburg as a memorial to the Grand Army of the Republic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7665456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7665456", "title": "Anatopia", "text": "Anatopia\n\nAnatopia was a land squat in Papenburg, Germany. The site was squatted July 4 1991 and evicted January 7 1995 after a long struggle. It was on a location where the Daimler-Benz automobile company (Mercedes-Benz) intended to build a test track (12 km long, 3 km wide) and became the focus of anti-Mercedes protests throughout Germany. The squatters lived a vegan lifestyle, eating communally every night. \n\n"}
{"id": "266350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266350", "title": "Assyrian people", "text": "Assyrian people\n\nAssyrian people (), or Syriacs (see terms for Syriac Christians), are an ethnic group indigenous to Western Asia. Some of them self-identify as Arameans, or as Chaldeans. Speakers of modern Aramaic as well as the primary languages in their countries of residence, the Assyrian people are Syriac Christians who claim descent from Assyria, one of the oldest civilizations in the world, dating back to 2500 BC in ancient Mesopotamia.\n\nThe tribal areas that form the Assyrian homeland are parts of present-day northern Iraq, southeastern Turkey, northwestern Iran and, more recently, northeastern Syria. The majority have migrated to other regions of the world, including North America, the Levant, Australia, Europe, Russia and the Caucasus during the past century. Emigration was triggered by events such as the Massacres of Diyarbakır, the Assyrian Genocide (concurrent with the Armenian and Greek Genocides) during World War I by the Ottoman Empire and allied Kurdish tribes, the Simele Massacre in Iraq in 1933, the Iranian Revolution of 1979, Arab Nationalist Ba'athist policies in Iraq and Syria, the rise of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and its takeover of most of the Nineveh plains.\n\nAssyrians are predominantly Christian, mostly adhering to the East and West Syrian liturgical rites of Christianity. The churches that constitute the East Syrian rite include the Assyrian Church of the East, Ancient Church of the East, and Chaldean Catholic Church, whereas the churches of the West Syrian rite are the Syriac Orthodox Church and Syriac Catholic Church. Both rites use Classical Syriac as their liturgical language.\n\nMost recently, the post-2003 Iraq War and the Syrian Civil War, which began in 2011, have displaced much of the remaining Assyrian community from their homeland as a result of ethnic and religious persecution at the hands of Islamic extremists. Of the one million or more Iraqis reported by the United Nations to have fled Iraq since the occupation, nearly 40% were Assyrians even though Assyrians accounted for only around 3% of the pre-war Iraqi demography. According to a 2013 report by a Chaldean Syriac Assyrian Popular Council official, it is estimated that only 300,000 Assyrians remain in Iraq.\n\nBecause of the emergence of ISIL and the taking over of much of the Assyrian homeland by the terror group, another major wave of Assyrian displacement has taken place. ISIL was driven out from the Assyrian villages in the Khabour River Valley and the areas surrounding the city of Al-Hasakah in Syria by 2015, and from the Nineveh plains in Iraq by 2017. Since the expulsion of ISIL, the Nineveh plains have been divided into Iraqi and Kurdish-controlled zones, with Assyrian militias on both sides. In Gozarto/Northern Syria, Assyrian groups have been taking part both politically and militarily in the Kurdish-dominated but multiethnic Democratic Federation of Northern Syria project.\n\nAssyria is the homeland of the Assyrian people; it is located in the ancient Near East. In prehistoric times, the region that was to become known as Assyria (and Subartu) was home to Neanderthals such as the remains of those which have been found at the Shanidar Cave. The earliest Neolithic sites in Assyria belonged to the Jarmo culture c. 7100 BC and Tell Hassuna, the centre of the Hassuna culture, c. 6000 BC.\n\nThe history of Assyria begins with the formation of the city of Assur perhaps as early as the 25th century BC. \nThe Assyrian king list records kings dating from the 25th century BC onwards, the earliest being Tudiya, who was a contemporary of Ibrium of Ebla. However, many of these early kings would have been local rulers, and from the late 24th century BC to the early 22nd century BC, they were usually subjects of the Akkadian Empire.\n\nDuring the early Bronze Age period, Sargon of Akkad united all the native Semitic-speaking peoples and the Sumerians of Mesopotamia (including the Assyrians) under the Akkadian Empire (2335–2154 BC). The cities of Assur and Nineveh (modern day Mosul), which was the oldest and largest city of the ancient Assyrian empire, together with a number of other towns and cities, existed as early as the 25th century BC, although they appear to have been Sumerian-ruled administrative centres at this time, rather than independent states. The Sumerians were eventually absorbed into the Akkadian (Assyro-Babylonian) population.\nIn the traditions of the Assyrian Church of the East, they are descended from Abraham's grandson (Dedan son of Jokshan), progenitor of the ancient Assyrians. However, there is no historical basis for the biblical assertion whatsoever; there is no mention in Assyrian records (which date as far back as the 25th century BC). Ashur-uballit I overthrew the Mitanni c. 1365 BC, and the Assyrians benefited from this development by taking control of the eastern portion of Mitanni territory, and later also annexing Hittite, Babylonian, Amorite and Hurrian territories. The Assyrian people, after the fall of the Neo-Assyrian Empire in 609 BC were under the control of the Neo-Babylonian and later the Persian Empire, which consumed the entire Neo-Babylonian or \"Chaldean\" Empire in 539 BC. Assyrians became front line soldiers for the Persian Empire under Xerxes I, playing a major role in the Battle of Marathon under Darius I in 490 BC.\n\nDespite the influx of foreign elements, the presence of Assyrians is confirmed by the worship of the god Ashur; references to the name survive into the 3rd century AD. The Greeks, Parthians, and Romans had a rather low-level of integration with the local population in Mesopotamia, which allowed their cultures to survive. The kingdoms of Osrhoene, Adiabene, Hatra and Assur, which were under Parthian overlordship, had an Assyrian identity.\n\nEmerging in Sumer c. 3500 BC, cuneiform writing began as a system of pictograms. Around 3000 BC, the pictorial representations became simplified and more abstract as the number of characters in use grew smaller. The original Sumerian script was adapted for the writing of the Akkadian (Babylonian and Assyrian) and Hittite languages.\n\nThe Kültepe texts, which were written in Old Assyrian, is the site of discovery of the earliest traces of the Hittite language, and the earliest attestation of any Indo-European language, dated to the 20th century BC. Most of the archaeological evidence is typical of Anatolia rather than of Assyria, but the use of both cuneiform and the dialect is the best indication of Assyrian presence. To date, over 20,000 cuneiform tablets have been recovered from the site.\n\nFrom 1700 BC and onward, the Sumerian language was preserved by the ancient Babylonians and Assyrians only as a liturgical and classical language for religious, artistic and scholarly purposes.\n\nFrom the 1st century BC, Assyria was the theatre of the protracted Roman–Persian Wars. Much of the region would become the Roman province of Assyria from 116 to 118 AD following the conquests of Trajan, but after a Parthian-inspired Assyrian rebellion, the new emperor Hadrian withdrew from Assyria and its neighboring provinces in 118 AD. Following a successful campaign in 197–198, Severus created a new Roman province in this region—Osroene, centred on Edessa. Roman influence in the area came to an end under Jovian in 363, who abandoned the region after concluding a hasty peace agreement with the Sassanians. From the later 2nd century, the Roman Senate included several notable Assyrians, including Tiberius Claudius Pompeianus and Avidius Cassius. \n\nThe Assyrians were Christianized in the first to third centuries in Roman Syria and Roman Assyria. The population of the Sasanian province of Asōristān was a mixed one, composed of Assyrians, Arameans in the far south and the western deserts, and Persians. The Greek element in the cities, still strong during the Parthian Empire, ceased to be ethnically distinct in Sasanian times. The majority of the population were Eastern Aramaic speakers.\n\nAlong with the Arameans, Armenians, Greeks, and Nabataeans, the Assyrians were among the first people to convert to Christianity and spread Eastern Christianity to the Far East. The Council of Seleucia of c. 325 dealt with jurisdictional conflicts among the leading bishops. They were divided by the Nestorian Schism in the 5th century, and from the 8th century, they became a minority religion following the Muslim conquest of Persia.\n\nAt the subsequent Council of Seleucia-Ctesiphon of 410, the Christian communities of Mesopotamia renounced all subjection to Antioch and the \"Western\" bishops and the Bishop of Seleucia-Ctesiphon (modern al-Mada'in) assumed the rank of Catholicos. Whereas Latin and Greek Christian cultures became protected by the Roman and Byzantine Empires, respectively, Assyrian Christianity often found itself marginalized and persecuted.\n\nDuring the 5th century, these schisms divided the church into separate Nestorian and Monophysite denominations which developed distinct dialects. With the rise of Syriac Christianity, eastern Aramaic enjoyed a renaissance as a classical language in the 2nd to 8th centuries, and the modern Assyrian people continue to speak eastern Neo-Aramaic languages. Assyria continued to exist as a geopolitical entity until the Arab-Islamic conquest in the mid-7th century.\n\nThe Assyrians initially experienced some periods of religious and cultural freedom interspersed with periods of severe religious and ethnic persecution after the 7th century Muslim conquest of Persia. Assyrians contributed to Islamic civilizations during the Umayyad and Abbasid Caliphates by translating works of Greek philosophers to Syriac and afterwards to Arabic. They also excelled in philosophy, science (Qusta ibn Luqa, Masawaiyh, Eutychius of Alexandria, and Jabril ibn Bukhtishu) and theology (such as Tatian, Bardaisan, Babai the Great, Nestorius, and Thomas of Marga) and the personal physicians of the Abbasid Caliphs were often Assyrians, such as the long-serving Bukhtishu dynasty. Many scholars of the House of Wisdom were of Assyrian Christian background.\n\nIndigenous Assyrians became second-class citizens (\"dhimmi\") in a greater Arab Islamic state, and those who resisted Arabisation and conversion to Islam were subject to severe religious, ethnic and cultural discrimination, and had certain restrictions imposed upon them. Assyrians were excluded from specific duties and occupations reserved for Muslims, they did not enjoy the same political rights as Muslims, their word was not equal to that of a Muslim in legal and civil matters, as Christians they were subject to payment of a special tax (jizya), they were banned from spreading their religion further or building new churches in Muslim-ruled lands, but were also expected to adhere to the same laws of property, contract and obligation as the Muslim Arabs. They couldn't seek conversion of a Muslim, a non-Muslim man couldn't marry a Muslim woman and the child of such a marriage would be considered Muslim. They couldn't own a Muslim slave and had to wear different clothing from Muslims in order to be distinguishable. In addition to the jizya tax, they were also required to pay the kharaj tax on their land which was heavier than the jizya. However they were ensured protection, given religious freedom and to govern themselves in accordance to their own laws.\n\nAs non-Islamic proselytising was punishable by death under Sharia, the Assyrians were forced into preaching in Transoxiana, Central Asia, India, Mongolia and China where they established numerous churches. The Church of the East was considered to be one of the major Christian powerhouses in the world, alongside Latin Christianity in Europe and the Byzantine Empire.\n\nFrom the 7th century AD onwards Mesopotamia saw a steady influx of Arabs, Kurds and other Iranian peoples, and later Turkic peoples. Assyrians were increasingly marginalized, persecuted, and gradually became a minority in their own homeland. Conversion to Islam as a result of heavy taxation which also resulted in decreased revenue from their rulers. As a result, the new converts migrated to Muslim garrison towns nearby.\n\nAssyrians remained dominant in Upper Mesopotamia as late as the 14th century and the city of Ashur was still occupied by Assyrians during the Islamic period until the mid-14th century when the Muslim Turco-Mongol ruler Timur conducted a religiously motivated massacre against Assyrians. After, there were no records of Assyrians remaining in Ashur according to the archaeological and numismatic record. From this point, the Assyrian population was dramatically reduced in their homeland.\n\nFrom the 19th century, after the rise of nationalism in the Balkans, the Ottomans started viewing Assyrians and other Christians in their eastern front as a potential threat. The Kurdish Emirs sought to consolidate their power by attacking Assyrian communities which were already well-established there. Scholars estimate that tens of thousands of Assyrian in the Hakkari region were massacred in 1843 when Bedr Khan Beg, the emir of Bohtan, invaded their region. After a later massacre in 1846, the Ottomans were forced by the western powers into intervening in the region, and the ensuing conflict destroyed the Kurdish emirates and reasserted the Ottoman power in the area. The Assyrians were subject to the massacres of Diyarbakır soon after.\n\nBeing culturally, ethnically, and linguistically distinct from their Muslim neighbors in the Middle East—the Arabs, Persians, Kurds, Turks—the Assyrians have endured much hardship throughout their recent history as a result of religious and ethnic persecution by these groups.\n\nAfter initially coming under the control of the Seljuk Empire and the Buyid dynasty, the region eventually came under the control of the Mongol Empire after the fall of Baghdad in 1258. The Mongol khans were sympathetic with Christians and did not harm them. The most prominent among them was probably Isa Kelemechi, a diplomat, astrologer, and head of the Christian affairs in Yuan China. He spent some time in Persia under the Ilkhanate. The 14th century massacres of Timur devastated the Assyrian people. Timur's massacres and pillages of all that was Christian drastically reduced their existence. At the end of the reign of Timur, the Assyrian population had almost been eradicated in many places. Toward the end of the thirteenth century, Bar Hebraeus, the noted Assyrian scholar and hierarch, found \"much quietness\" in his diocese in Mesopotamia. Syria’s diocese, he wrote, was \"wasted.\"\n\nThe region was later controlled by the in Iran-based Turkic confederations of the Aq Qoyunlu and Kara Koyunlu. Subsequently, all Assyrians, like with the rest of the ethnicities living in the former Aq Qoyunlu territories, fell into Safavid hands from 1501 and on.\n\nThe Ottomans secured their control over Mesopotamia and Syria in the first half of the 17th century following the Ottoman–Safavid War (1623–39) and the resulting Treaty of Zuhab. Non-Muslims were organised into millets. Syriac Christians, however, were often considered one millet alongside Armenians until the 19th century, when Nestorian, Syriac Orthodox and Chaldeans gained that right as well.\n\nA religious schism amongst the Assyrians took place in the mid to late 16th century. Dissent over the hereditary succession within the Assyrian Church of the East grew until 1552, when a group of Assyrian bishops, from the northern regions of Amid and Salmas, elected a priest, Mar Yohannan Sulaqa, as a rival patriarch. To look for a bishop of metropolitan rank to consecrate him patriarch, Sulaqa traveled to the pope in Rome and entered into communion with the Catholic Church. In 1553 he was consecrated bishop and elevated to the rank of patriarch taking the name of Mar Shimun VIII. He was granted the title of \"Patriarch of the Chaldeans,\" and his church was named the Church of \"Athura and Mosul\".\nMar Shimun VIII Yohannan Sulaqa returned to northern Mesopotamia in the same year and fixed his seat in Amid. Before being put to death by the partisans of the Assyrian Church of the East patriarch of Alqosh, he ordained five metropolitan bishops thus beginning a new ecclesiastical hierarchy: the patriarchal line known as the \"Shimun line\". The area of influence of this patriarchate soon moved from Amid east, fixing the See, after many places, in the isolated Assyrian village of Qochanis. Although this new church eventually drifted away from Rome by 1600 and reentered communion with the Assyrian Church, the archbishop of Amid reinstated relations with Rome in 1672, giving birth to the modern Chaldean Catholic Church.\n\nIn the 1840s many of the Assyrians living in the mountains of Hakkari in the south eastern corner of the Ottoman Empire were massacred by the Kurdish emirs of Hakkari and Bohtan.\n\nAnother major massacre of Assyrians (and Armenians) in the Ottoman Empire occurred between 1894 and 1897 by Turkish troops and their Kurdish allies during the rule of Sultan Abdul Hamid II. The motives for these massacres were an attempt to reassert Pan-Islamism in the Ottoman Empire, resentment at the comparative wealth of the ancient indigenous Christian communities, and a fear that they would attempt to secede from the tottering Ottoman Empire. Assyrians were massacred in Diyarbakir, Hasankeyef, Sivas and other parts of Anatolia, by Sultan Abdul Hamid II. These attacks caused the death of over thousands of Assyrians and the forced \"Ottomanisation\" of the inhabitants of 245 villages. The Turkish troops looted the remains of the Assyrian settlements and these were later stolen and occupied by Kurds. Unarmed Assyrian women and children were raped, tortured and murdered.\n\nThe Assyrians suffered a number of religiously and ethnically motivated massacres throughout the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries AD, culminating in the large scale Hamidian massacres of unarmed men, women and children by Muslim Turks and Kurds in the late 19th century at the hands of the Ottoman Empire and its associated (largely Kurdish and Arab) militias, which further greatly reduced numbers, particularly in southeastern Turkey.\n\nThe most significant recent persecution against the Assyrian population was the Assyrian genocide which occurred during the First World War. Between 275,000 and 300,000 Assyrians were estimated to have been slaughtered by the armies of the Ottoman Empire and their Kurdish allies, totalling up to two-thirds of the entire Assyrian population.\n\nThis led to a large-scale migration of Turkish-based Assyrian people into countries such as Syria, Iran, and Iraq (where they were to suffer further violent assaults at the hands of the Arabs and Kurds), as well as other neighbouring countries in and around the Middle East such as Armenia, Georgia and Russia.\n\nIn reaction to the Assyrian Genocide and lured by British and Russian promises of an independent nation, the Assyrians led by Agha Petros and Malik Khoshaba of the Bit-Tyari tribe, fought alongside the Allies against Ottoman forces in an Assyrian war of independence. Despite being heavily outnumbered and outgunned the Assyrians fought successfully, scoring a number of victories over the Turks and Kurds. This situation continued until their Russian allies left the war, and Armenian resistance broke, leaving the Assyrians surrounded, isolated and cut off from lines of supply. The sizable Assyrian presence in south eastern Anatolia which had endured for over four millennia was thus reduced to no more than 15,000 by the end of World War I.\n\nThe majority of Assyrians living in what is today modern Turkey were forced to flee to either Syria or Iraq after the Turkish victory during the Turkish War of Independence. In 1932, Assyrians refused to become part of the newly formed state of Iraq and instead demanded their recognition as a nation within a nation. The Assyrian leader Shimun XXI Eshai asked the League of Nations to recognize the right of the Assyrians to govern the area known as the \"Assyrian triangle\" in northern Iraq. During the French mandate period, some Assyrians, fleeing ethnic cleansings in Iraq during the Simele massacre, established numerous villages along the Khabur River during the 1930s.\n\nThe Assyrian Levies were founded by the British in 1928, with ancient Assyrian military rankings such as Rab-shakeh, Rab-talia and Tartan, being revived for the first time in millennia for this force. The Assyrians were prized by the British rulers for their fighting qualities, loyalty, bravery and discipline, and were used to help the British put down insurrections among the Arabs and Kurds. During World War II, eleven Assyrian companies saw action in Palestine and another four served in Cyprus. The Parachute Company was attached to the Royal Marine Commando and were involved in fighting in Albania, Italy and Greece. The Assyrian Levies played a major role in subduing the pro-Nazi Iraqi forces at the battle of Habbaniya in 1941.\n\nHowever, this cooperation with the British was viewed with suspicion by some leaders of the newly formed Kingdom of Iraq. The tension reached its peak shortly after the formal declaration of independence when hundreds of Assyrian civilians were slaughtered during the Simele Massacre by the Iraqi Army in August 1933. The events lead to the expulsion of Shimun XXI Eshai the Catholicos Patriarch of the Assyrian Church of the East to the United States where resided until his death in 1975.\nThe period from the 1940s through to 1963 saw a period of respite for the Assyrians. The regime of President Abd al-Karim Qasim in particular saw the Assyrians accepted into mainstream society. Many urban Assyrians became successful businessmen, others were well represented in politics and the military, their towns and villages flourished undisturbed, and Assyrians came to excel, and be over represented in sports.\n\nThe Ba'ath Party seized power in Iraq and Syria in 1963, introducing laws aimed at suppressing the Assyrian national identity via arabization policies. The giving of traditional Assyrian names was banned and Assyrian schools, political parties, churches and literature were repressed. Assyrians were heavily pressured into identifying as \"Iraqi/Syrian Christians\". Assyrians were not recognized as an ethnic group by the governments and they fostered divisions among Assyrians along religious lines (e.g. Assyrian Church of the East vs. Chaldean Catholic Church vs Syriac Orthodox Church).\n\nIn response to Baathist persecution, the Assyrians of the Zowaa movement within the Assyrian Democratic Movement took up armed struggle against the Iraqi government in 1982 under the leadership of Yonadam Kanna, and then joined up with the Iraqi-Kurdistan Front in the early 1990s. Yonadam Kanna in particular was a target of the Saddam Hussein Ba'ath government for many years.\n\nThe Anfal campaign of 1986–1989 in Iraq, which was intended to target Kurdish opposition, resulted in 2,000 Assyrians being murdered through its gas campaigns. Over 31 towns and villages, 25 Assyrian monasteries and churches were razed to the ground. Some Assyrians were murdered, others were deported to large cities, and their lands and homes then being appropriated by Arabs and Kurds.\n\nSince the 2003 Iraq War social unrest and chaos have resulted in the unprovoked persecution of Assyrians in Iraq, mostly by Islamic extremists, (both Shia and Sunni) and Kurdish nationalists (ex. Dohuk Riots of 2011 aimed at Assyrians & Yazidis). In places such as Dora, a neighborhood in southwestern Baghdad, the majority of its Assyrian population has either fled abroad or to northern Iraq, or has been murdered. Islamic resentment over the United States' occupation of Iraq, and incidents such as the \"Jyllands-Posten\" Muhammad cartoons and the Pope Benedict XVI Islam controversy, have resulted in Muslims attacking Assyrian communities. Since the start of the Iraq war, at least 46 churches and monasteries have been bombed.\n\nIn recent years, the Assyrians in northern Iraq and northeast Syria have become the target of extreme unprovoked Islamic terrorism. As a result, Assyrians have taken up arms alongside other groups (such as the Kurds, Turcomans and Armenians) in response to unprovoked attacks by Al Qaeda, the Islamic State (ISIL), Nusra Front and other terrorist Islamic Fundamentalist groups. In 2014 Islamic terrorists of ISIL attacked Assyrian towns and villages in the Assyrian Homeland of northern Iraq, together with cities such as Mosul and Kirkuk which have large Assyrian populations. There have been reports of atrocities committed by ISIL terrorists since, including; beheadings, crucifixions, child murders, rape, forced conversions, Ethnic Cleansing, robbery, and extortion in the form of illegal taxes levied upon non Muslims. Assyrians in Iraq have responded by forming armed militias to defend their territories.\n\nThe \"Dawronoye\" modernization movement has a growing influence on Assyrian identity in the 21st century. It is particularly influential in Syria, where the Syriac Union Party (SUP) has become a major political actor in the Democratic Federation of Northern Syria. In August 2016, the \"Ourhi Centre\" in the city of Zalin was started by the Assyrian community, to educate teachers in order to make Syriac an optional language of instruction in public schools, which then started with the 2016/17 academic year. With that academic year, states the Rojava Education Committee, \"three curriculums have replaced the old one, to include teaching in three languages: Kurdish, Arabic and Assyrian.\" Associated with the SUP is the Syriac Military Council, an Assyrian militia operating in Syria, established in January 2013 to protect and stand up for the national rights of Assyrians in Syria as well as working together with the other communities in Syria to change the current government of Bashar al-Assad. Since 2015 it is a component of the Syrian Democratic Forces.\n\nThe Assyrian homeland constitutes northern Iraq, southeastern Turkey, northwestern Iran and, much recently, northeastern Syria. This includes the ancient cities of Nineveh (Mosul), Nuhadra (Dohuk), Arrapha/Beth Garmai (Kirkuk), Amida (Diyarbakir), Edessa/Urhoy (Urfa), Harran, Nisabina/Zalin (Nusaybin/Qamishli), Arbela (Erbil), and also the Christianized settlements from the 5th century AD after the spread of Islam, such as Urmia in Iran, Hakkari (Yuksekova, Çukurca and Semdinli), Uludere and Tur Abdin (Midyat and Kafro) in Turkey, among others. Some of the cities are presently under Kurdish control.\n\nHakkari's Assyrian population was ethnically cleansed during the Assyrian Genocide of the First World War. Those who survived fled to unaffected areas of Assyrian settlement in Northern Iraq, with others settling in Iraqi cities to the south. Though many also went to neighboring countries in and around the Caucasus and Middle East like Armenia, Syria, Georgia, southern Russia, Lebanon, Jordan.\n\nIn ancient times, Akkadian-speaking Assyrians have existed in what is now Syria, Jordan, Israel and Lebanon, among other modern countries, due to the sprawl of the Neo-Assyrian empire in the region. Though recent settlement of Christian Assyrians in Qamishli, Al-Hasakah, Al-Qahtaniyah, Al Darbasiyah, Al-Malikiyah, Amuda, Tel Tamer and a few other small towns in Al-Hasakah Governorate in Syria, occurred in the early 1930s, when they fled from Northern Iraq after they were targeted and slaughtered during the Simele massacre. \n\nThe Assyrians in Syria did not have Syrian citizenship and title to their land until late 1940s. Sizable Assyrian populations only remain in Syria, where an estimated 400,000 Assyrians live, and in Iraq, where an estimated 300,000 Assyrians live. In Iran and Turkey, only small populations remain, with only 20,000 Assyrians in Iran, and a small but growing Assyrian population in Turkey, where 25,000 Assyrians live. In Tur Abdin, a traditional center of Assyrian culture, there are only 2,500 Assyrians left. Down from 50,000 in the 1960 census, but up from 1,000 in 1992. This sharp decline is due to an intense conflict between Turkey and the PKK in the 1980s. However, there are an estimated 25,000 Assyrians in all of Turkey, with most living in Istanbul. Most Assyrians currently reside in the West due to the centuries of persecution by the neighboring Muslims.\n\nThere are three main Assyrian subgroups: Eastern, Western, Chaldean. These subdivisions are only partially overlapping linguistically, historicalally, culturalally, and religiously.\nDue to their Christian faith and ethnicity, the Assyrians have been persecuted since their adoption of Christianity. During the reign of Yazdegerd I, Christians in Persia were viewed with suspicion as potential Roman subversives, resulting in persecutions while at the same time promoting Nestorian Christianity as a buffer between the Churches of Rome and Persia. Persecutions and attempts to impose Zoroastrianism continued during the reign of Yazdegerd II.\n\nDuring the eras of Mongol rule under Genghis Khan and Timur, there was indiscriminate slaughter of tens of thousands of Assyrians and destruction of the Assyrian population of northwestern Iran and central and northern Iran.\n\nMore recent persecutions since the 19th century include the Massacres of Badr Khan, the Massacres of Diyarbakır (1895), the Adana massacre, the Assyrian genocide, the Simele Massacre, and the al-Anfal campaign.\n\nSince the Assyrian genocide, many Assyrians have left the Middle East entirely for a more safe and comfortable life in the countries of the Western world. As a result of this, the Assyrian population in the Middle East has decreased dramatically. As of today there are more Assyrians in the diaspora than in their homeland. The largest Assyrian diaspora communities are found in Sweden (100,000), Germany (100,000), the United States (80,000), and in Australia (46,000).\n\nBy ethnic percentage, the largest Assyrian diaspora communities are located in Södertälje in Stockholm County, Sweden, and in Fairfield City in Sydney, Australia, where they are the leading ethnic group in the suburbs of Fairfield, Fairfield Heights, Prairiewood and Greenfield Park. There is also a sizable Assyrian community in Melbourne, Australia (Broadmeadows, Meadow Heights and Craigieburn) In the United States, Assyrians are mostly found in Chicago (Niles and Skokie), Detroit (Sterling Heights, and West Bloomfield Township), Phoenix, Modesto (Stanislaus County) and Turlock.\n\nFurthermore, small Assyrian communities are found in San Diego, Sacramento and Fresno in the United States, Toronto in Canada and also in London, UK (London Borough of Ealing). In Germany, pocket-sized Assyrian communities are scattered throughout Munich, Frankfurt, Stuttgart, Berlin and Wiesbaden. In Paris, France, the commune of Sarcelles has a small number of Assyrians. Assyrians in the Netherlands mainly live in the east of the country, in the province of Overijssel. In Russia, small groups of Assyrians mostly reside in Krasnodar Kray and Moscow.\n\nTo note, the Assyrians residing in California and Russia tend to be from Iran, whilst those in Chicago and Sydney are predominantly Iraqi Assyrians. More recently, Syrian Assyrians are growing in size in Sydney after a huge influx of new arrivals in 2016, who were granted asylum under the Federal Government's special humanitarian intake. The Assyrians in Detroit are primarily Chaldean speakers, who also originate from Iraq. Assyrians in such European countries as Sweden and Germany would usually be Turoyo-speakers or Western Assyrians.\n\nAssyrians of the Middle East and diaspora employ different terms for self-identification based on conflicting beliefs in the origin and identity of their respective communities. In certain areas of the Assyrian homeland, identity within a community depends on a person's village of origin (see List of Assyrian villages) or Christian denomination rather than their ethnic commonality, for instance Chaldean Catholics preferring to be called Chaldeans instead of Assyrians, or a Syriac Orthodox Christian preferring to be called a Syriac.\n\nDuring the 19th century English archaeologist Austen Henry Layard believed that the Syriac Christian communities were descended from the ancient Assyrians, a view that was also shared by William Ainger Wigram. Today, Assyrians and other minority ethnic groups in the Middle East, feel pressure to identify as \"Arabs\", \"Turks\" and \"Kurds\".\n\nIn addition, Western Media often makes no mention of any ethnic identity of the Christian people of the region and simply call them Christians, Iraqi Christians, Iranian Christians, Syrian Christians, and Turkish Christians, a label rejected by Assyrians.\n\nBelow are terms commonly used by Assyrians to self-identify:\n\n\nAs early as the 8th century BC Luwian and Cilician subject rulers referred to their Assyrian overlords as \"Syrian\", a western Indo-European corruption of the original term \"Assyrian\".\nThis version of the name took hold in the Hellenic lands to the west of the old Assyrian Empire, thus during Greek Seleucid rule from 323 BC the name \"Assyria\" was altered to \"Syria\", and this term was also applied to Aramea to the west which had been an Assyrian colony. When the Seleucids lost control of Assyria to the Parthians they retained the corrupted term (Syria), applying it to ancient Aramea, while the Parthians called Assyria \"Assuristan,\" a Parthian form of the original name. It is from this period that the Syrian vs Assyrian controversy arises. Today it is accepted by the majority of scholars that the Medieval, Renaissance and Victorian term \"Syriac\" when used to describe the indigenous Christians of Mesopotamia and its immediate surrounds in effect means \"Assyrian\".\n\nThe modern terminological problem goes back to colonial times, but it became more acute in 1946, when with the independence of Syria, the adjective \"Syrian\" referred to an independent state. The controversy isn't restricted to exonyms like English \"Assyrian\" vs. \"Aramaean\", but also applies to self-designation in Neo-Aramaic, the minority \"Aramaean\" faction endorses both \"Sūryāyē\" and \"Ārāmayē\" , while the majority \"Assyrian\" faction insists on \"Āṯūrāyē\" but also accepts \"Sūryāyē\".\nThe question of ethnic identity and self-designation is sometimes connected to the scholarly debate on the etymology of \"Syria\". The question has a long history of academic controversy, but majority mainstream opinion currently strongly favours that \"Syria\" is indeed ultimately derived from the Assyrian term Aššūrāyu.\n\nRudolf Macuch points out that the Eastern Neo-Aramaic press initially used the term \"Syrian\" (\"suryêta\") and only much later, with the rise of nationalism, switched to \"Assyrian\" (\"atorêta\"). According to Tsereteli, however, a Georgian equivalent of \"Assyrians\" appears in ancient Georgian, Armenian and Russian documents. This correlates with the theory of the nations to the East of Mesopotamia knew the group as Assyrians, while to the West, beginning with Greek influence, the group was known as Syrians. Syria being a Greek corruption of Assyria.\n\nThe debate appears to have been settled by the discovery of the Çineköy inscription in favour of Syria being derived from Assyria.\n\nThe \"Çineköy inscription\" is a Hieroglyphic Luwian-Phoenician bilingual, uncovered from Çineköy, Adana Province, Turkey (ancient Cilicia), dating to the 8th century BC. Originally published by Tekoglu and Lemaire (2000), it was more recently the subject of a 2006 paper published in the Journal of Near Eastern Studies, in which the author, Robert Rollinger, lends support to the age-old debate of the name \"Syria\" being derived from \"Assyria\" (see Etymology of Syria).\n\nThe object on which the inscription is found is a monument belonging to Urikki, vassal king of Hiyawa (i.e., Cilicia), dating to the eighth century BC. In this monumental inscription, Urikki made reference to the relationship between his kingdom and his Assyrian overlords. The Luwian inscription reads \"Sura/i\" whereas the Phoenician translation reads \"’ŠR\" or \"Ashur\" which, according to Rollinger (2006), \"settles the problem once and for all\".\n\nAssyrian culture is largely influenced by Christianity. Main festivals occur during religious holidays such as Easter and Christmas. There are also secular holidays such as Kha b-Nisan (vernal equinox).\n\nPeople often greet and bid relatives farewell with a kiss on each cheek and by saying \"\" \"Shlama/Shlomo lokh\", which means: \"Peace be upon you\" in Neo-Aramaic. Others are greeted with a handshake with the right hand only; according to Middle Eastern customs, the left hand is associated with evil. Similarly, shoes may not be left facing up, one may not have their feet facing anyone directly, whistling at night is thought to waken evil spirits, etc.\n\nThere are many Assyrian customs that are common in other Middle Eastern cultures. A parent will often place an eye pendant on their baby to prevent \"an evil eye being cast upon it\". Spitting on anyone or their belongings is seen as a grave insult. Assyrians are endogamous, meaning they generally marry within their own ethnic group, although exogamous marriages are not perceived as a taboo, not unless if the foreigner is of a different religious background, especially a Muslim.\n\nThe Neo-Aramaic languages, which are in the Semitic branch of the Afroasiatic language family, ultimately descend from Late Old Eastern Aramaic, the lingua franca in the later phase of the Neo-Assyrian Empire, which displaced the East Semitic Assyrian dialect of Akkadian and Sumerian. Aramaic was the language of commerce, trade and communication and became the vernacular language of Assyria in classical antiquity. By the 1st century AD, Akkadian was extinct, although its influence on contemporary Eastern Neo-Aramaic languages spoken by Assyrians is significant and some loaned vocabulary still survives in these languages to this day.\n\nTo the native speaker, \"Syriac\" is usually called \"Surayt\", \"Soureth\", \"Suret\" or a similar regional variant. A wide variety of languages and dialects exist, including Assyrian Neo-Aramaic, Chaldean Neo-Aramaic, and Turoyo. Minority dialects include Senaya and Bohtan Neo-Aramaic, which are both near extinction. All are classified as Neo-Aramaic languages and are written using Syriac script, a derivative of the ancient Aramaic script. Jewish varieties such as Lishanid Noshan, Lishán Didán and Lishana Deni, written in the Hebrew script, are spoken by Assyrian Jews.\n\nThere is a considerable amount of mutual intelligibility between Assyrian Neo-Aramaic, Chaldean Neo-Aramaic, Senaya, Lishana Deni and Bohtan Neo-Aramaic. Therefore, these \"languages\" would generally be considered to be dialects of Assyrian Neo-Aramaic rather than separate languages. The Jewish Aramaic languages of Lishan Didan and Lishanid Noshan share a partial intelligibility with these varieties. The mutual intelligibility between the aforementioned languages and Turoyo is, depending on the dialect, limited to partial, and may be asymmetrical.\n\nBeing stateless, Assyrians are typically multilingual, speaking both their native language and learning those of the societies they reside in. While many Assyrians have fled from their traditional homeland recently, a substantial number still reside in Arabic-speaking countries speaking Arabic alongside the Neo-Aramaic languages and is also spoken by many Assyrians in the diaspora. The most commonly spoken languages by Assyrians in the diaspora are English, German and Swedish. Historically many Assyrians also spoke Turkish, Armenian, Azeri, Kurdish, and Persian and a smaller number of Assyrians that remain in Iran, Turkey (Istanbul and Tur Abdin) and Armenia still do today. Many loanwords from the aforementioned languages also exist in the Neo-Aramaic languages, with the Iranian languages and Turkish being the greatest influences overall. Only Turkey is reported to be experiencing a population increase of Assyrians in the four countries constituting their historical homeland, largely consisting of Assyrian refugees from Syria and a smaller number of Assyrians returning from the diaspora in Europe.\n\nAssyrians predominantly use the Syriac script, which is written from right to left. It is one of the Semitic abjads directly descending from the Aramaic alphabet and shares similarities with the Phoenician, Hebrew and the Arabic alphabets. It has 22 letters representing consonants, three of which can be also used to indicate vowels. The vowel sounds are supplied either by the reader's memory or by optional diacritic marks. Syriac is a cursive script where some, but not all, letters connect within a word. It was used to write the Syriac language from the 1st century AD.\n\nThe oldest and classical form of the alphabet is the ' script. Although ʾEsṭrangēlā is no longer used as the main script for writing Syriac, it has received some revival since the 10th century, and it has been added to the Unicode Standard in September, 1999. The East Syriac dialect is usually written in the ' form of the alphabet, which is often translated as \"contemporary\", reflecting its use in writing modern Neo-Aramaic. The West Syriac dialect is usually written in the \"\" form of the alphabet. Most of the letters are clearly derived from ʾEsṭrangēlā, but are simplified, flowing lines.\n\nFurthermore, for practical reasons, Assyrian people would also use the Latin alphabet, especially in social media.\n\nAssyrians belong to various Christian denominations such as the Assyrian Church of the East, with an estimated 400,000 members, the Chaldean Catholic Church, with about 600,000 members, and the Syriac Orthodox Church \"(ʿIdto Suryoyto Triṣaṯ Šuḇḥo)\", which has between 1,000,000 and 4,000,000 members around the world (only some of whom are Assyrians), the Ancient Church of the East with some 100,000 members. A small minority of Assyrians accepted the Protestant Reformation in the 20th century, possibly due to British influences, and is now organized in the Assyrian Evangelical Church, the Assyrian Pentecostal Church and other Protestant Assyrian groups. While Assyrians are predominantly Christian, an echoing minority, particularly those raised in the west, tend to be irreligious or atheistic in nature.\n\nMany members of the following churches consider themselves Assyrian. Ethnic identities are often deeply intertwined with religion, a legacy of the Ottoman Millet system.\nThe group is traditionally characterized as adhering to various churches of Syriac Christianity and speaking Neo-Aramaic languages. It is subdivided into:\nFor obvious reasons the Chaldean Catholics who follow the East Syrian Rite and were originally members of the historical Church of the East are not Nestorian in theology, a designation which the Church of the East itself denied.\n\nBaptism and First Communion are celebrated extensively, similar to a Brit Milah or Bar Mitzvah in Jewish communities. After a death, a gathering is held three days after burial to celebrate the ascension to heaven of the dead person, as of Jesus; after seven days another gathering commemorates their death. A close family member wears only black clothes for forty days and nights, or sometimes a year, as a sign of mourning.\n\nAssyrian music is a combination of traditional folk music and western contemporary music genres, namely pop, but also rap and recently, EDM. Instruments traditionally used by Assyrians include the zurna and davula, but has expanded to include guitars, pianos, violins, synthesizers (keyboards and electronic drums), and other instruments.\n\nSome well known Assyrian singers in modern times are Ashur Bet Sargis, Sargon Gabriel, Evin Agassi, Janan Sawa, Juliana Jendo, and Linda George. Assyrian artists that traditionally sing in other languages include Melechesh, Timz and Aril Brikha. Assyrian-Australian band Azadoota performs its songs in the Assyrian language whilst using a western style of instrumentation.\n\nThe first international Aramaic Music Festival was held in Lebanon in August 2008 for Assyrian people internationally.\n\nAssyrians have numerous traditional dances which are performed mostly for special occasions such as weddings. Assyrian dance is a blend of both ancient indigenous and general near eastern elements. Assyrian folk dances are mainly made up of circle dances that are performed in a line, which may be straight, curved, or both – The most common form of Assyrian folk dance is khigga, which is routinely danced as the bride and groom are welcomed into the wedding reception. Most of the circle dances allow unlimited number of participants, with the exception of the \"Sabre Dance\", which require three at most. Assyrian dances would vary from weak to strong, depending on the mood and tempo of a song.\n\nAssyrian festivals tend to be closely associated with their Christian faith, of which Easter is the most prominent of the celebrations. Members of the Assyrian Church of the East, Chaldean Catholic Church and Syriac Catholic Church follow the Gregorian calendar and as a result celebrate Easter on a Sunday between March 22 and April 25 inclusively. However, members of the Syriac Orthodox Church and Ancient Church of the East celebrate Easter on a Sunday between April 4 and May 8 inclusively on the Gregorian calendar (March 22 and April 25 on the Julian calendar). During Lent, Assyrians are encouraged to fast for 50 days from meat and any other foods which are animal based.\n\nAssyrians celebrate a number of festivals unique to their culture and traditions as well as religious ones:\n\nAssyrians also practice unique marriage ceremonies. The rituals performed during weddings are derived from many different elements from the past 3,000 years. An Assyrian wedding traditionally lasted a week. Today, weddings in the Assyrian homeland usually last 2–3 days; in the Assyrian diaspora they last 1–2 days.\n\nAssyrian clothing varies from village to village. Clothing is usually blue, red, green, yellow, and purple; these colors are also used as embroidery on a white piece of clothing. Decoration is lavish in Assyrian costumes, and sometimes involves jewellery. The conical hats of traditional Assyrian dress have changed little over millennia from those worn in ancient Mesopotamia, and until the 19th and early 20th centuries the ancient Mesopotamian tradition of braiding or platting of hair, beards and moustaches was still commonplace.\n\nAssyrian cuisine is similar to other Middle Eastern cuisines. It is rich in grain, meat, potato, cheese, bread and tomato. Typically, rice is served with every meal, with a stew poured over it. Tea is a popular drink, and there are several dishes of desserts, snacks, and beverages. Alcoholic drinks such as wine and wheat beer are organically produced and drank.\n\nLate 20th century DNA analysis conducted by Cavalli-Sforza, Paolo Menozzi and Alberto Piazza, \"shows that Assyrians have a distinct genetic profile that distinguishes their population from any other population.\" Genetic analysis of the Assyrians of Persia demonstrated that they were \"closed\" with little \"intermixture\" with the Muslim Persian population and that an individual Assyrian's genetic makeup is relatively close to that of the Assyrian population as a whole. \"The genetic data are compatible with historical data that religion played a major role in maintaining the Assyrian population's separate identity during the Christian era\".\n\nIn a 2006 study of the Y chromosome DNA of six regional Armenian populations, including, for comparison, Assyrians and Syrians, researchers found that, \"the Semitic populations (Assyrians and Syrians) are very distinct from each other according to both [comparative] axes. This difference supported also by other methods of comparison points out the weak genetic affinity between the two populations with different historical destinies.\" A 2008 study on the genetics of \"old ethnic groups in Mesopotamia,\" including 340 subjects from seven ethnic communities (\"Assyrian, Jewish, Zoroastrian, Armenian, Turkmen, the Arab peoples in Iran, Iraq, and Kuwait\") found that Assyrians were homogeneous with respect to all other ethnic groups sampled in the study, regardless of religious affiliation.\n\nIn a 2011 study focusing on the genetics of Marsh Arabs of Iraq, researchers identified Y chromosome haplotypes shared by Marsh Arabs, Iraqis, and Assyrians, \"supporting a common local background.\" In a 2017 study focusing on the genetics of Northern Iraqi populations, it was found that Iraqi Assyrians and Iraqi Yazidis clustered together, but away from the other Northern Iraqi populations analyzed in the study, and largely in between the West Asian and Southeastern European populations. According to the study, \"contemporary Assyrians and Yazidis from Northern Iraq may in fact have a stronger continuity with the original genetic stock of the Mesopotamian people, which possibly provided the basis for the ethnogenesis of various subsequent Near Eastern populations\".\n\nThe most common Y-DNA haplogroups among Assyrians is T-M184, at 41.5%, which is frequent in Middle Eastern Jews, Georgians, Druze and Somalians. In a DNA test comprising 48 Assyrian male subjects from Iran, the Y-DNA haplogroups J-M304, found in its greatest concentration in the Arabian peninsula, and the Indo European-linked R1b (specifically R-M269), were also frequent at 29.2% each. In other tests taken, R1b has reached 40%, making it a major haplogroup among Assyrians. The R1b was brought from the Pontic–Caspian steppe in Eurasia, a region hypothesised to be the Proto-Indo-European homeland, where the R1b bearers went south over the Caucasus mountains via Anatolia and into Mesopotamia at around 6,000 B.P.\n\nAccording to a 2006 study of Assyrian males from Iraq, Iran and Turkey J-M267 measured at 28.6%, 16.1% and 20.0%, respectively, which is significant among Semitic people of Western Asia, North Africa and the Horn of Africa and the second most common haplogroup among Assyrians. This was followed by J2 at 13.4%, which is commonly found in the Fertile Crescent, the Caucasus, Anatolia, Italy, coastal Mediterranean, and the Iranian plateau. \n\nOther Y-DNA haplogroups included were Afro Asiatic-linked E1b1b (11.2%), G-M201 (8.9%), which is significantly found in the Caucasus and Georgia, and the Proto Indo European-linked R1a (8.3%). \n\nThe most frequent occurring mtDNA haplogroups were H (the most common mtDNA haplogroup in Europe), J (found highly in the Arabian Peninsula) and U (frequent in Europe, Western Asia and North Africa). K (significant among Ashkenazi Jewish people) and T (found in the Caucasus, Russia, central and eastern Europe) also occurred in Assyrians, albeit scarcely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1151718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1151718", "title": "Bapu (film director)", "text": "Bapu (film director)\n\nSattiraju Lakshmi Narayana (15 December 1933 – 31 August 2014), known professionally as Bapu, was an Indian film director, painter, illustrator, cartoonist, screenwriter, music artist, and designer known for his works in Telugu cinema, and bollywood.\nIn 2013, he was awarded the Padma Shri, for his contribution to Indian art and cinema.\n\nBapu's directorial venture \"Saakshi\" was showcased at \"Tashkent International film festival\" in 1968. \"Seeta Kalyanam\" was screened at the BFI London Film Festival, Chicago International Film Festival, San Reno and Denver International Film Festivals in 1978, and is part of the course at the British Film Institute.\n\n\"Tyagayya\" (1981) and \"Pelli Pustakam\" (1991) were premiered at the Indian Panorama of the International Film Festival of India. Bapu's 2011 film, \"Sri Rama Rajyam\", had a special screening at International Film Festival of India on 28 November 2011.\n\nHe has garnered two National Honors, two National Film Awards, seven state Nandi Awards, two Filmfare Awards South best Telugu director, and a Filmfare Lifetime Achievement Award – South for the year 2012. In 1996, he appeared in the Doordarshan Documentary \"Eminent Cartoonists of India\", \nand was awarded Life Time Achievement from Indian Institute of Cartoonists in 2001. He gained international recognition through his art works viz., \"Bapu Bomma\", \"The Navarasas\", and the \"Indian Dances\" etc., which were held at the National Film Theatre, London, in 1978 and at the innumerable Telugu Conferences in the United States. He has worked as a graphic artist for \"J Walter Thomson\", \"Efficient Publicities\" and \"F. D. Stewarts\", Chennai.\n\nIn 1964, he was a delegate at the UNESCO sponsored seminar in Bangalore on \"Children's Books\". The same year, he gave demonstrations for the training course programme on book illustrations and cover designs sponsored by UNESCO in Chennai. In the 1960s he has served as art Consultant for Ford Foundation sponsored \"The Southern Language Book Trust\". He has designed and illustrated several books for leading publishers in South India out of which, five received Government Awards. He has also done the same for innumerable works drawn from the puranas and folklore.\n\nBapu was born on 15 December 1933, in Narsapur, in present-day West Godavari district, Andhra Pradesh, India to Sattiraju Venugopala Rao and Suryakantam. He has worked as a political cartoonist for the newspaper \"Andhra Patrika\" in 1945. He holds B.Com (1953) and BL (1955) from University of Madras.\n\nBapu's paintings focus on Hindu mythological characters, and he has painted the Hindu epic Ramayana as a pictorial story. His character portrayals, such as Shiva, Bhima, Duryodhana, look distinctly male with wide chests, large jaws and large biceps; while Krishna and Rama are more feminine in build.\n\nHis paintings have decorated the cover pages of many magazines in India and Abroad. Telugu Naadi Magazine published from USA for Telugu audience have published Bapu's great paintings. Bapu also later served on their advisory board to guide and have an outstanding content for the magazine that catered to Telugu people.\n\nBapu's family was staying in Madras and in 1942, when the Japanese bombed Madras, there was a panic exodus and Bapu's family moved to Narasapuram and stayed there till 1945, when the Second World War ended. Bapu studied in Taylor High School, Narasapuram during these years.\n\nMullapudi Venkataramana's father, who was working as a Sub-Registrar was posted at Narasapuram during the years 1942-45 and so, Venkataramana also studied in Taylor high School, Narasapram, during those years. They were classmates during those three years and that is how their association started. They continued schooling at Kesari High School, Madras. Ramana's first short story 'Amma Maata Vinakapote' was published in 1945 in 'Bala', a children's magazine published by Radio Annayya (Nyayapathi Raghava Rao), he was 14 then. Bapu illustrated the story. That was the beginning of their career as a writer-producer -illustrator- filmmaker duo\".\n\nStarted as an illustrator-story writer team and then turning into a film-director-writer duo, they have contributed immensely to the enrichment of Telugu cultural ethos through literature and cinema. When one mentions Bapu, then one is bound to mention Ramana's name too and vice versa. The most notable achievement in his movie making is his success in capturing the nativity of Telugu people and translating it great on-screen visuals.\n\nVentures like \"Sampoorna Ramayanam\", \"Ramanjaneya Yuddham\" and \"Seeta Kalyanam\" have been the milestones of Telugu cinema, while historical films like \"Thyagayya\", \"Bhakta Kannappa\" and \"Shreenatha kavisarvabhouma\" have been hugely successful. Bapu-Ramana combination has created movie magic on the large screen with some of the path breaking films in Telugu cinema and are ever remembered for films like \"Radha kalyanam\", \"Velugu needalu\", \"Bharyabhartalu\", \"Bhogimanta\", \"Mutyala Muggu\", 'Sakshi\", \"Mr. Pellam', \"Pelli Pustakam\". The duo directed Mana Voori Pandavulu (1978) which won the Filmfare Award for Best Film - Telugu.\n\nHe worked with Satyam Sankaramanchi and drew 101 pictures for each of the stories in \"Amaravati Kathalu\". Bapu is one-half of the Bapu-Ramana (Mullapudi Venkata Ramana) pair that made movies in Telugu cinema. Ramana provided an able foil, providing script and dialogue to suit Bapu's visuals. Bapu collaborated with Ramana to give life to Ramana's child prodigy character \"Budugu\" in the form of appealing caricatures.\n\nKnown for introducing Anil Kapoor to Indian cinema, Bapu has directed Hindi films such as \"Hum Paanch\", \"Prem Pratigyaa\",\"Seeta Swayamvar\", \"Anokhi Bhakt\", \"Bezubaan\", \"Woh Saat Din\", \"Pyari Behna\", \"Mohobbat\", \"Mera Dharam\", and \"Diljala\". He has also directed a Tamil film Neeti Devan Mayagugiran.\n\nBapu had suffered heart attacks many times throughout his career. He was admitted into a hospital at Chennai in mid August 2014. He suffered from a cardiac arrest on 31 August 2014, and died later on the same day.\n\nHe was given a state funeral by the Government of Tamilnadu.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18114919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18114919", "title": "Birth of public radio broadcasting", "text": "Birth of public radio broadcasting\n\nThe birth of public radio broadcasting is credited to Lee de Forest who transmitted the world’s first public broadcast in New York City on January 13, 1910. This broadcast featured the voices of Enrico Caruso and other Metropolitan Opera stars. Members of the public and the press used earphones to listen to the broadcast in several locations throughout the city. This marked the beginning of what would become nearly universal wireless radio communication. \n\n A 1907 Lee De Forest company advertisement said, \n\nSeveral years later, on January 13, 1910, the first public radio broadcast was an experimental transmission of a live Metropolitan Opera House performance by several famous opera singers. This transmission was arranged by Lee de Forest.\n\nThe wireless radio broadcast consisted of performances of \"Cavalleria Rusticana\" and \"Pagliacci\". Riccardo Martin performed as Turridu, Emmy Destinn as Santuzza, and Enrico Caruso as Canio. The conductor was Egisto Tango. This event is regarded as the birth of public radio broadcasting.\n\nThe \"New York Times\" reported on January 14, 1910: \n\nThe few radio receivers able to pick up this first-ever \"outside broadcast\" were those at the De Forest Radio Laboratory, on board ships in New York Harbor, in large hotels on Times Square and at New York city locations where members of the press were stationed at receiving sets. Public receivers with earphones had been set up in several well-advertised locations throughout New York City. There were members of the press stationed at various receiving sets throughout the city and the public was invited to listen to the broadcast.\n\nThe experiment was considered mostly unsuccessful. The microphones of the day were of poor quality and could not pick up most of the singing on stage. Only off-stage singers singing directly into a microphone could be heard clearly. \"The New York Times\" reported the next day that static and interference \"kept the homeless song waves from finding themselves\".\nLee De Forest's Radio Telephone Company manufactured and sold the first commercial radios in the demonstration room at the Metropolitan Life Building in New York City for this public event.\n\nThe wireless transmitter had 500 watts of power. It is reported that this broadcast was heard 20 km away on a ship at sea. The broadcast was also heard in Bridgeport, Connecticut.\n\nThe very first transmission of music by radio is credited to one Dr. Nussbaumer of the University of Graz in 1904, however it was not to the public. He yodeled an Austrian folk song into an experimental transmitter which was received in the next room at the university where he worked. He does not show in any standard scientific reference works.\n\nLee De Forest produced a program broadcasting opera phonograph records from the Eiffel Tower in Paris in 1908. This was just an experimental stunt for other nearby hobbyists and not considered a public broadcast as the public had no access to receivers at the time. At one point, when testing the radiotelephone for the Navy, Lee de Forest played patriotic phonograph music as the ships entered the harbor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3176758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3176758", "title": "Candice Rose Martinez", "text": "Candice Rose Martinez\n\nCandice Rose Martinez (born c. 1986), also known as the \"Cell Phone Bandit,\" committed four bank robberies in Northern Virginia, U.S., in October and November 2005, when she was a 19-year-old Northern Virginia Community College student. She was given the \"Cell Phone Bandit\" nickname by the media because she spoke on her cell phone while committing the robberies.\n\nCandice received international notoriety when surveillance footage of the robberies was aired on newscasts worldwide, showing her talking on her cell phone during the robberies. It was later discovered that Martinez was talking to her 19-year-old boyfriend Dave C. Williams, who was also driving her getaway car. The case attracted widespread attention due to Martinez's being a young, attractive female college student, as well as the brazen way she conducted the robberies: while calmly talking on her phone.\n\nDave C. Williams and Martinez were arrested on November 14 and 15, 2005, respectively. Martinez confessed shortly after her arrest. A total of $48,620 was stolen in the four heists. The couple bought a 1997 Acura Integra, two big-screen televisions, and plenty of designer clothes and bags, court records state.\n\nOn December 13, 2005, Martinez pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in Alexandria, Virginia, to two felony charges. On March 3, 2006, she was sentenced to 12 years in the Federal Bureau of Prisons, to be followed by 5 years supervised release (probation), a $200 special assessment (court costs), and $43,850 in restitution by U.S. District Judge Gerald Bruce Lee.\n"}
{"id": "33291514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33291514", "title": "Chinese people in Namibia", "text": "Chinese people in Namibia\n\nThe number of Chinese people in Namibia has grown tremendously since independence.\n\nAs recently as 1998, China Radio International reported there to be only fifty Chinese people doing business in Namibia, but by 2005 that had grown to more than a thousand. A 2009 U.S. embassy estimate released by WikiLeaks in the United States diplomatic cables leak states there are three or four thousand. Opposition politicians such as Jurie Viljoen of Monitor Action Group have made accusations that uncontrolled issuance of work permits has led to an influx of as many as 40,000 Chinese labourers, a figure confirmed by Malia Politzer.\n\nIn the 2000s, trade between China and Namibia grew, rising from in $75 million in 2003 to $600 million in 2009. China City, a wholesale and retail centre located in an industrial area of northern Windhoek about 20 minutes from downtown, was opened in 1998 by Li Chengyuan (李澄原), a businessman from Taiwan; by 2005, merchants there were importing about 1,000 containers of goods per year from China.\n\nMany Chinese migrants establish small retail businesses particularly in clothing and jewelry. The arrival of Chinese traders has drawn complaints from local traders about competition and concern about quality and safety. However, some Namibians welcomed the addition of Chinese in the retail sector citing the benefit of employment creation and lower costs of goods.\n\nOshikango, on with Angola has become a popular destination for Chinese traders hoping to take advantage of expanding cross-border trade. By 2004, the town had 22 Chinese-owned shops, expanding to 75 by 2006. From shoes and textiles, these shops have expanded their product offerings to include furniture, home electronics, motorcycles, artificial flowers, and various other types of goods. Shop owners import their goods through the ports at Walvis Bay or Durban in South Africa, and bring them in by rail for storage in bonded warehouses, where they are then sold on to Angolan traders for export to Angola in small quantities, thus avoiding customs duties. In some cases, Chinese businesspeople have set up factories in Oshikango. However these do not produce genuinely competitive goods; their main function is to get work permits for Chinese expatriates who can then work as shop assistants in import/export businesses.\n\nThere are a few Chinese restaurants (three in Windhoek) and grocery stores in the country. The restaurants are popular among local Namibians.\n\nThe embassy's Chinese New Year celebration in 2010 reportedly attracted more than 1,000 Chinese guests, including migrants, international students, and representatives of Chinese multinationals stationed in the country, as well as about 100 local people.\n\n"}
{"id": "26609312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26609312", "title": "Chundrigar", "text": "Chundrigar\n\nThe Chundrigar are a Muslim community found in the state of Gujarat, India. A few are also found in the city of Karachi, Pakistan.\n\nThe Chundrigars are a Gujarati speaking community, associated with the silk knot printing and manufacture of a piece of cloth known as the \"chunri\" or \"dupata\". They claim to have been Arabs who settled in Sindh and then moved to Gujarat. There largest concentration is the city of Surat, although there is a large diaspora in Karachi. According to some traditions, the community are a sub-group within the Manihar community. This is shown by the fact the community intermarry with the Manihars, and are members of the Gujarat Manihar Jamat. Almost all the Chundrigar community have abandoned their traditional occupation. They are now mainly a community of petty traders, with a few successful businessmen.\n\nWith the independence of Pakistan in 1947, many moved to the newly created Muslim state of Pakistan. Ibrahim Ismail Chundrigar served as Pakistan's finance minister and later as Prime Minister of Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "33327183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33327183", "title": "Communication for social change", "text": "Communication for social change\n\nCommunication for social change, referred to as communication for sustainable social change and development, involves the use of variety of communication techniques to address inefficient systems, processes, or modes of production within a specific location that has not incurred major technological advances. Different mediums and approaches are used to help individuals among the targeted society to acquire new knowledge and skills. This will allow communities not only to experience change but to guide it as well.\n\nA possible strategy in achieving sustainability and development places the people of the community in the center of the communication process. This technique is also known as the participatory approach where interpersonal communication is exercised through community media. The members of the culture are agents of change as opposed to the outsiders who may provide any necessary tools. Technology then becomes implemented by people in their social and economic contexts and results in a major shaping process. The participatory approach can be combined with three other types of communicative methods to effectively invoke social change. These include: behavior change communication, mass communication, and advocacy communication.\n\nDifferent types of mediums can be used in achieving governance, health and sustainable development. Old media can be combined with new media to educate specific populations. Information and communication technologies (ICTs) in addition to multi-media are able to address visual, auditory and kinesthetic learners and prove to be an important contribution to economic growth. Questions need to be raised about who the stake holders, policy makers, partners and practitioners are and what their goals might be for the community seeking sustainable development. Oftentimes, those who set the agenda are the ones doing the funding for the project and may include international agencies, bilateral agencies, national authorities, NGOs, and local organizations.\n\nPrior to the project, decision makers consider if introducing new technology will disrupt religion, language, political organization, economy, familial relations and social complexity of the targeted society. Other factors have to be acknowledged as well and may include already present policies and legislations, educational systems, service provisions, institutional and organizational constructions (in the forms of corruption, bureaucracy, etc.), socio-demographic and economic aspects, and the physical environment.\n\nThe Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are an official set of universal goals created by world leaders and adopted by the United Nations to be completed within a specific time frame (2000–2015). They address various aspects of human development and are categorized into eight objectives:\n\n\nThese goals tackle extreme poverty in multiple parts of the world but with already pre-existing setbacks, their feasibility is questioned. Progress in Latin America and the Caribbean, sub-Saharan Africa, and the Middle East and North Africa, combined, was a tenth met of the last agreed target.\n\nDevelopment in Latin America has been discussed since the early 1950s and began with the diffusion of innovations concept where countries like Brazil and Colombia would incorporate models brought by developed countries to foster economic growth, use media for technological and scientific advancements, address local problems and manage processes of modernization. In the 1970s such type of development was criticized because it responded to the interests of the wealthier, already developed countries. As development efforts continued to fail and socio-economic and financial limitations surfaced, the 1980s were described as La Decada Perdida (The lost decade in Latin America).\n\nDevelopment in Latin America is not the same as for countries more economically advanced like the United States. The differences are not only economic but social and cultural as well. Any intervention has to take into account the context in which change can be implemented and address not only the elite culture but the popular one as well. Interactive, digital, and participatory technology is encouraged to take part in the development process more so to educate members of the community and to encompass popular innovations and individual creativity. Public policies in information technologies need to reflect local development in order to guide practices of change for other regions. Concurrently, they need to promote members of the community to stimulate change by finding their own meaning in applications that could potentially improve quality of life. In order to reduce inequality First Human Development Report for Latin America & the Caribbean proposes that policies must affect people (reach), address setbacks that cause poverty (breadth) and empower people to create the change desired (ownership). This type of thinking is a new approach to development and may be one possible solution to combat the eight objectives of human development in Latin America the Millennium Development Goals strive to address.\n\nWorld Bank classifies Latin America in the lower middle and upper middle income range. An estimated 181 million individuals (33.2 percent of the population) live in poverty and seventy-one million of these (12.9 percent) in indigence. Between 2002 and 2008, forty-one million people were able to sustain enough progress to no longer be characterized as poverty but with the current Global recession, this number has decreased by nine million. Ten of the 15 countries with the highest levels of inequality are in the region. Women, indigenous populations and those of African descent are most affected. Females in the region take a greater part in the informal economy and have double the workload than males but are paid less for their efforts. When compared to those of European descent, twice as many members of indigenous and African descended populations, on average, live on US$1 per day. Latin America still faces corrupt political, judicial, and security institutions protective of the interests of the wealthy. The second edition of the \"Global Burden of Armed Violence\" report by the Secretariat of the Geneva Declaration on Armed Violence and Development, released in October 2011, characterized El Salvador as being the \"most violent country in the world\" during 2004–9, with an average annual violent death rate of over 60 per 100,000 people during that period, just ahead of Iraq. During the first week of November (2011), Manuel Melgar (the justice and public security minister of El Salvador) resigned from his post. The region overall is second to South Africa in terms of levels of crime and violence. Educational practices are also being questioned across the region. Chile has been experiencing five months of protests against the government's attempt to maintain the higher education's private sector model. Students and teachers in opposition hope to revert to a state funded model, under an \"Education for All\" slogan in fear of emerging from universities with debts and loans. These street demonstrations, now catching congress' attention, are a threat to Chiles' 2012 budget. Without the proposed spending, potential education, health, training and anti-poverty programs will cease. In Latin America, risks of inflation and excessive currency appreciation are a concern to the region's long-term growth prospects and present instability in the financial sector. Current events such as the European debt crisis, the slow recovery in the US, natural and nuclear disasters in Japan and the implications from the political turmoil in the Middle East stall progress within the region and foreshadow more difficult economic conditions.\n\nGrowth in Latin America – not including the Caribbean region – is expected to average between 3.5 and 4.5 percent of GDP in 2011 (better than economic activity in some developed nations). Progress is attributed to current macroeconomic management, a constant domestic demand, commodity export boom, and the commodity increase in prices which have spurred investments in mining and energy. Unemployment rates have dropped down to seven percent and current results are better than in most North American areas and some wealthier European nations. In the fiscal year 2011, World Bank Group has produced $14.7 billion in funding for the region. Contributions have been made by International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Development Association (IDA), the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). Most of the funding was devoted to health, social, transportation, and public administration services. Countries that received the most financial help were Mexico ($2.7 billion), Brazil ($2.5 billion), and Argentina ($2.2 billion). Funding stimulates development which in turn promotes investment as the current case in Latin America. UN's Economic Commission for Latin America (Eclac) calculated that foreign direct investment (FDI) in 18 Latin American and Caribbean countries totaled to US$82.65bn in the first half of 2011 (up 54% compared to the same period during 2010). These numbers are on the path to be a new historic record in 2011.\n\n\"Countries with highest FDI increase\"\n\nProgress in Latin America has also been attributed to higher employment rates. In Colombia alone, 700,000 jobs were created since Juan Carlos Echeverry took up presidency in 2010. The government wants to create 2.5 million additional jobs by the end of 2014. In addition to employment opportunities, efforts to improve education are in progress. In February 2010, the World Bank and Shakira's advocacy group ALAS Foundation launched a joint venture to improve Early Childhood Development for low income children in Latin America. During the first year of the program, more than half a million kids were provided with health care, adequate nutrition and early education.\nThirty-five percent of Belize's population is under the age of fourteen. The country has the highest HIV prevalence in Central America and the third-highest in the Caribbean after the Bahamas and Haiti, according to a 2007 study. UNAIDS estimates some 3,600 people are currently living with HIV in Belize, 2,000 of which are women. As of December 2010, UNDP began implementing an HIV/AIDS grant agreement designed by the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, & Malaria. The program aims to halt the spread of HIV in Belize by educating young people aged 15–24 about implications, prevention and treatment. Global Fund and UNDP are also providing access to condoms, subsidized referrals, testing, anti-retroviral drugs free of cost at all treatment points, psychosocial support to people living with HIV, and specialized training to professional service providers.\n\nOver the last 20 years Mexico experienced a number of reforms to increase representation of indigenous peoples (13 percent of the country´s total population) in order to ensure their participation in decision-making. The Mexican Government approved 28 indigenous territorial boundaries and electoral districts which have been highlighted in the documentary \"Indigenous Identity and Democracy in Mexico\". UNDP is currently working with the Spanish Agency for International Cooperation Development (AECID) to have government and indigenous groups from Bolivia and Mexico share experiences in electoral and political participation.\n\nThe region has also incurred technological advances to combat climate change. The Global Environment Facility of UNDP in collaboration with the Brazilian Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME), Empresa Metropolitana de Transportes Urbanos de São Paulo (EMTU/SP) while financed with resources from the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) and Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos (FINEP) were able to create the first hydrogen-powered bus in Latin America. The Brazilian Hydrogen-Cell-Fueled Bus project announced the finished product on July 1 of 2010. The city of São Paulo, Brazil, with eighteen million inhabitants, now has a hydrogen-powered bus fueled by water that exudes clean vapor instead of fumes and carbon dioxide. The bus can carry 63 passengers and with hydrogen alone can run up to 300 km.\n"}
{"id": "26240377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26240377", "title": "Counterplanning", "text": "Counterplanning\n\nCounterplanning is the process through which an actor reaches his or her goals by formulating plans that account for the plans and goals of others (e.g. enemies, neutrals, or friends).\n\nWhen the plans and goals of one actor interfere with those of another actor, a conflict exists. These conflicts lead to second- and third-order undesired effects. The best counterplanning techniques to be used in a given situation vary based on the characteristics of the conflict. Counterplanning techniques are common in everyday life and in military planning.\n\nGoal conflicts arise when the desired world states of one or more actors cannot co-exist. This can be resolved by a number of techniques, which fall into three types of strategies.\n\n\n\nDiversion strategies can either be applied directly or applied by deceiving the other actor into thinking certain goals are threatened.\n\n\nOne must also account for counterplanning techniques applied by other actors. A goal conflict counterplanning technique called \"Expected Blocking\" involves preventing another actor from applying the techniques described above.\n\nPlan conflicts occur when the actions of one or more actors prevent other actions from achieving their desired effect. Plan conflicts can be analyzed on the following dimensions:\n"}
{"id": "470330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=470330", "title": "Dakhini", "text": "Dakhini\n\nDakhini or Dakkhani (), also spelled Dakkani (داکھان) and Deccani (\"dec-ca-ni\"), is an Indo-Aryan language of South India. It arose as a language of the Deccan sultanates ca. 1300 AD in ways similar to Urdu. It is similar to Urdu in its influence from Arabic and Persian with a Prakrit base, but differs because of the strong influence of Marathi, Telugu and Kannada spoken in the states of Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. This dialect has a rich and extensive literary heritage. It is also the spoken form of Hindi-Urdu for many people of the region to this day and is a common \"street-language\" in several cities including Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bangalore, Chennai, Aurangabad, Kurnool, Guntur, Nellore and Mangalore. Dakhini is the native language of the Dakhini Muslims.\n\nDakhini is spoken in the Deccan region of India. Just as Urdu developed in Lucknow, Dakhini developed in Deccan plateau parallel to Urdu with Khari Boli. The term Dakhini is perhaps an umbrella for a group of dialects spoken by certain communities of Muslims in the Deccan region.\n\nDakhini was the lingua franca of the Muslims of Deccan, chiefly living in Hyderabad state (including the regions ceded to the British by Nizams), and the Mysore state, covering most of Deccan plateau and adjacent plains except for Moplah Muslims of Kerala and the Maricar, Rawthar and Lebbai Muslims in Tamil Nadu in the south, to the Beary Bhashe language and Konkani speaking Muslims along the western coast of Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra. Though, a minor Segment of Kerala Muslims do speak the Dakhini dialect and identify themselves as Dakhini Muslims who follow \"Hanafi Fiqh\" (Hanafi School of Islamic Jurisprudence).\n\nDakhni for all practical purposes today is an oral language which is flexible enough to be visually represented by different scripts like Devanagari or Urdu or even Persian. Dakhini was widely spoken across the Deccan peninsula with subtle changes in the dialect as you go down south away from Hyderabad ending as a heavily Tamilized version around the middle of Tamil Nadu.\n\nDakhini mainly spoken by the native Muslims living in these areas can also be divided into 2 dialects:\nNorth Dakhini is spoken in areas of Former Hyderabad State, mainly Hyderabad City, Telangana (mainly Nizamabad city), Marathwada (cities of Aurangabad and Nanded), Hyderabad-Karnataka (Gulbarga, Bidar & Raichur in Present day Karnataka), minority native Goan Konkani Muslims in the Uttara Kannada district of Karnataka with some variation of Nawayath, and Goan Muslim dialect in Goa.\n\nSouth Dakhini is spoken along Central Karnataka, Bangalore, Southern and Central Andhra Pradesh (Vijayawada, Kurnool, Kadapa, Guntur, Nellore.,etc.), North Tamil Nadu, Chennai.Most of North tamilnadu districts like \nchennai, vellore, krishnagiri, dharma puri, villipuram, tiruvannamali, and scattered also in mid and south tamilnadu This form of Deccani is interlaced with the native language words of the respective regions.These were the areas under the Mysore and Carnatic sultanates. This is also the form of Dakhini spoken by the minor \"Dakhini Muslim\" community of Kerala.\n\nNorth Dakhini is spoken with an added influence of pure standardized Urdu and while South Dakhini draws slightly more influences from local languages, it has quite a number of original words not to be found in Urdu or Northern Dakhini, with even a slightly varied grammar and sentence structuring. This particularly points towards possible signs that Dakhini as a language in its own sense could have evolved from the Southern parts much more than the Northern variation.\n\nThis dialect is used extensively in the spoken form; when it comes to writing and literary work, standard Urdu is used. Most Dakhini speakers are fluent in standard Urdu, as well as Dakhini, and most will put Urdu as their mother tongue on official censuses, and surveys as Dakhini has not been recognized as an official language by India.\n\nThe Urdu language from Delhi was introduced in the Deccan region during Alauddin Khalji invasion in between 1295 AD to 1316 AD. It became more popular in the Deccan plateau during and after Muhammad bin Tughluq shifted the Sultanate capital from Delhi, making the city of Daulatabad the new capital in 1327 AD. As a revolt against the Sultanate, the Bahmani Sultanate was formed in 1347 AD with Daulatabad as its sultanate capital. This was later moved to Gulbargah and once again, in 1430, to Bidar, The Bahmani Sultanate lasted for about 150 years, expanding to almost the entire Deccan Plateau (which was then named as Deccan). This shifting of power, moving of capitals, expansion of sultanate collectively propagated the Urdu language of Delhi, which came to be known as Deccani and received patronage from its rulers. It was also known through other names like \"Hinduastani\", \"Zaban Hinduastani\", \"Dehalvi\" and \"Hindawi\". The Sufis were the earliest to use \"Deccani\" in its written form. The earliest available manuscript on record is \"Kadam Rao Padam Rao\" a \"Masnavi\" of Fakhruddin Nizami, written during 1421–1434 AD. \n\nWhen the Mughals took over Deccan, many notable personalities, both secular and religious, settled in the Deccan and spread the language across borders that now form parts of Telangana, southern Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Goa. One such poet of Mughal region was Wali Deccani (1667–1707), the first established poet to have composed Ghazals and compiled a divan (a collection of ghazals where the entire alphabet is used at least once as the last letter to define the rhyme pattern).\n\nDakhini has plenty of Turkish evolved loanwords, due to the fact that the ancestors of its people were of Malmuk origin, although most of the Dakhini population of Karnataka has above 90 percentage of Dravidian genes. It is similar to Urdu in its influence from Arabic and Persian with a Prakrit base, but differs because of the strong influence of Marathi, Telugu and Kannada spoken in the states of Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. This language, which is often mistaken as a dialect of Urdu, has a rich and extensive literary herite, the most important being Kitab-E-Navras - revered for its transcendence beyond Secularism (A first for India), and Kadam Rao Padam Rao, the book that created Rekhta, which has since then evolved to become the Heart & Soul of Music in India, especially Bollywood. Dakhini has directly lead to the evolution of what is now modern Sufism, which since then has spread throughout the World. Such was its impact that even the Mughals who had come to destroy Dakhini fell in love with it.\n\nDespite it being the native language of most Muslims of the erstwhile Deccan sultanates and later of the Princely States of Hyderabad State (including the regions ceded to the British by Nizams) and the Kingdom of Mysore, it is also the spoken form of Hindi-Urdu for most Hindus and non-Hindus of the region to this day and is the most common \"street-language\" in several cities including Hyderabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Vijayawada, Aurangabad, Kurnool, Guntur, Nellore and Mangalore.\n\nDakhini is the native language of the Dakhini Muslims, although there are some non-Muslims of this ethnicity as well but they are negligible. Hyderabadi people pronounce their language as 'Dakani' and Bengluri folks, not the city, but the ethnicity, pronounce it as 'Dakhni'. This includes all descendant Dakhini population of the erstwhile Mysore State, although some consider themselves Mysuri. Also, people from the old Hyderabad Princely state ruled by the Nizams call themselves Hyderabadi.\n\nDakhini, though built on a base of Khadi Boli, influenced the development of Urdu (also known as Hindustani, Hindavi, or Rekhta). This was achieved primarily through the continual interaction of Sufi poets, courtesans and public between the Deccan and the Mughal Courts and the Khadi Boli heartland. Hyderabad was the southernmost city of North India. Noteworthy are the contributions of Wali Dakhni (also known as Wali Aurangabadi and Wali Gujarati), a famous poet of Dakhni, who visited Delhi in 1700. He astonished the poets of Delhi with his ghazals. He drew wide applause from the Persian-speaking poets, some of whom, after listening to Wali, also adopted the language of the people, ‘Urdu’, as the medium of their poetic expressions. Prominent poets—Shah Hatem, Shah Abro and Mir Taqi Mir—were among his admirers.\n\nAt that time in Delhi, the court poets were composing in Persian and Arabic. For others, Braj and Awadhi were the languages of literary and religious expressions. The spoken language of all was Khadi Boli. When the poets listened to Wali in Dakhni language (which is also a variant of Khari Boli) they were struck by the fact that the spoken language of the people was capable of such rich literary expression. These events were important for they hastened the adoption of Urdu over Khadi Boli, in the early 18th century, as the language for literary and religious expression (in which Dakhini played the role of a catalyst).\n\nA twentieth-century Kerala Hindi scholar, Dr. Muhammad Kunj Mettar, established Dakhini as a source for modern Hindi. Dr. Suniti Kumar Chattopadhyay also maintained that it was Dakhini that established the use of Khari Boli replacing Braj in the North. In fact, even the name Hindi for the language originated in the South. A Tamil, Kazi Mahamud Bahari, used the word Hindi for Dakhini in the 17th century in his Sufi poem \"Man Lagan\". Renaming Dakhini as Hindi was probably a symbolic gesture by him to extend the geographical reach of this language.\n\nDakhini is part of the Indo-Aryan grouping of the Indo-European languages. The Dakhini language has puzzled linguists for years, and its specific classification is a confusing subject, it could be a direct descendant, or sister language of Urdu, or be a Persianization of the Marathi language. It was also declared as the National language of the former defunct Hyderabad State.\n\nMost speakers of Dakhini live in the Indian region known as the Deccan. They inhabit the regions comprising the erstwhile Muslim kingdoms in Deccan Plateau viz. portions of the states of Telangana, southern Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu. They can be collectively be known as Dakhini Muslims, and include subgroups like the Hyderabadi Muslims.\n\nOther than the Northern, including Hyderabadi, and Southern, dialects of Dakhini include Savji bhasha i.e. the language of the Savji community in the Hubli, Dharwad, Gadag, Bijapur, Belgaum region.\n\nThe Deccani Film Industry is based in Hyderabad, India, and its movies are produced in Hyderabadi Urdu, a dialect of Deccani.\n\n"}
{"id": "19130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19130", "title": "Demographics of Mali", "text": "Demographics of Mali\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Mali, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\nIn , Mali's population was an estimated /1e6 round 1 million, with an annual growth rate of 2.7%. This figure can be compared to 4,638,000 in 1950. The population is predominantly rural (68% in 2002), and 5–10% of Malians are nomadic. More than 90% of the population lives in the southern part of the country, especially in Bamako, which has over 1 million residents.\n\nIn 2007, about 48% of Malians were less than 15 years old, 49% were 15–64 years old, and 3% were 65 and older. The median age was 15.9 years. The birth rate in 2007 was 49.6 births per 1,000, and the total fertility rate was 7.4 children per woman.\n\nThe death rate in 2007 was 16.5 deaths per 1,000. Life expectancy at birth was 49.5 years total (47.6 for males and 51.5 for females). Mali has one of the world's highest rates of infant mortality, with 106 deaths per 1,000 live births.\n\nThe proportion of the population aged below 15 in 2010 was 47.2%. 50.6% of the population were aged between 15 and 65 years of age. 2.2% of the population were aged 65 years or older.\n\nStructure of the population (01.04.2009) (Census, Complete tabulation):\n\nStructure of the population (DHS 2012-2013) (Males 27 571, Females 28 264 = 55 836) :\n\nEthnic groups include: Bambara 34.1%, Fulani (; ) 14.7%, Sarakole 10.8%, Senufo 10.5%, Dogon 8.9%, Malinke 8.7%, Bobo 2.9%, Songhai 1.6%, Tuareg 0.9%, other Malian 6.1%, ECOWAS citizens 0.3%, other 0.4%\n\nMali's population consists of Sub-Saharan ethnic groups, sharing similar historic, cultural, and religious traditions. Exceptions are two nomadic northern groups, the Tuaregs, a Berber people, and Maurs (or Moors), of Arabo-Berber origins. In Mali and Niger, the Moors are also known as Azawagh Arabs, named after the Azawagh region of the Sahara. Azawagh Arabs speak mainly Hassaniya Arabic which is one of the regional varieties of Arabic.\n\nThe Tuaregs traditionally have opposed the central government. Starting in June 1990 in the north, Tuaregs seeking greater autonomy led to clashes with the military. In April 1992, the government and most opposing factions signed a pact to end the fighting and restore stability in the north. Its major aims are to allow greater autonomy to the north and increase government resource allocation to what has been a traditionally impoverished region. The peace agreement was celebrated in 1996 in Timbuktu during an official and highly publicized ceremony called \"Flamme de la Paix\"--(peace flame).\n\nHistorically, interethnic relations throughout the rest of the country were facilitated by easy mobility on the Niger River and across the country's vast savannahs. Each ethnic group was traditionally tied to a specific occupation, all working within proximity to each other, although the distinctions were often blurred.\n\nThe Bambara, Malinké, Sarakole, Dogon and Songhay are farmers; the Fula or Fulani, Maur, and Tuareg are herders, while the Bozo are fishers. In recent years this linkage has shifted considerably, as ethnic groups seek nontraditional sources of income.\n\nMixed European/African descendants of Muslims of Spanish, as well some French, Irish, Italian and Portuguese origins live in Mali, they are known as the Arma people (1% of the nation's population). \n\nRegistration of vital events is in Mali not complete. The Population Departement of the United Nations prepared the following estimates.\n\nBirths and deaths\nTotal Fertility Rate (TFR) (Wanted Fertility Rate) and Crude Birth Rate (CBR):\n\nFertility data as of 2012-2013 (DHS Program):\n\nMali had an estimated net migration rate of –6.6 migrants per 1,000 people in 2006. About 3 million Malians are believed to reside in Côte d'Ivoire and France. Conversely, according to a 2003 estimate, Mali hosts about 11,000 Mauritanians; most are Fulani herders who routinely engage in cross-border migration. In addition, there are several thousand refugees from Côte d'Ivoire, Sierra Leone, and Liberia in Bamako and other urban areas of Mali.\n\nAlthough each ethnic group speaks a separate language, nearly 80% of Malians communicate over ethnic borders in Bambara, which is the common language of the marketplace. French is the country's official language and is spoken somewhat by 30% of Malians.\n\nAn estimated 90% of Malians are Muslim (mostly Sunni), 9% adhere to indigenous or traditional animist beliefs, and 1% are Christian (about two-thirds Roman Catholic and one-third Protestant). Atheism and agnosticism are believed to be rare among Malians, most of whom practice their religion on a daily basis. Islam as practiced in Mali can be moderate, tolerant, and adapted to local conditions; relations between Muslims and practitioners of minority religious faiths are generally amicable. The constitution establishes a secular state and provides for freedom of religion, and the government largely respects this right.\n\nMali's health and development indicators rank among the worst in the world. In 2000 only 62–65 percent of the population was estimated to have access to safe drinking water and only 69 percent to sanitation services of some kind; only 8 percent was estimated to have access to modern sanitation facilities. Only 20 percent of the nation’s villages and livestock watering holes had modern water facilities.\n\nThere were an estimated 140,000 cases of human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) reported in 2003, and an estimated 1.9 percent of the adult population was afflicted with HIV/AIDS that year, among the lowest rates in Sub-Saharan Africa (see also HIV/AIDS in Africa). In the same year, there were 12,000 AIDS deaths. The infant mortality rate is 69.5 deaths/1,000 live births (75.3/1,000 among males and 63.5/1,000 among females) (2017 est.). Life expectancy at birth is 60.3 years (58.2 years among males and 62.5 years among females) (2017 est.).\n\nIn the 2000–01 school year, the primary school enrollment rate was 61% (71% of males and 51% of females). The primary school completion rate is also low: only 36 percent of students in 2003 (and lower for females). The majority of students reportedly leave school by age 12. In the late 1990s, the secondary school enrollment rate was 15% percent (20% of males and 10% of females).\n\nAccording to United States government estimates, the adult literacy rate (defined as those over age 15 who can read and write) was 46.4 percent for the total population in 2003 (53.5 percent for males and 39.6 percent for females). According to United Nations sources, however, the literacy rate is actually much lower—only 27–30 percent overall and as low as 12 percent for females, among the lowest rates in Africa.\n"}
{"id": "1031900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1031900", "title": "Examples of feudalism", "text": "Examples of feudalism\n\nExamples of feudalism are helpful to fully understand feudalism and feudal society. Feudalism was practiced in many different ways, depending on location and time period, thus a high-level encompassing conceptual definition does not always provide a reader with the intimate understanding that detailed historical examples provide.\n\nFeudalism in 12th century England was among the better structured and established in Europe at the time. However, it could be structurally complex, which is illustrated by the example of the feudal barony of Stafford as described in a survey of knight's fees made in 1166 and recorded in \"The Black Book of the Exchequer\". This was a roll of parchment or several such, recording the quantity and tenant of each knight's fee held \"in capite\". It was a record commissioned by the Treasury as the knight's fee was the primary basis for assessing certain types of taxation, for example, feudalism is the exchange of land for military service, thus everything was based on what was called the knight's fee, which is a fiefdom or estate of land. A feudal barony contained several knight's fees, for example the baron Robert of Stafford held a barony containing 60 knight's fees. Often lords were not so much lords presiding over great estates, but managers of a network of tenants and sub-leases.\n\nStafford tenants were themselves lords of the manors they held from him, which is altogether different from their being barons. Henry d'Oilly, who held 3 fees from Robert of Stafford, also held, as a tenant-in-chief, over 30 fees elsewhere that had been granted to him directly by the king. Thus while Henry was the vassal of his overlord Robert, Henry was himself a lord of his own manors held \"in capite\" and sub-enfeoffed many of his manors which he did not keep in demesne, that is to say under his own management using simple employees. It would also have been possible and not uncommon for a situation where Robert of Stafford was a vassal of Henry elsewhere, creating the condition of mutual lordship/vassalage between the two. These complex relationships invariably created loyalty problems through conflicts of interests. To resolve this the concept of a liege lord existed, which meant that the vassal was loyal to his liege lord above all others, except the king himself, no matter what. However, even this sometimes broke down when a vassal would pledge himself to more than one liege lord.\n\nFrom the perspective of the smallest land holder, multiple networks of tenancy were layered on the same small plot of land. A chronicle of the time says \"different lordships lay on the land in different respects\". Each tenant laid claim to a certain aspect of the service from the land.\n\nAmong the complexities of feudal arrangements, there existed no guarantee that contracts between lord and vassal would be honored, and feudal contracts saw little enforcement from those with greater authority. This often resulted in the wealthier and more powerful party taking advantage of the weaker.\n\nSuch was (allegedly) the case of Hugh de Lusignan and his relations with his lord William V of Aquitaine. Between 1020 and 1025 Hugh wrote or possibly dictated a complaint against William and his vassals describing the unjust treatment he had received at the hands of both. Hugh describes a convoluted intermingling of loyalties that was characteristic of the period and instrumental in developing strain between nobles that resulted in competition for each other's land. According to Hugh's account, William wronged him on numerous occasions, often to the benefit of William's vassals. Many of his properties suffered similar fates: seized by opponents and divided between them and William. William apparently neglected to send military aid to Hugh when necessary and dealt most unfairly in the exchange of hostages. Each time Hugh reclaimed one of his properties, William ordered him to return it to whomever had recently taken it from him. William broke multiple oaths in succession yet Hugh continued to put faith in his lord's word, to his own ruin. In his last contract with William, over possession of his uncle's castle at Chiza, Hugh dealt in no uncertain terms and with frank language:\n\nHugh: You are my lord, I will not accept a pledge from you, but I will simply rely on the mercy of God and yourself.\nWilliam: Give up all those claims over which you have quarreled with me in the past and swear fidelity to me and my son and I will give you your uncle's honor [Chizes] or something else of equal value in exchange for it.\nHugh: My lord, I beg you through God and this blessed crucifix which is made in the figure of Christ that you do not make me do this if you and your son were intending to threaten me with trickery.\nWilliam: On my honor and my son I will do this without trickery.\nHugh: And when I shall have sworn fidelity to you, you will demand Chizes castle of me, and if I should not turn it over to you, you will say that it is not right that I deny you the castle which I hold from you, and if I should turn it over to you, you and your son will seize it because you have given nothing in pledge except the mercy of God and yourself.\nWilliam: We will not do that, but if we should demand it of you, don't turn it over to us.\n\nWhile perhaps an embellishment of the truth for the sake of Hugh's cause, and not necessarily a microcosm of the feudal system everywhere, the \"Agreement Between Lord and Vassal\" is evidence at least of corruption in feudal rule.\n\nPortugal, originally a part of the Kingdom of León, was an example of a feudal society, according to Marc Bloch.\n\nPortugal has its roots in a feudal state in northern Iberia, the County of Portugal, established in 868 within the Kingdom of Asturias. The Vímara Peres, the local counts dynasty, was suppressed in 1071, but twenty two years later, in 1093, King Alphonse VI of Léon and Castille gave the county as a fiefdom to Henry of Burgundy (a younger Capet who was participating in the reconquista), when he married Theresa, the king’s natural daughter.\n\nIn spite of their vassal link, Henry had a remarkable autonomy, especially after his father-in law's death in 1109. The Portuguese independence was obtained by his son, Afonso I of Portugal when, after defeating the Muslims at the Battle of Ourique, proclaimed himself King of Portugal in 1139, cutting definitively all feudal bonds with the Kingdom of León. Upon seeing the weakness of feudal society due to the Muslim invasion, Portugal became independent from the Kingdom of León as Castile had done a century earlier.\n\nOutside of a medieval European historical context, the concept of feudalism is generally used by analogy (called semi-feudal), most often in discussions of Japan under the \"shōguns\", and, sometimes, nineteenth-century Ethiopia. However, some have taken the feudalism analogy further, seeing it in places as diverse as Ancient Egypt, the Parthian empire, India, and the American South of the nineteenth century.\n\nPronoia, the 11th-century system of land grants in the Byzantine empire, makes a useful contrast to feudal tenure in the European West. Another distinction between the European West can be made in that paroiki (people who lived and farmed on the land of the Pronoiars) owed no debt or loyalty to the pronoiars (the recipients of the Pronoia). This system was adopted by Serbia and then the Ottoman Empire after the fall of the Byzantine Empire at their hands, which called their land grants \"timar\" and the recipients of the land grants \"timariots\".\n\nIn contrast to Western Europe where feudalism created a strong central power, it took a strong central power to develop feudalism in Russia. A lack of true central power weakened and doomed the Russians to outside domination. The Russians developed its system of land/lord/worker, loosely called feudalism, after it had created a strong central power. Lacking a feudal system of vassal loyalty made it impossible for any prince, early on, to gain enough influence and power to project a strong force against any invaders.\n\nIn contrast to other European forms of serfdom and feudalism there was a lack of vassalage and loyalty to the lord whose land the serfs worked. It took a much longer period of time for feudalism to develop but when it did it took on a much harsher form than elsewhere in Europe. Serfs had no rights whatsoever; they could be traded like livestock by their lords. They had no ownership of anything, including their own families, all of which belonged to their lord.\n\nAnother major difference was the lack of independent principalities; this was due to the lack of vassalage. As separate lords did not command their own troops to protect their own lands.\n\nThe Nakharar system used by the Armenian nobility throughout Medieval Armenia has often been described as feudal, with hereditary houses of nobles owning large estates, each headed by its own tanuter, and with the estates themselves divided amongst the family. For Armenia as a whole, a Sparapet (supreme commander), King, and chief Aspet were each taken from individual noble houses. However, Armenian feudalism differs from the feudalism of most of Europe as the estates were owned by families, not lords, and could not be split or given without the family's permission. Also, if a tanuter died heirless, he was succeeded by a different branch of the family, rather than by a noble who was sworn to him. Cilician Armenia, through contact with crusader states, had a system even closer to western feudalism. The economic and political systems of medieval Europe in which people exchanged loyalty and labor for a lord's protection\n\nThe Taluqdari or Zamindari system is often referred to as a feudal or feudal-like system. Originally the system was introduced in the pre-colonial period to collect taxes from peasants, and it continued during colonial British rule. After independence Zamindari was abolished in India and East Pakistan (present day Bangladesh), but it is still present today in the state of Pakistan. In modern times historians have become very reluctant to classify other societies into European models and today it is rare for Zamindari to be described as feudal by academics; it still done in popular usage, however, but only for pejorative reasons to express disfavour, typically by critics of the system.\n\nThe People's Republic of China is officially a Marxist–Leninist society and state, based on \"Socialism with Chinese Characteristics\" under a people's democratic dictatorship, and attempts have been made by Marxist academics to record China's history in the PRC. Feudalism is the model that modern Chinese Marxists and Tokyo school historians use to identify China's recent past, neologized from the Chinese concept of \"fengjian\" (which means to allocate a region or piece of land to an individual, establishing him as the ruler of that region), a term used to designate the multi-state which existed in China under the Zhou dynasty, and was eradicated by the Qin, by which time the state of Qin had conquered all other states and established the first China-wide empire. After King Wu of Zhou defeated the Shang dynasty, he created five hereditary ranks; 公 \"gōng\", 侯 \"hóu\", 伯 \"bó\", 子 \"zǐ\" and 男 \"nán\", commonly translated as Duke, Marquis, Earl (or Count), Viscount and Baron. However, unlike their Western European equivalents, the titles often indicated more in the way of perceived nobility rather than amount of land possessed. For example, the Lords of the eventually huge states of Qin and Chu were known as \"Earls\" and \"Viscounts\", while the Lord of Song was given the title of \"Duke\" on the merits of his descent from the previous Shang royal lineage, rather than his level of power. Ancient Chinese texts can sometimes cause confusion as it was also considered to be polite to address rulers as \"gōng\" regardless of their actual rank. As the Zhou dynasty's control weakened, the regional magnates caused further title inflation by referring to themselves as Kings; the inflation was such that under the Han dynasty, many local lords were established with the title of \"king\"; in imperial China, the character is thus more normally rendered as \"prince\".\n\nThe Zhou Dynasty can be seen as a true feudal system as it is in many respects very similar to the system used in Medieval Europe. Each lord was given land, and his power was legitimised by nominal allegiance to the central Zhou king; politics thus revolved around these noble households. In fact, the notion of \"prime minister\" 太宰 in ancient Chinese came from the feudal time meaning the \"chief housekeeper\" or \"butler\" of the noble household, in a similar way to the development of such European titles as \"constable\". Each feudal state was governed independently with taxes, currency and laws set by each individual household, but the nobles were required to pay regular homage to the Zhou Kings as an act of fealty. At the time of war the nobles were required to provide armed service to the King. Approaching the end of the Zhou dynasty, the power of the King dwindled while the power of the nobles had risen. This resulted in what is known as the Spring and Autumn period and Warring States periods when the nobles fought each other constantly for supremacy. This resulted in the collapse of the noble ranking system, with the feudally organised society of the Springs and Autumns largely replaced by more bureaucratised states with standing armies, who no longer paid any attention to the Zhou.\n\nAfter King Ying Zheng of Qin, known to posterity as the First Emperor of Qin, defeated his rival states, deposing the Zhou and founding the first empire, he formally abolished the largely defunct feudal system, replacing it with a bureaucratised system of literate civil servants. Despite the rapid collapse of the Qin and an abortive attempt at reinstitution of feudalism by Xiang Yu, the following Han dynasty maintained the vast majority of his bureaucratic reforms, establishing them as the new standard of government for the next two thousand years of imperial Chinese history. While Han Confucian scholarship would decry the First Emperor as a tyrant whose \"crimes against humanity\" included removing feudalism, looked back on as integral to the idealised society of the Western Zhou, feudalism in the sense of devolved power for a military elite would not again be implemented in China.\n\nWhether Tibet constituted a feudal social system or if peasants can be considered serfs is still debated. Studied districts of Tibet between the 17th and 20th century show evidence of a striated society with land ownership laws and tax responsibility that resemble European feudal systems. However, scholars have pointed out key differences that make the comparison contested and only limited evidence from that period is available for study. Scholar Geoff Samuel further argued that Tibet even in the early 20th century did not constitute a single state but rather a collection of districts and a legal system of Lhasa with particular land and tax laws did not extend over the entire country.\nHowever, according to Melvyn Goldstein, for the 20th century, the Tibetan political system can not be categorized as feudal.\n\nThe Tokugawa shogunate was a feudal military dictatorship of Japan established in the 17th century lasting until 1868. It marks a period often referred to loosely as 'feudal Japan', otherwise known as the Edo period. While modern historians have become very reluctant to classify other societies into European models, in Japan, the system of land tenure and a vassal receiving tenure in exchange for an oath of fealty is very close to what happened in parts of medieval Europe, and thus the term is sometimes used in connection with Japan. Friday notes that in the 21st century, historians of Japan rarely invoke feudalism; instead of looking at similarities, specialists attempting comparative analysis concentrate on fundamental differences.\n\nScots law is quite different from English law. One scholar explained it in 1924 as following: \n\nThe system of land tenure in Scotland was until recently feudal in nature. In theory, this meant that the land was held under The Crown as ultimate feudal superior. Historically, The Crown would make a grant of land in return for military or other services and the grantees would in turn make sub-grants for other services and so on. Those making grants – the \"superiors\" – retained a legal interest in the land (\"dominium directum\"), and so a hierarchical structure was created with each property having a number of owners, co-existing simultaneously. Only one of these, the vassal, has what in normal language would be regarded as ownership of the property (\"dominium utile\").\n\nIn the 18th century, peasants were dispossessed of the land to which they were bonded.\n\nThe Abolition of Feudal Tenure etc. (Scotland) Act 2000 abolished the feudal system of land tenure in Scotland and replaced it with a system of outright ownership of land. Since the Act became fully effective from 28 November 2004, the vassal owns the land outright, and superiority interests disappeared. The right of feudal superiors to enforce conditions was ended, subject to certain saving provisions of a restricted nature. Feu duty was abolished although compensation may be payable. The delay between Royal assent and coming into force was a result of the great number of transitional arrangements needed to be put into place before final abolition and because of the close relation that the 2000 Act has to the Title Conditions Act 2003.\n\nUnique in England, the village of Laxton in Nottinghamshire continues to retain some vestiges of the feudal system, where the land is still farmed using the open field system. The feudal court now only meets annually, with its authority now restricted to management of the farmland.\n\nThe tiny island of Sark, in the Channel Islands, was arguably the last feudal state in Europe, up until April 9, 2008. The island was a fiefdom of the larger nearby island of Guernsey and administered independently by a Seigneur, who was a vassal to the land's owner – the Queen of the United Kingdom. Sark's ruling body voted on 4 October 2006 to replace the remaining tenement seats in Chief Pleas with a fully elected democratic government. This was implemented on April 9, 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6827661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6827661", "title": "Haji Mastan", "text": "Haji Mastan\n\nHaji Mastan (1 March 1926 25 June 1994), popularly known as Haji Mastan, Bawa, or Sultan, was an Indian gangster, smuggler, film financier and real estate businessman. Mastan was a Labbay Tamil Muslim who was born in the Madras Presidency (now Tamil Nadu), but lived and operated in Bombay (now Mumbai) for much of his life. Mastan was known to be a good politician and a successful businessman. He had a stranglehold over the smuggling business in Bombay for almost two decades and made a fortune. He was a very powerful man at his time.\n\nMastan was the first Bombay smuggler to achieve a sort of celebrity status. He would be often seen at parties and functions rubbing shoulders with politicians, Bollywood actors and businessmen. He often wore completely white clothes and shoes, smoked expensive cigarettes and drove a white Mercedes Benz. He often helped people. He has many malayali friends in dongri This made him an icon among the poor and uneducated Muslim youth in the ghetto areas of South Mumbai, namely Bhendi Bazaar, Dongri and Nagpada. He was also held in high regard in poor Tamil communities in Matunga, Sion, Dharavi and Koliwada.\n\nHaji Mastan was born in 1926 in Tamil Muslim family Panaikulam, near Ramanathapuram, in the Madras Presidency, British India (now Tamil Nadu, India). He lived in the coastal town of Cuddalore, Tamil Nadu, before migrating to Bombay (now Mumbai). At the age of 8, he migrated there with his father.\n\nMastan started doing odd jobs as a small boy in Crawford Market and later joined the dock and started working long hours in the dock as a small boy. In his early twenties, due to high import duty in gold, people started smuggling gold from overseas. As he was already working in the docks it made it easier for him to pass through it and then Mastan started his own business. Mastan began making a neat sum of money by diverting his sectors in business. At an early age he went on Hajj, and thereafter came to be referred as Haji Mastan.\n\nMastan joined hands with Sukkur Narayan Bakhia, a smuggler from Daman to control the contraband smuggled into Mumbai and Daman from countries in the Persian Gulf. Mastan purchased properties at various locations in South Bombay including sea-facing bungalow at Peddar Road with his new-found wealth. He lived in a small room built on the terrace of his bungalow.\n\nMastan ventured into film financing later in life, providing producers in Mumbai with much needed funds. He eventually turned into a film producer himself. He also had business interests in real estate, electronic goods and hotels. He owned several electronic shops in Musafir Khana near Crawford Market.\n\nMastan maintained good relations with the other gang leaders. When inter-gang rivalry in Mumbai began increasing, he called all top gang leaders together and split Mumbai between the gangs so that they could operate without coming into conflict.\n\nLater in life, Mastan did not take a direct role in running his gang, instead he depended on lieutenants like Karim Lala and Varadarajan Mudaliar to carry out his smuggling operations and intimidate rivals and debtors. Mastan was especially close to fellow gangster Varadarajan as they both hailed from Tamil Nadu. When Varadarajan died in Tamil Nadu, Mastan hired a private chartered plane to bring his body to Mumbai for final rites. Mastan had many acquaintances in Bollywood such as Dilip Kumar, Raj Kapoor, Dharmendra, Feroz Khan and Sanjeev Kumar.\n\nDuring the Indian Emergency, he was imprisoned. Whilst in prison, he was influenced by the ideals of politician Jaiprakash Narayan and also began learning Hindi.\n\nAfter his release from prison , Mastan entered politics and formed a political party in 1980-81 and renamed it as Dalit Muslim Surakhsha Maha Sangh in 1985. \n\nMastan died of cardiac arrest on 25th June 1994.\n\nHaji mastan had no children but he did informally adopt Sundar Shaekhar. Shaekhar runs Hussain's political party, now renamed 'Bharatiya Minorities Suraksha Mahasangh'. Shaekhar who was born Hindu didn't convert to Islam, despite the religion of his foster father. Nonetheless, Hussain reportedly nicknamed him \"Suleman Mirza\".\n\nThe 1975 Bollywood film \"Deewaar\" was loosely based on Haji Mastan's life, with Amitabh Bachchan portraying a fictionalized version of him. \"Deewaar\" was later remade into a 1981 Tamil film, \"Thee\", starring Rajinikanth in the same role.\n\nThe 2010 film \"Once Upon a Time in Mumbaai\" was heavily based on Haji Mastan's life, although it was also partially fictionalized. Ajay Devgn portrayed the character of Haji Mastan (as \"Sultan Mirza\") in the film, while Emraan Hashmi portrays underworld don Dawood Ibrahim (as \"Shoaib Khan\").\n\nOn 25 May 2017, it was announced Rajnikanth's forthcoming film will be \"Kala Karikalan\" (released 2018) which is believed to be based on Mastan. His foster son Sundar Shekar Mishra sent a notice to Rajinikanth when he learned of this. In response, Wunderbar Films issued a statement clarifying that the film is not based on Mastan's life.\n"}
{"id": "37663605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37663605", "title": "Hobby Club", "text": "Hobby Club\n\nThe Hobby Club was established in New York City in 1908 as an exclusive gentleman's club for people with an amateur's hobby or special interest. The original number of members could not be more than 50 men. In effect, this was an opportunity to showcase their special \"Cabinet of curiosities\" and special collections of armour, coins, precious stones and Incunable to the other members at their annual dinners.\n\nAccording to its constitution, \"This Club shall be called THE HOBBY CLUB. The object of the Club shall be to encourage the collection of literary, artistic and scientific works; to aid in the development of literary, artistic and scientific matters; to promote social and literary intercourse among its members, and the discussion and consideration of various literary and economic subjects.\"\n\n\"The Hobby Club, incorporated by a number of well-known New Yorkers, will hold its first dinner at the Metropolitan Club on the evening of Dec. 28. The club's membership is limited to fifty, and to become eligible one must mount some well defined hobby. So enthusiastic have the members become that it is now planned to give dinners, at which the hobbies will be discussed, at least once a month until April. There is even talk about building a clubhouse. That the organization will be a success seems assured, as scores have sought to become members.\"\n\nMuch of the activity of the Hobby Club was in the lavish dinners provided in the homes of the various members, who were then able to show off their hobbies and collections.\nThe Fourth Dinner of the Hobby Club was on September 27, 1912 in the home of Theodore N. Vail who gave a presentation on \"The Intercommunication of Intelligence\" at his country home, Speedwell Farms, in Lyndonville, Vermont. \"In the evening we had the club dinner, with Mr. Vail as speaker of the occasion. His subject, \"The Intercommunication of Intelligence,\" enabled him to draw in a most interesting fashion upon his own reminiscences of the great work of establishing telegraphic and telephonic connection between all parts of the continent.\"\n\nThe Fifth Dinner was on October 31, 1912 in the home of Professor Bashford Dean and his presentation on \"Ancient Armor\" in Riverdale, New York. The Sixth Dinner was on December 19, 1912 was hosted by MR. John D. Crimins at the Metropolitan Club and his presentation was on \"Early New York\".\n\nThrough the courtesy of the [Joan of Arc] Statue Committee, the Club held a special meeting on the evening of Saturday, January 25, 1913, in the American Numismatic Society Building, to view the Joan of Arc Loan Exhibition. Dr. George F. Kunz presented to each member a special Hobby Club edition of the very artistic illustrated catalogue. The members later were entertained at the Hispano-American Museum, where their fellow member, Mr. Archer M. Huntington, acted as host and guide, showing and explaining the many rare and beautiful art and literary treasures. The Seventh Dinner was held on January 30, 1913 by Mr. Alvin W. Krech who gave a talk on \"Incunabula\". The Eighth Dinner was held on March 20, 1913 and hosted by Mr. George A. Plimpton who gave a talk on \"Education Before Printing as Endorsed by Original Manuscripts\". The Ninth Dinner was held on May l, 1913, and hosted by Dr. George F. Kunz, who gave a talk on \"Precious Stones\" at the Union Club. The Tenth Dinner was held on December 18, 1913 and hosted by Mr. R. T. Haines Halsey who spoke about \"American Arts and Crafts of the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries\" at the Metropolitan Club. The Eleventh Dinner was held on February 19, 1914, and hosted by Mr. Winston H. Hagen who spoke about 'By-ways of Book Collecting'. The address was delivered by Mr. Halsey at his residence, No. 64 West 55th Street.\n\nThe Twelfth Dinner was held on March 26, 1914, and hosted by MR. David Wagstaff who spoke on \"Books on Angling\" at his home on No. 26 West 52nd Street. The Thirteenth Dinner was held on April 23, 1914, and hosted by MR. Percy R Pyne who spoke on 'Old Prints of New York\". The Fourteenth Dinner was held on November 20, 1914 and hosted by PROF. Edwin R. A. Seligman who spoke about \"Curiosities of Economic Literature\" at his home at No. 324 West 86th Street. The Fifteenth Dinner was held on January 12, 1915 at the Metropolitan Club and hosted by MR. Rowland G. Hazard, who spoke on \"Prehistoric Implements\". The Sixteenth Dinner was held on February 12, 1915 and hosted by MR. Phoenix Ingraham who spoke on \"Thackeray and Stevenson\" at his home at No. 80 Irving Place. The Seventeenth Dinner was held on April 23, 1915 and hosted by MR. Edward T. Newell, who spoke on \"Ancient Greek and Roman Coins' at the Metropolitan Club. The Eighteenth Dinner was held on December 16, 1915 and hosted by MR. Henry E. Huntington who spoke on \"Books and Manuscripts of My Library\" from his home at No. 2 East 57th Street. The Nineteenth Dinner was held on January 18, 1916, and hosted by MR. Henry S. Van Duzer who spoke on \"Thackerayana\" from his home at No. 30 East 55th Street. The Twentieth Dinner was held on February 17, 1916 and hosted by MR. William B. Osgood Field who spoke on \"Some Illustrators of the Nineteenth Century\" from his home at No. 645 Fifth Avenue. The Twenty-first Dinner was held on March 30, 1916 and hosted by MR. Albert Gallatin who spoke on \"Original Drawings\" from his home on No. 7 East 67th Street. The Twenty-second Dinner was held on November 9, 1916 and hosted by DR. Charles William Wallace who spoke on \"Shakespeariana\" at the Metropolitan Club. The Twenty-third Dinner was held on January 25, 1917 and hosted by PROF. David Eugene Smith who spoke on \"MlRABILIA MATHEMATICA\" at the Union Club. The Twenty-fourth Dinner was held on February 22, 1917 and hosted by MR. Charles A. Munn who spoke on his collection of \"Washington Portraits and Distinguished Americans of the Eighteenth Century\" at his home at No. 62 East 55th Street. The Twenty-fifth Dinner was held on December 6, 1917 and hosted by MR. William K. Bixby who showed his collection of \"Unpublished Autograph Letters and Manuscripts\" in his home at No. 2 East 57th Street.\n\nAt the meetings, privately published books were given to the other members as a souvenir by the speakers. These items were published in severely limited editions. A list is given on pages 37–38 of the Annals of the Hobby Club. They include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29873161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29873161", "title": "Human trafficking in Botswana", "text": "Human trafficking in Botswana\n\nBotswana is a source and destination country for women and children subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation. Parents in poor rural communities sometimes send their children to work for wealthier families as domestics in cities or as herders at remote cattle posts, where some of these children are vulnerable to forced labor. Batswana girls are exploited in prostitution within the country, including in bars and by truck drivers along major highways; it does not appear, however, that organized pimping of children occurs. In the past, women reported being forced into commercial sexual exploitation at some safari lodges, but there were no similar reports during this reporting period. Residents in Botswana most susceptible to trafficking are illegal immigrants from Zimbabwe, unemployed men and women, those living in rural poverty, agricultural workers, and children orphaned by HIV/AIDS. Some women from Zimbabwe who voluntarily, but illegally, migrate to Botswana to seek employment are subsequently subjected by their employers to involuntary domestic servitude. Botswana families which employ Zimbabwean women as domestic workers at times do so without proper work permits, do not pay adequate wages, and restrict or control the movement of their employees by holding their passports or threatening to have them deported back to Zimbabwe.\n\nThe Government of Botswana does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking; however, it is making significant efforts to do so. During the reporting period, the government began drafting a comprehensive anti-trafficking law, investigated potential cases of human trafficking, and provided protective services to several individuals who may have been targets of traffickers. It failed, however, to prosecute and convict trafficking offenders or make attempts to proactively identify trafficking victims among vulnerable populations, such as irregular migrants subject to deportation.\n\nU.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2\" in 2017.\n\nThe Government of Botswana did not increase its efforts to prosecute or punish trafficking offenses over the last year, though it investigated several suspected cases of human trafficking. The government did not prosecute any trafficking offenses or convict or punish any trafficking offenders in 2009. Although it does not have a comprehensive law prohibiting trafficking in persons, provisions in the Penal Code of 1998, such as those in sections 155-158 on procurement for forced prostitution and sections 28000-262 on slavery, prohibit some forms of human trafficking. The sufficiently stringent penalties prescribed for offenses under these sections range from seven to 10 years’ imprisonment, and are commensurate with those prescribed for other serious crimes, such as rape. These sections have never been used to prosecute or convict a suspected trafficking offender. In June 2009, the Parliament passed a revised Children’s Act, which defined a child as anyone under the age of 18 and increased protections for children from various forms of exploitation, including child labor and child prostitution. Section 57 of the Act prohibits the facilitation or coercion of children into prostitution and prescribes sufficiently stringent penalties of two to five years’ imprisonment or a fine of $2858 to $7143. In October 2009, the Ministry of Defense, Justice and Security began drafting a comprehensive anti-trafficking law. Officers involved in law enforcement investigations of several non-trafficking crimes during 2009 observed that some of these crimes seemed to contain elements of human trafficking. Very few immigration and law enforcement officials are trained to effectively investigate cases of human trafficking or to differentiate between smuggling clients and trafficking victims, which continued to obscure the nature and extent of the trafficking situation in Botswana. In 2009, the Botswana Police Service conducted 10 in-service training courses for its officers, during which students received lectures on combating human trafficking. A police officer in the National Central Bureau of Interpol was assigned to work exclusively on human trafficking issues and to educate police officers about the phenomenon; information on his specific anti-trafficking duties and the results of his work were unavailable.\n\nThe government showed evidence of minimal efforts to protect victims of trafficking. During the year, the government did not identify or provide assistance to any confirmed victims of trafficking, but provided shelter and social services to three Zimbabwean children and six illegal Indian migrants who officials believed to be targets of transnational traffickers. The government provided logistical and financial assistance to repatriate all nine individuals to their countries of origin. NGO-operated shelters which received government funding to provide services to children, including children in prostitution, may have provided assistance to trafficked children without identifying them as such. Law enforcement and social services personnel have not established formal procedures to proactively identify victims of trafficking among vulnerable populations or to refer identified victims for protective services, and foreign trafficking victims have been deported from Botswana. During the reporting period, IO M identified 594 unaccompanied minors at the reception center in Plumtree for Zimbabweans deported from Botswana and expressed concern that some of them may have been victims of trafficking Botswana has an extensive public medical system, which includes psychological care facilities, and a university-run legal clinic which provides legal assistance to victims of any crime. It is unclear whether any trafficking victims received assistance at these facilities in 2009. Botswana's laws do not specifically protect victims of trafficking from penalization for unlawful acts committed as a direct result of being trafficked, but the government did not generally prosecute persons it believed to be victims of any crime.\n\nThe government made moderate efforts to prevent trafficking in and through Botswana. During the reporting period, the government did not complete or implement a national anti-trafficking plan of action it began developing in 2008. The government continued its participation with NGOs in an anti-trafficking working group. During the reporting period, the working group raised the issue of trafficking in the local press and within the government; fostered communication on trafficking issues between the government, NGOs, and other stakeholders; and laid the groundwork for drafting and implementing anti-TI P legislation. It produced and disseminated anti-trafficking education posters at all of its border posts and included trafficking awareness segments in some of its law enforcement training sessions. In early 2009, a partnership of NGOs and representatives from the government's police, labor, and social services responsible for issues of child labor, including the trafficking of children for forced labor, formed a child labor task force that met regularly throughout the reporting period. In mid-2009, the government funded the salaries of two ILO consultants to advise the government on how to strengthen both its laws on worst forms of child labor and enforcement of those laws. The task force began developing definitions for what constitutes \"hazardous work\" under child labor statutes and recommended changes within existing laws to standardize the definition of a \"child\" under different statutes. During the year, the Ministry of Labor conducted child labor inspections and removed at least one child from a situation of exploitative child labor. The government made efforts to reduce the demand for commercial sex acts, largely through a broad, well-publicized HIV /AIDS awareness campaign that discouraged commercial sex acts.\n\n"}
{"id": "14847986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14847986", "title": "IReport", "text": "IReport\n\niReport is CNN's citizen journalism initiative that allows people from around the globe to contribute pictures and video of breaking news stories. It is similar to Wikinews in that it allows, and encourages, ordinary citizens to submit stories, photos and videos related to news of any sort. This can range from breaking news to a story that a person believes is newsworthy. Submissions are not edited, fact-checked, or screened before they post. Stories that are verified are approved for use on all of CNN's platforms. The program was launched on August 2, 2006 to take advantage of the newsgathering capabilities of citizens at the scene of notable events. iReport grew out of another related program: CNN's Fan Zone, which allowed viewers to contribute pictures and video from the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany.\n\nThe tsunami caused by the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and the 7 July 2005 London bombings gave citizen journalists at the scene the opportunity to report on the events as they experienced them. Pictures from both were difficult to obtain in the moments after each tragedy. Broadcast news outlets, depending on agency or bureau video, were fortunate to receive submissions from people on the scene. Developing this format became a necessity for cable and network news shows.\n\nAs of January 2012, there were more than a million registered iReport members. In January 2015 iReport was moved from direct access on the www.cnn.com website with a dramatic reduction in the number of views for stories. Many of the original senior staff members have moved or departed. The success of iReport has been utilized for specific programs, like the 2007 New Year's Eve coverage featuring iParty in which viewers' photos of their celebrations were shown on television. CNN producers also regularly provide \"assignments\", for possible inclusion in upcoming coverage.\n\nAlthough iReport proved popular from its inception, one event in particular catapulted such citizen journalism onto the international stage. On April 16, 2007, video submitted by graduate student Jamal Albarghouti captured the sounds of gunfire during the Virginia Tech massacre. CNN paid Albarghouti an undisclosed amount for the exclusive rights to the video he shot on his mobile phone. The immediacy of the pictures demonstrated the potential for such content.\n\nOn August 1, 2007, many of the earliest pictures and eyewitness accounts of the I-35W Mississippi River bridge collapse in Minneapolis, Minnesota were submitted to iReport.\n\nIn 2008, iReport generated controversy for a false report about Steve Jobs' health, which caused Apple's stock to temporarily drop. The hoax was attributed to users of the web forum 4chan.\n\nOther instances where CNN iReport was being blown up with submissions are during Hurricane Sandy and the Boston Marathon Bombing. Although many citizen journalists have submitted articles to the site, many of them were not credible. This started much controversy for the webpage regarding ethical beliefs.\n\nIn 2011, CNN held the first iReport Awards, with awards being given for seven categories: breaking news, personal story, compelling imagery, commentary, original reporting, interview, and community choice.\n\nIn January 2008 CNN acquired Ireport.com and I-report.com for $750,000. A beta version of the site launched on Wednesday, February 13, 2008. The site, which had its complete launch in March 2008, allows users to submit media and have it instantly appear on the site. CNN Producers will then go through the online submission and select reports for possible airing on the CNN television networks, CNN.com and other CNN platforms. The site also allows iReporters to contact each other. The site functions similar to YouTube and popular social.\n\nThe New York Times described the word \"I-reporter\" as one of 2007's buzzwords: a word which endured long enough to find a place in the national conversation.\n\nCNN International aired \"iReport for CNN\". It was a weekly half-hour TV program showcasing iReport contributions. It was hosted by Errol Barnett. \"News to Me\" featured viewer-submitted content, along with other videos supplied by Blip.tv, Jumpcut.com, and Revver.com.\n\niReport and other phenomenon billed as 'citizen journalism' by corporate news networks often offer no pay to contributors including photo and video contributions. While users are granted copyright to their contributions, they often are forced to relinquish control of who uses their work and where their images and video are shown worldwide.\n\nCNN has also been criticized by insufficiently distinguishing iReport stories from its own output. There have been several cases where hoax stories placed on that service were given credence by their apparent connection to CNN, for example a story about an impending asteroid impact, and several stories regarding Apple Computer that significantly influenced its stock price.\n\n"}
{"id": "27712410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27712410", "title": "Inhalation exposure", "text": "Inhalation exposure\n\nInhalation is a major route of exposure that occurs when an individual breathes in polluted air which enters the respiratory tract. Identification of the pollutant uptake by the respiratory system can determine how the resulting exposure contributes to the dose. In this way, the mechanism of pollutant uptake by the respiratory system can be used to predict potential health impacts within the human population.\n\nExposure is commonly understood to be the concentration of the airborne pollutant in the air at the mouth and nose boundary. Outdoor concentrations are often measured at fixed sites or estimated with models. The fraction of this ambient concentration that is inhaled by a person depends mainly on their location (indoor or outdoor), distance to pollution sources and their minute ventilation. Traditionally exposure is estimated based on outdoor concentrations at the residential address. Trips to other locations and physical activity level are mostly neglected although some recent studies have attempted to use portable and wearable sensors.\n\nIntake dose is the mass of the pollutant that crosses the contact boundary and is inhaled by the individual. Some of this pollutant is exhaled, and the fraction that is absorbed by the respiratory system is known as the absorbed dose. A portion of the pollutant may also be expelled by sneezing, coughing, spitting, or swallowing. The remaining pollutant that is transported through the liquid layer, making contact with the respiratory tract tissues is the fraction of bioavailability, called the effective dose.\n\nIn 1970, the Clean Air Act Amendments set six criteria air pollutants which are updated periodically by the National Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) and the U.S Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA). The six criteria pollutants were identified based on scientific knowledge of health effects caused by the pollutants. The six criteria are the following: particulate matter (PM), nitrogen oxide , ozone , sulfur dioxide , carbon monoxide (CO), and nonmethane hydrocarbons (NHMC). Particulate matter (PM) is divided into two sizes, PM which is called inhalable PM, and PM, which is called fine PM.\n\nThe diffusion of from the air in the lungs to the bloodstream, and diffusion of from the bloodstream back out to the lungs is an essential part of human respiration. The absorption and diffusion of gases is a bidirectional process. Once the gases are absorbed into the mucus or surfactant layer, the dissolved gases can desorb back to the air in the lungs. Gases may diffuse in either direction depending on the concentration gradient between the two layers. Gases may react chemically during transport into the bloodstream.\n\nEstimates of the resistance for gas mucus and tissue in the terminal bronchioles for , , and CO show that has the quickest uptake due to its high aqueous solubility and very low resistance of mucus and tissue layers. Ozone and CO, have lower aqueous solubilities and higher resistance to mass transfer. Ozone is the most reactive, reducing mass transfer into tissue and blood. CO has the slowest uptake and the highest resistance into the terminal bronchioles.\nThe deposition of particulate pollutants into the lungs is necessary before the particles can travel through the mucus into the lung tissue. There are four mechanisms of deposition: interception, impaction, gravitational settling, and Brownian diffusion. Interception happens when a particle is removed after brushing up against an obstacle. Impaction happens when the particle collides into the surface of the respiratory tract due to the high inertia. Gravitational settling is influenced by the force of gravity which causes the particle to settle on the respiratory tract. Brownian motion causes the random collision of gas molecules against the particle, until the particle goes into the respiratory tract.\n\nPrediction of the location of particle deposition into the respiratory tract depends on the size and type of particle. Coarse particles, originating from natural sources such as dust, sand and gravel, tend to deposit in the nasal-pharyngeal region. Fine particles, derived from anthropogenic sources such as fossil fuels and smoking, typically deposit in the pulmonary region. Most gas exchange occurs in the pulmonary region due to the alveoli, which contain a large surface area.\n\nScientists have identified a positive correlation between particulate matter concentrations being the causative factor of respiratory and cardiovascular disease. Particulate matter may also be responsible for as many as 20,000 deaths annually, and exacerbation of asthma. Quantification of dose, determining total number of particles deposited in the pulmonary region, surface area of particles, acidity of particles, and shape are important in determining health impacts. A larger surface area will cause more toxins to be available for absorption into the mucus. Particles such as asbestos have the ability to become permanently enlodged into the alveoli causing cancer in some cases.\n\nSoluble particulate matter can be highly detrimental to the respirator tract because of their ability to dissolve into the mucus or surfactant layer. This can irritate tissues by changing pH, and transport into the rest of the body or gastrointestinal tract. Insoluble PM, such as lead particles, deposit in the nasal-pharyngeal region and can be cleared by blowing, sniffling, or spitting. However, swallowing can cause the particles to deposit into th GI tract. Particles in the tracheobronchial region can be cleared by the cilia, which will move particles into the mucus. Insoluble particles that enter the pulmonary region cause swelling of the alveoli, coughing, and shortness of breath.\n\nCarbon monoxide is a relatively nonreactive gas with limited solubility. High CO levels build up in the pulmonary region over several hours, and equilibrate with inhaled CO concentrations. Exposure to carbon monoxide is dangerous because of its toxic, odorless nature. Since the gas takes time to build up in the pulmonary region, an inhaled concentration of 600 ppm would cause a headache and reduce mental capacity within an hour, without any other symptoms. Eventually, the substance would induce a coma. Equilibrium of CO in the blood is reached between 6–8 hours of exposure to constant concentration in the air.\n\nA baseline level of carboxyhemoglobin, (COHb) is contained in the blood due to small quantities of CO as a by-product in the body. The total amount of COHb present within the body is equivalent to the COHb baseline level in addition to the COHb exogenous level.\n\n[COHb] total = [COHb] bas + [COHb] exo\n\n^ 1. Ott, W. R., Steinemann, A. C., & Wallace, L. A. (2007). Biomarkers of exposure. In W. R. Ott, A. C. Steinemann & L. A. Wallace (Eds.), Exposure analysis (pp. 395–404). Boca Raton, FL: Taylor & Francis.\n\n"}
{"id": "38650319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38650319", "title": "Jerome G. Miller", "text": "Jerome G. Miller\n\nJerome Gilbert Miller (December 8, 1931 – August 7, 2015) was an American social worker, academic and public sector corrections administrator, who was an authority on the reform of juvenile and adult corrections systems. He was a prominent advocate for alternatives to incarceration for offenders as well as for the de-institutionalization of individuals with developmental disabilities. His career involved university teaching, administration of juvenile justice services for three states, clinical work with offenders and advocacy for systemic change in public sector correctional services. Miller's work first drew national attention for his leadership in closing several juvenile reformatories in Massachusetts in the early 1970s. Miller went on to emerge as a prominent national advocate, administrator and educator working for systemic change in public sector corrections and disability service delivery systems. He was the co-founder of the National Center on Institutions and Alternatives.\n\nJerome Gilbert Miller was born on December 8, 1931 and grew up in Wahpeton, North Dakota. His parents were George Miller, a high school music teacher, and the former Beatrice Butts. He earned academic degrees from Maryknoll Seminary, Glen Ellyn, Il (B.A., 1954), Loyola University Chicago (M.S.W., 1957) and The Catholic University of America (D.S.W., 1965). After his undergraduate studies, he spent a year in a Maryknoll novitiate in Bedford, Massachusetts. Miller's doctoral studies concentrated in psychiatric social work, and he was qualified as a licensed clinical social worker.\n\nMiller was an Associate Professor in the School of Social Work at Ohio State University, when in 1969 he was chosen by Massachusetts Governor Francis Sargent to serve as the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Youth Services (DYS).\n\nWithin three years of leading DYS, Miller had shut down the state's two juvenile reformatories in favor of community based alternatives to incarceration. The first closure involving Lyman School for Boys in 1971, caught many juvenile justice professionals in the state by surprise. Lyman School was the first reformatory for delinquent adolescent boys to be established in the United States. Anticipating the possible closure of the Massachusetts Industrial School for Boys at Shirley, various forces tried to mobilize against it, but Miller was successful in closing the school in 1972. Highly controversial at the time, and still debated today, the basic deinstitutionalization reforms implemented by Miller in the state's juvenile justice services forty years ago are still in place today.\n\nRecognized as a successful reformer capable of taking on entrenched state-level systems overly reliant on institutionalizing children and adolescents, Miller moved to Illinois in 1973 to serve as the Director of Children and Family Services and then to Pennsylvania in 1975 to serve as the Commissioner of Children and Youth. From 1989 to 1994 Miller was the jail and prison monitor for Judge Howell W. Melton in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida. From 1995 to 1997 Miller served as the court appointed receiver for Washington D.C.'s child welfare system. As a leader and reformer in these jurisdictions, he sought to address and overcome the traumatizing consequences of incarceration, to maximize the use of community resources as alternatives to imprisonment, to lower the disproportionate rates of locking up youth of color, to reduce recidivism by improving offender outcomes and to reduce unsustainable costs associated with escalating levels of incarceration.\n\nIn 1977, together with Herbert J. Hoelter, Miller co-founded the National Center for Institutions and Alternatives (NCIA). The focus of NCIA involves sentencing advocacy, parole release advocacy and developing credible alternatives to incarceration and institutionalization. Miller has written and lectured widely on juvenile and adult corrections and strategies for promoting and implementing systemic reforms that utilize community-based alternatives to replace counterproductive and financially unsustainable institutionalization of offenders and developmentally disabled patients. Miller also served as the founder and clinical director of NCIA's Augustus Institute for Mental Health, named for John Augustus, known as the 'father of probation' for his pioneering efforts to promote offender rehabilitation in the United States.\n\nMiller died on August 7, 2015 in Woodstock, Virginia.\n\nJerome Miller's dramatic closure of two juvenile reformatories in Massachusetts in the early 1970s launched a forty year career as a pioneering administrator, educator and advocate for alternative models for responding to offenders and developmentally disabled persons. Miller's capacity to articulate the need for reform, to envision models for systems transformation and ability to implement institutional change have been widely acknowledged, sometimes condemned and often praised. Reflecting on Miller's impact on juvenile justice reform efforts since the early 1970s, Dan Macallair, executive director of the Center for Juvenile and Criminal Justice, writes, \"The closing of the Massachusetts reforms schools stands as the premier event in the history of American juvenile justice reform ...Miller set the course for the 21st century juvenile justice system and secured his place among history's great reformers\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7668824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7668824", "title": "Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command", "text": "Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command\n\nThe Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command (often referred to as JPAC) was a joint task force within the United States Department of Defense (DoD) whose mission was to account for Americans who are listed as Prisoners of War (POW), or Missing in Action (MIA), from all past wars and conflicts. It was especially visible in conjunction with the Vietnam War POW/MIA issue. The mission of the Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command was to achieve the fullest possible accounting of all Americans missing as a result of the nation's past conflicts. The motto of JPAC was \"Until they are home\".\n\nOn 30 January 2015, JPAC was officially deactivated by the Department of Defense. The Defense Department's efforts at reform followed a series of embarrassing scandals and damning revelations in reports and testimony before Congress starting in 2013 concerning failures in the effort to identify missing war dead. JPAC, the Defense POW/Missing Personnel Office (DPMO), and certain functions of the U.S. Air Force's Life Sciences Equipment Laboratory, were all merged into the new Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency.\n\nJPAC was a standing direct reporting unit within the United States Pacific Command. Its headquarters were located at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam in Hawaii.\n\nJPAC maintained three permanent overseas detachments, two local detachments, the Annex, Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska, and the European Liaison Office located on Miesau Army Depot, Germany; all devoted to the ongoing tasks of POW/MIA accounting. Each detachment was under the command of a field grade officer of the United States armed forces.\n\n\nJPAC's operations were divided into four areas: Analysis and Investigation, Recovery, Identification, and Closure.\n\nJPAC investigated leads concerning Americans who were killed in action but were never brought home. This process involved close coordination with other U.S. agencies involved in the POW/MIA issue. JPAC carried out technical negotiations and talks with representatives of foreign governments around the world in order to ensure positive in-country conditions were maintained or created for JPAC investigative and recovery operations wherever JPAC teams deployed in the world. If enough evidence was found, a site was recommended for recovery.\n\nJPAC had 18 Recovery Teams whose members traveled throughout the world to recover missing from past wars. A typical recovery team was made up of 10 to 14 people, led by a team leader and a forensic anthropologist. Other members of the team typically included a team sergeant, linguist, medic, life support technician, forensic photographer, RF systems communications technician/operator and an explosive ordnance disposal technician. Additional experts were added to the mission as needed, such as mountaineering specialists or divers.\n\nThe team carefully excavates the site and screens the soil to locate all possible remains and artifacts. In the case of an airplane crash, a recovery site may be quite large.\n\nOnce the recovery effort was completed, the team returned to Hawaii. All remains and artifacts found during the recovery operation were then transported from a U.S. military plane or private airline to JPAC's Central Identification Laboratory where identification took an average of 18 months; often cited statistics of 11 years include materials that were severely commingled (intentionally) from turnovers from the Korean People's Army in the mid-1990s. These materials only recently began to be identified used several different DNA techniques.\n\nUpon arrival at the laboratory, all remains and artifacts recovered from a site were signed over to the custody of the CIL and stored in a secure area. \nForensic anthropologists carefully analyze all remains and artifacts to determine the sex, race, age at death, and stature of the individual. Anthropologists also analyzed trauma caused at or near the time of death and pathological conditions of bone such as arthritis or previous healed breaks. \nLab scientists used a variety of techniques to establish the identification of missing Americans, including analysis of skeletal and dental remains, sampling mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), and analyzing material evidence, personal effects, aviation life-support equipment (gear used by aircrew: helmets, oxygen masks, harnesses, etc.), or other military equipment.\n\nOften, recovered military and personal equipment artifacts were forwarded to the USAF Life Sciences Equipment Laboratory (LSEL, located at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, in Dayton, OH), for advanced scientific and historical analysis. The LSEL (a highly unique scientific facility within the US and the world) was singularly qualified to scientifically study recovered military equipment artifacts and determine critical forensic aspects, to include, but not limited to: number of unaccounted for personnel represented at the loss site (i.e. 2 aviators), branch of military service represented (i.e. Navy), vehicle type represented (i.e. F-4 aircraft type), time frame represented (i.e. c. 1967), and represented levels of non-survivability or survivability (i.e. any evidence of fatal/non-fatal status).\nFrequently, the LSEL was able to provide crucial case determinations (through analysis of recovered equipment artifacts) when other critical evidence (such as human remains: bone or teeth) was not recovered or available, and/or does not yield any substantial conclusions through testing (i.e. DNA testing).\n\nThe recovery and identification process may take years to complete. The average identification time by the JPAC CIL was 18 months, excluding a vast amount of commingled remains turned over by North Korea, after remains arrived in the laboratory. In addition to the factors previously mentioned, each separate line of evidence was examined at the CIL (bones, teeth, and material evidence) and correlated with all historical evidence. All reports underwent a thorough peer review process that included an external review by independent experts. Additionally, if mtDNA was part of the process, the search for family reference samples for mtDNA comparison added a significant amount of time to the identification process because building a DNA database was not the purview of JPAC. Completed cases were forwarded to the appropriate service Mortuary Affairs office, whose members personally notified next-of-kin family members.\n\nJPAC conducted a number of missions each year in its ongoing efforts. The missions per year for individuals missing for each war:\n\nIn 2007 a JPAC team led by Maj. Sean Stinchon visited Iō-tō (formerly Iwo Jima) to hunt for the remains of Marine Sergeant Bill Genaust. He was the Marine combat photographer (motion picture cameraman) who was standing next to Joe Rosenthal, who filmed the Raising the Flag on Iwo Jima during the World War II invasion of the island. The team identified two possible cave entrances that may contain Genaust's remains. The JPAC team hopes to return and properly search the tunnels to possibly locate the remains of Sergeant Genaust, and those of other unaccounted for Marines.\n\nAn internal JPAC report, obtained by the Associated Press in July 2013, cited JPAC's management as being inept, mismanaged, and wasteful, to the extent that it could worsen from \"dysfunction to total failure\". In the Associated Press story's words, the report says \"the decades-old pursuit of bones and other MIA evidence is sluggish, often duplicative and subjected to too little scientific rigor\". The report notes that the JPAC Command is \"woefully inept and even corrupt\". The report notes that in recent years the process by which the JPAC Laboratory field recovery teams gathers bones and other material useful for identifications has \"collapsed\" and is now \"acutely dysfunctional.\" The report concludes that absent prompt and significant change, \"the descent from dysfunction to total failure … is inevitable.\" It accused the Command of maintaining inadequate databases of missing personnel, relying on unreliable maps, wasting money on unnecessary and useless travel and drastically failing to achieve targets set by the U.S. Congress. It said the organization paid out hundreds of thousands of dollars to North Korea to \"recover\" the remains of fallen U.S. servicemen whose bodies had been planted on former battlefields, and even used as laboratory skeletons. In the report it was stated that the average length of time for the JPAC laboratory to identify casualties increased from slightly over 4 years in 2005 to 11 years in 2011 for each set of remains that are recovered.\n\nA contrary viewpoint, expressed by author Wil S. Hylton, holds that while the command has suffered from bureaucratic tendencies, \"it is flat-out wrong to dismiss the work of JPAC as a failure. For every instance in which the unit moves more slowly than it could, there are many cases where JPAC field teams have delivered answers to a family that would otherwise be lost forever.\"\n\nNBC News also revealed during 2013 that, for years, the U.S. government has been fabricating phony \"arrival ceremonies\" during which the honored dead soldiers from the former battlefields were seemingly transported to their homeland by a cargo plane, but were actually not in existence at all. In addition, being towed into adequate positions, the planes used in the ceremonies often could not fly. This was confirmed by both the Department of Defense and the JPAC team with the explanations that \"part of the ceremony involves symbolically transferring the recovered remains from an aircraft\" and \"static aircraft are used for the ceremonies\".\n\nMultiple government investigations into JPAC were initiated in 2013, including ongoing Congressional hearings in both the House and Senate.\n\nThe POW/MIA effort by JPAC and a handful of agencies around the country, was fragmented, overlapped and hampered by inter-agency disputes, a July 2013 Government Accountability Office report said. In February 2014, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel directed the merging of JPAC and the Defense POW/Missing Personnel Office (DPMO), as well as certain functions of the U.S. Air Force's Life Sciences Equipment Laboratory, into a single, more accountable agency. In October 2014, a report by the DoD inspector general said poor leadership and a hostile work environment at JPAC could continue to plague the mission. The last commander of JPAC, Major General Kelly McKeague, was demoted to deputy commander and replaced by Rear Admiral Mike Franken. The JPAC Scientific Director, Thomas Holland, was replaced by Captain Edward Reedy.\n\nOn 30 January 2015, the merger into the new Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency became official, and JPAC ceased to be.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58796772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58796772", "title": "Judicial Conduct Investigations Office", "text": "Judicial Conduct Investigations Office\n\nJudicial Conduct Investigations Office (JCIO) is an independent statutory office in the England whose remit is to investigation allegations of Judicial misconduct. Their offices are located in the Royal Courts of Justice, London. Their role is to support the Lord Chancellor and Lord Chief Justice who share responsibility for judicial discipline in England and Wales. It was established on 1 October 2013 when it replaced the Office for Judicial Complaints. The equivalent in Scotland is the Judicial Complaints Reviewer. The body was created under the Constitutional Reform Act 2005.\n\nThe JCIO publishes \"Disciplinary statements\" when they issue a disciplinary sanction to a judicial office holder upon finding of misconduct. Such statements are deleted after one year for sanctions below removal from office, after five years when the sanction is removal from office. However the Lord Chancellor and Lord Chief Justice may, at their discretion, decline to publish a disciplinary statement.\n\n"}
{"id": "41869100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41869100", "title": "Kadakkal Riot Case", "text": "Kadakkal Riot Case\n\nKaddakkal Riot is one of the 39 movements/struggles that led to India getting freedom from the British Raj. It is known as the \"Kadakkal Riot Case\" and is recognized by the Home Ministry of Government of India. The struggle was led by Franco Raghavan Pillai. Kadakkal Riot Case was an important part of the Indian independence movement from Kerala.\n\nKadakkal Riot was centred on the village of Kadakkal, which is located in the eastern part of Kollam district, Kerala. It happened same as that of Kallara-Pangode Struggle(1938) on September 29, 1939.\n\nKadakkal is located 5 km east of Nilamel on Thiruvananthapuram – Angamaly Main Centre Road (MC Road). Kadakkal has been an important business centre for spice production and trade for a long time.\n"}
{"id": "841177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=841177", "title": "Lady-in-waiting", "text": "Lady-in-waiting\n\nA lady-in-waiting or court lady is a female personal assistant at a court, royal or feudal, attending on a royal woman or a high-ranking noblewoman. Historically, in Europe, a lady-in-waiting was often a noblewoman, but of lower rank than of the woman on whom she attended. Although she may either have been a retainer or may not have received compensation for the service she rendered, a lady-in-waiting was considered more of a courtesan or companion to her mistress than a servant.\n\nIn other parts of the world outside Europe, the lady-in-waiting, often referred to as \"palace woman\", was often in practice a servant or a slave rather than a high-ranking woman, but still had about the same tasks, functioning as companion and secretary to her mistress. In courts where polygamy was practiced, a court lady was formally available to the monarch for sexual services, and she could become his wife or concubine.\n\n\"Lady-in-waiting\" or \"court lady\" is often a generic term for women whose relative rank, title, and official functions varied, although such distinctions were also often honorary. A royal woman may or may not be free to select her ladies, and, even when she has such freedom, her choices are usually heavily influenced by the sovereign, her parents, her husband, or the sovereign's ministers (for example, in the Bedchamber Crisis).\n\nThe development of the office of lady-in-waiting in Europe is connected to that of the development of a royal court. During the Carolingian Empire in the 9th century, Hincmar describes the royal household of Charles the Bald in the \"De Ordine Palatii\" from 882, in which he states that court officials took orders from the queen as well as the king. Already Merovingian queens are assumed to have had their personal servants, and in the 9th century it is confirmed that Carolingian queens had an entourage of guards from the nobility as a sign of their dignity, and some officials are stated to belong to the queen rather than the king.\n\nIn the late 12th century, the queens of France are confirmed to have had their own household, and noblewomen are mentioned as ladies-in-waiting. During the Middle Ages, however, the household of a European queen consort was normally small and the number of actually employed ladies-in-waiting, rather than wives of noblemen accompanying their husbands to court, was very small: in 1286, the queen of France had only five ladies-in-waiting in her employ, and it was not until 1316 that her household was separated from that of the royal children.\n\nThe role of ladies-in-waiting in Europe changed dramatically during the age of the Renaissance, when a new ceremonial court life, where women played a significant part, developed as representation of power in the courts of Italy and spread to Burgundy, from Burgundy to France, and to the rest of the courts of Europe. The court of the Duchy of Burgundy was the most elaborate in Europe in the 15th century and became an example to France when the French royal court expanded in the late 15th century and introduced new offices for both men and women to be able to answer to the new renaissance ideal. From small circle of married \"femmes\" and unmarried \"filles\", with a relatively humble place in the background during the Middle Ages, the number of French ladies-in-waiting were rapidly expanded, divided into an advanced hierarchy with several offices and given an important and public role to play in the new ceremonial court life in early 16th-century France. This example was followed by other courts in Europe, where courts expanded and became more ceremonial during the 16th century, and the offices, numbers and visibility of women expanded in the early modern age.\n\nDuring the late 19th century and the early 20th century, however, most European courts started to reduce their court staff, often due to new economic and political circumstances which made court representation more questionable.\n\nThe duties of ladies-in-waiting varied from court to court, but functions historically discharged by ladies-in-waiting included proficiency in the etiquette, languages, and dances prevalent at court; secretarial tasks; reading correspondence to her mistress and writing on her behalf; embroidery, painting, horse riding, music making and participation in other queenly pastimes; wardrobe care; supervision of servants; keeping her mistress abreast of activities and personages at court, and discreetly relaying messages upon command.\n\nA number of tribes and cultural areas in the African continent, such as the Lobedu people of Southern Africa, had a similar custom on ladies-in-waiting in historic times.\n\nWithin certain traditional states of the Bini and Yoruba peoples in Nigeria, the queen mothers and high priestesses were considered \"ritually male\" due to their social eminence. Due to this fact, they were often attended on by women who belonged to their harems in much the same way as their actually male counterparts were served by women who belonged to theirs. Although these women effectively functioned as ladies-in-waiting, were often members of powerful families of the local nobility in their own right, and were not usually used for sexual purposes, they were none-the-less referred to as their principals' \"wives\".\n\nIn the late Middle Ages, when the court of the emperor no longer moved around constantly, the household of the empress, as well as the equivalent household of the German princely consorts, started to develop a less fluid and more strict organisation with set court offices.\n\nThe court model of the Duchy of Burgundy, as well as the Spanish court model, came to influence the organisation of the Austrian imperial court during the 16th-century, when the Burgundian Netherlands, Spain and Austria was united through the Habsburg dynasty. In the early and mid 16th-century, the female courtiers kept by female Habsburgs in the Netherlands and Austria was composed of one \"hofmesterees\" ('Court mistress') or \"dame d'honneur\" who served as the principal lady in waiting; one \"hofdame\" or \"Mere de filles\", who was second in rank and deputy of the \"hofmesterees\" as well as being in charge of the \"eredames\" (maid of honour), also known as \"demoiselle d'honneur\", \"fille d'honneur\" or \"Junckfrauen\" depending on language, and finally the chamber maids, \"kamenisters\". During the tenure of Maria of Austria, Holy Roman Empress in the mid 16th-century, however, the court of the empress was organised in accordance with the Spanish court model, and after she left Austria, there was no further household of an empress until the 1610s. This resulted in a mix of Burgundian and Spanish customs when the Austrian court model was created.\n\nIn 1619, a set organisation was finally established for the Austrian Imperial court which came to be the characteristic organisation of the Austrian-Habsburg court roughly kept from this point onward. The first rank of the female courtiers was the \"Obersthofmeisterin\" (Mistress of the Robes), who was second in rank after the empress herself, and responsible for all the female courtiers. Second rank belonged to the \"ayas\", essentially governesses of the imperial children and heads of the children's court. Third in rank was the \"Fräuleinhofmeisterin\": she was the replacement of the Obersthofmeisterin when necessary, but otherwise had the responsibility of the unmarried female courtiers, their conduct and service. The rest of the female noble courtiers consisted of the \"Hoffräulein\" (maid of honour), unmarried females from the nobility who normally served temporarily until marriage. The Hoffräulein could sometimes be promoted to \"Kammerfräulein\" (Maid of honor of the Chamber). The Austrian court model was the role model for the princely courts in Germany. The German court model in turn became the role model of the early modern Scandinavian courts of Denmark and Sweden.\n\nThe Kingdom of Belgium was founded in 1830, after which a royal court was founded, and ladies-in-waiting were appointed for Louise of Orléans when she became the first queen of Belgium in 1832. The female office holders of the queen's household was created from the French model and composed of one \"dame d'honneur\", followed by several ladies-in-waiting named \"dame du palais\", in turn over ranking the \"premiere femme du chambre\" and the \"femme du chambre\".\n\nThe ladies-in waiting have historically been chosen by the Queen herself from among the Catholic noble houses of Belgium. The chief functions at court were undertaken by members of the higher nobility, involving much contact with the royal ladies. Belgian princesses were assigned a lady upon their 18th birthday. Princess Clementine was given a \"Dame\" by her father, a symbolic act of adulthood. When the Queen entertains, the ladies welcome guests and assist the hostess in sustaining conversation.\n\nIn the current Royal Household of the United Kingdom, a Lady-in-Waiting is a woman attending a female member of the Royal Family. A woman attending on a Queen Regnant or Queen Consort is often (informally) known by the same title, but is more formally styled either: \"Woman of the Bedchamber\", \"Lady of the Bedchamber\" or \"Mistress of the Robes\", depending on which of these offices she holds. The Women are in regular attendance, but the Mistress of the Robes and the Ladies of the Bedchamber are normally required only for ceremonial occasions. The phrase \"Lady-in-Waiting to The Queen\" has, however, been used in formal documents to denote which of the Women is actually \"on duty\"\" at any one time.\"\n\nAs of 2016, the Senior Lady-in-Waiting to Queen Elizabeth II is Mistress of the Robes, Fortune FitzRoy, Duchess of Grafton. The other Ladies-in-Waiting are Virginia Ogilvy, Countess of Airlie; Diana, Lady Farnham; The Hon Mary Anne Morrison; The Lady Susan Hussey; The Lady Elton; The Hon Mrs Whitehead, (daughter of Frederick Millar, 1st Baron Inchyra); Jennifer Gibbs (Mrs Michael Gordon Lennox) and Philippa de Pass, wife of Lieutenant Commander Robert de Pass.\n\nIn Cambodia, the term \"ladies-in-waiting\" refers to high ranking female servants who served food and drink, fanned and massaged, and sometimes provided sexual services to the King. Conventionally, these women could work their way up from maids to ladies-in-waiting, concubines, or even queen consort. \"Srey Snom\" () is the Cambodian term for the Khmer \"lady-in-waiting\".\n\nThe six favorite court ladies of King Sisowath of Cambodia were probably initially drawn from the ranks of classical royal dancers of the lower class. He was noted for having the most classical dancers as concubines. The imperial celestial dancer, Apsara, was one of these. This practice of drawing from the ranks of royal dancers began in the Golden Age of the Khmer Kingdom. \n\nThe ladies-in-waiting in China, referred to as \"palace women\", \"palace ladies\" or \"court ladies\", were all formally if not always in practice a part of the emperors harem, regardless of their task, and could be promoted by him to the rank of official concubine, consort or even empress. Already the emperors of the Han dynasty in antiquity is reported to have had a harem of thousands of \"palace women\", although the actual numbers is unconfirmed.\n\nAt least during the Song dynasty (960–1279), the palace women were divided in three groups: Imperial women, consisting of concubines and consorts; Imperial daughters, consisting of daughters and sisters of the emperor; and the female officials and assistants, who performed a wide range of tasks and could potentially be promoted to that of concubine or consort. Women from official elite families could be chosen to become empress, consort or concubine immediately upon their entrance to the palace, but the emperor could also promote any female court official to that post, as they were officially all members of his harem. The female court officials and attendants were normally selected from trusted families and educated for their task, which could be a wide range from female attendant to an Imperial woman, musician, chamber maid or official with the task to organize court functions.\n\nThis system was roughly the same during the Qing dynasty (1644–1912), when there were also a class of Imperial women selected immediately as consorts or concubines, but the class of female court attendants were all available to be promoted to concubines and consorts by the emperor. During the Qing dynasty Imperial women were selected from among the teenage daughters of the Manchu official banner families, who were drafted to an inspection as imperial consorts or concubines before they could marry. Similarly, \"palace maids\" were drafted from lower official and banner classes before they could marry. After their selection, palace maids were educated as personal attendants to consorts, female officials within court rituals or other tasks, and were also available for the emperor to promote to consort or concubine. Below the palace maids were the maidservants, who were selected the same way by a draft among the daughters of soldiers.\n\nThe early modern Danish court was organized according to the German court model, in turn inspired by the Imperial Austrian court model, from the 16th century onward. The highest rank female courtier to a female royal was the \"hofmesterinde\" (Court Mistress) or, from 1694/98 onward, \"Overhofmesterinde\" (Chief Court Mistres), equivalent to the Mistress of the Robes, normally an elder widow, who supervised the rest of the ladies-in-waiting. The rest of the female courtiers were composed of one \"Kammerfrøken\" (Senior Maid of Honour), followed by a group of \"hofdame\" ('court lady') with the title of \"Hoffrøken\" (maid of honour). They were followed by the non noble female court employees not ranking as ladies-in-waiting, such as the chamber maids. \n\nThis hierarchy was roughly in place from the 16th century until the death of king Christian IX of Denmark in 1906. During the 20th century most of these titles came of use and all ladies-in-waiting at the royal Danish court are now referred to as \"hofdame\" ('court lady').\n\nIn the Middle Ages, Margaret of France, Queen of England is noted to have had seven ladies-in-waiting: the three married ones were called \"Domina\" and the four unmarried maid of honour, but no principal lady-in-waiting is mentioned, and until the 15th-century, the majority of the office holders of the queen's household were still male.\n\nAs late as in the mid 15th-century, queen Elizabeth Woodville had still only five ladies-in-waiting, but in the late 15th-century and early 16th-century, ladies-in-waiting were given a more dominant place at the English court, in parallel with the development in France and the continental courts. The court life of the Duchy of Burgundy served as an example when Edward IV created the \"Black Book of the Household\" in 1478, and the organisation of the English royal household was essentially set from that point onward.\n\nQueen Elizabeth of York had numerous ladies-in-waiting, which was reported by the Spanish ambassador Rodrigo de Puebla as something unusual and astonishing: \"the Queen has thirty-two ladies, very magnificent and in splendid style\". Elizabeth of York reportedly had 36 ladies-in-waiting, eighteen of them noblewomen; in 1502, a more complete account summarized them as sixteen \"gentlewomen\", seven maids of honor and three \"chamberers—women\", who attended to her in the bedchamber. Aside from the women formally employed as ladies-in-waiting, the queen's female retinue in reality also consisted of\nthe daughters and the ladies-in-waiting of her ladies-in-waiting, who also resided in the queen's household.\n\nThe duties of ladies-in-waiting at the Tudor court were to act as companions in public and in private; to accompany her wherever she went; to entertain her with music, dance or singing; and to dress her, bathe her and help her use the lavatory, as a royal person, by the standards of the day, was not supposed to do anything by themselves, but was always to be waited upon in all daily tasks as a sign of their status. Ladies-in-waiting were appointed by recommendation of their social status as members of the nobility, court officials, knights and military officers; and because they were expected to be supporters of the dynasty or the royal woman because of their relatives. When the queen was not a foreigner, her relatives were often appointed as they were presumed to be trustworthy and loyal; Lady Margaret Lee was a Lady of the Privy Chamber to Queen Anne Boleyn, just as Lady Elizabeth Seymour-Cromwell was to Queen Jane Seymour. \n\nThe organization of the Queen's ladies-in-waiting was set in the period of the Tudor court. The ladies-in-waiting were headed by the Mistress of the Robes, followed in rank by the First Lady of the Bedchamber, who supervised the group of Lady of the Bedchamber (typically wives or widows of peers above the rank of earl), in turn followed by the group of Woman of the Bedchamber (usually a daughter of a peer) and finally the group of Maid of honour, whose service entitled them to the style of \"The Honourable\" for life. \nThe system has formally remained roughly the same since the Tudor period. However, in practice, many offices have since then been left vacant. For example, in recent times, Maids of Honour have only been appointed for coronations.\n\nThe queen of France is confirmed to have had a separate household in the late 12th-century, and an ordinance from 1286 notes that the queen of France, queen Joan I of Navarre, had a group of five ladies (\"Dames\") and maids-in-waiting (\"Damoiselles\"): in the 1480s, French ladies-in-waiting were divided into \"Femmes mariées\" (married ladies-in-waiting) and \"Filles d’honneur\" (maid of honour). However, the queen's household and the number of female courtiers during the Middle Ages was very small in France, as in most European courts: it was not until the end of the 15th-century and early 16th-century that emulation of the new courts of the Italian Renaissance made ladies-in-waiting fashionable in official court ceremonies and representation, and female court offices became more developed and numerous in the French court as well as in other European courts. The introduction of ladies-in-waiting increased in great numbers at the French court at this time: from a mere five in 1286 and still only 23 in 1490, to 39 in 1498 and circa 54 during the 16th-century. This expansion of female presence at court has been attributed to both Anne of Brittany, who encouraged all male courtiers to send their daughters to her, and to Francis I of France, who was criticized for bringing to court \"the constant presence\" of large crowds of women, who gossiped and interfered in state affairs; Francis I once said: ‘a court without ladies is a court without a court’.\n\n\n\n\n\nDuring the First Empire, the principal lady in waiting of the empress was the \"dame d'honneur\", followed by between 20 and 36 \"dames du palais\". During the Bourbon Restoration, Marie Thérèse of France restored the pre-revolutionary court hierarchy. During the Second Empire, the female courtiers of the empress was composed by the first rank \"Grand-Maitresse \" and the second rank \"dame d'honneur\", followed by six (later twelve) \"dames du palais\".\n\nThe early modern Princely courts in Germany were modeled after the imperial Austrian court model. This court model divided the ladies-in-waiting in an chief lady-in-waiting named \"Oberhofmeisterin\" (a widowed or married elder woman) who supervised the \"hoffräulein\" (maids of honour), of which one or two could be promoted to the middle rank of \"Kammerfräulein\" (maid of honour of the chamber). The princely German courts in turn became the role model of the Scandinavian courts of Denmark and Sweden in the 16th-century.\n\nAfter the end of the German Roman Holy Empire in 1806 and the establishment of several minor kingdoms in Germany, the post of \"Staatsdame\" (married ladies-in-waiting) were introduced in many German princely and royal courts. At the Imperial German court, the ladies-in-waiting were composed of one \"Oberhofmeisterin\" in charge of several \"Hofstaatsdamen\" or \"Palastdamen\".\n\nDuring the Byzantine Empire, the Byzantine empress was attended by a female court (the \"sekreton tōn gynaikōn\"), which consisted mostly of the wives of high-ranking male court officials, who simply wore the feminine versions of their husbands' titles. The only specifically female dignity was that of the \"Zoste patrikia\", the chief lady-in-waiting and female attendant of the empress, who was the head of the women's court and often a relative of the empress; this title existed at least since the 9th-century.\n\nThe Kingdom of Greece was established in 1832 and its first queen Amalia of Oldenburg organized the ladies-in-waiting of its first royal court in one Grande-Maitresse, followed by the second rank \"dame d'honneur\", and the third rank \"dame de palais\".\n\nPrior to unification, the greatest of the Italian states was the Kingdom of Naples, later called Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. The ladies-in-waiting of the of queen the Two Sicilies were, in 1842 composed of one \"Dama di Onore\" or 'Lady of Honor', placed in rank as number two after the \"Cavaliere di Onore\", and followed by three \"Dama di Compagnia\" or 'Lady Companions' (number four in rank after the Cavalerizzo) and a large number of \"Dame di Corte\" or 'Court Ladies'. \n\nItaly was united in to the Kingdom of Italy in 1861. The ladies-in-waiting of the queen of Italy was headed by the \"Dama d’Onore\", followed by the \"Dame di Corte\", and finally the \"Dame di Palazzo\". The Dama d’Onore was nominally the chief lady-in-waiting, but in practice often limited her service to state occasions; the \"Dame di Corte\" was the regular ladies-in-waiting who personally attended to the queen, while the \"Dame di Palazzo\" was honorary courtiers attached to the royal palaces in particular cities, such as Florence, Turin and so forth, and only served temporary when the queen visited the city in question: among these, only the \"Dame di Palazzo\" attached to the royal palace of the capital of Rome served more than temporary.\n\nIn Japan, the imperial court offices was normally reserved for members of the court aristocracy and the ladies-in-waiting or \"palace attendants\" were commonly educated members of the nobility.\n\nDuring the Heian period (794–1185) women could hold court offices of substantial responsibility, managing the affairs of the emperor. Female palace attendants were employed by the imperial Bureau of Palace Attendants from among the court aristocracy, but were required to be of sufficient education in Chinese classics to be accepted.\n\nDuring the Sengoku period (1467–1603), the highest rank of a lady-in-waiting was \"female assistant to the major counselor\", who ran the affairs of the daily life of the imperial household. The second rank was \"hoto no naishi\" (\"female palace attendant\"), who acted as intermediary between the emperor and those seeking audience and issued his wishes in writing. Ladies-in-waiting acted as imperial secretaries and noted the events at court, visitors and gifts in the official court journals.\n\nIn contrast to China, women \"palace attendants\" managed the palace of the imperial harem rather than eunuchs, and could hold high court offices in the emperors personal household.\nFemale palace attendants were divided in two classes, which in turn had several ranks, signifying their task. The first class consisted of the \"nyokan\" or ladies-in-waiting who held court offices, \"naishi-kami\" (shoji) \"naishi-suke\" (tenji) and \"naishi-no-jo\" (shoji) and the second class was the female palace attendants \"myobu\", \"osashi\", \"osue\", \"nyoju\". The ladies-in-waiting worked as personal assistants, tending the emperors' wardrobe, assisting the emperors' baths, serving meals, performing and attending court rituals. Ladies-in-waiting could be appointed concubines, consorts or even empresses by the emperor or the heir to the throne. The function of a lady-in-waiting as potential concubine was abolished in 1924.\n\n\"Gungnyeo\" (literally \"palace women\") is a Korean term referring to women who wait upon the King and other royalty in traditional Korean society. It is short for \"gungjung yeogwan\", which translates as \"a lady officer of the royal court\".\n\n\"Gungnyeo\" includes \"sanggung\" (palace matron) and \"nain\" (assistant court ladies), both of which hold rank as officers. The term is also used more broadly to encompass women in a lower class without a rank such as \"musuri\" (lowest maids in charge of odd chores), \"gaksimi\", \"sonnim\", \"uinyeo\" (female physicians) as well as \"nain\" and \"sanggung\".\n\nThe court of the Duchy of Burgundy, which was situated in the Netherlands in the 15th-century, was famous for its elaborate ceremonial court life and became a role model for several other courts of Europe. The Burgundian court model came to be the role model for the Austrian imperial court during the 16th-century, when the Burgundian Netherlands and Austria was united through the Habsburg dynasty.\n\nIn the 16th-century, the ladies-in-waiting in the courts of the Habsburg governors of the Netherlands, Margaret of Austria and Mary of Hungary (governor of the Netherlands), was composed of one \"hofmeesteres\" ('Court mistress') or \"dame d'honneur\" who served as the principal lady in waiting; one \"hofdame\" or \"Mere de filles\", who was second in rank and deputy of the \"hofmesterees\" as well as being in charge of the \"eredames\" (maid of honour), also known as \"demoiselle d'honneur\", \"fille d'honneur\" or \"Junckfrauen\", and finally the chamber maids, \"kameniersters\", all with different titles depending on language in the multilingual area of the Netherlands.\n\nThe Kingdom of the Netherlands was founded in 1815, signifying the organisation of a royal court. In the 19th-century, the ladies-in-waiting of the Dutch court was headed by the \"Grootmeesteres\" ('Grand Mistress', equivalent to Mistress of the Robes), of second rank was the \"Dames du Palais\" (married ladies-in-waiting), followed by the third rank \"Hofdames\" ('court ladies', equivalent to maid of honour). \n\n\nDuring the union of Denmark-Norway from 1380 until 1814, the Danish royal court in Copenhagen was counted as the Norwegian royal court, and thus there was not royal court present in Norway during this period. During the union between Norway and Sweden from 1814 to 1905, there were Norwegian courtiers appointed who served during the Swedish royal family's visits to Norway. The female courtiers were appointed according to the Swedish court model, that is to say the class of \"hovfröken\" (Maid of honor); \"kammarfröken\" (Chief Maid of Honor) and \"statsfru\" (Lady of the Bedchamber), all supervised by the \"overhoffmesterinne\" (Mistress of the Robes): these posts were first appointed in 1817. When the union between Sweden and Norway was dissolved in 1905, a permanent Norwegian royal court was established.\n\nIn the court of Muscovite Russia, the offices of lady-in-waiting to the Tsarina were normally divided among the \"boyarinas\" (widows or wives of boyars), often from the family and relatives of the Tsarina. The first rank among the offices of the ladies-in-waiting were the Tsarina's Treasurer; the second were the group of companions; the third were the royal nurses to the princes and princesses (where the nurses of the male children over ranked); among the nurses, the most significant post was that of the \"mamok\", the head royal governess, who were normally selected from elder widows, often relatives to the Tsar or Tsarina. All offices were appointed by royal decree. The group of ladies-in-waiting were collectively above the rank of the \"Svetlichnaya\", the tsarina's sewing women; the \"postelnitsy\" (the tsarina's chamber women and washing women) and the officials who handled the affairs of the staff.\n\nIn 1722, this system was abolished and the Russian Imperial court was reorganized in accordance with the reforms of Peter the Great to Westernize Russia, and the old court offices of the Tsarina was replaced with court offices inspired by the German model; see Lady-in-waiting of the Imperial Court of Russia.\n\nThe royal court of Castile included a group of ladies-in-waiting for the queen named \"camarera\" in late 13th-century and early 14th-century, but it was not until the 15th-century that a set organisation of the ladies-in-waiting is confirmed. This characteristic organisation of the Spanish ladies-in-waiting was roughly established already during the reign of Isabella I of Castile (r. 1474–1504), was kept by Empress Isabella during the 16th century, and became the standard Spanish court model for ladies-in-waiting.\n\n\nThe early modern Swedish court, as well as the Danish equivalent, were re-organized in the early 16th century according to the German court model, in turn inspired by the Imperial Austrian court model.\nThis model roughly organized the female noble courtiers in the class of the unmarried \"hovfröken\" (maid of honor, until 1719 \"hovjungfru\") which could be promoted to \"kammarfröken\" (Chief Maid of Honor: until 1719 \"kammarjungfru\"). They were supervised by the \"hovmästarinna\" (Court Mistress, equivalent to Mistress of the Robes), normally a married or widowed elder noblewoman. Under this class of female noble courtiers, were the non-noble female servants. They were headed by the normally married \"kammarfru\" (Mistress of the Chamber, roughly equivalent to a Ladies Maid), often of burgher background, who supervised the group of \"kammarpiga\" (Chamber Maid)\n\nFrom the reign of Queen Christina, the \"hovmästarinna\" was supervised by the \"överhovmästarinna\" (Chief Court Mistress). In 1774, the post of \"statsfru\" (Mistress of the State) was introduced, which was the title for the group of married ladies-in-waiting with rank between the \"hovmästarinna\" and the \"kammarfröken\". The Swedish court staff was reduced in size in 1873. The new court protocols of 1911 and 1954 continued this reduction, and many court posts was abolished or no longer filled.\n\nWith the exception of the \"statsfru\" and the \"överhovmästarinna\", none of the titles above are longer in use. At the death of Queen Louise in 1965, her \"överhovmästarinna\" was employed by the King. From 1994, the \"överhovmästarinna\" are the head of the court of the King rather than the Queen, while the court of the Queen is headed by the \"statsfru\". There are now only one \"statsfru\", and the other ladies-in-waiting are simply referred to as \"hovdam\" ('Court Lady'). Queen Silvia of Sweden has only three \"hovdamer\" ('court ladies'). Her chief lady-in-waiting is the \"statsfru\".\n\n\"These are a list of particularly well known and famous ladies-in-waiting of each nation listed. More can be found in their respective category.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1120207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1120207", "title": "Law enforcement in Australia", "text": "Law enforcement in Australia\n\nLaw enforcement in Australia is one of the three major components of the country's justice system, along with courts and corrections. There are law enforcement officers employed by all three levels of government – federal, state / territory, and local.\n\nFederally, the main law enforcement agency is the Australian Federal Police (AFP), which has a wide mandate to enforce Australian criminal law and protect its national interests. There are also a number of other agencies that have powers confined to specific areas, such as national security (ASIO), customs and immigration (ABF), and white-collar crime (ATO, ACCC, ASIC). Each branch of the Australian Defence Force (ADF) has its own military police, although there is also an overarching ADF Investigative Service for more complex investigations.\n\nAs each Australian state enacts its own laws, general law enforcement duties are the responsibility of state police forces, who are in turn responsible to a government minister (usually the Minister for Police). These forces carry out the bulk of general policing throughout the entire state, including in metropolitan areas. Other state-government departments may also have investigative powers for specific offences within their purview. The Northern Territory also has its own police force, but in Australia's other territories (including the Australian Capital Territory) law enforcement is handled by the federal government.\n\nAustralian state and federal police routinely carry firearms. While on duty, most officers' duty belts consist of a handgun, a Taser, an expandable baton, pepper spray, a set of handcuffs, ammunition magazines, gloves, torch and a two-way radio. Local governments have their own smaller force of authorised officers – known as council rangers – to enforce local laws pertaining solely to individual local government jurisdictions. Council rangers generally do not have full police powers (unless they are sworn as special constables).\n\nThe primary federal law enforcement agency in Australia is the Australian Federal Police. The AFP are responsible for the investigation of federal offences (crimes against the Commonwealth) and have federal jurisdiction throughout Australia. They provide protective services to federal government property and personnel/dignitaries, including major airports, buildings, foreign embassies/diplomats etc. and provide state-styled law enforcement services to external territories and the Australian Capital Territory (and in turn Jervis Bay Territory), the only of the two major mainland territories to not maintain its own state(/territory) police. The boundaries between the two levels of law enforcement are somewhat flexible and both state and federal police co-operate on or transfer cases between each other depending on the specific circumstances. State police can enforce federal, state and local laws, but federal police cannot enforce state or local laws.\n\nThe AFP also provides liaison officers to various overseas posts to assist in relations with various police forces overseas, as well as providing community policing to assist in the development of foreign law enforcement agencies and peacekeeping operations in locations such as the Solomon Islands with the RAMSI Mission and Cyprus.\n\nThe AFP was created in 1979, having been the result of an amalgamation of the now defunct Commonwealth Police and Australian Capital Territory Police Force. This makes it quite young as many of the various state police forces were established in the 19th century.\n\nThe Australian Border Force is responsible for customs and immigration enforcement and border protection at Australia's ports as well as in Australian waters, and conducts investigations where the AFP does not have primary jurisdiction. Unlike AFP Officers, Border Force Officers do not have fully vested federal police powers, only arrest and detain powers at Airport jurisdiction. They may however detain persons for state or federal crimes or warrants until that person can be presented to a federal or state law enforcement officer with the appropriate powers. Australian Border Force officers have the authority to carry firearms where a supervisor gives approval. In practice only maritime officers and specialist counter terrorism officers carry firearms.\n\nMilitary Police, also known as Service Police, are the law enforcement branches of the services of a military tasked with enforcing, and investigating offences against, military law. In Australia, each service of the Australian Defence Force maintains its own independent police force made up of military personnel from that service. Along with the independent service police forces is the Australian Defence Force Investigative Service, a special ADF unit made up of Investigators from each service's police and tasked with investigating more serious military offences.\n\nLaw enforcement duties in the Australian Army are provided by the Royal Australian Corps of Military Police. MPs provide everything from general law enforcement duties on military installations to investigations, close personal protection and more.\n\nThe Australia New Zealand Policing Advisory Agency (ANZPAA) was established in October 2007. ANZPAA is a joint initiative of the Australian and New Zealand Police Commissioners and funded by contributions to Australia and New Zealand Police jurisdictions. ANZPAA is a non-operational policing agency which provides strategy and policy advice, and secretariat services to the ANZPAA Board on cross-jurisdictional policing initiatives that help enhance community safety and security. ANZPAA's strategic direction is set by ANZPAA’s board and the Australia New Zealand Council of Police Professionalisation (ANZCoPP, formerly Australasian Police Professional Standards Committee, APPSC). More information www.anzpaa.org.au\n\nThe Australasian Police Professional Standards Committee (APPSC) was an organisation that served all police jurisdictions around Australia and New Zealand. It was the body for police education and training in Australia and New Zealand; the council comprising each of the police commissioners from Australia and New Zealand along with the president of the Police Federation of Australia and the president of the New Zealand Police Association. On 9 November 2007, APPSC roles and functions were amalgamated into ANZPAA. In 2013, APPSC was retitled to the Australia New Zealand Council of Police Professionalisation.\n\nCrime Stoppers programs run in each state and nationally. Crime Stoppers collects information about crime and passes it on to the police ensuring that the community can participate in crime fighting.\n\nCrimTrac is an intergovernmental policing agency that supports Australian policing through the provision of forensic and other information and investigative tools between state and federal police departments. The National Automated Fingerprint Identification System (NAFIS) is national fingerprint database, administered by CrimTrac.\n\nEach state as well as the Northern Territory is responsible for maintaining its own police force which is responsible for policing at the state and local level. This involves general law and order, traffic policing, major crime, anti-terrorism branches, water police, search and rescue and in some states transit police. Local policing in the Australian Capital Territory, Jervis Bay Territory and Australia's external territories is contracted to the Australian Federal Police (AFP).\n\nIn some states, local governments employ by-laws officers or rangers to enforce local by-laws or ordinances relating to such matters as parking, dog ownership, retailing, littering or water usage. These local government officers are not considered to be police forces as they generally only have the power to issue fines and do not have the same powers as state police. They may rely upon appointment as a special constable or legislated powers for their authority.\n\nState police also perform certain functions on behalf of the Australian government such as the enforcement of various Commonwealth Acts and regulations in conjunction with the Australian Federal Police and other Commonwealth officers.\n\nWhile ACT policing is under the jurisdiction of the Australian Federal Police, the following policing agencies are regulated by their respective state or territory government and are highly visible:\n\nIn recent years, the states and territories have returned the responsibility of recovering court ordered fines to their sheriffs. In practice, the police often carry out the functions of sheriffs and bailiffs in rural and more sparsely populated areas of Australia.\n\nThe office of sheriff was first established in Australia in 1824. This was simultaneous with the appointment of the first Chief Justice of New South Wales. The role of the sheriff has not been static, nor is it identical in each Australian state. In the past a shefiff's duties included: executing court judgements, acting as a coroner, the transportation of prisoners, managing the jails, and carrying out executions (through the employment of an anonymous hangman).\n\nCurrently, no Australian state provides for capital punishment. A government department (usually called the Department of Corrections or similar) now runs the prison system and the coroner's office handles coronial matters. The sheriff is now largely responsible for enforcing the civil orders and fines of the court by seizing and selling the property of judgement debtors who do not satisfy the debt, providing court security, enforcing arrest warrants, evictions, taking juveniles into custody and running the jury system. Some state sheriffs can also apply a wide range of sanctions ranging from suspending driver's licences and car registration through to wheel clamping and arranging community service orders, and as a last resort can make arrests.\n\nCouncil rangers are officers employed by local government areas in Australia to enforce the by-laws (local laws in Western Australia); of those local governments and a limited range of state laws relating to such matters as litter control, animal control, dog laws, fire control, off-road vehicles, emergency management, and parking. Unless they are also sworn in as special constables, as many are, rangers do not have full police powers. Council rangers are also referred to as local laws officers in some of Australia's eastern states. Most Council rangers have the power to issue fines that don't exceed a certain amount.\n\nBy agreement between the various commissioners, most police cars in Australia are predominantly white, with a blue and white Sillitoe tartan checkered strip on the side. Some jurisdictions' highway patrol units and police also have fluorescent stripes surrounding the tartan. Most general patrol cars are Holden Commodores, Toyota Camrys, or Ford Falcons, but with Australian production of all models ending as of 2017, replacements have been sought, including the Chrysler 300 SRT, BMW 530d., Kia Stinger \n\nPrisoner transport vehicles are based on light commercial vehicles such as the Ford Ranger, Toyota Hilux, Holden Ute, Mercedes Vito or Volkswagen Transporter. Highway Patrol vehicles are higher performance sedans, often in colours other than white - often Holden Commodore SS, Ford Falcon XR6 or Toyota Aurion.\n\nA wide range of vehicles are used for unmarked purposes so as to not be easily identified as police. Many of these vehicles are also specifically chosen to fit in with civilian vehicles.\n\nEmergency lights on police vehicles are now generally blue and red; historically though, blue lights were used for police vehicles and red lights for fire engines and ambulances.\n\nPolice are now increasingly employing the use of a diverse range unmarked police cars. These vehicles include, besides the Commodore and the Falcon, the Chrysler 300C, Toyota Aurion, Toyota Corolla, Ford and Holden Ute, Ford Focus XR5, Subaru Impreza WRX, and the Volkswagen Golf. In rural areas, SUVs such as the Toyota Land Cruiser, Mitsubishi Pajero, Ford Territory and Nissan Patrol are used.\n\nMost Australian police services have mounted police units that are prominently used for ceremonial purposes, although in New South Wales, South Australia, Western Australia and Victoria the mounted police also undertake operational policing duties on a daily basis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47177297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47177297", "title": "List of boots", "text": "List of boots\n\nIn this list of boots, a boot type can fit into more than one of the categories, and may therefore be mentioned more than once.\n\n"}
{"id": "1649627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1649627", "title": "Lisu language", "text": "Lisu language\n\nLisu (Lisu: or ; ; , ) is a tonal Tibeto-Burman language spoken in Yunnan (southwestern China), northern Burma (Myanmar), and Thailand and a small part of India. Along with Lipo, it is one of two languages of the Lisu people. Lisu has many dialects that originate from the country in which they live. Hua Lisu, Pai Lisu, and Lu Shi Lisu dialects are spoken in China. Although they are mutually intelligible, some have many more loan words from other languages than others.\n\nThe Lisu language is closely related to the Lahu and Akha languages and is also related to Burmese, Jingphaw, and Yi languages.\n\nLisu can be split up into three dialects: northern, central, and southern, with northern being the standard.\n\nBradley (2003) lists the following three Lisu dialects.\n\n\nIn the introduction of \"A Study of Lisu dialects\" (傈僳语方言研究), Mu & Sun (2012) split Lisu into 3 dialects.\n\nMu & Sun (2012) compare a total of 5 datapoints in their comparative vocabulary table.\n\nSam Pollard's A-Hmao was adapted to write Lipo, another Lisoish language (sometimes called \"Eastern Lisu\") spoken by the Lisu people.\n\nThe Lisu alphabet currently in use throughout Lisu-speaking regions in China, Burma, and Thailand was primarily developed by two Protestant missionaries from different missionary organizations. The more famous of the two is James O. Fraser, a British evangelist from the China Inland Mission. His colleague, who developed the original version of the alphabet (later revised and improved with Fraser and various colleagues from the C.I.M.) was Sara Ba Thaw, a polyglot Karen preacher based in Myitkyina, Burma, who belonged to the American Baptist Mission.\n\nBa Thaw had prepared a simple Lisu catechism by 1915. The script now widely known as the \"Fraser alphabet\" was finished by 1939, when Fraser's mission houses in the Lisu ethnic areas of Yunnan Province (China) received their newly printed copies of the Lisu New Testament.\n\nFrom 1924 to 1930, a Lisu farmer called Ngua-ze-bo (pronounced ; Chinese: ) invented the Lisu syllabary from Chinese script, Dongba script and Geba script. However, it looks more different from the Chinese script than Chu Nom and Sawndip (Zhuang logograms). Since Ngua-ze-bo initially carved his characters on bamboos, the syllabary is known as the Lisu Bamboo script (傈僳竹书). \n\nIt has a total of 1250 glyphs and 880 characters.\n\nA new Lisu alphabet based on pinyin was created in 1957, but most Lisu continued to use the old alphabet. The Fraser alphabet was officially recognized by the Chinese government in 1992, since which time its use has been encouraged.\n\nIn a few places in Myanmar in which Lisu is spoken, an orthography based on the Burmese alphabet has been developed and is taught to speakers and used in several publications and school books.\n\nThe Lisu phonological inventory is as follows.\n\n and the fricative vowel are in complementary distribution: is only found after palato-alveolars, though an alternate analysis is possible, with the palato-alveolars viewed as allophones of the palatals before and . The distinction originates from proto-Lolo–Burmese consonant clusters of the type *kr or *kj, which elsewhere merge, but where Lisu normally develops , they remain distinct with the latter producing the type , the former the type . Inherited palatal affricates + also become .\n\nLisu has 6 tones: high , mid creaky , mid , low , rising , and low checked (that is, ). In some dialects the creaky tone is higher than mid tone, in others they are equal. The rising tone is infrequent, but common in baby talk (which has a stereotypical disyllabic low–rising pattern); both high and rising tone are uncommon after voiced consonants.\n\n and are in complementary distribution, with before front vowels. is marginal, occurring in a few words before or . The subdialect Fraser first encountered also distinguishes a retroflex series, , but only before .\n\nMedial glides appear before . These are with velars and with bilabials and . The latter consonant (see rhinoglottophilia) has a non-nasal allophone in the imperative particle . is only distinctive before , and in some dialects is merged with .\n\nIn Southern Lisu, the velar plosives become alveopalatal before front vowels. The vowels and trigger an offglide on preceding consonants, so are pronounced .\n\nThe vowels do not occur initially—or, at least, in initial position they are pronounced . It has been argued that the initial vowels are phonetically , so initial consonants do not need to be posited in such cases (and marginal can be removed from the inventory of native words), or that they are phonemically , with glottal stop (Bradley 2003).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29741733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29741733", "title": "Mal Muslim", "text": "Mal Muslim\n\nThe Mal Muslims are a Muslim community found in north east India and Bangladesh. They are a Muslim converts from the Hindu Mal caste. The community is also known as Besati Mal or Churiwala.\nMal Muslim are listed as Other Backward Classes by the Government of India and Government of West Bengal.\n\nThe community is traditionally associated with selling bangles and other traditionally jewellery. Little is known about the circumstances of their conversion to Islam, although according to traditions took place some nine centuries ago. There relation to the Bisati community of North India is also unclear, although both groups are traditionally involved in peddling and hawking. The community is found mainly in the districts of Malda, Murshidabad, 24 Parganas, Midnapore, Birbhum and Howrah. They speak Bengali and belong to the Sunni sect. The Mal are also found in western Bangladesh.\n\nThe Besati Mal are a landless community, involved mainly in hawking. Smaller groups have taken to agriculture. The community buys its wares from Kolkata, and then sells in the local markets. The Mal Besati live in multi-caste villages, although they occupy their own quarters known as paras. They are strictly endogamous, but have so system of clans. Each settlement includes a panchayat or caste council, that deals with community issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "17894051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17894051", "title": "Mangbetu language", "text": "Mangbetu language\n\nMangbetu, or \"Nemangbetu,\" is one of the most populous of the Central Sudanic languages. It is spoken by the Mangbetu people of northeastern Congo. It, or its speakers, are also known as \"Amangbetu, Kingbetu, Mambetto.\" The most populous dialect, and the one most widely understood, is called Medje. Others are Aberu (Nabulu), Makere, Malele, Popoi (Mapopoi). The most divergent is Lombi; \"Ethnologue\" treats it as a distinct language. About half of the population speaks Bangala, a trade language similar to Lingala, and in southern areas some speak Swahili.\n\nThe Mangbetu live in association with the Asua Pygmies, and their languages are closely related.\n\nOne unusual feature of Mangbetu is that it has both a voiced and a voiceless bilabial trill as well as a labial flap.\n\nThe labial trills are not particularly associated with back vowels or prenasalization, pace their development in some American languages.\n"}
{"id": "26570120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26570120", "title": "Momna", "text": "Momna\n\nThe Momin, sometimes referred to as Momna, Mumna or Momina, are a Muslim community found in the state of Gujarat in India.\n\nMomin (Momna) is a major caste of Gujarat Muslims. The term \"momin\" in Arabic means someone who is a true follower of Islam, and this term was given to Hindu converts from a number of castes who adopted the Shia faith. They were converted by Shia preachers.\n\nThe Momna are now divided into three endogamous groups, the Shia Momna found in Mehsana District, Ahmedabad city, and the talukas of Dholka and Dhandhuka of Ahmadabad District, the Sunni Momna who re-concentrated in fifty four villages of Wankaner and Morbi talukas of Rajkot District, also nine villages (Momin Navgam Sunni Jamat) of Sanand Taluka of Ahmedabad district and the Wahabi Momna of Mehsana and Banaskantha Districts. Their mother tongue is Gujarati. In addition to the three divisions, the Momna community are also divided into a number of clans, the main ones being the Kadivar, Bhoraniya, Aathiya, Shersia, Khorzia, Wankaneri, Paradha, Badi, Serasia, Vakalya, Dholkhawalia, Godhrawalia, Kapadia,Charoliya,Dekavadia, and Chaudhary, all of equal status. Their main occupation is farming, while many urban Momna are involved with weaving. Like other Gujarati Muslims, the Momna have a caste association, the Momin Jamat.\n"}
{"id": "52465022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52465022", "title": "Musicians Club of New York", "text": "Musicians Club of New York\n\nThe Musicians Club of New York is a musicians' club based in New York City. It was founded in 1911 with the intent of providing a social platform for musicians in and around New York, but its mission later expanded to support and promote young musicians through prizes and scholarships, as well as provide recognition for contemporary composers. From 1979 it administered the Koussevitzky International Recording Award (KIRA), and since 1956 has presented the Young Artist Awards, now known as the Serge and Olga Koussevitzky Young Artist Awards.\n\nThe Musicians Club of New York was founded in 1911 by a group of musicians, composers, and educators looking to create a social organization for the musical community in New York City. As written on their certificate of incorporation, their mission statement was to “promote social intercourse among its members,” and two, for “the mutual benefit and pleasure and the advancement in the various branches of musical art of its members.” The thirty founders listed on the document, forming the first board of directors, included cellist Hans Kronold, organist-composers Clarence Eddy, C. B. Hawley, and Frank Edwin Ward, and first presidents Tali Esen Morgan and David Bispham. The club's first headquarters were at 62 West 45th Street in Midtown Manhattan.\n\nEarly club operations included various dinners and performances, held at such venues as the New Amsterdam Theatre, Carnegie Hall, and Delmonico's, while performers included club members and musicians such as Ignacy Jan Paderewski, Frances Alda, Ernestine Schumann-Heink, and Rudolph Ganz. In addition to musical performances, events would also feature comedy performances, folk songs, and lectures, and were known for being attended by the musical elite; one 1916 dinner was attended by soprano Johanna Gadski, violinist Fritz Kreisler, and tenor Enrico Caruso. A goal for some of these events was to provide a platform for contemporary American composers, who were considered underrepresented in the musical world. During its first decade the club hosted individual events dedicated to the works of composers such as Charles Wakefield Cadman, Sidney Homer, Mary Turner Salter, and Amy Beach; other women composers featured by the club during this period included Harriet Ware and Gena Branscombe, who would also continue to perform for the club for several more decades as a composer, conductor, and instrumentalist. From 1913 the club president was New York Symphony Orchestra conductor Walter Damrosch, who helped attract interest in the club. During his presidency the club headquarters were moved to 14 West 12th Street, a building shared with the Civic Club that held a 250-seat auditorium and a roof garden. Damrosch was reported as president as late as 1920, and he retained the title of honorary president until his death in 1950.\n\nIn 1918 the club held a fundraiser to provide support to French musicians who were struggling during World War I, and the following year launched a campaign for a proposed “American Composers’ Fund”, through which American composers would be supported by government grants totaling from $200,000 to $1,000,000. While eventually unsuccessful, the initiative received support from figures such as composer Henry F. Gilbert, arts patron Otto Hermann Kahn, and Congressman John J. Eagan, who at one point planned to propose a bill to Congress establishing such a fund, along with a national conservatory.\n\nUnder the presidency of teacher and accompanist Frank La Forge, who began his tenure in 1935, the club endeavored to expand their mission to support young musicians and to foster general interest in classical music. The club fulfilled the first part of this mission by donating to music schools and sponsoring students at programs such as Tanglewood's Berkshire Music Center, and by 1953, the club estimated that it had contributed $1,500 to the cause of supporting young artists. That same year, La Forge suddenly died onstage at the age of 73 while performing piano at a club event in a Beekman Tower ballroom.\n\nIn 1956, under president Norman Dello Joio, the club first presented what came to be known as the Young Artist Awards, with the first winners being soprano Judith Raskin and baritone Carl White, who were awarded a total of $700. Later known as the Serge and Olga Koussevitzky Young Artist Awards, later recipients have included Jean Kraft (1959), Robert DeGaetano (1969), Paul Neubauer (1982) and François Salque (1994).\n\nIn 1962 the presidency was assumed by Olga Koussevitzky, widow of conductor and composer Serge Koussevitzky and friend to figures such as Aaron Copland and Leonard Bernstein. Having been involved with education programs at Tanglewood Music Center and a figure behind the creation of a composers' studio near the premises, Koussevitzky expanded the club's reach in providing support for young musicians and underrepresented composers. From 1968 she established a \"Young Artists in Performance\" series, as well as from 1973 a concert program at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts showcasing young artists, both of which were often broadcast on WNYC. Under Koussevitsky's leadership the club also put on multiple concerts showcasing works by women composers, often exclusively American. Koussevitzky resigned the presidency in 1975 for health reasons and was succeeded by Sylvia Rabinof.\n\nIn 1979, the Musicians Club reincorporated as a non-profit organization and received a grant from the Koussevitzky Foundation. Koussevitzky's involvement in the American International Music Fund (AIM), which administered the Koussevitzky International Recording Award (KIRA), also led to the organization being merged into the Musicians Club a year after her death in 1978. KIRA was established to award prizes for recorded works by contemporary composers, and since the acquisition has been awarded to composers such as Lucia Dlugoszewski (1980), Sofia Gubaidulina (1989 and 1993) and Stephen Jaffe (2004), as well as more well-known composers such as Pierre Boulez (1984) and Witold Lutosławski (1986).\n\nThe Musicians Club continues administering the Young Artist Awards, and in 2017 inaugurated the Dorothy Indenbaum Women Composers series. They also present an annual \"Member-Composers Concert\" that showcases works by current club members. Member-composers from recent years have included Leonard Lehrman, , and .\n\n\"* = Board of Directors member\"\n"}
{"id": "24116966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24116966", "title": "National Museum of Agriculture in Szreniawa", "text": "National Museum of Agriculture in Szreniawa\n\nThe National Museum of Agriculture in Szreniawa (, full name: \"National Museum of Agriculture and Agricultural-Food Industry in Szreniawa\") is a museum whose main site is in the village of Szreniawa, south of Poznań in western Poland. It was founded in 1964, and gained the status of National Museum in 1975. It has many open-air exhibits, including examples of agricultural tools and machinery, beehives, and other historical objects.\n\nApart from its central site at Szreniawa, the museum also incorporates five branches: the Museum of Milling and Water Equipment at Jaracz, the Museum of Natural Environment and Hunting at Uzarzewo, the Museum of Bee-keeping in Swarzędz, the Museum of Basketry and Hop Growing in Nowy Tomyśl, and the Museum of Meat Production in Sielinko.\n\n"}
{"id": "24958480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24958480", "title": "Olympic Broadcasting Services", "text": "Olympic Broadcasting Services\n\nOlympic Broadcasting Services (OBS) is a company which was established by the International Olympic Committee in 2001 in order to serve as the Host Broadcaster organisation for all Olympic Games, Olympic Winter Games and Youth Olympic Games, maintaining the standards of Olympic broadcasting between one edition and the next one.\n\nAs Host Broadcaster, OBS is responsible for delivering the pictures and sounds of the Olympic Games to billions of viewers around the world. It produces and transmits unbiased live radio and television coverage of every sport from every venue. This feed is called the International Signal or the World Feed and is distributed as a service to all broadcast organisations who have purchased the television and radio rights to the Games (known as Rights Holding Broadcasters or RHBs).\n\nIn collaboration with the Local Organising Committee, OBS supervises the development of the necessary infrastructures (including the International Broadcast Centre or IBC which serves as the primary base of the broadcast operation for OBS and the RHBs during the Games) and facilities at the different Olympic venues to ensure the successful broadcast production of the Games. OBS also offers additional services, equipment and supplies to the RHBs to help them produce their unilateral production.\n\nThe 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing marked the first time OBS was involved as Host Broadcaster. Previously the host broadcaster role was delegated to the local organising committees or to third-party broadcasters, having to rebuild the broadcast operation in each edition.\n\nIts headquarters are in Madrid, Spain.\n\nIts operations began with the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, where Beijing Olympic Broadcasting, a joint venture between OBS and the Beijing Organizing Committee, acted as the host broadcasting consortium and the state television network, China Central Television which is one of the host nation broadcasters of the games.\n\nFor the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, a wholly owned division, Olympic Broadcasting Services Vancouver was set up. The 2010 Olympics marked the first Games where the host broadcasting facilities were provided solely by OBS.\n\nThe 2012 Olympic Games were broadcast by OBS. More than 5,600+ hours of live sports, ceremonies and Olympic News Channel content were distributed to the Rights Holding Broadcasters. OBS employed 1,000+ HD cameras, including 40 High Super Slow Motion cameras and other innovative specialty equipment such as 3D cameras, Super High Vision cameras and the world’s longest cablecam which stretched 2,340m at the Rowing venue from start to finish.\n\nThe Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games represented the largest broadcast operation in history for a Winter Games. OBS deployed more than 450 cameras, including 12 cablecam systems, 31 High Speed Slow Motion (HSSM) cameras and a multicopter/drone used for the first time, to ultimately produce 1300+ hours of television.\n\nIn total, 464 television channels broadcast the Sochi Games, almost double the number from Vancouver, and more digital platforms offered coverage than at any previous Winter Games with 155 websites and 75 apps showing events live from Russia.\n\nThanks to the increased number of channels and digital platforms for Sochi 2014, there were more hours broadcast globally than any previous Winter Games with more than 100,000 hours broadcast around the world, compared with 57,000 for Vancouver 2010.\n\nFor the first time in Olympic history, the amount of digital coverage exceeded traditional television broadcasts with 60,000 hours available on digital platforms, compared with 42,000 hours on television. These were the first predominantly digital Olympic Games and OBS helped fuel the significant increase in digital coverage by launching, for the first time in Sochi, the Olympic Video Player (OVP). Available in 95 countries, the OVP provided a fully integrated data, a news channel, live streams and on-demand video.\n\nRio 2016 represented the most television coverage of any previous Olympic Games, with nearly 350,000 total hours broadcast globally, far exceeding the 200,000 hours that were broadcast for the London 2012 Games. Additionally, coverage was aired across more platforms than ever before, as more than 500 television channels and 250 digital outlets conveyed the Olympic Games around the world.\n\nThe number of hours of coverage available on digital platforms nearly doubled that of traditional television, representing more than two and a half times of what was achieved for London 2012 (218,000 hours versus 81,500 hours), marking a milestone in the history of Olympic broadcasting.\n\nRepresenting the largest host broadcast operation to date, Rio involved more than 7,200 OBS personnel. Further, having developed a production plan to cover all 28 Olympic sports, including new additions Golf and Rugby Sevens, OBS drew on more than 1,000 cameras for the coverage of the Rio Games.\n\nRio also marked the first time Olympic content was available in Virtual Reality (VR). Overall, OBS produced more than 85 hours of live VR coverage, captured by custom-developed 360-degree camera systems, to a total of 14 RHB organisations, representing 31 territories.\n\nOBS and Japanese Rights Holder NHK continued their collaboration on 4K/8K Super Hi-Vision (SHV) technology and produced approximately 100 hours of live coverage for Rio, featuring 22.2-channel surround sound.\n\nPyeongChang 2018 Winter Olympics and Paralympic\n"}
{"id": "57169337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57169337", "title": "Phandeeyar", "text": "Phandeeyar\n\nPhandeeyar (standing for \"creation place\") is a technology seed accelerator based in Yangon, Myanmar. Formally beginning in 2015, Phandeeyar provides funding and training for emerging startups. Phandeeyar also conducts trainings, hosts workshops, and holds competitions for startups within the digital sector.\n\nIn 2014, Phandeeyar emerged from a hackathon named \"Code for Change Myanmar\" where its founder and current CEO, David Madden, wanted to promote the growth of Myanmar's digital sector. Through this hackathon, politics and elections were addressed. \n\nMadden states the need for better financial support for emerging start-ups in Myanmar which also led to the creation of the accelerator.\n\nPhandeeyar's sponsors and investors include the Omidyar Network which has donated 2 million US dollars to the company, the United States Institute of Peace, the Open Society Foundation, and the Schmidt Family Foundation.\n\nDavid Madden states that Phandeeyar's objective is to connect those in the tech field with others actively working in the social sector through different events. \n\nIn 2015, Phandeeyar hosted a two week event event called \"MaePaySoe\" (translating to \"let's vote\") where more than one hundred web developers gathered to create technology which informs the general public about potential political candidates in Myanmar and the country's voting process.\nIn 2016, around fifteen to twenty startups were projected to be accepted into the accelerator in a three year span. Phandeeyar also plans to invest around $2 million into startups in the near future. From the startups accepted, Phandeeyar would claim a 12 percent ownership of the companies. \nThose selected for Phandeeyar's 6 month training program would receive a funding of $25,000 to launch their ventures in addition to business partnerships to help with the early stages of their startups. These partnerships include leaders from regional companies such as the Myanmar Information Technology, CarsDB, Muru-D. and Golden Gate Ventures. Towards the end of the program, companies have the opportunity to pitch their startup ideas to venture capitalists and angel investors. \n\nChate Sat is a digital platform to connect freelance workers with employers to find jobs. After its launch from Phandeeyar, Chate Sat recruited around 800 businesses looking to contract work and 5,000 freelancers. Chate Sat also received funding from some investors such as Vulpes Investment Management Ltd. \n\nGoP is an online, tourism-based website that compiles different traveling information into one platform. Nyunt Win Aung, one of the company's co-founders, states that its increased website traffic will increase their bookings, directly as a result of more funding. \n\nWhite Merak is a phone application used to read comics made by local artists and the company's team. Additionally, this platform shows animated comics, as well as a bilingual setting where users can switch comic text from Burmese to English and vice versa. \n\nEZ Stay is an online hotel booking platform co-founded by Aung Phyo Lwi focused on informing those traveling to Myanmar about different hotel and motel availabilities. According to Aung Phyo Lwi, this website can better market local Myanmar businesses.\n\nIn April 2018, Myanmar civil rights groups and Myanmar-based technology companies accused Facebook of failing to effectively detect hate speech online in Myanmar, which many have claimed to have contributed to an anti-Rohingya sentiment in the country. Phandeeyar, along with other companies, released an open letter to the social media platform, posing questions about Facebook's transparency in accordance with these issues and the possible implications of social media with current events in Myanmar.\n"}
{"id": "39709721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39709721", "title": "Pharmacy Act 1868", "text": "Pharmacy Act 1868\n\nThe Pharmacy Act 1868 was the major 19th-century legislation in the United Kingdom limiting the sale of poisons and dangerous drugs to qualified pharmacists and druggists.\n\nDuring the 1850s and 1860s there were moves to establish the medical and pharmaceutical professions as separate, self-regulating bodies. The Pharmaceutical Society had been established in 1841 and by the 1850s had 2,500 members out of a total of 25,000 drug sellers. The Pharmacy Act 1852 set up a register of pharmacists and limited the use of the title to people registered with the society, but proposals to give it exclusive rights were rejected. After the society opposed two Poison Bills in 1857 and 1859 that did not meet its criteria, a rival United Society of Chemists and Druggists was established in 1860 by pharmacists disgruntled with the lack of progress, and in 1863 the newly established General Medical Council unsuccessfully attempted to assert control over drug distribution.\n\nEventually a compromise was reached between the two competing pharmaceutical societies, from which emerged the 1868 Act.\n\nThe Pharmacy Act 1868 established a system of registration involving major and minor examinations controlled by the Pharmaceutical Society. It also controlled the distribution of fifteen named poisons in a two-part schedule. All poisons had to be entered in a Poison Register. Those in the first part, which included strychnine, potassium cyanide and ergot, could only be sold if the purchaser was known to the seller or to an intermediary known to both. All drugs had to be sold in containers with the seller's name and address. Arsenic had already been controlled by an 1851 Act.\n\nDrugs in the second schedule included opium and all preparations of opium or of poppies. There was opposition from many chemists, who claimed the various forms of opium such as laudanum constituted a major part of their trade, so that early drafts omitted it entirely; it was only reintroduced later in the parliamentary process.\n\nThere was an immediate fall in the death rate caused by opium from 6.4 per million population in 1868 to 4.5 in 1869. After a decade it had risen to over 5 and by the end of the century it was back at the 1868 level. Deaths among children under five dropped from 20.5 per million population between 1863 and 1867, to 12.7 per million in 1871, and further declined to between 6 and 7 per million in the 1880s.\n\nDespite the reservation of opium to professional control, general sales did continue to a limited extent and sales of preparations containing less than 1 per cent of opium were generally permitted. Customers who could afford medical attention and obtained their opium on prescription suffered little hindrance.\n\nIn contrast with legislation regulating other industries at the time, the \"Pharmacy Act\" neglected to restrict the profession to men only. As a result, 223 women were listed on the first compulsory register of pharmacists in 1869. Most were the wives, widows or daughters of male pharmacists and were already practicing in 1868. Alice Vickery became the first woman to qualify as a pharmacist under the new Act in 1873.\n"}
{"id": "46044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46044", "title": "Political economy", "text": "Political economy\n\nPolitical economy is the study of production and trade and their relations with law, custom and government; and with the distribution of national income and wealth. As a discipline, political economy originated in moral philosophy, in the 18th century, to explore the administration of states' wealth, with \"political\" signifying the Greek word \"polity\" and \"economy\" signifying the Greek word \"okonomie\" (household management). The earliest works of political economy are usually attributed to the British scholars Adam Smith, Thomas Malthus, and David Ricardo, although they were preceded by the work of the French physiocrats, such as François Quesnay (1694–1774) and Anne-Robert-Jacques Turgot (1727–1781).\n\nIn the late 19th century, the term \"economics\" gradually began to replace the term \"political economy\" with the rise of mathematical modelling coinciding with the publication of an influential textbook by Alfred Marshall in 1890. Earlier, William Stanley Jevons, a proponent of mathematical methods applied to the subject, advocated economics for brevity and with the hope of the term becoming \"the recognised name of a science\". Citation measurement metrics from Google Ngram Viewer indicate that use of the term \"economics\" began to overshadow \"political economy\" around roughly 1910, becoming the preferred term for the discipline by 1920. Today, the term \"economics\" usually refers to the narrow study of the economy absent other political and social considerations while the term \"political economy\" represents a distinct and competing approach.\n\nPolitical economy, where it is not used as a synonym for economics, may refer to very different things. From an academic standpoint, the term may reference Marxian economics, applied public choice approaches emanating from the Chicago school and the Virginia school. In common parlance, \"political economy\" may simply refer to the advice given by economists to the government or public on general economic policy or on specific economic proposals developed by political scientists. A rapidly growing mainstream literature from the 1970s has expanded beyond the model of economic policy in which planners maximize utility of a representative individual toward examining how political forces affect the choice of economic policies, especially as to distributional conflicts and political institutions. It is available as a stand-alone area of study in certain colleges and universities.\n\nOriginally, political economy meant the study of the conditions under which production or consumption within limited parameters was organized in nation-states. In that way, political economy expanded the emphasis of economics, which comes from the Greek \"oikos\" (meaning \"home\") and \"nomos\" (meaning \"law\" or \"order\"). Political economy was thus meant to express the laws of production of wealth at the state level, just as economics was the ordering of the home. The phrase \"économie politique\" (translated in English as \"political economy\") first appeared in France in 1615 with the well-known book by Antoine de Montchrétien, \"Traité de l’economie politique\". The French physiocrats were the first exponents of political economy, although the intellectual responses of Adam Smith, John Stuart Mill, David Ricardo, Henry George and Karl Marx to the physiocrats generally receives much greater attention. The world's first professorship in political economy was established in 1754 at the University of Naples Federico II in southern Italy. The Neapolitan philosopher Antonio Genovesi was the first tenured professor. In 1763, Joseph von Sonnenfels was appointed a Political Economy chair at the University of Vienna, Austria. Thomas Malthus, in 1805, became England's first professor of political economy, at the East India Company College, Haileybury, Hertfordshire. In its contemporary meaning, political economy refers to different yet related approaches to studying economic and related behaviours, ranging from the combination of economics with other fields to the use of different, fundamental assumptions that challenge earlier economic assumptions:\n\nPolitical economy most commonly refers to interdisciplinary studies drawing upon economics, sociology and political science in explaining how political institutions, the political environment, and the economic system—capitalist, socialist, communist, or mixed—influence each other. The \"Journal of Economic Literature\" classification codes associate political economy with three sub-areas: (1) the role of government and/or class and power relationships in resource allocation for each type of economic system; (2) international political economy, which studies the economic impacts of international relations; and (3) economic models of political or exploitative class processes. Much of the political economy approach is derived from public choice theory on the one hand and radical political economics on the other hand, both dating from the 1960s.\n\nPublic choice theory is a microfoundations theory that is closely intertwined with political economy. Both approaches model voters, politicians and bureaucrats as behaving in mainly self-interested ways, in contrast to a view, ascribed to earlier mainstream economists, of government officials trying to maximize individual utilities from some kind of social welfare function. As such, economists and political scientists often associate political economy with approaches using rational-choice assumptions, especially in game theory and in examining phenomena beyond economics' standard remit, such as government failure and complex decision making in which context the term \"positive political economy\" is common. Other \"traditional\" topics include analysis of such public policy issues as economic regulation, monopoly, rent-seeking, market protection, institutional corruption and distributional politics. Empirical analysis includes the influence of elections on the choice of economic policy, determinants and forecasting models of electoral outcomes, the political business cycles, central-bank independence and the politics of excessive deficits.\n\nA more recent focus has been on modeling economic policy and political institutions as to interactions between agents and economic and political institutions, including the seeming discrepancy of economic policy and economist's recommendations through the lens of transaction costs. From the mid-1990s, the field has expanded, in part aided by new cross-national data sets that allow tests of hypotheses on comparative economic systems and institutions. Topics have included the breakup of nations, the origins and rate of change of political institutions in relation to economic growth, development, financial markets and regulation, backwardness, reform and transition economies, the role of culture, ethnicity and gender in explaining economic outcomes, macroeconomic policy, the environment, fairness and the relation of constitutions to economic policy, theoretical and empirical.\n\nOther important landmarks in the development of political economy include:\n\n\nBecause political economy is not a unified discipline, there are studies using the term that overlap in subject matter, but have radically different perspectives:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25671211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25671211", "title": "Seishitsu", "text": "Seishitsu\n\nSeishitsu (正室) is the Japanese term of the Edo period for the official wife of high-ranking persons. The tennō, kugyō (court officials), \"shōgun\" and \"daimyōs\" often had several wives to ensure the birth of an heir. The \"seishitsu\" had a status above other wives, called \"sokushitsu\" (側室, concubine).\n\nThe system dates back to the ritsuryō system in the Nara and Heian periods. At the time, the main wife was called \"chakusai\" (嫡妻). The last Japanese emperor to have official concubines was Emperor Meiji.\n\nSuccession disputes between sons of the official wife and concubines were a constant source of internal, often armed conflict within houses (O-Ie Sōdō).\n\n"}
{"id": "417744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=417744", "title": "Sexmission", "text": "Sexmission\n\nSexmission () is a 1984 Polish cult comedy science fiction action film. It also contains a hidden political satire layer specific to the time and place of its production.\n\nIn August 9, 1991, Maksymilian \"Max\" Paradys (Jerzy Stuhr), trying to find an adventure, and Albert Starski (Olgierd Łukaszewicz), biologist, volunteer themselves for the first human hibernation experiment, created by professor Wiktor Kuppelweiser, a Nobel Prize laureate, who previously successfully hibernated a chimpanzee for half a year. Experiment is considered as an epochal event and is broadcast by television. Process of the hibernation is scheduled for 3 years.\n\nInstead of being awakened 3 years later as planned, they wake up in the year 2044, in a post-nuclear world, both are 86 years old. When they wake up, they believe at first that they are in a clinic following their hibernation. They are being taken care of by women, which they enjoy at the beginning, especially Max, who becomes attracted to Lamia Reno. However they gradually realize that everything going on around them is odd. After explicitly asking to meet professor Kuppelweiser, they are informed by Lamia and Dr. Berna that he's dead as there was a war long ago, that all males have long been extinct, and that it is actually March 8th, 2044 (Women's Day). Max and Albert think that these must be hallucinations as a side-effect of hibernation and try to leave the room, but receive an electric shock from the closed door. The men are under constant surveillance after this. Lamia informs them their society reproduces without males through parthenogenesis. During a briefing, Max kisses Lamia, for which she knocks him down and threatens both men with euthanasia if there is another attempt at sexual assault. However, the kiss causes Lamia's drug-inhibited passions to resurface, making her both confused and fascinated. Due to her internal feelings she goes on a search for the oldest living woman to find out anything about the men before the war. She finds 74-year old Julia Novack, who fondly remembers her fiancé and tells Lamia that the old world with two sexes should be restored. She also guesses that Lamia fell in love with one of man.\n\nAfter several days, Max and Albert are permitted to go out to meet with Her Excellency, the supreme ruler of women. Waiting for her in the bio-sanctuary, they spot a tree with two tiny apples and eat them, being disgusted by synthetic food. At the meeting they ask what womankind did to mankind. The women reply it is not their fault, but Kuppelweiser's, who during the war invented an agent - the so-called M bomb - which was supposed to temporarily paralyze male genes, but due to an oversight wiped out male genes permanently. Max offers a proposal: he and Albert will serve as reproducers to restore the male population. But the women do not wish the old order to come back; Her Excellency points at the \"sacred apple tree\" and says it was planted by Arch Mother, and from which, when once in paradise, a male took an apple and seduced a woman by it, for which act all lost paradise forever. After noticing the missing sacred apples, Her Excellency becomes desperate and enraged and demands the men be taken back to their previous confinement and not be released anywhere. \n\nOnce again confined, the men grow distressed and plan to escape by damaging the electric power grid. They succeed but are caught during a course organized by the special section how to act with men if they would ever return to the world, and locked up again. The women provide them with their last chance: to submit themselves for \"naturalization\" - undergoing a sex reassignment surgery. When they refuse, a ceiling above the room opens, showing a huge assembly of women, which has to determine their fate. Albert and Max now face a humiliating trial while the women blame males for oppression, virtually all evil and vices, and praise their new society. They engage in historical revisionism in claiming that the greatest scientists - such as Copernicus, Einstein or Pincus (one of the pioneers of parthenogenesis) - were, in fact, women. When Max and Albert are taken away, the assembly is to choose between forced 'naturalization' (proposed by group \"Archeo\") and 'liquidation' (proposed by group \"Genetix\") of men. The first option is passed by a margin of only one vote. In the meantime, the men escape again. Wandering through what Albert calls \"a nightmarish skyscraper\", they encounter other women, who have known no man, and therefore see Max and Albert as their \"sisters\", provoking humorous encounters. After that the men discover a boot lying on the floor, with a bottle of cheap wine (in real popular in Poland in late 20th century) and newspaper from 1993 with real history of the world from begin of the world war inside. Next they have to run away and discover the nest of \"decadency\" - one of the anarchist, \"hippie\" women's groups, who do not wish to be part of the oppressive regime, play loud music, and some engage in lesbian relations. Max and Albert are caught as supposed government spies by them. In the meantime, the pursuing regime forces attack, and subsequent chaos provides the men with an opportunity to escape. During escape, they found After escaping, the men stumble upon Lamia, who provides them with a way to see the outside - a periscope - and reveals that they live deep underground in expanded old mines. The periscope shows a dark, rocky landscape above ground, and sensors indicate high levels of \"Kuppelweiser radiation\", a side effect of M bomb. However it turns out that Lamia's plan was a plot to catch the men and force them into surgery as Lamia was loyal for her group \"Archeo\". Lamia is congratulated by Tekla and Emma Dax (members of \"Genetix\") for her ingenious plan, but they also inform her that their section will now be in charge of the males, which devastates Lamia.\n\nIn the hands of Tekla, the fate of the males is to be different. Their organs will be extracted for transplantation, and the remains will be tested for possible use of dead bodies for consumption due to a growing protein shortage. The chief surgeon, Dr Yanda, an old lady, is revealed to be Max's daughter, who now delights in taking revenge for his abandonment of his wife and child in favor of hibernation for his own profit. Lamia sabotages the surgery and helps the men escape as revenge for Tekla and Dax taking the men and her research. Shortly after escape Albert falls asleep in the lift and is dreaming that he's in 1994, when process of hibernation has successfully finished. In the periscope room Lamia threatens the guards by telling them that she will blast the whole block if they do not give her the code activating a capsule reaching the surface, while Max and Albert find and change into protective suits. The guards claim that only Her Excellency knows the password required; enraged, Max shouts \"kurwa mać!\" (a common strong Polish swear), and to the surprise of all present, the capsule is activated. Lamia changes into another protective suit and joins the men. While they explore the surface, Max suddenly bumps against an invisible barrier and is unable to go further. He takes a knife and cuts the fabric of the barrier, and a dazzling light appears. They all go through the hole and see a beach, with the periscope area being surrounded by a small circular structure. They then travel to a forest, but the suits are running out of oxygen. Suddenly Max shouts with joy and throws away his suit, seeing a flying stork and declares \"if it can live, it means we can live too\". After removing the suits, they find a cosy villa full of fresh food. While eating in the garden, they are found by Emma, who has been following them and, armed with a harpoon, demands their surrender, but she faints due to lack of oxygen. When she regains consciousness, Emma begins to fight with Albert; during their tussle, they accidentally turn on a TV and see an official government version of the events, including Lamia and Emma considered to death and an interview with \"naturalised\" Max and Albert, who claim to be feeling very well and thankful. Emma is shocked, unable to understand such lies and all the strange environment \"with too much air\". Max goes with Lamia to a bedroom and tries to explain her what mating is, while Albert tries his luck with Emma.\n\nLater, while resting in the living room, Max and Albert suddenly hear the familiar, distressing sound of an arriving underground lift and hide. It is 'Her Excellency' who leaves the lift (covered in a locker) to feed 'her' caged birds. When 'she' opens a wardrobe, 'she' is attacked by Max, who has hidden in it. During the ensuing fight, 'her' breasts and hair are stripped, revealing that 'she' is a male in disguise, to 'her' panic and Max's disgust and rage. Max also removes an electronic necklace, which was converting 'Her Excellency's voice into one that sounds like a woman's. 'Her Excellency' tells the men his life story - just after the war, when the League of Women took power, he was 4 years old; the few boys remaining were naturalised into 'girls', but he was hidden by his mother. Growing up in a female disguise, he joined the League and finally was appointed as 'Her Excellency'. He was too afraid of the women to form a relationship with any and, revealing himself, to try to return to the old order. The government has been exaggerating the radiation level in order to keep the inhabitants underground, making them easier to control; likewise, the inhabitants are medicated to remove sexual desire. The three make a deal: Max and Albert will not compromise 'Her' Excellency's true identity, but they can stay in his home with Lamia and Emma. Later, Max and Albert, disguised as laboratory workers, put male gametes into the incubation center. Flashing forward to several months later, a nurse, routinely wrapping newborns in blankets, is horrified to see a penis.\n\nThe film contains numerous subtle allusions to the realities of the communist-bloc society, particularly to that of the People's Republic of Poland just before the fall of communism, perhaps in the anticipation of the major events to come; the fall of communism and the rise of political liberty. When Max and Albert escape, they jump through the wall, which then starts to shake (often associated with later Lech Wałęsa's jumping over the wall of the Gdańsk shipyard, and also with the subsequent fall of the Berlin wall). The secret meeting of the Women League apparatchiks and their lies to the women parallels the communist government of Poland. This dimension of the movie appears to typically escape the viewer more removed from the context. Some sections of this kind were left out from the version shown in Polish theaters by the government censors, but many passed through.\n\nThe movie can also be viewed as a satire directed at intergender conflict (wrong-headed feminism or wrong-headed masculism), prudery, or totalitarianism.\n\nIn a contemporary review, \"Variety\" stated that the film was \"not up to the standards of those quality Polish pics of the late 1970s [...] nonetheless the best pic to emerge form the Warsaw studios over the past season.\"\n\nThe film has been very popular in Poland. It was proclaimed to be the best Polish film of the last 30 years in a 2005 joint poll by readers of three popular film magazines. However, this assessment by the audience was considered to be a surprise as it disagreed with the historical rankings of Polish movies by the professional film critics. It received the \"Złota Kaczka\" award for the best Polish movie of 1984. The movie was also fairly popular in Hungary when shown a couple of years later.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2024408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2024408", "title": "Sexual partner", "text": "Sexual partner\n\nSexual partners are people who engage in sexual activity together. The sexual partners can be of any number, sex, gender, or sexual orientation. The sexual partners may be in a committed relationship, either on an exclusive basis or not, or engage in the sexual activity on a casual basis. They may be on intimate terms (in which case they are often referred to as \"lovers\") or anonymous, as in the case of sex with a stranger, a one-night stand, or a prostitute. A person can be another person's sexual partner even if the sexual activity is illegal, socially taboo, or otherwise in breach of a trust or commitment. A person may have more than one sexual partner at any one time, either as polyamory, polygamy or in contravention of convention.\n\nThe term \"sexual partner\" is usually applied to consensual sexual relations, not to those that are forced or result from duress, as in the case of rape. In those cases, one party is typically called the perpetrator, and the person against whom the sex act is imposed is called a victim, or by similar terminology.\n\nA sexual partner may or may not have equal power during a sexual activity; such sexual \"roles\" (which can sometimes be determined by personality type but can also be determined by a conscious choice by the individual to \"assume\" a particular \"role\") typically fall under various dominance/submission (D/s) categories.\n\nGenerally, a sexual partner is one with whom one is engaging in a sexual activity.\n\nAn ex-sexual partner is a person with whom the other partner does not intend to engage in any further sexual activity; while a prospective sexual partner is one with whom the person has not previously engaged in any sexual activity, but desires.\n"}
{"id": "373150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373150", "title": "Sugriva", "text": "Sugriva\n\nIn the Hindu epic Ramayana, Sugriva (Sanskrit: सुग्रीव, IAST: sugrīva สุคฺรีว, lit. \"beautiful necked\") was younger brother of Vali, whom he succeeded as ruler of the vanara kingdom of Kishkindha. Rumā was his wife. He was son of Surya, the Hindu deity of sun. As the king of vanara, Sugriva aided Rama in his quest to liberate his wife Sita from captivity at the hands of the Rakshasa king Ravana. This aid is referred to as Sugrivajne.\n\nHe is also known as , , , , Creole: \"Soogrim\", , , , Sugreeva or Sugreev.\n\nThe story of Sugriva is part of Ramayana and in an abbreviated version, is also present in the Mahabharata.\n\nVali ruled the kingdom of Kishkindha; his subjects were the vanaras. Tara was his wife. One day, a raging demon by the name of Maayaavi came to the gates of the capital and challenged Vali to a fight. Vali accepted the challenge, but when he sallied forth, the demon fled in terror into a deep cave. Vali entered the cave in pursuit of the demon, telling Sugriva to wait outside. When Vali did not return and upon hearing demonic shouts in the cave and seeing blood oozing from its mouth, Sugriva concluded that his brother had been killed. With a heavy heart, Sugriva rolled a boulder to seal the cave's opening, returned to Kishkindha and assumed kingship over the vanaras. Vali, however, ultimately prevailed in his combat with the demon and returned home. Seeing Sugriva acting as king, he concluded that his brother had betrayed him. Though Sugriva humbly attempted to explain himself, Vali would not listen. As a result, Sugriva was ostracized from the kingdom, Vali forcibly took Sugriva's wife Rumā and the brothers became bitter enemies. Sugriva then goes on to live on Rishyamukh as it is the only place on earth that Vali cannot tread on. Vali was previously cursed by Sage Matang and hence cannot lay a foot on this piece of land. Doing so would cause his death.\n\nIn exile, Sugriva made the acquaintance of Rama, the Avatar of Vishnu, who was on a quest to rescue his wife Sita from the demon Ravana, king of the Rakshasas. Rama promised Sugriva that he would kill Vali and would reinstate Sugriva as the king of the vanaras. Sugriva, in turn, promised to help Rama with his quest.\n\n===Rama Kills Valli and hands over the kingdom to sugriva\n\nTogether, Sugriva and Rama went to seek out Vali. While Rama stood back, Sugriva shouted a challenge and dared him to battle. The brothers rushed at each other, fighting with trees and stones, with fists, nails and teeth. They were evenly matched and indistinguishable to the observer, until Sugriva's counsellor Hanuman stepped forward and placed a garland of flowers around Sugriva's neck. It was then that Rama emerged with his bow and drove an arrow through Vali's heart. When Vali had expired, Sugriva reclaimed the vanara kingdom, took back his wife, Rumā and took over Vali's main wife, Tara, who became empress and her son by Vali, Angada, who became crown prince.\n\nOn Lakshmana's request and after Guru Vasistha's approval, Rama plans to do Ashvamedha Yagya. At this auspicious occasion he calls Sugriva along with Angada, Nala, Neela, Jambavantha and Hanuman to come to Ayodhya. Rama greets and hugs Sugriva, Jambavantha and others on their arrival to Ayodhya.\n\nThe Yagya horse was captured by Lava and Kusha brothers. In the Rama's army the news spreads that two muni kumara's has captured the Yagya's horse. Shatrughana walks and fights with Lava and he was defeated by Lava. Then Lakshamana comes and he was also defeated by Lava. Then Bharata asks Rama to give him the permission to go to set horse free from both muni Kumara. Sugriva and Hanuman also request Rama to permit them to go along with Bharata in the battle. Lava and Kusha defeat Bharata and Sugriva and take Hanuman as a prisoner. Hanuman was the only one who knew that Lava and Kush were sons of his master & Sita and thus allowed himself to be imprisoned by his master's sons.\n\nWhen Rama decided to depart from the world and took \"samadhi\" in the Saryu River, Sugriva also retired from earth and went with his father Surya.\n\nAccording to Jain texts, Sugriva was a human being and he took Jain Diksha and attained Moksha from Mangi-Tungi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5964167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5964167", "title": "Suzanne Lacy", "text": "Suzanne Lacy\n\nSuzanne Lacy (born 1945) is an American artist, educator, and writer, professor at the USC Roski School of Art and Design. She has worked in a variety of media, including installation, video, performance, public art, photography, and art books, in which she focuses on \"social themes and urban issues.\" She served in the education cabinet of Jerry Brown, then mayor of Oakland, California, and as arts commissioner for the city. She designed multiple educational programs beginning with her role as performance faculty at The Feminist Studio Workshop at The Woman's Building in Los Angeles. \n\nLacy has been involved with feminism since the late 1960s. She attended California State University located in Fresno in 1969, taking up graduate studies in psychology. At this university, Lacy and fellow graduate student Faith Wilding established the first feminist consciousness-raising group on campus. This lead up to her attendance in Judy Chicago's Feminist Art Program during the Fall of 1970. The 1970s became a period where Suzanne Lacy continued to explore identities, women's bodies, and social conditions. \n\nThe 1976 renovation of the Biltmore Hotel in Los Angeles, California sparked Lacy's performance art piece, \"Inevitable Associations\". The marketing surrounding the old hotel's renovations paralleled the hotel to an old woman. Photographs showing the hotels' original structure stating \"There May Be Life in the Old Girl Yet\" forced Lacy to question the ways in which our society views older women. Throughout her career one can See Lacy's awareness and desire to rebuttal the invisibility of aging women (see performances \"Whisper, the Waves, the Wind\" (1984) and \"Crystal Quilt\" (1987).\n\nThe performance of \"Inevitable Associations\" took place over a span of two days in the lobby of the Biltmore Hotel. The first day of the performance featured a public makeover of Lacy. It took nearly three hours for a makeup artist to publicly turn Lacy into an old woman. As the makeover was occurring, collaborators passed out flyers and literature on the hotel renovation as well as information about cosmetic surgery. Throughout the performance old women dressed in all black began to slowly enter the lobby and take seats on the opposite side of Lacy. This went nearly unnoticed until the number of elderly women had grown so large that their presence became undeniable to all of those in the lobby. Once Lacy's makeover was complete the mass of older women silently dressed Lacy in black clothes. The second day of the performance featured three elderly women participants who sat in red chairs in the lobby and told stories about their lives after the age of 60 and the effects of aging to passerby's and any audience that formed. Lacy's goal throughout the performance was to bring awareness to the invisibility women must struggle with as they age and no longer fit into society's standards of beauty. \"Inevitable Associations\" was a crucial point in Lacy's career as it was the first time in which Lacy took her performance to the public streets.\n\nIn 1977, Lacy and collaborator Leslie Labowitz combined performance art with activism in \"Three Weeks in May\". The event included a performance piece on the steps of Los Angeles City Hall and self-defense classes for women in an attempt to highlight and curb sexual violence against women. The artists updated a map with reports from the Los Angeles Police Department, printing the word \"rape\" on spots on a map of the greater Los Angeles Area.\n\nLacy and Labowitz teamed up with Bia Lowe, and other artists, in 1977 to create, \"In Mourning and In Rage,\" a large-scale public protest performance. It had been designed to challenge media coverage that sensationalized a rash of murders of women by the so-called Hillside Strangler; the tone of the press coverage seemed geared to heighten the climate of fear which reinforced the image of women as victims. The performance began when a group of exceptionally tall women, made taller by towering black headpieces, arrived at City Hall in a hearse, followed by a caravan of cars filled with women in black. The Performers debarked and formed a circle in front of the steps of City Hall, beneath a banner that read, ”\"In memory of our sisters, women fight back\".” The artist's designed the performance, action and imagery, specifically to captivate the interest of television news; and, in successfully achieving this network coverage, used the media to critique itself—which extended the impact of the art performance far beyond the usual feminist and/or art audience.\n\nParticipants from the Woman’s Building, the Rape Hotline Alliance, and City Council joined with the feminist community and families of the victims in creating a public ritual of rage as well as grief.\n\nLacy and Labowitz founded ARIADNE: A Social Art Network, a collaborative group to create community-based artwork and educational opportunities. In the mid-seventies, Lacy curated the first exhibition of women's performance art at Womanspace Gallery at The Woman's Building. In 1981, she collaborated with Susan Hiller to curate the exhibition \"We'll Think of a Title When We Meet: Women Performance Artists from London and Los Angeles\" at Franklin Furnace, a well-known alternative arts venue founded in 1976 by Martha Wilson.\n\nLacy produced many performances in various sites around the world, mostly focusing on race, class and gender equity. During the first two decades of the 2000s, she reworked earlier performances, including \"WACK! Art and the Feminist Revolution\", based upon the venues and objectives. In 2012, she re-created the 1977 performance for the Getty Pacific Standard Time Performance Festival. \"Three Weeks in January\", was an anti-rape performance based on her landmark 1977 project; this time the map was installed prominently on the Los Angeles Police Department's main campus.\n\n\"Whisper, the Waves, the Wind\", created with Sharon Allen in 1984, was the culmination of the \"Whisper Project\", a yearlong series of events that highlighted the special needs of older women. \"I'm interested in the mythology surrounding older women,\" Lacy responded when being interviewed about her work,\"in how they are denuded of their power in our culture. I want to help them overcome the barriers set up by prejudice, by the accumulation of wealth and power. I want to reinfuse them with their power and realized how right and evocative the sea was as a setting. With all its cycles, I think people will get the feeling whether they understand it or not, that sense of continuity in matriarchal consciousness.\" On the morning of the performance a procession of 154 ethnically-diverse older women (between the ages of 65 to 99) all dressed in white, moving slowly down a staircase to the vast beach below. They sat in groups of four, at white cloth-covered tables on two adjacent beaches at Children's Pool in La Jolla. Their animated conversations focused on pre-selected topics—their thoughts about the physical process of aging; preparing for death; loss; the women's movement; what advice they would give to younger women.\" The audience watched and listened from the cliffs high above the beach where they could hear a collage of the women’s voices piped through speakers, managed by sound composer Susan Stone. \"From the whisper of women's voices on a beach to a shout of rage on the steps of City Hall, Suzanne Lacy's art is one of alchemy and exorcism, celebration and condemnation\" wrote Margot Mifflin in her interview with Lacy about the performance.\n\nOn Mother's Day, May 10, 1987, Lacy directed the hour-long \"Crystal Quilt\", a sequel to \"Whisper, the Waves, the Wind\". This time, however, the performance was staged indoors, in what is known as the \"Crystal Court\" (a space normally occupied by kiosks and a café) in the IDS Center, a downtown Minneapolis skyscraper designed by Philip Johnson and John Burgee. \"The Crystal Quilt\" was the most ambitions and most complex of all of Lacy's 1980's vivant, as she often describes these grand, large-scale productions. The \"Crystal Quilt\", which featured 430 older women. Filmed and broadcast live on PBS, the performance involved \"women talking about their lives as their gathering created an eighty-two foot square tableau in the shape of a quilt.\" The performance was attended by over 3,000 people.\n\nLacy believes that her work cannot be re-enacted literally based on its immediate response to specific times and places. However, as many issues remain current it is possible to \"re-think\" works in new contexts. Like \"Crystal Quilt,\" \"Silver Action\" concerns older women, a re-creation produced for the opening of The Tanks performance space at Tate Modern. \"Silver Action\" took place in February 2013 at the Tate Modern Gallery in London and featured 400 women over the age of 60 discussing activism regarding women's rights: their past participation, the future, and how their views have changed as they matured.\n\nBetween 1991 and 2001, Lacy staged \"The Oakland Projects\", a community performance art project, with TEAM (Teens, Educators, Artists, Media Makers) members. \"The Oakland Projects\" aimed to engage local California youth in consciousness-raising discussions about police brutality, social injustice, education, and other social issues. Participants did not ‘perform’ in the traditional sense, but instead mirrored the social stereotypes that they see within in their community. \"The Roof is On Fire\" (1993–1994) was a two-year project in which Lacy and collaborators developed media literacy classes for Oakland youth, and conducted a one-night performance piece. More than 200 young people had conversations in cars about race, class, gender, inequality, and other issues. Observers were asked to listen in on the conversations. The students trained in independent media created a documentary of the performance, which was covered on mainstream news stations.\nIn 2012, Lacy modified her earlier work \"Three Weeks in May\" (1977) for a new project called \"Three Weeks in January\", which continued the dialogue about rape in Los Angeles. It included presentations, conversations, and a performance called \"Storying Rape\". \"Storying Rape: Shame Ends Here\" grew into another art project produced for the Liverpool Biennial in 2012, which promoted a public conversation in the English city about rape violence, education, and prevention.\n\nIn October 2013, Lacy organised conversations among women on the stoops of Park Place houses in Brooklyn, New York, for her \"Between the Door and the Street\" Project. Sponsored by the Brooklyn Museum’s Elizabeth A. Sackler Center for Feminist Art, 360 participants discussed gender issues while passersbys listened in.\n\nIn 1977, Lacy became an associate of the Women's Institute for Freedom of the Press (WIFP). WIFP is an American nonprofit publishing organization. The organization works to increase communication between women and connect the public with forms of women-based media.\n\nLacy is the editor of \"Mapping the Terrain: New Genre Public Art\", an anthology of essays about the impact of performance art in public spaces. She has also written articles on performance art.\n\nLacy has consistently written about her work: planning, describing, and analyzing it; advocating socially engaged art practices; theorizing the relationship between art and social intervention; and questioning the boundaries separating high art from popular participation. By bringing together thirty texts that Lacy has written since 1974, Lacy's Book, offers an intimate look at the development of feminist, conceptual, and performance art since those movements’ formative years. In the introduction, the art historian Moira Roth provides a helpful overview of Lacy’s art and writing, which in the afterword the cultural theorist Kerstin Mey situates in relation to contemporary public art practices.\n\nLacy has held several positions at academic institutions focusing on the arts. She was the Dean of Fine Arts at California College of the Arts (CCA) from 1987-1997. Lacy was a founding faculty member at California State University, Monterey Bay and founding director of the Center for Fine Art and Public Life. She served as the Chair of Fine Arts at Otis College of Art and Design from 2002–2006, before designing and launching a Master of Fine Arts program in Public Practice for the college in 2007. As of 2018 she is professor of art at the USC Roski School of Art and Design of the University of Southern California.\n\nLacy has won numerous fellowships, including several from the National Endowment for the Arts, a Guggenheim Fellowship, a Creative Capital Emerging Fields Award and the Lila Wallace Arts International Fellowship. She was the first recipient of the Public Art Dialogue Annual Award in 2009. She received the Distinguished Artist Award for Lifetime Achievement from the College Art Association in 2010 and the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Women's Caucus for Art in 2012. She received A Blade of Grass fellowship in 2015.\n\nCommitted to Print\n\nJanuary 31- April 19, 1988\n\nVideo Art: A History\n\nOctober 3, 1983- January 3, 1984\n\nLacy, Suzanne. \"Mapping the Terrain: New Genre Public Art.\" Seattle, Wash, Bay Press, 1996.\n\nLacy, Suzanne. \"Suzanne Lacy: Gender Agendas.\" Milano, Italy, Mousse Publishing, 2015.\n\nRoth, Moira. Lacy, Suzanne. Mey, Kerstin. \"Leaving Art: Writings on Performance, Politics, and Publics 1974-2007.\" Durham, London, Duke University Press, 2010.\n\nLacy, Suzanne. \"Rape Is\". Los Angeles, California,Women's Graphic Center, 1976.\n\nLacy, Suzanne. Irish, Sharon. \"Suzanne Lacy: Spaces Between.\" University of Minnesota Press, 2010.\n\nLacy, Suzanne. Cotts, Virginia. Baughan, Michelle. Art Institute of Chicago, Video Data Bank; Bedford Hills Correctional Facility (N.Y). Auto Body. Publisher: Chicago III, Video Data Bank, 1998.\n\nLacy, Suzanne. Baughan, Michelle. Art Institute of Chicago, Video Data Bank. \"Making the Crystal Quilt.\" Publisher: Chicago III , Video Data Bank, 1998.\n\nLacy, Suzanne. Moragne, David. Morales, Julio Cesar. Holland, Unique. Baughan, Michelle. \"Code 33: Emergency: Clear the Air.\" Publisher: Chicago III, Video Data Bank, 2002.\n\nLacy, Suzanne. \"Whisper, the waves, the wind: Celebrating Older Women.\" Publisher: Chicago III , Video Data Bank, 1986.\n\nHer work is owned by the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles (\"Prostitution Notes\") and The Tate Modern (\"The Crystal Quilt\"). In 2012, the Hammer Museum acquired \"Three Weeks in May\" (1977).\n\n"}
{"id": "1415522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1415522", "title": "Tairora people", "text": "Tairora people\n\nTairora is a tribal group of people living in the Eastern Highlands of Papua New Guinea in or near the Aiyura Valley. They are the traditional enemy of the Gadsup.\n\n"}
{"id": "18846738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18846738", "title": "Tama language (Colombia)", "text": "Tama language (Colombia)\n\nTama is an extinct indigenous Tucanoan language of Colombia. It was spoken in the regions of Vicente, Orteguaza River and Caquetá Region.\n"}
{"id": "3537426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3537426", "title": "Tariana language", "text": "Tariana language\n\nTariana (also Tariano) is an endangered Maipurean (also known as Arawak) language spoken along the Vaupés River in Amazonas, Brazil by approximately 100 people. Another approximately 1,500 people in the upper and middle Vaupés River area identify themselves as ethnic Tariana but no longer speak the language.\n\nThe Tariana and East Tucano peoples are linguistically exogamous and consider fellow speakers of their languages blood relatives. Languages, like tribal identity, are acquired through patrilineal descent and as such are kept strictly separate from one another, with minimal lexical borrowing occurring among them. Traditionally, Indians in the Vaupés region spoke between three and ten other languages, including their mother's tongue and Spanish and/or Portuguese.\n\nSpeakers of Tariana have been switching to the unrelated Tucano language (of the Tucanoan family), which became a lingua franca in the Vaupés region in the late 19th century. Arriving in the region in the 1920s, Salesian missionaries promoted the exclusive use of Tucano among Indians in an effort to convert them. Economic concerns have also led fathers to increasingly leave their families to work for non-Amerindian Brazilians, which has undermined the patrilineal father-child interaction through which Tariana was traditionally acquired. In 1999, efforts were made to teach Tariana as a second language in the secondary school in Iauaretê. Regular classes in Tariana have been offered at the school since 2003.\n\nResearch on Tariana, including a grammar book and a Tariana-Portuguese dictionary, has been done by Alexandra Aikhenvald from the La Trobe University, a specialist on the Arawak language family.\n\nTariana has a relatively large phoneme inventory, compared to other Vaupés languages such as Baniwa and Tucano. It has a rare set of phonotactic restrictions that determine whether phonemes can occur initially or medially and in which types of morphemes. The phoneme , for example, can occur initially in roots but not in affixes or enclitics.\n\nBolded letters indicate the orthography used by Alexandra Aikhenvald in her \"Grammar of Tariana\". IPA transcription is indicated if it differs from the standard orthography.\n\nTariana has 6 vowels, all of which may occur nasalized, except for , or long, except for and .\n\n<br>\nPhonotactic Restrictions on the Occurrence of Vowels\n\n\"ɨ\" occurs only in the augmentative enclitic \"-pɨ\" and in the onomatopoeic \"ɨhmeni\" \"moan\". It also occasionally appears as an allophone of \"i\" in the following words: \"marawati\"→\"marawatɨ\" \"a type of snuff\", \"hitísi\"→\"hitɨsi\" \"tear\", and \"-pití\"→\"pitɨ\" \"chase away, kick\". Its occurrence in Tariana has been ascribed to the influence of Tucano.<br>\n\"õ\" occurs only in the following words: \"tõkẽ\" \"firefly\", \"siwirikõrena\" \"tapiriri, Tapirira guianensis\", \"nuitõ\" \"daughter! (vocative)\", and -tõreta \"roll into a thin roll, like a cigarette\". It also occurs word-initially in place names of Tucano origin (e.g. Õrõreana).\n\nTariana has 24 consonants:\nThe phoneme occurs only in loanwords from Portuguese (e.g. the names \"Graciliano\", \"Gabriel\"). A tendency to insert a glottal stop after word-final has been noted among younger speakers. That has been ascribed to the influence of Tucano.<br>\n<br>\nPhonotactic Restrictions on the Occurrence of Consonants\n\n(+) indicates phoneme appears in a limited set of items.\n\nSyllables in Tariana follow the pattern (C₁)V(C₂). Phoneme occurrence is also restricted by morphological context, with certain phonemes only in certain positions (initially and medially) or within certain types of morphemes. Vowels may be elided or reduced in rapid speech, rendering some syllables VC or CVC. For example, the word \"di-dusitá\" 'he goes back' becomes [didusta] in rapid speech, with the elision of the pre-tonic \"i\". Similarly, the word \"di-pitá-kà-sità\" 'he bathes' becomes [dipitakaəsta], with the pre-tonic \"i\" being elided and a inserted at the clitic boundary before the \"s\". (Hyphens mark affixes; equals signs mark clitics.)\n\nTariana has both primary and secondary stress. Tariana is a pitch-accent language, with stressed syllables indicated by a higher pitch and a greater intensity in pronunciation. Unstressed syllables are undifferentiated from non-stressed syllables except in their intensity. Long vowels are always stressed as well as most nasal vowels. Otherwise, primary stress may fall on the last three syllables. Penultimate stress in most common in monomorphemic words (e.g. \"dúpu\" \"a lizard\"), but antepenultimate (e.g. \"képira\" \"bird\") and final stress (e.g. \"yapuratú\" \"long flute used at ritual offering\") also occurs. All roots have underlying stress. Prefixes are unstressed, and suffixes may be stressed or unstressed. Suffixes with underlying stress generally cause penultimate stress when they are attached to a root (e.g. \"máwi\" \"hook\"→\"mawípi\" \"blowgun\").\n\nVowel Reduction<br>\nIn rapid speech, \"e\", \"i\", and \"a\" are reduced to \"ə\" in pre- and post-tonic syllables. Pre-tonic reduction occurs in the third syllable before the primary stress (e.g. \"yarumakási→yərumamkási\" \"clothing\") as well as in word-initial syllables (e.g. \"yakóreka→yəkóreka\" \"door\"). Vowels are also reduced in syllables preceding a secondary stress (e.g. \"makhà→məkhà\" \"recent past non-visual\"). Post-tonic reduction affects word-final syllables (e.g. \"yásene→yásenə\" \"the Tucano\").<br>\n<br>\nH-Metathesis<br>\nH-metathesis occurs if an h-initial root or suffix follows a prefix or a root, respectively. The process follows one of three patterns:\nIf there are multiple CV syllables preceding the h-initial root or suffix if the C is a stop, nasal, or bilabial glide, the h metathesizes to the first of them.\n\nVowel coalescence occurs, with the \"a\"+\"i\" resulting in an \"e\", but that occurs only in the case of h-metathesis and not elsewhere.\n\nTariana is a polysynthetic language, with both head-marking and dependent-marking elements. Verbs are differentiated by those which take prefixes: active transitive and intransitive, and those which do not: stative verbs and verbs which describe physical states. Nouns divide into those that can be possessed/prefixed and those that are prefixless. Adjectives in Tariana share a number of features with Nouns and Verbs - the majority of affixes used are the same as those of nouns. The -O suffix has generally been lost in Tariana, while the -nuku dependent-marking suffix has been gained. In any non-subject function, this suffix may be added to a noun. There is evidence that dependent markers have been gained via local diffusion, as all Tucano language in the area utilize dependent markers. Overall, dependent markers seem to have been gained in response to the loss of half of the head-markings.\n\nNominal words may include up to 16 structural positions, which are defined as follows (hyphens mark affixes; equals signs marks clitics):\nThe following noun phrase includes 13 of the possible structural positions. Brackets indicate syntactic structure.<br>\n\nTariana uses an Arawak's common set of prefixes to mark A/Sₐ on its verbs and pronominal possession on possessed nouns. These prefixes also form independent personal pronouns when combined with the emphatic particle -ha-.\n\nThe Indefinite Prefix\n\nThis is a nominal morphological aspect shared with Baniwa of Içana and Baré, two of Tariana’s Arawak sisters. This prefix uniquely permits these languages in signifying that the subject/possessor is unknown. However, the prefix appears primarily linked to nouns in Tariana, wherein the others it applies to both nouns and verbs.\n\nPredicates in Tariana may include up to nine affixes, which are defined as follows:\nSuffixes may be followed by a number of enclitics, as follows (note that ! marks a floating clitic):\nThe following verb construction includes 11 of the 20 possible structural positions:<br>\n\nTariana has a system of obligatory [[grammatical tense|tense]]-[[evidentiality]] markers, which take the form of [[clitic]]s on verbs. There are four tenses: present, recent past, remote past, and future. In affirmative clauses, non-future tenses fuse with evidentials to designate visual, non-visual, inferred generic, inferred specific, and reported information. The inferred specific evidential is a recent innovation and has been ascribed to the influence of Tucano. It is a combination of the anterior aspect marker \"-nhi\" and non-present visual evidentials \"-ka\" and \"-na\" producing \"-nhika\" for recent past inferred specific and \"-nhina\" for remote past inferred specific.<br>\n<br>\n\nIn [[interrogative]] clauses, the same three non-future tenses fuse with evidentials to designate visual, non-visual, and inferred information. Evidentiality, in interrogative clauses, indicates the speaker's assumptions about the addressee's source of information. Use of an inferred evidential, for example, implies that the speaker assumes the addressee not to have direct access to evidence on the subject at hand. Note the remote past non-visual is rarely used except as a \"conventionalized conversation sustainer,\" an interrogative repetition of a storyteller's predicates to indicate listeners' attention.\n\nTense-Evidentiality in Interrogative Clauses\n\nThere are two future tense markers in Tariana, neither of which indicates evidentiality. The definite future marker \"-de\" is used only in the first person, but the indefinite future marker \"-mahde\" may be used for any person.\n\n[[Word order]] in Tariana is \"pragmatically based\" and is generally free except for a handful of specific contexts:\n\nNoun phrases comprise a head, which may be a noun, adjective, demonstrative, specifier article, quantifier, or deictic as well as one or more modifiers. Modifiers must agree with the head in animacy and in number if the head is animate. Specifier articles, demonstratives, and the quantifier \"kanapada\" 'how many, how much; this many, this much' always precede the head. All other modifiers may either precede or follow the head. In general, modifiers precede a definite or topical noun and follow an \"indefinite, non-specific, or otherwise inconsequential nominal referent.\"<br>\nEven though the noun 'tapir' has just been introduced, the fact that the adjective 'bad' precedes it indicates that it is well-known or topical.\n\nTariana exhibits an essentially [[nominative–accusative language|nominative–accusative]] [[morphosyntactic alignment]]. Its core cases are broadly analyzed as falling into the categories of A/S 'subject' and non-A/S 'non-subject'.\n\nA stands for a transitive subject, S for a subject of an intransitive verb, S for a subject of an active intransitive verb, Sₒfor a subject of a stative intransitive verb, and S for a subject of an intransitive verb with a non-canonically marked argument.\n\n[[Case-marking]] is determined by the discourse status of the noun ([[topic (linguistics)|topical]], [[topic (linguistics)|non-topical]], [[focus (linguistics)|focused]]).\n\nA noun in the A/S /Sₒcategory is considered focused if it meets one of the following conditions:\nA noun in the non-A/Sₐ/Sₒis considered topical if it meets one of the following conditions:\n\nTariana has two [[oblique case|oblique]] cases: the [[locative case|locational]] and the [[instrumental case|instrumental]]/[[comitative case|comitative]], but only nouns may be marked for bot. Pronouns are marked only for the instrumental/comitative.\nBecause oblique cases are inherently non-A/Sₐ/S, they may be double-marked if they serve as the topic of the sentence as well. The following example is from a hunter's narrative about improving his house, with 'house' being the topic of the narrative. Note that in this sentence, 'house' is marked both as a topical non-A/Sₐ/S and locational.<br>\n\nTariana [[switch reference]] [[enclitics]] indicate whether the action of a dependent clause is simultaneous with or prior to the action of the main clause and whether the subject of the dependent clause is the same or different from the subject of the main clause. In rapid speech, the enclitic \"-hyume\" often becomes \"-yuhme\" or even \"-yume\". \"-Kayami\" can be ponounced \"-kañami\" or \"-kayãmi\". Note that there are several different enclitics for simultaneous action categories. Each enclitic has various restrictions as to which other clitics and affixes with which it may combine and where it may fall within a clause or sentence.\n\nBrackets indicate syntactic structure.\n\n\n[[Category:Arawakan languages]]\n[[Category:Indigenous languages of Western Amazonia]]\n[[Category:Languages of Brazil]]\n[[Category:Languages of Colombia]]\n[[Category:Endangered indigenous languages of the Americas]]"}
{"id": "5744703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5744703", "title": "The Strong Breed", "text": "The Strong Breed\n\nThe Strong Breed is one of the best known plays by Wole Soyinka. It is a tragedy that ends with an individual sacrifice for the sake of the communal benefit. The play is centered on the tradition of egungun, a Yoruba festival tradition in which a scapegoat of the village carries out the evil of the community and is exiled from the civilization. Eman, the play's protagonist, takes on the role of \"carrier\", knowing it will result in beating and exile. He does this to spare a young simpleton the same fate. The ritual takes an unexpected turn as Eman flees. His pursuers set a trap for him that results in his death.\n\nThe play was first published in London in 1964 by Oxford University Press, and subsequently by Rex Collings in 1971.\n"}
{"id": "7375300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7375300", "title": "Udeep tribe", "text": "Udeep tribe\n\nThe Udeep tribe of India represent about 300 families living in northern India. Based solely in the Himachal Pradesh of northern India, the Udeep(s) live in two different towns each controlled by a separate clan. The town of Junkow is the home to the Kulkarni clan while the Chhattispur clan manages the town of Aokini. The Udeep represent some of the last vestiges of Jainism remaining in that region of India and its essence is concern for the welfare of every being in the universe.\n\nA people of Dravidian descent, when they emigrated out southern India aways from the rest of the Dravidians is unclear but the migration appears to have happened in the mid 13th century after they sided with the invading Mongols and were driven out of the Southern Peninsula.\n\n\"The Udeep\" by Anita Palmarni\n\"A History of Jainism in India\" by Dr. Adam Fitzsimmons\n"}
{"id": "13492836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13492836", "title": "Ukrainian dialects", "text": "Ukrainian dialects\n\nA dialect is a territorial, professional or social variant of a standard literary language.\n\nIn the Ukrainian language there are 3 major dialectical groups according to territory: the south-western group, the south-eastern group and the northern group of dialects.\n\nRusyn is considered by some Rusyn linguists and Rusyns to be a separate language:\n\nThe Rusyn language is considered to be a dialect of Ukrainian by Ukrainian linguists:\n\nUkrainian is also spoken by a large émigré population, particularly in Canada, The United States, Brazil, Argentina, and Australia. The founders of this population primarily emigrated from Galicia, which used to be part of Austro-Hungary before World War I, and belonged to Poland between the World Wars. The language spoken by most of them is based on the Galician dialect of Ukrainian from the first half of the twentieth century. Compared with modern Ukrainian, the vocabulary of Ukrainians outside Ukraine reflects less influence of Russian, yet may contain Polish or German loanwords. It often contains many loanwords from the local language as well (e.g. снікерси \"sneekersy,\" for \"sneakers\" in the United States).\n\nIn recent times there have been attempts to categorise some of the Ukrainian dialects into separate languages. This has been happening primarily in the Carpathian regions of Ukraine, but also with the speakers of the Polissian dialect, the Kuban dialect and Rusyn. The debates as to independence of these dialects-languages has promoted inflamed discussions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49151971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49151971", "title": "Uruguayans in Colombia", "text": "Uruguayans in Colombia\n\nUruguayan Colombians are people born in Uruguay who live in Colombia, or Colombian-born people of Uruguayan descent. \n\nThere are lots of Uruguayan-born persons living in Colombia, for a number of reasons. The two countries, located on opposite points of the South American subcontinent, share the Spanish language; the historical origins of both nations is common (part of the Spanish Empire until the early 19th century). \n\nIn the 21st century, Uruguayan entrepreneurs are increasingly arriving in Colombia in search of business opportunities.\n\n\n"}
