{"id": "853540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=853540", "title": "Andean states", "text": "Andean states\n\nThe Andean states () are a group of nations in South America connected by the Andes mountain range. \"Andean States\" is sometimes used to refer to all seven countries that the Andes runs through, regions with a shared culture primarily spread during the times of the Inca Empire (such as the Quechua language and Andean cuisine), or it can be used in a geopolitical sense to designate countries in the region that are members of the Andean Community trade group and have a local (as opposed to European) cultural orientation.\n\nThe Andes extend through the western part of South America in following countries:\n\nWhen grouped as \"the Andean states\", the emphasis is on the mountainous regions of these countries. For example, the Argentine \"pampas\" are not part of the Andean region, but western Argentina along with Chile is part of the Andean region. Venezuela, Colombia, Peru, Ecuador and Bolivia are part of the Andean Community (a trade grouping), and each contains Amazon Rainforest and Amazonian indigenous people as well as Andean mountains.\n\n"}
{"id": "27705189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27705189", "title": "Bellingshausen Plain", "text": "Bellingshausen Plain\n\nBellingshausen Plain (), also known as Bellinghausen Abyssal Plain, is an undersea plain parallel to the continental rise in the Bellingshausen Sea, named for Admiral Fabian Gottlieb von Bellingshausen, commander of the Russian Antarctic Expedition (1818–1821). The name was approved by the Advisory Committee for Undersea Features in April, 1974.\n"}
{"id": "7574993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7574993", "title": "Bus trap", "text": "Bus trap\n\nA bus trap is a metal grate placed over a ditch or pit in the road with tines (sides) spaced far enough apart that small-diameter-wheeled (narrower axle) vehicles fall in between the tines but close enough that larger-diameter-wheeled vehicles, such as buses, may pass. Cycles may cross broader sided examples.\n\nDifferent versions exist for restricting access. The tines cross the path of the road, not parallel with the road direction. Small-wheeled vehicles bottom out in between the tines, preventing the vehicle from continuing over the obstacle.\n\nMany domestic vehicles exist in the 21st century wide enough to navigate bus traps effectively; wide-axle SUVs and 4x4s. Police cars and in some cases motorbikes are hindered by bus traps. Most cities favour other means of keeping cars out of bus-only areas, such as:\n\n"}
{"id": "49182226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49182226", "title": "Candyn", "text": "Candyn\n\nCandyn (also spelled \"Candin\" or \"Candy\") was a supposed remote east-Asian island around the turn of the 15th century.\n\nOn the 1457 Genoese map there is an island of \"Candia\", with a report of a \"large fish\" being captured and brought back to Venice.\n\nIt can be found on Martin Behaim's globe in 1492, where he described it as being: \"foot against foot with respect to our land, and when it is day with us they have night\" (in other words, in the antipodes).\n\nIt appeared on the 1507 map of Johannes Ruysch, the Waldseemüller map, and the Johannes Schöner globe.\n\nIt may be identified with Odoric's island of \"Dondin\".\n\nAlthough speculation has linked it with Ceylon or Indonesian islands, no positive determination has been made matching Candyn with any known physical location.\n\n"}
{"id": "320046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=320046", "title": "Catalan Countries", "text": "Catalan Countries\n\nThe Catalan Countries (, ) refers to those territories where the Catalan language, or a variant of it, is spoken. They include the Spanish regions of Catalonia, Valencia, the Balearic Islands and parts of Aragon and Murcia, as well as Roussillon in France, the Principality of Andorra, and the city of Alghero in Sardinia (Italy). In the context of Catalan nationalism, the term is sometimes used in a more restricted way to refer to just Catalonia, Valencia and the Balearic Islands. The Catalan Countries do not correspond to any present or past political or administrative unit, though most of the area belonged to the Crown of Aragon in the Middle Ages. Parts of Valencia (Spanish) and Catalonia (Occitan) are not Catalan-speaking.\n\nThe \"Catalan Countries\" have been at the centre of both cultural and political projects since the late 19th century. Its mainly cultural dimension became increasingly politically charged by the late 1960s and early 1970s, as Francoism began to die out in Spain, and what had been a cultural term restricted to connoisseurs of Catalan philology became a divisive issue during the Spanish Transition period, most acrimoniously in Valencia during the 1980s. Modern linguistic and cultural projects include the Institut Ramon Llull and the Fundació Ramon Llull, which are run by the governments of the Balearic Islands, Catalonia and Andorra, the General Council of the Pyrénées-Orientales, the city council of Alghero and the Network of Valencian Cities. Politically, it involves a pan-nationalist project to unite the Catalan-speaking territories of Spain and France, often in the context of Catalan independence. The political project does not enjoy wide support, particularly outside Catalonia, where it is viewed as an expression of Catalan expansionism. The term \"Catalan Countries\" is itself controversial, and Valencian nationalists avoid using it.\n\n\"Països Catalans\" has different meanings depending on the context. These can be roughly classified in two groups: linguistic or political, the political definition of the concept being the widest, since it also encompasses the linguistic side of it.\n\nAs a linguistic term, \"Països Catalans\" is used in a similar fashion to the English Anglosphere, the French Francophonie, the Portuguese Lusofonia or the Spanish Hispanophone territories. However, it is not universally accepted, even as a linguistic concept, in the territories it purports to unite.\n\nAs a political term, it refers to a number of political projects as advocated by supporters of Catalan independence. These, based on the linguistic fact, argue for the existence of a common national identity that would surpass the limits of each territory covered by this concept and would apply also to the remaining ones. These movements advocate for \"political collaboration\" amongst these territories. This often stands for their union and political independence. As a consequence of the opposition these political projects have received –notably in some of the territories described by this concept – some cultural institutions avoid the usage of \"Països Catalans\" in some contexts, as a means to prevent any political interpretation; in these cases, equivalent expressions (such as \"Catalan-speaking countries\") or others (such as \"the linguistic domain of Catalan language\") are used instead.\n\nCatalan and its variants are spoken in:\n\n\nCatalan is the official language of Andorra, co-official with Spanish and Occitan in Catalonia, co-official with Spanish in the Balearic Islands and the Valencian Community—with the denomination of \"Valencian\" in the latter—and co-official with Italian in the city of Alghero. It is also part of the recognized minority languages of Italy along with Sardinian, also spoken in Alghero.\n\nIt is not official in Aragon, Murcia or the Pyrénées-Orientales, even though on 10 December 2007 the General Council of the Pyrénées-Orientales officially recognized Catalan, along with French, as a language of the department. In 2009, the Catalan language was declarated \"llengua pròpia\" (with the Aragonese language) of Aragon.\n\nThere are several endeavors and collaborations amongst some of the diverse government and cultural institutions involved. One such case is the Ramon Llull Institute (IRL), founded in 2002 by the government of the Balearic Islands and the government of Catalonia. Its main objective is to promote the Catalan language and culture abroad in all its variants, as well as the works of writers, artists, scientists and researchers of the regions which are part of it. The Xarxa Vives d'Universitats (Vives Network of Universities), an association of universities of Catalonia, Valencia, the Balearic Islands, Northern Catalonia and Andorra founded in 1994, was incorporated into the IRL in 2008. Also in 2008, in order to extend the collaboration to institutions from all across the \"Catalan Countries\", the IRL and the government of Andorra (which formerly had enjoyed occasional collaboration, most notably in the Frankfurt Book Fair of 2007) created the Ramon Llull Foundation (FRL), an international cultural institution with the same goals as the IRL. In 2009, the General Council of the Pyrénées-Orientales, the city council of Alghero and the Network of Valencian Cities (an association of a few Valencian city councils) joined the FRL as well. In December 2012 the government of the Balearic islands, now doninated by the conservative and pro-Spain Partido Popular (PP), announced that the representatives of the Balearic islands were withdrawing from the Llull institute.\n\nA number of cultural organizations, specifically Òmnium Cultural in Catalonia, Acció Cultural del País Valencià in Valencia, and Obra Cultural Balear in the Balearic islands (collectively the \"Llull Federation\"), advocate independence as well as the promotion of Catalan language and culture.\n\nThe political projects that centre on the Catalan Countries have been described as a \"hypothetical and future union\" of the various territories. In many cases it involves the Spanish autonomous communities of Catalonia, Valencia and the Balearics. The 2016 electoral programme of Valencian parties Compromís and Podemos spoke of a \"federation\" between the Valencian Community, the Balearic Islands and Catalonia. They are to campaign for an amendment to article 145 of the Spanish constitution, which forbids federation of autonomous communities. The territories concerned may also include Roussillon and \"La Franja\".\n\nMany in Spain see the concept of the \"Països Catalans\" as regional exceptionalism, counterpoised to a centralizing Spanish and French national identity. Others see it as an attempt by a Catalonia-proper-centered nationalism to lay a hegemonic claim to Valencia, the Balearic Islands or Roussillon, where the prevailing feeling is that they have their own respective historical personalities, not necessarily related to Catalonia's. The Catalan author and journalist Valentí Puig described the term as \"inconvenient\", saying it has generated more reactions against it than adhesions.\n\nThe concept has connotations that have been perceived as problematic and controversial when establishing relations between Catalonia and other areas of the Catalan linguistic domain. It has been characterised as a \"phantom reality\" and an \"unreal and fanciful space\". The pro-Catalan independence author Germà Bel called it an \"inappropriate and unfortunate expression lacking any historic, political or social basis\", while Xosé Manoel Núñez Seixas spoke of the difficulties in uniting a historicist concept linked to common membership of the Crown of Aragon with a fundamentally linguistic construct.\n\nThus, in many parts of the territories designated by some as \"Països Catalans\", Catalan nationalist sentiment is uncommon or nonexistent. For example, in the Valencian Community case, the \"Esquerra Repúblicana del País Valencià\" (ERPV) is the most relevant party explicitly supportive of the idea but its representation is limited to a total of four local councilors elected in three municipalities (out of a total of 5,622 local councilors elected in the 542 Valencian municipalities). At the regional level, it has run twice (2003 and 2007) to the regional Parliament election, receiving less than 0.50% of the total votes. In all, its role in Valencian politics is currently marginal.\n\nThere are other parties which consider this term only in its cultural or linguistical fact, not believing in national-political unity, as in the case of the Bloc Nacionalista Valencià. The Valencian Nationalist Bloc ( or \"BNV\"; ) is the largest Valencian nationalist party in the Valencian Country, Spain. The Bloc's main aim is, as stated in their guidelines, \"to achieve full national sovereignty for the Valencian people, and make it legally declared by a Valencian sovereign Constitution allowing the possibility of association with the countries which share the same language, history and culture\". Since 2011, they are part of the Coalició Compromís coalition, which won six seats in the 2011 Valencian regional elections and 19 in the 2015 elections, becoming the third largest party in the regional parliament.\n\nSome of the most vocal defenders or promoters of the \"Catalan Countries\" concept (such as Joan Fuster, Josep Guia or Vicent Partal) were Valencian.\n\nThe subject became very controversial during the politically agitated Spanish Transition in what was to become the Valencian Community, especially in and around the city of Valencia. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, when the Spanish Autonomous Communities system was taking shape, the controversy reached its height. Various Valencian right-wing politicians (originally from Unión de Centro Democrático) fearing what was seen as an annexation attempt from Catalonia, fueled a violent Anti-Catalanist campaign against local supporters of the concept of the \"Països Catalans\", which even included a handful of unsuccessful attacks with explosives against authors perceived as flagships of the concept, such as Joan Fuster or Manuel Sanchis i Guarner. The concept's revival during this period was behind the formation of the fiercely opposed and staunch anti-Catalan blaverist movement, led by Unió Valenciana, which, in turn, significantly diminished during the 1990s and the 2000s as the \"Països Catalans\" controversy slowly disappeared from the Valencian political arena.\n\nThis confrontation between politicians from Catalonia and Valencia very much diminished in severity during the course of the late 1980s and, especially, the 1990s as the Valencian Community's regional government became consolidated. Since then, the topic has lost most of its controversial potential, even though occasional clashes may appear from time to time, such as controversies regarding the broadcasting of Catalan television in Valencia—and vice versa—or the usage by Catalan official institutions of terms which are perceived in Valencia as Catalan nationalistic, such as \"Països Catalans\" or \"País Valencià\" (\"Valencian Country\").\n\nA 2004 poll in Valencia found that a majority of the population in this region considered Valencian to be a different language to Catalan. In 2015, the Spanish newspaper \"ABC\" reported that the Catalan government of Artur Mas had spent millions of euros to promote Catalanism in Valencia over the previous three years.\n\nAs for the other territories, there are no political parties even mentioning the \"Països Catalans\" as a public issue neither in Andorra, nor in \"la Franja\", Carche or Alghero. In the Balearic islands, support for parties related to Catalan nationalism is around 10% of the total votes. Reversely, the Popular Party –which is a staunch opponent of whatever political implications for the \"Països Catalans\" concept– is the majority party in Valencia and the Balearic islands.\n\nEven though the topic has been largely absent from the political agenda as of late, in December 2013 the regional Parliament of the Balearic islands passed an official declaration in defence of its autonomy and in response to a prior declaration by the Catalan regional Parliament which included reference to the term in question. In the declaration of the Balearic islands parliament, it was stated that the so-called \"\"Països Catalans\" do not exist and the Balearic islands do not take part in any 'Catalan country' whatsoever\".\n\nIn July 2014, the ex-mayor of Alghero, Carlo Sechi, dubbed the official delegations of the Catalan Generalitat and Omnium Cultural in that city as colonialist and as an attempt of interfering with Algherese matters.\n\nThe Spanish Constitution of 1978 contains a clause forbidding the formation of federations amongst autonomous communities. Therefore, if it were the case that the \"Països Catalans\" idea gained a majority democratic support in future elections, a constitutional amendment would still be needed for those parts of the \"Països Catalans\" lying in Spain to create a common legal representative body, even though in the addenda to the Constitution there is a clause allowing an exception to this rule in the case of Navarre, which can join the Basque Country should the people choose to do so.\nCatalans in the French territory of Northern Catalonia, although proud of their language and culture, are not committed to independence. Jordi Vera, a CDC councillor in Perpignan, has said that his party favoured closer trade and transport relationships with Catalonia, and that he believed Catalan independence would improve the prospects of that happening, but that secession from France was \"not on the agenda\". When Catalans took to the streets in 2016 under the banner of \"\" (\"Yes to the Catalan Country\") to protest the French government's decision to combine , the region which contained Northern Catalonia, with to create a new region to be called , the French magazine said that the movement was \"completely unrelated to the situation on the other side of the border\", and that it was \"more directed against Toulouse [the chief city of ] than against Paris or for Barcelona.\" , which stood in the French legislative election, 2017, said that's its aim is a \"territorial collectivity\" within the French Republic on the same lines as Corsica.\n\nThe term \"Països Catalans\" was first documented in 1876 in \"Historia del Derecho en Cataluña, Mallorca y Valencia. Código de las Costumbres de Tortosa, I\" (History of the Law in Catalonia, Majorca and Valencia. Code of the Customs of Tortosa, I) written by the Valencian Law historian Benvingut Oliver i Esteller.\n\nThe term was both challenged and reinforced by the use of the term \"Occitan Countries\" from the Oficina de Relacions Meridionals (Office of Southern Relations) in Barcelona by 1933. Another proposal which enjoyed some popularity during the Renaixença was \"Pàtria llemosina\" (Limousine Fatherland), proposed by Víctor Balaguer as a federation of Catalan-speaking provinces; both these coinages were based on the theory that Catalan is a dialect of Occitan.\n\nNone of these names reached widespread cultural usage and the term nearly vanished until it was rediscovered, redefined and put in the center of the identity cultural debate by Valencian writer Joan Fuster. In his book \"Nosaltres, els valencians\" (\"We, the Valencians\", published in 1962) a new political interpretation of the concept was introduced; from the original, meaning roughly \"Catalan-speaking territories\", Fuster developed a political inference closely associated to Catalan nationalism. This new approach would refer to the Catalan Countries as a more or less unitary nation with a shared culture which had been divided by the course of history, but which should logically be politically reunited. Fuster's preference for \"Països Catalans\" gained popularity, and previous unsuccessful proposals such as \"Comunitat Catalànica\" (\"Catalanic Community\") or \"Bacàvia\" (after Balearics-Catalonia-Valencia) diminished in use.\n\nToday, the term is politically charged, and tends to be closely associated with Catalan nationalism and supporters of Catalan independence. The idea of uniting these territories in an independent state is supported by a number of political parties, ERC being the most important in terms of representation (21 members in the Parliament of Catalonia) and CUP (10 members). ERPV, PSAN (currently integrated in SI), Estat Català also support this idea to a greater or lesser extent.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "144571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144571", "title": "Commercial Revolution", "text": "Commercial Revolution\n\nThe Commercial Revolution consisted in the creation of a European economy based on trade, which began in the 11th century and lasted until it was succeeded by the Industrial Revolution in the mid-18th century. Beginning with the Crusades, Europeans rediscovered spices, silks, and other commodities rare in Europe. This development created a new desire for trade, and trade expanded in the second half of the Middle Ages. Newly forming European states, through voyages of discovery, were looking for alternative trade routes in the 15th and 16th centuries, which allowed the European powers to build vast, new international trade networks. Nations also sought new sources of wealth and practiced mercantilism and colonialism. The Commercial Revolution is marked by an increase in general commerce, and in the growth of financial services such as banking, insurance, and investing.\n\nThe term itself was used by Karl Polanyi in his \"The Great Transformation: \"\"Politically, the centralized state was a new creation called forth by the Commercial Revolution...\". Later the economic historian Roberto Sabatino Lopez, used it to shift focus away from the English Industrial Revolution. In his best-known book, \"The Commercial Revolution of the Middle Ages\" (1971, with numerous reprints), Lopez argued that the key contribution of the medieval period to European history was the creation of a commercial economy between the 10th and the 14th century, centered at first in the Italo-Byzantine eastern Mediterranean, but eventually extending to the Italian city-states and over the rest of Europe. This kind of economy ran from approximately the 14th century through the 18th century. Walt Whitman Rostow placed the beginning \"arbitrarily\" in 1488, the year the first European sailed around the Cape of Good Hope. Most historians, including scholars such as Robert S. Lopez, Angeliki Laiou, Irving W. Raymond, and Peter Spufford indicate that there was a commercial revolution of the 11th-12th centuries, or that it began at this point, rather than later.\n\nItaly first felt huge economic changes in Europe from the 11th to the 13th centuries. Typically there was:\n\nIn recent writing on the city states, American scholar Rodney Stark emphasizes that they married responsive government, Christianity and the birth of capitalism. He argues that Italy consisted of mostly independent towns, who prospered through commerce based on early capitalist principles and kept both direct Church control and imperial power at arm's length.\n\nCambridge University historian and political philosopher Quentin Skinner has pointed out how Otto of Freising, a German bishop who visited central Italy during the 12th century, commented that Italian towns had appeared to have exited from feudalism, so that their society was based on merchants and commerce. Even northern cities and states were also notable for their merchant republics, especially the Republic of Venice. Compared to absolutist monarchies or other more centrally controlled states, the Italian communes and commercial republics enjoyed relative political freedom conducive to academic and artistic advancement. Geographically, and because of trade, Italian cities such as Venice became international trading and banking hubs and intellectual crossroads.\n\nHarvard historian Niall Ferguson points out that Florence and Venice, as well as several other Italian city-states, played a crucial innovative role in world financial developments, devising the main instruments and practices of banking and the emergence of new forms of social and economic organization.\n\nIt is estimated that the per capita income of northern Italy nearly tripled from the 11th century to the 15th century. This was a highly mobile, demographically expanding society, fueled by the rapidly expanding Renaissance commerce.\n\nIn the 14th century, just as the Italian Renaissance was beginning, Italy was the economic capital of Western Europe: the Italian States were the top manufacturers of finished woolen products. However, with the Bubonic Plague in 1348, the birth of the English woolen industry and general warfare, Italy temporarily lost its economic advantage. However, by the late 15th century Italy was again in control of trade along the Mediterranean Sea. It found a new niche in luxury items like ceramics, glassware, lace and silk as well as experiencing a temporary rebirth in the woolen industry.\n\nDuring the 11th century in northern Italy a new political and social structure emerged: the city-state or commune. The civic culture which arose from this \"urbs\" was remarkable. In some places where communes arose (e.g. Britain and France), they were absorbed by the monarchical state as it emerged. They survived in northern and central Italy as in a handful of other regions throughout Europe to become independent and powerful city-states. In Italy the breakaway from their feudal overlords occurred in the late 12th century and 13th century, during the Investiture Controversy between the Pope and the Holy Roman Emperor: Milan led the Lombard cities against the Holy Roman Emperors and defeated them, gaining independence (battles of Legnano, 1176, and Parma, 1248; see Lombard League).\n\nSimilar town revolts led to the foundation of city-states throughout medieval Europe, such as in Russia (Novgorod Republic, 12th century), in Flanders (Battle of Golden Spurs, 14th century) in Switzerland (the towns of the Old Swiss Confederacy, 14th century), in Germany (the Hanseatic League, 14th–15th century), and in Prussia (Thirteen Years' War, 15th century).\n\nSome Italian city-states became great military powers very early on. Venice and Genoa acquired vast naval empires in the Mediterranean and Black Seas, some of which threatened those of the growing Ottoman Empire. During the Fourth Crusade (1204), Venice conquered a quarter of the Byzantine Empire.\n\nThe Maritime Republics were one of the main products of this new civic and social culture based on commerce and exchange of knowledge with other areas of the world outside western Europe. The Republic of Ragusa and the Republic of Venice, for example, had important trade communications with the Muslim and Hindu world and this helped the initial development of the Italian Renaissance.\n\nBy the late 12th century, a new and remarkable society had emerged in Northern Italy; rich, mobile, expanding, with a mixed aristocracy and urban \"borghese\" (burgher) class, interested in urban institutions and republican government. But many of the new city-states also housed violent factions based on family, confraternity and brotherhood, who undermined their cohesion (for instance the Guelphs and Ghibellines).\n\nBy 1300, most of these republics had become princely states dominated by a Signore. The exceptions were Venice, Florence, Lucca, and a few others, which remained republics in the face of an increasingly monarchic Europe. In many cases by 1400 the Signori were able to found a stable dynasty over their dominated city (or group of regional cities), obtaining also a nobility title of sovereignty by their formal superior, for example in 1395 Gian Galeazzo Visconti bought for 100,000 gold florins the title of Duke of Milan from the emperor Wenceslaus.\n\nIn the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, Milan, Venice, and Florence were able to conquer other city-states, creating regional states. The 1454 Peace of Lodi ended their struggle for hegemony in Italy, attaining a balance of power and creating the conditions for the artistic and intellectual changes produced by the Italian Renaissance.\n\n The deterioration of the climate that brought about the end of the medieval warm period (or medieval weather anomaly) caused an economic decline at the beginning of the 14th century (see Great Famine). However, demographic expansion continued until the arrival of the Black Death epidemic in 1347, when ca. 50% of the European population was killed by the plague. The economic effects of a labor shortage actually caused wages to rise, while agricultural yields were once again able to support a diminished population. By the beginning of the 15th century, the economic expansion associated with the Commercial Revolution in earlier centuries returned in full force, aided by improvements in navigation and cartography.\n\nGeopolitical, monetary, and technological factors drove the Age of Discovery. During this period (1450-17th century), the European economic center shifted from the Islamic Mediterranean to Western Europe (Portugal, Spain, France, the Netherlands, and to some extent England). This shift was caused by the successful circumnavigation of Africa, which opened up sea-trade with the east: after Portugal's Vasco da Gama rounded the Cape of Good Hope and landed in Calicut, India in May 1498, a new path of eastern trade was possible, ending the monopoly of the Ottoman Turks and the Italian city-states. The wealth of the Indies was now open for the Europeans to explore; the Portuguese Empire was one of the early European empires to grow from spice trade. Following this, Portugal became the controlling state for trade between east and west, followed later by the Dutch city of Antwerp. Direct maritime trade between Europe and China started in the 16th century, after the Portuguese established the settlement of Goa, India in December 1510, and thereafter that of Macau in southern China in 1557. Since the English came late to the transatlantic trade, their commercial revolution was later as well.\n\nIn 1453, the Ottoman Turks took over Constantinople, which cut off (or significantly increased the cost of) overland trade routes between Europe and the Far East, so alternative routes had to be found. English laws were changed to benefit the navy, but had commercial implications in terms of farming. These laws also contributed to the demise of the Hanseatic League, which traded in northern Europe. Because of the Reconquista, the Spanish had a warrior culture ready to conquer still more people and places, so Spain was perfectly positioned to develop their vast overseas empire.\nRivalry between the European powers produced intense competition for the creation of colonial empires, and fueled the rush to sail out of Europe.\n\nThe need for silver coinage also affected the desire for expanded exploration as silver and gold were spent for trade to the Middle and Far East. The Europeans had a constant deficit in that silver and gold coin only went one way: out of Europe, spent on the very type of trade that they were now cut off from by the Ottomans.\n\nAnother issue was that European mines were exhausted of silver ore and gold. What ore remained was too deep to recover, as water would fill the mine, and technology was not sufficiently advanced enough to successfully remove the water to get to the ore or gold.\n\nA second argument is that trade during the youth of the Commercial Revolution blossomed not due to explorations for bullion (gold and silver coinings) but due to a new found faith in gold coinage. Italian city-states such as Genoa and Florence (where the first gold coins began to be minted in 1252) and kingdoms such as the Kingdom of Sicily routinely received gold through such trading partners as Tunisia and Senegal. A new, stable and universally accepted coinage that was both compatible with traditional European coinage systems and serviced the increased demand for currency to facilitate trade made it even more lucrative to carry out trade with the rest of the world.\n\nFrom the 16th to 18th centuries, Europeans made remarkable maritime innovations. These innovations enabled them to expand overseas and set up colonies, most notably during the 16th and 17th centuries. They developed new sail arrangements for ships, skeleton-based shipbuilding, the Western “galea” (at the end of the 11th century), sophisticated navigational instruments, and detailed charts and maps.\nAfter Isaac Newton published the \"Principia\", navigation was transformed, because sailors could predict the motion of the moon and other celestial objects using Newton's theories of motion. Starting in 1670, the entire world was measured using essentially modern latitude instruments. In 1676, the British Parliament declared that navigation was the greatest scientific problem of the age and in 1714 offered a substantial financial prize for the solution to finding longitude. This spurred the development of the marine chronometer, the lunar distance method and the invention of the octant after 1730. By the late 18th century, navigators replaced their prior instruments with octants and sextants.\n\nSignificant contributors to European exploration include Prince Henry the Navigator of Portugal, who was the first of the Europeans to venture out into the Atlantic Ocean, in 1420. Others are Bartolomeu Dias, who first rounded the Cape of Good Hope; Vasco da Gama, who sailed directly to India from Portugal; Ferdinand Magellan, the first to circumnavigate the Earth; Christopher Columbus, who significantly encountered the Americas; Jacques Cartier, who sailed for France, looking for the Northwest Passage; and others.\n\nThe economy of the Roman Empire had been based on money, but after the Empire's fall, money became scarce; power and wealth became strictly land based, and local fiefs were self-sufficient. Because trade was dangerous and expensive, there were not many traders, and not much trade. The scarcity of money did not help; however, the European economic system had begun to change in the 14th century, partially as a result of the Black Death, and the Crusades.\n\nBanks, stock exchanges, and insurance became ways to manage the risk involved in the renewed trade. New laws came into being. Travel became safer as nations developed. Economic theories began to develop in light of all of the new trading activity. The increase in the availability of money led to the emergence of a new economic system, and new problems to go with it. The Commercial Revolution is also marked by the formalization of pre-existing, informal methods of dealing with trade and commerce.\n\nSpain legally amassed approximately 180 tons of gold and 8200 tons of silver through its endeavors in the New World, and another unknown amount through smuggling, spending this money to finance wars and the arts. The spent silver, suddenly being spread throughout a previously cash starved Europe, caused widespread inflation. The inflation was worsened by a growing population but a static production level, low employee salaries and a rising cost of living. This problem, combined with underpopulation (caused by the Black Death), affected the system of agriculture. The landholding aristocracy suffered under the inflation, since they depended on paying small, fixed wages to peasant tenants that were becoming able to demand higher wages. The aristocracy made failed attempts to counteract this situation by creating short-term leases of their lands to allow periodic revaluation of rent. The manorial system (manor system of lord and peasant tenant) eventually vanished, and the landholding aristocrats were forced to sell pieces of their land in order to maintain their style of living. Such sales attracted the rich bourgeois (from the French word referring to this dominant class, emerging with commerce), who wanted to buy land and thereby increase their social status. Former \"common lands\" were fenced by the landed bourgeois, a process known as \"enclosure\" which increased the efficiency of raising livestock (mainly sheep's wool for the textile industry). This \"enclosure\" forced the peasants out of rural areas and into the cities, resulting in urbanization and eventually the industrial revolution.\n\nOn the other hand, the increase in the availability of silver coin allowed for commerce to expand in numerous ways. Inflation was not all bad.\n\nVarious legal and religious developments in the late Middle Ages allowed for development of the modern banking system at the beginning of the 16th century. Interest was allowed to be charged, and profits generated from holding other people's money.\n\nBanks in the Italian Peninsula had great difficulty operating at the end of the 14th century, for lack of silver and gold coin. Nevertheless, by the later 16th century, enough bullion was available that many more people could keep a small amount hoarded and used as capital.\n\nIn response to this extra available money, northern European banking interests came along; among them was the Fugger family. The Fuggers were originally mine owners, but soon became involved in banking, charging interest, and other financial activities. They dealt with everyone, from small-time individuals, to the highest nobility. Their banks even loaned to the emperors and kings, eventually going bankrupt when their clients defaulted. This family, and other individuals, used Italian methods which outpaced the Hanseatic League's ability to keep up with the changes occurring in northern Europe.\n\nAntwerp had one of the first money exchanges in Europe, a Bourse, where people could change currency. After the Siege of Antwerp (1584-1585), the majority of business transactions were moved to Amsterdam. The Bank of Amsterdam, following the example of a private Stockholm corporation, began issuing paper money to lessen the difficulty of trade, replacing metal (coin and bullion) in exchanges. In 1609 the \"Amsterdamsche Wisselbank\" (Amsterdam Exchange Bank) was founded which made Amsterdam the financial center of the world until the Industrial Revolution. In a notable example of crossover between stock companies and banks, the Bank of England, which opened in 1694, was a joint-stock company.\n\nBanking offices were usually located near centers of trade, and in the late 17th century, the largest centers for commerce were the ports of Amsterdam, London, and Hamburg. Individuals could participate in the lucrative East India trade by purchasing bills of credit from these banks, but the price they received for commodities was dependent on the ships returning (which often did not happen on time) and on the cargo they carried (which often was not according to plan). The commodities market was very volatile for this reason, and also because of the many wars that led to cargo seizures and loss of ships.\n\nTrade in this period was a risky business: war, weather, and other uncertainties often kept merchants from making a profit, and frequently an entire cargo would disappear all together. To mitigate this risk, the wealthy got together to share the risk through stock: people would own shares of a venture, so that if there was a loss, it would not be an all consuming loss costing the individual investor everything in one transaction.\n\nOther ways of dealing with the risk and expense associated with all of the new trade activity include insurance and joint stock companies which were created as formal institutions. People had been informally sharing risk for hundreds of years, but the formal ways they were now sharing risk was new.\n\nEven though the ruling classes would not often directly assist in trade endeavors, and individuals were unequal to the task, rulers such as Henry VIII of England established a permanent Royal Navy, with the intention of reducing piracy, and protecting English shipping.\n\nStock exchanges were developed as the volume of stock transactions increased. The London Royal Exchange established in 1565 first developed as a securities market, though by 1801 it had become a stock exchange.\n\nHistorian Fernand Braudel suggests that in Cairo in the 11th-century Muslim and Jewish merchants had already set up every form of trade association and had knowledge of every method of credit and payment, disproving the belief that these were invented later by Italians. In 12th century France the \"courratiers de change\" were concerned with managing and regulating the debts of agricultural communities on behalf of the banks. Because these men also traded with debts, they could be called the first brokers. In late 13th century Bruges commodity traders gathered inside the house of a man called \"Van der Beurse\", and in 1309 they became the \"Bruges Beurse\", institutionalizing what had been, until then, an informal meeting. The idea quickly spread around Flanders and neighboring counties and \"Beurzen\" soon opened in Ghent and Amsterdam.\n\n\"In the middle of the 13th century Venetian bankers began to trade in government securities. In 1351 the Venetian government outlawed spreading rumors intended to lower the price of government funds.\" Bankers in Pisa, Verona, Genoa and Florence also began trading in government securities during the 14th century. This practice was only possible, because these independent city states were not ruled by a duke but a council of influential citizens. The Dutch later started joint stock companies, which let shareholders invest in business ventures and get a share of their profits - or losses. In 1602, the Dutch East India Company issued the first shares on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange. It was the first company to issue stocks and bonds.\n\nThe Amsterdam Stock Exchange (or Amsterdam Beurs) is also said to have been the first stock exchange to introduce continuous trade in the early 17th century. The Dutch \"pioneered short selling, option trading, debt-equity swaps, merchant banking, unit trusts and other speculative instruments, much as we know them.\"\n\nInsurance companies were another way to mitigate risk. Insurance in one form or another has been around as far back as there are records. What differed about insurance going into the 16th and 17th centuries was that these informal mechanisms became formalized.\n\nLloyd's of London came into being in 1688 in English coffee shops that catered to sailors, traders, and others involved in trade. Lloyd's coffeehouse published a newspaper, which gave news from various parts of the world, and helped the underwriters of the insurance at the coffeehouse to determine the risk. This innovation was one of many that allowed for the categorization of risk. Another innovation was the use of ship catalogs and classifications.\n\nOther forms of insurance began to appear as well. After the Great Fire of London, Nicholas Barbon began to sell fire insurance in 1667.\n\nLaws were changed to deal with insurance issues, such as \"l'Ordonnance de la Marine\" (by Colbert in 1681).\n\nAs the economy grew through the Commercial Revolution, so did attempts to understand and influence it. Economic theory as a separate subject of its own came into being as the stresses of the new global order brought about two opposing theories of how a nation accumulates wealth: mercantilistic and free-trade policies. Mercantilism inflamed the growing hostilities between the increasingly centralized European powers as the accumulation of precious metals by governments was seen as important to the prestige and power of a modern nation. This involvement in accumulating gold and silver (among other things) became important in the development of the nation-state. Governments' involvement in trade affected the nobility of western European nations, because increased wealth by non-nobles threatened the nobility's place in society.\n\nGovernments became involved in trade directly through the granting of royal trade monopolies. For example, Walter Raleigh had been granted a trade monopoly by Queen Elizabeth, for the export of broadcloth and wine. Ironically, competition between colonial powers led to their granting of trade monopolies to the East India Companies.\n\nA triangular trade occurred in this period: between Africa, North America, and England; and it worked in the following way: Slaves came from Africa, and went to the Americas; raw materials came from the Americas and went to Europe; from there, finished goods came from Europe and were sold back to the Americas at a much higher price.\n\nBecause of the massive die-off of the indigenous people, the Atlantic Slave Trade was established to import the labor required for the extraction of resources (such as gold and silver) and farming.\n\nLaws began to change to deal with commerce, both internationally, and locally within individual countries.\n\nIn France, for example, the Ordinance of Marine of Louis XIV was published under the auspices of Colbert in 1691, and was the first complete code of maritime and commercial law; and \"when we consider the originality and extent of the design and the ability with which it is executed, we shall not hesitate to admit that it deserves to be ranked among the noblest works that legislative genius and learning have ever accomplished.\"\nIn England, the Navigation Acts were among the British effort to regulate trade.\n\nThe Commercial Revolution, coupled with other changes in the Early Modern Period, had dramatic effects on the globe. Christopher Columbus and the conquistadors, through their travels, were indirectly responsible for the massive depopulation of South America. They were directly responsible for destroying the civilizations of the Inca, Aztec, and Maya in their quest to build the Spanish Empire. Other Europeans similarly affected the peoples of North America as well.\n\nAn equally important consequence of the Commercial Revolution was the Columbian Exchange. Plants and animals moved throughout the world due to human movements. For example, Yellow fever, previously unknown in North and South America, was imported through water that ships took on in Africa. Cocoa (chocolate), coffee, maize, cassava, and potatoes moved from one hemisphere to the other.\n\nFor more than 2000 years, the Mediterranean Sea had been the focus of European trade with other parts of the world. After 1492, this focus shifted to the Atlantic Ocean by routes south around the Cape of Good Hope, and by trans-Atlantic trade.\n\nAnother important change was the increase in population. Better food and more wealth allowed for larger families. The migration of peoples from Europe to the Americas allowed for European populations to increase as well. Population growth provided the expanding labor force needed for industrialization.\n\nAnother important outcome of Europe's commercial revolution was a foundation of wealth needed for the industrial revolution. Economic prosperity financed new forms of cultural expression during this period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48293243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48293243", "title": "Croatian Nobles Square (Zagreb)", "text": "Croatian Nobles Square (Zagreb)\n\nCroatian Nobles Square () is one of the central squares in Zagreb. It was designed in 1923 urban plan as entry to the then new eastern part of the town. Draškovićeva street is on the western side of the square, Martićeva street begins on the north side, while a road and tram line go through the middle of the square to the Rački street and Square of the Victims of Fascism.\n\nArea of present-day square wasn't urbanized until the end of the First World War and was used as a fairground.\n\nThe square is formed by two symmetrically placed monumental palaces that were constructed in 1927; first is the Palace of the Exchange (work of architect Viktor Kovačić), today used by the Croatian National Bank, and the second Palace (work of the architect Aladar Baranyai), today used by the State Office for Croats Abroad.\n\nThe western side of the square consists of a four-store terraced houses that go along the Draškovićeva street. At the corner of the Jurišićeva street is 1929 residential-office-commercial building (work by modernist architect Bela Auer), and next to it is a 1931 building (work by architect Paul Deutsch). On the north side of the square on the corner of Draškovićeva street is a 1928 commercial and residential building Janeković (work by architect Hugo Ehrlich). Next to it is a series of buildings that continue to Martićeva street.\n\nIn 1995, square was decorated with two large triangular fountains in front of the building of the Croatian National Bank and the State Office for Croats Abroad (work of architect Mihajlo Kranjc).\n\nBeing one of the most prominent squares in Zagreb its name was often changed in accordance to political circumstances of the time:\n\n"}
{"id": "49097965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49097965", "title": "Dobrun Monastery", "text": "Dobrun Monastery\n\nDobrun Monastery () is located in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 12 km away from town of Višegrad, in the gorge of the Rzav river near the border with Republic of Serbia. Dobrun Monastery is dedicated to the Dormition of the Virgin and was built in 1343 by Duke Pribil and his sons Stefan and Petar.\n"}
{"id": "29512286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29512286", "title": "Ecclesiastical capital", "text": "Ecclesiastical capital\n\nThe religious capital or ecclesiastical capital of a region is a place considered pre-eminent by the adherents of a particular religion within that region. This is most often significant for the region's predominant religion or state religion, if any. The administrative headquarters of an organised religion may be centralised in a particular location; for example, Rome for the Catholic Church, or Salt Lake City for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In an episcopal church, the site of the cathedral of the primate bishop of an area may be considered its ecclesiastical capital; for example, Armagh is the seat of the primate of All Ireland in both the Catholic church and the Anglican church. Other places may be considered religious capitals by being centres of learning, such as Qom for Shia Islam in Iran; or places of pilgrimage, such as Varanasi for Hinduism.\n\n"}
{"id": "3957494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3957494", "title": "Erik Swyngedouw", "text": "Erik Swyngedouw\n\nErik Achille Marie Swyngedouw (; born 30 July 1956) is professor of geography at the University of Manchester in the School of Environment, Education and Development and a member of the Manchester Urban Institute. \n\nBorn in Dutch-speaking Belgium and fluent in Dutch, English, French, and Spanish, he graduated from Sint-Jozefscollege, Hasselt in 1974. He graduated with an MSc in Agricultural Engineering from the Catholic University of Leuven in 1979, with a thesis focussed on agrarian change in the community of Heers. His 1985 Master in Urban and Regional Planning was also from Leuven. He earned his PhD with a thesis entitled \"The production of new spaces of production\" under the supervision of the renowned Marxist geographer David Harvey at Johns Hopkins University in 1991. From 1988 until 2006 Swyngedouw taught at the University of Oxford, latterly as professor of geography and was a fellow of St. Peter's College. He is currently Professor of Human Geography at the University of Manchester, England. He is also visiting professor at the University of Ghent, Belgium. He has worked and taught in the USA, France, Belgium, Spain, Germany, Ecuador, and Greece\n\nSwyngedouw has committed his studies to political economic analysis of contemporary capitalism, producing several major works on economic globalisation, regional development, finance, and urbanisation. His interests have also included political-ecological themes, and the transformation of nature, urban governance, politics of scale, notably water issues, in Ecuador, Spain, the UK, and elsewhere in Europe. His recent work focuses on the democratic politics and the strategies and tactics of new political movements, and the political ecology of desalination. He has published over 100 academic papers in leading academic journals in geography and cognate disciplines and in scholarly books.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "870171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=870171", "title": "Extreme points of Norway", "text": "Extreme points of Norway\n\nThe extreme points of Norway include the coordinates that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location in Norway; and the highest and the lowest altitudes in the country. The northernmost point is Rossøya on Svalbard, the southernmost is Pysen in Mandal, the easternmost is Kræmerpynten on Svalbard, and the westernmost is Høybergodden on Jan Mayen. The highest peak is Galdhøpiggen, standing at above mean sea level, while the lowest elevation is sea level at the coast.\n\nThe Norwegian Antarctic Territory—consisting of Queen Maud Land, Peter I Island and Bouvet Island—are not part of the Kingdom of Norway. Norway administrates the claims based on the Antarctic Treaty System; therefore they are sometimes considered part of a wider definition of Norway. If included, the Norwegian Antarctic Territory accounts the southernmost, easternmost, westernmost and highest extreme points.\n\nThe latitude and longitude are expressed in degrees, minutes and seconds, in which an \"N\" value refers to the northern hemisphere, and an \"S\" value refers to the southern hemisphere. Similarly, a \"E\" longitude value refers to the eastern hemisphere, and a \"W\" refers to the western hemisphere. The extreme points of latitude and longitude are published by the Norwegian Mapping Authority, while the elevations are published by the World Fact Book. Both make use of the World Geodetic System (WGS) 84, a geodetic reference system.\n\nFor the Kingdom of Norway, the northernmost point is Rossøya, just north of Nordaustlandet on the Svalbard archipelago, bordering the Barents Sea. The southernmost point is Pysen in Mandal bordering Skagerrak—the only latitude and longitude extreme point that is in Norway proper. The easternmost location is Kræmerpynten on Svalbard, bordering the Barents Sea, while the westernmost point is Høybergodden on Jan Mayen, bordering the Greenland Sea.\n\nAll four latitude and longitude extreme points are bordering the sea; due to the geographic nature of the coastline, all extremities are located on islands. Therefore, extreme points of the Norwegian mainland are also included in the list. The northernmost point is Knivskjellodden, located in Magerøya in Finnmark. The northernmost mainland point is Cape Nordkinn, located in Lebesby, Finnmark; this is also the northernmost location of mainland Europe. Both border the Barents Sea. The southernmost location of Norway proper is Pysen, while the southernmost mainland location is Lindesnes; both border Skagerrak. The easternmost point is Hornøya, with Kibergsneset being the easternmost mainland location. Both are in Vardø in Finnmark. The westernmost location is Holmebåen in Solund, Sogn og Fjordane, while the westernmost mainland location is Vardetangen in Austrheim, Hordaland. Both border the North Sea.\n\nIf Antarctica is included, the southernmost point is the South Pole. All seven Antarctic claims meet there, so this point borders all other six territories. The easternmost point is the border between Queen Maud Land and the Australian Antarctic Territory, which follows the 45th meridian east. The westernmost point is Peter I Island. As the only Antarctic claim that is not a sector, it borders the Amundsen Sea.\n\nThe highest point in the kingdom is Galdhøpiggen, which, standing at above mean sea level, is located in Lom. Galdhøpiggen is part of the Jotunheimen mountain range, as well as Jotunheimen National Park. It is also the highest peak along the Scandinavian Mountains. If Antarctica is included, the highest peak is Jøkulkyrkja, standing at . It is located in the Mühlig-Hofmann Mountains in Princess Astrid Coast. Norway's lowest point is located on the coast, at sea level. The coast stretches , including fjords, bays and islands.\n\nOnly public transportation.\n"}
{"id": "1766802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1766802", "title": "Fall Creek Falls", "text": "Fall Creek Falls\n\nAt 256 feet, Fall Creek Falls is the highest free-fall waterfall east of the Mississippi River. The falls are located near Spencer, Tennessee in Fall Creek Falls State Park. A short trail leads from the parking lot atop the plateau down to the base of the gorge, giving access to the waterfall's plungepool. When water flow is sufficient, Coon Creek Falls shares a plungepool.\n"}
{"id": "9378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9378", "title": "Geography of Eritrea", "text": "Geography of Eritrea\n\nEritrea is located in the Horn of Africa and is bordered on the northeast and east by the Red Sea, on the west and northwest by Sudan, on the south by Ethiopia, and on the southeast by Djibouti. The country has a high central plateau that varies from above sea level. A coastal plain, western lowlands, and some 350 islands comprise the remainder of Eritrea's land mass. Eritrea has no year-round rivers.\n\nThe climate of Eritrea is shaped by its diverse topography and its location within the tropics. \nThe diversity in landscape and topography in the highlands and lowlands of Eritrea result in the diversity of climate across the \ncountry. The highlands have temperate climate throughout out the year. The climate of most lowland zones is arid and semiarid. The distribution of rainfall and vegetation types varies markedly throughout the country. Eritrean climate varies on the basis of seasonal and altitudinal differences. Based on variations in temperature Eritrea can be broadly divided into three major climate zones: a temperate zone, a subtropical climate zone and a tropical climate zone.\n\nEritrea can be divided into three major climate zones : the central highlands, the coastal region, and the western lowlands. Each has a different climate pattern. According to Köppen climate classification, Eritrea have either a hot semi-arid climate (\"BSh\") or a hot desert climate (\"BWh\"), although temperatures are much moderated at the highest elevations.\n\nIn the central highlands, the hottest month is usually May to June with highs around 27 °C (80.6 °F) to 30 °C (86 °F). Winter is between December and February with lows at night that can be near freezing point. Asmara itself enjoys a pleasant climate all year round, although it can be quite cold at night in winter. There are two rainy seasons: the short rains in March and April and the main rains from late June to the beginning of September.\nOver there, the climate is usually sunny and dry as sunshine durations turn around 3,000 h and averages annual rainfall hover around 500 mm (19.68 in).\nOn the coast along the Red Sea, the summertime is long, from June to September and extremely hot with averages high temperatures ranging from 40 °C (104 °F) to 46 °C (114.8 °F), and it's even hotter in Denkalia. The wintertime is nearly non-existent and averages high temperatures remain above 28 °C (82.4 °F) during the least hot month of the year and averages low temperatures exceed 20 °C (68 °F). The rainy season along the coast north of Denkalia falls during the winter months but rainy days still remain scarce ; rainfall is even more rare in Denkalia Region. The climate is always sunny and dry in this zone and cloudy days are rare.\n\nIn the western lowlands, the high temperatures are comparable to those on the coast in the hottest months of April until June. December is the coolest month with averages low temperatures falling as low as 15 °C (59 °F). The rainy seasons are the same as for the highlands.\n\nLocation:\nEastern Africa, bordering the Red Sea, between Djibouti and Sudan, also bordering on Ethiopia.\n\nGeographic coordinates: )\n\nMap references:\nAfrica\n\nArea:\n<br>\"total:\"\n117,600 km²\n<br>\"land:\"\n101,000 km²\n<br>\"water:\"\n16,600 km²\n\nArea - comparative:\nslightly larger than Pennsylvania\n\nLand boundaries:\n<br>\"total:\"\n1 840 km\n<br>\"border countries:\"\nDjibouti 125 km, Ethiopia 1,033 km, Sudan 682 km\n\nNote that the border between Eritrea and Ethiopia is disputed.\n\nCoastline:\n2 234 km total; mainland on Red Sea 1 151 km, islands in Red Sea 1 083 km\n\nMaritime claims:\nterritorial sea: 12 nm\n\nTerrain:\ndominated by extension of Ethiopian north-south trending highlands, descending on the east to a coastal desert plain, on the northwest to hilly terrain and on the southwest to flat-to-rolling plains\n\nEcoregions:\nMost of Eritrea's coast is part of the Ethiopian xeric grasslands and shrublands semi-desert ecoregion. The southern part of the Red Sea coast, along with the Red Sea coast of Djibouti, has been described as the Eritrean coastal desert, a harsh sand and gravel coastal strip covered in dune grasses and shrubs that is important as a channel for the mass migration of birds of prey.\n\nElevation extremes:\n<br>\"lowest point:\"\nnear Lake Kulul within the Afar Depression −75 m\n<br>\"highest point:\"\nSoira 3 018 m\n\nNatural resources:\ngold, potash, zinc, copper, salt, possibly petroleum and natural gas, fish\n\nLand use:\n<br>\"arable land:\"\n6.83%\n<br>\"permanent crops:\"\n0.02%\n<br>\"other:\"\n93.15% (2012 est.)\n\nIrrigated land:\n215.9 km² (2003)\n\nTotal renewable water resources:\n6.3 km\n\nFreshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):\n<br>\"total:\"\n0.58 km/yr (5%/0%/95%)\n<br>\"per capita:\"\n121.3 m/yr (2004)\n\nNatural hazards:\nfrequent droughts, rare earthquakes and volcanic activity, and locust storms\n\nEnvironment - current issues:\ndeforestation; desertification; soil erosion; overgrazing; loss of infrastructure from civil warfare;\n\nEnvironment - international agreements:\n<br>\"party to:\"\nBiodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Ozone Layer Protection\n<br>\"signed, but not ratified:\"\nnone of the selected agreements\n\nGeography - note:\nstrategic geopolitical position along world's busiest shipping lanes; Eritrea retained the entire coastline of Ethiopia along the Red Sea upon \"de jure\" independence from Ethiopia on 24 May 1993.\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Eritrea, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n"}
{"id": "12130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12130", "title": "Geography of Grenada", "text": "Geography of Grenada\n\nGrenada is a Caribbean island (one of the Grenadines) between the Caribbean Sea and Atlantic Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago. It is located at . There are no large inland bodies of water on the island, which consists entirely of the state of Grenada. The coastline is 121 km long.\n\nThe island has 15 constituencies and speaks English. It is volcanic in origin and its topography/landscape is mountainous.\n\nNatural resources include timber, tropical fruit and deepwater harbors.\n\nGrenada and its largely uninhabited outlying territories are the most southerly of the Windward Islands. The Grenadine Islands chain consists of some 600 islets; those south of the Martinique Channel belong to Grenada, while those north of the channel are part of the nation of St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Located about 160 kilometers north of Venezuela, at approximately 12° north latitude and 61° west longitude, Grenada and its territories occupy a small area of 433 square kilometers. Grenada, known as the Spice Isle because of its production of nutmeg and mace, is the largest at 310 square kilometers, or about the size of Detroit. The island is oval shaped and framed by a jagged southern coastline; its maximum width is thirty-four kilometers, and its maximum length is nineteen kilometers. St. George's, the capital and the nation's most important harbor, is favorably situated near a lagoon on the southwestern coast. Of all the islands belonging to Grenada, only two are of consequence: Carriacou, with a population of a few thousand, and its neighbor Petit Martinique, roughly 40 kilometers northeast of Grenada and populated by some 700 inhabitants.\n\nPart of the volcanic chain in the Lesser Antilles arc, Grenada and its possessions generally vary in elevation from under 300 meters to over 600 meters above sea level. Grenada is more rugged and densely foliated than its outlying possessions, but other geographical conditions are more similar. Grenada's landmass rises from a narrow, coastal plain in a generally north-south trending axis of ridges and narrow valleys. Mount St. Catherine is the highest peak at 840 meters.\n\nAlthough many of the rocks and soils are of volcanic origin, the volcanic cones dotting Grenada are long dormant. The only known active volcano in the area is Kick 'em Jenny, just north between Grenada and Carriacou. Some of the drainage features on Grenada remain from its volcanic past. There are a few crater lakes, the largest of which is Grand Etang. The swift upper reaches of rivers, which occasionally overflow and cause flooding and landslides, generally cut deeply into the conic slopes. By contrast, many of the water courses in the lowlands tend to be sluggish and meandering.\n\nThe Grenadan climate is tropical, tempered by northeast trade winds. The land is volcanic in origin with mountains in the interior. The lowest point is at sea level, and the highest is on Mount Saint Catherine.\nThe abundance of water is primarily caused by the tropical, wet climate. Yearly precipitation, largely generated by the warm and moisture-laden northeasterly trade winds, varies from more than on the windward mountainsides to less than in the lowlands. The greatest monthly totals are recorded throughout Grenada from June through November, the months when tropical storms and hurricanes are most likely to occur. Rainfall is less pronounced from December through May, when the equatorial low-pressure system moves south. Similarly, the highest humidities, usually close to 80 percent, are recorded during the rainy months, and values from 68 to 78 percent are registered during the drier period. Temperatures averaging are constant throughout the year, however, with slightly higher readings in the lowlands. Nevertheless, diurnal ranges within a 24-hour period are appreciable: between during the day and between at night.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47645882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47645882", "title": "Gimbal, Inc.", "text": "Gimbal, Inc.\n\nGimbal is a Santa Monica, CA-based mobile advertising, location solutions, and data company. The company develops technology that allows its customers to deliver custom content to audiences either via advertising or push notifications.\n\nGimbal consists of two formerly independent companies: The Mobile Majority and Gimbal, Inc. In December 2016, Gimbal, Inc. was acquired by Santa Monica-based The Mobile Majority, and in April 2017 the company changed its name to Gimbal.\n\nGimbal was originally part of San Diego-based chip manufacturer Qualcomm, and launched its first products as Qualcomm Retail Solutions. One of the early customers was the Sacramento Kings basketball team, who used beacon technology to send mobile offers and communications to fans attending games at the team's arena.\n\nIn April 2014, Qualcomm announced that it was spinning off the business unit to outside investors, which included individuals as well as the i-Hatch LBS Fund, a fund created with investments from companies including Zebra Technologies, AEG and SK Planet. Qualcomm reportedly kept a substantial but non-controlling interest. The transaction was completed in May, and Rocco Fabiano was named the company's first CEO. In October, baseball and football teams were using Gimbal's technology to communicate with fans, including giving messages about shorter concession lines at the stadiums. Also that month, a pilot advertising program in New York City launched where beacons were installed in phone booths, to reach pedestrians. The program was shut down because the installer, New York based transit advertising company Titan, now Sidewalk Labs, a subsidiary of Google, had not received the necessary approvals from the City.\n\nIn June 2015, the company announced firmware to turn any Bluetooth LE device into a beacon. In July, Jeff Russakow became the company's new CEO, and Rocco Fabiano, who had led the transition of Gimbal out of Qualcomm, assumed the role of Chairman. By then, Gimbal reportedly had the largest deployment of Bluetooth beacons in the US. Also in July, the company introduced a low cost, USB-powered Bluetooth beacon to add beacon functionality to devices with USB ports, such as vending machines. In August, the company announced a partnership with do it outdoors, a mobile media company, to create a fleet of roving proximity ads. Consumers with the correct app on their phone and within 50 meters of a beacon would receive push notifications.\n\nIn December 2016, Gimbal was acquired by Santa Monica-based The Mobile Majority, reportedly in order to better target consumers with mobile advertising campaigns. The Mobile Majority then changed its name to Gimbal.\n\nGimbal products include the following:\n\n\nThe company targets four areas with its beacon technology:\n\n\nGimbal's technology has raised security concerns related to customer privacy. Unlike GPS, which isn't very accurate, and doesn't work indoors or in dense cities, beacons have more precise location sensing capabilities. Analysts have been quoted as saying that wider adoption of the technology requires addressing these concerns. In interviews, the company described how it was addressing these concerns, by only allowing their beacons to work with Gimbal-enabled apps that consumers download to their smartphones. Unlike some other beacon technology, it was reported that Gimbal's beacons will not connect to a phone that isn't running a specific app. The company also announced that they have developed a rolling encrypted code to ensure only users with the correct privileges can see the beacon's information, and that their technology is TRUSTe-certified. The company also sits on the board advisory committee for the Washington, DC-based Future of Privacy Forum, an organization with the stated mission to promote responsible data practices.\n"}
{"id": "10832418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10832418", "title": "History of navigation", "text": "History of navigation\n\nThe history of navigation is the history of seamanship, the art of directing vessels upon the open sea through the establishment of its position and course by means of traditional practice, geometry, astronomy, or special instruments. A few people have excelled as seafarers, prominent among them the Austronesians, their descendants the Malays, Micronesians, and Polynesians, the Harappans, the Phoenicians, the ancient Greeks, the Romans, the Arabs, the ancient Indians, the Norse, the Chinese, the Venetians, the Genoese, the Hanseatic Germans, the Portuguese, the Spanish, the English, the French, the Dutch and the Danes.\nNavigation in the Pacific began at some point between about 3000 and 1000 BC, by Austronesians from Taiwan. By about 900 BC their descendants had spread more than 6,000 kilometers across the Pacific, reaching Tonga and Samoa. In this region, a distinctive Polynesian culture developed. Within the next few centuries Polynesians reached New Zealand, Easter Island and possibly South America.\n\nPolynesian navigators used a range of tools and methods, including observation of birds, star navigation, and use of waves and swells to detect nearby land. Songs, mythological stories, and star charts were used to help people remember important navigational information. \n\nSailors navigating in the Mediterranean made use of several techniques to determine their location, including staying in sight of land and understanding of the winds and their tendencies. Minoans of Crete are an example of an early Western civilization that used celestial navigation. Their palaces and mountaintop sanctuaries exhibit architectural features that align with the rising sun on the equinoxes, as well as the rising and setting of particular stars. The Minoans made sea voyages to the island of Thera and to Egypt. Both of these trips would have taken more than a day's sail for the Minoans and would have left them traveling by night across open water. Here the sailors would use the locations of particular stars, especially those of the constellation Ursa Major, to orient the ship in the correct direction.\n\nWritten records of navigation using stars, or celestial navigation, go back to Homer's Odyssey where Calypso tells Odysseus to keep the Bear (Ursa Major) on his left hand side and at the same time to observe the position of the Pleiades, the late-setting Boötes and the Orion as he sailed eastward from her island Ogygia traversing the Ocean. The Greek poet Aratus wrote in his \"Phainomena\" in the third century BC detailed positions of the constellations as written by Eudoxos. The positions described do not match the locations of the stars during Aratus' or Eudoxos' time for the Greek mainland, but some argue that they match the sky from Crete during the Bronze Age. This change in the position of the stars is due to the wobble of the Earth on its axis which affects primarily the pole stars. Around 1000 BC the constellation Draco would have been closer to the North Pole than Polaris. The pole stars were used to navigate because they did not disappear below the horizon and could be seen consistently throughout the night.\n\nBy the third century BC the Greeks had begun to use the Little Bear, Ursa Minor, to navigate. In the mid-1st century AD Lucan writes of Pompey who questions a sailor about the use of stars in navigation. The sailor replies with his description of the use of circumpolar stars to navigate by. To navigate along a degree of latitude a sailor would have needed to find a circumpolar star above that degree in the sky. For example, Apollonius would have used β Draconis to navigate as he traveled west from the mouth of the Alpheus River to Syracuse.\n\nThe voyage of the Greek navigator Pytheas of Massalia is a particularly notable example of a very long, early voyage. A competent astronomer and geographer, Pytheas ventured from Greece through the strait of Gibraltar to Western Europe and the British Isles. Pytheas is the first known person to describe the Midnight Sun, polar ice, Germanic tribes and possibly Stonehenge. Pytheas also introduced the idea of distant \"Thule\" to the geographic imagination and his account is the earliest to state that the moon is the cause of the tides.\n\nNearchos's celebrated voyage from India to Susa after Alexander's expedition in India is preserved in Arrian's account, the Indica. Greek navigator Eudoxus of Cyzicus explored the Arabian Sea for Ptolemy VIII, king of the Hellenistic Ptolemaic dynasty in Egypt. According to Poseidonius, later reported in Strabo's \"Geography\", the monsoon wind system of the Indian Ocean was first sailed by Eudoxus of Cyzicus in 118 or 116 BC.\n\nNautical charts and textual descriptions known as sailing directions have been in use in one form or another since the sixth century BC. Nautical charts using stereographic and orthographic projections date back to the second century BC.\n\nIn 1900, the Antikythera mechanism was recovered from Antikythera wreck. This mechanism was built around 1st century BC.\n\nThe Phoenicians and their successors, the Carthaginians, were particularly adept sailors and learned to voyage further and further away from the coast in order to reach destinations faster. One tool that helped them was the sounding weight. This tool was bell shaped, made from stone or lead, with tallow inside attached to a very long rope. When out to sea, sailors could lower the sounding weight in order to determine how deep the waters were, and therefore estimate how far they were from land. Also, the tallow picked up sediments from the bottom which expert sailors could examine to determine exactly where they were. The Carthaginian Hanno the Navigator is known to have sailed through the Strait of Gibraltar c. 500 BC and explored the Atlantic coast of Africa. There is general consensus that the expedition reached at least as far as Senegal. There is a lack of agreement whether the furthest limit of Hanno's explorations was Mount Cameroon or Guinea's 890-metre (2910-foot) Mount Kakulima.\n\nIn the South China Sea and Indian Ocean, a navigator could take advantage of the fairly constant monsoon winds to judge direction. This made long one-way voyages possible twice a year.\n\nThe Arab Empire significantly contributed to navigation, and had trade networks extending from the Atlantic Ocean and Mediterranean Sea in the west to the Indian Ocean and China Sea in the east, Apart from the Nile, Tigris and Euphrates, navigable rivers in the Islamic regions were uncommon, so transport by sea was very important. Islamic geography and navigational sciences made use of a magnetic compass and a rudimentary instrument known as a kamal, used for celestial navigation and for measuring the altitudes and latitudes of the stars. The kamal itself was simple to construct. It was a rectangular piece of either bone or wood which had a string with 9 consecutive knots attached to it. Another instrument available, developed by the Arabs as well, was the quadrant. Also a celestial navigation device, it was originally developed for astronomy and later transitioned to navigation. When combined with detailed maps of the period, sailors were able to sail across oceans rather than skirt along the coast. Muslim sailors were also responsible for the use and development of the lateen sails and large three-masted merchant vessels to the Mediterranean. The origins of the caravel ship, developed and used for long-distance travel by the Portuguese, and later by the rest of Iberians, since the 15th century, also date back to the \"qarib\" used by Andalusian explorers by the 13th century.\n\nThe sea lanes between India and neighboring lands were the usual form of trade for many centuries, and are responsible for the widespread influence of Indian culture to the societies of Southeast Asia. Powerful navies included those of the Maurya, Satavahana, Chola, Vijayanagara, Kalinga, Maratha and Mughal Empire.\n\nVikings used polarization and the Sunstone to allow navigation of their ships by locating the Sun even in a completely overcast sky. This special mineral was talked about in several 13th – 14th-century written sources in Iceland, some centuries after the carbon-dated, early-11th-century Norse settlement of L'Anse aux Meadows in northernmost Newfoundland had been briefly established. \n\nIn China between 1040 and 1117, the magnetic compass was being developed and applied to navigation. This let masters continue sailing a course when the weather limited visibility of the sky. The true mariner's compass using a pivoting needle in a dry box was invented in Europe no later than 1300.\n\nNautical charts called portolan charts began to appear in Italy at the end of the 13th century. However, their use did not seem to spread quickly: there are no reports of the use of a nautical chart on an English vessel until 1489.\n\nThe commercial activities of Portugal in the early 15th century marked an epoch of distinct progress in practical navigation for Europeans. These exploration and trade expeditions sent out by Infante Henrique (later called \"Henry the Navigator\") led first to the discovery of Porto Santo Island (near Madeira) in 1418, rediscovery of the Azores in 1427, the discovery of the Cape Verde Islands in 1447 and Sierra Leone in 1462. Combined with the empirical observations gathered in oceanic seafaring, mapping winds and currents, Portuguese explorers took the lead in the long distance oceanic navigation, opening later, at the beginning of the 16th century, a network of ocean routes covering the Atlantic, the Indian and the western Pacific oceans, from the North Atlantic and South America, to Japan and Southeast Asia.\n\nThe Portuguese discovered the two large volta do mar (meaning literally \"turn of the sea\" but also \"return from the sea\") currents and trade winds of North and of South Atlantic ocean (approximately in the first half and in the late 15th century respectively), that paved the way to reach the New World and return to Europe, as well as to circumnavigate Africa in western open sea, in future voyages of discovery, avoiding contrary winds and currents.\n\nKing John II of Portugal continued this effort, forming a committee on navigation. This group computed tables of the sun's declination and improved the mariner's astrolabe, believing it a good replacement for the cross-staff. These resources improved the ability of a navigator at sea to judge his latitude. Castilian Jew Abraham Zacut, the author of an exceptional treatise on astronomy/astrology in Hebrew, with the title \"Ha-jibbur Ha-gadol\", fled to Portugal in 1492. He published in the printing press of Leiria in 1496, the book \"Biur Luhoth\", or in Latin \"Almanach Perpetuum\", which was soon translated into Latin and Spanish. In this book were the astronomical tables (ephemerides) for the years 1497 to 1500, which may have been instrumental, together with the new astrolabe, made of metal and not wood as before (created and perfected at the beginning of the Portuguese discoveries), to Vasco da Gama and Pedro Álvares Cabral in their voyages to India (also passing through South America) around the open Atlantic ocean (including the Southwest Atlantic) and in the Indian Ocean. Nevertheless, the Portuguese had to hire local pilots in the Indian Ocean for several decades to guide their ships.\n\nIn the 15th and 16th centuries, the Crown of Castile and then the \"unified\" Crown of \"Spain\" was also in the vanguard of European global exploration and colonial expansion. The Spanish Crown opened trade routes across the oceans, specially the transatlantic expeditions of Christopher Columbus on behalf of Castile, from 1492. The Crown of Castile, under Charles I of Spain, also sponsored the first expedition of world circumnavigation in 1521. The enterprise was led by Portuguese navigator Ferdinand Magellan and completed by the Spanish Basque Juan Sebastián Elcano. The trips of exploration led to trade flourishing across the Atlantic Ocean between Spain and America and across the Pacific Ocean between Asia-Pacific and Mexico via the Philippines. Later, Andrés de Urdaneta discovered the northern Pacific`s \"volta do mar\" return voyage.\n\nThe compass, a cross-staff or astrolabe, a method to correct for the altitude of Polaris and rudimentary nautical charts were all the tools available to a navigator at the time of Christopher Columbus. In his notes on Ptolemy's geography, Johannes Werner of Nurenberg wrote in 1514 that the cross-staff was a very ancient instrument, but was only beginning to be used on ships.\n\nPrior to 1577, no method of judging the ship's speed was mentioned that was more advanced than observing the size of the vessel's bow wave or the passage of sea foam or various floating objects. In 1577, a more advanced technique was mentioned: the chip log. In 1578, a patent was registered for a device that would judge the ship's speed by counting the revolutions of a wheel mounted below the ship's waterline.\n\nAccurate time-keeping is necessary for the determination of longitude. As early as 1530, precursors to modern techniques were being explored. However, the most accurate clocks available to these early navigators were water clocks and sand clocks, such as hourglass. Hourglasses were still in use by the Royal Navy of Britain until 1839 for the timing of watches.\n\nContinuous accumulation of navigational data, along with increased exploration and trade, led to increased production of volumes through the Middle Ages. \"Routiers\" were produced in France about 1500; the English referred to them as \"rutters.\" In 1584 Lucas Waghenaer published the \"Spieghel der Zeevaerdt\" (\"The Mariner's Mirror\"), which became the model for such publications for several generations of navigators. They were known as \"Waggoners\" by most sailors.\n\nIn 1537, Pedro Nunes published his \"Tratado da Sphera\". In this book he included two original treatises about questions of navigation. For the first time the subject was approached using mathematical tools. This publication gave rise to a new scientific discipline: \"theoretical or scientific navigation\".\n\nIn 1545, Pedro de Medina published the influential \"Arte de navegar\". The book was translated into French, Italian, Dutch and English.\n\nIn 1569, Gerardus Mercator published for the first time a world map in such a cartographic projection that constant-rhumb trajectories were plotted as straight lines. This Mercator projection would be widely used for nautical charts from the 18th century onward.\n\nIn 1594, John Davis published an 80-page pamphlet called \"The Seaman's Secrets\" which, among other things describes great circle sailing. It's said that the explorer Sebastian Cabot had used great circle methods in a crossing of the North Atlantic in 1495. Davis also gave the world a version of the backstaff, the Davis quadrant, which became one of the dominant instruments from the 17th century until the adoption of the sextant in the 19th century.\n\nIn 1599, Edward Wright published \"Certaine Errors in Navigation\", which for the first time explained the mathematical basis of the Mercator projection, with calculated mathematical tables which made it possible to use in practice. The book made clear why only with this projection would a constant bearing correspond to a straight line on a chart. It also analysed other sources of error, including the risk of parallax errors with some instruments; and faulty estimates of latitude and longitude on contemporary charts.\n\nIn 1599/1600, Edward Wright's World Chart of 1599 was the first map under the Mercator projection drawn by an Englishman for English navigation. The map prominently displays the Queen Elizabeth I Privy Seal; the only one of her realm to carry her private seal. The Molyneux 1592 globe is the only other cartography with her Privy Seal. Both identify \"Nova Albion\", the land Captain Francis Drake claimed for his Queen during his 1577-1580 circumnavigation, above the 40th parallel.\n\nIn 1631, Pierre Vernier described his newly invented quadrant that was accurate to one minute of arc. In theory, this level of accuracy could give a line of position within a nautical mile of the navigator's actual position.\n\nIn 1635, Henry Gellibrand published an account of yearly change in magnetic variation.\n\nIn 1637, using a specially built astronomical sextant with a 5-foot radius, Richard Norwood measured the length of a nautical mile with chains. His definition of 2,040 yards is fairly close to the modern International System of Units (SI) definition of 2,025.372 yards. Norwood is also credited with the discovery of magnetic dip 59 years earlier, in 1576.\n\nIn 1714 the British \"Commissioners for the discovery of longitude at sea\" came into prominence. This group, which existed until 1828, offered grants and rewards for the solution of navigational problems. Between 1737 and 1828, the commissioners disbursed some £101,000. The government of the United Kingdom also offered significant rewards for navigational accomplishments in this era, such as £20,000 for the discovery of the Northwest Passage and £5,000 for the navigator that could sail within a degree of latitude of the North Pole. A widespread manual in the 18th century was \"Navigatio Britannica\" by John Barrow, published in 1750 by March & Page and still being advertised in 1787.\n\nIsaac Newton invented a reflecting quadrant around 1699. He wrote a detailed description of the instrument for Edmond Halley, which was published in 1742. Due to this time lapse, credit for the invention has often been given instead to John Hadley and Thomas Godfrey. The octant eventually replaced earlier cross-staffs and Davis quadrants, and had the immediate effect of making latitude calculations much more accurate.\n\nA highly important breakthrough for the accurate determination of longitude came with the invention of the marine chronometer. The 1714 longitude prize offer for a method of determining longitude at sea, was won by John Harrison, a Yorkshire carpenter. He submitted a project in 1730, and in 1735 completed a clock based on a pair of counter-oscillating weighted beams connected by springs whose motion was not influenced by gravity or the motion of a ship. His first two sea timepieces H1 and H2 (completed in 1741) used this system, but he realised that they had a fundamental sensitivity to centrifugal force, which meant that they could never be accurate enough at sea.\nHarrison solved the precision problems with his much smaller H4 chronometer design in 1761. H4 looked much like a large five-inch (12 cm) diameter pocket watch. In 1761, Harrison submitted H4 for the £20,000 longitude prize. His design used a fast-beating balance wheel controlled by a temperature-compensated spiral spring. These features remained in use until stable electronic oscillators allowed very accurate portable timepieces to be made at affordable cost. In 1767, the Board of Longitude published a description of his work in \"The Principles of Mr. Harrison's time-keeper\".\n\nIn 1757, John Bird invented the first sextant.This replaced the Davis quadrant and the octant as the main instrument for navigation. The sextant was derived from the octant in order to provide for the lunar distance method. With the lunar distance method, mariners could determine their longitude accurately. Once chronometer production was established in the late 18th century, the use of the chronometer for accurate determination of longitude was a viable alternative. Chronometers replaced lunars in wide usage by the late 19th century.\n\nIn 1891 radios, in the form of wireless telegraphs, began to appear on ships at sea.\n\nIn 1899 the \"R.F. Matthews\" was the first ship to use wireless communication to request assistance at sea. Using radio for determining direction was investigated by \"Sir Oliver Lodge, of England; Andre Blondel, of France; De Forest, Pickard; and Stone, of the United States; and Bellini and Tosi, of Italy.\" The Stone Radio & Telegraph Company installed an early prototype radio direction finder on the naval collier \"Lebanon\" in 1906.\n\nBy 1904 time signals were being sent to ships to allow navigators to check their chronometers. The U.S. Navy Hydrographic Office was sending navigational warnings to ships at sea by 1907.\n\nLater developments included the placing of lighthouses and buoys close to shore to act as marine signposts identifying ambiguous features, highlighting hazards and pointing to safe channels for ships approaching some part of a coast after a long sea voyage. In 1912 Nils Gustaf Dalén was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics for his invention of automatic valves designed to be used in combination with gas accumulators in lighthouses\n\n1921 saw the installation of the first radiobeacon.\n\nThe first prototype shipborne radar system was installed on the \"USS Leary\" in April 1937.\n\nOn November 18, 1940 Mr. Alfred L. Loomis made the initial suggestion for an electronic air navigation system which was later developed into LORAN (long range navigation system) by the Radiation Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and on November 1, 1942 the first LORAN System was placed in operation with four stations between the Chesapeake Capes and Nova Scotia.\nIn October 1957, the Soviet Union launched the world's first artificial satellite, \"Sputnik.\" Scientists at Johns Hopkins University's Applied Physics Laboratory took a series of measurements of \"Sputnik\"'s doppler shift yielding the satellite's position and velocity. This team continued to monitor \"Sputnik\" and the next satellites into space, \"Sputnik II\" and \"Explorer I\". In March 1958 the idea of working backwards, using known satellite orbits to determine an unknown position on the Earth's surface began to be explored. This led to the \"TRANSIT\" satellite navigation system. The first \"TRANSIT\" satellite was placed in polar orbit in 1960. The system, consisting of 7 satellites, was made operational in 1962. A navigator using readings from three satellites could expect accuracy of about 80 feet.\n\nOn July 14, 1974 the first prototype Navstar GPS satellite was put into orbit, but its clocks failed shortly after launch. The \"Navigational Technology Satellite 2\", redesigned with cesium clocks, started to go into orbit on June 23, 1977. By 1985, the first 11-satellite GPS Block I constellation was in orbit.\n\nSatellites of the similar Russian GLONASS system began to be put into orbit in 1982, and the system is expected to have a complete 24-satellite constellation in place by 2010. The European Space Agency expects to have its Galileo with 30 satellites in place by 2011/12 as well.\n\nElectronic integrated bridge concepts are driving future navigation system planning. Integrated systems take inputs from various ship sensors, electronically display positioning information, and provide control signals required to maintain a vessel on a preset course. The navigator becomes a system manager, choosing system presets, interpreting system output, and monitoring vessel response.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10749802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10749802", "title": "ISO 3166-2:GD", "text": "ISO 3166-2:GD\n\nISO 3166-2:GD is the entry for Grenada in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Grenada, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 6 parishes and 1 dependency.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Grenada. The second part is two digits:\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "548523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548523", "title": "Indonesian Throughflow", "text": "Indonesian Throughflow\n\nThe Indonesian throughflow (ITF) is an ocean current with importance for global climate since it provides a low-latitude pathway for warm, fresh water to move from the Pacific to the Indian Ocean and this serves as the upper branch of the global heat conveyor belt. Higher ocean surface topography in the western Pacific than in the Indian Ocean drives upper thermocline water from the North Pacific through the western route of the Makassar Strait to either directly exit through the Lombok Strait or flow eastward into the Banda Sea. Weaker flow of saltier and denser South Pacific water passes over the Lifamatola Passage into the Banda Sea, where these water masses are mixed due to tidal effects, Ekman pumping, and heat and fresh water flux at the ocean surface. From the Banda Sea the ITF exits Timor, Ombai, and Lombok passages.\n\nThe location and topography of the channels that make up the ITF are shown in the Figure. Lombok Strait is 300m deep and roughly 35 km wide and the currents vary between 0.286 m/s (0.6 mi/hr) eastward to 0.67 m/s westward and average 0.25 m/s westward. Currents in Ombai vary between 0.12 m/s eastward to 0.16 m/s westward, averaging 0.11 m/s westward and are funneled within the 1250m deep and 35 km wide passage. Timor passage, which is 1890 m deep by 160 km wide, is the widest of the exit pathways and averages only 0.02 m/s. From 2004–2006, 11 moorings were deployed across the entrance and exit regions of the ITF and were positioned to accurately measure each passage’s contribution as part of the International Nusantara Stratification and Transport (INSTANT) program. Flow in through Makassar (11.6 Sv, 1 Sv = 10 m³/s) and Lifamatola (1.1 Sv) sums to 12.7 Sv. Total outflow transport corresponds to 15.0 Sv (varying from 10.7 to 18.7 Sv) and is made up of Lombok (2.6 Sv), Ombai (4.9 Sv) and Timor (7.5 Sv) contributions. Heat Transport of the Indonesian Throughflow is 1.087 PW (1 PW=10 Watt). \n\nCirculation and transport within the Indonesian Seas varies along with large-scale monsoon flow. During June to August, southeasterlies of the southwest monsoon predominate over Indonesia and drive strong Ekman divergence (southwestward flow in the Southern Hemisphere thus increasing ITF to 15 Sv) whereas from December to February, Northwest Monsoon westerlies serve to directly reduce the ITF . During monsoon transitions, strong westerly winds in the eastern Indian Ocean force equatorial downwelling Kelvin waves (eastward moving, eastward flow) that propagate through the Indonesian passages as coastally trapped Kelvin waves and serve to reduce the ITF flow with a minimum in April of 9 Sv. Another way to think about it is that downwelling on the Indian Ocean side increases sea level and so reduces the normal Pacific-to-Indian pressure head reducing the flow. \n\nGlobal-scale, ocean waves such as equatorial/coastal Kelvin and Rossby waves drive interannual variation of the ITF with an amplitude of roughly +/-3 Sv. Western-central Pacific westerly winds from El Nino force westward moving-equatorial Rossby waves and eastward currents that hit eastern New Guinea and propagate around the west coast as coastal Kelvin waves and down through the ITF along the west Australia Shelf coast serving to reduce the ITF. Upwelling (i.e. reduced sea level) associated with Rossby waves on the Pacific side reduces the Pacific-to-Indian pressure gradient and reduces the ITF. Interannual variability of Indian Ocean westerlies act in the same manner as the seasonal equatorial Kelvin waves to reduce the normal westward ITF flow as well.\n\nAn important feature of the Indonesian Throughflow is that because the water in the western equatorial Pacific Ocean has a higher temperature and lower salinity than the water in the Indian Ocean, the Throughflow transports large amounts of relatively warm and fresh water to the Indian Ocean. When the Indonesian Throughflow (through Lombok Strait, Ombai and the Timor Passages) enters the Indian Ocean it is advected towards Africa within the Indian South Equatorial Current. There it eventually exits the Indian Ocean with the Agulhas Current around South Africa into the Atlantic Ocean. So the Indonesian Throughflow transports a significant amount of Pacific Ocean heat into the southwest Indian Ocean, which is approximately away from the Lombok Strait.\n\n"}
{"id": "26769100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26769100", "title": "Irish maritime events during World War II", "text": "Irish maritime events during World War II\n\nBelow is the timeline of maritime events during the Emergency, (as World War II was known in Ireland). This period was referred to as The Long Watch by Irish Mariners. This list is of events which affected the Irish Mercantile Marine, other ships carrying Irish exports or imports, and events near the Irish coast.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55024301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55024301", "title": "Jean Baptiste François Joseph de Warren", "text": "Jean Baptiste François Joseph de Warren\n\nJean Baptiste François Joseph de Warren or John Warren (21 September 1769 – 9 February 1830) was an army captain and later Lieutenant Colonel with Her Majesty's 33rd regiment of foot, East India Company in India, surveyor and amateur astronomer. While working as a surveyor in the Great Trigonometrical Survey he rediscovered what became the Kolar Gold Fields and in later life he documented Indian astronomy and time keeping traditions in his book \"Kala Sankalita\".\n\nWarren was born at Livorno, Italy, the fourth child of Count Henry Hyacinthe de Warren and Christine Walburge de Meuerers. Their ancestors included Guillaume de Warren, first count of Warren and Surrey. He moved to London in 1793 and tried to work as an artist but failed. He then moved to Calcutta on 10 December 1793 and attempted to become an indigo planter but failed. He bought commission as an ensign in the army and fought in Mysore under Arthur Wellesley against Tipu Sultan. After the victory against Tipu, and in view of his \"addiction to mathematical studies\" he was appointed to assist the Mysore Survey under William Lambton. He conducted additional experiments during Lambton's initial baseline trials in Bangalore to examine the effects of refraction on measurements. He also examined the effects of humidity by constructing a hygrometer that made use of the beards of a local grass called Panimooloo \"Heteropogon contortus\". While surveying the region near Malur, Warren heard about gold deposits and examined the old mines in the Kolar region that had been abandoned as being too low in yield. He was a proponent for the use of milestones and he put in 262 markers at his own expense between Srirangapatnam and Naickenchero and between Bangalore and Balamangalam. Warren held the post of Company Astronomer and was a superintendent of the surveying school at Madras. During his term at the surveying school he was charged of embezzling money and was forced to return an excess of 3860 pagodas (100 pagodas per year per student was the norm but Warren was drawing 1200 per year) due to complaints from a student.\n\nWarren was acting director at the Madras Observatory from February 1805 to October 1811 and in this period he established the longitude of Madras, a figure that was used in the trigonometrical survey and for nearly a century. In 1812 he published the results of measurements of the periods of pendulums and compared them with measurements from other parts of the world and came to the conclusion that the departure from predicted values was due to heterogeneity in the geology of the Earth.In 1814 he returned to France with his son Edouard. He was reinstated into the French army with the rank of Lieut-Colonel and was made Chevalier of St Louis. He became a corresponding member of the 'le Bureau des Longitudes'. Leaving his son to study in France, he returned to settle in Pondicherry and work on a book on the methods of timekeeping and calendar making in southern India. The book, \"Kala Sankalita\", begun in 1814 was finally published in 1825. Among the calculations that Warren documented was the computation of lunar eclipses by a Pondicherry-based calendar maker who used shells placed on the ground and coded formulae. In 1824 he was made Chevalier of the Legion of Honour.\n\nWarren died in Pondicherry on 9 February 1830 and a book on his life was written by his son Edouard - \"L'Inde Anglaise en 1843\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43797709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43797709", "title": "List of African film awards", "text": "List of African film awards\n\nA list of African film awards:\n\n"}
{"id": "7264431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7264431", "title": "List of Botswana-related topics", "text": "List of Botswana-related topics\n\nThis is a list of topics related to Botswana. Those interested in the subject can monitor changes to the pages by clicking on \"Related changes\" in the sidebar.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee List of secondary schools in Botswana\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12325330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12325330", "title": "List of ETH Zurich people", "text": "List of ETH Zurich people\n\nThis is a list of people associated with ETH Zurich in Switzerland.\n\nThe names listed below are taken from the official record compiled by the ETH. It includes only graduates of the ETH and professors who have been awarded the Nobel Prize for their achievements at ETH. \n\n\n\n\nOther Nobel Laureates directly affiliated with the ETH include\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22052961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22052961", "title": "List of GNK Dinamo Zagreb seasons", "text": "List of GNK Dinamo Zagreb seasons\n\nThis is a list of all seasons played by GNK Dinamo Zagreb in national and European football, from 1945 (the year the club was officially founded) to the most recent completed season. The club spent its entire existence playing top-flight football (from 1946 to 1991 in the Yugoslav First League, from 1991 onwards in the Prva HNL).\n\nThis list details the club's achievements in all major competitions, and the top scorers for each season (note that only goals scored in league matches are taken into account). Players in bold were also top league scorers that season.\n\nFollowing the club's formation as the municipal multi-sports club FD Dinamo in June 1945 the club's first competitive success was winning the first post-war Zagreb municipal championship held in January and February 1946 and then finishing as runners-up behind Hajduk Split in the SR Croatia regional championship which doubled as a qualifying tournament for the 1946–47 Yugoslav First League (officially called \"First Federal League\", ), the first edition of the post-war national top level. Dinamo soon established themselves as one of the so-called \"Big Four\" of Yugoslav football (along with Hajduk Split, Partizan and Red Star), a quartet of teams who dominated the game in SFR Yugoslavia, by finishing runners-up in 1947, and winning league titles in 1948, 1954 and 1958 and were never relegated from top level until leaving the league in 1991 following Croatia's independence. During the Yugoslav era Dinamo won four league titles and seven Yugoslav Cups. They were only the third Yugoslav side to play in an UEFA-sponsored competition when they appeared in the 1958–59 European Cup (after Partizan in 1955 and Red Star in 1956).\n\nThe club's most successful period was between 1960 and 1969, during which they reached the Yugoslav Cup finals six times (winning four) but failed to clinch a single league title (finishing runners-up five times). The club also had two successful campaigns in the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup during this period, reaching the final in 1963 and 1967 and winning the latter by beating England's Leeds United. This was the only European silverware won by any Yugoslav club until Red Star Belgrade won the 1990–91 European Cup 24 years later. The club's second \"golden age\" came between 1980 and 1986, when Dinamo reached another five cup finals (winning two) and won the 1981–82 league title, their first league win in 24 years.\n\nIn the Yugoslav era three Dinamo players were top league scorers on four occasions: Franjo Wölfl in 1947 and 1948, Dražan Jerković in 1962 (who also went on to become joint top scorer at the 1962 FIFA World Cup that year) and Snješko Cerin in 1982. Cerin went on to become the club's most prolific scorer in the period with a total of 103 league goals for Dinamo between 1976 and 1986. The most successful managers were Milan Antolković who led the club to three cup finals (1960, 1963 and 1963 - winning the first two) and the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup final in 1963; and Miroslav Blažević who led the club to the 1981–82 league win and three cup finals (1982, 1983 and 1986 - winning only the 1983 edition).\n\nFollowing the 1990–91 Yugoslav First League Croatian clubs abandoned the league amid the breakup of Yugoslavia and joined the present-day Croatian football league system as the country declared independence. Dinamo Zagreb were thus founding members of the Prva HNL (1. HNL). Affected by the ongoing war in Croatia the league's inaugural season was shortened and held over the course of only one calendar year from February to June 1992. During the season the club took part in European competitions on account of qualification secured at the end of the 1990–91 Yugoslav season as Dinamo had finished runners-up in the league and qualified for the 1991–92 UEFA Cup. Due to the ongoing war Croatian clubs had to host their European games abroad so Dinamo played their UEFA Cup first round fixture against Trabzonspor in Klagenfurt, Austria. The following 1992–93 season no Croatian club was allowed to enter European competitions as the Croatian Football Federation, the league's governing body, was not yet recognized by UEFA and officially became its affiliate as late as June 1993.\n\nAmid political turmoil in the early 1990s club's officials began claiming direct lineage to pre-WWII Zagreb-based clubs Građanski Zagreb and HAŠK and in order to reflect this Dinamo were renamed \"HAŠK Građanski\" in June 1991. They finished fifth in the inaugural 1. HNL season and reached the Croatian Cup final which they lost to minnows Inker Zaprešić. In February 1993 the club were renamed \"Croatia Zagreb\". They won five league titles and three domestic cups and participated in the 1998–99 and 1999–2000 UEFA Champions League group stages carrying that name before reverting to \"Dinamo Zagreb\" in February 2000.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10842077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10842077", "title": "List of Tokyo Disneyland attractions", "text": "List of Tokyo Disneyland attractions\n\nTokyo Disneyland is a theme park at the Tokyo Disney Resort in Urayasu, Chiba, Japan. Here are the list of attractions below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following lands will open in phases beginning in 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36446401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36446401", "title": "List of brackish bodies of water", "text": "List of brackish bodies of water\n\nBodies of water of brackish nature are found around the world in a wide variety of settings, shapes and sizes. The following is a list of notable bodies of brackish water.\n\n\n\nLochs (Scottish)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52943269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52943269", "title": "List of colonial governors of Cameroon", "text": "List of colonial governors of Cameroon\n\nThis article lists the colonial governors of Cameroon. It encompasses the period when the country was under colonial rule of the German Empire (as Kamerun), occupation of the territory by the Allies during World War I (Kamerun Campaign), as well as the period when it was under the administration of France (as French Cameroons) and the United Kingdom (as British Cameroons) respectively.\n\nFor continuation after independence, \"see: \"List of Presidents of Cameroon\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4781546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4781546", "title": "List of people from São Paulo", "text": "List of people from São Paulo\n\n\"Paulistanos\", as the people who are born in São Paulo are called in Brazil, have made extensive contributions to Brazil's (and the world's) history, culture, music, literature, education, science, and technology — particularly when São Paulo was the federal capital and a great hub of Brazilian growth and innovation in all these areas. Some famous people born in Sampa are:\n\n"}
{"id": "7014030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7014030", "title": "List of people on the postage stamps of French Polynesia", "text": "List of people on the postage stamps of French Polynesia\n\nNo identifiable person on these stamps.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10515764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10515764", "title": "List of titles of Malaf Al Mostakbal series", "text": "List of titles of Malaf Al Mostakbal series\n\nThis a list of titles of Malaf Al Mostakbal, an Egyptian science fiction series of novels by Nabil Farouk. 160 titles were published from 1984 to 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "3687705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3687705", "title": "Lloyd Center for the Environment", "text": "Lloyd Center for the Environment\n\nThe Lloyd Center for the Environment is a non-profit organization that provides educational programs on aquatic environments in southeastern New England in the United States. \n\nThe Lloyd Center’s of estuary and maritime forest in South Dartmouth, Massachusetts, was donated to the Dartmouth Natural Resources Trust in 1978 by Karen Lloyd as a living memorial to her mother, Katharine Nordell Lloyd. Lloyd Center programming began in 1981. Five walking trails offer scenic views of the Slocum River, Buzzards Bay, Demarest Lloyd State Park, Mishaum Point, and Cuttyhunk Island. The Chaypee Woods Trail snakes its way through stone walls that hearken back to farming days when dairy cattle, ducks, and chickens were raised there. Steep steps and slopes mix with the vistas of the salt marsh, oak-hickory forest, freshwater wetlands, kettleholes, moraine, and a Native American midden site.\n\n"}
{"id": "10029312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10029312", "title": "Luigi Hugues", "text": "Luigi Hugues\n\nLuigi Hugues (27 October 1836 – 5 March 1913) was an Italian academic geographer and accomplished amateur musician. He is best known today as a composer and arranger of virtuoso works for the flute, and for his contributions to the teaching and history of geography.\n\nHughes was born in Casale Monferrato, today in the Province of Alessandria, Piedmont. He trained originally as an engineer, and taught in various technical institutes before becoming professor of geography within the Faculty of Letters at the University of Turin in 1897.\n\nLuigi Hughes died in Casale Monferrato at the age of 76. \"Viale Luigi Hugues\", a street in Turin, is named in his honour.\n\nAlthough Hugues’ musical works are recognized for their instrumental virtuosity, they are not always taken entirely seriously. Flautist and teacher Fenwick Smith refers to their “brilliance and vacuity” and writes of the \"Grand Concert Fantasy on Verdi’s Ballo in Maschera\":\n“With a flutist’s knowledge of the instrument, which permits him to conjure more notes per square inch than Verdi ever dreamed of, and with the Italians’ sure sense of drama, Hugues has concocted a paragon among potboilers.” \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2584198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2584198", "title": "Mammoth steppe", "text": "Mammoth steppe\n\nDuring the Last Glacial Maximum, the mammoth steppe was the Earth’s most extensive biome. It spanned from Spain eastwards across Eurasia to Canada and from the arctic islands southwards to China. It had a cold, dry climate, the vegetation was dominated by palatable high-productivity grasses, herbs and willow shrubs, and the animal biomass was dominated by the bison, horse, and the woolly mammoth. This ecosystem covered wide areas of the northern part of the globe, thrived for approximately 100,000 years without major changes, and then suddenly became all but extinct about 12,000 years ago.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, Alfred Nehring (1890) and Jan Czerski (Iwan Dementjewitsch Chersky, 1891) proposed that during the last glacial period a major part of northern Europe had been populated by large herbivores and that a steppe climate had prevailed there. In 1982, the scientist R. Dale Guthrie coined the term \"mammoth steppe\" for this paleoregion.\n\nThe last glacial period, commonly referred to as the 'Ice Age', spanned from 126,000 YBP–11,700 YBP and was the most recent glacial period within the current ice age which occurred during the last years of the Pleistocene era. It reached its peak during the last glacial maximum, when ice sheets commenced advancing from 33,000 years BP and reached their maximum positions 26,500 years BP. Deglaciation commenced in the Northern Hemisphere approximately 19,000 years BP, and in Antarctica approximately 14,500 years BP, which is consistent with evidence that it was the primary source for an abrupt rise in the sea level at that time.\n\nDuring the peak of the last glacial maximum, a vast mammoth steppe stretched from Spain across Eurasia and over the Bering land bridge into Alaska and the Yukon where it was stopped by the Wisconsin glaciation. This land bridge existed because more of the planet's water was locked up in ice than now and therefore the sea levels were lower. When the sea levels began to rise this bridge was inundated around 11,000 years BP.\n\nDuring glacial periods, there is clear evidence for intense aridity due to water being held in glaciers and their associated effects on climate. The mammoth steppe was like a huge 'inner court' that was surrounded on all sides by moisture-blocking features: massive continental glaciers, high mountains, and frozen seas. These kept rainfall low and created more days with clear skies than are seen today, which increased evaporation in the summer leading to aridity, and radiation of warmth from the ground into the black night sky in the winter leading to cold. This is thought to have been caused by seven factors:\n\n\nAnimal biomass and plant productivity of the mammoth steppe were similar to today's African savannah. There is no comparison to it today.\n\nThe paleo-environment changed across time, a proposal that is supported from mammoth dung samples found in northern Yakutia. During Pleniglacial interstadials, alder, birch, and pine trees survived in northern Siberia, however during the Last Glacial Maximum only a treeless steppe vegetation existed. At the onset of the Late Glacial Interstadial (15,000–11,000 BP), global warming resulted in shrub and dwarf birch in northeastern Siberia, which was then colonized by open woodland with birch and spruce during the Younger Dryas (12,900–11,700 YBP). By the Holocene (10,000 YBP), patches of closed larch and pine forests developed. Past researchers had once assumed that the mammoth steppe was very unproductive because they had assumed that its soils had a very low carbon content; however, these soils (yedoma) were preserved in the permafrost of Siberia and Alaska and are the largest reservoir of organic carbon known. It was a highly productive environment. The vegetation was dominated by palatable high-productivity grasses, herbs and willow shrubs.\n\nThe mammoth steppe was dominated in biomass by bison, horse, and the woolly mammoth, and was the center for the evolution of the Pleistocene woolly fauna. On Wrangel Island, the remains of woolly mammoth, woolly rhinoceros, horse, bison and musk ox have been found. Reindeer and small animal remains do not preserve, but reindeer excrement has been found in sediment. In the most arid regions of the mammoth steppe that were to the south of Central Siberia and Mongolia, woolly rhinoceros were common but woolly mammoths were rare. Reindeer live in the far north of Mongolia today and historically their southern boundary passed through Germany and along the steppes of eastern Europe, indicating they once covered much of the mammoth steppe. Mammoths survived on the Taimyr Peninsula until the Holocene. A small population of mammoth survived on St. Paul Island, Alaska, up until 3750 BC, and the small mammoths of Wrangel Island survived until 1650 BC. Bison in Alaska and the Yukon, and horses and muskox in northern Siberia, have survived the loss of the mammoth steppe. One study has proposed that a change of suitable climate caused a significant drop in the mammoth population size, which made them vulnerable to hunting from expanding human populations. The coincidence of both of these impacts in the Holocene most likely set the place and time for the extinction of the woolly mammoth.\n\nThe mammoth steppe had a cold, dry climate. During the past interglacial warmings, forests of trees and shrubs expanded northwards into the mammoth steppe, when northern Siberia, Alaska and the Yukon (Beringia) would have formed a mammoth steppe refugium. When the planet grew colder again, the mammoth steppe expanded. This ecosystem covered wide areas of the northern part of the globe, thrived for approximately 100,000 years without major changes, and then suddenly became extinct about 12,000 years ago.\n\nThere are two theories about the decline of the mammoth steppe.\n\nThe Climatic Hypothesis assumes that the vast mammoth ecosystem could have only existed within a certain range of climatic parameters. At the beginning of the Holocene 10,000 years ago, mossy forests, tundra, lakes and wetlands displaced mammoth steppe. It has been assumed that in contrast to other previous interglacials the cold dry climate switched to a warmer wetter climate that, in turn, caused the disappearance of the grasslands and their dependent megafauna.\n\nThe extinct steppe bison (\"Bison priscus\") survived across the northern region of central eastern Siberia until 8000 years ago. A study of the frozen mummy of a steppe bison found in northern Yakutia, Russia indicated that it was a pasture grazer in a habitat that was becoming dominated by shrub and tundra vegetation. Higher temperature and rainfall led to a decrease in its previous habitat during the early Holocene, and this led to population fragmentation followed by extinction.\n\nIn 2017 a study looked at the environmental conditions across Europe, Siberia and the Americas from 25,000–10,000 YBP. The study found that prolonged warming events leading to deglaciation and maximum rainfall occurred just prior to the transformation of the rangelands that supported megaherbivores into widespread wetlands that supported herbivore-resistant plants. The study proposes that moisture-driven environmental change led to the megafaunal extinctions, and that Africa's trans-equatorial position allowed rangeland to continue to exist between the deserts and the central forests; therefore fewer megafauna species became extinct there.\n\nThe Ecosystem Hypothesis assumes that the vast mammoth ecosystem extended over a range of many regional climates and was not affected by climate fluctuations. Its highly productive grasslands were maintained by animals trampling any mosses and shrubs, and actively transpiring grasses and herbs dominated. At the beginning of the Holocene the rise in precipitation was accompanied by increased temperature, and so its climatic aridity did not change substantially. As a result of human hunting, the decreasing density of the animals was not enough to maintain the grasslands, leading to an increase in forests, shrubs and mosses with further animal reduction due to loss of feed. The mammoth continued to exist on isolated Wrangel Island until a few thousand years ago, and some of the other megafauna from that time still exist today, which indicates that something other than climate change was responsible for megafaunal extinctions.\n\nRemains of mammoth that had been hunted by humans 45,000 YBP have been found at Yenisei Bay in the central Siberian Arctic. Two other sites in the Maksunuokha River valley to the south of the Shirokostan Peninsula, northeast Siberia, dated between 14,900 and 13,600 years ago showed the remains of mammoth hunting and the production of micro-blades similar to those found in northwest North America, suggesting a cultural connection.\n\nDuring the Holocene, the arid-adapted species became extinct or were reduced to minor habitats. Cold and dry conditions similar to the last glacial period are found today in the eastern Altai-Sayan mountains of Central Eurasia, with no significant changes occurring between the cold phase of the Pleistocene and the Holocene. Recent paleo-biome reconstruction and pollen analysis suggest that some present-day Altai-Sayan areas could be considered the closest analogy to the mammoth steppe environment. The environment of this region is considered to have been stable for the past 40,000 years. The Eastern part of the Altai-Sayan region forms a Last Glacial refugium. In both the Last Glacial and modern times, the eastern Altai-Sayan region has supported large herbivore and predator species adapted to the steppe, desert and alpine biomes where these biomes have not been separated by forest belts. None of the surviving Pleistocene mammals live in temperate forest, taiga, or tundra biomes. The areas of Ukok-Sailiugem in the southern Altai Republic, and Khar Us Nuur and Uvs Nuur (Ubsunur Hollow) in western Mongolia, have supported reindeer and saiga antelope since the glacial period.\n\nThe paleo-environment changed across time. Below is a gallery of mammoth steppe plants, the location where they have been identified as widespread, the time period and supporting citations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1263281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1263281", "title": "Market garden", "text": "Market garden\n\nA market garden is the relatively small-scale production of fruits, vegetables and flowers as cash crops, frequently sold directly to consumers and restaurants. The diversity of crops grown on a small area of land, typically, from under one acre (0.4 ha) to a few acres, or sometimes in greenhouses distinguishes it from other types of farming. Such a farm on a larger scale is sometimes called a truck farm.\n\nA market garden is a business that provides a wide range and steady supply of fresh produce through the local growing season. Unlike large, industrial farms, which practice monoculture and mechanization, many different crops and varieties are grown and more manual labor and gardening techniques are used. The small output requires selling through such local fresh produce outlets as on-farm stands, farmers' markets, community-supported agriculture subscriptions, restaurants and independent produce stores. Market gardening and orchard farming are closely related to horticulture, which concerns the growing of fruits and vegetables.\n\nTraditionally, \"market garden\" was used to contrast farms devoted to raising vegetables and berries, a specialized type of farming, with the larger branches of grain, dairy, and orchard fruit farming; agricultural historians continue to thus use the term. Such operations were not necessarily small-scale. Indeed, many were very large, commercial farms that were called \"gardens\" not because of size, but because English-speaking farmers traditionally referred to their vegetable plots as \"gardens\": in English whether in common parlance or in anthropological or historical scholarship, husbandry done by the hoe is customarily called \"gardening\" and husbandry done by the plough as \"farming\" regardless of the scale of either. A \"market garden\" was simply a vegetable plot, the produce of which the farmer used to sell as opposed to use to feed his or her family. Market gardens are necessarily close to the markets, i.e. cities, that they serve.\n\nThe word 'truck' in Truck farms does not refer to the transportation truck, which is derived from Latin for wheel, but rather from the old north French word \"troquer\", which means \"barter\" or \"exchange\". The use for vegetables raised for market can be traced back to 1784 and truck farms to 1866.\n\nSelling to the wholesale market usually earns 10–20% of the retail price, but direct-to-consumer selling earns 100%. Although highly variable, a conventional farm may return a few hundred to a few thousand dollars (US) per acre ($0.03/m² to $0.30/m²) but an efficient market garden can earn in the $10,000–15,000 per acre ($3/m² to $5/m²) range, or even higher. However, the size of a market garden has a practical upper bound based on this model, but with conventional farming can farm vast areas because access to a direct market is not a requirement.\n\nLarger market gardens often sell to such local food outlets as supermarkets, food cooperatives, community-supported agriculture programs, farmers' markets, fresh food wholesalers, and any other higher-volume channels that benefit from buying a range of vegetables from a single supplier, their freshness allowing for a premium over the revenue from the supermarkets and frequently other local suppliers. A larger market garden can by mixed crop production maintain a sales alternative to the wholesale commodity-style channels often used by farms that specialize in high volumes of a limited number of crops.\n\nRelying on cities for markets, however, can have drawbacks. For example, in England, south Sussex was famous for growing tomatoes for the London market that were delivered by train. The arrival of railways in the 19th century at first stimulated growth of market gardens in certain areas by providing quick access to the city, but it eventually allowed commuting residents to move there and turn many market garden areas into suburbs. Urban sprawl still eats up farmland in urban regions. Buying the rights to develop farmland from the farmers solved this problem in Suffolk County, New York.\n\nIn some more affluent countries, including Australia and the United States, market gardening is rated as a high social utility occupation. It is typically taken up by recent immigrant groups for one or two generations, until they can accumulate capital, language and trade skills. The succession of dominant market garden groups in Australia, for example, was – from the early 19th century Anglo-Celtic, people from German-speaking countries, Chinese [after the peak of the gold rushes in mid-late 19th century], then southern European migrants from Italy, Malta and Yugoslavia [before it disintegrated], then southeast Asian migrant and refugee communities following the Vietnam War, such as the Vietnamese and Cambodians.\n\nInvolvement in a market garden lets immigrant groups who otherwise have few marketable skills apart from their labour, become actively involved in the market economy. Benefits are that it does not rely on education or language, it adapts well to providing work for extended family groups, and in large market growing regions even wider community support networks. Sharing of knowledge and experience within communities reduces risks, and supports a network of other trades such as carriers, market agents, and heavy machinery contractors, and contract farm labour. Market-gardening land is typically relatively cheap and allows immigrants to purchase land, often with an accompanying residence, far more readily than in urban settings. However, like all agriculture it risks crop failure, market collapse and competition from industrialised broad-acre farming and 'fresh-frozen' imported produce. Other risks are from hazards such as pesticide use, especially where the market gardeners are not trained in their use or able to read product information. Another consequence is marginalisation of the succeeding generation where they are relied upon as the fittest and strongest to succeed in continuing the farm rather than pursue other ambitions and opportunities.\n\nMarket gardening has in recent decades become an alternative business and lifestyle choice for individuals who wish to \"return to the land\", because the business model and niche allow a smaller start-up investment than conventional commercial farming, and generally offers a viable market (in microeconomics basic or staple foods are considered as necessities and have highly inelastic demand curves meaning that consumers will buy them in relatively constant quantities even if prices or incomes vary), especially with the recent popularity of organic and local food. It is in some instances considered hobby farming, although market gardening is a recognized type of farming with a distinct business model that can be significantly profitable and sustainable. There is a spectrum with overlap from with the efforts of amateur gardeners who sometimes sell from home or at markets, as an extension of their pastime, to fully commercial market gardening as the main or sole income stream. The latter requires the most discipline and business sense. Successful practitioners who have written books about it include Eliot Coleman and Jean-Martin Fortier.\n\nAn example of a market garden operation in North America might involve one farmer working full-time on two acres (8,000 m²). Most work is done with hand and light power tools, and perhaps a small tractor. Some 20 different crops are planted throughout the season. Hardier plants, like peas, spinach, radish, carrots and lettuce are seeded first, in earlier Spring, followed by main season crops, like tomatoes, potatoes, corn, beans, cucumber, onions, and summer squash. A further planting timed for harvest in the cooler Fall conditions might include more spinach and carrots, winter squash, cabbage, and rutabaga. Harvesting is done at least weekly, by hand, sometimes with part-time help, and produce is sorted, washed and sold fresh at the local farmers' market, and from an on-farm stand. A pick-up truck is used for short distance transport of crops and other farm materials. The workflow is a steady cycle of planting and harvesting right through the growing season, and usually comes to an end in the cold winter months.\n\nA somewhat larger market garden operation, ranging from 10 to 100 acres (40,000 to 400,000 m²), may be referred to as intensive mixed vegetable production, although the essential business and farming tasks are the same. Such operations are often run by a full-time farmer or farm family, and a few full-time employees. The tractor is relied upon for many tasks, and manual labor requirements, particularly for setting transplants and harvesting, are often significant, with crews of 10, 20 or more people employed seasonally. This has led in the U.S. to groups of \"transient\" or \"migrant\" workers who follow the harvest seasons to different farms across the country. In cooler climates, greenhouses are generally used to produce transplants, and sometimes greenhouse production is extended through winter or with hydroponics. Harvest and post-harvest handling are more sophisticated at the larger scale, with some mechanized harvest and processing equipment, walk-in coolers, and refrigerated delivery vehicles.\n\n"}
{"id": "5936371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5936371", "title": "Midžor", "text": "Midžor\n\nMidžor (, ) or Midzhur () is a peak in the Balkan Mountains, situated on the border between Serbia and Bulgaria. At , it is the highest peak of the Western Balkan Mountains, as well as the highest of Serbia outside Kosovo. Midžor is the 12th highest peak in the Balkan Mountains.\n\nIn Bulgaria, the peak is called Midzhur.\n\nSince the early 1990s, it has been accessible to tourists from both sides; previously, access was forbidden due to the peak being in the border area. Due to those restrictions, the nature around the peak has been preserved untouched. On the Bulgarian side, the peak is reachable from the villages of Chuprene and Gorni Lom in Vidin Province.\n\nFrom Chuprene there are two possibilities for climbing. There is a 17 km dirt road following the river Chprenska to the Gorski Ray refuge (1,450 m) or a 9 km foot track following the river Manastirska.\n\nFrom the refuge there is a marked track which passes through the Chuprene biosphere reserve and leads to the main summit on a saddle between the peaks Replyanska Tsarkva (1,969 m) and Ostra Chuka (1967 m). To the south east through the peaks Ostra Chuka and Oba (2,033 m) the track reaches a saddle from where the Lom River and the Timok flow out at border stone 336. From there the peak can be climbed from the north-western slope.\n\nAt 7 km from the village of Gorni Lom is located the Gorni Lom refuge (840 m). There is also another refuge upstream called Mudzhur. There are steep tracks from there leading to the saddle between Oba and the peak at border stone 336 from where the both tracks from the two villages merge.\n\nThe source of the Lom River is at the foot of the peak. A cascade of small hydroelectric power plants is in operation on the river near the peak and four more are under construction. Chuprene biosphere reserve which is under the protection of UNESCO is situated to the west of the peak. It is one of the last sanctuaries in Bulgaria where the Capercaillie nests.\n\nA special permission from a border police office (such as the ones in Sofia, Dragoman, Chiprovtsi, etc.) is required in order to ascend to the peak.\n\nIn Serbia the peak is known as Midžor.\n\nThe extreme peak of the western mountain is north of the village of Topli Dol, located in the centre of Serbian Stara Planina, between Tri Čuke (1936 m) on the SE side and Babin Zub (1758 m) on the SW side. The massif of the Midžor peak is substantial. Its western, eastern, and southern slopes are grassy and not so steep, while its northern side is rocky and very steep. This side is also the most attractive and very popular among rock climbers.\n\nIt is the highest peak in Serbia outside of Kosovo, and the 24th highest in the whole of Serbia if Kosovo is included.\n\nThere is a hotel called \"Babin Zub\" on the slopes. There are no fees or permits needed to enter the Serbian Stara Planina.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3218881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3218881", "title": "Natural heritage", "text": "Natural heritage\n\nNatural heritage refers to the sum total of the elements of biodiversity, including flora and fauna ,\necosystems and geological structures.\n\nHeritage is that which is \"inherited\" from past generations, maintained in the present, and bestowed to future generations. The term \"natural heritage\", derived from \"natural inheritance\", pre-dates the term \"biodiversity.\" It is a less scientific term and more easily comprehended in some ways by the wider audience interested in conservation. \n\nThe term was used in this context in the United States when Jimmy Carter set up the Georgia Heritage Trust while he was governor of Georgia; Carter's trust dealt with both natural and cultural heritage. It would appear that Carter picked the term up from Lyndon Johnson, who used it in a 1966 Message to Congress. (He may have gotten the term from his wife Lady Bird Johnson who was personally interested in conservation.) President Johnson signed the Wilderness Act of 1964. \n\nThe term \"Natural Heritage\" was picked up by the Science Division of The Nature Conservancy (TNC) when, under Robert E. Jenkins, Jr., it launched in 1974 what ultimately became the network of state natural heritage programs -- one in each state, all using the same methodology and all supported permanently by state governments because they scientifically document conservation priorities and facilitate science-based environmental reviews. When this network was extended outside the United States, the term \"Conservation Data Center (or Centre)\" was suggested by Guillermo Mann and came to be preferred for programs outside the US. Despite the name difference, these programs, too, use the same core methodology as the 50 state natural heritage programs. In 1994 The network of natural heritage programs formed a membership association to work together on projects of common interest: the Association for Biodiversity Information (ABI). In 1999, Through an agreement with The Nature Conservancy, ABI expanded and assumed responsibility for the scientific databases, information, and tools developed by TNC in support of the network of natural heritage programs. In 2001, ABI changed its name to NatureServe. NatureServe continues to serve as the hub of the NatureServe Network, a collaboration of 86 governmental and non-governmental programs including natural heritage programs and conservation data centers located in the United States, Canada, and Latin America.\n\nAn important site of natural heritage or cultural heritage can be listed as a World Heritage Site by the World Heritage Committee of UNESCO. The UNESCO programme, catalogues, names, and conserves sites of outstanding cultural or natural importance to the common heritage of humanity. As of March 2012, there are 936 World Heritage Sites: 725 cultural, 183 natural, and 28 mixed properties, in 153 countries.\n\nThe 1972 UNESCO World Heritage Convention established that biological resources, such as plants, were the common heritage of mankind or as was expressed in the preamble: \"need to be preserved as part of the world heritage of mankind as a whole.\". These rules probably inspired the creation of great public banks of genetic resources, located outside the source-countries.\n\nNew global agreements (e.g., the Convention on Biological Diversity), now give sovereign national rights over biological resources (not property). The idea of static conservation of biodiversity is disappearing and being replaced by the idea of dynamic conservation, through the notion of resource and innovation.\n\nThe new agreements commit countries to conserve biodiversity, develop resources for sustainability and share the benefits resulting from their use. Under new rules, it is expected that bioprospecting or collection of natural products has to be allowed by the biodiversity-rich country, in exchange for a share of the benefits.\n\nIn 2005, the World Heritage Marine Programme was established to protect marine areas with Outstanding Universal Values.\n"}
{"id": "78214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78214", "title": "Permaculture", "text": "Permaculture\n\nPermaculture is a set of design principles centered around whole systems thinking simulating or directly utilizing the patterns and resilient features observed in natural ecosystems. It uses these principles in a growing number of fields from regenerative agriculture, rewilding to community and organizational design and development.\n\nWith its system of applied education, research and citizen- led design permaculture has grown a popular web of global networks and developed into a global social movement.\n\nThe term permaculture was developed and coined by David Holmgren, then a graduate student at the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education's Department of Environmental Design, and Bill Mollison, senior lecturer in Environmental Psychology at University of Tasmania, in 1978. The word \"permaculture\" originally referred to \"permanent agriculture\", but was expanded to stand also for \"permanent culture\", as it was understood that social aspects were integral to a truly sustainable system as inspired by Masanobu Fukuoka’s natural farming philosophy.\n\nIt has many branches that include, but are not limited to, ecological design, ecological engineering, regenerative design, environmental design, and construction. Permaculture also includes integrated water resources management that develops sustainable architecture, and regenerative and self-maintained habitat and agricultural systems modelled from natural ecosystems.\n\nMollison has said: \"Permaculture is a philosophy of working with, rather than against nature; of protracted and thoughtful observation rather than protracted and thoughtless labor; and of looking at plants and animals in all their functions, rather than treating any area as a single product system.\"\n\nThe 12 principles of permaculture most commonly referred to are first described by David Holmgren in his book \"Permaculture: Principles and Pathways Beyond Sustainability\" (2002). They include: Observe and Interact, Catch and Store Energy, Obtain a Yield, Apply Self Regulation and Accept Feedback, Use and Value Renewable Resources and Services, Produce No Waste, Design From Patterns to Details, Integrate Rather Than Segregate, Use Small and Slow Solutions, Use and Value Diversity, Use Edges and Value the Marginal, and Creatively Use and Respond to Change.\n\nSeveral individuals revolutionized the branch of permaculture. In 1929, Joseph Russell Smith added an antecedent term as the subtitle for \"Tree Crops: A Permanent Agriculture\", a book which sums up his long experience experimenting with fruits and nuts as crops for human food and animal feed. Smith saw the world as an inter-related whole and suggested mixed systems of trees and crops underneath. This book inspired many individuals intent on making agriculture more sustainable, such as Toyohiko Kagawa who pioneered forest farming in Japan in the 1930s.\n\nIn Australian P.A. Yeomans' 1964 book \"Water for Every Farm\", he supports the definition of permanent agriculture, as one that can be sustained indefinitely. Yeomans introduced both an observation-based approach to land use in Australia in the 1940s and the Keyline Design as a way of managing the supply and distribution of water in the 1950s.\n\nHolmgren noted Stewart Brand’s works as an early influence to permaculture. Other early influences include Ruth Stout and Esther Deans, who pioneered no-dig gardening, and Masanobu Fukuoka who, in the late 1930s in Japan, began advocating no-till orchards and gardens and natural farming.\nIn the late 1960s, Bill Mollison and David Holmgren started developing ideas about stable agricultural systems on the southern Australian island state of Tasmania. Dangers of the rapidly growing use of industrial-agricultural methods sparked these ideas. In their view, these methods were highly dependent on non-renewable resources, and were additionally poisoning land and water, reducing biodiversity, and removing billions of tons of topsoil from previously fertile landscapes. They responded with a design approach called \"permaculture.\" This term was first made public with their publication of their 1978 book \"Permaculture One\".\n\nAmong some of the more recognizable names who received their original training within Mollison's PDC system would include Geoff Lawton and Toby Hemenway, each of whom have more than 25 years experience teaching and promoting permaculture as a sustainable way of growing food. Simon J Fjell was a Founding Director of the Permaculture Institute in late 1979 and a teacher of the first Permaculture Design Course, having first met Mollison in 1976. He has since worked internationally and is currently listing a major social enterprise on NASDAQ.\n\nBy the early 1980s, the concept had broadened from agricultural systems design towards sustainable human habitats. After \"Permaculture One\", Mollison further refined and developed the ideas by designing hundreds of permaculture sites and writing more detailed books, such as \"Permaculture: A Designers Manual\". Mollison lectured in over 80 countries and taught his two-week Permaculture Design Course (PDC) to hundreds of students. Mollison \"encouraged graduates to become teachers themselves and set up their own institutes and demonstration sites. This multiplier effect was critical to permaculture’s rapid expansion.\"\n\nThe permaculture movement also spread throughout Asia and Central America, with Hong Kong-based Asian Institute of Sustainable Architecture (AISA), Rony Lec leading the foundation of the Mesoamerican Permaculture Institute (IMAP) in Guatemala and Juan Rojas co-founding the Permaculture Institute of El Salvador.\n\nThe three core tenets of permaculture are:\n\nPermaculture design emphasizes patterns of landscape, function, and species assemblies. It determines where these elements should be placed so they can provide maximum benefit to the local environment. Permaculture maximizes useful connections between components and synergy of the final design. The focus of permaculture, therefore, is not on each separate element, but rather on the relationships created among elements by the way they are placed together; the whole becomes greater than the sum of its parts. Permaculture design therefore seeks to minimize waste, human labor, and energy input by building systems, and maximizes benefits between design elements to achieve a high level of synergy. Permaculture designs evolve over time by taking into account these relationships and elements and can evolve into extremely complex systems that produce a high density of food and materials with minimal input.\n\nThe design principles, which are the conceptual foundation of permaculture, were derived from the science of systems ecology and study of pre-industrial examples of sustainable land use. Permaculture draws from several disciplines including organic farming, agroforestry, integrated farming, sustainable development, and applied ecology. Permaculture has been applied most commonly to the design of housing and landscaping, integrating techniques such as agroforestry, natural building, and rainwater harvesting within the context of permaculture design principles and theory. \n\nTwelve Permaculture design principles articulated by David Holmgren in his \"Permaculture: Principles and Pathways Beyond Sustainability\":\n\nLayers are one of the tools used to design functional ecosystems that are both sustainable and of direct benefit to humans. A mature ecosystem has a huge number of relationships between its component parts: trees, understory, ground cover, soil, fungi, insects, and animals. Because plants grow to different heights, a diverse community of life is able to grow in a relatively small space, as the vegetation occupies different layers. There are generally seven recognized layers in a food forest, although some practitioners also include fungi as an eighth layer.\n\nA guild is a group of species where each provides a unique set of diverse functions that work in conjunction or harmony. There are many forms of guilds, including guilds of plants with similar functions that could interchange within an ecosystem, but the most common perception is that of a mutual support guild. Mutual support guilds are groups of plants, animals, insects, etc. that work well together. Plants may be grown for food production, draw nutrients from deep in the soil through tap roots, are nitrogen-fixing legumes, attract beneficial insects, and repel harmful insects. When grouped together in a mutually beneficial arrangement, these plants form a guild. See Dave Jacke's work on edible forest gardens for more information on other guilds, specifically resource-partitioning and community-function guilds.\n\nThe edge effect in ecology is the effect of the juxtaposition, or placing contrasting environments on an ecosystem. Permaculturists argue that where vastly differing systems meet, there is an intense area of productivity and useful connections. An example of this is the coast; where the land and the sea meet, there is a particularly rich area that meets a disproportionate percentage of human and animal needs. This idea is played out in permacultural designs by using spirals in herb gardens, or creating ponds that have wavy undulating shorelines rather than a simple circle or oval (thereby increasing the amount of edge for a given area).\n\nZones intelligently organize design elements in a human environment based on the frequency of human use and plant or animal needs. Frequently manipulated or harvested elements of the design are located close to the house in zones 1 and 2. Manipulated elements located further away are used less frequently. Zones are numbered from 0 to 5 based on positioning.\n\nPermaculture uses observation of nature to create regenerative systems, and the place where this has been most visible has been on the landscape. There has been a growing awareness though that firstly, there is the need to pay more attention to the peoplecare ethic, as it is often the dynamics of people that can interfere with projects, and secondly that the principles of permaculture can be used as effectively to create vibrant, healthy and productive people and communities as they have been in landscapes.\n\nDomesticated animals are often incorporated into site design, ensuring the efficiency and productivity of the system.Animals, domestic or wild are a critical component of any wild or designed sustainable ecosystem. Research indicates that without the animal’s participation and contribution, ecological integrity is diminished or impossible. Some of the activities that contribute to the system include: foraging to cycle nutrients, clear fallen fruit, weed maintenance, spreading seeds, and pest maintenance. The nutrients are cycled by animals, transformed from their less digestible form (such as grass or twigs) into more nutrient-dense manure.\n\nSeveral animals can be incorporated into a permaculture system, including cows, goats, chickens, geese, turkey, rabbits, and worms. A more specific explanation of how the animals can be used is seen in the chicken design. Chickens can be used to scratch over the soil, thus breaking down the top soil and using the fecal matter as manure creating a sustainable system. However, in the domestication of these animals, the complexity and elegance lie in an effectiveness and efficiency of the design, including factors like timing and habits to specific areas of a farm. For example, animals require daily attention in a way that is much more demanding than plants.\n\nAgroforestry is an integrated approach of permaculture, which uses the interactive benefits from combining trees and shrubs with crops or livestock. It combines agricultural and forestry technologies to create more diverse, productive, profitable, healthy and sustainable land-use systems. In agroforestry systems, trees or shrubs are intentionally used within agricultural systems, or non-timber forest products are cultured in forest settings.\n\nForest gardening is a term permaculturalists use to describe systems designed to mimic natural forests. Forest gardens, like other permaculture designs, incorporate processes and relationships that the designers understand to be valuable in natural ecosystems. The terms forest garden and food forest are used interchangeably in the permaculture literature. Numerous permaculturists are proponents of forest gardens, such as Graham Bell, Patrick Whitefield, Dave Jacke, Eric Toensmeier and Geoff Lawton. Bell started building his forest garden in 1991 and wrote the book \"The Permaculture Garden\" in 1995, Whitefield wrote the book \"How to Make a Forest Garden\" in 2002, Jacke and Toensmeier co-authored the two volume book set \"Edible Forest Gardening\" in 2005, and Lawton presented the film \"Establishing a Food Forest\" in 2008.\n\nTree Gardens, such as Kandyan tree gardens, in South and Southeast Asia, are often hundreds of years old. It is not self-evident whether these tree gardens derived initially from experiences of cultivation and forestry, as is the case in agroforestry, or whether they derived from an understanding of forest ecosystems, as is the case for permaculture systems. Many studies of these systems, especially those that predate the term permaculture, consider these systems to be forms of agroforestry. Permaculturalists may obscure the distinction of permaculture and agroforestry when they include existing and ancient systems of polycropping as examples of food forests.\n\nFood forests and agroforestry are parallel approaches that sometimes lead to similar designs.\n\nHügelkultur is the practice of burying large volumes of wood to increase soil water retention. The porous structure of wood acts as a sponge when decomposing underground. During the rainy season, masses of buried wood can absorb enough water to sustain crops through the dry season. This technique has been used by permaculturalists Sepp Holzer, Toby Hemenway, Paul Wheaton, and Masanobu Fukuoka.\n\nA natural building involves a range of building systems and materials that place major emphasis on sustainability. Ways of achieving sustainability through natural building focus on durability and the use of minimally processed, plentiful or renewable resources, as well as those that, while recycled or salvaged, produce healthy living environments and maintain indoor air quality.\n\nThe basis of natural building is the need to lessen the environmental impact of buildings and other supporting systems, without sacrificing comfort, health, or aesthetics. Natural building primarily utilizes abundantly available natural materials (e.g., clay, rock, sand, straw, wood, reeds), and draws heavily on traditional architectural strategies from various climates across the world. In addition to relying on natural building materials, the emphasis on the architectural design is heightened. The orientation of a building, the utilization of local climate and site conditions, the emphasis on natural ventilation through design, fundamentally lessen operational costs and positively impact the environment. Building compactly and minimizing the ecological footprint is common, as are on-site handling of energy acquisition, on-site water capture, alternate sewage treatment, and water reuse. Most materials are sourced regionally, locally, or even on-site. Straw bales, and various earthen masonry techniques such as adobe bricks, cob (or monolithic adobe), rammed earth and clay-straw infill are common choices for wall material. Roofing coverings often used include sod or \"living\" roofs, thatch, and wooden shakes or shingles. Rubble trench foundations are popular, as they do not require concrete; likewise, dry-stacked or lime mortared stem walls are common. Natural builders also regularly combine different wall systems in a single building, making best use of different materials' thermal or water resistant properties, for example, where they are most needed in the structure.\n\nRainwater harvesting is the accumulating and storing of rainwater for reuse before it reaches the aquifer. It has been used to provide drinking water, water for livestock, water for irrigation, as well as other typical uses. Rainwater collected from the roofs of houses and local institutions can make an important contribution to the availability of drinking water. It can supplement the subsoil water level and increase urban greenery. Water collected from the ground, sometimes from areas which are especially prepared for this purpose, is called stormwater harvesting.\n\nGreywater is wastewater generated from domestic activities such as laundry, dishwashing, and bathing, which can be recycled on-site for uses such as landscape irrigation and constructed wetlands. Greywater is largely sterile, but not potable (drinkable). Greywater differs from water from the toilets, which is designated sewage or blackwater to indicate it contains human waste. Blackwater is septic or otherwise toxic and cannot easily be reused. There are, however, continuing efforts to make use of blackwater or human waste. The most notable is for composting through a process known as humanure; a combination of the words human and manure. Additionally, the methane in humanure can be collected and used similar to natural gas as a fuel, such as for heating or cooking, and is commonly referred to as biogas. Biogas can be harvested from the human waste and the remainder still used as humanure. Some of the simplest forms of humanure use include a composting toilet or an outhouse or dry bog surrounded by trees that are heavy feeders which can be coppiced for wood fuel. This process eliminates the use of a standard toilet with plumbing.\n\nIn agriculture and gardening, mulch is a protective cover placed over the soil. Any material or combination can be used as mulch, such as stones, leaves, cardboard, wood chips, gravel, etc., though in permaculture mulches of organic material are the most common because they perform more functions. These include absorbing rainfall, reducing evaporation, providing nutrients, increasing organic matter in the soil, feeding and creating habitat for soil organisms, suppressing weed growth and seed germination, moderating diurnal temperature swings, protecting against frost, and reducing erosion. Sheet mulching is an agricultural no-dig gardening technique that attempts to mimic natural processes occurring within forests. Sheet mulching mimics the leaf cover that is found on forest floors. When deployed properly and in combination with other Permacultural principles, it can generate healthy, productive and low maintenance ecosystems.\n\nSheet mulch serves as a \"nutrient bank,\" storing the nutrients contained in organic matter and slowly making these nutrients available to plants as the organic matter slowly and naturally breaks down. It also improves the soil by attracting and feeding earthworms, slaters and many other soil micro-organisms, as well as adding humus. Earthworms \"till\" the soil, and their worm castings are among the best fertilizers and soil conditioners. Sheet mulching can be used to reduce or eliminate non-desired plants by starving them of light, and can be more advantageous than using herbicide or other methods of control. \n\nGrazing has long been blamed for much of the destruction we see in the environment. However, it has been shown that when grazing is modeled after nature, the opposite effect can be seen. Also known as cell grazing, managed intensive rotational grazing (MIRG) is a system of grazing in which ruminant and non-ruminant herds or flocks are regularly and systematically moved to fresh pasture, range, or forest with the intent to maximize the quality and quantity of forage growth. This disturbance is then followed by a period of rest which allows new growth. MIRG can be used with cattle, sheep, goats, pigs, chickens, rabbits, geese, turkeys, ducks, and other animals depending on the natural ecological community that is being mimicked. Sepp Holzer and Joel Salatin have shown how the disturbance caused by the animals can be the spark needed to start ecological succession or prepare ground for planting. Allan Savory's holistic management technique has been likened to \"a permaculture approach to rangeland management\". One variation on MIRG that is gaining rapid popularity is called eco-grazing. Often used to either control invasives or re-establish native species, in eco-grazing the primary purpose of the animals is to benefit the environment and the animals can be, but are not necessarily, used for meat, milk or fiber.\n\nKeyline design is a technique for maximizing the beneficial use of water resources of a piece of land developed in Australia by farmer and engineer P. A. Yeomans. The \"Keyline\" refers to a specific topographic feature linked to water flow which is used in designing the drainage system of the site. The essential factor in this system, the Keyline, is a level or sloping line extending in both directions from a point or divides the two types of relationship, always in the same vertical interval, that a valley bears to its ridges.\n\nSome proponents of permaculture advocate no, or limited, pruning. One advocate of this approach is Sepp Holzer who used the method in connection with Hügelkultur berms. He has successfully grown several varieties of fruiting trees at altitudes (approximately ) far above their normal altitude, temperature, and snow load ranges. He notes that the Hügelkultur berms kept or generated enough heat to allow the roots to survive during alpine winter conditions. The point of having unpruned branches, he notes, was that the longer (more naturally formed) branches bend over under the snow load until they touched the ground, thus forming a natural arch against snow loads that would break a shorter, pruned, branch.\n\nMasanobu Fukuoka, as part of early experiments on his family farm in Japan, experimented with no-pruning methods, noting that he ended up killing many fruit trees by simply letting them go, which made them become convoluted and tangled, and thus unhealthy. Then he realised this is the difference between natural-form fruit trees and the process of change of tree form that results from abandoning previously-pruned unnatural fruit trees. He concluded that the trees should be raised all their lives without pruning, so they form healthy and efficient branch patterns that follow their natural inclination. This is part of his implementation of the Tao-philosophy of Wú wéi translated in part as no-action (against nature), and he described it as no unnecessary pruning, nature farming or \"do-nothing\" farming, of fruit trees, distinct from non-intervention or literal no-pruning. He ultimately achieved yields comparable to or exceeding standard/intensive practices of using pruning and chemical fertilisation.\n\nPermaculture Action\n\nPermaculture helps generate plans that are easy and cheap when it comes to production. Permaculture allows creativity and innovation in farming. The action of permaculture looks and all becoming consciously involved in the process of producing and ensuring abundant food nearby, problem on malnutrition caused by the world hunger problem will inevitably lessen. Permaculture principles in action are powerful forces to help right the environmental wrongs of the last two centuries.\n\nThere has been contention over who, if anyone, controls legal rights to the word \"permaculture\": is it trademarked or copyrighted? If so, who holds the legal rights to the use of the word? For a long time Bill Mollison claimed to have copyrighted the word, and his books said on the copyright page, \"The contents of this book and the word PERMACULTURE are copyright.\" These statements were largely accepted at face value within the permaculture community. However, copyright law does not protect names, ideas, concepts, systems, or methods of doing something; it only protects the expression or the description of an idea, not the idea itself. Eventually Mollison acknowledged that he was mistaken and that no copyright protection existed for the word \"permaculture\".\n\nIn 2000, Mollison's US based Permaculture Institute sought a service mark (a form of trademark) for the word \"permaculture\" when used in educational services such as conducting classes, seminars, or workshops. The service mark would have allowed Mollison and his two Permaculture Institutes (one in the US and one in Australia) to set enforceable guidelines regarding how permaculture could be taught and who could teach it, particularly with relation to the PDC, despite the fact that he had instituted a system of certification of teachers to teach the PDC in 1993. The service mark failed and was abandoned in 2001. Also in 2001 Mollison applied for trademarks in Australia for the terms \"Permaculture Design Course\" and \"Permaculture Design\". These applications were both withdrawn in 2003. In 2009 he sought a trademark for \"Permaculture: A Designers’ Manual\" and \"Introduction to Permaculture\", the names of two of his books. These applications were withdrawn in 2011. There has never been a trademark for the word \"permaculture\" in Australia.\n\nIn 2011, Owen Hablutzel argued that \"permaculture has yet to gain a large amount of specific mainstream scientific acceptance,\" and that \"the sensitiveness to being perceived and accepted on scientific terms is motivated in part by a desire for permaculture to expand and become increasingly relevant.\"\n\nIn his books \"Sustainable Freshwater Aquaculture\" and \"Farming in Ponds and Dams\", Nick Romanowski expresses the view that the presentation of aquaculture in Bill Mollison's books is unrealistic and misleading.\n\nGreg Williams argues that forests cannot be more productive than farmland because the net productivity of forests declines as they mature due to ecological succession. Proponents of permaculture respond that this is true only if one compares data between woodland forest and climax vegetation, but not when comparing farmland vegetation with woodland forest. For example, ecological succession generally results in a forest's productivity rising after its establishment only until it reaches the \"woodland state\" (67% tree cover), before declining until \"full maturity\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20241690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20241690", "title": "Police area", "text": "Police area\n\nA police area is the area for which a territorial police force in the United Kingdom is responsible for policing. \n\nEvery location in the United Kingdom has a designated territorial police force with statutory responsibility for providing policing services and enforcing criminal law, which is set out in the various police areas below. Special police forces and other non territorial constabularies do not have police areas and their respective specialist areas of responsibility are shared with the relevant geographic territorial police force. Ultimately the Chief Officer of a territorial police force has primacy over all law enforcement within his police area even if it is within the remit of a special police force such as the British Transport Police on the railway infrastructure or the Ministry of Defence Police on MOD property.\n\nThe Metropolitan Police District was the first example of a police area - when it was created, all other police forces were responsible for one county or county borough only. Police areas were introduced with the passage of the Police Act 1964 and Police (Scotland) Act 1967, when a number of small (mainly county borough) police forces were merged with county ones. \n\nThe current system of police areas in England and Wales is set out by Section 1 of the Police Act 1996.\n\nThere are 43 police areas in England and Wales, most of which are defined by Schedule 1 of the 1996 act. They may be altered by order of the Home Secretary. The two other areas, the Metropolitan Police District and the City of London police area, are defined by Section 76 of the London Government Act 1963 and the City of London Police Act 1839 respectively.\n\nNorthern Ireland and Scotland each have only one territorial police force: the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) and Police Service of Scotland.\n\n"}
{"id": "52088705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52088705", "title": "Prairie remnant", "text": "Prairie remnant\n\nA prairie remnant commonly refers to grassland areas in the Western and Midwestern United States and Canada that remain to some extent undisturbed by European settlement. Prairie remnants range in levels of degradation but nearly all contain at least some semblance of the pre-Columbian local plant assemblage of a particular region. Prairie remnants have become increasingly threatened due to the threats of agricultural, urban and suburban development, pollution, fire suppression, and the incursion of invasive species.\n\nPrairie remnants offer valuable varieties of rare species thus providing excellent opportunities for restoration ecology projects. Many restoration projects are simply recreations of prairie habitats, but restoring prairie remnants provides the preservation of more complete ecological structures that were naturally created after the end of the last ice age. Remnants can also serve as platforms for additional surrounding ecological restoration activities.\n\nIt has been estimated that 99% of tallgrass prairie habitats in North America have been destroyed mainly due to conversion to agriculture. Tallgrass prairies are generally composed of a mixture of native grasses, sedges, and forbs but are usually dominated by grasses.\nThe shortgrass prairie is an ecosystem located in the Great Plains of North America. The prairie includes lands to the west as far as the eastern foothills of the Rocky Mountains and extends east as far as Nebraska and north into Saskatchewan. The prairie stretches through parts of Alberta, Wyoming, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Kansas, and passes south through the high plains of Colorado, Oklahoma, Texas, and New Mexico.\n"}
{"id": "30353884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30353884", "title": "Robert Sturmy", "text": "Robert Sturmy\n\nRobert Sturmy was a 15th-century Bristol merchant.\n\nIn 1445 he sponsored a voyage conveying 200 pilgrims to Santiago de Compostela in Galicia and in 1447 his ship the \"Cog Anne\" took pilgrims to Jaffa in Palestine but was wrecked off Greece on the return voyage, with the loss of 37 lives. He was Sheriff of Bristol in 1450 and Mayor in 1453.\n\nHe led a commercial expedition from Bristol in 1457–58 to break the Italian monopoly on trade to the Eastern Mediterranean. If he had been successful, it would have allowed England to gain direct access to both the Oriental spices that entered Europe via the Ottoman Empire and to alum from Chios. His three-ship voyage was backed by powerful interests in England, but opposed by the Italian merchants who controlled most of Europe's long-distance trade and banking at this time. In the event, the ships succeeded in conducting their trade but were then set upon by Genoese-backed pirates on their return home. At the end of what was reported to be a three-day running battle, the Bristol fleet was captured off Malta with the loss of 128 men, including Sturmy. The financial losses, which were claimed to amount to £6,000, were to lead to the arrest of the entire Genoese community in England and the seizure of their assets. Such an extreme reaction is less surprising when it is considered that, relative to the size of the contemporary English economy, the losses would be equivalent to c. £750 million today. The effect was thought to stymie English ambitions in the Mediterranean for at least half-a-century, although it may also have helped to persuade Bristol merchants to turn their attention to Atlantic exploration. These westwards voyages included the expeditions to try to locate the island of Hy-Brazil in the 1480s, as well as John Cabot's expeditions of 1496-98, which resulted in the European discovery of North America in 1497.\n\n"}
{"id": "53475864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53475864", "title": "Sally Eden", "text": "Sally Eden\n\nSally Eden (1967–2016) was a British geographer and Professor of Human geography at the University of Hull.\n\nSally Eden’s research and writing focuses on important and significant questions about how society understands and manages the environment, including issues of sustainable consumption, green lifestyles, environmental action and forms of public engagement with the environment. In a series of research projects she examined how scientific knowledge about the environment is used within and outside of government, how river restoration projects are designed and justified and how ordinary people get involved with and make sense of how environments are managed. In her writing she has developed carefully critical lines of analysis and argument drawing on concepts from human geography but also science and technology studies and environmental politics. Much of her work has been drawn together in the book ‘Environmental Publics’ (Routledge 2017) which from the starting point that ‘the public’ is not one thing and their engagements with the environment take multiple forms, provides a fascinating account of how environmental publics know, participate, consume, enjoy, campaign, vote and work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52013603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52013603", "title": "Slingerland (surname)", "text": "Slingerland (surname)\n\nSlingerland is a Dutch toponymic surname. It refers to an origin in the heerlijkheid of Slingelandt, now covered by the former community of Nederslingeland and the town of Overslingeland in South Holland. Variants are \"(Van) Slingeland\" and \"Slingelandt\". Many Americans named Slingerland are descendants of Dutch settler Teunis Cornelis Slingerland (1617, Amsterdam – 1700, Hackensack, New Jersey). Notable people with the name include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21683245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21683245", "title": "Solomon Islands (archipelago)", "text": "Solomon Islands (archipelago)\n\nThe Solomon Islands are an archipelago in the western South Pacific Ocean, located northeast of Australia. They are in the Melanesia subregion and bioregion of Oceania. The archipelago forms much of the territory of Solomon Islands, while the northwestern islands are within the Autonomous Region of Bougainville, in eastern Papua New Guinea. It forms the eastern boundary of the Solomon Sea.\n\nThe Solomon Islands consist of both volcanic islands of varying activity and of coral atolls. Bougainville Island is the largest in the archipelago.\n\nThe climate of the islands is tropical, however temperatures do not greatly fluctuate due to the heat sink of the surrounding ocean. Daytime temperatures are normally and at night. From April to October (the dry season), the southeast trade winds blow, gusting at times up to or more.\n\nNovember to March is the wet season, caused by the northwest monsoon, and is typically warmer and wetter. Cyclones arise in the Coral Sea and the area of the Solomon Islands, but they usually veer toward Vanuatu and New Caledonia or down the coast of Australia.\n\nIt is believed that Papuan-speaking settlers began to arrive around 30,000 BCE from New Ireland. It was the furthest humans went in the Pacific until Austronesian speakers arrived c. 4000 BCE, also bringing cultural elements such as the outrigger canoe.\n\nIt is between 1200 and 800 BCE that the ancestors of the Polynesians, the Lapita people, arrived from the Bismarck Archipelago with their characteristic ceramics. Most of the languages spoken today in the Solomon Islands derive from this era, but some thirty languages of the pre-Austronesian settlers survive \"(see East Papuan languages).\"\n\nThe first European to visit the islands was the Spanish navigator Álvaro de Mendaña de Neira, coming from the Viceroyalty of Peru to the Spanish East Indies in 1568. The people of Solomon Islands had engaged in headhunting and cannibalism before the arrival of the Europeans.\n\nMissionaries began visiting the Solomons in the mid-19th century. They made little progress at first, because \"blackbirding\", the often brutal recruitment and relocation of labourers for the sugar plantations in Queensland and Fiji, led to a series of reprisals and massacres. In 1885 the Germans declared a protectorate over the northern islands, to form the German Solomon Islands Protectorate. The evils of the labour trade prompted the United Kingdom to declare a protectorate over the southern islands in June 1893, the British Solomon Islands Protectorate.\n\nIn 1900, under the Treaty of Berlin, the Germans transferred a number of their Solomon Islands to the British Solomon Islands Protectorate. The remaining German Solomon Islands, at the extreme northwest of the archipelago, were retained by Germany until they fell to Australia early on in World War I. After the war the League of Nations formally mandated those islands to Australia along with the rest of German New Guinea, becoming Australian New Guinea.\n\nDuring World War II, the Territory of Papua and the Mandated Territory of New Guinea were within the Australian New Guinea Administrative Unit (1942–1946). After the war the Australian Territory of New Guinea was administered separately from the neighbouring Territory of Papua until the year 1949 when the two territories were formally united into the Territory of Papua and New Guinea.\n\nThe Territory of Papua and New Guinea became independent from Australia in the year 1975 as the modern state of Papua New Guinea. The Autonomous Region of Bougainville of Papua New Guinea was established in the northern Solomon Islands in 2000.\n\nFollowing the independence of neighbouring Papua New Guinea from Australia in 1975, the British Solomon Islands gained self-government in 1976. Independence for the Solomon Islands nation was granted on 7 July 1978.\n\nThe population of the Solomons is mostly Melanesian, although minority Polynesian and Micronesian communities exist. There has also been a large influx of Chinese immigrants.\n\nAround 60 to 70 languages are spoken in the Solomon Islands. Many Melanesian languages (predominantly of the Southeast Solomonic group) and Polynesian languages are native to the area. Immigrant populations speak Micronesian languages. English is an official language in both areas of the archipelago. There are three families of Papuan languages native to the archipelago: the North Bougainville languages, South Bougainville languages, and the Central Solomon languages.\n\nThe predominant religion on the islands is Christianity, with the largest denomination being the Anglican Church of Melanesia.\n\nGovernance of the Solomon Islands archipelago is split between the state of Solomon Islands and the Autonomous Region of Bougainville in Papua New Guinea. Both countries are constitutional monarchies and Commonwealth realms. Bougainville is considering independence from Papua New Guinea.\n\n"}
{"id": "17945609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17945609", "title": "Sustainability science", "text": "Sustainability science\n\nSustainability science emerged in the 21st century as a new academic discipline. This new field of science was officially introduced with a \"Birth Statement\" at the World Congress \"Challenges of a Changing Earth 2001\" in Amsterdam organized by the International Council for Science (ICSU), the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme (IGBP), the International Human Dimensions Programme on Global Environmental Change and the World Climate Research Programme (WCRP). \nThe field reflects a desire to give the generalities and broad-based approach of “sustainability” a stronger analytic and scientific underpinning as it \"brings together scholarship and practice, global and local perspectives from north and south, and disciplines across the natural and social sciences, engineering, and medicine\". Ecologist William C. Clark proposes that it can be usefully thought of as \"neither 'basic' nor 'applied' research but as a field defined by the problems it addresses rather than by the disciplines it employs\" and that it \"serves the need for advancing both knowledge and action by creating a dynamic bridge between the two\".\n\nThe field is focused on examining the interactions between human, environmental, and engineered systems to understand and contribute to solutions for complex challenges that threaten the future of humanity and the integrity of the life support systems of the planet, such as climate change, biodiversity loss, pollution and land and water degradation.\n\nSustainability science, like sustainability itself, derives some impetus from the concepts of sustainable development and environmental science. Sustainability science provides a critical framework for sustainability while sustainability measurement provides the evidence-based quantitative data needed to guide sustainability governance.\n\nConsensual definition of sustainability science is as elusive as the definition of \"sustainability\" or \"sustainable development\". In an overview presented on its website in 2008 the Sustainability Science Program at Harvard University described the field in the following way, stressing its interdisciplinarity:\n'Sustainability science' is problem-driven, interdisciplinary scholarship that seeks to facilitate the design, implementation, and evaluation of effective interventions that foster shared prosperity and reduced poverty while protecting the environment. It is defined by the problems it addresses rather than the disciplines it employs. It thus draws as needed from multiple disciplines of the natural, social, medical and engineering sciences, from the professions, and from the knowledge of practice. Susan W. Kieffer and colleagues, in 2003, suggested, more specifically, that sustainability science is: \n... the cultivation, integration, and application of knowledge about Earth systems gained especially from the holistic and historical sciences (such as geology, ecology, climatology, oceanography) coordinated with knowledge about human interrelationships gained from the social sciences and humanities, in order to evaluate, mitigate, and minimize the consequences, regionally and worldwide, of human impacts on planetary systems and on societies across the globe and into the future – that is, in order that humans can be knowledgeable Earth stewards.\n\nIt has been noted that the new paradigm ... must encompass different magnitudes of scales (of time, space, and function), multiple balances (dynamics), multiple actors (interests) and multiple failures (systemic faults).\n\nOthers take a much broader view of sustainability science, emphasizing the need to analyze the root causes of the fundamental unsustainability of the prevailing economic system, such as the emphasis on growth as key to solving political and social problems and advancing society's well-being. In a 2012 article entitled \"Sustainability Science Needs to Include Sustainable Consumption,\" published in Environment: Science and Policy for Sustainable Development, Halina Brown argues that sustainability science must include the study of the sociology of material consumption and the structure of consumerist society, the role of technology in aggravating the unsustainable social practices, as well as in solving the problems they create, the macroeconomic theories that presuppose economic growth as a necessary condition for advancing societal well-being, and others.\n\nThe case for making research and development an important component of sustainable development strategies was embraced by many international scientific organizations in the mid-1980s, promoted by the Brundtland Commission's report \"Our Common Future\" in 1987, and noted in the \"Agenda 21\" plan that emerged from the \"United Nations Conference on Environment and Development\" in 1992 and further developed at the \"World Summit on Sustainable Development\", held in Johannesburg in 2002.\n\nThe topics of the following sub-headings indicate recurring themes that are addressed in the literature of sustainability science. In 2010 a compendium of basic papers in this new discipline was published as \"Readings in Sustainability Science and Technology\", edited by Robert Kates, with a preface by William Clark. The 2012 Commentary by Halina Brown extensively expands the scope of that seminal publication. This is work in progress. The 2012 Encyclopedia of Sustainability Science and Technology was created as a collaboration of over 1000 scientists to provide peer-reviewed entries covering sustainability research and policy evaluations of technology.\n\nKnowledge structuring has been identified as an essential first step in the effort to acquire a comprehensive view of sustainability issues which are both complex and interconnected. This is needed as a response to the requirements of academia, industry and government.\n\nThe key research and data for sustainability are sourced from many scientific disciplines, topics and organisations. A major part of knowledge structuring will entail building up the tools that provide an “overview” of what is known. Sustainability science can construct and coordinate a framework within which the vast amount of data can be easily accessed.\n\nThe attempt, by sustainability science, to understand the integrated “whole” of planetary and human systems requires cooperation between scientific, social and economic disciplines, public and private sectors, academia and government. In short it requires a massive global cooperative effort and one major task of sustainability science is to assist integrated cross-disciplinary coordination.\n\n\nIn recent years, more and more university degree programs have developed formal curricula which address issues of sustainability science and global change:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "892271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=892271", "title": "Talish-i Gushtasbi", "text": "Talish-i Gushtasbi\n\nTalish-i Gushtasbi (Persian: تالش گشتاسبی) is the historical name of the northern Talysh area, presently a part of the Republic of Azerbaijan. During the Abbasid Caliphate, there was a (partially equivalent) region called Gushtasfi (Persian: گشتاسفی). People of northern Talysh are of Iranian stock and speak a northwestern Iranian language called Talysh. The chief cities of the area are Talesh, Lankaran, Lerik, Masally and Astara.\n"}
{"id": "47525682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47525682", "title": "Time in Oman", "text": "Time in Oman\n\nTime in Oman is given by Gulf Standard Time (GST) (). Oman does not observe daylight saving time.\n"}
{"id": "56843575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56843575", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of Peru", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of Peru\n\nPeru requires its residents to register their motor vehicles and display vehicle registration plates. Current plates are North American standard 6 × 12 inches (152 × 300 mm).\n\nAll vehicles are required to display plates on the front and back. Peculiarly, taxis in Peru are also required to display the characters of the license plates on each side of the vehicle. This is done with actual a large decal.\n\nThe first letter of these plates indicated the vehicle type, and the chart below shows the letters assigned to each type. The second letter indicated the region (or province for the City of Lima) where the vehicle was registered. The second chart below shows these codes.\n\nPlates issued during the years 1995 - 2009 continued to use the same format that was begun in 1975. The first letter continued to indicate the vehicle type, and the second letter indicated the region or province. These plates were black characters on a yellow background and they continued to use the same format, ABC-123, until all combinations in a region or province were exhausted. When complete, the old series was followed by plates with black characters on a white background, but they used the format AB-1234.\n\nThe redesign of the Peruvian plates included many changes. The national flag of Peru is displayed in color, without the shield, in the upper left hand corner. The word Peru is centered at the top in all capital letters. There is a holographic label at the top right with the plate number and nanotext, and any attempt to remove it will cause its destruction. The background to the plate has reflective sheeting which contains a high security seal (watermark). At the lower left of the plate a security serial number is laser engraved into the plate. In the background of the center of the plate is a three-dimensional interwoven sine wave. The plates are made of aluminum and are 150 mm tall by 300 mm wide except for motorcycles which are 110 mm tall by 190 mm wide. The holographic seal is also smaller on the motorcycle plates. \n\nThe new series of plates began to be issued in January 2010. The first character of the plate continued to designate the region or province, but the letters were reassigned to different regions. With the new plate colors representing the vehicle type, the second character no longer represented the vehicle type.\n\nThe second character of these plates first takes on a numerical value of 1 to 9 (in order) followed by the number 0, and then the letters of the alphabet in alphabetical order. All vehicles now are issued the so-called \"third plate\" which is a windshield sticker that includes an RFID chip. The RFID chip allows the police to electronically verify the registration of the vehicle with a hand-held reader. The third plate cannot be removed from the windshield without it being destroyed.\n\nAll Special Series plates are easily distinguished by the small letter \"E,\" representing the spanish word \"especial\", as the first character at the left hand side of the plate. To prevent confusion, the letter \"E\" is not used to identify any region or province. \n\nFor the visit of the Roman Catholic Pope, Francis, from 18-21 January 2018, special license plates were created. These plates have all of the same security features as regular plates, but the coloring, yellow and white which are the official colors of the Holy See, the lettering, and the use of the coat of arms of the Vatican, are unique to these plates. Three license plates of the style shown here were produced. Additionally, there were 30 Exhibition plates issued for the Papal delegation.\n"}
{"id": "24296405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24296405", "title": "Åland Islands", "text": "Åland Islands\n\nThe Åland Islands or Åland (, ; ) is an archipelago province at the entrance to the Gulf of Bothnia in the Baltic Sea belonging to Finland. It is autonomous, demilitarised and is the only monolingually Swedish-speaking region in Finland. It is the smallest region of Finland, constituting 0.49% of its land area and 0.50% of its population.\n\nÅland comprises Fasta Åland on which 90% of the population resides and a further 6,500 skerries and islands to its east. Fasta Åland is separated from the coast of Sweden by of open water to the west. In the east, the Åland archipelago is contiguous with the Finnish Archipelago Sea. Åland's only land border is located on the uninhabited skerry of Märket, which it shares with Sweden.\n\nÅland's autonomous status means that those provincial powers normally exercised by representatives of the central Finnish government are largely exercised by its own government.\n\nThe autonomous status of the islands was affirmed by a decision made by the League of Nations in 1921 following the Åland Islands dispute. It was reaffirmed within the treaty admitting Finland to the European Union. By law, Åland is politically neutral and entirely demilitarised, and residents are exempt from conscription to the Finnish Defence Forces. The islands were granted extensive autonomy by the Parliament of Finland in the Act on the Autonomy of Åland of 1920, which was later replaced by new legislation by the same name in 1951 and 1991. The constitution of Finland defines a \"constitution of Åland\" by referring to this act. Åland remains exclusively Swedish-speaking by this act.\n\nIn connection with Finland's admission to the European Union, a protocol was signed concerning the Åland Islands that stipulates, among other things, that provisions of the European Community Treaty shall not force a change of the existing restrictions for foreigners (i.e., persons who do not enjoy \"home region rights\"——in Åland) to acquire and hold real property or to provide certain services.\n\nÅland's original name was in the Proto-Norse language * which means \"land of water\". In Swedish, this first developed into and eventually into , literally \"river land\"—even though rivers are not a prominent feature of Åland's geography. The Finnish and Estonian names of the island, and (\"perch land\"), are seen to preserve another form of the old name.\n\nAnother theory suggests that the Finnish would be the original name of the archipelago, from which the Swedish derives.\n\nThe official name, , means \"the Region of Åland\"; is cognate to English \"landscape\".\n\nMembers of the Neolithic Comb Ceramic culture started settling the islands some 7000 years ago, after the islands had begun to re-emerge from the sea after being pushed down by the weight of the continental ice of the latest ice age. Two neolithic cultures met on Åland: Comb Ceramic culture and later Pit-Comb Ware culture which spread from the west.\n\nStone Age and Bronze Age people obtained food by hunting seals and birds, fishing, and gathering plants. They also started agriculture early on. In the Iron Age, contacts to Scandinavia were increasing. From the Viking age there are over 380 documented burial sites and six castle ruins.\n\nThe Åland Islands formed part of the territory ceded to Russia by Sweden under the Treaty of Fredrikshamn in September 1809. As a result, they became part of the semi-autonomous Grand Duchy of Finland. During this process, Sweden failed to secure a provision that the islands not be fortified. The issue was important not only for Sweden but also for the United Kingdom, which was concerned that a military presence on the islands could threaten Britain's military and commercial interests.\n\nIn 1832, Russia started to fortify the islands with the great fortress of Bomarsund. A combined British and French force of warships and marines captured and destroyed the fortress in 1854 as part of the campaign in the Baltic during the Crimean War. The 1856 Treaty of Paris demilitarised the entire Åland archipelago.\n\nDuring the Finnish Civil War, in 1918, Swedish troops intervened as a peacekeeping force between the Russian troops stationed on the islands and \"White\" and \"Red\" Finnish troops who came from Finland over the frozen sea. (Historians point out that Sweden may have in reality planned to occupy the islands.) Within weeks, the Swedish troops gave way to German troops who occupied Åland by request of the \"White\" (conservative) Senate of Finland.\n\nAfter 1917 the residents of the islands worked towards having them ceded to Sweden. In 1919 a petition for secession from Finland and integration with Sweden was signed by 96.4% of the voters on the islands, with over 95% in favour. Swedish nationalist sentiments had grown strong particularly as a result of the anti-Swedish tendencies in Finland and Finnish nationalism fueled by Finland's struggle to retain its autonomy and resistance against Russification. The conflict between the Swedish-speaking minority and the Finnish-speaking majority on the mainland, prominent in Finnish politics since the 1840s, contributed to the apprehension of the Åland population about its future in Finland.\n\nFinland, however, declined to cede the islands and instead offered them an autonomous status. Nevertheless, the residents did not approve the offer, and the dispute over the islands was submitted to the League of Nations. The latter decided that Finland should retain sovereignty over the province but that the Åland Islands should be made an autonomous territory. Thus Finland was obliged to ensure the residents of the Åland Islands the right to maintain the Swedish language, as well as their own culture and local traditions. At the same time, an international treaty established the neutral status of Åland, prohibiting the placing of military installations or forces on the islands.\n\nThe combination of disappointment about insufficient support from Sweden in the League of Nations, Swedish disrespect for Åland's demilitarised status in the 1930s, and some feelings of a shared destiny with Finland during and after World War II has changed the islanders' perception of Åland's relation to Finland from \"a Swedish province in Finnish possession\" to \"an autonomous part of Finland\". The islanders enjoyed safety at sea during World War II, as their merchant fleet sailed for both the Allied countries and Germany. Consequently, Åland shipping was not generally attacked as each side rarely knew which cargo was being carried to whom.\n\nFinland marked the 150th anniversary of demilitarisation of the Åland Islands by issuing a high-value commemorative coin, the €5 150th Anniversary of Demilitarisation of Åland Islands commemorative coin, minted in 2006. The obverse depicts a pine tree, very typical in the Åland Islands. The reverse design features a boat's stern and rudder, with a dove perched on the tiller, a symbol of 150 years of peace.\n\nThe Åland Islands are governed according to the Act on the Autonomy of Åland and international treaties. These laws guarantee the islands' autonomy from Finland, which has ultimate sovereignty over them, as well as a demilitarised status. The Government of Åland, or , answers to the Parliament of Åland, or , in accordance with the principles of parliamentarism.\n\nÅland has its own flag and has issued its own postage stamps since 1984. It runs its own police force, and is an associate member of the Nordic Council. The islands are demilitarised, and the population is exempt from conscription. Although Åland's autonomy preceded the creation of the regions of Finland, the autonomous government of Åland also has responsibility for the functions undertaken by Finland's regional councils. Åland Post provides postal services to the islands, and is a member of the Small European Postal Administration Cooperation. The islands are considered a separate \"nation\" for amateur radio purposes and have their own call sign prefix granted by Finland, codice_1, codice_2 and codice_3 (last character is zero). Even though Åland is economically dependent on Finland, independence movement gains wide popularity among people. \n\nThe Åland Islands are guaranteed representation in the Finnish parliament, to which they elect one representative. Åland also has a different system of political parties from the mainland (see List of political parties in Finland).\n\nHomeschooling, which was effectively banned in Sweden in 2011, is allowed by the Finnish government. Due to the islands' proximity to Sweden and because the islands are Swedish speaking, a number of Swedish homeschooling families have moved from the Swedish mainland to Åland, including Jonas Himmelstrand, the chairman of the Swedish association for homeschooling.\n\nThe State Department of Åland represents the Finnish central government and performs many administrative duties. It has a somewhat different function from the other Regional Administrative Agencies, owing to its . Before 2010, the state administration was handled by the Åland State Provincial Office.\n\nÅland has its own postal administration but still uses the Finnish five-digit postal code system, using the number range 22000–22999, with the prefix AX. The lowest numbered postal code is for the capital Mariehamn, AX 22100, and the highest AX 22950 for Jurmo.\n\nPopulation as end of December, 2017.\n\nThe Åland Islands occupy a position of strategic importance, as they command one of the entrances to the port of Stockholm, as well as the approaches to the Gulf of Bothnia, in addition to being situated near the Gulf of Finland.\n\nThe Åland archipelago includes nearly three hundred habitable islands, of which about eighty are inhabited; the remainder are merely some 6,200 skerries and desolate rocks. The archipelago is connected to Åboland archipelago in the east (, )—the archipelago adjacent to the southwest coast of Finland. Together they form the Archipelago Sea. To the West from Åland is the Sea of Åland and to the North is the Bothnian Sea.\n\nThe surface of the islands is generally rocky and the soil thin due to glacial stripping at the end of the most recent ice age. The islands also contain many meadows that are home to many different kinds of insects, such as the Glanville fritillary butterfly. There are several harbours.\n\nThe islands' landmass occupies a total area of . Ninety percent of the population live on Fasta Åland, which is also the site of the capital town of Mariehamn. Fasta Åland is the largest island in the archipelago. Its area is difficult to estimate due to its irregular shape and coastline, but estimates range from 740 square kilometres to 879 square kilometres to over 1,010 square kilometres, depending on what is included or excluded.\n\nDuring the Åland Islands dispute, the parties sought support from different maps of the islands. On the Swedish map, the most densely populated main island dominated, and many skerries were left out. On the Finnish map, many smaller islands or skerries were, for technical reasons, given a slightly exaggerated size. The Swedish map made the islands appear to be closer to the mainland of Sweden than to Finland; the Finnish map stressed the continuity of the archipelago between the main island and mainland Finland, while a greater gap appeared between the islands and the archipelago on the Swedish side. One consequence is the often repeated number of \"over 6,000\" skerries that was given authority by the outcome of the arbitration.\n\nÅland has a humid continental climate that is influenced by its maritime position, especially in summer. While summers are cooler than on both the Swedish and Finnish mainland, winters see little difference to the adjacent parts of Sweden and are only narrowly milder than in mainland Finland.\n\nÅland's economy is heavily dominated by shipping, trade and tourism. Shipping represents about 40% of the economy, with several international carriers owned and operated off Åland. Most companies aside from shipping are small, with fewer than ten employees. Farming and fishing are important in combination with the food industry. A few high-profile technology companies contribute to a prosperous economy. Wind power is rapidly developing, aiming at reversing the direction in the cables to the mainland in coming years. In December 2011, wind power accounted for 31.5% of Åland's total electricity usage.\n\nThe main ports are Mariehamn (south), Berghamn (west) and Långnäs on the eastern shore of the Main Island.\n\nMariehamn served as the base for the last large oceanic commercial sailing-ships in the world. Their final tasks involved bringing Australian wheat to Great Britain, a trade which Åland shipowner Gustaf Erikson kept going until 1947. The ships latterly made only one round-trip from South Australia to Britain per year, (the grain race), after each marathon voyage going back to Mariehamn to lay up for a few months. The ship \"Pommern\", now a museum in Mariehamn, was one of these last vessels.\n\nThe abolition of tax-free sales on ferry boats travelling between destinations within the European Union made Finland demand an exception for the Åland Islands on the European Union value-added tax rules. The exception allows for maintained tax-free sales on the ferries between Sweden and Finland (provided they stop at Mariehamn or Långnäs) and at the airport, but has also made Åland a different tax-zone, meaning that tariffs must be levied on goods brought to the islands.\n\nUnemployment was 3.9% in January 2014\n\nThe Finnish State also collects taxes, duties and fees in Åland. In return, the Finnish Government places a sum of money at the disposal of the Åland Parliament. The sum is 0.5% of total Government income, excluding Government loans. If the sum paid to the Finnish state exceeds 0.5%, then any amount above goes back to the Parliament of Åland as \"diligence money\". In 2010 the amount of taxes paid by Åland Islanders comprised 0.7% of the total taxes paid in Finland.\n\nAccording to Eurostat, Åland was the 20th-wealthiest of the EU's 268 regions, and the wealthiest in Finland, with a GDP per inhabitant 47% above the EU mean.\n\nWhile the official currency is the Euro, most businesses in Åland unofficially accept the Swedish krona.\n\nBirths and deaths:\n\nMost inhabitants speak Swedish (the sole official language) as their first language: 90.2% in 2009, while 5.0% spoke Finnish. The language of instruction in publicly financed schools is Swedish (In the rest of Finland, bilingual municipalities provide schooling both in Finnish and in Swedish). (See Åland Swedish for information about the dialect.)\n\nThe issue of the ethnicity of the Ålanders, and the correct linguistic classification of their language, remains somewhat sensitive and controversial. They may be considered either ethnic Swedes or Swedish-speaking Finns, but their language is closer to the Uppländska dialect of Sweden than to Finland Swedish. See Languages of Sweden.\n\nRegional citizenship or the right of domicile () is a prerequisite for voting, standing as a candidate for the Legislative Assembly, or owning and holding real estate situated in unplanned areas of Åland.\n\nThe majority of the population, 74.5%, belongs to the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland. The Åland islands contain Finland's oldest Christian churches, including St. Olaf's Church, Jomala, which dating from the late 13th century is likely to be the oldest in Finland. The Åland Islands' largest church is the Church of St. George in Sund, dating from shortly after.\n\n\nÅland Stags is the islands' only Rugby Union club.\n\n\n\n"}
