{"id": "9292074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9292074", "title": "A-Plus (rapper)", "text": "A-Plus (rapper)\n\nAdam Carter, known by the stage name, A-Plus, is an American rapper and producer. He is one of the founding four members of the Oakland, California-based underground hip hop group Souls of Mischief, and, with Souls of Mischief, a part of the eight-person, alternative hip hop collective, the Hieroglyphics.\n\nBorn in Denver, Colorado as the son of Jamaican immigrants, A-Plus moved to Oakland, California with his family when he was 5 years old. In kindergarten, A-Plus met future Hieroglyphics member, Casual, and in elementary school, met fellow Souls of Mischief member Tajai. Tajai eventually introduced A-Plus to future Souls of Mischief members Phesto and Opio, and the group formed in high school before releasing their debut album, \"93 'til Infinity\" on Jive Records in 1993.\n\nAfter A-Plus and the Souls of Mischief were dropped by Jive, the group was incorporated into the Hieroglyphics in 1995, at the urging of Del tha Funkee Homosapien.\n\nA-Plus has contributed to all four Souls of Mischief albums, as well as the two Hieroglyphic studio albums. He has also produced or performed on solo projects of various Hieroglyphics' members.\n\nIn 2005, A-Plus released a remix album, \"Pleemix, Vol. 1\", through Hieroglyphics Imperium Recordings.\n\nOn May 1, 2007, A-Plus released his debut solo album, \"My Last Good Deed\" through Hieroglyphics Imperium Recordings. The debut single is \"Patna Please.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2242596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2242596", "title": "Abba Gomol", "text": "Abba Gomol\n\n\"Moti\" Abba Gomol was a King of the Gibe Kingdom of Jimma (r. 1862–1878).\n\nAbba Gomol was the son of Abba Bok'a and a woman from the Busase family of the Kingdom of Kaffa.\n\nHis major achievement was conquering the Kingdom of Garo, which became the southeast portion of the Kingdom of Jimma.\n"}
{"id": "32636970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32636970", "title": "Altanochir", "text": "Altanochir\n\nAltanochir (1887–?) was an Inner Mongolian politician under the Republic of China and the Mengjiang government.\n\nHistorical sources refer to him by a variety of names:\n\nWhen Altanochir was in his youth, he was one of a small number of Mongolian students sent to Japan under the sponsorship of Prince Gungsangnorbu of Right Harqin Banner. He would go on to become a member of the Inner Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party. He would go on to join the Mengjiang government in 1937, and rose to the position of Minister of Communications in 1939. He also served as first head of the Mongolian Cultural Centre (蒙古文化館) in Hohhot. In September 1939, he was succeeded by Idchin (伊德欽) in that position, and became rector of the Mongolian Academy (蒙古學院).\n\nAltanochir was known to have remained in mainland China following the establishment of the People's Republic of China in 1949, but his fate after that point is unknown. His son Togtakhu (托克托琥) was active in the Kuomintang, and went on to teach at the Mongolian and Tibetan School in Beijing.\n\n"}
{"id": "56953827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56953827", "title": "Andrew Hessel", "text": "Andrew Hessel\n\nAndrew Hessel is a micro-biologist and geneticist and entrepreur. He founded the Pink Army Cooperative, and Humane Genomics, Inc. Between 2012-2017, he was a Distinguished Researcher at Autodesk Life Sciences. Hessel is co-chair of Bioinformatics and Biotechnology at Singularity University, and a fellow at the Institute for Science, Society, and Policy at the University of Ottawa. He is also involved in Genome Project-Write.\n\n"}
{"id": "93952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93952", "title": "Bagoas", "text": "Bagoas\n\nBagoas ( \"Bagoi\", \"Bagōas\"; died 336 BC) was a prominent Persian official who served as the vizier (Chief Minister) of the Achaemenid Empire until his death.\n\nBagoas was a eunuch who later became the vizier to Artaxerxes III. In this role, he allied himself with the Rhodian mercenary general Mentor, and with his help succeeded in once again making Egypt a province of the Persian Empire (probably from 342 BC). Mentor became general of the maritime provinces, suppressed the rebels in Egypt and sent Greek mercenaries to the king, while Bagoas administered the satrapies and gained such power that he was almost the real master of the Persian Empire towards the end of Artaxerxes III's reign (Diod. xvi. 50; cf. Didymus, \"Comm. in Demosth. Phil.\" vi. 5).\n\nArtaxerxes IV Arses was the youngest son of King Artaxerxes III and Atossa and was not expected to succeed to the throne of Persia. His unexpected rise to the throne came in 338 BC as a result of the murder of his father and most of his family by Bagoas, when the vizier fell out of favour with Artaxerxes III. Bagoas sought to remain in office by replacing Artaxerxes with his son Arses (Artaxerxes IV), whom he thought easier to control. Arses remained little more than a puppet-king during the two years of his reign while Bagoas acted as the power behind the throne. Eventually, disgruntled by this state of affairs and possibly influenced by the nobles of the Royal Court, who generally held Bagoas in contempt, Arses started planning Bagoas' murder. However, Bagoas again acted first in order to protect himself and managed to poison and kill Arses. Bagoas then raised a cousin of Arses to the throne as King Darius III of Persia.\n\nWhen Darius attempted to become independent of the powerful vizier, Bagoas tried to poison him too; but Darius was warned and forced Bagoas to drink the poison himself (Diod. xvii. 5; Johann. Antioch, p. 38, 39 ed. Müller; Arrian ii. 14. 5; Curt. vi. 4. 10).\n\nIt was said that Bagoas became very wealthy by confiscating the sacred writings of the Egyptian temples and giving them back to the priests for large bribes (Diod. XVI. 51). When the high priest of Jerusalem murdered his brother Jesus in the temple, Bagoas (who had supported Jesus) put a new tax on the Jews and entered the temple, saying that he was purer than the murderer who performed the priestly office (Joseph. \"Ant.\" xi. 7.1).\n\nA later story, that Bagoas was an Egyptian and killed Artaxerxes III because he had killed the sacred Apis (Aelian, \"Var. Hist.\" vi. 8), is without historical basis.\n\nBagoas' house in Susa, with rich treasures, was presented by Alexander to Parmenion (Plut. \"Alex.\" 39); his gardens in Babylon, with the best species of palms, are mentioned by Theophrastus (\"Hist. Plant\", ii. 6; Plin. \"Nat. Hist.\" xiii. 41).\n\nPlutarch reports an angry letter from Alexander to Darius, naming Bagoas as one of the persons that organized the murder of his father, Philip II.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6271835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6271835", "title": "Birth tourism", "text": "Birth tourism\n\nBirth tourism is travel to another country for the purpose of giving birth in that country. \"Anchor baby\" is another related term which can have negative connotations. The main reason for birth tourism is to obtain citizenship for the child in a country with birthright citizenship (\"jus soli\"). Other reasons include access to public schooling, healthcare, sponsorship for the parents in the future, or even circumvention of China's two-child policy. Popular destinations include the United States and Canada. Another target for birth tourism is Hong Kong, where mainland Chinese citizens travel to give birth to gain right of abode for their children.\n\nTo discourage birth tourism, Australia, France, Germany, Ireland, New Zealand, South Africa, and the United Kingdom have modified their citizenship laws at different times, granting citizenship by birth only if at least one parent is a citizen of the country or a legal permanent resident who has lived in the country for several years. Germany has never granted unconditional birthright citizenship, but has traditionally used \"jus sanguinis\", so, by giving up the requirement of at least one citizen parent, Germany has softened rather than tightened its citizenship laws; however, unlike their children born and grown up in Germany, non-EU- and non-Swiss-citizen parents born and grown up abroad usually cannot have dual citizenship themselves.\n\nNo European country presently grants unconditional birthright citizenship; however, most countries in the Americas, e.g., the United States, Canada, Mexico, Argentina, and Brazil do so. In Africa, Lesotho and Tanzania grant unconditional birthright citizenship, and so do in the Asian-Pacific region Fiji, Pakistan, and Tuvalu. \n\nThe United States, Canada, and Mexico all grant unconditional birthright citizenship and allow dual citizenship. The United States taxes its citizens and green card holders worldwide, even if they have never lived in the country. In Mexico, only naturalized citizens can lose their Mexican citizenship again (e.g., by naturalizing in another country). \n\nThe Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution guarantees U.S. citizenship to those born in the United States, provided the person is \"subject to the jurisdiction\" of the United States. Congress has further extended birthright citizenship to all inhabited U.S. territories except American Samoa. (A person born in American Samoa becomes a non-citizen US national). The parent(s) and child are still subject to \" de jure \" and \" de facto \" deportation, respectively. However, once they reach 21 years of age, American-born children, as birthright citizens, are able to sponsor their foreign families' U.S. citizenship and residency.\n\nThere are no statistics about which countries have citizens who participate in birth tourism in the United States. The Center for Health Care Statistics estimates that there were 7,462 births to foreign residents in the United States in 2008, the most recent year for which statistics are available. That is a small fraction of the roughly 4.3 million total births that year. The Center for Immigration Studies, a conservative think tank, estimated in 2012 that there were approximately 40,000 annual births to parents in the United States as birth tourists. The Center also estimated in 2012 that total births to temporary immigrants in the United States (e.g., tourists, students, guest workers) could be as high as 200,000.\n\nRussian birth tourism to Florida to 'maternity hotels' in the 2010s is documented. Birth tourism packages complete with lodging and medical care delivered in Russian begin at $20,000, and go as high as $84,700 for an apartment in Miami's Trump Tower II complete with a \"gold-tiled bathtub and chauffeured Cadillac Escalade.\" \n\nOne option for mainland Chinese mothers to give birth is Saipan, Northern Mariana Islands, where the cost is cheaper and travel does not require a U.S. visa. More than 70% of the newborns in Saipan have birth tourist PRC parents who take advantage of the 45-day visa-free visitation rules of the territory and the Covenant of the Northern Mariana Islands to ensure that their children can have American citizenship. There were 282 of these births in 2012.\n\n, Los Angeles is considered a center of the maternity tourism industry, which caters mostly to wealthy Asian women; authorities in the city there closed 14 maternity tourism \"hotels\" in 2013. The industry is difficult to close down since it is not illegal for a pregnant woman to travel to the U.S.\n\nOn March 3, 2015 Federal Agents in Los Angeles conducted a series of raids on 3 \"multimillion-dollar birth-tourism businesses\" expected to produce the \"biggest federal criminal case ever against the booming 'anchor baby' industry\", according to the Wall Street Journal.\n\nNumerous \"maternity businesses\" advise pregnant mothers to hide their pregnancies from officials and even commit visa fraud—lying to customs agents about their true purpose in the U.S. Once they give birth, several 'birth tourism' agencies aid the mothers in defrauding the U.S. hospital, taking advantage of discounts reserved for impoverished American mothers. Some mothers will refuse to pay the bill for the medical care received during their hospital stay.\n\nOn October 18, 2014, the North American Chinese language \"Daily World Journal\" reported that for several weeks the immigration authorities at LAX had been closely questioning pregnant Chinese women arriving there from China, and in many cases denying them entry to the United States and repatriating them within 12 hours, often on the same airplane on which they had flown to the United States. In March 2015, federal agents conducted raids on a series of large-scale maternity tourism operations bringing thousands of mainland Chinese women intent on giving their children American citizenship. Congressional representatives such as Phil Gingrey, who have tried to put an end to birth tourism, said these people are \"gaming the system\". In August 2015, the issue was discussed among U.S. presidential candidates, including Donald Trump and Jeb Bush.\n\nThe United States and Eritrea are currently the only two countries in the world to tax their citizens worldwide, even if they have never lived in the country and were born to citizens living abroad.\nEritrea does not grant unconditional birthright citizenship; at least one parent must be a citizen for a child to be granted automatic citizenship. Eritreans that hold citizenship from another country must be Eritrean citizens from birth and receive permission to hold citizenship from another country.\n\nA U.S.-born person is, as a citizen, automatically subject to U.S. taxation. This is true even if both parents are non-U.S. citizens, their child holds multiple citizenships, and the family leaves the U.S. right after the child's birth and never return again. Children born to U.S. citizens living abroad are also automatically subject to U.S. taxation, even if he/she never enters the U.S. \n\nU.S. permanent residents are also subject to worldwide taxation. Worldwide taxation is often cited as a reason for U.S. citizens or permanent residents to relinquish their citizenship or residency status.\n\nIn 2015, the fee for renunciation of U.S. citizenship was raised by 422%. It went from US$450 to $2,350 and is the highest fee for the renunciation of a citizenship worldwide.\n\nCanada's citizenship law has, since 1947, generally conferred Canadian citizenship at birth to anyone born in Canada, regardless of the citizenship or immigration status of the parents. The only exception is for children born in Canada to representatives of foreign governments or international organizations. The Canadian government has considered limiting \"jus soli\" citizenship, and continues to debate the issue but has not yet changed this part of Canadian law.\n\nSome expectant Chinese parents who have already had one child travel to Canada to give birth in order to circumvent China's one-child policy, additionally acquiring Canadian citizenship for the child and applying for a passport before returning to China.\n\nA Québec birth certificate entitles a student enrolled in that province to pay university tuition at the lower in-province rate; on average this was $3760/year in 2013.\n\nMexicans who are citizens by birth are individuals that were born in Mexican territory regardless of parents' nationality or immigration status in Mexico. Individuals born on Mexican merchant or Navy ships or Mexican-registered aircraft, regardless of parents' nationality, are still considered Mexican citizens. Only naturalized Mexicans can lose their Mexican citizenship.\n\nIn the Canada–US border region, the way to a hospital in the neighboring country is sometimes shorter than to a hospital in the patient's own country. So, Canadian women sometimes give birth to their children in U.S. hospitals, and U.S. women in Canadian hospitals. These children (sometimes called \"border babies\") are usually dual citizens of both the country of their parents and their birth country.\n\nCanada has entered the medical tourism field. In comparison to U.S. health costs, medical tourism patients can save 30 to 60 percent on health costs in Canada.\n\nMexican women sometimes engage in birth tourism to the United States or Canada to give their children U.S. or Canadian citizenship.\n\nWhile some non-legal obstacles exist, Canada is one of only a few countries without legal restrictions on abortion. Regulations and accessibility vary between provinces. \n\nIn the United States, different states have different abortion laws, so that women in states with restrictive laws sometimes engage in abortion tourism, either to the U.S. states with more liberal laws or to Canada.\n\nIn Mexico, as in the United States, abortion laws vary regionally, so Mexican women may sometimes engage in abortion tourism.\n\nMost South American countries grant unconditional birthright citizenship and allow dual citizenship, but their strict abortion laws make them risky birth-tourism destinations in case of complications during the pregnancy. In Argentina, abortion is restricted to cases of maternal life, mental health, health, or rape. In Brazil, abortion is restricted to cases of maternal life, mental health, health, rape, or fetal defects. In Chile, abortion was forbidden completely, even if the pregnant woman's life is in danger until 2017. Current law allows abortion in Chile only if the mother's life is in danger, if the fetus is inviable and in rape cases.\n\nSome countries do not allow their citizens to renounce their citizenship or only if the citizenship was acquired by birth there to non-citizen parents. In Argentina, Brazil, Ecuador, Peru, and Uruguay, voting is compulsory for citizens. In Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Guatemala, Paraguay, and Venezuela, military service is mandatory.\n\nAny person born in Argentine territory acquires Argentine citizenship at birth, excepting children of persons in the service of a foreign government (e.g. foreign diplomats). This can be also applied to people born in the Falkland Islands, a disputed territory between Argentina and the United Kingdom. Argentine citizens cannot renounce their Argentine citizenship.\n\nA person born in Brazil acquires Brazilian citizenship at birth. It is said Brazilian citizens cannot renounce their Brazilian citizenship, but it is possible to renounce it through a requirement made in the Brazilian consulate if they already have acquired another citizenship voluntarily. Foreigners may be able to obtain a Brazilian citizenship by expressing their interest to live in Brazil. \n\nAny person born in Chile acquires Chilean citizenship at birth. The only two exceptions apply to children of persons in the service of a foreign government (like foreign diplomats) and to the children of foreigners who do not reside in the country. However, these children can apply to acquire Chilean nationality.\nAny person born in Paraguay territory acquires Paraguayan citizenship at birth. The only exception applies to children of persons in the service of a foreign government (like foreign diplomats)\n\nAs a non-sovereign territory, Hong Kong does not have its own citizenship; the status akin to citizenship in Hong Kong is the right of abode, also known as permanent residence. Hong Kong permanent residents regardless of citizenship are accorded all rights normally associated with citizenship, with few exceptions such as the right to a HKSAR passport and the eligibility to be elected as the chief executive which are only available to Chinese citizens with right of abode in Hong Kong.\n\nAccording to the Basic Law of Hong Kong, Chinese citizens born in Hong Kong have the right of abode in the territory. The 2001 court case \"Director of Immigration v. Chong Fung Yuen\" affirmed that this right extends to the children of mainland Chinese parents who themselves are not residents of Hong Kong. As a result, there has been an influx of mainland mothers giving birth in Hong Kong in order to obtain right of abode for the child. In 2009, 36% of babies born in Hong Kong were born to parents originating from Mainland China. This has resulted in backlash from some circles in Hong Kong to increased potential stress on the territory's social welfare net and education system. Attempts to restrict benefits from such births have been struck down by the territory's courts. A portion of the Hong Kong population has reacted negatively to the phenomenon, which has exacerbated social and cultural tensions between Hong Kong and mainland China. The situation came to a boiling point in early 2012, with Hong Kongers taking to the street to protest the influx of birth tourism from mainland China.\n\nMalta changed the principle of citizenship to jus sanguinis on 1 August 1989 in a move that also relaxed restrictions against multiple citizenships: It joined the European Union on 1 May 2004.\n\nBecause of an enormous population, India abolished \"jus soli\" on 3 December 2004. \"Jus soli\" had already been progressively weakened in India since 1987.\n\nIndia allows a form of \"overseas citizenship\", but no real dual citizenship.\n\nIrish nationality law included birth citizenship until the 27th Amendment was passed by referendum in 2004. The amendment was preceded by media reports of heavily pregnant women claiming political asylum, who expected that, even if their application was rejected, they would be allowed to remain in the country if their new baby was a citizen. Until 2004, Ireland was the last European country to grant unconditional birthright citizenship.\n\nThe constitutional court of the Dominican Republic reaffirmed in TC 168-13 that children born in the Republic from individuals that were \"in transit\" are excluded from Dominican citizenship as per the Dominican Republic's constitution. The \"in-transit\" clause includes those individuals residing in the country without legal documentation, or with expired documentation. TC 168-13 also required the civil registry to be cleaned from abnormalities going as far back as 1929, when the \"in-transit\" clause was first put in place in the constitution. The Dominican government does not consider it a retroactive decision but only a reaffirmation of a clause that has been present in every revision of the Dominican constitution as far back as 1929.\n\nIn former times, some countries (Latin American countries and Canada) advertised their policy of unconditional birthright citizenship to become more attractive for immigrants. Despite wide acceptance of dual citizenship, industrialized countries now try to protect themselves from birth tourism and uncontrollable immigration waves. \n\nSome women engage in birth tourism not to give their children a foreign citizenship, but because the other country has a better or cheaper medical system or allows procedures that are forbidden in the women's home countries (e.g. in-vitro fertilization, special tests on fetuses and embryos, or surrogacy).\n\nBut this may lead to legal problems for the babies in the home country of their future parents. For example, Germany, like 14 other EU countries, forbids surrogacy, and a baby born abroad to a foreign surrogate mother has no right to German citizenship. According to German law, the woman who gives birth to a baby is its legal mother, even if it is not her own baby, and if the foreign surrogate mother is married, her husband is regarded as the legal father.\n\nMany women travel abroad only for some procedures forbidden in their home countries, but then return to their home countries to give birth to their children (\"pregnancy tourism\").\n\n"}
{"id": "157680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157680", "title": "Bohemond II of Antioch", "text": "Bohemond II of Antioch\n\nBohemond II (1107/1108 – February 1130) was Prince of Taranto from 1111 to 1128 and Prince of Antioch from 1111/1119 to 1130. He was the son of Bohemond I, who in 1108 was forced to submit to the authority of the Byzantine Empire in the Treaty of Devol. Three years later, the infant Bohemond inherited the Principality of Taranto under the guardianship of his mother, Constance of France. The Principality of Antioch was administered by his father's nephew, Tancred, until 1111. Tancred's cousin, Roger of Salerno, managed the principality from 1111 to 1119. After Roger died in the Battle of the Field of Blood, Baldwin II of Jerusalem took over the administration of Antioch. However, he did acknowledge Bohemond's right to personally rule the principality upon reaching the age of majority.\n\nBohemond came to Antioch in autumn 1126. He launched successful military campaigns against the nearby Moslem rulers, but his conflict with Joscelin I of Courtenay enabled Imad ad-Din Zengi to secure Mosul and Aleppo. Meanwhile, Roger II of Sicily occupied the Principality of Taranto in 1128. Bohemond died fighting against Danishmend Emir Gazi Gümüshtigin during a military campaign against Cilician Armenia, and Gümüshtigin sent Bohemond's embalmed head to the Abbasid Caliph.\n\nBohemond II was the son of Bohemond I, Prince of Taranto and Antioch, and Constance of France. He was born in 1107 or 1108. In 1104, Bohemond I returned to Europe to seek military assistance against the Byzantine Empire and left his nephew Tancred in Syria to administer Antioch. Two charters show that Tancred styled himself \"prince of Antioch\" in 1108. In September of that year, Bohemond I was forced to sign the Treaty of Devol, which authorized the Byzantine Empire to annex the Principality of Antioch upon his death.\n\nBohemond I died in Apulia in 1111. Bohemond II was still a minor, so his mother took charge of the government of Taranto. The Byzantine Emperor Alexios I Komnenos sent envoys to Tancred to demand control of Antioch, but Tancred refused to obey and continued to govern the principality. Tancred died in 1112 and bequeathed Antioch to his sister's son, Roger of Salerno.\n\nRoger's legal status during his rule in Antioch is uncertain. According to William of Tyre, Tancred made Roger his successor \"with the understanding that, at the demand of Bohemond or his heirs, he should not refuse to return it,\" suggesting that Roger was simply regent for the child Bohemond. Roger adopted the title of prince, which implies that he regarded himself the ruler of Antioch in his own right. The contemporaneous Fulcher of Chartres accused Roger of depriving of \"his inheritence his own lord, the son of Bohemond [I], then living in Apulia with his mother.\" Charters issued in Bohemond's Italian domains between 1117 and 1119 emphasized that he was the son of the prince of Antioch, but did not style him prince.\n\nAfter Roger and most Antiochene noblemen perished in the Battle of the Field of Blood on 28 June 1119, Baldwin II of Jerusalem hurried to Syria to save Antioch from Ilghazi, the Artuqid ruler of Mardin. The notables of Antioch proclaimed Baldwin ruler of Antioch, but they emphasized that Antioch was Bohemond's \"rightful inheritance,\" according to Walter the Chancellor. Baldwin promised to cede Antioch to Bohemond if Bohemond came to the principality. Those who were present at the meeting agreed that Bohemond should marry Baldwin's daughter, Alice. They also decreed that Bohemond would not be entitled to reclaim grants made during his absence from the principality.\n\nBaldwin II was captured in 1123, and the burghers of Antioch sent envoys to Bohemond, urging him to come to his principality. Bohemond reached the age of majority at the age of 16. According to William of Tyre, he made an agreement with William II, Duke of Apulia, stipulating that the one who first died without issue was to will his principality to the other; however, the reliability of William's report is suspect. Alexander of Telese recorded that before leaving for Syria, Bohemond entrusted his Italian domains to the Holy See, but Romuald of Salerno said that he made Alexander, Count of Conversano, the overseer of those lands. Bohemond sailed from Otranto with a fleet of twenty-four ships in September 1126.\n\nBohemond landed at the port of St. Symeon in the Principality of Antioch in October or November. He went to Antioch to meet Baldwin II of Jerusalem, who subsequently ceded Antioch to him. Bohemond was officially installed as prince in Baldwin's presence.\n\nMatthew of Edessa portrayed Bohemond as \"a forceful character and great power.\" Badr ad-Daulah captured Kafartab shortly after Bohemond's arrival, but Bohemond quickly recaptured the fortress in early 1127. According to historian Steven Runciman, Bohemond's attack against the Munqidhites of Shaizar, which was recorded by Usama ibn Munqidh, also occurred during this period.\n\nBohemond came into conflict with Joscelin I of Edessa in 1127, although sources do not reveal the reason behind the enmity of the two Christian rulers. According to Runciman, Joscelin seized former Antiochene territories from Il-Bursuqi, governor of Mosul. Furthermore, Bohemond refused to cede Azaz to Joscelin, despite the fact that Roger of Salerno promised it to Joscelin as the dowry of his second wife, Maria of Salerno. Taking advantage of Bohemond's absence due to a campaign, Joscelin invaded Antioch with the assistance of Turkish mercenaries, plundering the villages along the frontier.\n\nBernard of Valence, Latin Patriarch of Antioch, imposed an interdict on the County of Edessa. Baldwin II of Jerusalem hurried to Syria to mediate between Bohemond and Joscelin in early 1128. Joscelin, who had become seriously ill, agreed to restore the property to Bohemond and to do homage to him. However, the conflict between Bohemond and Joscelin enabled Imad ad-Din Zengi, Il-Bursuqi's successor as governor of Mosul, to seize Aleppo without resistance on 28 June 1128.\n\nMeanwhile, Bohemond's cousin, William II of Apulia, had died without issue on 25 July 1127. Pope Honorius II tried to prevent Roger II of Sicily (the cousin of both William and Bohemond) from seizing Apulia, but Roger did not obey him. In May 1128, he invaded Bohemond's Italian principality, capturing Taranto, Otranto and Brindisi without resistance. He completed the conquest of the whole principality around 15 June.\n\nTaking advantage of the disputes between the Assassins and Taj al-Muluk Buri, atabeg of Damascus, Baldwin II of Jerusalem invaded Damascene territory and laid siege to Banias in November 1129. Bohemond and Joscelin joined Baldwin, but a heavy rainfall forced the crusaders to abandon the siege.\n\nBohemond decided to recover Anazarbus and other territories which had been lost to the Cilician Armenia. He invaded Cilicia in February 1130, traveling along the Ceyhan River. Leo I of Cilicia sought assistance from the Danishmend Emir Gazi Gümüshtigin who made a surprise attack on Bohemond's army. Bohemond and his soldiers were massacred in the battle. According to Michael the Syrian, the Turks killed Bohemond because they did not recognize him; had they recognized him, they would have saved him so they could demand a ransom from him. Gümüshtigin had Bohemond's head embalmed and sent to Al-Mustarshid, the Abbasid Caliph.\n\nBohemond's wife, Alice, was the second daughter of Baldwin II of Jerusalem and Morphia of Melitene. Their only child, Constance, was two when Bohemond died in 1130. Alice tried to secure the regency for Constance for herself, but the Antiochene noblemen preferred her father, Baldwin II of Jerusalem. After Bohemond's death, Roger II of Sicily laid claim to Antioch, but he could never assert it against Constance.\n\n"}
{"id": "19307743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19307743", "title": "Caminalcules", "text": "Caminalcules\n\nCaminalcules (from Camin and animalcule) are a fictive group of animal-like life forms invented by Professor Joseph H. Camin (University of Kansas) as a tool for understanding phylogenetics. Interested in how taxonomists group species, he designed these creatures to show an evolutionary pattern of divergence and diversification in morphology. There are 29 recent 'species' of Caminalcules and 48 fossil forms.\n\nThe Caminalcules first appeared in print in the journal \"Systematic Zoology\" (now \"Systematic Biology\") in 1983, four years after Camin's death in 1979. Robert R. Sokal published four papers, the first showing the full set of Caminalcules and the second using them to compare methods in numerical taxonomy. They have been used in biology education to teach the principles of systematics and evolution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5389096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5389096", "title": "Child cannibalism", "text": "Child cannibalism\n\nChild cannibalism or fetal cannibalism is the act of eating a child or fetus.\n\nControversy has been sparked when the performance artist Zhu Yu claimed that he prepared, cooked and ate real human bodies, including fetuses, as an artistic performance. The performance was called \"Eating People\" he claimed it was to protest against cannibalism. It was intended as \"shock art\". The Chinese Ministry of Culture cited a menace to social order and the spiritual health of the Chinese people, banned exhibitions involving culture, animal abuse, corpses, and overt violence and sexuality and Zhu Yu was prosecuted for his deeds. \n\nSnopes and other urban legend sites have said the \"fetus\" used by Zhu Yu was most likely constructed from a duck's body and a doll head. Other images from another art exhibit were falsely circulated along with Zhu Yu's photographs and claimed to be evidence of fetus soup.\n\nCritics see the propagation of these rumors as a form of blood libel, or accusing one's enemy of eating children, and accuse countries of using this as a political lever.\n\nCapsule pills filled with human baby flesh in the form of powder were seized by South Koreans from ethnic Koreans living in China, who had tried to smuggle them into South Korea and consume the capsules themselves or distribute them to other ethnic Korean citizens of China living in South Korea.\n\nJonathan Swift's 1729 satiric article \"A Modest Proposal for Preventing the Children of Poor People in Ireland from Being a Burden to Their Parents or Country, and for Making Them Beneficial to the Public\" proposed the utilization of an economic system based on poor people selling their children to be eaten, claiming that this would benefit the economy, family values, and general happiness of Ireland. The target of Swift's satire is the rationalism of modern economics, and the growth of rationalistic modes of thinking at the expense of more traditional human values.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1093105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1093105", "title": "Cicely Saunders", "text": "Cicely Saunders\n\nDame Cicely Mary Saunders, OM DBE FRCS FRCP FRCN (22 June 1918 – 14 July 2005) was an English Anglican nurse, social worker, physician and writer, involved with many international universities. She is best known for her role in the birth of the hospice movement, emphasising the importance of palliative care in modern medicine.\n\nSaunders began studying politics, philosophy, and economics at St Anne's College, Oxford in 1938. In 1940, she decided to become a nurse and trained at Nightingale School of Nursing based at St Thomas's Hospital from 1940-44. Returning to St Anne's College after a back injury in 1944, she took a BA in 1945, qualifying as a medical social worker in 1947 and eventually trained as a doctor at St Thomas's Hospital Medical School (now merged to form King's College London GKT School of Medical Education) and qualified MBBS in 1957.\n\nIn 1948 she fell in love with a patient, David Tasma, a Polish-Jewish refugee who, having escaped from the Warsaw ghetto, worked as a waiter; he was dying of cancer. He bequeathed her £500 (equivalent to £14,470.24 in 2018) to be \"a window in your home\". This donation, which helped germinate the idea which would become St Christopher's, is memorialized with a plain sheet of glass at the hospice's entrance. While training for social work, she holidayed with some Christians, and was converted to Christianity. In the late 1940s, Saunders began working part-time at St Luke's Home for the Dying Poor in Bayswater, and it was partly this which, in 1951, led her to begin study to become a physician.\n\nA year later, she began working at St Joseph's Hospice, a Catholic establishment, in Hackney, East London, where she would remain for seven years, researching pain control. There she met a second Pole, Antoni Michniewicz, a patient with whom she fell in love. His death, in 1960, coincided with the death of Saunders's father, and another friend, and put her into what she later called a state of \"pathological grieving\". But she had already decided to set up her own hospice, serving cancer patients, and said that Michniewicz's death had shown her that \"as the body becomes weaker, so the spirit becomes stronger\".\n\nSaunders claimed that after 11 years of thinking about the project, she had drawn up a comprehensive plan and sought finance after reading Psalm 37: \"Commit thy way unto the Lord; trust also in him; and he shall bring it to pass.\" She succeeded in engaging the support of Albertine Winner, the deputy chief medical officer at the Ministry of Health at the time. Later, Dame Albertine Winner served as Chairwoman of St. Christopher's. In 1965, Cicely Saunders was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire.\n\nIn 1967, St Christopher's Hospice, the world's first purpose-built hospice, was established. The hospice was founded on the principles of combining teaching and clinical research, expert pain and symptom relief with holistic care to meet the physical, social, psychological and spiritual needs of its patients and those of their family and friends. It was a place where patients could garden, write, talk – and get their hair done. There was always, Saunders would emphasize, so much more to be done, and she worked in this spirit as its medical director from 1967, and then, from 1985, as its chairperson, a post she occupied until 2000, when she became president. \n\nIn 1977, Cicely Saunders was awarded an honorary Lambeth doctorate by the Archbishop of Canterbury. In 1979, Queen Elizabeth II honoured Cicely Saunders with the title Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE). In 1981 Dame Cicely was awarded the Templeton Prize, the world's richest annual prize awarded to an individual. In 1989, she was appointed to the Order of Merit by Queen Elizabeth II. In 2001 she received the world's largest humanitarian award – the Conrad N. Hilton Humanitarian Prize, worth £700,000 – on behalf of St Christopher's.\n\nOn 25 April 2005, another portrait of Saunders was unveiled at the National Portrait Gallery. Dame Cicely was one of the subjects of Prime Minister Gordon Brown's book: \"\". She was a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, a Fellow of the Royal College of Nursing and a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons.\n\nSt Christopher's includes an Arts Team that provides Art Therapy, Music Therapy, Drama Therapy and Community Arts. The work of the Arts Team is reflected in two publications: End of Life Care: A Guide for Therapists, Artists and Arts Therapists and The Creative Arts in Palliative Care.\n\nIn 1963, three years after the death of Michniewicz, Saunders became familiar with the paintings of Marian Bohusz-Szyszko, a Polish émigré and professor with a degree in fine art. They met and became friends, and she became a patron of his art. A substantial amount of his work is hung at St Christopher's Hospice. Bohusz-Szyszko had a long-estranged wife in Poland, whom he supported, and was a devout Roman Catholic. In 1980, five years after the death of his wife, he married Saunders. She was 61 and he was 79. Bohusz-Szyszko died in 1995, at the age of 94, spending his last days at St Christopher's Hospice.\n\nIn 2002, Saunders co-founded a new charitable organisation, Cicely Saunders International. She was the founding trustee and president. The charity's mission is to promote research to improve the care and treatment of all patients with progressive illness and to make high-quality palliative care available to everyone who needs it – hospice, hospital or home. The charity has co-created the world's first purpose built institute of palliative care – the Cicely Saunders Institute, and supported research to improve the management of symptoms such as breathlessness, action to meet more closely patient and family choice in palliative care and better support for older people.\n\nSaunders was instrumental in the history of UK medical ethics. She was an advisor to Andrew Mephem whose report led the Rev. Edward Shotter to set up the London Medical Group, a forerunner of the Society for the Study of Medical Ethics, later the Institute of Medical Ethics. She gave one of the first LMG lectures on the subject of pain, developing the talk into \"The Nature and Management of Terminal pain\" by 1972.\n\nThis went on to be one of the most often repeated and requested lectures of the LMG and other such Medical Groups that sprung up around Great Britain, where it was often given as their inaugural lecture. Her talk on the care of the dying patient was printed by the LMG in its series 'Documentation in Medical Ethics, a forerunner of the Journal of Medical Ethics.\n\nSaunders introduced the idea of \"total pain\", which included physical, emotional, social, and spiritual distress.\n\nSaunders developed breast cancer but still continued to work, which led to her death at age 87 in 2005, at St. Christopher's Hospice, the hospice she had founded. To mark what would have been her 100th birthday, Google honoured her with a Google Doodle.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33333233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33333233", "title": "Common Assessment Framework", "text": "Common Assessment Framework\n\nThe Common Assessment Framework (CAF) is the common European quality management instrument for the public sector. It is a free tool to assist public sector organisations to improve their performance. The CAF helps the organisations to perform a self-assessment with the involvement of all staff, to develop an improvement plan based on the results of the self-assessment and to implement the improvement actions. The model \"is based on the premise that excellent results in organisational performance, citizens/customers, people and society are achieved through leadership driving strategy and planning, people, partnerships and resources, and processes. It looks at the organisation from different angles at the same time, the holistic approach of organisation performance analysis.\" On 7 September 2011, 2382 public sector organisations from 43 different nationalities or from the EU institutions were registered as CAF users in the CAF Database.\n\nThe CAF Model is derived from the EFQM Excellence Model and shares the same 9 criteria.\n\nIn 1998, discussions amongst the Directors-General of the Public Administration of the EU Member States in the European Public Administration Network (EUPAN) revealed that there was a need for a common European quality framework that could be used across the public sector as a tool for organisational self-assessment. As a consequence of this, it was decided that this quality framework should be jointly developed under the aegis of the Innovative Public Services Group (IPSG), an informal working group of national experts set up by the Directors General of the EUPAN network. The first version of the CAF was then developed in 1998 and 1999 by the IPSG and with the support of the European Foundation of Quality Management (EFQM), the Speyer Academy (which organised the Speyer Quality Award for the public sector in the German-speaking European countries) and the European Institute of Public Administration (EIPA).\n\nThe CAF model was launched in 2000 at the 1st European Quality Conference in Lisbon. A European CAF Resource Centre was established in 2001 at EIPA in Maastricht to serve as a centre of expertise in CAF implementation, to provide training and consultancy, to support the Member States in disseminating the CAF and to further develop the model. The first two years of CAF were evaluated with a study on the use of the CAF. The results led to the CAF 2002, an improved version of the model, which was presented at the 2nd European Quality Conference in Denmark. In 2005, a new study on the use of the CAF was conducted. A number of areas in the CAF needed further improvement: increase the coherence and simplicity of the model, increase the user friendliness by improving the examples and the glossary, develop a more fine‐tuned scoring system for certain users, and broaden the quality approach with directives for the improvement action plans and guidelines for bench learning. The CAF was improved for the second time in 2006. The new CAF 2006 was presented at the 4th European Quality Conference in Finland. In 2009 and 2010 followed a procedure for external feedback on the CAF implementation in the organisation and a tailor-made version of the CAF for the education sector.\n\nUntil today, the CAF 2006 is the most recent version of the CAF model. A new revision of the model is planned for 2012 and will be based on the results of a study conducted during the first half of 2011.\n\nThe CAF has four main purposes:\n\nThe Common Assessment Framework is based on eight principles, \"the principles of excellence\". These eight principles are: \n\nThe CAF has nine criteria representing the main aspects requiring consideration in any organisational analysis. There are five enabler-criteria (Leadership, Strategy & Planning, People, Partnerships & Resources and Processes) and four result-criteria (Citizen/Customer Oriented Results, People Results, Society Results and Key Performance Results). The Enablers cover what an organisation does. The Results cover what an organisation achieves. By performing a self-assessment with the CAF, public sector organisations can find areas for improvement in the functioning of the organisation and in pursuing the desired results.\n\nThe CAF is especially designed for the public sector. As a matter of a fact, this focus is what distinguishes the CAF from the EFQM Excellence model.\n\nThe 9 criteria of the CAF model are further broken down in 28 sub-criteria. These sub-criteria identify the main issues that need to be considered when assessing a public sector organisation. Each sub-criterion is illustrated by a series of examples that explain its content.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4248526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4248526", "title": "Computational aeroacoustics", "text": "Computational aeroacoustics\n\nComputational aeroacoustics is a branch of aeroacoustics that aims to analyze the generation of noise by turbulent flows through numerical methods.\n\nThe origin of Computational Aeroacoustics can only very likely be dated back to the middle of the 1980s, with a publication of Hardin and Lamkin who claimed, that \n\"\"[...] the field of computational fluid mechanics has been advancing rapidly in the past few years and now offers the hope that \"computational aeroacoustics,\" where noise is computed directly from a first principles determination of continuous velocity and vorticity fields, might be possible, [...]\"\"\n\nLater in a publication 1986 the same authors introduced the abbreviation CAA. The term was initially used for a low Mach number approach (Expansion of the acoustic perturbation field about an incompressible flow) as it is described under EIF. Later in the beginning 1990s the growing CAA community picked up the term and extensively used it for any kind of numerical method describing the noise radiation from an aeroacoustic source or the propagation of sound waves in an inhomogeneous flow field. Such numerical methods can be far field integration methods (e.g. FW-H) as well as direct numerical methods optimized for the solutions (e.g.) of a mathematical model describing the aerodynamic noise generation and/or propagation. With the rapid development of the computational resources this field has undergone spectacular progress during the last three decades.\n\nThe compressible Navier-Stokes equation describes both the flow field, and the aerodynamically generated acoustic field. Thus both may be solved for directly. This requires very high numerical resolution due to the large differences in the length scale present between the acoustic variables and the flow variables. It is computationally very demanding and unsuitable for any commercial use.\n\nIn this approach the computational domain is split into different regions, such that the governing acoustic or flow field can be solved with different equations and numerical techniques. This would involve using two different numerical solvers, first a dedicated Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) tool and secondly an acoustic solver. The flow field is then used to calculate the acoustical sources. Both steady state (RANS, SNGR (Stochastic Noise Generation and Radiation), ...) and transient (DNS, LES, DES, URANS, ...) fluid field solutions can be used. These acoustical sources are provided to the second solver which calculates the acoustical propagation. Acoustic propagation can be calculated using one of the following methods :\n\nThere are multiple methods, which are based on a known solution of the acoustic wave equation to compute the acoustic far field of a sound source. Because a general solution for wave propagation in the free space can be written as an integral over all sources, these solutions are summarized as integral methods. The acoustic sources have to be known from some different source (e.g. a Finite Element simulation of a moving mechanical system or a fluid dynamic CFD simulation of the sources in a moving medium). The integral is taken over all sources at the retarded time (source time), which is the time at that the source is sent out the signal, which arrives now at a given observer position. Common to all integral methods is, that they cannot account for changes in the speed of sound or the average flow speed between source and observer position as they use a theoretical solution of the wave equation. When applying Lighthill's theory to the Navier Stokes equations of Fluid mechanics, one obtains volumetric sources, whereas the other two analogies provide the far field information based on a surface integral. Acoustic analogies can be very efficient and fast, as the known solution of the wave equation is used. One far away observer takes as long as one very close observer. Common for the application of all analogies is the integration over a large number of contributions, which can lead to additional numerical problems (addition/subtraction of many large numbers with result close to zero.) Furthermore, when applying an integral method, usually the source domain is limited somehow. While in theory the sources outside have to be zero, the application can not always fulfill this condition. Especially in connection with CFD simulations, this leads to large cut-off errors. By damping the source gradually to zero at the exit of the domain or adding some additional terms to correct this end-effect, these cut-off errors can be minimized.\n\nAlso called 'Acoustic Analogy'. To obtain Lighthill's aeroacoustic analogy the governing Navier-Stokes equations are rearranged. The left hand side is a wave operator, which is applied to the density perturbation or pressure perturbation respectively. The right hand side is identified as the acoustic sources in a fluid flow, then. As Lighthill's analogy follows directly from the Navier-Stokes equations without simplification, all sources are present. Some of the sources are then identified as turbulent or laminar noise. The far-field sound pressure is then given in terms of a volume integral over the domain containing the sound source. The source term always includes physical sources and such sources, which describe the propagation in an inhomogeneous medium.\n\nThe wave operator of Lighthill's analogy is limited to constant flow conditions outside the source zone. No variation of density, speed of sound and Mach number is allowed. Different mean flow conditions are identified as strong sources with opposite sign by the analogy, once an acoustic wave passes it. Part of the acoustic wave is removed by one source and a new wave is radiated to fix the different wave speed. This often leads very large volumes with strong sources. Several modifications to Lighthill's original theory have been proposed to account for the sound-flow interaction or other effects. To improve Lighthill's analogy different quantities inside the wave operator as well as different wave operators are considered by following analogies. All of them obtain modified source terms, which sometimes allow a more clear sight on the \"real\" sources. The acoustic analogies of Lilley, Pierce, Howe and Möhring are only some examples for aeroacoustic analogies based on Lighthill's ideas. All acoustic analogies require a volume integration over a source term.\n\nThe major difficulty with the acoustic analogy, however, is that the sound source is not compact in supersonic flow. Errors could be encountered in calculating the sound field, unless the computational domain could be extended in the downstream direction beyond the location where the sound source has completely decayed. Furthermore, an accurate account of the retarded time-effect requires keeping a long record of the time-history of the converged solutions of the sound source, which again represents a storage problem. For realistic problems, the required storage can reach the order of 1 terabyte of data.\n\nKirchhoff and Helmholtz showed, that the radiation of sound from a limited source region can be described by enclosing this source region by a control surface - the so-called Kichhoff surface. Then the sound field inside or outside the surface, where no sources are allowed and the wave operator on the left hand side applies, can be produced as a superposition of monopoles and dipoles on the surface. The theory follows directly from the wave equation. The source strength of monopoles and dipoles on the surface can be calculated if the normal velocity (for monopoles) and the pressure (for dipoles) on the surface are known respectively. A modification of the method allows even to calculate the pressure on the surface based on the normal velocity only. The normal velocity could be given by a FE-simulation of a moving structure for instance. However, the modification to avid the acoustic pressure on the surface to be known leads to problems, when considering an enclosed volume at its resonant frequencies, which is a major issue of the implementations of their method. The Kirchhoff integral method finds for instance application in Boundary element methods (BEM). A non-zero flow velocity is accounted by considering a moving frame of reference with the outer flow speed, in which the acoustic wave propagation takes place. Repetitive applications of the method can account for obstacles. First the sound field on the surface of the obstacle is calculated and then the obstacle is introduced by adding sources on its surface to cancel the normal velocity on the surface of the obstacle. Variations of the average flow field (speed of sound, density and velocity) can be taken into account by a similar method (e.g. dual reciprocity BEM).\n\nThe integration method of Ffowcs Williams and Hawkings is based on Lighthill's acoustic analogy. However, by some mathematical modifications under the assumption of a limited source region, which is enclosed by a control surface (FW-H surface), the volume integral is avoided. Surface integrals over monopole and dipole sources remain. Different from the Kirchhoff method, these sources follow directly from the Navier-Stokes equations through Lighthill's analogy. Sources outside the FW-H surface can be accounted by an additional volume integral over quadrupole sources following from the Lighthill Tensor. However, when considering the same assumptions as Kirchhoffs linear theory, the FW-H method equals the Kirchhoff method.\n\nConsidering small disturbances superimposed on a uniform mean flow of density formula_1, pressure formula_2 and velocity on x-axis formula_3, the Euler equations for a two dimensional model is presented as:\n\nwhere\n\nwhere formula_6, formula_7, formula_8 and formula_9 are the acoustic field variables, formula_10 the ratio of specific heats formula_11, for air at 20 °C formula_12, and the source term formula_13 on the right-side represents distributed unsteady sources. \nThe application of LEE can be found in engine noise studies.\n\nFor high Mach number flows in compressible regimes, the acoustic propagation may be influenced by non-linearities and the LEE may no longer be the appropriate mathematical model.\n\nA Fourier pseudospectral time-domain method can be applied to wave propagation problems pertinent to computational aeroacoustics. The original algorithm of the Fourier pseudo spectral time domain method works for periodical problems without the interaction with physical boundaries. A slip wall boundary condition, combined with buffer zone technique to solve some non-periodical aeroacoustic problems has been proposed. Compared to other computational methods, pseudospectral method is preferred for its high-order accuracy.\n\nExpansion about Incompressible Flow\n\nAcoustic Perturbation Equations\n\nRefer to the paper \"Acoustic Perturbation Equations Based on Flow Decomposition via Source Filtering\" by R.Ewert and W.Schroder.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "681962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=681962", "title": "Coupling constant", "text": "Coupling constant\n\nIn physics, a coupling constant or gauge coupling parameter is a number that determines the strength of the force exerted in an interaction. Usually, the Lagrangian or the Hamiltonian of a system describing an interaction can be separated into a \"kinetic part\" and an \"interaction part\". The coupling constant determines the strength of the interaction part with respect to the kinetic part, or between two sectors of the interaction part. For example, the electric charge of a particle is a coupling constant that characterizes an interaction with two charge-carrying fields and one photon field (hence the common Feynman diagram with two arrows and one wavy line). Since photons carry electromagnetism, this coupling constant determines how strongly electrons feel such a force and has its value fixed by experiment.\n\nA coupling constant plays an important role in dynamics. For example, one often sets up hierarchies of approximation based on the importance of various coupling constants. In the motion of a large lump of magnetized iron, the magnetic forces may be more important than the gravitational forces because of the relative magnitudes of the coupling constants. However, in classical mechanics one usually makes these decisions directly by comparing forces.\n\nCoupling constants arise naturally in a quantum field theory. A special role is played in relativistic quantum theories by coupling constants that are dimensionless; i.e., are pure numbers. An example of a dimensionless constant is the fine-structure constant,\nwhere formula_2 is the charge of an electron, formula_3 is the permittivity of free space, formula_4 is the reduced Planck constant and formula_5 is the speed of light. This constant is proportional to the square of the coupling strength of the charge of an electron to the electromagnetic field.\n\nIn a non-Abelian gauge theory, the gauge coupling parameter, formula_6, appears in the Lagrangian as\n(where formula_8 is the gauge field tensor) in some conventions. In another widely used convention, formula_8 is rescaled so that the coefficient of the kinetic term is 1/4 and formula_6 appears in the covariant derivative. This should be understood to be similar to a dimensionless version of the elementary charge defined as\n\nIn a quantum field theory with a dimensionless coupling constant \"g\", if \"g\" is much less than 1 then the theory is said to be \"weakly coupled\". In this case it is well described by an expansion in powers of \"g\", called perturbation theory. If the coupling constant is of order one or larger, the theory is said to be \"strongly coupled\". An example of the latter is the hadronic theory of strong interactions (which is why it is called strong in the first place). In such a case non-perturbative methods have to be used to investigate the theory.\n\nOne can probe a quantum field theory at short times or distances by changing the wavelength or momentum, k, of the probe one uses. With a high frequency (i.e., short time) probe, one sees virtual particles taking part in every process. This apparent violation of the conservation of energy can be understood heuristically by examining the uncertainty relation\nwhich allows such violations at short times. The previous remark only applies to some formulations of quantum field theory, in particular, canonical quantization in the interaction picture. In other formulations, the same event is described by \"virtual\" particles going off the mass shell. Such processes renormalize the coupling and make it dependent on the energy scale, formula_13, at which one observes the coupling. The dependence of a coupling \"g\"(μ) on the energy-scale is known as running of the coupling. The theory of the running of couplings is given by the renormalization group, though it should be kept in mind that the renormalization group is a more general concept describing any sort of scale invariance in a physical system (see the full article for details).\n\nIn quantum field theory, a \"beta function\" β(\"g\") encodes the running of a coupling parameter, \"g\". It is defined by the relation\nwhere μ is the energy scale of the given physical process. If the beta functions of a quantum field theory vanish, then the theory is scale-invariant.\n\nThe coupling parameters of a quantum field theory can flow even if the corresponding classical field theory is scale-invariant. In this case, the non-zero beta function tells us that the classical scale-invariance is anomalous.\n\nIf a beta function is positive, the corresponding coupling increases with increasing energy. An example is quantum electrodynamics (QED), where one finds by using perturbation theory that the beta function is positive. In particular, at low energies, , whereas at the scale of the Z boson, about 90 GeV, one measures .\n\nMoreover, the perturbative beta function tells us that the coupling continues to increase, and QED becomes \"strongly coupled\" at high energy. In fact the coupling apparently becomes infinite at some finite energy. This phenomenon was first noted by Lev Landau, and is called the Landau pole. However, one cannot expect the perturbative beta function to give accurate results at strong coupling, and so it is likely that the Landau pole is an artifact of applying perturbation theory in a situation where it is no longer valid. The true scaling behaviour of formula_15 at large energies is not known.\n\nIn non-Abelian gauge theories, the beta function can be negative, as first found by Frank Wilczek, David Politzer and David Gross. An example of this is the beta function for quantum chromodynamics (QCD), and as a result the QCD coupling decreases at high energies.\n\nFurthermore, the coupling decreases logarithmically, a phenomenon known as asymptotic freedom (the discovery of which was awarded with the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2004). The coupling decreases approximately as\nwhere \"β\" is a constant computed by Wilczek, Gross and Politzer.\n\nConversely, the coupling increases with decreasing energy. This means that the coupling becomes large at low energies, and one can no longer rely on perturbation theory.\n\nIn quantum chromodynamics (QCD), the quantity Λ is called the QCD scale. The value is\nThis value is to be used at a scale above the bottom quark mass of about 5 GeV. The meaning of Λ is given in the article on dimensional transmutation.\n\nThe proton-to-electron mass ratio is primarily determined by the QCD scale.\n\nA remarkably different situation exists in string theory since it includes a dilaton. An analysis of the string spectrum shows that this field must be present, either in the bosonic string or the NS-NS sector of the superstring. Using vertex operators, it can be seen that exciting this field is equivalent to adding a term to the action where a scalar field couples to the Ricci scalar. This field is therefore an entire function worth of coupling constants. These coupling constants are not pre-determined, adjustable, or universal parameters; they depend on space and time in a way that is determined dynamically. Sources that describe the string coupling as if it were fixed are usually referring to the vacuum expectation value. This is free to have any value in the bosonic theory where there is no superpotential.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "196020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196020", "title": "Crocodilia", "text": "Crocodilia\n\nCrocodilia (or Crocodylia) is an order of mostly large, predatory, semiaquatic archosaurian reptiles, known as crocodilians. They first appeared 83.5 million years ago in the Late Cretaceous period (Campanian stage) and are the closest living relatives of birds, as the two groups are the only known survivors of the Archosauria. Members of the order's total group, the clade Pseudosuchia, appeared about 250 million years ago in the Early Triassic period, and diversified during the Mesozoic era. The order Crocodilia includes the true crocodiles (family Crocodylidae), the alligators and caimans (family Alligatoridae), and the gharial and false gharial (family Gavialidae). Although the term 'crocodiles' is sometimes used to refer to all of these, crocodilians is a less ambiguous vernacular term for members of this group.\n\nLarge, solidly built, lizard-like reptiles, crocodilians have long flattened snouts, laterally compressed tails, and eyes, ears, and nostrils at the top of the head. They swim well and can move on land in a \"high walk\" and a \"low walk\", while smaller species are even capable of galloping. Their skin is thick and covered in non-overlapping scales. They have conical, peg-like teeth and a powerful bite. They have a four-chambered heart and, somewhat like birds, a unidirectional looping system of airflow within the lungs, but like other non-avian reptiles they are ectotherms.\n\nCrocodilians are found mainly in lowlands in the tropics, but alligators also live in the southeastern United States and the Yangtze River in China. They are largely carnivorous, the various species feeding on animals such as fish, crustaceans, molluscs, birds, and mammals; some species like the Indian gharial are specialised feeders, while others like the saltwater crocodile have generalised diets. Crocodilians are typically solitary and territorial, though cooperative feeding does occur. During breeding, dominant males try to monopolise available females. Females lay eggs in holes or in mounds and, unlike most other reptiles, care for their hatched young.\n\nEight species of crocodilians are known to have attacked humans. The largest number of attacks comes from the Nile crocodile. Humans are the greatest threat to crocodilian populations through activities that include hunting and habitat destruction, but farming of crocodilians has greatly reduced unlawful trading in wild skins. Artistic and literary representations of crocodilians have appeared in human cultures around the world since at least Ancient Egypt. The earliest known mention of the story that crocodiles weep for their victims was in the 9th century; it was later spread by Sir John Mandeville in 1400 and then by William Shakespeare in the late 16th century and early 17th century.\n\nCrocodilia and Crocodylia have been used interchangeably for decades starting with Schmidt's redescription of the group from the formerly defunct term Loricata. Schmidt used the older term Crocodilia, based on Owen's original name for the group. Shortly after, Wermuth opted for Crocodylia as the proper name for this redescribed group, basing it on the type genus \"Crocodylus\" (Laurenti, 1768). Dundee—in a revision of many reptilian and amphibian names—argued strongly for Crocodylia to be the spelling for the group. However, it was not until the advent of cladistics and phylogenetic nomenclature that a more solid justification for assuming one spelling over the other was proposed.\n\nPrior to 1988, Crocodilia/Crocodylia was a group that encompassed the modern-day animals (the crown group) as well as their more distant relatives now in the larger groups called Crocodylomorpha and Pseudosuchia. Under its current definition Crocodylia is restricted to only the most recent ancestor of today's modern-day crocodilians (alligators, crocodiles, and gharials). This distinction is more important for paleontologists studying crocodilian evolution. As such, the alternate spellings Crocodilia and Crocodylia are still used interchangeably in the neontological literature.\n\nCrocodilia appears to be a Latinizing of the Greek κροκόδειλος (\"crocodeilos\"), which means both lizard and Nile crocodile. Crocodylia, as coined by Wermuth, in regards to the genus \"Crocodylus\" appears to be derived from the ancient Greek κρόκη (\"kroke\")—meaning shingle or pebble—and δρîλος or δρεîλος (\"dr(e)ilos\") for \"worm\". The name may refer to the animal's habit of basking on the pebbled shores of the Nile.\n\nCrocodilians range in size from the \"Paleosuchus\" and \"Osteolaemus\" species, which reach , to the saltwater crocodile, which reaches and weighs up to , though some prehistoric species such as the late Cretaceous \"Deinosuchus\" were even larger at up to about and . They tend to be sexually dimorphic, with males much larger than females. Though there is diversity in snout and tooth shape, all crocodilian species have essentially the same body morphology. They have solidly built, lizard-like bodies with elongated, flattened snouts and laterally compressed tails. Their limbs are reduced in size; the front feet have five digits with little or no webbing, and the hind feet have four webbed digits and a rudimentary fifth. The skeleton is somewhat typical of tetrapods, although the skull, pelvis and ribs are specialised; in particular, the cartilaginous processes of the ribs allow the thorax to collapse during diving and the structure of the pelvis can accommodate large masses of food, or more air in the lungs. Both sexes have a cloaca, a single chamber and outlet at the base of the tail into which the intestinal, urinary and genital tracts open. It houses the penis in males and the clitoris in females. The crocodilian penis is permanently erect and relies on cloacal muscles for eversion and elastic ligaments and a tendon for recoil. The testes or ovaries are located near the kidneys.\n\nThe eyes, ears and nostrils of crocodilians are at the top of the head. This allows them to stalk their prey with most of their bodies underwater. Crocodilians possess a \"tapetum lucidum\" which enhances vision in low light. While eyesight is fairly good in air, it is significantly weakened underwater. The fovea in other vertebrates is usually circular, but in crocodiles it is a horizontal bar of tightly packed receptors across the middle of the retina. When the animal completely submerges, the nictitating membranes cover its eyes. In addition, glands on the nictitating membrane secrete a salty lubricant that keeps the eye clean. When a crocodilian leaves the water and dries off, this substance is visible as \"tears\".\n\nThe ears are adapted for hearing both in air and underwater, and the eardrums are protected by flaps that can be opened or closed by muscles. Crocodilians have a wide hearing range, with sensitivity comparable to most birds and many mammals. They have only one olfactory chamber and the vomeronasal organ is absent in the adults indicating all olfactory perception is limited to the olfactory system. Behavioural and olfactometer experiments indicate that crocodiles detect both air-borne and water-soluble chemicals and use their olfactory system for hunting. When above water, crocodiles enhance their ability to detect volatile odorants by gular pumping, a rhythmic movement of the floor of the pharynx. The well-developed trigeminal nerve allows them to detect vibrations in the water (such as those made by potential prey). The tongue cannot move freely but is held in place by a folded membrane. While the brain of a crocodilian is fairly small, it is capable of greater learning than most reptiles. Though they lack the vocal folds of mammals and the syrinx of birds, crocodilians can produce vocalisations by vibrating three flaps in the larynx. They appear to have lost their pineal organ, but still show signs of melatonin rhythms.\n\nCrocodilians are excellent swimmers. During aquatic locomotion, the muscular tail undulates from side to side to drive the animal through the water while the limbs are held close to the body to reduce drag. When the animal needs to stop, steer, or manoeuvre in a different direction, the limbs are splayed out. Crocodilians generally cruise slowly on the surface or underwater with gentle sinuous movements of the tail, but when pursued or when chasing prey they can move rapidly. Crocodilians are less well-adapted for moving on land, and are unusual among vertebrates in having two different means of terrestrial locomotion: the \"high walk\" and the \"low walk\". Their ankle joints flex in a different way from those of other reptiles, a feature they share with some early archosaurs. One of the upper row of ankle bones, the astragalus, moves with the tibia and fibula. The other, the calcaneum, is functionally part of the foot, and has a socket into which a peg from the astragalus fits. The result is that the legs can be held almost vertically beneath the body when on land, and the foot can swivel during locomotion with a twisting movement at the ankle.\nThe high walk of crocodilians, with the belly and most of the tail being held off the ground, is unique among living reptiles. It somewhat resembles the walk of a mammal, with the same sequence of limb movements: left fore, right hind, right fore, left hind. The low walk is similar to the high walk, but without the body being raised, and is quite different from the sprawling walk of salamanders and lizards. The animal can change from one walk to the other instantaneously, but the high walk is the usual means of locomotion on land. The animal may push its body up and use this form immediately, or may take one or two strides of low walk before raising the body higher. Unlike most other land vertebrates, when crocodilians increase their pace of travel they increase the speed at which the lower half of each limb (rather than the whole leg) swings forward; by this means, stride length increases while stride duration decreases.\n\nThough typically slow on land, crocodilians can produce brief bursts of speed, and some can run at for short distances. A fast entry into water from a muddy bank can be effected by plunging to the ground, twisting the body from side to side and splaying out the limbs. In some small species such as the freshwater crocodile, a running gait can progress to a bounding gallop. This involves the hind limbs launching the body forward and the fore limbs subsequently taking the weight. Next, the hind limbs swing forward as the spine flexes dorso-ventrally, and this sequence of movements is repeated. During terrestrial locomotion, a crocodilian can keep its back and tail straight, since the scales are attached to the vertebrae by muscles. Whether on land or in water, crocodilians can jump or leap by pressing their tails and hind limbs against the substrate and then launching themselves into the air.\n\nThe snout shape of crocodilians varies between species. Crocodiles may have either broad or slender snouts, while alligators and caimans have mostly broad ones. Gharials have snouts that are extremely elongated. The muscles that close the jaws are much more massive and powerful than the ones that open them, and a crocodilian's jaws can be held shut by a person fairly easily. Conversely, the jaws are extremely difficult to pry open. The powerful closing muscles attach at the median of portion of the lower jaw and the jaw hinge attaches to the atlanto-occipital joint, allowing the animal to open its mouth fairly wide.\nCrocodilians have some of the strongest bite forces in the animal kingdom. In a study published in 2003, an American alligator's bite force was measured at up to . In a 2012 study, a saltwater crocodile's bite force was measured even higher, at . This study also found no correlation between bite force and snout shape. Nevertheless, the gharial's extremely slender jaws are relatively weak and built more for quick jaw closure. The bite force of \"Deinosuchus\" may have measured , even greater than that of theropod dinosaurs like \"Tyrannosaurus\".\n\nCrocodilian teeth vary from blunt and dull to sharp and needle-like. Broad-snouted species have teeth that vary in size, while those of slender-snouted species are more uniform. The teeth of crocodiles and gharials tend to be more visible than those of alligators and caimans when the jaws are closed. The easiest way to distinguish crocodiles from alligators is by looking at their jaw line. The teeth on the lower jaw of an alligator fit into sockets in the upper jaw, so only the upper teeth are visible when the mouth is closed. The teeth on the lower jaw of a crocodile fit into grooves on the outside of the top jaw making both the upper and lower teeth visible when the mouth is closed.\n\nCrocodilians are polyphyodonts and able to replace each of their approximately 80 teeth up to 50 times in their 35 to 75-year lifespan. They are the only non-mammalian vertebrates with tooth sockets. Next to each full-grown tooth there is a small replacement tooth and an odontogenic stem cell in the dental lamina in standby, which can be activated when required. Tooth replacement slows significantly and eventually stops as the animal grows old.\n\nThe skin of crocodilians is thick and cornified, and is clad in non-overlapping scales known as scutes, arranged in regular rows and patterns. These scales are continually being produced by cell division in the underlying layer of the epidermis, the stratum germinativum, and the surface of individual scutes sloughs off periodically. The outer surface of the scutes consists of the relatively rigid beta-keratin while the hinge region between the scutes contains only the more pliable alpha-keratin.\n\nMany of the scutes are strengthened by bony plates known as osteoderms, which are the same size and shape as the superficial scales but grow beneath them. They are most numerous on the back and neck of the animal and may form a protective armour. They often have prominent, lumpy ridges and are covered in hard-wearing beta-keratin. Most of the skin on the head is fused to the skull. The skin on the neck and flanks is loose, while that on the abdomen and underside of the tail is sheathed in large, flat square scutes arranged in neat rows. The scutes contain blood vessels and may act to absorb or radiate heat during thermoregulation. Research also suggests that alkaline ions released into the blood from the calcium and magnesium in these dermal bones act as a buffer during prolonged submersion when increasing levels of carbon dioxide would otherwise cause acidosis.\n\nSome scutes contain a single pore known as an integumentary sense organ. Crocodiles and gharials have these on large parts of their bodies, while alligators and caimans only have them on the head. Their exact function is not fully understood, but it has been suggested that they may be mechanosensory organs. Another possibility is that they may produce an oily secretion that prevents mud from adhering to the skin. There are prominent paired integumentary glands in skin folds on the throat, and others in the side walls of the cloaca. Various functions for these have been suggested. They may play a part in communication, as indirect evidence suggest that they secrete pheromones used in courtship or nesting. The skin of crocodilians is tough and can withstand damage from conspecifics, and the immune system is effective enough to heal wounds within a few days.\n\nThe crocodilian has perhaps the most complex vertebrate circulatory system. It has a four-chambered heart and two ventricles, an unusual trait among extant reptiles, and both a left and right aorta which are connected by a hole called the Foramen of Panizza. Like birds and mammals, crocodilians have heart valves that direct blood flow in a single direction through the heart chambers. They also have unique cog-teeth-like valves that, when interlocked, direct blood to the left aorta and away from the lungs, and then back around the body. This system may allow the animals to remain submerged for a longer period, but this explanation has been questioned. Other possible reasons for the peculiar circulatory system include assistance with thermoregulatory needs, prevention of pulmonary oedema, or faster recovery from metabolic acidosis. Retaining carbon dioxide within the body permits an increase in the rate of gastric acid secretion and thus the efficiency of digestion, and other gastrointestinal organs such as the pancreas, spleen, small intestine, and liver also function more efficiently.\n\nWhen submerged, a crocodilian's heart rate slows down to one or two beats a minute, and blood flow to the muscles is reduced. When it rises and takes a breath, its heart rate speeds up in seconds, and the muscles receive newly oxygenated blood. Unlike many marine mammals, crocodilians have little myoglobin to store oxygen in their muscles. During diving, muscles are supplied with oxygen when an increasing concentration of bicarbonate ions causes haemoglobin in the blood to release oxygen.\n\nCrocodilians were traditionally thought to breathe like mammals, with airflow moving in and out tidally, but studies published in 2010 and 2013 conclude that crocodilians breathe more like birds, with airflow moving in a unidirectional loop within the lungs. When a crocodilian inhales, air flows through the trachea and into two primary bronchi, or airways, which branch off into narrower secondary passageways. The air continues to move through these, then into even narrower tertiary airways, and then into other secondary airways which were bypassed the first time. The air then flows back into the primary airways and is exhaled back out. These aerodynamic valves within the bronchial tree have been hypothesised to explain how crocodilians can have unidirectional airflow without the aid of avian-like air sacs.\n\nThe lungs of crocodilians are attached to the liver and the pelvis by the diaphragmaticus muscle (analogous of the diaphragm in mammals). During inhalation, the external intercostal muscles expand the ribs, allowing the animal to take in more air, while the ischiopubis muscle causes the hips to swing downwards and push the belly outward, and the diaphragmaticus pulls the liver back. When exhaling, the internal intercostal muscles push the ribs inward, while the rectus abdominis pulls the hips and liver forwards and the belly inward. Because the lungs expand into the space formerly occupied by the liver and are compressed when it moves back into position, this motion is sometimes referred to as a \"hepatic piston\". Crocodilians can also use these muscles to adjust the position of their lungs; thereby controlling their buoyancy in the water. An animal sinks when the lungs are pulled towards the tail and floats when they move back towards the head. This allows them to move through the water without creating disturbances that could alert potential prey. In addition, they can also spin and twist by moving their lungs laterally.\n\nSwimming and diving crocodilians appear to rely on lung volume more for buoyancy than oxygen storage. Just before diving, the animal exhales to reduce its lung volume and achieve negative buoyancy. When submerging, the nostrils of a crocodilian shut tight. All species have a palatal valve, a membranous flap of skin at the back of the oral cavity that prevents water from flowing into the throat, oesophagus, and trachea. This enables them to open their mouths underwater without drowning. Crocodilians typically remain underwater for fifteen minutes or less at a time, but some can hold their breath for up to two hours under ideal conditions. The maximum diving depth is unknown, but crocodiles can dive to at least .\n\nCrocodilian teeth are adapted for seizing and holding prey, and food is swallowed unchewed. The digestive tract is relatively short, as meat is a fairly simple substance to digest. The stomach is divided into two parts: a muscular gizzard that grinds food, and a digestive chamber where enzymes work on it. The stomach is more acidic than that of any other vertebrate and contains ridges for gastroliths, which play a role in the mechanical breakdown of food. Digestion takes place more quickly at higher temperatures. Crocodilians have a very low metabolic rate and consequently, low energy requirements. This allows them to survive for many months on a single large meal, digesting the food slowly. They can withstand extended fasting, living on stored fat between meals. Even recently hatched crocodiles are able to survive 58 days without food, losing 23% of their bodyweight during this time. An adult crocodile needs between a tenth and a fifth of the amount of food necessary for a lion of the same weight, and can live for half a year without eating.\n\nCrocodilians are ectotherms, producing relatively little heat internally and relying on external sources to raise their body temperatures. The sun's heat is the main means of warming for any crocodilian, while immersion in water may either raise its temperature by conduction, or cool the animal in hot weather. The main method for regulating its temperature is behavioural. For example, an alligator in temperate regions may start the day by basking in the sun on land. A bulky animal, it warms up slowly, but at some time later in the day it moves into the water, still exposing its dorsal surface to the sun. At night it remains submerged, and its temperature slowly falls. The basking period is extended in winter and reduced in summer. For crocodiles in the tropics, avoiding overheating is generally the main problem. They may bask briefly in the morning but then move into the shade, remaining there for the rest of the day, or submerge themselves in water to keep cool. Gaping with the mouth can provide cooling by evaporation from the mouth lining. By these means, the temperature range of crocodilians is usually maintained between , and mainly stays in the range .\n\nThe ranges of the American and Chinese alligator extend into regions that sometimes experience periods of frost in winter. Being ectothermic, the internal body temperature of crocodilians falls as the temperature drops, and they become sluggish. They may become more active on warm days, but do not usually feed at all during the winter. In cold weather, they remain submerged with their tails in deeper, less cold water and their nostrils just projecting through the surface. If ice forms on the water, they maintain ice-free breathing holes, and there have been occasions when their snouts have become frozen into the ice. Temperature sensing probes implanted in wild American alligators have found that their core body temperatures can descend to around , but as long as they remain able to breathe they show no ill effects when the weather warms up.\n\nNo living species of crocodilian can be considered truly marine; although the saltwater crocodile and the American crocodile are able to swim out to sea, their normal habitats are river mouths, estuaries, mangrove swamps, and hypersaline lakes, though several extinct species have had marine habitats, including the recently extinct \"Gavialis\" papuensis, which occurred in a fully marine habitat in the Solomon Islands coastlines. All crocodilians need to maintain the concentration of salt in body fluids at suitable levels. Osmoregulation is related to the quantity of salts and water exchanged with the environment. Intake of water and salts takes place across the lining of the mouth, when water is drunk, incidentally while feeding, and when present in foods. Water is lost from the body during breathing, and both salts and water are lost in the urine and faeces, through the skin, and via salt-excreting glands on the tongue, though these are only present in crocodiles and gharials. The skin is a largely effective barrier to both water and ions. Gaping causes water loss by evaporation from the lining of the mouth, and on land, water is also lost through the skin. Large animals are better able to maintain homeostasis at times of osmotic stress than smaller ones. Newly hatched crocodilians are much less tolerant of exposure to salt water than are older juveniles, presumably because they have a higher surface-area-to-volume ratio.\n\nThe kidneys and excretory system are much the same as in other reptiles, but crocodilians do not have a bladder. In fresh water, the osmolality (the concentration of solutes that contribute to a solution's osmotic pressure) in the plasma is much higher than it is in the surrounding water. The animals are well-hydrated, and the urine in the cloaca is abundant and dilute, nitrogen being excreted as ammonium bicarbonate. Sodium loss is low and mainly takes place through the skin in freshwater conditions. In seawater, the opposite is true. The osmolality in the plasma is lower than the surrounding water, which is dehydrating for the animal. The cloacal urine is much more concentrated, white, and opaque, with the nitrogenous waste being mostly excreted as insoluble uric acid.\n\nCrocodilians are amphibious reptiles, spending part of their time in water and part on land. The last surviving fully terrestrial genus, \"Mekosuchus\", became extinct about 3000 years ago after humans had arrived on its Pacific islands, making the extinction possibly anthropogenic. Typically they are creatures of the tropics; the main exceptions are the American and Chinese alligators, whose ranges extend as far north as the south-eastern United States and the Yangtze River, respectively. Florida, in the United States, is the only place that crocodiles and alligators live side by side. Most crocodilians live in the lowlands, and few are found above , where the temperatures are typically about 5 °C (9 °F) lower than at the coast. None of them permanently reside in the sea, though some can venture into it, and several species can tolerate the brackish water of estuaries, mangrove swamps, and the extreme salinity of hypersaline lakes. The saltwater crocodile has the widest distribution of any crocodilian, with a range extending from eastern India to New Guinea and northern Australia. Much of its success is due to its ability to swim out to sea and colonise new locations, but it is not restricted to the marine environment and spends much time in estuaries, rivers, and large lakes.\n\nVarious types of aquatic habitats are used by different crocodilians. Some species are relatively more terrestrial and prefer swamps, ponds, and the edges of lakes, where they can bask in the sun and there is plenty of plant life supporting a diverse fauna. Others spend more time in the water and inhabit the lower stretches of rivers, mangrove swamps, and estuaries. These habitats also have a rich flora and provide plenty of food. The Asian gharials find the fish on which they feed in the pools and backwaters of swift rivers. South American dwarf caimans inhabit cool, fast-flowing streams, often near waterfalls, and other caimans live in warmer, turbid lakes and slow-moving rivers. The crocodiles are mainly river dwellers, and the Chinese alligator is found in slow-moving, turbid rivers flowing across China's floodplains. The American alligator is an adaptable species and inhabits swamps, rivers, or lakes with clear or turbid water. Climatic factors also affect crocodilians' distribution locally. During the dry season, caimans can be restricted to deep pools in rivers for several months; in the rainy season, much of the savannah in the Venezuelan llanos is flooded, and they disperse widely across the plain. Desert crocodiles in Mauritania have adapted to their arid environment by staying in caves or burrows in a state of aestivation during the driest periods. When it rains, the reptiles gather at gueltas.\n\nDry land is also important as it provides opportunities for basking, nesting, and escaping from temperature extremes. Gaping allows evaporation of moisture from the mouth lining and has a cooling effect, and several species make use of shallow burrows on land to keep cool. Wallowing in mud can also help prevent them from overheating. Four species of crocodilians climb trees to bask in areas lacking a shoreline. The type of vegetation bordering the rivers and lakes inhabited by crocodilians is mostly humid tropical forest, with mangrove swamps in estuarine areas. These forests are of great importance to the crocodilians, creating suitable microhabitats where they can flourish. The roots of the trees absorb water when it rains, releasing it back slowly into the environment. When the forests are cleared to make way for agriculture, rivers tend to silt up, the water runs off rapidly, the water courses can dry up in the dry season and flooding can occur in the wet season. Destruction of forest habitat is probably a greater threat to crocodilians than hunting.\n\nAdult crocodilians are typically territorial and solitary. Individuals may defend basking spots, nesting sites, feeding areas, nurseries, and overwintering sites. Male saltwater crocodiles establish year-round territories that encompass several female nesting sites. Some species are occasionally gregarious, particularly during droughts, when several individuals gather at remaining water sites. Individuals of some species may share basking sites at certain times of the day.\n\nCrocodilians are largely carnivorous, and the diets of different species can vary with snout shape and tooth sharpness. Species with sharp teeth and long slender snouts, like the Indian gharial and Australian freshwater crocodile, are specialised for feeding on fish, insects, and crustaceans, while extremely broad-snouted species with blunt teeth, like the Chinese alligator and broad-snouted caiman, specialise in eating hard-shelled molluscs. Species whose snouts and teeth are intermediate between these two forms, such as the saltwater crocodile and American alligator, have generalised diets and opportunistically feed on invertebrates, fish, amphibians, other reptiles, birds, and mammals. Though mostly carnivorous, several species of crocodilian have been observed to consume fruit, and this may play a role in seed dispersal.\n\nIn general, crocodilians are stalk-and-ambush predators, though hunting strategies vary depending on the individual species and the prey being hunted. Terrestrial prey is stalked from the water's edge and then grabbed and drowned. Gharials and other fish-eating species sweep their jaws sideways to snap up prey, and these animals can leap out of the water to catch birds, bats, and leaping fish. Small animals can be killed by whiplash as the predator shakes its head. Caimans use their tails and bodies to herd fish into shallow water. They may also dig for bottom-dwelling invertebrates, and the smooth-fronted caiman will even hunt on land. Some crocodilian species have been observed to use sticks and branches to lure nest-building birds. Nile crocodiles are known to hunt cooperatively, and several individuals may feed on the same carcass. Most species will eat anything suitable that comes within reach and are also opportunistic scavengers.\n\nCrocodilians are unable to chew and need to swallow food whole, so prey that is too large to swallow is torn into pieces. They may be unable to deal with a large animal with a thick hide, and may wait until it becomes putrid and comes apart more easily. To tear a chunk of tissue from a large carcass, a crocodilian spins its body continuously while holding on with its jaws, a manoeuvre known as the \"death roll\". During cooperative feeding, some individuals may hold on to the prey, while others perform the roll. The animals do not fight, and each retires with a piece of flesh and awaits its next feeding turn. Food is typically consumed by crocodilians with their heads above water. The food is held with the tips of the jaws, tossed towards the back of the mouth by an upward jerk of the head and then gulped down. Nile crocodiles may store carcasses underwater for later consumption.\n\nCrocodilians are generally polygynous, and individual males try to mate with as many females as they can. Monogamous pairings have been recorded in American alligators. Dominant male crocodilians patrol and defend territories which contain several females. Males of some species, like the American alligator, try to attract females with elaborate courtship displays. During courtship, crocodilian males and females may rub against each other, circle around, and perform swimming displays. Copulation typically occurs in the water. When a female is ready to mate, she arches her back while her head and tail submerge. The male rubs across the female's neck and then grasps her with his hindlimbs, placing his tail underneath hers so their cloacas align and his penis can be inserted. Mating can last up to 15 minutes, during which time the pair continuously submerge and surface. While dominant males usually monopolise reproductive females, multiple paternity is known to exist in American alligators, where as many as three different males may sire offspring in a single clutch. Within a month of mating, the female crocodilian begins to make a nest.\n\nDepending on the species, female crocodilians may construct either holes or mounds as nests, the latter made from vegetation, litter, sand, or soil. Nests are typically found near dens or caves. Those made by different females are sometimes close to each other, particularly in hole-nesting species. The number of eggs laid in a single clutch ranges from ten to fifty. Crocodilian eggs are protected by hard shells made of calcium carbonate. The incubation period is two to three months. The temperature at which the eggs incubate determines the sex of the hatchlings. Constant nest temperatures above produce more males, while those below produce more females. However, sex in crocodilians may be determined in a short interval, and nests are subject to changes in temperature. Most natural nests produce hatchlings of both sexes, though single-sex clutches do occur.\n\nThe young may all hatch in a single night. Crocodilians are unusual among reptiles in the amount of parental care provided after the young hatch. The mother helps excavate hatchlings from the nest and carries them to water in her mouth. Newly hatched crocodilians gather together and stay close to their mother. For spectacled caimans in the Venezuelan llanos, individual mothers are known to leave their young in the same nurseries, or crèches, and one of the mothers guards them. Hatchlings of many species tend to bask in a group during the day and disperse at nightfall to feed. The time it takes young crocodilians to reach independence can vary. For American alligators, groups of young associate with adults for one to two years, while juvenile saltwater and Nile crocodiles become independent in a few months.\n\nThe social life of a crocodilian begins while it is still in the egg, because the young start communicating with each other before they are hatched. It has been shown that a light tapping noise near the nest will be repeated by the young, one after another. Such early communication may help them to hatch simultaneously. Once it has broken out of the egg, a juvenile produces yelps and grunts, either spontaneously or as a result of external stimuli and even unrelated adults respond quickly to juvenile distress calls.\n\nVocalisations are frequent as the juveniles disperse, and again as they congregate in the morning. Nearby adults, presumably the parents, also give signals warning of predators or alerting the youngsters to the presence of food. The range and quantity of vocalisations vary between species. Alligators are the noisiest, while some crocodile species are almost completely silent. Adult female New Guinea crocodiles and Siamese crocodiles roar when approached by another adult, while Nile crocodiles grunt or bellow in a similar situation. The American alligator is exceptionally noisy; it emits a series of about seven throaty bellows, each a couple of seconds long, at ten second intervals. It also makes various grunts and hisses. Males create vibrations in the water to send out infrasonic signals that serve to attract females and intimidate rivals. The enlarged boss of the male gharial may serve as a sound resonator.\n\nAnother form of acoustic communication is the headslap. This typically starts with an animal in the water elevating its snout and remaining stationary. After some time, the jaws are opened sharply then clamped shut with a biting motion that makes a loud slapping sound, and this is immediately followed by a loud splash, after which the head may be submerged and copious bubbles produced. Some species then roar, while others slap the water with their tails. Episodes of headslapping spread through the group. The purpose varies, but it seems to be associated with maintaining social relationships, and is also used in courtship. Dominant individuals may also display their body size while swimming at the water surface, and a subordinate will submit by holding its head at an acute angle with the jaws open before retreating underwater.\n\nMortality is high for eggs and hatchlings, and nests face threats from floods, overheating, and predators. Flooding is a major cause of failure of crocodilians to breed successfully: nests are submerged, developing embryos are deprived of oxygen, and juveniles get washed away. Numerous predators, both mammalian and reptilian, may raid nests and eat crocodilian eggs. Despite the maternal care they receive, hatchlings commonly fall to predation. While the female is transporting some to the nursery area, others are picked off by predators that lurk near the nest. In addition to terrestrial predators, the hatchlings are also subject to aquatic attacks by fish. Birds take their toll, and in any clutch there may be malformed individuals that are unlikely to survive. In northern Australia, the survival rate for saltwater crocodile hatchlings is only twenty-five percent, but with each succeeding year of life this improves, reaching sixty percent by year five.\n\nMortality rates are fairly low among subadults and adults, though they are occasionally preyed on by large cats and snakes. The jaguar and the giant otter may prey on caimans in South America. In other parts of the world, elephants and hippopotamuses may kill crocodiles defensively. Authorities differ as to whether much cannibalism takes place among crocodilians. Adults do not normally eat their own offspring, but there is some evidence of subadults feeding on juveniles and of adults attacking subadults. In Nile crocodiles, rival males sometimes kill each other during the breeding season.\n\nGrowth in hatchlings and young crocodilians depends on the food supply, and sexual maturity is linked with length rather than age. Female saltwater crocodiles reach maturity at , while males mature at . Australian freshwater crocodiles take ten years to reach maturity at . The spectacled caiman matures earlier, reaching its mature length of in four to seven years. Crocodilians continue to grow throughout their lives. Males in particular continue to gain in weight as they get older, but this is mostly in the form of extra girth rather than length. Crocodilians can live 35–75 years, and their age can be determined by growth rings in their bones.\n\nBeing highly efficient predators, crocodilians tend to be top of the food chain in their watery environments. The nest mounds built by some species of crocodilian are used by other animals for their own purposes. American alligator mounds are used by turtles and snakes, both for basking and for laying their own eggs. The Florida red-bellied turtle specialises in this, and alligator mounds may have several clutches of turtle eggs developing alongside the owner's eggs. Alligators modify some wetland habitats in flat areas such as the Everglades by constructing small ponds known as \"alligator holes\". These create wetter or drier habitats for other organisms, such as plants, fish, invertebrates, amphibians, reptiles, and mammals. In the limestone depressions of cypress swamps, alligator holes tend to be large and deep. Those in marl prairies and rocky glades are usually small and shallow, while those in peat depressions of ridge and slough wetlands are more variable. Man-made holes do not appear to have as large an effect.\n\nIn the Amazon basin, when caimans became scarce as a result of overhunting in the mid-20th century, the number of local fish, such as the important arapaima (\"Arapaima gigas\"), also decreased. These are nutrient-poor waters, and the urine and faeces of the caimans may have increased primary production by contributing plant nutrients. Thus the presence of the reptiles could have benefited the fish stock; the number of crocodilians in a stretch of water appears to be correlated with the fish population.\n\nThe main distinguishing characteristic of diapsid tetrapods is the presence of two openings (temporal fenestrae) on either side of the skull behind the eye. Living diapsids include all crocodilians, lizards, snakes, tuataras, and birds. The feature that distinguishes archosaurs from other diapsids is an extra pair of openings in the skull (antorbital fenestrae) in front of the eye sockets. Archosauria is the crown group containing the most recent common ancestor of crocodilians and birds and all its descendants. It comprises the Pseudosuchia, the \"false crocodiles\", and the Ornithosuchia, which in turn comprises the dinosaurs and their relatives, the pterosaurs and the birds. Pseudosuchia is defined as living crocodilians and all archosaurs more closely related to crocodilians than to birds. The Pseudosuchia–bird split is assumed to have occurred close to the Permian–Triassic mass extinction event. In modern crocodilians, the antorbital fenestrae are walled off externally and exist merely as sinuses. They were present in most of their fossil ancestors as small openings.\n\nThe crocodylomorphs are the only pseudosuchians to have survived the Triassic–Jurassic extinction event, 201.3 million years ago. During the early Jurassic period, the dinosaurs became dominant on land, and the crocodylomorphs underwent major adaptive diversifications to fill ecological niches vacated by recently extinguished groups. Unfolding fossil evidence shows that Mesozoic crocodylomorphs had a much greater diversity of forms than modern crocodilians. Some became small fast-moving insectivores, others specialist fish-eaters, still others marine and terrestrial carnivores, and a few became herbivores. The earliest stage of crocodilian evolution was the protosuchians, which evolved in the late Triassic and early Jurassic. They were followed by the mesosuchians, which diversified widely during the Jurassic and the Tertiary. Another group, the eusuchians, appeared in the late Cretaceous 80 million years ago and includes all the crocodilians living today.\nProtosuchians were small, mostly terrestrial animals with short snouts and long limbs. They had bony armor in the form of two rows of plates extending from head to tail, and this armor is retained by most modern crocodilians. Their vertebrae were convex on the two main articulating surfaces, and their bony palates were little developed. The mesosuchians saw a fusion of the palatine bones to form a secondary bony palate and a great extension of the nasal passages to near the pterygoid bones. This allowed the animal to breathe through its nostrils while its mouth was open under the water. The eusuchians continued this process with the interior nostrils now opening through an aperture in the pterygoid bones. The vertebrae of eusuchians had one convex and one concave articulating surface, allowing for a ball and socket type joint between the vertebrae, bringing greater flexibility and strength. The oldest known eusuchian is \"Hylaeochampsa vectiana\" from the lower Cretaceous of the Isle of Wight in the United Kingdom. It was followed by crocodilians such as the Planocraniidae, the so-called 'hoofed crocodiles', in the Palaeogene. Spanning the Cretaceous and Palaeogene periods is the genus \"Borealosuchus\" of North America, with six species, though its phylogenetic position is not settled.\n\nThe three primary branches of Crocodilia had diverged by the end of the Mesozoic. The earliest-known members of the group are alligatoroids and gavialoids that lived in North America and Europe during the Campanian (around 83.6–72.1 million years ago). Although the first known crocodyloids appeared in the Maastrichtian (around 72.1–66.0 million years ago), that lineage must have been present during the Campanian, and the earliest alligatoroids and gavialoids include highly derived forms, which indicates that the time of the actual divergence between the three lineages must have been a pre-Campanian event.\n\nThe phylogenetic relationships of crocodilians has been the subject of debate and conflicting results. Many studies and their resulting cladograms, or \"family trees\" of crocodilians, have found the \"short-snouted\" families of Crocodylidae and Alligatoridae to be close relatives, with the long-snouted Gavialidae as a divergent branch of the tree. The resulting group of short-snouted species, name Brevirostres, was supported mainly by studies which analyzed skeletal features alone.\n\nIn 2012, Erickson \"et al.\" produced a phylogeny formed from DNA sequencing to give a maximum likelihood cladogram of the relationships among living crocodilians (excluding the yacare caiman for which no DNA evidence was available). In this, the existence of a distinct group Brevirostres was rejected, with the long-snouted gavialids more closely related to crocodiles than to alligators.\n\n\nThere are two extant species of Gavialidae: the gharial and the false gharial. Gharials can be recognised by the long narrow snout, with an enlarged boss at the tip. They are rare and found only in South Asia.\n\nThe extant Alligatoridae are two species in the genus \"Alligator\", and six species of caimans grouped into three genera. They can be recognised by the broad snout, in which the fourth tooth of the lower jaw cannot be seen when the mouth is closed.\n\nThe extant Crocodylidae are twelve species in the genus \"Crocodylus\", and two species in other genera. They have a variety of snout shapes, but can be recognised because the fourth tooth of the lower jaw is visible when the mouth is closed.\n\nAlligators and crocodiles were first farmed in the early 20th century, but the facilities involved were zoo-like and their main source of income was from tourism. By the early 1960s, the feasibility of farming these reptiles on a commercial scale was investigated in response to the decline of many crocodilian species around the world. Farming involves breeding and rearing captive stock on a self-contained basis, whereas ranching means the use of eggs, juveniles, or adults taken each year from the wild. Commercial organisations must satisfy the criteria of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) by demonstrating that, in the area concerned, they do not adversely impact the wild population.\n\nAlligator and crocodile farming began because of demand for their hides, but now nearly all parts of the animal are put to use. The side and belly skin make the best leather, the meat is eaten, the gall bladders are valued in East Asia, and the heads are sometimes made into ornaments. In traditional Chinese medicine, alligator meat is said to cure the common cold and prevent cancer, while various internal organs are believed to have medicinal properties.\n\nCrocodilians are opportunistic predators that are at their most dangerous in water and at the edge of water. Eight species are known to attack humans and may do so to defend their territories, nests, or young; by mistake, while attacking domestic animals such as dogs; or for food, as larger crocodilians can take prey as big as or bigger than humans. The species on which there is most data are the saltwater crocodile, the Nile crocodile, and the American alligator. Other species which have sometimes attacked humans are the black caiman, the Morelet's crocodile, the mugger crocodile, the American crocodile, the gharial, and the freshwater crocodile.\nThe Nile crocodile has a reputation as the biggest killer of large animals, including humans, on the African continent. It is widely distributed, found in many habitats and cryptically coloured. From a waiting position with only its eyes and nostrils above the water, it can lunge at drinking animals, fishermen, bathers, or people collecting water or washing clothes. Once seized and dragged into the water, there is little chance for the victim to escape. Analysis of attacks show that most take place during the breeding season or when crocodiles are guarding nests or newly hatched young. Although many attacks go unreported, there are estimated to be over 300 per year, 63% of which are fatal. Wild saltwater crocodiles in Australia carried out 62 confirmed and unprovoked attacks causing injury or death between 1971 and 2004. These animals have also caused fatalities in Malaysia, New Guinea, and elsewhere. They are highly territorial and resent intrusion into their territories by other crocodiles, humans, or boats such as canoes. Attacks may come from animals of various sizes, but the larger males are generally responsible for fatalities. As their size increases, so does their need for larger mammalian prey; pigs, cattle, horses, and humans are all within the size range they seek. Most of the people attacked were either swimming or wading, but in two instances they were asleep in tents.\n\nAmerican alligators are recorded as making 242 unprovoked attacks between 1948 and mid-2004, causing sixteen human fatalities. Ten of these were in the water and two were on land; the circumstances of the other four are not known. Most attacks were in the warmer months of the year, though in Florida, with its warmer climate, attacks can happen at any time of year. Alligators are considered to be less aggressive than either the Nile or saltwater crocodile, but the increase in density of the human population in the Everglades has brought people and alligators into closer proximity and increased the risk of alligator attacks. Conversely in Mauritania, where the crocodiles' growth is severely stunted by the arid conditions, the local people swim with them without being attacked.\n\nSeveral species of crocodilian are traded as exotic pets. They are appealing when young, and pet-store owners can easily sell them, but crocodilians do not make good pets; they grow large and are both dangerous and expensive to keep. As they grow older, pet crocodilians are often abandoned by their owners, and feral populations of spectacled caimans exist in the United States and Cuba. Most countries have strict regulations for keeping these reptiles.\n\nThe blood of alligators and crocodiles contains peptides with antibiotic properties. These may contribute to future antibacterial drugs.\n\nThe main threat to crocodilians around the world is human activity, including hunting and habitat destruction. Early in the 1970s, more than 2 million wild crocodilian skins of a variety of species had been traded, driving down the majority of crocodilian populations, in some cases almost to extinction. Starting in 1973, CITES attempted to prevent trade in body parts of endangered animals, such as the skins of crocodiles. This proved to be problematic in the 1980s, as crocodiles were abundant and dangerous to humans in some parts of Africa, and it was legal to hunt them. At the Conference of the Parties in Botswana in 1983, it was argued on behalf of aggrieved local people that it was reasonable to sell the lawfully hunted skins. In the late 1970s, crocodiles began to be farmed in different countries, started from eggs taken from the wild. By the 1980s, farmed crocodile skins were produced in sufficient numbers to destroy the unlawful trade in wild crocodilians. By 2000, skins from twelve crocodilian species, whether harvested lawfully in the wild or farmed, were traded by thirty countries, and the unlawful trade in the products had almost vanished.\n\nThe gharial has undergone a chronic long-term decline, combined with a rapid short-term decline, leading the IUCN to list the species as critically endangered. In 1946, the gharial population had been widespread, numbering around 5,000 to 10,000; by 2006, however, it had declined 96–98%, reduced to a small number of widely spaced subpopulations of fewer than 235 individuals. This long-term decline had a number of causes, including egg collection and hunting, such as for indigenous medicine. The rapid decline of about 58% between 1997 and 2006 was caused by increasing use of gill nets and the loss of riverine habitat. The gharial population continues to be threatened by environmental hazards such as heavy metals and protozoan parasites, but as of 2013 numbers are rising, due to the protection of nests against egg predators. The Chinese alligator was historically widespread throughout the eastern Yangtze River system but is currently restricted to some areas in southeastern Anhui province thanks to habitat fragmentation and degradation. The wild population is believed to exist only in small fragmented ponds. In 1972, the species was declared a Class I endangered species by the Chinese government and received the maximum amount of legal protection. Since 1979, captive breeding programs were established in China and North America, creating a healthy captive population. In 2008, alligators bred in the Bronx Zoo were successfully reintroduced to Chongming Island. The Philippine crocodile is perhaps the most threatened crocodilian and is considered by the IUCN to be critically endangered. Hunting and destructive fishing habits have reduced its population to around 100 individuals by 2009. In the same year, 50 captive bred crocodiles were released into the wild to help boost the population. Support from local people is crucial for the species' survival.\n\nThe American alligator has also suffered serious declines from hunting and habitat loss throughout its range, threatening it with extinction. In 1967 it was listed as an endangered species, but the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and state wildlife agencies in the Southern United States stepped in and worked towards its recovery. Protection allowed the species to recuperate, and in 1987 it was removed from the endangered species list. Much research into alligator ranching has been undertaken at the Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge, a large area of marshland in the state of Louisiana. The resulting data has increased understanding of penning, stocking rates, egg incubation, hatching, rearing, and diet, and this information has been used at other establishments around the world. Income from the alligators kept at Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge contributes to conservation of the marshland. A study examining alligator farms in the United States showed that they have generated significant conservation gains, and poaching of wild alligators has greatly diminished.\n\nCrocodilians have had prominent roles in the myths and legends of various cultures around the world and may even have inspired stories of dragons. In Ancient Egyptian religion, Ammit, the demoniac devourer of unworthy souls, and Sobek, the god of power, protection, and fertility, are both represented as having crocodile heads. This reflects the Egyptians' view of the crocodile both as a terrifying predator and an important part of the Nile ecosystem. The crocodile was one of several animals that the Egyptians mummified. Crocodiles were also associated with various water deities by peoples of West Africa. During the Benin Empire, crocodiles were considered the \"policemen of the waters\" and symbolised the power of the king or \"oba\" to punish wrongdoers. The Leviathan described in the Book of Job may have been based on a crocodile. In Mesoamerica, the Aztecs had a crocodilian god of fertility named Cipactli who protected crops. In Aztec mythology, the earth deity Tlaltecuhtli is sometimes represented as a crocodile-like monster. The Maya also associated crocodilians with fertility and death.\n\nThe gharial is featured in the folk tales of India. In one story, a gharial and a monkey become friends when the monkey gives the gharial fruit. The gharial's wife demands that her husband bring home the monkey to eat, believing that the fruit made the monkey's heart sweet. The gharial complies at first and attempts to lure the monkey to his home, but soon comes clean about the plan. Their friendship ends after that. Similar stories exist in Native American legends, and in the African American folktale of an alligator and Br'er Rabbit.\n\nIn a Malay folk tale, the mouse deer Sang Kancil wants to cross a river to reach the fruit trees on the far side, but Sang Buaya, a crocodile, is waiting in the river to eat him. Sang Kancil asks all the crocodiles to line up across the river so he can count them for the king, and makes them promise not to eat him as he counts. He then steps on their heads one by one, calling out \"One! Two! Three!\" as he goes. When he reaches the far side, he thanks them for helping him cross the river, and feasts on fruit. Sang Buaya does not fare as well, since the other crocodiles are angry with him for letting Sang Kancil trick them. A legend from East Timor tells how a boy rescues a gigantic crocodile that becomes stranded. In return, the crocodile protects him for the rest of its life, and when it dies, its scaly ridged back becomes the hills of Timor. One Australian Dreamtime story tells of a crocodile ancestor who had fire all to himself. One day, a \"rainbow bird\" stole fire-sticks from the crocodile and gave it to man. Hence the crocodile lives in water.\n\nAncient historians have described crocodilians from the earliest historical records, though often their descriptions contain as much legend as fact. The Ancient Greek historian Herodotus (c. 440 BC) described the crocodile in detail, though much of his description is fanciful; he claimed that it would lie with its mouth open to permit a \"trochilus\" bird (possibly an Egyptian plover) to enter and remove any leeches it found. The crocodile was one of the beasts described in the late-13th century Rochester Bestiary, based on classical sources, including Pliny's \"Historia naturalis\" (c. 79 AD) and Isidore of Seville's \"Etymologies\". Isidore asserts that the crocodile is named for its saffron colour (Latin croceus, 'saffron'), and that it is often twenty cubits () long. He further claimed that the crocodile may be killed by fish with serrated crests sawing into its soft underbelly, and that the male and female take turns guarding the eggs.\n\nCrocodiles have been reputed to weep for their victims since the 9th century \"Bibliotheca\" by Photios I of Constantinople. The story was repeated in later accounts such as that of Bartholomeus Anglicus in the 13th century. It became widely known in 1400 when the English traveller Sir John Mandeville wrote his description of \"cockodrills\":\n\nWilliam Shakespeare refers to crocodile tears in \"Othello\" (Act IV, Scene i), \"Henry VI, Part 2\" (Act III, Scene i), and \"Antony and Cleopatra\" (Act II, Scene vii).\n\nCrocodilians, especially the crocodile, have been recurring characters in stories for children throughout the modern era. Lewis Carroll's \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" (1865) contains the poem \"How Doth the Little Crocodile\", a parody of a moralising poem by Isaac Watts, \"\".\nIn J. M. Barrie's novel \"Peter and Wendy\" (1911), the character Captain Hook has lost his arm to the crocodile. Hook fears the crocodile, but is warned of its approach by the ticking of a clock which it has swallowed.\nIn Rudyard Kipling's \"Just So Stories\" (1902), the Elephant's Child acquires his trunk by having his (short) nose pulled very hard by the Crocodile \"on the banks of the great grey-green, greasy Limpopo river\". The newly elongated nose allows him to pick fruit instead of waiting for it to fall, and to do many other useful things. Roald Dahl's \"The Enormous Crocodile\" (1978), illustrated by Quentin Blake, tells how a crocodile wanders the jungle looking for children to eat, trying one trick after another.\n\nCrocodilians are sometimes used as mascots for sports teams. The Canton Crocodiles were a baseball team in the Frontier League, while the University of Florida sport teams are known as the Florida Gators, in reference to the American alligator, and their mascots are Albert and Alberta Gator. In film and television, crocodilians are represented as dangerous obstacles in lakes and rivers, as in the 1986 Australian comedy film \"\"Crocodile\" Dundee\", or as monstrous man-eaters in horror films like \"Eaten Alive\" (1977), \"Alligator\" (1980), \"Lake Placid\" (1999), \"Primeval\" (2007), and \"Black Water\" (2007). Some media have attempted to portray these reptiles in more positive or educational light, such as Steve Irwin's wildlife documentary series \"The Crocodile Hunter\". Crocodilians in animation include the Hanna-Barbera character Wally Gator, and Ben Ali Gator from the \"Dance of the Hours\" segment of Disney's 1940 film \"Fantasia\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "64043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64043", "title": "Durin", "text": "Durin\n\nDurin is the name of seven Kings of Dwarves in J. R. R. Tolkien's legendarium. They were held by the Dwarves to be the reincarnations of the first one, Durin the Deathless, resembling him in appearance and said to have preserved memories of their 'earlier lives'.\n\nTolkien took the name \"Durin\", like most of the dwarf names in his works, from Norse mythology. This he later explained by the translation fiction: since Tolkien's invented language of Westron was translated with English, the language of Dale, used by Dwarves for their \"outer\" names, was translated with Old Norse. One way the Old Norse term \"durinn\" can be translated is \"sleepy\", which aptly features in the legends of the origins and ultimate fate of Durin the Deathless.\n\nDiscussions of the Durins (specifically in \"The Peoples of Middle-earth\") must be read with care, since their number expanded as Tolkien's story developed. The Durin killed by the Balrog for example, was originally Durin III, but Durin VI in \"The Lord of the Rings\". (And a common typo on the Web lists him as \"Durin IV\".)\n\nDurin the Deathless was the eldest of the Seven Fathers of the Dwarves. Durin was created by Aulë the Vala during the Years of the Trees. He was named \"the Deathless\" as he lived to a far greater age than any other Dwarf, and he was revered by all Dwarves as the eldest of their race. \n\nEach of the seven Fathers founded a clan of Dwarves. Durin's clan was called the \"Longbeards\" and Durin's folk.\n\nAccording to the traditions of the Dwarves, Durin was set to sleep alone beneath Mount Gundabad in the north of the Misty Mountains, which remained a sacred place to them ever after. He awakened some time after the creation of the Elves in , and according to an early version of the story travelled great distances to other Dwarf kindreds, where other Dwarves joined him. He arrived at the Mirrormere, a lake in a valley below Caradhras in the Misty Mountains, and there founded what became the greatest and richest of the Mansions of the Dwarves: Khazad-dûm (Dwarrowdelf), afterward called Moria (meaning 'Dark Chasm' in Sindarin). \n\nSome important places in Khazad-dûm were named after this Durin: Durin's Stone, Durin's Bridge and probably Durin's Tower. Durin the Deathless was also commemorated in Durin's Crown (the constellation, artefact and emblem), and Durin's Day (the name of Khazad-dûm's golden age and of the Dwarvish New Year).\n\nDurin the Deathless was buried in a tomb in Khazad-dûm. The Dwarves regarded him as in longeval \"sleep\" rather than dead: a book-end to his long primeval sleep, from which he would likewise ultimately awake.\n\nIn the published version of the story, Durin died before the end of the First Age. An early version of Appendix B (\"The Tale of Years\") had him leading Dwarves from the ruin of Beleriand to found Khazad-dûm at the beginning of the Second Age; but Tolkien abandoned that line.\n\nAfter Durin died, Khazad-dûm was ruled by \"many generations\" of his descendants, until the Balrog appeared in Moria. In this long line, Tolkien writes, there appeared occasionally \"an heir so like to his Forefather that he received the name of Durin.\" More complete versions of the account of Durin's Folk make clear that the later Durins appeared scattered amongst many generations. These six further Durins were believed by the Dwarves to be reincarnations (or even reanimations) of Durin I, with memories of his earlier lives.\n\nIn , during the unsuccessful attempt to recolonize Moria, Balin's party evidently found Durin's Axe. Though not stated in the text, many Tolkien scholars have concluded that this was an heirloom lost when Durin VI was killed by the Balrog in (A helm is also mentioned, not identified in the text as Durin's, from which some have conjectured \"Durin's Helm\" as well.) The Axe was evidently lost again when Balin's party was killed in .\n\nFoster suggests that this is the Durin named on the West-gate of Moria. The gate was built during the alliance with the neighbouring Elf-realm of Eregion, which was established circa .\n\nHe was King of Khazad-dûm \"circa\" , and was the first bearer of one of the Seven Rings (a fact not widely known until the end of the Third Age). The Dwarves believed he had been given his ring by Celebrimbor and not by Sauron, though Sauron was involved in the making.\n\nCelebrimbor was the lord of the Elven-smiths of Eregion, which was subsequently besieged in the War of the Elves and Sauron. In 1697 Celebrimbor was killed, and Durin III sent an army into the conflict. Neither the dwarves nor an additional army led by Elrond was able to prevent the destruction of Eregion, though some Elves were able to escape. Durin then withdrew his people into Khazad-dûm and shut the gates.\n\nHammond and Scull conclude that Durin III was King of Khazad-dûm when the West Gate of Moria was constructed, the Durin whose name appears on the door. (It was made while the Dwarves were allied with Celebrimbor.) This is a plausible inference but appears to be unsupported by direct evidence from Tolkien. (Foster suggests that the Gate was constructed earlier, under Durin II: see above.)\n\nHe would have lived in Khazad-dûm in the late Second or early Third Age, but Tolkien records nothing of his reign. \n\nA persistent rumour on the Web holds that Durin IV was the king who led the Dwarves from Khazad-dûm to fight against Sauron with the Last Alliance at the end of the Second Age. Tolkien indicates that Dwarves of Durin's Folk did fight with the Last Alliance, but he does not say under which king they fought.\n\nTolkien records nothing of his reign.\n\nDurin VI was King of the Dwarves of Khazad-dûm in the Third Age, when their deep mining for \"mithril\" under Caradhras aroused a Balrog from its hiding place in the depths. The Balrog killed Durin in , and became known as Durin's Bane. Durin was succeeded by his son, Náin I, whom the Balrog killed in the following year. Moria was then abandoned by its people.\n\nDurin VII or Durin the Last was the direct descendant of king Thorin III Stonehelm (according to some sources, his son), ruler of Erebor and the Iron Hills in the Fourth Age. His birth was apparently prophesied upon the accession of Dáin II after the Battle of Five Armies (although no record exists of the actual prophecy itself). He led Durin's Folk back to recolonize Khazad-dûm (Moria) at some (unspecified) time after the beginning of the Fourth Age, where they remained \"until the world grew old and the Dwarves failed and the days of Durin's race were ended\".\n\nDurin's Folk\n\n"}
{"id": "8652215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8652215", "title": "Faouzi Aaish", "text": "Faouzi Aaish\n\nFaouzi Mubarak Aaish (born 27 February 1985) is a Bahraini professional football player of Moroccan origin who is currently a free agent and the Bahrain national football team.\n\nBorn in Morocco, Aaish represents Bahrain in international competition and has made many appearances for the Bahrain national football team, including 14 qualifying matches for the 2006 and 2010 FIFA World Cup. He scored the game-winning goal against Qatar to keep Bahrain's hopes of qualifying alive on 2 April 2009. Faouzi scored a penalty against Qatar which ended to 1-0 win,and Bahrain made it out of the group stage into the semi-finals of the GCC cup.\n"}
{"id": "89242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89242", "title": "Gene knockout", "text": "Gene knockout\n\nA gene knockout (abbreviation: KO) is a genetic technique in which one of an organism's genes is made inoperative (\"knocked out\" of the organism). However, KO can also refer to the gene that is knocked out or the organism that carries the gene knockout. Knockout organisms or simply knockouts are used to study gene function, usually by investigating the effect of gene loss. Researchers draw inferences from the difference between the knockout organism and normal individuals.\n\nThe KO technique is essentially the opposite of a gene knockin. Knocking out two genes simultaneously in an organism is known as a double knockout (DKO). Similarly the terms triple knockout (TKO) and quadruple knockouts (QKO) are used to describe three or four knocked out genes, respectively. However, one needs to distinguish between heterozygous and homozygous KOs. In the former, only one of two gene copies (alleles) is knocked out, in the latter both are knocked out.\n\nKnockouts are accomplished through a variety of techniques. Originally, naturally occurring mutations were identified and then gene loss or inactivation had to be established by DNA sequencing or other methods.\n\nTraditionally, homologous recombination was the main method for causing a gene knockout. This method involves creating a DNA construct containing the desired mutation. For knockout purposes, this typically involves a drug resistance marker in place of the desired knockout gene. The construct will also contain a minimum of 2kb of homology to the target sequence. The construct can be delivered to stem cells either through microinjection or electroporation. This method then relies on the cell's own repair mechanisms to recombine the DNA construct into the existing DNA. This results in the sequence of the gene being altered, and most cases the gene will be translated into a nonfunctional protein, if it is translated at all. However, this is an inefficient process, as homologous recombination accounts for only 10 to 10 of DNA integrations. Often, the drug selection marker on the construct is used to select for cells in which the recombination event has occurred.These stem cells now lacking the gene could be used in vivo, for instance in mice, by inserting them into early embryos. If the resulting chimeric mouse contained the genetic change in their germline, this could then be passed on offspring.\n\nIn diploid organisms, which contain two alleles for most genes, and may as well contain several related genes that collaborate in the same role, additional rounds of transformation and selection are performed until every targeted gene is knocked out. Selective breeding may be required to produce homozygous knockout animals.\n\nThere are currently three methods in use that involve precisely targeting a DNA sequence in order to introduce a double-stranded break. Once this occurs, the cell's repair mechanisms will attempt to repair this double stranded break, often through non-homologous end joining (NHEJ), which involves directly ligating the two cut ends together. This may be done imperfectly, therefore sometimes causing insertions or deletions of base pairs, which cause frameshift mutations. These mutations can render the gene in which they occur nonfunctional, thus creating a knockout of that gene. This process is more efficient than homologous recombination, and therefore can be more easily used to create biallelic knockouts.\n\nZinc-finger nucleases consist of DNA binding domains that can precisely target a DNA sequence. Each zinc finger can recognize codons of a desired DNA sequence, and therefore can be modularly assembled to bind to a particular sequence. These binding domains are coupled with a restriction endonuclease that can cause a double stranded break (DSB) in the DNA. Repair processes may introduce mutations that destroy functionality of the gene.\n\nTranscription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs) also contain a DNA binding domain and a nuclease that can cleave DNA. The DNA binding region consists of amino acid repeats that each recognize a single base pair of the desired targeted DNA sequence. If this cleavage is targeted to a gene coding region, and NHEJ-mediated repair introduces insertions and deletions, a frameshift mutation often results, thus disrupting function of the gene.\n\nClustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR) is a method for genome editing that contains a guide RNA complexed with a Cas9 protein. The guide RNA can be engineered to match a desired DNA sequence through simple complementary base pairing, as opposed to the time consuming assembly of constructs required by zinc-fingers or TALENs. The coupled Cas9 will cause a double stranded break in the DNA. Following the same principle as zinc-fingers and TALENs, the attempts to repair these double stranded breaks often result in frameshift mutations that result in an nonfunctional gene.\n\nGene knockin is similar to gene knockout, but it replaces a gene with another instead of deleting it.\n\nA conditional knockout allows gene deletion in a tissue in a time specific manner. This is required in place of a gene knockout if the null mutation would lead to embryonic death. This is done by introducing short sequences called loxP sites around the gene. These sequences will be introduced into the germ-line via the same mechanism as a knock-out. This germ-line can then be crossed to another germline containing Cre-recombinase which is a viral enzyme that can recognize these sequences, recombines them and deletes the gene flanked by these sites.\n\nKnockouts are primarily used to understand the role of a specific gene or DNA region by comparing the knockout organism to a wildtype with a similar genetic background.\n\nKnockout organisms are also used as screening tools in the development of drugs, to target specific biological processes or deficiencies by using a specific knockout, or to understand the mechanism of action of a drug by using a library of knockout organisms spanning the entire genome, such as in \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50708946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50708946", "title": "Genome Project-Write", "text": "Genome Project-Write\n\nThe Genome Project - Write (also known as GP-Write) includes sub-projects like Human Genome Project-Write (HGP-Write), formally announced on 2 Jun 2016, is an extension of Genome Projects (aimed at reading genomes since 1984), now to include development of technologies for synthesis and testing of many genomes of microbes, plants and animals. This leverages two decades of work on Synthetic Biology and Artificial gene synthesis.\n\nThe newly created GP-Write project will be managed by the Center of Excellence for Engineering Biology, a new nonprofit organization. The researchers expect that the ability to synthesize large portions of many genomes would result in many scientific and medical advances.\n\nTechnologies for constructing and testing Yeast artificial chromosomes, synthetic yeast genomes (Sc2.0) and virus/phage-resistant bacterial genomes have industrial, agricultural and medical applications.\n\nThe human genome consists of three billion DNA nucleotides, which have been described in the Human Genome Project - Read program, 95% completed in 2004. \nExamples of goals of GP-Write include making cell lines that are resistant to all viruses and synthesis assembly lines to test variants of unknown significance that arise in research and diagnostic sequencing of human genomes (which has been exponentially improving in cost, quality and interpretation).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "234798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234798", "title": "Grief", "text": "Grief\n\nGrief is a multifaceted response to loss, particularly to the loss of someone or something that has died, to which a bond or affection was formed. Although conventionally focused on the emotional response to loss, it also has physical, cognitive, behavioral, social, cultural, spiritual and philosophical dimensions. While the terms are often used interchangeably, \"bereavement\" refers to the state of loss, and \"grief\" is the reaction to that loss.\n\nGrief is a natural response to loss. It is the emotional suffering one feels when something or someone the individual loves is taken away. The grief associated with death is familiar to most people, but individuals grieve in connection with a variety of losses throughout their lives, such as unemployment, ill health or the end of a relationship. Loss can be categorized as either physical or abstract, the physical loss being related to something that the individual can touch or measure, such as losing a spouse through death, while other types of loss are abstract, and relate to aspects of a person’s social interactions.\n\nRecently, there has been a high level of skepticism about the universal and predictable “emotional pathway” that leads from distress to “recovery” with an appreciation that grief is a more complex process of adapting to loss than stage and phase models have previously suggested. The Two-Track Model of Bereavement, created by Simon Shimshon Rubin in 1981, is a grief theory that provided deeper focus on the grieving process. The model examines the long-term effects of bereavement by measuring how well the person is adapting to the loss of a significant person in their life. The main objective of the Two-Track Model of Bereavement is for the individual to “manage and live in reality in which the deceased is absent” as well as returning to normal biological functioning. (Malkinson, 2006)\n\nTrack One is focused on the biopsychosocial functioning of grief. This focuses on the anxiety, depression, somatic concerns, traumatic responses, familial relationships, interpersonal relationships, self-esteem, meaning structure, work, and investment in life tasks. Rubin (2010) Points out, “Track 1, the range of aspects of the individuals functioning across affective, interpersonal, somatic and classical psychiatric indicators is considered”(Shimshon 686). All of the terms listed above are noted for the importance they have in relation to people’s responses to grief and loss.\n\nThe significance of the closeness between the bereaved and the deceased is important to Track 1 because this could determine the severity of the mourning and grief the bereaved will endure. This first track is the response to the extremely stressful life events and requires adaption along with change and integration.The second track focuses on the ongoing relationship you have with the deceased. Track two mainly focuses on how the bereaved was connected to the deceased and on what level of closeness was shared. The stronger the relationship to the deceased is will lead to a greater evaluation of the relationship with heightened shock. Track two brings up both the positive and negative memories that you shared with the deceased and the degree of emotional involvement you shared causing reflection.\n\nAny memory could be a trigger for the bereaved, the way the bereaved chose to remember their loved one, and how the bereaved integrate the memory of their deceased into their daily lives.\n\nTen main attributes to this track include; imagery/memory, emotional distance, positive effect, negative effect, preoccupation with the loss, conflict, idealization, memorialization/transformation of the loss, impact on self-perception and loss process (shock, searching, disorganized) (Rubin, 1999). An outcome of this track is being able to recognize how transformation has occurred beyond grief and mourning (Rubin, 1999). By outlining the main aspects of the bereavement process into two interactive tracks, individuals can examine and understand how grief has affected their life following loss and begin to adapt to this post-loss life.The Model offers a better understanding with the duration of time in the wake of one's loss and the outcomes that evolve from death. By using this model, researchers can effectively examine the response to an individual’s loss by assessing the behavioral-psychological functioning and the relationship with the deceased.\nThe authors from \"Whats Your Grief?\", Litza Williams and Eleanor Haley, state in their understanding of the clinical and therapeutic uses of the model:“in terms of functioning, this model can help the bereaved identify which areas of his/her life has been impacted by the grief in a negative way as well as areas that the bereaved has already begun to adapt to after the loss. If the bereaved is unable to return to their normal functioning as in before loss occurred, it is likely they will find difficulty in the process of working through the loss as well as their separation from the deceased.\n\nAlong the relational aspect, the bereaved can become aware of their relationship with the deceased and how it has changed or may change in the future” (Williams & Haley, 2017). “The Two-Track Model of Bereavement can help specify areas of mutuality (how people respond affectivity to trauma and change) and also difference (how bereaved people may be preoccupied with the deceased following loss compared to how they may be preoccupied with trauma following the exposure to it)” (Rubin, S.S, 1999).\n\nCrying is a normal and natural part of grieving. It has also been found, however, that crying and talking about the loss is not the only healthy response and, if forced or excessive, can be harmful. Responses or actions in the affected person, called \"coping ugly\" by researcher George Bonanno, may seem counter-intuitive or even appear dysfunctional, e.g., celebratory responses, laughter, or self-serving bias in interpreting events. Lack of crying is also a natural, healthy reaction, potentially protective of the individual, and may also be seen as a sign of resilience. Science has found that some healthy people who are grieving do not spontaneously talk about the loss. Pressing people to cry or retell the experience of a loss can be harmful. Genuine laughter is healthy.\n\nGeorge Bonanno, a professor of clinical psychology at Columbia University, conducted more than two decades of scientific studies on grief and trauma, which have been published in several papers in the most respected peer-reviewed journals in the field of psychology, such as \"Psychological Science\" and \"The Journal of Abnormal Psychology\". Subjects of his studies number in the several thousand and include people who have suffered losses in the U.S. and cross-cultural studies in various countries around the world, such as Israel, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and China. His subjects suffered losses through war, terrorism, deaths of children, premature deaths of spouses, sexual abuse, childhood diagnoses of AIDS, and other potentially devastating loss events or potential trauma events.\n\nIn Bonanno's book, \"The Other Side of Sadness: What the New Science of Bereavement Tells Us About Life After a Loss\" (), he summarizes his research.\nHis findings include that a natural resilience is the main component of grief and trauma reactions. The first researcher to use pre-loss data, he outlined four trajectories of grief. Bonanno's work has also demonstrated that absence of grief or trauma symptoms is a healthy outcome, rather than something to be feared as has been the thought and practice until his research. Because grief responses can take many forms, including laughter, celebration, and bawdiness, in addition to sadness, Bonanno coined the phrase \"coping ugly\" to describe the idea that some forms of coping may seem counter intuitive. Bonanno has found that resilience is natural to humans, suggesting that it cannot be \"taught\" through specialized programs and that there is virtually no existing research with which to design resilience training, nor is there existing research to support major investment in such things as military resilience training programs.\n\nThe four trajectories are as follows:\n\n\nThe Kübler-Ross model, commonly known as the five stages of grief, is a theory first introduced by Elisabeth Kübler-Ross in her 1969 book, \"On Death and Dying\". Based on the uncredited earlier work of John Bowlby and Colin Murray-Parkes, Kübler-Ross actually applied the stages to persons who were dying, not persons who were grieving. Her studies involved her work with the terminally ill. The popular but empirically unsupported model describes in five distinct stages how people deal with their impending death.\n\nThe five stages are:\n\n\nThe theory holds that the stages are a part of the framework that helps people learn to live without what they have lost.\n\nThe stages model, which came about in the 1960s, is a theory based on observation of people who are dying, not people who experienced the death of a loved one. This model found limited empirical support in a study by Maciejewski et al. That is that the sequence was correct although Acceptance was highest at all points throughout the persons experience. The research of George Bonanno, however, is acknowledged as debunking the five stages of grief because his large body of peer-reviewed studies show that the vast majority of people who have experienced a loss are resilient and that there are multiple trajectories following loss.\n\nStudies of fMRI scans of women from whom grief was elicited about the death of a mother or a sister in the past 5 years resulted in the conclusion that grief produced a local inflammation response as measured by salivary concentrations of pro-inflammatory cytokines. These responses were correlated with activation in the anterior cingulate cortex and orbitofrontal cortex. This activation also correlated with the free recall of grief-related word stimuli. This suggests that grief can cause stress, and that this reaction is linked to the emotional processing parts of the frontal lobe. Activation of the anterior cingulate cortex and vagus nerve is similarly implicated in the experience of heartbreak whether due to social rejection or bereavement.\n\nAmong those persons who have been bereaved within the previous three months of a given report, those who report many intrusive thoughts about the deceased show ventral amygdala and rostral anterior cingulate cortex hyperactivity to reminders of their loss. In the case of the amygdala, this links to their sadness intensity. In those individuals who avoid such thoughts, there is a related opposite type of pattern in which there is a decrease in the activation of the dorsal amgydala and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.\n\nIn those not so emotionally affected by reminders of their loss, studies of fMRI scans have been used to conclude that there is a high functional connectivity between the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and amygdala activity, suggesting that the former regulates activity in the latter. In those people who had greater intensity of sadness, there was a low functional connection between the rostal anterior cingulate cortex and amygdala activity, suggesting a lack of regulation of the former part of the brain upon the latter.\n\nFrom an evolutionary perspective, grief is perplexing because it appears costly, and it is not clear what benefits it provides the sufferer. Several researchers have proposed functional explanations for grief, attempting to solve this puzzle. Sigmund Freud argued that grief is a process of libidinal reinvestment. The griever must, Freud argued, disinvest from the deceased, which is a painful process. But this disinvestment allows the griever to use libidinal energies on other, possibly new attachments, so it provides a valuable function. John Archer, approaching grief from an attachment theory perspective, argued that grief is a byproduct of the human attachment system. Generally, a grief-type response is adaptive because it compels a social organism to search for a lost individual (e.g., a mother or a child). However, in the case of death, the response is maladaptive because the individual is not simply lost and the griever cannot reunite with the deceased. Grief, from this perspective, is a painful cost of the human capacity to form commitments.\n\nOther researchers such as Randolph Nesse have proposed that grief is a kind of psychological pain that orients the sufferer to a new existence without the deceased and creates a painful but instructive memory. If, for example, leaving an offspring alone at a watering hole led to the offspring’s death, grief creates an intensively painful memory of the event, dissuading a parent from ever again leaving an offspring alone at a watering hole. More recently, Winegard, Reynolds, Winegard, Baumeister, and Maner argued that grief might be a socially selected signal of an individual’s propensity for forming strong, committed relationships. From this social signaling perspective, grief targets old and new social partners, informing them that the griever is capable of forming strong social commitments. That is, because grief signals a person's capacity to form strong and faithful social bonds, those who displayed prolonged grief responses were preferentially chosen by alliance partners. The authors argue that throughout human evolution, grief was therefore shaped and elaborated by the social decisions of selective alliance partners.\n\nBereavement, while a normal part of life, carries a degree of risk when severe. Severe reactions affect approximately 10% to 15% of people. Severe reactions mainly occur in people with depression present before the loss event. Severe grief reactions may carry over into family relations. Some researchers have found an increased risk of marital breakup following the death of a child, for example. Others have found no increase. John James, author of the Grief Recovery Handbook and founder of the Grief Recovery Institute, reported that his marriage broke up after the death of his infant son.\n\nMany studies have looked at the bereaved in terms of increased risks for stress-related illnesses. Colin Murray Parkes in the 1960s and 1970s in England noted increased doctor visits, with symptoms such as abdominal pain, breathing difficulties, and so forth in the first six months following a death. Others have noted increased mortality rates (Ward, A.W. 1976) and Bunch et al. found a five times greater risk of suicide in teens following the death of a parent.\n\nProlonged grief disorder (PGD), formerly known as complicated grief disorder (CGD), is a pathological reaction to loss representing a cluster of empirically derived symptoms that have been associated with long-term physical and psycho-social dysfunction. Individuals with PGD experience severe grief symptoms for at least six months and are stuck in a maladaptive state. An attempt is being made to create a diagnosis category for complicated grief in the DSM-5. It is currently an \"area for further study\" in the DSM, under the name Persistent Complex Bereavement Disorder. Critics of including the diagnosis of complicated grief in the DSM-5 say that doing so will constitute characterizing a natural response as a pathology, and will result in wholesale medicating of people who are essentially normal.\n\nShear and colleagues found an effective treatment for complicated grief, by treating the reactions in the same way as trauma reactions.\n\nComplicated grief is not synonymous with grief. Complicated grief is characterised by an extended grieving period and other criteria, including mental and physical impairments. An important part of understanding complicated grief is understanding how the symptoms differ from normal grief. The Mayo Clinic states that with normal grief the feelings of loss are evident. When the reaction turns into complicated grief, however, the feelings of loss become incapacitating and continue even though time passes. The signs and symptoms characteristic of complicated grief are listed as \"extreme focus on the loss and reminders of the loved one, intense longing or pining for the deceased, problems accepting the death, numbness or detachment… bitterness about your loss, inability to enjoy life, depression or deep sadness, trouble carrying out normal routines, withdrawing from social activities, feeling that life holds no meaning or purpose, irritability or agitation, lack of trust in others.\" The symptoms seen in complicated grief are specific because the symptoms seem to be a combination of the symptoms found in separation as well as traumatic distress. They are also considered to be complicated because, unlike normal grief, these symptoms will continue regardless of the amount of time that has passed and despite treatment given from tricyclic antidepressants.\n\nIn the study \"Bereavement and Late-Life Depression: Grief and its Complications in the Elderly\" six subjects with symptoms of complicated grief were given a dose of Paroxetine, a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor, and showed a 50% decrease in their symptoms within a three-month period. The Mental Health Clinical Research team theorizes that the symptoms of complicated grief in bereaved elderly are an alternative of post-traumatic stress. These symptoms were correlated with cancer, hypertension, anxiety, depression, suicidal ideation, increased smoking, and sleep impairments at around six months after spousal death.\n\nA treatment that has been found beneficial in dealing with the symptoms associated with complicated grief is the use of serotonin specific reuptake inhibitors such as Paroxetine. These inhibitors have been found to reduce intrusive thoughts, avoidant behaviors, and hyperarousal that are associated with complicated grief. In addition psychotherapy techniques are in the process of being developed.\n\nDeath of a child can take the form of a loss in infancy such as miscarriage or stillbirth or neonatal death, SIDS, or the death of an older child. In most cases, parents find the grief almost unbearably devastating, and it tends to hold greater risk factors than any other loss. This loss also bears a lifelong process: one does not get 'over' the death but instead must assimilate and live with it. Intervention and comforting support can make all the difference to the survival of a parent in this type of grief but the risk factors are great and may include family breakup or suicide.\n\nFeelings of guilt, whether legitimate or not, are pervasive, and the dependent nature of the relationship disposes parents to a variety of problems as they seek to cope with this great loss. Parents who suffer miscarriage or a regretful or coerced abortion may experience resentment towards others who experience successful pregnancies.\n\nSuicide rates are growing worldwide and over the last thirty years there has been international research trying to curb this phenomenon and gather knowledge about who is \"at-risk\". When a parent loses their child through suicide it is traumatic, sudden and affects all loved ones impacted by this child. Suicide leaves many unanswered questions and leaves most parents feeling hurt, angry and deeply saddened by such a loss. Parents may feel they can't openly discuss their grief and feel their emotions because of how their child died and how the people around them may perceive the situation. Parents, family members and service providers have all confirmed the unique nature of suicide-related bereavement following the loss of a child. They report a wall of silence that goes up around them and how people interact towards them. One of the best ways to grieve and move on from this type of loss is to find ways to keep that child as an active part of their lives. It might be privately at first but as parents move away from the silence they can move into a more proactive healing time.\n\nThe death of a spouse is usually a particularly powerful loss. A spouse often becomes part of the other in a unique way: many widows and widowers describe losing 'half' of themselves. The days, months and years after the loss of a spouse will never be the same and learning to live without them may be harder than one would expect. The grief experience is unique to each person. Sharing and building a life with another human being, then learning to live singularly, can be an adjustment that is more complex than a person could ever expect.\n\nAfter a long marriage, at older ages, the elderly may find it a very difficult assimilation to begin anew; but at younger ages as well, a marriage relationship was often a profound one for the survivor.\n\nA factor is the manner in which the spouse died. The survivor of a spouse who died of an illness has a different experience of such loss than a survivor of a spouse who died by an act of violence. The grief, in all events, however, can always be of the most profound sort to the widow and the widower. Emotional unsteadiness, bouts of crying, helplessness and hopelessness are just a small sample of what a widow or widower can expect to face. Depression and loneliness are very common. Feeling bitter and resentful are normal feelings for the spouse who is \"left behind\". Oftentimes, the widow/widower may feel it necessary to seek professional help in dealing with their new life.\n\nFurthermore, most couples have a division of 'tasks' or 'labor', e.g., the husband mows the yard, the wife pays the bills, etc. which, in addition to dealing with great grief and life changes, means added responsibilities for the bereaved. Immediately after the death of a spouse, there are tasks that must be completed. Planning and financing a funeral can be very difficult if pre-planning was not completed. Changes in insurance, bank accounts, claiming of life insurance, securing childcare are just some of the issues that can be intimidating to someone who is grieving. Social isolation may also become imminent, as many groups composed of couples find it difficult to adjust to the new identity of the bereaved, and the bereaved themselves have great challenges in reconnecting with others. Widows of many cultures, for instance, wear black for the rest of their lives to signify the loss of their spouse and their grief. Only in more recent decades has this tradition been reduced to a period of two years, while some religions such as Christian Orthodox many widows will still continue to wear black for the remainder of their lives.\n\nFor a child, the death of a parent, without support to manage the effects of the grief, may result in long-term psychological harm. This is more likely if the adult carers are struggling with their own grief and are psychologically unavailable to the child. There is a critical role of the surviving parent or caregiver in helping the children adapt to a parent's death. Studies have shown that losing a parent at a young age did not just lead to negative outcomes; there are some positive effects. Some children had an increased maturity, better coping skills and improved communication. Adolescents valued other people more than those who have not experienced such a close loss.\n\nWhen an adult child loses a parent in later adulthood, it is considered to be \"timely\" and to be a normative life course event. This allows the adult children to feel a permitted level of grief. However, research shows that the death of a parent in an adult's midlife is not a normative event by any measure, but is a major life transition causing an evaluation of one's own life or mortality. Others may shut out friends and family in processing the loss of someone with whom they have had the longest relationship.\n\nAn adult may be expected to cope with the death of a parent in a less emotional way; however, the loss can still invoke extremely powerful emotions. This is especially true when the death occurs at an important or difficult period of life, such as when becoming a parent, at graduation, or at other times of emotional stress. It is important to recognize the effects that the loss of a parent can cause, and to address these effects. For an adult, the willingness to be open to grief is often diminished. A failure to accept and deal with loss will only result in further pain and suffering. “Mourning is the open expression of your thoughts and feelings about the death. It is an essential part of healing.”\n\nThe loss of a sibling can be a devastating life event. Despite this, sibling grief is often the most disenfranchised or overlooked of the four main forms of grief, especially with regard to adult siblings. Grieving siblings are often referred to as the 'forgotten mourners' who are made to feel as if their grief is not as severe as their parents grief (N.a., 2015). However, the sibling relationship tends to be the longest significant relationship of the lifespan and siblings who have been part of each other's lives since birth, such as twins, help form and sustain each other's identities; with the death of one sibling comes the loss of that part of the survivor's identity because “your identity is based on having them there.”\n\nThe sibling relationship is a unique one, as they share a special bond and a common history from birth, have a certain role and place in the family, often complement each other, and share genetic traits. Siblings who enjoy a close relationship participate in each other's daily lives and special events, confide in each other, share joys, spend leisure time together (whether they are children or adults), and have a relationship that not only exists in the present but often looks toward a future together (even into retirement). Surviving siblings lose this “companionship and a future” with their deceased siblings.\n\nSiblings who play a major part in each other's lives are essential to each other. Adult siblings eventually expect the loss of aging parents, the only other people who have been an integral part of their lives since birth, but they do not expect to lose their siblings early; as a result, when a sibling dies, the surviving sibling may experience a longer period of shock and disbelief.\n\nOverall, with the loss of a sibling, a substantial part of the surviving sibling's past, present, and future is also lost. If siblings were not on good terms or close with each other, then intense feelings of guilt may ensue on the part of the surviving sibling (guilt may also ensue for having survived, not being able to prevent the death, having argued with their sibling, etc.)\n\nWhen a parent or caregiver dies or leaves, children may have symptoms of psychopathology, but they are less severe than in children with major depression. The loss of a parent, grandparent or sibling can be very troubling in childhood, but even in childhood there are age differences in relation to the loss. A very young child, under one or two, may be found to have no reaction if a carer dies, but other children may be affected by the loss.\n\nAt a time when trust and dependency are formed, a break even of no more than separation can cause problems in well-being; this is especially true if the loss is around critical periods such as 8–12 months, when attachment and separation are at their height information, and even a brief separation from a parent or other person who cares for the child can cause distress.\n\nEven as a child grows older, death is still difficult to fathom and this affects how a child responds. For example, younger children see death more as a separation, and may believe death is curable or temporary. Reactions can manifest themselves in \"acting out\" behaviors: a return to earlier behaviors such as sucking thumbs, clinging to a toy or angry behavior; though they do not have the maturity to mourn as an adult, they feel the same intensity. As children enter pre-teen and teen years, there is a more mature understanding.\n\nAdolescents may respond by delinquency, or oppositely become \"over-achievers\": repetitive actions are not uncommon such as washing a car repeatedly or taking up repetitive tasks such as sewing, computer games, etc. It is an effort to stay above the grief. Childhood loss as mentioned before can predispose a child not only to physical illness but to emotional problems and an increased risk for suicide, especially in the adolescent period.\n\nChildren can experience grief as a result of losses due to causes other than death. For example, children who have been physically, psychologically or sexually abused often grieve over the damage to or the loss of their ability to trust. Since such children usually have no support or acknowledgement from any source outside the family unit, this is likely to be experienced as disenfranchised grief.\n\nRelocations can cause children significant grief particularly if they are combined with other difficult circumstances such as neglectful or abusive parental behaviors, other significant losses, etc.\n\nChildren may experience the death of a friend or a classmate through illness, accidents, suicide, or violence. Initial support involves reassuring children that their emotional and physical feelings are normal. Schools are advised to plan for these possibilities in advance.\n\nSurvivor guilt (or survivor's guilt; also called survivor syndrome or survivor's syndrome) is a mental condition that occurs when a person perceives themselves to have done wrong by surviving a traumatic event when others did not. It may be found among survivors of combat, natural disasters, epidemics, among the friends and family of those who have died by suicide, and in non-mortal situations such as among those whose colleagues are laid off.\n\nParents may grieve due to loss of children through means other than death, for example through loss of custody in divorce proceedings; legal termination of parental rights by the government, such as in cases of child abuse; through kidnapping; because the child voluntarily left home (either as a runaway or, for overage children, by leaving home legally); or because an adult refuses or is unable to have contact with a parent. This loss differs from the death of a child in that the grief process is prolonged or denied because of hope that the relationship will be restored.\n\nGrief may occur after the loss of a romantic relationship (i.e. divorce or break up), a vocation, a pet (animal loss), a home, children leaving home (empty nest syndrome), sibling(s) leaving home, a friend, a faith in one's religion, etc. A person who strongly identifies with their occupation may feel a sense of grief if they have to stop their job due to retirement, being laid off, injury, or loss of certification. Those who have experienced a loss of trust will often also experience some form of grief.\n\nMany of the above examples of bereavement happen abruptly, but there are also cases of being gradually bereft of something or someone. For example, the gradual loss of a loved one by Alzheimer's produces a “gradual grief.” \n\nThe author Kara Tippetts described her dying of cancer, as dying “by degrees”: her “body failing” and her “abilities vanishing.”\nMilton Crum, writing about gradual bereavement says that “every degree of death, every death of a person’s characteristics, every death of a person’s abilities, is a bereavement.”\n\nThe Macklin Intergenerational Institute's Xtreme Aging program has an exercise to simulate gradual bereavement. Lay out three sets of five pieces of note paper on a table. On set #1, write your five most enjoyed activities; on set #2, write your five most valued possessions; on set #3, write your five most loved people. Then “lose” them one by one, trying to feel each loss, until you have lost them all.\n\nMany people who grieve do not need professional help. Some, however, may seek additional support from licensed psychologists or psychiatrists. And support resources available to the bereaved may include grief counseling, professional support-groups or educational classes, and peer-led support groups. In the United States of America, local hospice agencies may provide a first contact for those seeking bereavement support.\n\nIt is important to recognize when grief has turned into something more serious, thus mandating contacting a medical professional. Grief can result in depression or alcohol- and drug-abuse and, if left untreated, it can become severe enough to impact daily living. It recommends contacting a medical professional if \"you can’t deal with grief, you are using excessive amounts of drugs or alcohol, you become very depressed, or you have prolonged depression that interferes with your daily life.\" Other reasons to seek medical attention may include: \"Can focus on little else but your loved one’s death, have persistent pining or longing for the deceased person, have thoughts of guilt or self-blame, believe that you did something wrong or could have prevented the death, feel as if life isn’t worth living, have lost your sense of purpose in life, wish you had died along with your loved one.\"\n\nProfessionals can use multiple ways to help someone cope and move through their grief. Hypnosis is sometimes used as an adjunct therapy in helping patients experiencing grief. Hypnosis enhances and facilitates mourning and helps patients to resolve traumatic grief.\n\nLichtenthal and Cruess (2010) studied how bereavement-specific written disclosure had benefits in helping adjust to loss, and in helping improve the effects of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), prolonged grief disorder, and depression. Directed writing helped many of the individuals who had experienced a loss of a significant relationship. It involved individuals trying to make meaning out of the loss through sense making, (making sense of what happened and the cause of the death), or through benefit finding (consideration of the global significance of the loss of one's goals, and helping the family develop a greater appreciation of life). This meaning-making can come naturally for some, but many need direct intervention to \"move on\".\n\n\nEach culture specifies manners such as rituals, styles of dress, or other habits, as well as attitudes, in which the bereaved are encouraged or expected to take part. An analysis of non-Western cultures suggests that beliefs about continuing ties with the deceased varies. In Japan, maintenance of ties with the deceased is accepted and carried out through religious rituals. In the Hopi of Arizona, the deceased are quickly forgotten and life continues on.\n\nDifferent cultures grieve in different ways, but all have ways that are vital in healthy coping with the death of a loved one. The American family's approach to grieving was depicted in \"The Grief Committee\", by T. Glen Coughlin. The short story gives an inside look at how the American culture has learned to cope with the tribulations and difficulties of grief. (The story is taught in the course, The Politics of Mourning: Grief Management in a Cross-Cultural Fiction. Columbia University)\n\nSome believe that those who have a high degree of cognitive impairment, such as an intellectual disability, are unable to process the loss of those around them, but this is untrue, those with cognitive impairments such as an intellectual disability are able to process grief in a similar manner to those without cognitive impairment. One of the main differences between those with an intellectual disability and those without, is typically the ability to verbalize their feelings about the loss, which is why non-verbal cues and changes in behavior become so important, because these are usually signs of distress and expression of grief among this population. It is important when working with individuals with these such impairments that caregivers and family members meet them where their level of functioning is and allow them to process the loss and grief with assistance given where needed, and not to ignore the grief that these individuals undergo. An important aspect of treatment of grief for those with an intellectual disability is family involvement where possible, this can be a biological family or a family created in a group home or clinical setting. By having the family involved in an open and supporting dialogue with the individual it helps them to process. However, if the family is not properly educated on how these individuals handle loss, their involvement may not be as beneficial than those who are educated. The importance of the family unit is very crucial in a soci-cognitive approach to bereavement counseling. In this approach the individual with intellectual disability has the opportunity to see how those around them handle the loss and have the opportunity to act accordingly by modeling behavior. This approach also helps the individual know that their emotions are ok and normal.\n\nPreviously it was believed that grief was only a human emotion, but studies have shown that other animals have shown grief or grief-like states during the death of another animal. This can occur between bonded animals which are animals that attempt to survive together (i.e. a pack of wolves or mated prairie voles).\n\nMammals have demonstrated grief-like states, especially between a mother and her offspring. She will often stay close to her dead offspring for short periods of time and may investigate the reasons for the baby's non-response. For example, some deer will often sniff, poke, and look at its lifeless fawn before realising it is dead and leaving it to rejoin the herd shortly afterwards. Other animals, such as a lioness, will pick up its cub in its mouth and place it somewhere else before abandoning it.\n\nWhen a baby chimpanzee or gorilla dies, the mother will carry the body around for several days before it may finally be able to move on without it; this behavior has been observed in other primates, as well. Jane Goodall has described chimpanzees as exhibiting mournful behavior toward the loss of a group member with silence and by showing more attention to it. And they will often continue grooming it and stay close to the carcass until the group must move on without it. Another notable example is Koko, a gorilla that uses sign language, who expressed sadness and even described sadness about the death of her pet cat, All Ball.\n\nElephants, have shown unusual behavior upon encountering the remains of another deceased elephant. They will often investigate it by touching and grabbing it with their trunks and have the whole herd stand around it for long periods of time until they must leave it behind. It is unknown whether they are mourning over it and showing sympathy, or are just curious and investigating the dead body. Elephants are thought to be able to discern relatives even from their remains. An episode of the acclaimed BBC Documentary Life on Earth shows this in detail - The elephants, upon finding a dead herd member, pause for several minutes at a time, and carefully touch and hold the dead creature's bones.\n\nSome birds seem to lack the perception of grief or quickly accept it- for example, Mallard hens, although shocked for a moment when losing one of their young to a predator, will soon return to doing what they were doing before the predator attacked. However, some other waterbirds, such as Mute swans, are known to grieve for the loss of a partner or cygnet, and are known to engage in pining for days, weeks or even months at a time.\n\nAnother form of grief in animals is when an individual loses its mate; this can be especially brutal when the species is monogamous. So when a pair bonding species, such as a black-backed jackal, loses its mate it can be very difficult for it to detach itself from its dead mate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "150095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=150095", "title": "Harpo Marx", "text": "Harpo Marx\n\nArthur \"Harpo\" Marx (born Adolph Marx; November 23, 1888 – September 28, 1964) was an American comedian, actor, mime artist, and musician, and the second-oldest of the Marx Brothers. In contrast to the mainly verbal comedy of his brothers Groucho Marx and Chico Marx, Harpo's comic style was visual, being an example of both clown and pantomime traditions. He wore a curly reddish blonde wig, and never spoke during performances (he blew a horn or whistled to communicate). He frequently used props such as a horn cane, made up of a lead pipe, tape, and a bulbhorn, and he played the harp in most of his films.\n\nHarpo was born on November 23, 1888 in Manhattan. He grew up in a neighborhood now known as Carnegie Hill on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, on East 93rd Street off Lexington Avenue. The turn-of-the-century tenement that Harpo later called (in his memoir \"Harpo Speaks!\") \"the first real home I can remember\" was populated with European immigrants, mostly artisans—which even included a glass blower. Just across the street were the oldest brownstones in the area, owned by people like David L. Loew and William Orth.\n\nHarpo's parents were Sam Marx (called \"Frenchie\" throughout his life) and his wife, Minnie Schoenberg Marx. Minnie's brother was Al Shean. Marx's family was Jewish. His mother was from East Frisia in Germany, and his father was a native of Alsace in France and worked as a tailor.\n\nHarpo received little formal education and left grade school at age eight (mainly due to bullying) during his second attempt to pass the second grade. He began to work, gaining employment in numerous odd jobs alongside his brother Chico to contribute to the family income, including selling newspapers, working in a butcher shop, and as an errand office boy.\n\nIn January 1910, Harpo joined two of his brothers, Julius (later \"Groucho\") and Milton (later \"Gummo\"), to form \"The Three Nightingales\", later changed to simply \"The Marx Brothers\". Multiple stories—most unsubstantiated—exist to explain Harpo's evolution as the \"silent\" character in the brothers' act. In his memoir, Groucho wrote that Harpo simply wasn't very good at memorizing dialogue, and thus was ideal for the role of the \"dunce who couldn't speak\", a common character in vaudeville acts of the time.\n\nHarpo gained his stage name during a card game at the Orpheum Theatre in Galesburg, Illinois. The dealer (Art Fisher) called him \"Harpo\" because he played the harp. He learned how to hold it properly from a picture of an angel playing a harp that he saw in a five-and-dime. No one in town knew how to play the harp, so Harpo tuned it as best he could, starting with one basic note and tuning it from there. Three years later he found out he had tuned it incorrectly, but he could not have tuned it properly; if he had, the strings would have broken each night. Harpo's method placed much less tension on the strings. Although he played this way for the rest of his life, he did try to learn how to play correctly, and he spent considerable money hiring the best teachers. They spent their time listening to him, fascinated by the way he played. The major exception was Mildred Dilling, a professional harpist who did teach Harpo the proper techniques of the instrument and collaborated with him regularly when he had difficulty with various compositions.\n\nIn the autobiography \"Harpo Speaks\" (1961), he recounts how Chico found him jobs playing piano to accompany silent movies. Unlike Chico, Harpo could play only two songs on the piano, \"Waltz Me Around Again, Willie\" and \"Love Me and the World Is Mine,\" but he adapted this small repertoire in different tempos to suit the action on the screen. He was also seen playing a portion of Rachmaninoff's \"Prelude in C# minor\" in \"A Day at the Races\" and chords on the piano in \"A Night at the Opera\", in such a way that the piano sounded much like a harp, as a prelude to actually playing the harp in that scene.\n\nHarpo had changed his name from Adolph to Arthur by 1911. This was due primarily to his dislike for the name Adolph (as a child, he was routinely called \"Ahdie\" instead). The name change may have also happened because of the similarity between Harpo's name and Adolph Marks, a prominent show business attorney in Chicago. Urban legends stating that the name change came about during World War I due to anti-German sentiment in the US, or during World War II because of the stigma that Adolf Hitler imposed on the name, are groundless.\n\nHis first screen appearance was in the film \"Humor Risk\" (1921), with his brothers, although according to Groucho, it was only screened once and then lost. Four years later, Harpo appeared without his brothers in \"Too Many Kisses\", four years before the brothers' first released film, \"The Cocoanuts\" (1929). In \"Too Many Kisses\", Harpo spoke the only line he would ever speak on-camera in a movie: \"You sure you can't move?\" (said to the film's tied-up hero before punching him). Fittingly, it was a silent movie, and the audience saw only his lips move and the line on a title card.\n\nHarpo was often cast as Chico's eccentric partner-in-crime, whom he would often help by playing charades to tell of Groucho's problem, and/or annoy by giving Chico his leg, either to give it a rest or as an alternative to a handshake.\nHarpo became known for prop-laden sight gags, in particular the seemingly infinite number of odd things stored in his topcoat's oversized pockets. In the film \"Horse Feathers\" (1932), Groucho, referring to an impossible situation, tells Harpo that he cannot \"burn the candle at both ends.\" Harpo immediately produces from within his coat pocket a lit candle burning at both ends. In the same film, a homeless man on the street asks Harpo for money for a cup of coffee, and he subsequently produces a steaming cup, complete with saucer, from inside his coat. In \"Duck Soup\", he produces a lit blowtorch to light a cigar. As author Joe Adamson put in his book, \"Groucho, Harpo, Chico and Sometimes Zeppo\", \"The president of the college has been shouted down by a mute.\"\n\nHarpo often used facial expressions and mime to get his point across. One of his facial expressions, which he used in every Marx Brothers film and stage play, beginning with \"Fun in Hi Skule\", was known as \"the Gookie.\" Harpo created it by mimicking the expression of Mr. Gehrke, a New York tobacconist who would make a similar face while concentrating on rolling cigars.\n\nHarpo further distinguished his character by wearing a \"fright wig\". Early in his career it was dyed pink, as evidenced by color film posters of the time and by allusions to it in films, with character names such as \"Pinky\" in \"Duck Soup\". It tended to show as blonde on-screen due to the black-and-white film stock at the time. Over time, he darkened the pink to more of a reddish color, again alluded to in films with character names such as \"Rusty\".\n\nHis non-speaking in his early films was occasionally referred to by the other Marx Brothers, who were careful to imply that his character's not speaking was a choice rather than a disability. They would make joking reference to this part of his act. For example, in \"Animal Crackers\" his character was ironically dubbed \"The Professor\". In \"The Cocoanuts\", this exchange occurred:\n\nIn later films, Harpo was put into situations where he would repeatedly attempt to convey a vital message to another person, but only did so through nonverbal means, usually by whistling or pantomime. These scenes reinforced the idea that the character was unable to speak.\n\nIn 1933, following U.S. diplomatic recognition of the Soviet Union, he spent six weeks in Moscow as a performer and goodwill ambassador. His tour was a huge success. Harpo's name was transliterated into Russian, using the Cyrillic alphabet, as ХАРПО МАРКС, and was billed as such during his Soviet Union appearances. Harpo, having no knowledge of Russian, pronounced it as 'Exapno Mapcase'. At that time Harpo and the Soviet Foreign Minister Maxim Litvinov became friends and even performed a routine on stage together. During this time he served as a secret courier; delivering communiques to and from the US embassy in Moscow at the request of Ambassador William Christian Bullitt, Jr., smuggling the messages in and out of Russia by taping a sealed envelope to his leg beneath his trousers, an event described in David Fromkin's 1995 book \"In the Time of the Americans\". In \"Harpo Speaks\", Marx describes his relief at making it out of the Soviet Union, recalling how \"I pulled up my pants, ripped off the tape, unwound the straps, handed over the dispatches from Ambassador Bullitt, and gave my leg its first scratch in ten days.\"\n\nThe Russia trip was later memorialized in a bizarre science fiction novella, \"The Foreign Hand Tie\" by Randall Garrett, a tale of telepathic spies which is full of references to the Marx Brothers and their films. (The title itself is a Marx-like pun on the dual ideas of a \"foreign hand\" and a style of neckwear known as a \"four-in-hand tie.\")\n\nIn 1936, he was one of a number of performers and celebrities to appear as caricatures in the Walt Disney Production of \"Mickey's Polo Team\". Harpo was part of a team of polo-playing movie stars which included Charlie Chaplin and Laurel and Hardy. His mount was an ostrich. Walt Disney would later have Harpo (with Groucho and Chico) appear as one of King Cole's \"Fiddlers Three\" in the Silly Symphony \"Mother Goose Goes Hollywood\".\n\nHarpo was also caricatured in \"Sock-A-Bye Baby\" (1934), an early episode of the \"Popeye\" cartoon series created by Fleischer Studios. Harpo is playing the harp, and wakes up Popeye's baby, and then Popeye kills him. (After Popeye hits him, a halo appears over his head and he floats to the sky.)\n\nFriz Freleng's 1936 Merrie Melodies cartoon \"The Coo-Coo Nut Grove\" featuring animal versions of assorted celebrities, caricatures Harpo as a bird with a red beak. When he first appears, he is chasing a woman, but the woman later turns out to be Groucho.\n\nHarpo also took an interest in painting, and a few of his works can be seen in his autobiography. In the book, Marx tells a story about how he tried to paint a nude female model, but froze up because he simply did not know how to paint properly. The model took pity on him, however, showing him a few basic strokes with a brush, until finally Harpo (fully clothed) took the model's place as the subject and the naked woman painted \"his\" portrait.\n\nIn 1955, Harpo made an appearance on the sitcom \"I Love Lucy,\" in which he and Lucille Ball re-enacted the famous mirror scene from the Marx Brothers movie \"Duck Soup\" (1933). In this scene, they are both supposed to be Harpo, not Groucho; he stays the same and she is dressed as him. About this time, he also appeared on NBC's \"The Martha Raye Show\".\n\nHarpo recorded an album of harp music for RCA Victor (\"Harp by Harpo\", 1952) and two for Mercury Records (\"Harpo in Hi-Fi\", 1957; \"Harpo at Work\", 1958).\n\nHarpo and Chico played a television anthology episode of \"General Electric Theater\" entitled \"The Incredible Jewelry Robbery\" entirely in pantomime in 1959, with a brief surprise appearance by Groucho at the end.\n\nHarpo made television appearances in the 1960s. In 1960, he appeared with Ernest Truex in an episode of \"The DuPont Show with June Allyson\" entitled \"A Silent Panic\". He played a deaf-mute who, as a \"mechanical man\" in a department store window, witnessed a gangland murder. In 1961, he made guest appearances on \"The Today Show\", \"Play Your Hunch\", \"Candid Camera\", \"I've Got a Secret\", \"Here's Hollywood\", \"Art Linkletter's House Party\", Groucho's quiz show \"You Bet Your Life\", \"The Ed Sullivan Show\", and \"Your Surprise Package\".\n\nIn November 1961 he guest-starred with Carol Burnett in an installment of \"The DuPont Show of the Week\" entitled \"The Wonderful World of Toys\". The show was filmed in Central Park and featured Marx playing \"Autumn Leaves\" on the harp. Other stars appearing in the episode included Eva Gabor, Audrey Meadows, Mitch Miller and Milton Berle. A visit to the set inspired poet Robert Lowell to compose a poem about Marx.\n\nHarpo's two final television appearances came less than a month apart in late 1962. He portrayed a guardian angel on CBS's \"The Red Skelton Show\" on September 25. He guest starred as himself on October 20 in the episode \"Musicale\" of ABC's \"Mr. Smith Goes to Washington\", a sitcom starring Fess Parker, based on the 1939 Frank Capra film.\n\nHarpo married actress Susan Fleming on September 28, 1936. The wedding became public knowledge after President Franklin D. Roosevelt sent the couple a telegram of congratulations the following month. Harpo's marriage, like Gummo's, was lifelong. (Groucho was divorced three times, Zeppo twice, Chico once.) The couple adopted four children: Bill, Alex, Jimmy, and Minnie. When he was asked by George Burns in 1948 how many children he planned to adopt, he answered, \"I’d like to adopt as many children as I have windows in my house. So when I leave for work, I want a kid in every window, waving goodbye.\"\n\nHarpo was good friends with theater critic Alexander Woollcott, and became a regular member of the Algonquin Round Table. He once said his main contribution was to be the audience for the quips of other members. In their play \"The Man Who Came to Dinner\", George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart based the character of \"Banjo\" on Harpo. Harpo later played the role in Los Angeles opposite Woollcott, who had inspired the character of Sheridan Whiteside.\nIn 1961 Harpo published his autobiography, \"Harpo Speaks\". Because he never spoke a word in character, many believed he actually was mute. In fact, radio and TV news recordings of his voice can be found on the Internet, in documentaries, and on bonus materials of Marx Brothers DVDs. A reporter who interviewed him in the early 1930s wrote that \"he [Harpo] ... had a deep and distinguished voice, like a professional announcer\", and like his brothers, spoke with a New York accent his entire life. According to those who personally knew him, Harpo's voice was much deeper than Groucho's, but it also sounded very similar to Chico's. His son, Bill, recalled that in private Harpo had a very deep and mature soft-spoken voice, but that he was \"not verbose\" like the other Marx brothers; Harpo preferred listening and learning from others.\n\nHarpo's final public appearance came on January 19, 1963 with singer/comedian Allan Sherman. Sherman burst into tears when Harpo announced his retirement from the entertainment business. Comedian Steve Allen, who was in the audience, remembered that Harpo spoke for several minutes about his career, and how he would miss it all, and repeatedly interrupted Sherman when he tried to speak. The audience found it charmingly ironic, Allen said, that Harpo, who had never before spoken on stage or screen, \"wouldn't shut up!\" Harpo, an avid croquet player, was inducted into the Croquet Hall of Fame in 1979.\n\nHarpo Marx died on September 28, 1964 (his 28th wedding anniversary), at age 75 in a West Los Angeles hospital, one day after undergoing heart surgery. Harpo's death was said to have hit the surviving Marx brothers very hard. Groucho's son Arthur Marx, who attended the funeral with most of the Marx family, later said that Harpo's funeral was the only time in his life that he ever saw his father cry. In his will, Harpo Marx donated his trademark harp to the State of Israel. His remains were cremated, and his ashes were scattered at a golf course in Rancho Mirage, California.\n\nHarpo is most known for his signature outfit: trench coat with over-large pockets, red wig (he switched to a blonde one for every film after \"The Cocoanuts\"), top hat, and a comical horn heard in his movies. He was also well known for playing the harp, though he could not read music. Outside the professional harp community, he remains one of the best \"ambassadors for the harp\" the world has known. In time, his talent earned him an international reputation as he performed in movies as well as in stage shows around the globe.\n\nIn 2002, a Golden Palm Star on the Palm Springs, California, Walk of Stars was dedicated to him.\n\nMarx was portrayed by the actor J.M. Henry in the film \"Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle\".\n\nMarx was portrayed by actor Daniel Fortus in the Broadway production of \"Minnie's Boys\", a Broadway musical that ran for 64 performances at the Imperial Theatre from March to May 1970. The show focused on the early days of the Marx Brothers' act and the importance of their mother Minnie's strong hand in guiding and molding them into a successful vaudeville and film comedy team.\n\nActress Patricia Lopez played Harpo in a send-up of Hollywood movie making, the 1980 Broadway production, \"A Day in Hollywood/A Night in the Ukraine\", for which she won a Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Musical.\n\nHe was also portrayed by Les Marsden in \"\", which appeared off-Broadway at the Lucille Lortel Theatre. The show ran for 264 performances from October 1986 through May 1987.\n\nJonathan Richman references Harpo in his song \"When Harpo Played His Harp\".\n\nLemon Demon references Harpo Marx in the song \"Vow of Silence\".\n\nPhoebe Snow's \"Harpo's Blues\" (1975) was written about \"a guy in a band who \"became\" Harpo Marx ... he wouldn't talk, and his eyes would roll around ... \"\n\nIn the 1974 Academy Awards telecast, Jack Lemmon presented Groucho with an honorary Academy Award to a standing ovation. The award was also on behalf of Harpo, Chico, and Zeppo, whom Lemmon mentioned by name. It was one of Groucho's final major public appearances. \"I wish that Harpo and Chico could be here to share with me this great honor,\" he said, naming the two deceased brothers (Zeppo was still alive at the time). Groucho also praised the late Margaret Dumont as a great straight woman who never understood any of his jokes.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44089226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44089226", "title": "Heterostasis (cybernetics)", "text": "Heterostasis (cybernetics)\n\nHeterostasis is a medical term. It is a neologism coined by Walter Cannon intended to connote an alternative but related meaning to its lexical sibling Homeostasis, which means 'same state'. Any device, organ, system or organism capable of Heterostasis (multistable behavior) can be represented by an abstract state machine composed of a characteristic set of related, interconnected states, linked dynamically by change processes allowing transition between states. \n\nAlthough the term 'Heterostasis' is an obvious rearrangement (by syntactically substituting the prefix 'Hetero-' for its dichotome 'Homeo-', and likewise swapping the semantic reference, from 'same'/'single' to 'different'/'many'), the endocrinologist Hans Selye is generally credited with its invention. An excellent overview of the two concepts is contained in the Cambridge Handbook of Psychophysiology, Chapter 19. Selye's ideas were used by Gunther et al., in which dimensionless numbers (allometric invariance analysis) were used to investigate the existence of heterostasis in canine cardiovascular systems.\n\nThe equivalent term Allostasis is used in biological contexts, where state change is analog (continuous), but Heterostasis is sometimes preferred for systems which possess a finite number of distinct (discrete) internal states, such as those containing computational processes. The term Servomechanism is usually used in industrial/mechanical situations (non-biological and non-computational) where it often applies to analog state change, e.g. in a Direct Current Servomotor.\n"}
{"id": "6271847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6271847", "title": "Integral humanism (India)", "text": "Integral humanism (India)\n\nIntegral humanism Integral Humanism was a set of concepts drafted by Deendayal Upadhyaya as political program and adopted in 1965 as the official doctrine of the Jan Sangh. Upadhyaya borrowed the Gandhian principles such as sarvodaya (progress of all), swadeshi (Indianisation), and Gram Swaraj (village self rule) and these principles were appropriated selectively to give more importance to cultural-national values. These values were based on an individual's undisputed subservience to nation as a corporate entity. Richard Fox has characterised this as \"ideological hijacking\" and a \"transplant\" that was designed with a purpose to appropriate the authority that the Gandhian idioms had on Indian politics. \n\nGolwalkar believed in the concept of Organicism, from which the Integral Humanism was not very different. In Integral Humanism, Golwalkar's thoughts were supplemented by appropriating major Gandhian principles and presented as version of Hindu Nationalism. The objective of this version was to erase the image of Jan Sangh from 'communal' and modify it to a milder, spiritual, and non aggressive image that favours equality in society. The creation and adoption of these concepts helped to suit the major discourses in the Indian political arena of 1960s and 1970s. This highlighted efforts to portray the Jan Sangh and Hindu nationalist movement as a high profile right fringe of the Indian political mainstream. A major change here in compared to Golwalkar's works was the use of the word \"Bhartiya\" which Richard Fox had translated as \"Hindian\", combination of Hindu Indian. Due to the official secularism in politics, it had become impossible to invoke explicit reference to \"Hindu\" and the usage of the word Bhartiya allowed to circumvent this political reality.\n\nUpadhyaya considered that it was of utmost importance for India to develop an indigenous economic model with human being at center stage. This approach made this concept different from Socialism and Capitalism. Integral Humanism was adopted as Jan Sangh's political doctrine and its new openness to other opposition forces made it possible for the hindu nationalist movement to have an alliance in the early 1970s with the prominent Gandhian Sarvodaya movement going on under the leadership of J. P. Narayan. This was considered as the first major public breakthrough for the hindu nationalist movement.\n\nAccording to Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya, the primary concern in India should be to develop an indigenous development model that has human beings as its core focus. \n\nIt is opposed to both western capitalist individualism and Marxist socialism, though welcoming to western science. It seeks a middle ground between capitalism and socialism, evaluating both systems on their respective merits, while being critical of their excesses and alienness.\n\nHumankind, according to Upadhyaya, had four hierarchically organized attributes of body, mind, intellect and soul which corresponded to the four universal objectives of dharma (moral duties), artha (wealth), kama (desire or satisfaction), and moksha (total liberation or 'salvation'). While none could be ignored, dharma is the 'basic', and moksha the 'ultimate' objective of humankind and society. He claimed that the problem with both capitalist and socialist ideologies is that they only consider the needs of body and mind, and were hence based on the materialist objectives of desire and wealth.\n\nUpadhyaya rejected social systems in which individualism 'reigned supreme'. He also rejected communism in which individualism was 'crushed' as part of a 'large heartless machine'. Society, according to Upadhyaya, rather than arising from a social contract between individuals, was fully born at its inception itself as a natural living organism with a definitive 'national soul' or 'ethos' and its needs of the social organism paralleled those of the individual.\n\nUpadhyaya was of the opinion that Integral Humanism followed the tradition of advaita developed by Adi Sankara. Non-dualism represented the unifying principle of every object in the universe, and of which humankind was a part. This, claimed Upadhyaya, was the essence and contribution of Indian culture.\n\nIntegral humanism is almost an exact paraphrase of Gandhi's vision of a future India. Both seek a distinctive path for India, both reject the materialism of socialism and capitalism alike, both reject the individualism of modern society in favor of a holistic, varna-dharma based community, both insist upon an infusion of religious and moral values in politics, and both seek a culturally authentic mode of modernization that preserves Hindu values.\n\nIntegral humanism contains visions organized around two themes: morality in politics and swadeshi, and small-scale industrialization in economies, all Gandhian in their general thematic but distinctly Hindu nationalist. These notions revolve around the basic themes of harmony, primacy of cultural-national values, and discipline.\n\nUpadhyaya rejects Nehruvian economic policies and industrialization on the grounds that they were borrowed uncritically from the West, in disregard of the cultural and spiritual heritage of the country. There is a need, according to Upadhyaya, to strike a balance between the Indian and Western thinking in view of the dynamic nature of the society and the cultural heritage of the country. The Nehruvian model of economic development, emphasizing the increase of material wealth through rapid industrialization, promoted consumerism in Indian society. Not only has this ideology of development created social disparities and regional imbalances in economic growth, but it has failed to alleviate poverty in the country. The philosophy of integral humanism, like Gandhism, opposes unbridled consumerism, since such an ideology is alien to Indian culture. This traditional culture stresses putting restraints on one's desires and advocates contentment rather than ruthless pursuit of material wealth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40511513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40511513", "title": "Jamie A. Davies", "text": "Jamie A. Davies\n\nJamie A. Davies is a British scientist, Professor of Experimental Anatomy at the University of Edinburgh, and leader of a laboratory in its Centre for Integrative Physiology. He works in the fields of Developmental biology, Synthetic biology, and Tissue engineering. He is also Principal Investigator for the IUPHAR/BPS Guide to Pharmacology database.\n\nDavies received his BA, MA, and, in 1989, D. Phil, all at University of Cambridge. He then took up post doctoral fellowships first at the University of Manchester, and then at the University of Southampton before being appointed to Edinburgh. He was initially appointed in 1995 as a lecturer, rising to senior lecturer, reader, and finally professor.\n\nDavies was the founding editor of the journal\" Organogenesis\" and is on the editorial boards of Journal of Anatomy, and Nephron. He is a fellow of the Society of Biology, the Royal Society of Medicine, the Higher Education Academy and the Royal Society of Arts. He is also a member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, and deputy Chairman for the National Centre for 3Rs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "236473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236473", "title": "Jim Garrison", "text": "Jim Garrison\n\nJames Carothers Garrison (born Earling Carothers Garrison; November 20, 1921 – October 21, 1992) was the District Attorney of Orleans Parish, Louisiana, from 1962 to 1973. A member of the Democratic Party, he is best known for his investigations into the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. He was portrayed by Kevin Costner in Oliver Stone's \"JFK\", while Garrison himself portrayed Earl Warren.\n\nEarling Carothers Garrison was born in Denison, Iowa. He was the first child and only son of Earling R. Garrison and Jane Anne Robinson who divorced when he was two-years old. His family moved to New Orleans in his childhood, where he was raised by his divorced mother. He served in the U.S. Army during World War II, having joined the year before the attacks on Pearl Harbor. After the war he obtained a law degree from Tulane University Law School in 1949. He then worked for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for two years. During the Korean War era Garrison joined the National Guard even applying for active duty, he was then relieved of duty, remaining in the Guard when it became apparent that he suffered from shell shock due to his numerous bombing missions flown during WWII. Leading one Army doctor to conclude that Garrison had a \"severe and disabling psychoneurosis\" which \"interfered with his social and professional adjustment to a marked degree. He is considered totally incapacitated from the standpoint of military duty and moderately incapacitated in civilian adaptability.\" Yet when his record was reviewed further by the U.S. Army Surgeon General, he \"found him to be physically qualified for federal recognition in the national army.\"\n\nGarrison worked for New Orleans law firm Deutsch, Kerrigan & Stiles from 1954 to 1958, when he became an assistant district attorney. Garrison became a flamboyant, colorful, well-known figure in New Orleans, but was initially unsuccessful in his run for public office, losing a 1959 election for criminal court judge. In 1961 he ran for district attorney, winning against incumbent Richard Dowling by 6,000 votes in a five-man Democratic primary. Despite lack of major political backing, his performance in a televised debate and last minute television commercials are credited with his victory.\n\nOnce in office, Garrison cracked down on prostitution and the abuses of Bourbon Street bars and strip joints. He indicted Dowling and one of his assistants for criminal malfeasance, but the charges were dismissed for lack of evidence. Garrison did not appeal. Garrison received national attention for a series of vice raids in the French Quarter, staged sometimes on a nightly basis. Newspaper headlines in 1962 praised Garrison's efforts, \"Quarter Crime Emergency Declared by Police, DA. – Garrison Back, Vows Vice Drive to Continue – 14 Arrested, 12 more nabbed in Vice Raids.\" Garrison's critics often point out that many of the arrests made by his office did not result in convictions, implying that he was in the habit of making arrests without evidence. However, assistant DA William Alford has said that charges would more often than not be reduced or dropped if a relative of someone charged gained Garrison's ear. Alford said Garrison had \"a heart of gold.\"\n\nAfter a conflict with local criminal judges over his budget, he accused them of racketeering and conspiring against him. The eight judges charged him with misdemeanor criminal defamation, and Garrison was convicted in January 1963. In 1964 the U.S. Supreme Court overturned the conviction and struck down the state statute as unconstitutional. At the same time, Garrison indicted Judge Bernard Cocke with criminal malfeasance and, in two trials prosecuted by Garrison himself, Cocke was acquitted.\n\nGarrison charged nine policemen with brutality, but dropped the charges two weeks later. At a press conference he accused the state parole board of accepting bribes, but could obtain no indictments. Critical of the state legislature, Garrison was unanimously censured by it for \"deliberately maligning all of the members\".\n\nIn 1965, running for reelection against Judge Malcolm O'Hara, Garrison won with 60 percent of the vote.\n\nAs New Orleans D.A., Garrison began an investigation into the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in late 1966, after receiving several tips from Jack Martin that a man named David Ferrie may have been involved in the assassination. The end result of Garrison's investigation was the arrest and trial of New Orleans businessman Clay Shaw in 1969, with Shaw being unanimously acquitted less than one hour after the case went to the jury.\n\nGarrison was able to subpoena the Zapruder film from \"Life\" magazine. Thus, members of the American public - i.e. the jurors of the case - were shown the movie for the first time. Until the trial, the film had rarely been seen, and bootleg copies were made by assassination investigators working with Garrison, which led to the film's wider distribution. In 2015, Garrison's lead investigator's daughter released his copy of the film, along with a number of his personal papers from the investigation.\n\nGarrison's key witness against Clay Shaw was Perry Russo, a 25-year-old insurance salesman from Baton Rouge, Louisiana. At the trial, Russo testified that he had attended a party at anti-Castro activist David Ferrie's apartment. At the party, Russo said that Lee Harvey Oswald (who Russo said was introduced to him as \"Leon Oswald\"), David Ferrie, and \"Clem Bertrand\" (who Russo identified in the courtroom as Clay Shaw) had discussed killing President Kennedy. The conversation included plans for the \"triangulation of crossfire\" and alibis for the participants.\n\nRusso's version of events has been questioned by some historians and researchers, such as Patricia Lambert, once it became known that part of his testimony might have been induced by hypnotism, and by the drug sodium pentothal (sometimes called \"truth serum\"). An early version of Russo's testimony (as told in Assistant D.A. Andrew Sciambra's memo, before Russo was subjected to sodium pentothal and hypnosis) fails to mention an \"assassination party\" and says that Russo met Clay Shaw on two occasions, neither of which occurred at the party. However, in his book \"On the Trail of the Assassins\", Garrison says that Russo had already discussed the party at Ferrie's apartment before any \"truth serum\" was administered. Throughout his life Russo reiterated the same account of being present for a party at Ferrie's house where the subject of Kennedy's potential assassination had come up.\n\nJim Garrison defended his conduct regarding witness testimony, stating:\n\nBefore we introduced the testimony of our witnesses, we made them undergo independent verifying tests, including polygraph examination, truth serum and hypnosis. We thought this would be hailed as an unprecedented step in jurisprudence; instead, the press turned around and hinted that we had drugged our witnesses or given them posthypnotic suggestions to testify falsely.\n\nIn January 1968, Garrison subpoenaed Kerry Wendell Thornley – an acquaintance of Oswald's from their days in the military – to appear before a grand jury, questioning him about his relationship with Oswald and his knowledge of other figures Garrison believed to be connected to the assassination. Thornley sought a cancellation of this subpoena on which he had to appear before the Circuit Court. Garrison charged Thornley with perjury after Thornley denied that he had been in contact with Oswald in any manner since 1959. The perjury charge was eventually dropped by Garrison's successor Harry Connick Sr.\n\nDuring Garrison's 1973 bribery trial, tape recordings from March 1971 revealed that Garrison considered publicly implicating former United States Air Force General and Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency Charles Cabell of conspiracy in the assassination of Kennedy after learning he was the brother of Earle Cabell, the Dallas mayor in 1963. Theorizing that a plot to kill the president was masterminded out of New Orleans in conjunction with the CIA with cooperation from the Dallas police department and city government, Garrison tasked his chief investigator, Pershing Gervais, of looking into the possibility that General Cabell had stayed in the city's Fontainebleau Motel at the time of the assassination. \"The Washington Post\" reported that there was no evidence that Gervais ever followed through with the request and that there was no further mention of General Cabell in Garrison's investigation.\n\nUS talk radio host David Mendelsohn conducted a comprehensive interview with Jim Garrison which was broadcast in 1988 by KPFA in Berkeley, California. Alongside Garrison, the program featured the voices of Lee Harvey Oswald and JFK filmmaker Oliver Stone. Garrison explains that cover stories were circulated in an attempt to blame the killing on the Cubans and the Mafia but he blames the conspiracy to kill the president firmly on the CIA who wanted to continue the Cold War.\n\nIn 1973, Garrison was tried and found not guilty by the jury for accepting bribes to protect illegal pinball machine operations. The prosecutor was Gerald J. Gallinghouse of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, who was seeking to halt public corruption. Pershing Gervais, Garrison's former chief investigator, testified that Garrison had received approximately $3,000 every two months for nine years from the dealers. Acting as his own defense attorney, Garrison called the allegations baseless and claimed that they were concocted as part of a U.S. government effort to destroy him because of Garrison's efforts to implicate the CIA in the Kennedy assassination. The jury found Garrison not guilty. In an interview conducted by New Orleans reporter Rosemary James with Pershing Gervais, James alleged Gervais had admitted to concocting the charges.\n\nIn the same year, Garrison was defeated for reelection as district attorney by Harry Connick Sr. On April 15, 1978, Garrison won a special election over a Republican candidate, Thomas F. Jordan, for Louisiana's 4th Circuit Court of Appeal judgeship, a position for which he was later reelected and which he held until his death.\n\nIn 1987, Garrison appeared as himself in the film \"The Big Easy\", and was featured in The Men Who Killed Kennedy series, beginning in 1988.\n\nAfter the Shaw trial, Garrison wrote three books on the Kennedy assassination, \"A Heritage of Stone\" (1970), \"The Star Spangled Contract\" (1976, fiction, but based on the JFK assassination), and his best-seller, \"On the Trail of the Assassins\" (1988). \"A Heritage of Stone\", published by Putnam, places responsibility for the assassination on the CIA and says the Warren Commission, the Executive Branch, members of the Dallas Police Department, the pathologists at Bethesda, and various others lied to the American public. The book does not mention Shaw or Garrison's investigation of Shaw.\n\nGarrison's investigation again received widespread attention through Oliver Stone's 1991 film, \"JFK\", which was largely based on Garrison's book as well as Jim Marrs' \"Crossfire: The Plot That Killed Kennedy\". Kevin Costner played a fictionalized version of Garrison in the movie. Garrison himself had a small on-screen role in the film, playing United States Supreme Court Chief Justice Earl Warren. Garrison also appears live and comments on the Shaw Trial in the documentary \"\", written and directed by actor John Barbour.\n\nGarrison died of cancer in 1992, survived by his five children. He is interred at Metairie Cemetery in New Orleans.\n\nPolitical analyst Carl Oglesby was quoted as saying, \"... I have done a study of Garrison: I come out of it thinking that he is one of the really first-rate class-act heroes of this whole ugly story [the killing of John F. Kennedy and subsequent investigation], which suffers so badly for heroes.\" Libertarian theorist Murray Rothbard stated that \"Garrison, one of the most viciously smeared figures in modern political history, was simply a district attorney trying to do his job in the most important criminal case of our time.\"\n\nBesides pro-Warren Commission writers like Gerald Posner, other pro-conspiracy writers criticized Garrison for being reckless. However, several researchers, including Jim DiEugenio, publisher of KennedysandKing.com, Gerry Campeau of JFKFacts.org, William Davy, and Joan Mellen have all defended Garrison. Jim Garrison has a song written about him by country musician Johnny Rebel about his work investigating the assassination of President John F Kennedy called \"Keep Working Big Jim\".\n\nGarrison came under contemporary criticism from writers including Sylvia Meagher, who in 1967 wrote: \n\n... as the Garrison investigation continued to unfold, it gave cause for increasingly serious misgivings about the validity of his evidence, the credibility of his witnesses, and the scrupulousness of his methods. The fact that many critics of the Warren Report have remained passionate advocates of the Garrison investigation, even condoning tactics which they might not condone on the part of others, is a matter of regret and disappointment. \n\nAccording to Clay Shaw's defense team, witnesses, including Perry Russo, claimed to have been bribed and threatened with perjury and contempt of court charges by Garrison in order to make his case against Shaw. However, in a later interview with public radio, Perry Russo stated: \n\nWell the truth of the matter was that Garrison was very sincere. Well, [NBC News reporter and ex FBI Agent] Walter Sheridan tells me and threatens me that he's gonna take Garrison out and take me with him. ... And he says [if] you do that [revoke his testimony] we won't go after you.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19914669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19914669", "title": "Joseph Burstyn", "text": "Joseph Burstyn\n\nJoseph Burstyn (born Jossel Lejba Bursztyn; December 15, 1899 – November 29, 1953) was a Polish-American film distributor who specialized in the commercial release of foreign-language and American independent film productions.\n\nBurstyn was born as Jossel Bursztyn in Sokoły, Poland in 1899. On May 7, 1921, he arrived in the U.S. with his family, parents Pinches Herszko (a merchant) and Gittel \"Gitla\" Rotbart, and siblings Chaim Kielman, Cypa, Berko, Joel Szloma and Bejla. The family settled in Cleveland, where an aunt lived. His legal name was Joseph Burstein but he later spelled it Burstyn. He became a U.S. citizen in 1934. He initially worked as a public relations representative for the Yiddish theater circuit in New York City before becoming active in film distribution with business partner Arthur Mayer from the late 1930s to the late 1940s.\n\nHis most famous releases include \"The Forgotten Village\" (1941) written by John Steinbeck, the Roberto Rosselini classics \"Rome, Open City\" (1945) and \"Paisà\" (1946), \"The Quiet One\" (1948), the Academy Award-nominated \"Little Fugitive\" (1953), and \"Fear and Desire\" (1953), the first feature film directed by Stanley Kubrick.\n\nFrom 1951-53, Burstyn was at the center of \"Joseph Burstyn, Inc. v. Wilson\", 343 U.S. 495 (1952), which resulted in a landmark decision by the United States Supreme Court which helped end film censorship in New York.\n\nThe court decision determined that certain provisions of the New York State Education Law allowing a censor to forbid the commercial showing of any non-licensed motion picture film, or revoke or deny the license of a film deemed to be \"sacrilegious\", was a \"restraint on freedom of speech\" and thereby a violation of the First Amendment; in this case, the film in question was \"The Miracle\", directed by Roberto Rossellini, an Italian short film that was part of the anthology film \"Ways of Love\" (1950).\n\nBurstyn died in November 1953 of a coronary thrombosis during a TWA flight from New York to Rome. He collapsed several hours after the plane took off from Gander, Newfoundland. He was dead when the plane landed at Shannon Airport in Ireland.\n\n\n\n\nWittern-Keller, Laura and Raymond J. Haberski, Jr. \"The Miracle Case: Film Censorship and the Supreme Court.\"University Press of Kansas, 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "3418195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3418195", "title": "Juw Juwinga", "text": "Juw Juwinga\n\nJuw Juwinga (alias Jongema) of Bolsward was a Frisian chieftain that earned great fame in the struggle against the (Dutch) ‘infidels’. When Albrecht of Bavaria, count of Holland, threatened Friesland in 1396, Juw was chosen as potestate of Friesland. He advised luring the enemy into the land. The Schieringers limited their defense to the coastline. The Dutch were defeated at Schoterzijl (in Weststellingwerf) where Juw was slain on August 29, 1396.\n\nJuw was also known as Julius Jongema, and Petrus Thaborita wrote his name as Ju Jonghema.\n\nThe previous potestate was Hessel Martena. However the potestates were absent for many years due to arguments between Vetkopers and Schieringers and Juw was the eleventh potestaat.\n\n"}
{"id": "33233736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33233736", "title": "L-Ribonucleic acid aptamer", "text": "L-Ribonucleic acid aptamer\n\nAn -ribonucleic acid aptamer (-RNA aptamer, trade name Spiegelmer) is an RNA-like molecule built from -ribose units. It is an artificial oligonucleotide named for being a mirror image of natural oligonucleotides. -RNA aptamers are a form of aptamers. Due to their -nucleotides, they are highly resistant to degradation by nucleases. -RNA aptamers are considered potential drugs and are currently being tested in clinical trials.\n\n-RNA aptamers, built using -ribose, are the enantiomers of natural oligonucleotides, which are made with -ribose. Nucleic acid aptamers, including -RNA aptamers, contain adenosine monophosphate, guanosine monophosphate, cytidine monophosphate, uridine monophosphate, a phosphate group, a nucleobase and a ribose sugar.\n\nLike other aptamers, -RNA aptamers are able to bind molecules such as peptides, proteins, and substances of low molecular weight. The affinity of -RNA aptamers to their target molecules often lies in the pico to nanomolar range and is thus comparable to antibodies.\n\n-RNA aptamers themselves have low antigenicity. In contrast to other aptamers, -RNA aptamers have high stability in blood serum, since they are less susceptible to be cleaved hydrolytically by enzymes. They are excreted by the kidneys in a short time due to their low molar mass (which is below the renal threshold).\n\n-RNA aptamers modified with a higher molar mass, such as PEGylated -RNA aptamers, show a prolonged plasma half-life.\n\nUnlike other aptamers, -RNA aptamers are not directly made using systematic evolution of ligands by exponential enrichment (SELEX), as -nucleic acids are not amenable to enzymatic methods, such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR), used in SELEX. Therefore, the selection is done with mirrored target molecules.\n\nThe first step is the production of the target's enantiomer. In the case of peptides and small proteins that are produced synthetically, an enantiomer is made using synthetic -amino acids. If the target is a larger protein molecule, beyond synthetic abilities, the enantiomer of an epitope is produced.\n\nConventional (up to 10 different oligonucleotides) existing molecule library serves as a starting point for the subsequent SELEX process. Selection, separation, and amplification using the mirror image of the target molecule is performed.\n\nThe sequence of the oligonucleotide selected using SELEX is determined with the help of DNA sequencing. This information is used for the synthesis of the oligonucleotide's enantiomer, the -RNA aptamer, using -nucleotides.\n\n-RNA aptamers have been obtained for the chemokines CCL2 and CXCL12, the complement components C5a and ghrelin. They are currently in preclinical or clinical development. Proof-of-concept for an anti-CCL2/MCP-1 -RNA aptamers has recently been demonstrated in diabetic nephropathy patients. They can also be used as diagnostic agents.\n"}
{"id": "30114151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30114151", "title": "La rencontre", "text": "La rencontre\n\nThe Meeting or \"Bonjour, Monsieur Courbet\" (French: \"La rencontre, ou \"Bonjour Monsieur Courbet\"\") is an 1854 painting by Gustave Courbet.\n\nThe painting is traditionally interpreted as Courbet greeted by his patron Alfred Bruyas, his servant Calas, and his dog while traveling to Montpellier. The composition is based on the Wandering Jew. \"The Meeting\" was exhibited in Paris at the 1855 Exhibition Universelle, where critics ridiculed it as \"Bonjour, Monsieur Courbet\". Bruyas did not exhibit \"The Meeting\" until he donated it to the Musée Fabre in Montpellier in 1868.\n\n"}
{"id": "26074624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26074624", "title": "List of cemeteries in Italy", "text": "List of cemeteries in Italy\n\n"}
{"id": "9808266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9808266", "title": "List of multiple births", "text": "List of multiple births\n\nThis is a \"list of multiple births\", consisting of notable higher order (4+) multiple births and pregnancies. Twins and triplets are sufficiently common to have their own separate articles. With the use of reproductive technology such as fertility drugs and in vitro fertilization (IVF) such births have become increasingly common. This list contains only multiple births which have some claim to notability, such as being the first recorded in a country, the first to survive to adulthood in a country, or the heaviest, lightest or longest lived (globally). \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27107536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27107536", "title": "List of political self-immolations", "text": "List of political self-immolations\n\nThis is a list of notable self-immolations done for political reasons. Non-political self-immolations are not included in the list. Self-immolation has become an increasingly used protest tactic among Tibetans protesting rule of Tibet by China and Arabs against various Arab governments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15459916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15459916", "title": "List of wars by death toll", "text": "List of wars by death toll\n\nThis list of wars by death toll includes death toll estimates of all deaths that are either directly or indirectly caused by war. These numbers usually include the deaths of military personnel which are the direct results of battle or other military wartime actions, as well as the wartime/war-related deaths of soldiers, which are the results of war-induced epidemics, famines, atrocities, genocide, etc.\n\n\"\"'Note: the identity of a single \"war\" cannot be reliably given in some cases, and some \"wars\" can be taken to last over more than a human lifetime, e.g.\n\"Reconquista\" (711–1492, 781 years)\n\"Muslim conquests in India\" (12th to 16th c., 500 years)\n\"Crusades\" (ten or more campaigns during the period 1095–1291, 196 years),\n\"Mongol conquests\" (1206–1368, 162 years),\n\"early Muslim conquests\" (622–750, 128 years),\n\"Hundred Years' War\" (1337–1453, 115 years).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44195492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44195492", "title": "March of the Machines", "text": "March of the Machines\n\nMarch of the Machines: Why the New Race of Robots Will Rule the World (1997, hardcover), published in paperback as March of the Machines: The Breakthrough in Artificial Intelligence (2004), is a book by Kevin Warwick. It presents an overview of robotics and artificial intelligence (AI), often focusing on anecdotes of Warwick's own work, and then imagines future scenarios. In particular, Warwick finds it likely that such AIs will become smart enough to replace humans, and humans may be unable to stop them.\n\nThe book has a conversational style, with little technical detail. Warwick proposes that because machines will become more intelligent than humans, machine takeover is all but inevitable. The drive to automate is fueled by economic incentives. Even if machines start out without intentions to take over, those that self-modify in a direction toward a \"will to survive\" are more likely to resist being turned off. Arms races will likely create ever-increasing pressure for greater autonomy by robotic warfare systems, and this pressure would be hard to curtail. Machines have a number of advantages over human minds, including the ability to expand practically without limit and to spread into space where humans can't reach. \"All the signs are that we will rapidly become merely an insignificant historical dot\" (p. 301).\n\nThe book received poor reviews. John Durant in the New Statesman cautions against Warwick's apparent anthropomorphism: In one problematic example passage, Warwick opines that the Deep Blue computer had deliberately \"let Kasparov win the overall (1996) series, having shown him in the first game who was really the better player\". Durant states that \"There's rather a lot of this sort of thing in March of the Machines, and it's not clear how seriously it's intended to be taken.\" Durant also disagreed with Warwick's thesis, stating that present-day computers \"are not threats to us, but rather expressions of our power: we use the machines; they don't use us.\" Durant also wonders why, \"If Warwick's thesis about impending world robot-domination is correct\", Warwick continues to undertake cybernetic research.\n\nDon Braben begins his review of Warwick's book by stating that \"Specialists love to share dire predictions of the future, which stem from limited perspectives.\" Braben also states that, despite the centrality of intelligence to the thesis, Warwick fails to adequately pin down the slippery concept.\n\nIn \"Human Physiology\", Medvedev and Aldasheva dispute Warwick's contention that machines will become superior to humans on the grounds that \"machines are man-made human organs\", i.e., they extend what humans do. Moreover, if machines were to rebel against humans, humans could make use of other machines to combat the rebels. If AIs were created, humans would program them to align with human goals, and while some AIs might go awry, this would not be so different from the situation of human maniacs. All told, they consider Warwick's predictions of robot rebellion \"grossly exaggerated\".\n\nThe blurb for the 1997 edition stated in part \"Recent breakthroughs in cybernetics mean that robots already exist with the brain power of insects. Within five years, robots will exist with the brain power of cats. In ten to 50 years, robots will exist that are more intelligent than humans.\" Revisting in 2014, Martin Robbins of Vice news quotes Warwick's predictions of robot abilities as an example of \"Extravagant claims\" that \"have been damaging the reputation of our soon-to-be robot overlords for decades now\".\n"}
{"id": "56309828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56309828", "title": "Maru Dueñas", "text": "Maru Dueñas\n\nMaru Dueñas (born María Eugenia Dueñas Posadas, October 3, 1967 - November 11, 2017) was a Mexican actress, director and producer.\n\nDueñas study in academy Andrés Soler, and later study in the Centro de Educación Artística of Televisa in 1986.\n\nDueñas died in a car accident on November 11, 2017 when the truck in which she was traveling, owned by the company Televisa, hit a truck at kilometer 46 of the highway Mexico-Cuernavaca. Along with her, the director Claudio Reyes Rubio, son of Mexican actress María Rubio, who also died in the accident.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23969712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23969712", "title": "Master of Bioscience Enterprise", "text": "Master of Bioscience Enterprise\n\nA Master of Bioscience Enterprise (abbreviated \"MBE\" or \"MBioEnt\") is a specialised degree taught at The University of Auckland, New Zealand, Karolinska Institute, Sweden and The University of Cambridge, United Kingdom. The MBE is an interdisciplinary programme incorporating multiple faculties and includes significant industry involvement.\n\nThe degree is primarily focused on the commercialisation of biotechnology. Both universities have developed the MBE programme to provide specialist business and legal skills relevant to employment in the bio-economy. The context in which both programmes were developed are significantly different. These differences are reflected in internship placements, thesis topics and postgraduate employment opportunities.\n\nInaugurated in 2006, the MBE programme was developed in partnership between the School of Biological Sciences (SBS), the Business School and the Law School.\n\nThe prerequisite for the first year (the Postgraduate Diploma) is a Bachelor of Science with a major or specialisation in Biological Sciences, Bioinformatics, Biomedical Science, Food Science, Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmacology or Physiology; a Bachelor of Engineering in Biomedical Engineering; a Bachelor of Pharmacy; or a Bachelor of Technology in Biotechnology. The Postgraduate Diploma of Bioscience Enterprise is required for entry into the Masters year. Associate degrees are also available.\n\nThere is an academic component in both the Post Graduate Diploma and Masters year.\n\nPostgraduate Diploma Year\n\nThe Postgraduate Diploma year has five core papers required for the Postgraduate Diploma in Bioscience Enterprise. Students are also required to take three electives, which are generally science-based papers.\n\nSCIENT 701 (15 points)\nAccounting and Finance for Scientists <br>\nSCIENT 702 (15 points) \nMarketing for Scientific and Technical Personnel<br>\nSCIENT 703 (15 points) \nFrontiers in Biotechnology <br>\nSCIENT 704 (15 points) \nLaw and Intellectual Property <br>\nSCIENT 705 (15 points)\nResearch Commercialisation <br>\nSCIENT 706 (15 Points) \nCommercialisation Project\n\nMasters Year\nSCIENT 720 (15 Points) \nScience Enterprise Research Methods <br>\nSCIENT 721 (15 points)\nProduct Development and Regulatory Environments <br> \nSCIENT 722 (15 points) \nCurrent Issues in Bioscience Enterprise <br>\nThesis\nSCIENT 794 A & B(90 points) \nThe thesis component requires students to undertake a research project within an industry organisation. Topics vary and have included a wide variety of areas.\n\nIn the Masters year (year two), students undertake an internship within the biotechnology industry either in New Zealand or internationally for six months. During the internships, students complete a project for the company which generally relates to and influences the thesis topic, which is written during the internship period.\n\nContinued Industry Support<br>\nThe programme continues to grow industry support. NZTE considers the strong relationship with the MBE programme as a critical part of building the Auckland region as a centre of biotech excellence, innovation, and business expertise. Companies are intimately involved in content delivery. Guest lecturers are frequently used from local and international biotechnology organisations.\n\nTwo awards are given annually. The Baldwins award is given to the top achiever in Law and Intellectual Property. The award is designed to reward excellence in IP and encourage the graduates to consider future employment in this area. The second award is given to the student with the best Masters thesis.\n\nFounded in 2002, the MBE course is delivered by faculty of the Institute of Biotechnology and Judge Business School.\n\nStudents’ progress is continuously assessed, and feedback and marks from each module are provided to the students throughout the programme. There are no formal written examinations.\n\nStudents undertake an internship placement with a company or organisation, conducting research on a project of real commercial interest . The internship provides experience of working in a business environment as well as an opportunity to collect data as the basis for a dissertation. Students may opt, circumstances permitting, to work within multinational companies, start-ups, small to medium-sized enterprises or service providers to the biotech sector, such as accounting, legal or IP practices. Normally students spend 4 – 6 weeks with a company and are encouraged to put into practise the lessons learnt from the academic aspects of the programme as well as to demonstrate original research and analysis. The dissertation is an important component of programme assessment and contributes 30% of the total marks.\n"}
{"id": "29813511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29813511", "title": "Meaning and Purpose", "text": "Meaning and Purpose\n\nMeaning and Purpose, written by Kenneth Walker, was first published in September 1944 by Jonathan Cape, London, and republished by Pelican books in 1950.\n\nThe purpose of the book, as stated in the preface, was \"... to examine critically those scientific theories of the last hundred years which have exerted a strong influence on our thinking, not so much for the purpose of assessing their worth as for that of discovering the effect which they have had on our philosophy of life.\"\n\nThe book detailed an alternative perception of life and reality. It offered arguments proposing that neither Charles Darwin nor religious creationism adequately described the event of life, intellect, consciousness and various other concepts.\n\nThe first chapter opened with a discussion of a passage quoted from Goethe, there described as a poet, philosopher and scientist. Others whose writings as prominent scientists were listed in the book's bibliography were Sir Arthur Eddington, Ernst Haeckel, Sir Julian Huxley, Sir James Jeans and A. N. Whitehead.\n\nA hostile review in 1949, mentioned that the book referred unfavourably to Karl Marx as never to be regarded as having been a profound thinker and concluded that it was \"by a superficial man serving reactionary purposes\".\n"}
{"id": "177938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177938", "title": "Moss", "text": "Moss\n\nMosses are small flowerless plants that typically grow in dense green clumps or mats, often in damp or shady locations. The individual plants are usually composed of simple leaves that are generally only one cell thick, attached to a stem that may be branched or unbranched and has only a limited role in conducting water and nutrients. Although some species have conducting tissues, these are generally poorly developed and structurally different from similar tissue found in vascular plants. Mosses do not have seeds and after fertilisation develop sporophytes with unbranched stalks topped with single capsules containing spores. They are typically tall, though some species are much larger. \"Dawsonia\", the tallest moss in the world, can grow to in height.\n\nMosses are commonly confused with lichens, hornworts, and liverworts. Lichens may superficially look like mosses, and have common names that include the word \"moss\" (e.g., \"reindeer moss\" or \"iceland moss\"), but are not related to mosses. Mosses used to be grouped together with the hornworts and liverworts as \"non-vascular\" plants in the former division \"bryophytes\", all of them having the haploid gametophyte generation as the dominant phase of the life cycle. This contrasts with the pattern in all vascular plants (seed plants and pteridophytes), where the diploid sporophyte generation is dominant.\n\nMosses are now classified on their own as the division Bryophyta. There are approximately 12,000 species.\n\nThe main commercial significance of mosses is as the main constituent of peat (mostly the genus \"Sphagnum\"), although they are also used for decorative purposes, such as in gardens and in the florist trade. Traditional uses of mosses included as insulation and for the ability to absorb liquids up to 20 times their weight.\n\nBotanically, mosses are non-vascular plants in the land plant division Bryophyta. They are small (a few centimeters tall) herbaceous (non-woody) plants that absorb water and nutrients mainly through their leaves and harvest carbon dioxide and sunlight to create food by photosynthesis. They differ from vascular plants in lacking water-bearing xylem tracheids or vessels. As in liverworts and hornworts, the haploid gametophyte generation is the dominant phase of the life cycle. This contrasts with the pattern in all vascular plants (seed plants and pteridophytes), where the diploid sporophyte generation is dominant. Mosses reproduce using spores, not seeds, and have no flowers.\n\nMoss gametophytes have stems which may be simple or branched and upright or prostrate. Their leaves are simple, usually only a single layer of cells with no internal air spaces, often with thicker midribs. They do not have proper roots, but have threadlike rhizoids that anchor them to their substrate. Mosses do not absorb water or nutrients from their substrate through their rhizoids. They can be distinguished from liverworts (Marchantiophyta or Hepaticae) by their multi-cellular rhizoids. Spore-bearing capsules or sporangia of mosses are borne singly on long, unbranched stems, thereby distinguishing them from the polysporangiophytes, which include all vascular plants. The spore-bearing sporophytes (i.e. the diploid multicellular generation) are short-lived and dependent on the gametophyte for water supply and nutrition. Also, in most mosses, the spore-bearing capsule enlarges and matures after its stalk elongates, while in liverworts the capsule enlarges and matures before its stalk elongates. Other differences are not universal for all mosses and all liverworts, but the presence of clearly differentiated stem with simple-shaped, ribbed leaves, without deeply lobed or segmented leaves and not arranged in three ranks, all point to the plant being a moss.\n\nVascular plants have two sets of chromosomes in their vegetative cells and are said to be diploid, i.e. each chromosome has a partner that contains the same, or similar, genetic information. By contrast, mosses and other bryophytes have only a single set of chromosomes and so are haploid (i.e. each chromosome exists in a unique copy within the cell). There is a period in the moss life cycle when they do have a double set of paired chromosomes, but this happens only during the sporophyte stage.\n\nThe moss life-cycle starts with a haploid spore that germinates to produce a protonema (\"pl.\" protonemata), which is either a mass of thread-like filaments or thalloid (flat and thallus-like). Massed moss protonemata typically look like a thin green felt, and may grow on damp soil, tree bark, rocks, concrete, or almost any other reasonably stable surface. This is a transitory stage in the life of a moss, but from the protonema grows the gametophore (\"gamete-bearer\") that is structurally differentiated into stems and leaves. A single mat of protonemata may develop several gametophore shoots, resulting in a clump of moss.\n\nFrom the tips of the gametophore stems or branches develop the sex organs of the mosses. The female organs are known as archegonia (\"sing.\" archegonium) and are protected by a group of modified leaves known as the perichaetum (plural, perichaeta). The archegonia are small flask-shaped clumps of cells with an open neck (venter) down which the male sperm swim. The male organs are known as antheridia (\"sing.\" antheridium) and are enclosed by modified leaves called the perigonium (\"pl.\" perigonia). The surrounding leaves in some mosses form a splash cup, allowing the sperm contained in the cup to be splashed to neighboring stalks by falling water droplets.\n\nMosses can be either dioicous (compare dioecious in seed plants) or monoicous (compare monoecious). In dioicous mosses, male and female sex organs are borne on different gametophyte plants. In monoicous (also called autoicous) mosses, both are borne on the same plant. In the presence of water, sperm from the antheridia swim to the archegonia and fertilisation occurs, leading to the production of a diploid sporophyte. The sperm of mosses is biflagellate, i.e. they have two flagellae that aid in propulsion. Since the sperm must swim to the archegonium, fertilisation cannot occur without water. Some species (for example \"Mnium hornum\" or several species of \"Polytrichum\") keep their antheridia in so called 'splash cups', bowl-like structures on the shoot tips that propel the sperm several decimeters when water droplets hit it, increasing the fertilization distance.\n\nAfter fertilisation, the immature sporophyte pushes its way out of the archegonial venter. It takes about a quarter to half a year for the sporophyte to mature. The sporophyte body comprises a long stalk, called a seta, and a capsule capped by a cap called the operculum. The capsule and operculum are in turn sheathed by a haploid calyptra which is the remains of the archegonial venter. The calyptra usually falls off when the capsule is mature. Within the capsule, spore-producing cells undergo meiosis to form haploid spores, upon which the cycle can start again. The mouth of the capsule is usually ringed by a set of teeth called peristome. This may be absent in some mosses.\n\nMost mosses rely on the wind to disperse the spores. In the genus \"Sphagnum\" the spores are projected about off the ground by compressed air contained in the capsules; the spores are accelerated to about 36,000 times the earth's gravitational acceleration \"g\".\n\nIt has recently been found that microarthropods, such as springtails and mites, can effect moss fertilization and that this process is mediated by moss-emitted scents. Male and female fire moss, for example emit different and complex volatile organic scents. Female plants emit more compounds than male plants. Springtails were found to choose female plants preferentially, and one study found that springtails enhance moss fertilization, suggesting a scent-mediated relationship analogous to the plant-pollinator relationship found in many seed plants. The stinkmoss species \"Splachnum sphaericum\" develops insect pollination further by attracting flies to its sporangia with a strong smell of carrion, and providing a strong visual cue in the form of red-coloured swollen collars beneath each spore capsule. Flies attracted to the moss carry its spores to fresh herbivore dung, which is the favoured habitat of the species of this genus.\n\nIn many mosses, e.g. \"Ulota phyllantha\", green vegetative structures called gemmae are produced on leaves or branches, which can break off and form new plants without the need to go through the cycle of fertilization. This is a means of asexual reproduction, and the genetically identical units can lead to the formation of clonal populations.\n\nMoss dwarf males (also known as nannandry or phyllodioicy) originate from wind-dispersed male spores that settle and germinate on the female shoot where their growth is restricted to a few millimeters. In some species, dwarfness is genetically determined, in that all male spores become dwarf. More often, however, it is environmentally determined in that male spores that land on a female become dwarf, while those that land elsewhere develop into large, female-sized males. In the latter case, dwarf males that are transplanted from females to another substrate develop into large shoots, suggesting that the females emit a substance which inhibits the growth of germinating males and possibly also quickens their onset of sexual maturation. The nature of such a substance is unknown, but the phytohormone auxin may be involved\n\nHaving the males growing as dwarfs on the female is expected to increase the fertilization efficiency by minimizing the distance between male and female reproductive organs. Accordingly, it has been observed that fertilization frequency is positively associated with the presence of dwarf males in several phyllodioicous species.\n\nDwarf males occur in several unrelated lineages and is showing to be more common than previously thought. For example, it is estimated that between one quarter and half of all dioicous pleurocarps have dwarf males.\n\nThe moss \"Phycomitrella patens\" has been used as a model organism to study how plants repair damage to their DNA, especially the repair mechanism known as homologous recombination. If the plant cannot repair DNA damage, e.g. double-strand breaks, in their somatic cells, the cells can lose normal functions or die. If this occurs during meiosis (part of sexual reproduction), they could become infertile. The genome of \"P. patens\" has been sequenced, which has allowed several genes involved in DNA repair to be identified. \"P. patens\" mutants that are defective in key steps of homologous recombination have been used to work out how the repair mechanism functions in plants. For example, a study of \"P. patens\" mutants defective in \"Rp\"RAD51, a gene that encodes a protein at the core of the recombinational repair reaction, indicated that homologous recombination is essential for repairing DNA double-strand breaks in this plant. Similarly, studies of mutants defective in \"Ppmre11\" or \"Pprad50\" (that encode key proteins of the MRN complex, the principal sensor of DNA double-strand breaks) showed that these genes are necessary for repair of DNA damage as well as for normal growth and development.\n\nTraditionally, mosses were grouped with the liverworts and hornworts in the division Bryophyta (bryophytes, or Bryophyta sensu lato), within which the mosses made up the class Musci. However, this definition of Bryophyta was paraphyletic, as the mosses appear to be more closely related to vascular plants than to liverworts. Bryophytes are now split among three divisions: Bryophyta, Marchantiophyta and Anthocerotophyta. The current circumscription of Bryophyta includes only the mosses.\n\nThe mosses, now division Bryophyta (Bryophyta sensu stricto), are divided into eight classes:\n\nSix of the eight classes contain only one or two genera each. Polytrichopsida includes 23 genera, and Bryopsida includes the majority of moss diversity with over 95% of moss species belonging to this class.\n\nThe Sphagnopsida, the peat-mosses, comprise the two living genera \"Ambuchanania\" and \"Sphagnum\", as well as fossil taxa. However, the genus \"Sphagnum\" is a diverse, widespread, and economically important one. These large mosses form extensive acidic bogs in peat swamps. The leaves of \"Sphagnum\" have large dead cells alternating with living photosynthetic cells. The dead cells help to store water. Aside from this character, the unique branching, thallose (flat and expanded) protonema, and explosively rupturing sporangium place it apart from other mosses.\n\nAndreaeopsida and Andreaeobryopsida are distinguished by the biseriate (two rows of cells) rhizoids, multiseriate (many rows of cells) protonema, and sporangium that splits along longitudinal lines. Most mosses have capsules that open at the top.\n\nPolytrichopsida have leaves with sets of parallel lamellae, flaps of chloroplast-containing cells that look like the fins on a heat sink. These carry out photosynthesis and may help to conserve moisture by partially enclosing the gas exchange surfaces. The Polytrichopsida differ from other mosses in other details of their development and anatomy too, and can also become larger than most other mosses, with e.g. \"Polytrichum commune\" forming cushions up to high. The tallest land moss, a member of the Polytrichidae is probably \"Dawsonia superba\", a native to New Zealand and other parts of Australasia.\n\nThe fossil record of moss is sparse, due to their soft-walled and fragile nature. Unambiguous moss fossils have been recovered from as early as the Permian of Antarctica and Russia, and a case is put forwards for Carboniferous mosses. It has further been claimed that tube-like fossils from the Silurian are the macerated remains of moss calyptræ. Mosses also appear to evolve 2–3 times slower than ferns, gymnosperms and angiosperms.\n\nRecent research show that ancient moss could explain why the Ordovician ice ages occurred. When the ancestors of today's moss started to spread on land 470 million years ago, they absorbed CO from the atmosphere and extracted minerals by secreting organic acids that dissolved the rocks they were growing on. These chemically altered rocks in turn reacted with the atmospheric CO and formed new carbonate rocks in the ocean through the weathering of calcium and magnesium ions from silicate rocks. The weathered rocks also released a lot of phosphorus and iron which ended up in the oceans, where it caused massive algal blooms, resulting in organic carbon burial, extracting more carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Small organisms feeding on the nutrients created large areas without oxygen, which caused a mass extinction of marine species, while the levels of CO dropped all over the world, allowing the formation of ice caps on the poles.\n\nSince moss gametophytes are autotrophic they require enough sunlight to perform photosynthesis. Shade tolerance varies by species, just as it does with higher plants. In most areas, mosses grow chiefly in areas of dampness and shade, such as wooded areas and at the edges of streams; but they can grow anywhere in cool damp cloudy climates, and some species are adapted to sunny, seasonally dry areas like alpine rocks or stabilized sand dunes.\n\nChoice of substrate varies by species as well. Moss species can be classed as growing on: rocks, exposed mineral soil, disturbed soils, acid soil, calcareous soil, cliff seeps and waterfall spray areas, streamsides, shaded humusy soil, downed logs, burnt stumps, tree trunk bases, upper tree trunks, and tree branches or in bogs. Moss species growing on or under trees are often specific about the species of trees they grow on, such as preferring conifers to broadleaf trees, oaks to alders, or vice versa. While mosses often grow on trees as epiphytes, they are never parasitic on the tree.\n\nMosses are also found in cracks between paving stones in damp city streets, and on roofs. Some species adapted to disturbed, sunny areas are well adapted to urban conditions and are commonly found in cities. Examples would be \"Rhytidiadelphus squarrosus\", a garden weed in Vancouver and Seattle areas; \"Bryum argenteum\", the cosmopolitan sidewalk moss, and \"Ceratodon purpureus\", red roof moss, another cosmopolitan species. A few species are wholly aquatic, such as \"Fontinalis antipyretica\", common water moss; and others such as \"Sphagnum\" inhabit bogs, marshes and very slow-moving waterways. Such aquatic or semi-aquatic mosses can greatly exceed the normal range of lengths seen in terrestrial mosses. Individual plants or more long are common in \"Sphagnum\" species for example.\n\nWherever they occur, mosses require liquid water for at least part of the year to complete fertilisation. Many mosses can survive desiccation, sometimes for months, returning to life within a few hours of rehydration.\n\nIt is generally believed that in northern latitudes, the north side of trees and rocks will generally have more luxuriant moss growth on average than other sides. This is assumed to be because the sun on the south side creates a dry environment. South of the equator the reverse would be true. However, naturalists feel that mosses grow on the damper side of trees and rocks. In some cases, such as sunny climates in temperate northern latitudes, this will be the shaded north side of the tree or rock. On steep slopes it may be the uphill side. For mosses that grow on tree branches, this is generally the upper side of the branch on horizontally growing sections or near the crotch. In cool damp cloudy climates, all sides of tree trunks and rocks may be equally damp enough for mosses. And different species of mosses have different moisture and sun requirements so will grow on different sections of the same tree or rock.\n\nIn boreal forests, some species of moss play an important role in providing nitrogen for the ecosystem due to their relationship with nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria. Cyanobacteria colonizes moss and receives shelter in return for providing fixed nitrogen. Moss releases the fixed nitrogen, along with other nutrients, into the soil \"upon disturbances like drying-rewetting and fire events,\" making it available throughout the ecosystem.\n\nMoss is often considered a weed in grass lawns, but is deliberately encouraged to grow under aesthetic principles exemplified by Japanese gardening. In old temple gardens, moss can carpet a forest scene. Moss is thought to add a sense of calm, age, and stillness to a garden scene. Moss is also used in bonsai to cover the soil and enhance the impression of age.\nRules of cultivation are not widely established. Moss collections are quite often begun using samples transplanted from the wild in a water-retaining bag. However, specific species of moss can be extremely difficult to maintain away from their natural sites with their unique requirements of combinations of light, humidity, substrate chemistry, shelter from wind, etc.\n\nGrowing moss from spores is even less controlled. Moss spores fall in a constant rain on exposed surfaces; those surfaces which are hospitable to a certain species of moss will typically be colonised by that moss within a few years of exposure to wind and rain. Materials which are porous and moisture retentive, such as brick, wood, and certain coarse concrete mixtures, are hospitable to moss. Surfaces can also be prepared with acidic substances, including buttermilk, yogurt, urine, and gently puréed mixtures of moss samples, water and ericaceous compost.\n\nIn the cool cloudy damp Pacific Northwest, moss is sometimes allowed to grow naturally as a lawn substitute, one that needs little or no mowing, fertilizing or watering. In this case, grass is considered to be the weed. Landscapers in the Seattle area sometimes collect boulders and downed logs growing mosses for installation in gardens and landscapes. Woodland gardens in many parts of the world can include a carpet of natural mosses. The Bloedel Reserve on Bainbridge Island, Washington State, is famous for its moss garden. The moss garden was created by removing shrubby underbrush and herbaceous groundcovers, thinning trees, and allowing mosses to fill in naturally.\n\nMosses are sometimes used in green roofs. Advantages of mosses over higher plants in green roofs include reduced weight loads, increased water absorption, no fertilizer requirements, and high drought tolerance. Since mosses do not have true roots, they require less planting medium than higher plants with extensive root systems. With proper species selection for the local climate, mosses in green roofs require no irrigation once established and are low maintenance.\n\nMoss can be a troublesome weed in containerized nursery operations and greenhouses. Vigorous moss growth can inhibit seedling emergence and penetration of water and fertilizer to the plant roots.\n\nMoss growth can be inhibited by a number of methods:\n\nThe application of products containing ferrous sulfate or ferrous ammonium sulfate will kill moss; these ingredients are typically in commercial moss control products and fertilizers. Sulfur and Iron are essential nutrients for some competing plants like grasses. Killing moss will not prevent regrowth unless conditions favorable to their growth are changed.\n\nA passing fad for moss-collecting in the late 19th century led to the establishment of mosseries in many British and American gardens. The mossery is typically constructed out of slatted wood, with a flat roof, open to the north side (maintaining shade). Samples of moss were installed in the cracks between wood slats. The whole mossery would then be regularly moistened to maintain growth.\n\nPreindustrial societies made use of the mosses growing in their areas.\n\nLaplanders, North American tribes, and other circumpolar people used mosses for bedding. Mosses have also been used as insulation both for dwellings and in clothing. Traditionally, dried moss was used in some Nordic countries and Russia as an insulator between logs in log cabins, and tribes of the northeastern United States and southeastern Canada used moss to fill chinks in wooden longhouses. Circumpolar and alpine peoples have used mosses for insulation in boots and mittens. Ötzi the Iceman had moss-packed boots.\n\nThe capacity dried mosses have to absorb fluids, has made their use practical in both medical and culinary uses. North American tribal people used mosses for diapers, wound dressing, and menstrual fluid absorption. Tribes of the Pacific Northwest in the United States and Canada used mosses to clean salmon prior to drying, and packed wet moss into pit ovens for steaming camas bulbs. Food storage baskets and boiling baskets were also packed with mosses.\n\nThere is a substantial market in mosses gathered from the wild. The uses for intact moss are principally in the florist trade and for home decoration. Decaying moss in the genus \"Sphagnum\" is also the major component of peat, which is \"mined\" for use as a fuel, as a horticultural soil additive, and in smoking malt in the production of Scotch whisky.\n\n\"Sphagnum\" moss, generally the species \"S. cristatum\" and \"S. subnitens\", is harvested while still growing and is dried out to be used in nurseries and horticulture as a plant growing medium.\n\nThe practice of harvesting \"peat moss\" should not be confused with the harvesting of \"moss peat\". \"Peat moss\" can be harvested on a sustainable basis and managed so that regrowth is allowed, whereas the harvesting of \"moss peat\" is generally considered to cause significant environmental damage as the peat is stripped with little or no chance of recovery.\n\nSome \"Sphagnum\" mosses can absorb up to 20 times their own weight in water. In World War I, \"Sphagnum\" mosses were used as first-aid dressings on soldiers' wounds, as these mosses said to absorb liquids three times faster than cotton, retain liquids better, better distribute liquids uniformly throughout themselves, and are cooler, softer, and be less irritating. It is also claimed to have antibacterial properties. Native Americans were one of the peoples to use \"Sphagnum\" for diapers and napkins, which is still done in Canada.\n\nIn rural UK, \"Fontinalis antipyretica\" was traditionally used to extinguish fires as it could be found in substantial quantities in slow-moving rivers and the moss retained large volumes of water which helped extinguish the flames. This historical use is reflected in its specific Latin/Greek name, the approximate meaning of which is \"against fire\".\n\nIn Finland, peat mosses have been used to make bread during famines. In Mexico, Moss is used as a Christmas decoration.\n\n\"Physcomitrella patens\" is increasingly used in biotechnology. Prominent examples are the identification of moss genes\nwith implications for crop improvement or human health and the safe production of complex biopharmaceuticals in the moss bioreactor, developed by Ralf Reski and his co-workers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23440732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23440732", "title": "Nazario Moreno González", "text": "Nazario Moreno González\n\nNazario Moreno González (8 March 1970 – 9 March 2014), commonly referred to by his alias El Chayo (\"Nazario\" or \"The Rosary\") and/or El Más Loco (\"The Craziest One\"), was a Mexican drug lord who headed La Familia Michoacana before heading the Knights Templar Cartel, a drug cartel headquartered in the state of Michoacán. He was one of Mexico's most-wanted drug lords.\n\nVery few details are known of Moreno González's early life, but the authorities believe that religion played a major role in his upbringing. Although born in Michoacán, Moreno González moved to the United States as a teenager, but fled back into Mexico about a decade later to avoid prosecution on drug trafficking charges. In 2004, the drug boss Carlos Rosales Mendoza was captured, and Moreno González, alongside José de Jesús Méndez Vargas, took control of La Familia Michoacana. Unlike other traditional drug trafficking organizations in Mexico, his organization also operated like a religious cult, where its own members were given \"bibles\" with sayings and conduct guidelines. Moreno González reportedly carried out several philanthropic deeds to help the marginalized in Michoacán. Such deeds helped him craft an image of protector, saint, and Christ-like messianic figure among the poor, and gave La Familia Michoacana a level of influence among some natives.\n\nThe Mexican government reported that Moreno González was killed during a two-day gunfight with the Mexican federal police in his home state in December 2010. After the shootout, however, no body was recovered. Rumors thus persisted that Moreno González was still alive and leading the Knights Templar Cartel, the split-off group of La Familia Michoacana. Four years later, on 9 March 2014, his survival was confirmed. Mexican authorities located him again, this time in the town of Tumbiscatío, Michoacán, and attempted to apprehend him. A gunfight ensued resulting in Moreno González's death. Subsequent forensic examination confirmed his identity.\n\nMoreno González was born in the \"ranchería\" of Guanajuatillo in Apatzingán, Michoacán, Mexico at around 5:00 a.m. on 8 March 1970. There are few details of Moreno González's upbringing, but religion may have played an important role in his early life. His parents had 13 children (including Moreno González). His father Manuel Moreno was reportedly an alcoholic and had several mistresses, and one day he left his family when Moreno González was still very young, forcing his mother to singlehandedly raise the whole family. With their father gone, Moreno González and his siblings lived under the strict discipline of their mother. According to his autobiography, Moreno González had a love-hate relationship with his mother; as a child, he was beaten by his mother for being troublesome and getting into fights. In one occasion, he recalled that his mother once forced him to make his way back to his house by walking on his knees while keeping his arms stretched like a cross throughout the whole day for stealing an animal. Such treatments helped him develop resentment as to partially explain his violent behavior as an adult, he argued. He admitted, however, that he often got into fist fights with other kids from Guanajuatillo and the surrounding \"rancherías\". Moreno González recalled that he would not always win and that he once got into 10 fights in a single day. His violent reputation as a child helped him earn the nickname El Más Loco (\"The Craziest One\")—which he held onto for the rest of his life—among his siblings and other kids from the area where he grew up.\n\nHe never attended school and was illiterate for some years of his early life. He learned to read and write reportedly out of curiosity after reading and hearing comic books and stories of \"Kalimán\" and \"Porfirio Cadena, El Ojo del Vidrio\" on the local radio station. In his autobiography, Moreno González said that as a child he believed he had the superhuman ability of speaking telepathically with animals like \"Kalimán\" did in the comics. He said he wanted to be a hero like the comic characters. As a child, he was accustomed to seeing gunmen near his home, and played \"las guerritas\" (\"war games\") for fun. While playing the game, he often pretended to be dead, only to say later on that he had been wounded in the game but that he had managed to survive. At the age of twelve, he moved to Apatzingán and made a living by selling matches, peeling onions, working at a melon field, and throwing out the trash from several booths at a marketplace. As a teenager in the late 1980s, Moreno González migrated illegally to the United States, settling in California, where he eventually began selling marijuana. After some years, he moved to Texas and in 1994 was arrested for drug trafficking charges in McAllen. Nearly a decade later in 2003, the U.S. government charged him with conspiracy to distribute five tons of narcotics and issued an arrest warrant. Moreno González then fled back to Mexico.\n\nAlthough raised Catholic, Moreno González became a Jehovah's Witness during his time in the United States. In Apatzingán, Moreno González preached to the poor and always carried a bible with him. With time, he won the loyalty of several locals, and many started to see him as a \"messiah\" for preaching religious principles and forming La Familia Michoacana, a drug cartel that posed as a vigilante group. When Carlos Rosales Mendoza was arrested in 2004, Moreno González ascended to the apex of La Familia Michoacana, a drug trafficking organization based in western Mexico, along with José de Jesús Méndez Vargas. In 2006, La Familia Michoacana broke relations with the Gulf Cartel and Los Zetas, and Moreno González heralded the organization's independence when several of his gunmen tossed five human heads on a discothèque dance floor in Uruapan. Near the severed heads lay a message that read, \"La Familia doesn't kill for money, doesn't kill women, doesn't kill innocents. Only those who deserve to die will die.\"\n\nIn 2009, the Mexican government published a list of its 37 most-wanted drug lords and offered a $2.2 million reward for information that led to Moreno González's capture. His three partners – José de Jesús Méndez Vargas, Servando Gómez Martínez and Dionisio Loya Plancarte – were also on the list. In 2010, he was sanctioned under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (sometimes referred to simply as the \"Kingpin Act\") by the United States Department of the Treasury for his involvement in drug trafficking. The act prohibited U.S. citizens and companies from doing business with Moreno González, and virtually froze all his assets in the U.S.\n\nLos Zetas eventually broke off from the Gulf Cartel in 2010, after serving in the armed wing of the organization for more than a decade. But in opposition to Los Zetas, Moreno González's cartel rejoined with the Gulf Cartel and allied with the Sinaloa Cartel to fight them off. Since then, La Familia Michoacana became one of the fastest-growing cartels involved in Mexico's drug war. It stood out for its promotion of \"family values\" and religious agenda, unlike traditional cartels. Although deeply involved in the methamphetamine business, Moreno González's cartel diversified its criminal agenda by controlling numerous \"counterfeiting, extortion, kidnapping, armed robbery, prostitution and car dealership\" rings in Michoacán and its neighboring states. By mid-2009, La Familia had managed to establish a foothold in about 20 to 30 urban areas across the United States.\n\nMoreno González required his men to carry a \"spiritual manual\" that he wrote himself, \"[containing] pseudo-Christian aphorisms for self-improvement.\" In his \"bible,\" Moreno González prohibited his men from consuming alcoholic beverages or other drugs, and stated that he would severely punish those who mistreated women. His writings encouraged the corporal punishment of thieves by beating them and making them walk naked with billboards in the city streets. He prohibited members of his cartel from consuming or selling methamphetamines in Michoacán, arguing that the drug was only to be smuggled into the U.S. for American consumers. Moreno González justified drug trafficking by stating that La Familia Michoacana allegedly regulated the drug trade to prevent exploitation of the people. The book, sometimes known as \"The Sayings of the Craziest One\", also talks about humility, service, wisdom, brotherhood, courage, and God. His second book, titled \"They Call Me The Craziest One\", is 13 chapters long and talks about his life, idealism, the origins of La Familia Michoacana, their battle against Los Zetas, and his rationale behind joining organized crime. The text reads like a diary and justifies his criminal activities under the rationale that just like others in Michoacán, the limited opportunities and his poor financial situation pushed him to get involved in the drug trade. In addition to that, Moreno González blamed the government for the existence of criminals.\n\nAs leader of La Familia Michoacana, Moreno González was in charge of forging alliances with other cartels. Reportedly, Moreno González met with several other high-ranking drug lords, including Fernando Sánchez Arellano of the Tijuana Cartel; Juan José Esparragoza Moreno of the Sinaloa Cartel; and Ezequiel Cárdenas Guillén of the Gulf Cartel. In these agreements, the cartels allowed La Familia Michoacana to move drugs freely in their territories in exchange for their support in fighting off rival gangs like Los Zetas. In 2008, Moreno González agreed to send armed men to help Joaquín Guzmán Loera and Ismael Zambada García fight off rival cartels, a favor which granted him access to the drug corridors in Sinaloa and Sonora. In addition, his friendship with the Gulf Cartel leader Jorge Eduardo Costilla Sánchez allowed him access to the northeastern state of Tamaulipas.\n\nDuring his tenure as leader of La Familia Michoacana, Moreno González reportedly gave loans to farmers, funded schools and churches, financed drainage projects, and carried out several aid campaigns to help out the disadvantaged in the state of Michoacán. This, along with the manpower of the organization, allowed him get the support of several rural sectors in the state, where many served as informants and collaborators for the cartel. His wife was also known for organizing several self-help seminars in Apatzingán. The support of La Familia Michoacana is rooted in family connections and local communities in Michoacán, and in the supposed exploitation of its citizens by the government.\n\nOn 9 December 2010, the Mexican federal police surrounded the village of El Alcalde in Apatzingán, Michoacán with more than 2,000 officers. Reportedly, Moreno González was at a local festival handing out Christmas presents to the villagers when he was tracked down by the authorities.\n\nAs the police troops drove into town, gunmen of La Familia Michoacana blocked the entrances with more than 40 burning trucks and cars. La Familia gunmen also surrounded the state capital of Morelia in an attempt to prevent the police from receiving reinforcements. The shootout lasted about two days, and at least 11 deaths were confirmed. During the gun battle, the gunmen managed to carry out the bodies of their fallen comrades up the hills. The government reported at the time that Moreno González had been killed, but that the cartel took his body away. This triggered rumors that he was alive and leading his cartel. However, the Mexican government denied such claims. Elías Álvarez, the commander of the 2010 police operation, said González's grave was in the mountains. 2014 reports from the Mexican government stated that Moreno González was possibly injured (but not killed) during the shootout. For four years, the drug lord took advantage of the government's mistake to fall off the authorities's radar and continue to command the cartel behind the scenes.\n\nThe alleged death of Moreno González was considered one of the most significant government victories since the start of the drug war in 2006. La Familia Michoacana was the focus of the government because their stronghold, Michoacán state, is approximately four hours away from the country's capital, Mexico City. In addition, Michoacán is the homestate of former President Felipe Calderón, who made it a top priority to pacify it.\n\nA few days after the shootout, several people carried out a peace march in Apatzingán expressing their support for the cartel with banners that read \"Nazario will always live in our hearts,\" among others. Others protested against the presence of the federal forces in the state, and argued that the federal government—not the cartels—were responsible for increasing the violence in the country. Through several banners hung on bridges throughout the state of Michoacán, La Familia Michoacana publicly announced that they were open to the possibility of creating a \"truce\" (ceasefire) with the Mexican government throughout December 2010 and January 2011 to prove that they were not the source of the violence. The Mexican authorities \"summarily rejected\" the agreement.\n\nAfter Moreno Gonzalez was reported dead, José de Jesús Méndez Vargas took the lead of La Familia Michoacana. The other cartel leader, Servando Gómez Martínez (alias \"La Tuta\"), fought Méndez Vargas for control of the group and eventually formed the Knights Templar Cartel, a drug cartel and pseudo-religious splinter group. The cartel was headed by Moreno González, followed by Gómez Martínez, Dionisio Loya Plancarte (alias \"El Tío\"), and Enrique Plancarte Solís (alias \"Kike Plancarte\"), in that order. However, given that the Mexican government believed that Moreno González had been killed in 2010, Gómez Martínez was regarded as the first-in-command. Since its creation, the Knights Templar Cartel became a greater security concern for the Mexican government; it began to extort lime farmers, cutters, and packers, as well as people who worked in the avocado business in Michoacán. The cartel also stole minerals from the state's reserves to later ship to China for sale on the black market. Killings, extortions, kidnappings, and arson attacks against Michoacán residents and local businesses increased. In response to the cartel's activities, \"autodefensa\" (vigilante/self-defense) groups began to emerge in Michoacán in 2011, and gained significant momentum in February 2013 when they began to push the cartel outside of the Tierra Caliente region. President Enrique Peña Nieto sent in more federal troops to Michoacán on January 2014 initially with the intent to disarm the informal groups. However, that plan was quickly abandoned following some resistance, and the government decided to sign an agreement that month with the \"autodefensas\" to combat insecurity together.\n\nGiven that Moreno González's body was never recovered from the December 2010 shootout where officials said he was killed, there were rumors that he was alive and secretly leading the Knights Templar Cartel, the split-off group of La Familia Michoacana. On June 2011, members of La Familia Michoacana set up several public banners throughout the state of Guerrero with written messages directed to the former President Calderón and his security spokesman Alejandro Poiré. The banners proclaimed that Moreno González was in fact alive and leading the Knights Templar Cartel, and that the government was allegedly covering him up. The rumors were immediately denied by the Mexican government, which stood firm that the drug lord was killed by federal forces on December 9, 2010. Rumors sparked again in October 2011 following the arrest of Mario Buenrostro Quiroz, a drug trafficker who headed a Mexico City-based gang known as Los Aboytes. In a videotaped police confession, he told authorities that Moreno González was still alive and heading the cartel. Intelligence agency InSight Crime said the rumors were probably part of a campaign of the Knights Templar Cartel to win prestige from La Familia Michoacana by saying that their leader is in fact alive and still supporting the group. On 27 October 2012, the Mexican Army raided a safe house in Apatzingán where they believed the drug lord Enrique Plancarte Solís was hiding. Though the raid was ultimately unsuccessful because Plancarte Solís managed to avoid capture by sending several gunmen from his inner circle to battle off the soldiers, the authorities discovered several documents written for Moreno González. The Army gave the documents to the intelligence agency SIEDO for further investigation.\n\nMany Michoacán natives believed that Moreno González was alive; he was widely believed to have made a public appearance in Morelia in 2012 after his son was killed in a motorcycle accident. According to an unnamed official, his sister went to the morgue to reclaim the body of his son before the autopsy. When the coroner refused to give her the body, Moreno González paid him a visit and convinced him to give up the body. In fears of reprisals, local media outlets self-censored and did not report on the death of his son. Those who wrecked his son were reportedly kidnapped by Moreno González men and killed. In addition, one militia leader from the town of Coalcomán reported seeing him dressed as Saint Francis of Assisi, baptizing people, and leading his henchmen. There was no concrete evidence of Moreno González being alive. However, since no autopsy was performed, there was no evidence of him being dead either. In January 2014, Gregorio López, a priest of Apatzingán, reported that Moreno González ordered a self-imposed curfew in the city and threatened to burn down businesses that did not comply with the order. That week Michoacán had a series of violent episodes after the state's \"autodefensa\" (vigilante) groups—which emerged in February 2013 to fight the Knights Templar Cartel—attempted to move into several municipalities to fight the cartel. The priest said in an interview that there were rumors that the drug lord met with \"La Tuta\" for lunch in La Cucha, a ranch outside of Apatzingán. In an interview with Noticias MVS in February 2014, the former self-defense group leader José Manuel Mireles Valverde stated that Moreno González celebrated Christmas Day (25 December 2013) with the cartel leader Enrique Plancarte Solís and his daughter and banda singer Melissa at the drug lord's house. Mireles claimed in March 2014 that the self-defense groups nearly captured Moreno González at a ranch close to Tumbiscatío, Michoacán, but that he managed to escape 20 minutes before their arrival.\n\nRumors surrounding these allegations were around since Moreno González was declared dead by the Mexican government in 2010. The mysticism and spiritual teachings of the drug lord have played an important role in the Knights Templar Cartel's propaganda and recruitment in Michoacán. By spreading such rumors, the cartel hoped to gain a level of consensus from the public in their fight against the self-defense militias and state forces in the state.\n\nAfter Moreno González's reported death in 2010, Michoacán natives reportedly began to worship him as a saint, \"drawing attention to the links between narco-culture and religion.\" In the region of Apatzingán, people created altars with statues and photos in honor of him. The figurines are often dressed in tunics similar to the Knights Templar, and had prayers calling him Saint Nazario. \"Reforma\" newspaper reported that Moreno González had his own prayer: \"Oh Lord Almighty, free me from all sins, give me protection through Saint Nazario.\" These altars are found in the village of Holanda, on the hill of El Cerrito de la Cruz, and in Apatzingán. Villagers have noted that they had been forced to venerate the criminal under threat of armed force by the gang members.\n\nThroughout his criminal career, Moreno González promoted La Familia Michoacana as an organization that existed to protect the people in Michoacán, where he carried out several campaigns that implemented curfews, punished drinkers, and attacked Los Zetas, whom he claimed had corroded the morality of the state and community. The prayers that are now dedicated to Moreno González now refer to him as the \"Representative of God,\" the \"Protector of the poorest,\" and as the \"Knight of the towns.\" Such behavior proves that La Familia Michoacana's religious campaign influenced the local area.\n\nThe area where the altars are located is reportedly patrolled by \"Los 12 apóstoles\" ('12 apostles'), the security body that allegedly protected Moreno González.\n\nAt around 7:00 a.m. on 9 March 2014, the Mexican Army and Navy pinpointed Moreno González's whereabouts in Tumbiscatío, Michoacán. When they tried to apprehend him, the drug lord opened fire at the security forces before being killed in the fire exchange. Mexico's Procuraduría General de la República (PGR) officially confirmed his identity through DNA examinations and fingerprint identification. The results were consistent with law enforcement files. While investigators conducted the autopsy at a hospital in Apatzingán, more than 150 law enforcement officers from the Army, Navy, Federal Police, and the PGR cordoned the area to prevent organized crime members from attempting to steal his body. Post-mortem reports indicated that Moreno González died of two gunshot wounds on his thorax. On 12 March 2014, his corpse was transferred to Morelia under tight security for further testing. At the time of his death, the drug lord was wanted by the Mexican government for charges relating to drug trafficking, organized crime, kidnapping, murder, and theft.\n\nOn the evening of 14 March 2014, his corpse was handed over to his sister and two nephews in Morelia by state authorities. As they left the forensic installations, they covered their faces in front of cameras and did not specify if they had plans to carry out a funeral for Moreno González. His family and friends, however, held a funeral for him at the Santa Cruz funeral home in Altozano, Morelia. They did not comment where the corpse was to be taken, but unconfirmed reports suggested that there were plans to cremate him and scatter his ashes at a village in the Tierra Caliente region in Michoacán.\n\nMoreno González enjoyed watching the \"Godfather Trilogy\" and the drama film \"Braveheart\".\n\nHe went by several nicknames, including but not limited to El Chayo (hypocorism for \"Nazario\" or \"Rosario\", the Spanish word for Rosary), Víctor Nazario Castrejón Peña, El Dulce (\"The Candy\"), El Doctor (\"The Doctor\"), and El Más Loco (\"The Craziest One\"), In 2014, the Mexican government discovered that the drug lord also held the alias Emiliano Morelos Guevara in reference to revolutionary figures Emiliano Zapata, José María Morelos, and Che Guevara.\n\nHis father was reportedly Manuel Moreno, who died on July 2013, according to intelligence reports from Mexican federal agents. The drug lord was the uncle or cousin of Uriel Chávez Mendoza, the municipal president (equivalent of mayor) of Apatzingán. He was arrested by Mexican authorities on 15 April 2014 for his alleged ties to organized crime. The city councilman Isidro Villanueva Moreno may also be his cousin too. His half brother and cousin of Plancarte Solís, Antonio Magaña Pantoja, was arrested by Mexican authorities in Apatzingán on 9 February 2014. His half brother Heliodoro Moreno Anguiano (alias \"El Yoyo\") was arrested by Mexican authorities in Apatzingán, Michoacán on 18 February 2014. His nephew Faustino Andrade González was arrested by the Mexican Federal Police in Apatzingán with four other suspected criminals on 5 June 2014.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15835903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15835903", "title": "Nicolas Adam", "text": "Nicolas Adam\n\nNicolas \"Nic\" Dominique Adam (born September 18, 1881, date of death unknown) was a Luxembourgian gymnast, born in Esch-sur-Alzette, who competed in the 1912 Summer Olympics.\n\nIn 1912 he was a member of the Luxembourgian team which finished fourth in the team, European system competition and fifth in the team, free system event.\n\n"}
{"id": "8220847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8220847", "title": "Philander Stephens", "text": "Philander Stephens\n\nPhilander Stephens (1788 – July 8, 1842) was a Jacksonian member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Pennsylvania.\n\nPhilander Stephens was born near Montrose, Pennsylvania. He served as coroner in 1815, county commissioner in 1818 and sheriff in 1821. He was a member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives in 1824 and 1825.\n\nStephens was elected as a Jacksonian to the Twenty-first and Twenty-second Congresses. He served as chairman of the United States House Committee on Expenditures in the Department of the Treasury during the Twenty-second Congress. He was not a candidate for renomination in 1832. He resumed agricultural and mercantile pursuits and died probably in Springville Township, Pennsylvania. Interment in Stephens Burying Ground in Dimock Township, Pennsylvania.\n\n"}
{"id": "85754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85754", "title": "Phonon", "text": "Phonon\n\nIn physics, a phonon is a collective excitation in a periodic, elastic arrangement of atoms or molecules in condensed matter, like solids and some liquids. Often designated a quasiparticle, it represents an excited state in the quantum mechanical quantization of the modes of vibrations of elastic structures of interacting particles.\n\nPhonons play a major role in many of the physical properties of condensed matter, like thermal conductivity and electrical conductivity. The study of phonons is an important part of condensed matter physics.\n\nThe concept of phonons was introduced in 1932 by Soviet physicist Igor Tamm. The name \"phonon\" comes from the Greek word φωνή (\"phonē\"), which translates to \"sound\" or \"voice\" because long-wavelength phonons give rise to sound. The name is based on the word \"photon\".\n\nShorter-wavelength higher-frequency phonons are responsible for the majority of the thermal capacity of solids.\n\nA phonon is the quantum mechanical description of an elementary vibrational motion in which a lattice of atoms or molecules uniformly oscillates at a single frequency. In classical mechanics this designates a normal mode of vibration. Normal modes are important because any arbitrary lattice vibration can be considered to be a superposition of these \"elementary\" vibration modes (cf. Fourier analysis). While normal modes are wave-like phenomena in classical mechanics, phonons have particle-like properties too, in a way related to the wave–particle duality of quantum mechanics.\n\nThe equations in this section do not use axioms of quantum mechanics but instead use relations for which there exists a direct correspondence in classical mechanics.\n\nFor example: a rigid regular, crystalline (not amorphous), lattice is composed of \"N\" particles. These particles may be atoms or molecules. \"N\" is a large number, say of the order of 10, or on the order of Avogadro's number for a typical sample of a solid. Since the lattice is rigid, the atoms must be exerting forces on one another to keep each atom near its equilibrium position. These forces may be Van der Waals forces, covalent bonds, electrostatic attractions, and others, all of which are ultimately due to the electric force. Magnetic and gravitational forces are generally negligible. The forces between each pair of atoms may be characterized by a potential energy function \"V\" that depends on the distance of separation of the atoms. The potential energy of the entire lattice is the sum of all pairwise potential energies multiplied by a factor of 1/2 to avoid double counting:\n\nwhere \"r\" is the position of the \"i\"th atom, and \"V\" is the potential energy between two atoms. \n\nIt is difficult to solve this many-body problem explicitly in either classical or quantum mechanics. In order to simplify the task, two important approximations are usually imposed. First, the sum is only performed over neighboring atoms. Although the electric forces in real solids extend to infinity, this approximation is still valid because the fields produced by distant atoms are effectively screened. Secondly, the potentials \"V\" are treated as harmonic potentials. This is permissible as long as the atoms remain close to their equilibrium positions. Formally, this is accomplished by Taylor expanding \"V\" about its equilibrium value to quadratic order, giving \"V\" proportional to the displacement \"x\" and the elastic force simply proportional to \"x\". The error in ignoring higher order terms remains small if \"x\" remains close to the equilibrium position.\n\nThe resulting lattice may be visualized as a system of balls connected by springs. The following figure shows a cubic lattice, which is a good model for many types of crystalline solid. Other lattices include a linear chain, which is a very simple lattice which we will shortly use for modeling phonons. (For other common lattices, see crystal structure.)\n\nThe potential energy of the lattice may now be written as\n\nHere, \"ω\" is the natural frequency of the harmonic potentials, which are assumed to be the same since the lattice is regular. \"R\" is the position coordinate of the \"i\"th atom, which we now measure from its equilibrium position. The sum over nearest neighbors is denoted (nn).\n\nDue to the connections between atoms, the displacement of one or more atoms from their equilibrium positions gives rise to a set of vibration waves propagating through the lattice. One such wave is shown in the figure to the right. The amplitude of the wave is given by the displacements of the atoms from their equilibrium positions. The wavelength \"λ\" is marked.\n\nThere is a minimum possible wavelength, given by twice the equilibrium separation \"a\" between atoms. Any wavelength shorter than this can be mapped onto a wavelength longer than 2\"a\", due to the periodicity of the lattice. This can be thought as one consequence of Nyquist–Shannon sampling theorem, the lattice points are viewed as the \"sampling points\" of a continuous wave.\n\nNot every possible lattice vibration has a well-defined wavelength and frequency. However, the normal modes do possess well-defined wavelengths and frequencies.\n\nIn order to simplify the analysis needed for a 3-dimensional lattice of atoms, it is convenient to model a 1-dimensional lattice or linear chain. This model is complex enough to display the salient features of phonons.\n\nThe forces between the atoms are assumed to be linear and nearest-neighbour, and they are represented by an elastic spring. Each atom is assumed to be a point particle and the nucleus and electrons move in step (adiabatic approximation):\n\n···o++++++o++++++o++++++o++++++o++++++o++++++o++++++o++++++o++++++o···\nwhere labels the th atom out of a total of , is the distance between atoms when the chain is in equilibrium, and the displacement of the th atom from its equilibrium position.\n\nIf \"C\" is the elastic constant of the spring and the mass of the atom, then the equation of motion of the th atom is\nThis is a set of coupled equations. Since the solutions are expected to be oscillatory, new coordinates are defined by a discrete Fourier transform, in order to decouple them. \n\nPut\nHere, corresponds and devolves to the continuous variable of scalar field theory. The are known as the normal coordinates, continuum field modes . Substitution into the equation of motion produces the following \"decoupled equations\" (this requires a significant manipulation using the orthonormality and completeness relations of the discrete Fourier transform,\n\nThese are the equations for harmonic oscillators which have the solution\n\nEach normal coordinate \"Q\" represents an independent vibrational mode of the lattice with wavenumber which is known as a normal mode. \n\nThe second equation, for , is known as the dispersion relation between the angular frequency and the wavenumber. In the continuum limit, →0, →∞, with held fixed, → , a scalar field, and formula_7. This amounts to free scalar classical field theory.\n\nA one-dimensional quantum mechanical harmonic chain consists of \"N\" identical atoms. This is the simplest quantum mechanical model of a lattice that allows phonons to arise from it. The formalism for this model is readily generalizable to two and three dimensions.\n\nIn some contrast to the previous section, the positions of the masses are not denoted by \"u\", but, instead, by \"x\", \"x\"…, as measured from their equilibrium positions (i.e. \"x\" = 0 if particle \"i\" is at its equilibrium position.) In two or more dimensions, the \"x\" are vector quantities. The Hamiltonian for this system is\n\nwhere \"m\" is the mass of each atom (assuming it is equal for all), and \"x\" and \"p\" are the position and momentum operators, respectively, for the \"i\"th atom and the sum is made over the nearest neighbors (nn). However one expects that in a lattice there could also appear waves that behave like particles. It is customary to deal with waves in Fourier space which uses normal modes of the wavevector as variables instead coordinates of particles. The number of normal modes is same as the number of particles. However, the Fourier space is very useful given the periodicity of the system.\n\nA set of \"N\" \"normal coordinates\" \"Q\" may be introduced, defined as the discrete Fourier transforms of the \"x\" and \"N\" \"conjugate momenta\" \"Π\" defined as the Fourier transforms of the \"p\":\n\nThe quantity \"k\" turns out to be the wavenumber of the phonon, i.e. 2 divided by the wavelength.\n\nThis choice retains the desired commutation relations in either real space or wavevector space\n\nFrom the general result\n\nThe potential energy term is\nwhere\n\nThe Hamiltonian may be written in wavevector space as\n\nThe couplings between the position variables have been transformed away; if the \"Q\" and \"Π\" were Hermitian (which they are not), the transformed Hamiltonian would describe \"N\" uncoupled harmonic oscillators.\n\nThe form of the quantization depends on the choice of boundary conditions; for simplicity, \"periodic\" boundary conditions are imposed, defining the (\"N\" + 1)th atom as equivalent to the first atom. Physically, this corresponds to joining the chain at its ends. The resulting quantization is\n\nThe upper bound to \"n\" comes from the minimum wavelength, which is twice the lattice spacing \"a\", as discussed above.\n\nThe harmonic oscillator eigenvalues or energy levels for the mode \"ω\" are:\n\nThe levels are evenly spaced at:\n\nwhere \"ħω\" is the zero-point energy of a quantum harmonic oscillator.\n\nAn exact amount of energy \"ħω\" must be supplied to the harmonic oscillator lattice to push it to the next energy level. In comparison to the photon case when the electromagnetic field is quantized, the quantum of vibrational energy is called a phonon.\n\nAll quantum systems show wavelike and particlelike properties simultaneously. The particle-like properties of the phonon are best understood using the methods of second quantization and operator techniques described later.\n\nThis may be generalized to a three-dimensional lattice. The wavenumber \"k\" is replaced by a three-dimensional wavevector k. Furthermore, each k is now associated with three normal coordinates.\n\nThe new indices \"s\" = 1, 2, 3 label the polarization of the phonons. In the one-dimensional model, the atoms were restricted to moving along the line, so the phonons corresponded to longitudinal waves. In three dimensions, vibration is not restricted to the direction of propagation, and can also occur in the perpendicular planes, like transverse waves. This gives rise to the additional normal coordinates, which, as the form of the Hamiltonian indicates, we may view as independent species of phonons.\n\nFor a one-dimensional alternating array of two types of ion or atom of mass \"m\", \"m\" repeated periodically at a distance \"a\", connected by springs of spring constant \"K\", two modes of vibration result:\nwhere \"k\" is the wavevector of the vibration related to its wavelength by\nformula_19.\n\nThe connection between frequency and wavevector, \"ω\" = \"ω\"(\"k\"), is known as a dispersion relation. The plus sign results in the so-called \"optical\" mode, and the minus sign to the \"acoustic\" mode. In the optical mode two adjacent different atoms move against each other, while in the acoustic mode they move together.\n\nThe speed of propagation of an acoustic phonon, which is also the speed of sound in the lattice, is given by the slope of the acoustic dispersion relation, (see group velocity.) At low values of \"k\" (i.e. long wavelengths), the dispersion relation is almost linear, and the speed of sound is approximately \"ωa\", independent of the phonon frequency. As a result, packets of phonons with different (but long) wavelengths can propagate for large distances across the lattice without breaking apart. This is the reason that sound propagates through solids without significant distortion. This behavior fails at large values of \"k\", i.e. short wavelengths, due to the microscopic details of the lattice.\n\nFor a crystal that has at least two atoms in its primitive cell, the dispersion relations exhibit two types of phonons, namely, optical and acoustic modes corresponding to the upper blue and lower red curve in the diagram, respectively. The vertical axis is the energy or frequency of phonon, while the horizontal axis is the wavevector. The boundaries at − and are those of the first Brillouin zone. A crystal with \"N\" ≥ 2 different atoms in the primitive cell exhibits three acoustic modes: one longitudinal acoustic mode and two transverse acoustic modes. The number of optical modes is 3\"N\" – 3. The lower figure shows the dispersion relations for several phonon modes in GaAs as a function of wavevector k in the principal directions of its Brillouin zone.\n\nMany phonon dispersion curves have been measured by neutron scattering.\n\nThe physics of sound in fluids differs from the physics of sound in solids, although both are density waves: sound waves in fluids only have longitudinal components, whereas sound waves in solids have longitudinal and transverse components. This is because fluids can't support shear stresses (but see viscoelastic fluids, which only apply to high frequencies).\n\nIn fact, the above-derived Hamiltonian looks like the classical Hamiltonian function, but if it is interpreted as an operator, then it describes a quantum field theory of non-interacting bosons.\n\nThe energy spectrum of this Hamiltonian is easily obtained by the method of ladder operators, similar to the quantum harmonic oscillator problem. We introduce a set of ladder operators defined by:\n\nBy direct insertion on the Hamiltonian, it is readily verified that\n\nAs with the quantum harmonic oscillator, one can show that \"b\" and \"b\" respectively create and destroy one excitation of energy \"ħω\". These excitations are phonons.\n\nTwo important properties of phonons may be deduced. Firstly, phonons are bosons, since any number of identical excitations can be created by repeated application of the creation operator \"b\". Secondly, each phonon is a \"collective mode\" caused by the motion of every atom in the lattice. This may be seen from the fact that the ladder operators contain sums over the position and momentum operators of every atom.\n\nIt is not \"a priori\" obvious that these excitations generated by the \"b\" operators are literally waves of lattice displacement, but one may convince oneself of this by calculating the \"position–position correlation function\". Let denote a state with a single quantum of mode \"k\" excited, i.e.\n\nOne can show that, for any two atoms \"j\" and \"l\",\n\nwhich has the form of a lattice wave with frequency \"ω\" and wavenumber \"k\".\n\nIn three dimensions the Hamiltonian has the form\n\nSolids with more than one atom in the smallest unit cell, exhibit two types of phonons: acoustic phonons and optical phonons.\n\nAcoustic phonons are coherent movements of atoms of the lattice out of their equilibrium positions. If the displacement is in the direction of propagation, then in some areas the atoms will be closer, in others farther apart, as in a sound wave in air (hence the name acoustic). Displacement perpendicular to the propagation direction is comparable to waves on a string. If the wavelength of acoustic phonons goes to infinity, this corresponds to a simple displacement of the whole crystal, and this costs zero deformation energy. Acoustic phonons exhibit a linear relationship between frequency and phonon wavevector for long wavelengths. The frequencies of acoustic phonons tend to zero with longer wavelength. Longitudinal and transverse acoustic phonons are often abbreviated as LA and TA phonons, respectively.\n\nOptical phonons are out-of-phase movements of the atoms in the lattice, one atom moving to the left, and its neighbour to the right. This occurs if the lattice basis consists of two or more atoms. They are called \"optical\" because in ionic crystals, like sodium chloride, they are excited by infrared radiation. The electric field of the light will move every positive sodium ion in the direction of the field, and every negative chloride ion in the other direction, sending the crystal vibrating.\n\nOptical phonons have a non-zero frequency at the Brillouin zone center and show no dispersion near that long wavelength limit. This is because they correspond to a mode of vibration where positive and negative ions at adjacent lattice sites swing against each other, creating a time-varying electrical dipole moment. Optical phonons that interact in this way with light are called \"infrared active\". Optical phonons that are \"Raman active\" can also interact indirectly with light, through Raman scattering. Optical phonons are often abbreviated as LO and TO phonons, for the longitudinal and transverse modes respectively; the splitting between LO and TO frequencies is often described accurately by the Lyddane–Sachs–Teller relation.\n\nWhen measuring optical phonon energy by experiment, optical phonon frequencies are sometimes given in spectroscopic wavenumber notation, where the symbol \"ω\" represents ordinary frequency (not angular frequency), and is expressed in units of cm. The value is obtained by dividing the frequency by the speed of light in vacuum. In other words, the frequency in cm units corresponds to the inverse of the wavelength of a photon in vacuum, that has the same frequency as the measured phonon. The cm is a unit of energy used frequently in the dispersion relations of both acoustic and optical phonons, see units of energy for more details and uses.\n\nBy analogy to photons and matter waves, phonons have been treated with wavevector \"k\" as though it has a momentum \"ħk\", however, this is not strictly correct, because \"ħk\" is not actually a physical momentum; it is called the \"crystal momentum\" or \"pseudomomentum\". This is because \"k\" is only determined up to addition of constant vectors (the reciprocal lattice vectors and integer multiples thereof). For example, in the one-dimensional model, the normal coordinates \"Q\" and \"Π\" are defined so that\n\nwhere\n\nfor any integer \"n\". A phonon with wavenumber \"k\" is thus equivalent to an infinite family of phonons with wavenumbers \"k\" ± , \"k\" ± , and so forth. Physically, the reciprocal lattice vectors act as additional chunks of momentum which the lattice can impart to the phonon. Bloch electrons obey a similar set of restrictions.\nIt is usually convenient to consider phonon wavevectors \"k\" which have the smallest magnitude |\"k\"| in their \"family\". The set of all such wavevectors defines the \"first Brillouin zone\". Additional Brillouin zones may be defined as copies of the first zone, shifted by some reciprocal lattice vector.\n\nThe thermodynamic properties of a solid are directly related to its phonon structure. The entire set of all possible phonons that are described by the above phonon dispersion relations combine in what is known as the phonon density of states which determines the heat capacity of a crystal.\n\nAt absolute zero temperature, a crystal lattice lies in its ground state, and contains no phonons. A lattice at a nonzero temperature has an energy that is not constant, but fluctuates randomly about some mean value. These energy fluctuations are caused by random lattice vibrations, which can be viewed as a gas of phonons. (The random motion of the atoms in the lattice is what we usually think of as heat.) Because these phonons are generated by the temperature of the lattice, they are sometimes designated thermal phonons.\n\nUnlike the atoms which make up an ordinary gas, thermal phonons can be created and destroyed by random energy fluctuations. In the language of statistical mechanics this means that the chemical potential for adding a phonon is zero. This behavior is an extension of the harmonic potential, mentioned earlier, into the anharmonic regime. The behavior of thermal phonons is similar to the photon gas produced by an electromagnetic cavity, wherein photons may be emitted or absorbed by the cavity walls. This similarity is not coincidental, for it turns out that the electromagnetic field behaves like a set of harmonic oscillators; see Black-body radiation. Both gases obey the Bose–Einstein statistics: in thermal equilibrium and within the harmonic regime, the probability of finding phonons (or photons) in a given state with a given angular frequency is:\n\nwhere \"ω\" is the frequency of the phonons (or photons) in the state, \"k\" is Boltzmann's constant, and \"T\" is the temperature.\n\nThe phonon Hamiltonian is given by\nIn terms of the operators, these are given by\nHere, in expressing the Hamiltonian in operator formalism, we have not taken into account the \"ħω\" term, since if we take an infinite lattice or, for that matter a continuum, the \"ħω\" terms will add up giving an infinity. Hence, it is \"renormalized\" by putting the factor of \"ħω\" to 0 arguing that the difference in energy is what we measure and not the absolute value of it. Hence, the \"ħω\" factor is absent in the operator formalised expression for the Hamiltonian.\n\nThe ground state also called the \"vacuum state\" is the state composed of no phonons. Hence, the energy of the ground state is 0. When, a system is in state , we say there are \"n\" phonons of type \"α\". The \"n\" are called the occupation number of the phonons. Energy of a single phonon of type \"α\" being \"ħω\", the total energy of a general phonon system is given by \"n\"\"ħω\" + \"n\"\"ħω\" +…. In other words, the phonons are non-interacting. The action of creation and annihilation operators are given by\nand,\ni.e. \"a\" creates a phonon of type \"α\" while \"a\" annihilates. Hence, they are respectively the creation and annihilation operator for phonons. Analogous to the quantum harmonic oscillator case, we can define particle number operator as\nThe number operator commutes with a string of products of the creation and annihilation operators if, the number of \"a\" are equal to number of \"a\".\n\nPhonons are bosons, since  =  i.e. they are symmetric under exchange.\n\nAs well as photons, phonons can interact via parametric down conversion and form squeezed coherent states.\n\nEven though phonons are often used as a quasiparticle, some popular research has shown that phonons and rotons may indeed have some kind of mass and be affected by gravity as standard particles are. In particular, phonons are predicted to have a kind of negative mass and negative gravity. This can be shown in how phonons are known to travel faster in denser materials. Because the part of a material pointing towards a gravitational source is closer to the object, it becomes denser on that end. From this, it is predicted that phonons would deflect away as it detects the difference in densities, exhibiting the qualities of a negative gravitational field. Although the effect would be too small to measure, it is possible that future equipment could lead to successful results.\n\nPhonons have also been predicted play a key role in the superconductivity in materials and the prediction of superconductive compounds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5219237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5219237", "title": "Richard Green (golfer)", "text": "Richard Green (golfer)\n\nRichard George Green (born 19 February 1971) is an Australian professional golfer.\n\nGreen was born in Williamstown, Melbourne, Victoria. He turned professional in 1992, and joined the PGA Tour of Australasia the same year.\n\nGreen has been a member of the European Tour since 1996, with his first win coming at the 1997 Dubai Desert Classic, where he became the first left-hander to win on the European Tour since Bob Charles at the Swiss Open in 1974. His consistent performances in 2004 took him to a career best European Tour Order of Merit finish of 17th. That same year he won the MasterCard Masters, which is one of Australia's most prestigious tournaments, and also topped the PGA Tour of Australasia's Order of Merit. In 2007 he won his second European Tour event at the BA-CA Golf Open in Austria.\n\nGreen holds a share of the course record at Carnoustie with a 64, achieved in the final round of the 2007 Open Championship. The round saw him jump 27 places on the last day of the tournament to finish in a tie for 4th with Ernie Els.\n\nHe has featured in the top 30 of the Official World Golf Ranking.\n\nGreen is also a keen motor racing fan and owns a Porsche 911 racing car in which he has competed in the Australian GT Championship on occasion as touring schedules allow, including racing on the support card of the 2009 Australian Grand Prix. Among the cars he has owned in the past (and has since sold) included the Bathurst 1000 winning Perkins Engineering Holden Commodore, Perkins Engineering Chassis 027.\n\nEuropean Tour playoff record (2–2)\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6763358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6763358", "title": "Sidney Franklin (director)", "text": "Sidney Franklin (director)\n\nSidney Arnold Franklin (March 21, 1893 – May 18, 1972) was an American film director and producer. Franklin, like William C. deMille, specialized in adapting literary works or Broadway stage plays.\n\nHis brother Chester Franklin (1889–1954) also became a director during the silent film era best known for directing the early Technicolor film \"The Toll of the Sea\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21328670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21328670", "title": "Sydney Smith Haldimand Dickens", "text": "Sydney Smith Haldimand Dickens\n\nSydney Smith Haldimand Dickens (18 April 1847 – 2 May 1872) was a Royal Navy officer; the fifth son and seventh child of English novelist Charles Dickens and his wife Catherine.\n\nAn endearing child, nicknamed \"The Ocean Spectre\" and \"The Admiral\" by his father, Sydney Dickens was born at 3 Chester Place and baptized at the church of St. Mary in Marylebone in London on 24 June 1847, his godfathers being William Haldimand of Lausanne, and Henry Porter Smith (1797 - 1880), an actuary for the Eagle Life Assurance Company. He was educated at Brackenbury's Military School at Wimbledon and at Mr Gibson's boarding school in Boulogne-sur-Mer, with his brothers, Alfred and Henry.\n\nWhen aged 3, and staying with the family at Broadstairs, his father asked him if he would walk to the railway station to meet John Forster, who was coming for a visit. Without hesitation Sydney answered \"Yes\" and set off through the garden gate and down the street until another of the children ran after him and fetched him back. Aged 13 he joined Eastman's Naval Academy in Southsea, intending to train as a naval officer, a move designed by his father to encourage him to become self-sufficient in life. As a boy he had shown great energy and character, and was described by his father as a \"born little sailor\". On 11 September 1860, aged 14, Sydney Dickens joined the Royal Navy as a cadet on the training ship . After his initial training he was posted to on 6 December 1861.\n\nHe was promoted midshipman on 7 March 1862. On 19 May 1864 his career suffered a setback when he was docked a year's seniority \"for misconduct\"; however, following a period of satisfactory conduct, 8 months of that time was restored to him on 9 November 1866. On 30 August 1867 he was promoted to acting sub-lieutenant, and received substantive promotion on 30 November 1867.\n\nHe was promoted acting lieutenant on 20 April 1868, reverted to sub lieutenant on 27 August 1868, had a further period as an acting lieutenant from 19 July 1869 to 28 February 1870, and finally received substantive promotion on 6 February. Charles Dickens was proud of Sydney's naval career, but was unhappy that he had fallen heavily into debt, and refused to help him. Indeed, at one stage Sydney became so reckless with money that his father refused to allow him into the house, and in later years his sister, Mamie Dickens, said she thought of him with \"contempt\" and even \"horror\".\n\nWhilst serving on Sydney Dickens was invalided out of the Navy due to ill health on 22 April 1872. He remained aboard \"Topaze\" for the passage home from India to England, and died at sea a few days later. He was buried at sea in the Indian Ocean.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30455493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30455493", "title": "Thought recording and reproduction device", "text": "Thought recording and reproduction device\n\nA thought recording and reproduction device refers to any machine which is able to both directly record and reproduce, via a brain-computer interface, the thoughts, emotions, dreams or other neural/cognitive events of a subject for that or other subjects to experience. While currently residing within mostly fictional displays of the capacity of such devices, the idea has received increased scientific currency since the development of the first BCI-enabled devices.\n\nThe term oneirography, referring to the recording of dreams, is also a synonym for the above\n\nThis hypothetical technology is a key element in some of the early short stories of William Gibson, including his 1977 debut Fragments of a Hologram Rose, where it is called ASP (Apparent Sensory Perception). In his Sprawl trilogy, it is termed Simstim (Simulation Stimulation), and described as the most popular form of entertainment, perhaps equivalent to 20th century pop music. Whereas most instances depict a heavily edited documentary version, replaying an approximation of the actual experience of the person recorded, in The Winter Market a version able to record dreams and imaginations exists.\n\nA number of films from the 1980s onwards, such as \"Brainstorm\" (1983), \"Until the End of the World\" (1991), \"Strange Days\" (1995), \"\" (2001), depict the technology and its ramifications.\n\nIn December 2008, Advanced Telecommunications Research Institute International's Department of Cognitive Neuroscience announced its own research into the translation of neural signals into images. In addition, Dr. Moran Cerf of UCLA published a 2010 paper for \"Nature\" which claimed that he and other fellow researchers were on the cusp of being able to allow psychologists to interpret thoughts by corroborating people's recollections of their dream with an electronic visualization of their brain activity. The research outcome has often been popularized as a device that could record dreams. However, Moran Cerf says he never made that claim and only said that such a device is a theoretical possibility.\n\nBCI devices currently are able to translate a limited subset of neural signals into digital signals, most of which are utilized for motor-centric controls of attached devices. The translation of images which are perceived or conceived within the brain has not yet been fully achieved.\n\n"}
{"id": "440536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=440536", "title": "USS Grunion", "text": "USS Grunion\n\nThe USS \"Grunion\" (SS-216) was a \"Gato\"-class submarine that was sunk at Kiska, Alaska, during World War II. She was the only ship of the United States Navy to be named for the grunion, a small fish of the silversides family, indigenous to the western American coast.\n\nHer keel was laid down by the Electric Boat Company in Groton, Connecticut on 1 March 1941. She was launched on 22 December 1941, (sponsored by Mrs. Stanford C. Hooper, wife of Rear Admiral Hooper), and commissioned on 11 April 1942 with Lieutenant Commander (Lt. Cmdr.) Mannert L. Abele, USNA class of 1926 in command.\n\nAfter shakedown out of New London, the \"Grunion\" sailed for the Pacific on 24 May. A week later, as she transited the Caribbean Sea for Panama, she rescued 16 survivors of the USAT \"Jack\", which had been torpedoed by the , and conducted a fruitless search for 13 other survivors presumed to be in the vicinity. Arriving at Coco Solo on 3 June, the \"Grunion\" landed the survivors and continued on to Pearl Harbor, arriving on 20 June.\n\nDeparting Hawaii on 30 June after ten days of intensive training, the \"Grunion\" touched Midway Island before heading toward the Aleutian Islands for her first war patrol. Her first report, made as she patrolled north of Kiska Island, stated she had been attacked by a Japanese destroyer and had fired torpedoes at her with inconclusive results. She operated off Kiska throughout July and sank two enemy patrol boats as she waited for enemy shipping. On 30 July, the submarine reported intensive antisubmarine activity and was ordered back to Dutch Harbor.\n\nThe \"Grunion\" was never heard from again. Air searches off Kiska were fruitless, and on 5 October the \"Grunion\" was reported overdue from patrol and assumed lost with all hands. Her name was stricken from the Naval Vessel Register on 2 November 1942. Captured Japanese records show no antisubmarine attacks in the Kiska area, and the fate of \"Grunion\" remained a mystery for 65 years, until the discovery in the Bering Sea in August 2007 of a wreck believed to be her. In October 2008, the U.S. Navy verified that the wreck is the \"Grunion\".\n\nThe \"Grunion\" received one battle star for her World War II service.\n\nIn 1998 Lieut. Col. Richard Lane purchased for $1 a wiring diagram from a Japanese cargo ship, the \"Kano Maru\", which had been active during World War II. Hoping to authenticate the document, Lane posted it on a Japanese naval historical website, asking if anyone could help. He was contacted by Yutaka Iwasaki, a Japanese naval historian, who not only authenticated it, but suggested he knew what happened to the \"Grunion\". Lane contacted ComSubPac, and their public affairs officer, Darrel Ames, posted the information on ComSubPac’s \"Grunion\" website.\n\nWhen the \"Grunion\" disappeared in 1942, her captain, Lt Cmdr Abele, left behind three sons – Bruce, Brad, and John. For nearly 65 years they had been searching for information about the loss of their father’s boat.\n\nWhen the Abele brothers encountered the post, they contacted Yutaka Iwasaki. He sent them a translation of an article written by the officer who had commanded the merchant ship \"Kano Maru\". The article described an encounter with a submarine near Kiska Island in the Aleutians about the time the \"Grunion\" was reported missing.\n\nSeveral years later, John Abele, cofounder of Boston Scientific, met Dr. Robert Ballard, famous for discovering the RMS Titanic's wreckage. Ballard gave him advice on how to locate a shipwreck, and Abele decided to fund an expedition to find the lost submarine \"Grunion\".\n\nIn 2006, Williamson Associates, using side-scan sonar, located a promising target at almost at the exact location indicated by the commander of the \"Kano Maru\". The sunken object had many characteristics typical of a submarine.\n\nIn 2007, using a ROV, DSSI/Oceaneering returned to the site and took video recordings of the imploded remains of a submarine, which had markings in English, and propeller guards and limber holes identical to those of the \"Grunion\". The following year, the US Navy confirmed that the find was the \"Grunion\".\n\nAlthough it is not absolutely certain, the evidence strongly suggests that the \"Grunion\" was lost as a result of multiple torpedo failures during her encounter with the \"Kano Maru\". Her first torpedo ran low, but despite its magnetic pistol it failed to detonate. Two more bounced harmlessly off the \"Kano Maru\" without exploding. However, the remaining torpedo missed its target and circled back, striking the periscope supports on the submerged submarine without exploding.\n\nThe damage the torpedo inflicted, combined with a jammed rear dive plane, triggered a sequence of events that caused the loss of depth control. The \"Grunion\" lunged below her maximum operational depth, and at about 1000 feet would have imploded. What remained of the ship struck the seabed, breaking off about 50 feet of her bow. The wreckage then slid two-thirds of a mile down the side of an extinct volcano, coming to rest on a notch in the underwater mountain.\n\n"}
{"id": "16760187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16760187", "title": "William Aiken", "text": "William Aiken\n\nWilliam Aiken (1779 – May 5, 1831), or William Aiken, Sr., was the founder and president of the pioneering South Carolina Canal and Rail Road Company.\n\nBorn in County Antrim, Ireland, he immigrated to Charleston, South Carolina at age 10. He married Henrietta Watt in 1801. They raised two children, living in 456 King Street from 1807 until his death in 1831.\n\nThe railroad was organized in a meeting at this house in 1827, and Aiken was chosen as President. Construction of the railroad began in January 1830.\nHe was killed in a Charleston carriage accident caused by the train's noise frightening his horse. The railroad was completed in 1833, and was the longest railroad, at 136 miles, under one management, in the world.\n\nA historic district comprising one of his homes and selected structures of the railway, William Aiken House and Associated Railroad Structures, was listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places and was further declared to be a National Historic Landmark.\n\nAlso another home of his known as the Robinson-Aiken House, which his son, William Aiken, Jr., a governor of South Carolina, acquired after his death, also was listed on the National Register. This home is also known as the Gov. William Aiken House.\n"}
{"id": "2161664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2161664", "title": "Women's International League for Peace and Freedom", "text": "Women's International League for Peace and Freedom\n\nThe Women's International League for Peace and Freedom (WILPF) is a non-profit non-governmental organization working \"to bring together women of different political views and philosophical and religious backgrounds determined to study and make known the causes of war and work for a permanent peace\" and to unite women worldwide who oppose oppression and exploitation. WILPF has national sections in 37 countries.\n\nThe WILPF is headquartered in Geneva and maintains a United Nations office in New York City.\n\nWILPF developed out of the International Women's Congress against World War I that took place in The Hague, Netherlands, in 1915; the name WILPF was not chosen until 1919. The first WILPF president, Jane Addams, had previously founded the Woman's Peace Party in the United States, in January 1915, this group later became the US section of WILPF. Along with Jane Addams, Marian Cripps and Margaret E. Dungan were also founding members. As of 1920 the US section of WILPF was headquartered in New York City. Marian Cripps, Baroness Parmoor, who later served as president of its British branch.\n\nFurthermore, Women’s international league for peace and freedom opposed to wars and international conflicts. Since it is an undeniable fact that wars will violate individual’s peace and freedom, the league organised and took formal actions to end the war. The major movements of the league are open letter to UN secretary general to formally end the Korean War, International day for the total elimination of nuclear weapons and statement on weapons, gender-based violence and women human rights defenders. As the league is consisted of women, concentrated professionals are allowed to improve the current issues related to women and people. \n\nA forerunner to the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom, the Woman's Peace Party (WPP) was formed in January, 1915 in Washington, D.C. at a meeting called by Jane Addams and Carrie Chapman Catt. The approximately 3,000 women attendees approved a platform calling for the extension of suffrage to women and for a conference of neutral countries to offer continuous mediation as a way of ending war.\n\nWPP sent representatives to a subsequent International Women's Congress for Peace and Freedom, held in The Hague from April 28–30, 1915.\n\nThe 1915 International Congress of Women was organized by the German feminist Anita Augspurg, Germany's first female jurist, and Lida Gustava Heymann (1868–1943) at the invitation of the Dutch pacifist, feminist and suffragist Aletta Jacobs to protest the war then raging in Europe, and to suggest ways to prevent war in the future. The Congress opened on April 28, wound up on May 1, and was attended by 1,136 participants from both neutral and belligerent nations, adopted much of the platform of WPP and established an International Committee of Women for Permanent Peace (ICWPP) with Jane Addams as president. WPP soon became the US Section of ICWPP.\n\nJane Addams met with President Woodrow Wilson and is said to have worked out some common ground on peace. However, at their second international congress, held in Zürich in 1919, ICWPP denounced the final terms of the peace treaty ending World War I as a scheme of revenge of the victors over the vanquished that would sow the seeds of another world war. They decided to make their committee permanent and renamed it the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. WILPF moved its headquarters to Geneva to be near the proposed site of the League of Nations, although WILPF did not endorse empowering that organization to conduct food blockades or to use military pressure to enforce its resolutions. The League called for international disarmament and an end to economic imperialism. The US branch of WILPF grew in recognition and membership during the post-WWI era, despite some attacks on the organisation as \"unpatriotic\" during the First Red Scare. The WILPF supported treaties such as the Washington Naval Treaty and the Kellogg-Briand Pact, regarding them as stepping stones to a peaceful world order.\n\nDuring the 1930s, Vera Brittain was the WILPF's Vice-President.\n\nPrior to the outbreak of World War Two, the League also supported measures to provide relief for Europe's Jewish community.\n\nAlthough WIPLF membership is restricted to women, several male peace activists have contributed to WIPLF meetings and publications, including Bart de Ligt and J. D. Bernal.\n\nTwo WILPF leaders have received the Nobel Peace Prize for their peace efforts and international outlook and work with WILPF: Jane Addams, in 1931 and Emily Greene Balch in 1946.\n\nWILPF has had Consultative Status (category B) with the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) since 1948 and has Special Consultative Relations with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), as well as special relations with the International Labour Organization (ILO), Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and other organizations and agencies. WILPF has advocates and lobbies for the democratization of the UN, the Security Council and all other UN organizations and agencies; monitors Security Council and General Assembly activities in order to promote reforms; opposes the privatisation and corporatisation of the UN, especially the global compact with corporations; and advocates for the abolition of the Security Council veto.\n\nWILPF envisions a world free of violence, poverty, pollution and dominance. WILPF stands for equality of all people in a world free of racism, sexism and homophobia; the building of a constructive peace through world disarmament; and the changing of government priorities to meet human needs.\n\nBroad areas of concern are:\n\nPeaceWomen is a project of the WILPF, based out of their United Nations office in New York City. Its mission is described on its website as follows:\n\nThe PeaceWomen Project promotes the role of women in preventing conflict, and the equal and full participation of women in all efforts to create and maintain international peace and security. PeaceWomen facilitates monitoring of the UN system, information sharing and the enabling of meaningful dialogue for positive impact on women’s lives in conflict and post-conflict environments. \n\nPeaceWomen's work focuses on six core areas of action to promote its mission:\n\nWILPF's list of members include Jane Addams, Aletta Jacobs, Alice Walker, Coretta Scott King, Madeleine Rees, Cornelia Ramondt-Hirschmann, Selma Meyer, Brandy G. Robinson, Margaret Hills (née Robertson), and Shina Inoue Kan.\n\nWILPF's international records are held at the University of Colorado Boulder. They contain the reports of the congresses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9810476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9810476", "title": "Zombie", "text": "Zombie\n\nA zombie (Haitian French: \"\", ) is a fictional undead being created through the reanimation of a human corpse. Zombies are most commonly found in horror and fantasy genre works. The term comes from Haitian folklore, where a \"zombie\" is a dead body reanimated through various methods, most commonly magic. Modern depictions of the reanimation of the dead do not necessarily involve magic but often invoke science fictional methods such as carriers, radiation, mental diseases, vectors, pathogens, scientific accidents, etc.\n\nThe English word \"zombie\" is first recorded in 1819, in a history of Brazil by the poet Robert Southey, in the form of \"zombi\". The Oxford English Dictionary gives the origin of the word as West African, and compares it to the Kongo words ' (god) and ' (fetish). A Kimbundu-to -Portuguese dictionary from 1903 defines the related word nzumbi as soul, while a later KimbunduPortuguese dictionary defines it as being a \"spirit that is supposed to wander the earth to torment the living.\" \n\nOne of the first books to expose Western culture to the concept of the voodoo zombie was \"The Magic Island\" by W. B. Seabrook in 1929. This is the sensationalized account of a narrator who encounters voodoo cults in Haiti and their resurrected thralls. \"Time\" claimed that the book \"introduced 'zombi' into U.S. speech\".\n\nZombies have a complex literary heritage, with antecedents ranging from Richard Matheson and H. P. Lovecraft to Mary Shelley's \"Frankenstein\" drawing on European folklore of the undead. In 1932, Victor Halperin directed \"White Zombie\", a horror film starring Bela Lugosi. Here zombies are depicted as mindless, unthinking henchmen under the spell of an evil magician. Zombies, often still using this voodoo-inspired rationale, were initially uncommon in cinema, but their appearances continued sporadically through the 1930s to the 1960s, with notable films including \"I Walked with a Zombie\" (1943) and \"Plan 9 from Outer Space\" (1959).\n\nA new version of the zombie, distinct from that described in Haitian folklore, has also emerged in popular culture during the latter half of the twentieth century. This \"zombie\" is taken largely from George A. Romero's seminal film \"Night of the Living Dead\", which was in turn partly inspired by Richard Matheson's 1954 novel \"I Am Legend\". The word \"zombie\" is not used in \"Night of the Living Dead\" but was applied later by fans. The monsters in the film and its sequels, such as \"Dawn of the Dead\" and \"Day of the Dead\", as well as its many inspired works, such as \"Return of the Living Dead\" and \"Zombi 2\", are usually hungry for human flesh, although \"Return of the Living Dead\" introduced the popular concept of zombies eating brains. The \"zombie apocalypse\" concept, in which the civilized world is brought low by a global zombie infestation, became a staple of modern popular art.\n\nThe English word \"zombie\" is first recorded in 1819, in a history of Brazil by the poet Robert Southey, in the form of \"zombi\", actually referring to the Afro-Brazilian rebel leader named Zumbi and the etymology of his name in \"nzambi\". The Oxford English Dictionary gives the origin of the word as West African and compares it to the Kongo words \"nzambi\" (god) and \"zumbi\" (fetish).\n\nIn Haitian folklore, a \"zombie\" (Haitian French: \"zombi\", Haitian Creole: \"zonbi\") is an animated corpse raised by magical means, such as witchcraft.\n\nThe concept has been popularly associated with the religion of voodoo, but it plays no part in that faith's formal practices.\n\nHow the creatures in contemporary zombie films came to be called \"zombies\" is not fully clear. The film \"Night of the Living Dead\" made no spoken reference to its undead antagonists as \"zombies\", describing them instead as \"ghouls\" (though ghouls, which derive from Arabic folklore, are demons, not undead). Although George Romero used the term \"ghoul\" in his original scripts, in later interviews he used the term \"zombie\". The word \"zombie\" is used exclusively by Romero in his 1978 script for his sequel \"Dawn of the Dead\", including once in dialog. According to George Romero, film critics were influential in associating the term \"zombie\" to his creatures, and especially the French magazine \"Cahiers du Cinéma\". He eventually accepted this linkage, even though he remained convinced at the time that \"zombies\" corresponded to the undead slaves of Haitian voodoo as depicted in Bela Lugosi's \"White Zombie\".\n\nZombies are featured widely in Haitian rural folklore as dead persons physically revived by the act of necromancy of a \"bokor\", a sorcerer or witch. The \"bokor\" is opposed by the \"houngan\" or priest and the \"mambo\" or priestess of the formal voodoo religion. A zombie remains under the control of the \"bokor\" as a personal slave, having no will of its own.\n\nThe Haitian tradition also includes an incorporeal type of zombie, the \"zombie astral\", which is a part of the human soul. A \"bokor\" can capture a zombie astral to enhance his spiritual power. A zombie astral can also be sealed inside a specially decorated bottle by a \"bokor\" and sold to a client to bring luck, healing, or business success. It is believed that God eventually will reclaim the zombie's soul, so the zombie is a temporary spiritual entity.\n\nIt has been suggested that the two types of zombie reflect soul dualism, a belief of Haitian voodoo. Each type of legendary zombie is therefore missing one half of its soul (the flesh or the spirit).\n\nThe zombie belief has its roots in traditions brought to Haiti by enslaved Africans, and their subsequent experiences in the New World. It was thought that the voodoo deity Baron Samedi would gather them from their grave to bring them to a heavenly afterlife in Africa (\"Guinea\"), unless they had offended him in some way, in which case they would be forever a slave after death, as a zombie. A zombie could also be saved by feeding them salt. English professor Amy Wilentz has written that the modern concept of Zombies was strongly influenced by Haitian slavery. Slave drivers on the plantations, who were usually slaves themselves and sometimes Voodoo priests, used the fear of zombification to discourage slaves from committing suicide.\n\nWhile most scholars have associated the Haitian zombie with African cultures, a connection has also been suggested to the island's indigenous Taíno people, partly based on an early account of native shamanist practices written by the Hieronymite monk Ramón Pané, a companion of Christopher Columbus.\n\nThe Haitian zombie phenomenon first attracted widespread international attention during the United States occupation of Haiti (1915–1934), when a number of case histories of purported \"zombies\" began to emerge. The first popular book covering the topics was William Seabrook's \"The Magic Island\" (1929). Seabrooke cited Article 246 of the Haitian criminal code which was passed in 1864, asserting that it was an official recognition of zombies. This passage was later used in promotional materials for the 1932 film \"White Zombie\".\n\nIn 1937, while researching folklore in Haiti, Zora Neale Hurston encountered the case of a woman who appeared in a village. A family claimed she was Felicia Felix-Mentor, a relative who had died and been buried in 1907 at the age of 29. The woman was examined by a doctor; X-rays indicated that she did not have a leg fracture that Felix-Mentor was known to have had. Hurston pursued rumors that affected persons were given a powerful psychoactive drug, but she was unable to locate individuals willing to offer much information. She wrote, \"What is more, if science ever gets to the bottom of Vodou in Haiti and Africa, it will be found that some important medical secrets, still unknown to medical science, give it its power, rather than gestures of ceremony.\"\n\nA Central or West African origin for the Haitian zombie has been postulated based on two etymologies in the Kongo language, \"nzambi\" (\"god\") and \"zumbi\" (\"fetish\"). This root helps form the names of several deities, including the Kongo creator deity Nzambi a Mpungu and the Louisiana serpent deity Li Grand Zombi (a local version of the Haitian Damballa), but it is in fact a generic word for a divine spirit. The common African conception of beings under these names is more similar to the incorporeal \"zombie astral\", as in the Kongo Nkisi spirits.\n\nA related, but also often incorporeal, undead being is the jumbee of the English-speaking Caribbean, considered to be of the same etymology; in the French West Indies also, local \"zombies\" are recognized, but these are of a more general spirit nature.\n\nThe idea of physical zombie-like creatures is present in some South African cultures, where they are called \"xidachane\" in Sotho/Tsonga and \"maduxwane\" in Venda. In some communities, it is believed that a dead person can be zombified by a small child. It is said that the spell can be broken by a powerful enough sangoma. It is also believed in some areas of South Africa that witches can zombify a person by killing and possessing the victim's body in order to force it into slave labor. After rail lines were built to transport migrant workers, stories emerged about \"witch trains\". These trains appeared ordinary, but were staffed by zombified workers controlled by a witch. The trains would abduct a person boarding at night, and the person would then either be turned into a zombified worker, or beaten and thrown from the train a distance away from the original location.\n\nSeveral decades after Hurston's work, Wade Davis, a Harvard ethnobotanist, presented a pharmacological case for zombies in a 1983 paper in the \"Journal of Ethnopharmacology\", and later in two popular books, \"The Serpent and the Rainbow\" (1985) and \"Passage of Darkness: The Ethnobiology of the Haitian Zombie \"(1988).\n\nDavis traveled to Haiti in 1982 and, as a result of his investigations, claimed that a living person can be turned into a zombie by two special powders being introduced into the blood stream (usually via a wound). The first, \"coup de poudre\" (French: \"powder strike\"), includes tetrodotoxin (TTX), a powerful and frequently fatal neurotoxin found in the flesh of the pufferfish (order Tetraodontidae). The second powder consists of deliriant drugs such as datura. Together, these powders were said to induce a deathlike state in which the will of the victim would be entirely subjected to that of the bokor. Davis also popularized the story of Clairvius Narcisse, who was claimed to have succumbed to this practice. The most ethically questioned and least scientifically explored ingredient of the powders, is part of a recently buried child's brain.\n\nThe process described by Davis was an initial state of deathlike suspended animation, followed by re-awakening — typically \"after\" being buried — into a psychotic state. The psychosis induced by the drug and psychological trauma was hypothesised by Davis to reinforce culturally learned beliefs and to cause the individual to reconstruct their identity as that of a zombie, since they \"knew\" they were dead, and had no other role to play in the Haitian society. Societal reinforcement of the belief was hypothesized by Davis to confirm for the zombie individual the zombie state, and such individuals were known to hang around in graveyards, exhibiting attitudes of low affect.\n\nDavis's claim has been criticized, particularly the suggestion that Haitian witch doctors can keep \"zombies\" in a state of pharmacologically induced trance for many years. Symptoms of TTX poisoning range from numbness and nausea to paralysis — particularly of the muscles of the diaphragm — unconsciousness, and death, but do not include a stiffened gait or a deathlike trance. According to psychologist Terence Hines, the scientific community dismisses tetrodotoxin as the cause of this state, and Davis' assessment of the nature of the reports of Haitian zombies is viewed as overly credulous.\n\nScottish psychiatrist R. D. Laing highlighted the link between social and cultural expectations and compulsion, in the context of schizophrenia and other mental illness, suggesting that schizogenesis may account for some of the psychological aspects of zombification. Particularly, this suggests cases where schizophrenia manifests a state of catatonia.\n\nRoland Littlewood, professor of anthropology and psychiatry, published a study supporting a social explanation of the zombie phenomenon in the medical journal \"The Lancet\" in 1997.\nThe social explanation sees observed cases of people identified as zombies as a culture-bound syndrome, with a particular cultural form of adoption practiced in Haiti that unites the homeless and mentally ill with grieving families who see them as their \"returned\" lost loved ones, as Littlewood summarizes his findings in an article in \"Times Higher Education\":\n\nPulliam and Fonseca (2014) and Walz (2006) trace the zombie lineage back to ancient Mesopotamia. In the \"Descent of Ishtar\", the goddess Ishtar threatens:\n\nShe repeats this same threat in a slightly modified form in the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\".\n\"Frankenstein\" by Mary Shelley, while not a zombie novel in particular, prefigures many 20th-century ideas about zombies in that the resurrection of the dead is portrayed as a scientific process rather than a mystical one, and that the resurrected dead are degraded and more violent than their living selves. \"Frankenstein\", published in 1818, has its roots in European folklore, whose tales of vengeful dead also informed the evolution of the modern conception of the vampire. Later notable 19th-century stories about the avenging undead included Ambrose Bierce's \"The Death of Halpin Frayser\", and various Gothic Romanticism tales by Edgar Allan Poe. Though their works could not be properly considered zombie fiction, the supernatural tales of Bierce and Poe would prove influential on later writers such as H. P. Lovecraft, by Lovecraft's own admission.\n\nIn the 1920s and early 1930s, the American horror author H. P. Lovecraft wrote several novellae that explored the undead theme. \"Cool Air\", \"In the Vault\", and \"The Outsider\" all deal with the undead, but Lovecraft's \"Herbert West–Reanimator\" (1921) \"helped define zombies in popular culture\". This series of short stories featured Herbert West, a mad scientist who attempts to revive human corpses with mixed results. Notably, the resurrected dead are uncontrollable, mostly mute, primitive and extremely violent; though they are not referred to as zombies, their portrayal was prescient, anticipating the modern conception of zombies by several decades. Edgar Rice Burroughs similarly depicted animated corpses in the second book of his Venus series, again without ever using the terms \"zombie\" or \"undead\".\n\nAvenging zombies would feature prominently in the early 1950s EC Comics, which George A. Romero would later claim as an influence. The comics, including \"Tales from the Crypt\", \"Vault of Horror\" and \"Weird Science\", featured avenging undead in the Gothic tradition quite regularly, including adaptations of Lovecraft's stories, which included \"In the Vault\", \"Cool Air\" and \"Herbert West–Reanimator\".\n\nRichard Matheson's 1954 novel \"I Am Legend\", although classified as a vampire story would nonetheless have definitive impact on the zombie genre by way of George A. Romero. The novel and its 1964 film adaptation, \"The Last Man on Earth\", which concern a lone human survivor waging war against a world of vampires, would by Romero's own admission greatly influence his 1968 low-budget film \"Night of the Living Dead\"; a work that would prove to be more influential on the concept of zombies than any literary or cinematic work before it.\n\nFilms featuring zombies have been a part of cinema since the 1930s, with \"White Zombie\" (directed by Victor Halperin in 1932) being one of the earliest examples. With George A. Romero's \"Night of the Living Dead\" (1968), the zombie trope began to be increasingly linked to consumerism and consumer culture. Today, zombie films are released with such regularity (at least 55 titles were released in 2014 alone) that they can be viewed as a separate subgenre of Horror film.\n\nVoodoo-related zombie themes have also appeared in espionage or adventure themed works outside the horror genre. For example, the original \"Jonny Quest\" series (1964) and the James Bond novel and movie \"Live and Let Die\" both feature Caribbean villains who falsely claim the voodoo power of zombification in order to keep others in fear of them.\n\nThe modern conception of the zombie owes itself almost entirely to George A. Romero's 1968 film \"Night of the Living Dead\". In his films, Romero \"bred the zombie with the vampire, and what he got was the hybrid vigour of a ghoulish plague monster\". This entailed an apocalyptic vision of monsters that have come to be known as Romero zombies.\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" chided theater owners and parents who allowed children access to the film. \"I don't think the younger kids really knew what hit them,\" complained Ebert. \"They were used to going to movies, sure, and they'd seen some horror movies before, sure, but this was something else.\" According to Ebert, the film affected the audience immediately:\"The kids in the audience were stunned. There was almost complete silence. The movie had stopped being delightfully scary about halfway through, and had become unexpectedly terrifying. There was a little girl across the aisle from me, maybe nine years old, who was sitting very still in her seat and crying.\" Romero's reinvention of zombies is notable in terms of its thematics; he used zombies not just for their own sake, but as a vehicle \"to criticize real-world social ills—such as government ineptitude, bioengineering, slavery, greed and exploitation—while indulging our post-apocalyptic fantasies\". \"Night\" was the first of six films in Romero's \"Living Dead\" series. Its first sequel, \"Dawn of the Dead\", was released in 1978.\n\nLucio Fulci's \"Zombi 2\" was released just months after \"Dawn of the Dead\" as an ersatz sequel (\"Dawn of the Dead\" was released in several other countries as \"Zombi\" or \"Zombie\").\n\nThe 1981 film \"Hell of the Living Dead\" referenced a mutagenic gas as a source of zombie contagion: an idea also used in Dan O'Bannon's 1985 film \"Return of the Living Dead\". \"Return of the Living Dead\" featured zombies that hungered specifically for brains.\n\nThe mid-1980s produced few zombie films of note. Perhaps the most notable entry, \"The Evil Dead\" series, while highly influential are not technically zombie films but films about demonic possession, despite the presence of the undead. 1985's \"Re-Animator\", loosely based on the Lovecraft story, stood out in the genre, achieving nearly unanimous critical acclaim, and becoming a modest success, nearly outstripping Romero's \"Day of the Dead\" for box office returns.\n\nAfter the mid-1980s, the subgenre was mostly relegated to the underground. Notable entries include director Peter Jackson's ultra-gory film \"Braindead\" (1992) (released as \"Dead Alive\" in the U.S.), Bob Balaban's comic 1993 film \"My Boyfriend's Back\" where a self-aware high school boy returns to profess his love for a girl and his love for human flesh, and Michele Soavi's \"Dellamorte Dellamore\" (1994) (released as \"Cemetery Man\" in the U.S.). Several years later, zombies experienced a renaissance in low-budget Asian cinema, with a sudden spate of dissimilar entries including \"Bio Zombie\" (1998), \"Wild Zero\" (1999), \"Junk\" (1999), \"Versus\" (2000) and \"Stacy\" (2001).\n\nThere are not many Japanese films related to what may be considered in the West as a zombie film. Early films such as \"The Discarnates\" features little gore and no cannibalism but is about the dead returning to life looking for love rather than a story of apocalyptic destruction. The zombie themed video game \"Resident Evil\" (1996) was released to sales of 24 million copies worldwide. Most Japanese zombie films emerged in the wake of \"Resident Evil\", such as \"Versus\", \"Wild Zero\", \"Junk\" all from 2000. The zombies film released after \"Resident Evil\" behave similarly to the Zombie films of the 1970s.\n\nThe turn of the millennium coincided with a decade of box-office successes in which the zombie subgenre experienced a resurgence: the \"Resident Evil\" movies (2002, 2004, 2007, 2010, 2012, 2016), the British films \"28 Days Later\" and \"28 Weeks Later\" (2002, 2007), the \"Dawn of the Dead\" remake (2004) and the comedies \"Shaun of the Dead\" (2004) and \"Dance of the Dead\" (2008). The new interest allowed Romero to create the fourth entry in his zombie series: \"Land of the Dead\", released in the summer of 2005. Romero returned to the series with the films \"Diary of the Dead\" (2008) and \"Survival of the Dead\" (2010). \nGenerally, the zombies in these shows are the slow, lumbering and unintelligent kind first made popular in \"Night of the Living Dead\". Motion pictures created within the 2000s, however, like the \"Dawn of the Dead\" remake, and \"House of the Dead\", have featured zombies that are more agile, vicious, intelligent, and stronger than the traditional zombie. An alternate take on the zombie was 2013's film (and book) \"Warm Bodies\", where the zombie has consciousness and some intelligence.\n\nIn 2013, the AMC series \"The Walking Dead\" had the highest audience ratings in the United States for any show on broadcast or cable with an average of 5.6 million viewers in the 18- to 49-year-old demographic.\n\nIntimately tied to the concept of the modern zombie is the \"zombie apocalypse\"; the breakdown of society as a result of an initial zombie outbreak that spreads. This archetype has emerged as a prolific subgenre of apocalyptic fiction and has been portrayed in many zombie-related media after \"Night of the Living Dead\". In a zombie apocalypse, a widespread (usually global) rise of zombies hostile to human life engages in a general assault on civilization. Victims of zombies may become zombies themselves. This causes the outbreak to become an exponentially growing crisis: the spreading phenomenon swamps normal military and law enforcement organizations, leading to the panicked collapse of civilized society until only isolated pockets of survivors remain, scavenging for food and supplies in a world reduced to a pre-industrial hostile wilderness. Possible causes for zombie behavior in a modern population can be attributed to viruses, bacteria or other phenomena that reduce the mental capacity of humans causing them to behave in a very primitive and destructive fashion. \n\nThe usual subtext of the zombie apocalypse is that civilization is inherently vulnerable to the unexpected, and that most individuals if desperate enough cannot be relied on to comply with the author's ethos. The narrative of a zombie apocalypse carries strong connections to the turbulent social landscape of the United States in the 1960s, when \"Night of the Living Dead\" provided an indirect commentary on the dangers of conformity, a theme also explored in the novel \"The Body Snatchers\" (1954) and associated film \"Invasion of the Body Snatchers\" (1956). Many also feel that zombies allow people to deal with their own anxieties about the end of the world. One scholar concluded that \"more than any other monster, zombies are fully and literally apocalyptic ... they signal the end of the world as we have known it.\" While zombie apocalypse scenarios are secular, they follow a religious pattern based on Christian ideas of an end-times war and messiah.\n\nDue to a large number of thematic films and video games, the idea of a zombie apocalypse has entered the mainstream, and many fans have begun making efforts to prepare for the hypothetical future zombie apocalypse. Such efforts include creating weapons and selling educational material informing people how to survive a zombie outbreak; while most of these are tongue-in-cheek and do not represent an authentic belief that a zombie apocalypse in the near future is likely, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have used the fictional scenario to demonstrate survival and emergency-preparedness techniques that may be useful in a \"real-world\" setting.\n\n\nThe stories usually follow a single group of survivors, caught up in the sudden rush of the crisis. The narrative generally progresses from the onset of the zombie plague, then initial attempts to seek the aid of authorities, the failure of those authorities, through to the sudden catastrophic collapse of all large-scale organization and the characters' subsequent attempts to survive on their own. Such stories are often squarely focused on the way their characters react to such an extreme catastrophe, and how their personalities are changed by the stress, often acting on more primal motivations (fear, self-preservation) than they would display in normal life.\n\nThere has been a growth in the number of zombie manga in the last decade, and in a list of \"10 Great Zombie Manga\", Anime News Network's Jason Thompson placed \"I Am a Hero\" at number 1, considering it \"probably the greatest zombie manga ever\". In second place was \"Living Corpse\" and in third, \"Biomega\", which he called \"the greatest science-fiction virus zombie manga ever\".\n\n\"\" was adapted into a live action film in 2014.\n\nArtist Jillian McDonald has made several works of video art involving zombies, and exhibited them in her 2006 show, \"Horror Make-Up,\" which debuted on 8 September 2006 at Art Moving Projects, a gallery in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.\n\nArtist Karim Charredib has dedicated his work to the zombie figure. In 2007, he made a video installation at villa Savoye called \"Them !!!\" where zombies walked in the villa like tourists.\n\nZombies are a popular theme for video games, particularly of, but not limited to, the stealth, survival horror, first-person shooter and role-playing game genres. Important horror fiction media franchises in this area include \"Resident Evil\", \"Dead Rising\", \"The House of the Dead\", \"Dead Island\", \"Left 4 Dead\", \"Dying Light\", \"State of Decay\", \"The Last of Us\" and the Zombies game modes from \"Call of Duty\" title series.\n\nPopCap Games' \"Plants vs. Zombies\", a humorous tower defense game, was an indie hit in 2009, featuring in several best-of lists at the end of that year. The massively multiplayer online role-playing game \"Urban Dead\", a free grid-based browser game where zombies and survivors fight for control of a ruined city, is one of the most popular games of its type.\n\nDayZ, a zombie-based survival horror mod for ArmA 2, was responsible for over 300,000 unit sales of its parent game within two months of its release. Over a year later, the developers of the mod created a standalone version of the same game, which currently is in early-access on Steam, and so far it has sold 3 million copies since its release in December 2013\n\nRomero would later opine that he believes that much of the 21st century obsessions with Zombies can be traced more towards video games than films, Noting that it was not until the 2009 film Zombieland that a Zombie film was able to grose more the 100 million.\n\nOutside of video games, zombies frequently appear in trading card games, such as \"\" or \"Yu-Gi-Oh! Trading Card Game\" (which even has a Zombie-Type for its \"monsters\"), as well as in role-playing games, such as \"Dungeons & Dragons\", tabletop games such as \"Zombies!!!\" and , and tabletop wargames, such as \"Warhammer Fantasy\" and \"40K\". The game \"Humans vs. Zombies\" is a zombie-themed live-action game played on college campuses.\n\nWriting for \"Scientific American\", Kyle Hill praised the 2013 game \"The Last of Us\" for the game's plausibility, which based its zombie enemies on a fictional strain of the \"Cordyceps\" fungus, which has real-world parasitic properties. Despite plausibility, to date there have been no documented cases of humans infected by \"Cordyceps\".\n\nOn 18 May 2011, the United States' Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) published a graphic novel, \"Preparedness 101: Zombie Apocalypse\" providing tips to survive a zombie invasion as a \"fun new way of teaching the importance of emergency preparedness\". The CDC goes on to summarize cultural references to a zombie apocalypse. It uses these to underscore the value of laying in water, food, medical supplies, and other necessities in preparation for any and all potential disasters, be they hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, or hordes of zombies.\n\nOn 17 October 2011, The Weather Channel in the United States published an article, \"How To Weather the Zombie Apocalypse\", that included a fictional interview with a Director of Research at the CDD, the \"Center for Disease Development\". Questions answered include \"How does the temperature affect zombies' abilities? Do they run faster in warmer temperatures? Do they freeze if it gets too cold?\"\n\nIn 2011, the US government drafted CONPLAN 8888-11,\na real plan detailing a strategy to defend against a zombie attack.\n\nMichael Jackson's music video \"Thriller\" (1983), in which he dances with a troop of zombies, has been preserved as a cultural treasure by the Library of Congress' National Film Registry. Many pop culture media have paid tribute to this video, such as a gathering of 14,000 university students dressed as zombies in Mexico City, and 1500 prisoners in orange jumpsuits recreating the zombie dance in a viral video .\n\nThe Brooklyn hip hop trio Flatbush Zombies incorporate many tropes from zombie fiction and play on the theme of a zombie apocalypse in their music. They portray themselves as \"living dead\", describing their use of psychedelics such as LSD and psilocybin mushrooms as having caused them to experience ego death and rebirth.\n\nIn the 1990s, zombie fiction emerged as a distinct literary subgenre, with the publication of \"Book of the Dead\" (1990) and its follow-up \"Still Dead: Book of the Dead 2\" (1992), both edited by horror authors John Skipp and Craig Spector. Featuring Romero-inspired stories from the likes of Stephen King, the \"Book of the Dead\" compilations are regarded as influential in the horror genre and perhaps the first true \"zombie literature\". Horror novelist Stephen King has written about zombies including his short story \"Home Delivery\" (1990) and his novel \"Cell\" (2006) concerning a struggling young artist on a trek from Boston to Maine in hopes of saving his family from a possible worldwide outbreak of zombie-like maniacs.\n\nMax Brooks's novel \"World War Z\" (2006) became a New York Times bestseller. Brooks had previously authored \"The Zombie Survival Guide\" (2003), a zombie-themed parody of pop-fiction survival guides published in 2003. Brooks has said that zombies are so popular because \"Other monsters may threaten individual humans, but the living dead threaten the entire human race... Zombies are slate wipers.\" Seth Grahame-Smith's mashup novel \"Pride and Prejudice and Zombies\" (2009) combines the full text of Jane Austen's \"Pride and Prejudice\" (1813) with a story about a zombie epidemic within the novel's British Regency period setting. In 2009, Katy Hershbereger of St. Martin's Press stated \"In the world of traditional horror, nothing is more popular right now than zombies... The living dead are here to stay.\" \nThe zombie also appears as a metaphor in protest songs, symbolizing mindless adherence to authority, particularly in law enforcement and the armed forces. Well-known examples include Fela Kuti's 1976 album \"Zombie\", and The Cranberries' 1994 single \"Zombie\".\n\nOrganized zombie walks have been staged, either as performance art or as part of protests that parody political extremism or apathy.\n\nA variation of the zombie walk is the zombie run. Here participants do a 5k run wearing a belt with several flag \"lives\". If the chasing zombies capture all of the flags the runner becomes \"infected\". If he or she reaches the finish line—which may involve wide detours—ahead of the zombies the participant is a \"survivor\". In either case an appropriate participation medal is awarded.\n\nResearchers have used theoretical zombie infections to test epidemiology modeling. One study found that all humans end up turned or dead. This is because the main epidemiological risk of zombies, besides the difficulties of neutralizing them, is that their population just keeps increasing; generations of humans merely \"surviving\" still have a tendency to feed zombie populations, resulting in gross outnumbering. The researchers explain that their methods of modelling may be applicable to the spread of political views or diseases with dormant infection.\n\nAdam Chodorow of the Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law at Arizona State University investigated the estate and income tax implications of a zombie apocalypse under United States federal and state tax codes. Neuroscientists Bradley Voytek and Timothy Verstynen have built a side career in extrapolating how ideas in neuroscience would theoretically apply to zombie brains. Their work has been featured in \"Forbes\", \"New York Magazine\", and other publications.\n\n\n"}
