{"id": "15185011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15185011", "title": "500 Fifth Avenue", "text": "500 Fifth Avenue\n\n500 Fifth Avenue, located between West 42nd and 43rd Streets in Midtown Manhattan, New York City, is a 60-floor, 697-foot (213 m), 659,132 sq ft office tower built from 1929 to 1931 and designed by the firm of Shreve, Lamb & Harmon in the Art Deco style. Constructed for Walter J. Salmon, Sr., it is adjacent to Bryant Park and the Salmon Tower Building, also built for Salmon.\n\nIt was the original transmitter site for CBS Radio's New York City FM station (W67NY, later called WCBS-FM) in 1941.\n\nThe building was designated a New York City Landmark in 2010.\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "20707517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20707517", "title": "Andrea Illy", "text": "Andrea Illy\n\nAndrea Illy (born 2 September 1964, Trieste) is an Italian businessman. He is the Chairman of illycaffè S.p.A., a family coffee business founded in Trieste in 1933. He is Chairman of Altagamma since 2013.\n\nIlly was born on 2 September 1964 in Trieste, Italy and is the son of Ernesto Illy. He started his studies in Switzerland and graduated in Chemistry at the University of Trieste. He subsequently took a Master Executive at SDA Bocconi, Milan, attended the Advanced Management program at Harvard Business School, and the Executive Program at Singularity University, Silicon Valley. In 2003, he joined the Advisory Board of SDA Bocconi. Andrea Illy is married and has three daughters.\n\nIn 1990, he joined the family business as a supervisor of the quality control department. Inspired by his previous experience in Japan, Andrea Illy started the Total Quality Program, which established standards for the company and coffee industry.\n\nIn 1994 he was appointed CEO of illycaffè S.p.A. and has held that position until 2016. He is Chairman of the company since 2005. At illycaffè, he developed several projects:\n\n\nAndrea Illy contributed to Expo Milan 2015 curating the Coffee Cluster, a 43,000-square foot pavilion hosting 10 coffee-producing countries, while illycaffè has been Official Coffee Partner of the Universal Exhibition.\n\nIn 1996, Andrea Illy was chosen as \"Marketing Superstar\" by the American magazine \"Advertising Age\". In 1999, he undertook the role of president of A.S.I.C. (Association International du Café Scientifique - Paris), while today he is Honorary President.\nBetween 2003 and 2006 he has been member of the Advisory Board of the SDA Bocconi School of Management.\n\nIn 2004, he was awarded the title of \"Imprenditore dell'Anno\" () by Ernst & Young Italia.\n\nIn 2012, he co-founded the LH Forum reflection group, the Movement for the positive economy created by Jacques Attali.\nFrom 2012 until March 2016, he was Chairman of the Promotion and Market Development Committee of the International Coffee Organization (ICO).\nIn 2012 and 2013 he was Board member and President of the Sustainability Committee of the coffee and tea leading Dutch multinational company D.E Master Blenders 1753.\n\nSince 2013, he is part of the Board of Governors of the Bank of Italy for the seat of Trieste.\n\nIn April 2013, he was elected Chairman of Fondazione Altagamma gathering High-End Italian Cultural and Creative Companies, of which he was a member of the Board of Directors since 1999 and, as a representative of the food industry, vice-president since 2007. In December 2015 he was reconfirmed as Chairman for the 2016-2018 period.\n\nHe was named Cavaliere del Lavoro by the President of the Italian Republic in 2018.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22616211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22616211", "title": "Banque Française Commerciale Océan Indien", "text": "Banque Française Commerciale Océan Indien\n\nBanque Française Commerciale Océan Indien (BFCOI) is a French bank that since 2003 has been jointly owned by Mauritius Commercial Bank and Société Générale. It has its headquarters in Saint Denis, Réunion. It has more than 360 employees and more than 80 000 clients in its operations in Réunion (13 branches), Mayotte (three branches), and Paris (one branch), which primarily engages in private banking.\n\nIn 1925, Banque de Paris et des Pays-Bas, Banque de l'Indochine, Banque Lazard and the Chinese government established the Banque Franco-Chinoise pour le Commerce et l’Industrie (BFCCI) to take over the assets of the Banque Industrielle de Chine (est. 1913). The Bank established offices in Peking, Shanghai and Teinstsin. It also established offices in North Vietnam (Hanoi and Haiphong), in Central Vietnam (Vinh, Huë, Tourane (Da Nang) and Qui Nhơn), South Vietnam (Saigon), and Cambodia (Phnom Penh). By 1939, only the Hanoi, Saigon and Phnom Penh branches remained in French Indochina. At the same time, the bank had three offices in France (Paris, Lyon and Marseille).\n\nIn 1951, concerned about its geographical concentration in the high-risk region of Indochina, BFCCI sought to diversify by establishing branches in Madagascar. After the French defeat in 1954 at Diên Biên Phu, BFCCI closed its offices in North Vietnam. However, the bank started to expand in South Vietnam and Cambodia. The next year, BFCCI finally left China, its branches having been inoperative for some time.\n\nIn 1960, the Banque de l'Indochine purchase the shares in BFCCI that Banque de Paris et des Pays-Bas and Banque Lazard had held. In 1963, Prince Sihanouk nationalized the banking sector in Cambodia, though BFCCI was allowed to retain a representative office. (In 1975, during the terror launched by the Khmer Rouge, the representative — an ethnic Chinese — and his family all disappeared.) In 1964, BFCCI changed its name to Banque Française pour le Commerce. The next year, the government of South Vietnam wished to create a domestic bank sector. BFC participated in the creation of Banque pour le Commerce, l'Industrie et l'Agriculture (BCIA) — Nong Cong Thuong Ngan Hang in Vietnamese — under the control of a young South Vietnamese seconded from BFC.\n\nA change in French law in 1967 liberalized branching, enabling BFC to increase the number of its branches in France. The next year, BFC changed its name to Banque Française Commerciale.\n\nPolitical turmoil cost BFC several operations in 1975. The operations in Madagascar had been satisfactory until political turmoil commenced in 1972. Then in 1975, the Malagasy Republic nationalized its branches there and transferred them to the Banque Financiere et Commerciale Malagache. Also, the fall of Saigon reduced the BFC Group in Vietnam to inactivity. The authorities liquidated the bank and seized its assets; the expatriate staff returned to France.\n\nBFC decided to transfer its operations in the Indian Ocean and in 1976, established a branch in Réunion. BFC also established operations in Mayotte at the request of the French Government after the island lost all banking services when it split from the Comoros and voted to stay linked to France. BFC also acquired Banque Antillaise and opened a branch in French Guiana. Two years later, BFCOI opened a branch in the Seychelles. The next year, BFC absorbed Banque Antillaise, together with its branches in French Guiana (2), Guadeloupe (7), and Martinique (3), and established a branch in Dominica.\n\nIn 1984, BFC restructured itself as a holding company. It established three legally and operationally distinct companies: Banque Française Commerciale en France Métropolitaine (BFC) to hold the branches in France, Banque Française Commerciale Océan Indien (BFCOI) to hold the branches in Reunion, Mayotte and the Seychelles, and Banque Française Commerciale Antilles-Guyane (BFCAG) to take over the branches in French Guiana and the Antilles. Banque Indosuez owned the entire share capital of all three entities. The next year, Compagnie Lyonnaise de Financement Immobiliere acquired BFC's branches in France.\n\nBanque Indosuez sold a majority position (66.66%) in BFCOI to Mauritius Commercial Bank (MCB) in 1996; Banque Indosuez retained 22.22%. The next year, BFCOI opened a branch in Paris. In 1997, BFCOI opened a representative office in Mozambique.\n\nIn 2000, MCB acquired the minority stake Crédit Agricole Indosuez held in BFCOI, increasing its stake to 88.88%. This followed the takeover of Banque Indosuez by the Crédit Agricole Group, which itself had operations in both Reunion and Mayotte in direct competition with BFCOI. BFCOI became the representative of Banque Fédérale Mutualiste in the Indian Ocean region.\n\nIn early 2003, the Bank finalized an agreement with Société Générale, establishing joint (50:50) ownership of BFCOI. However, BFCOI's Seychelles operations fell outside the scope of the agreement. Instead, MCB incorporated a new fully owned subsidiary, The Mauritius Commercial Bank (Seychelles), trading under the name of MCB Seychelles, to take over the assets and liabilities of the Seychelles-based banking network of BFCOI.\n\n"}
{"id": "43999623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43999623", "title": "Bottleneck (production)", "text": "Bottleneck (production)\n\nIn production and project management, a bottleneck is one process in a chain of processes, such that its limited capacity reduces the capacity of the whole chain. The result of having a bottleneck are stalls in production, supply overstock, pressure from customers and low employee morale. There are both short and long-term bottlenecks. Short-term bottlenecks are temporary and are not normally a significant problem. An example of a short-term bottleneck would be a skilled employee taking a few days off. Long-term bottlenecks occur all the time and can cumulatively significantly slow down production. An example of a long-term bottleneck is when a machine is not efficient enough and as a result has a long queue.\n\nAn example is the lack of smelter and refinery supply which cause bottlenecks upstream.\n\nAnother example is in a surface-mount technology board assembly line with several pieces of equipment aligned. Usually the common sense is driven to set up and shift the bottleneck element towards the end of the process, inducing the better and faster machines to always keep the printed circuit board (PCB) supply flowing up, never allowing the slower ones to fully stop, a fact that would be heeded as a deleterious and significant overall drawback on the process.\n\nAlmost every system has a bottleneck, even if it is a minor one, if every system was running at full capacity, at least one machine would be accumulating processes. Identifying bottlenecks is critical for improving efficiency in the production line because it allows you to determine the area where accumulation occurs. The machine or process that accumulates the longest queue is usually a bottleneck, however this isn't always the case. Bottlenecks can be found through: identifying the areas where accumulation occurs, evaluating the throughput, assessing whether each machine is being used at full capacity and finding the machine with the high wait time.\n\nWhen input comes in faster than the speed of the process, accumulation starts to occur. This means that the machine either does not have enough capacity, is not being fully utilized (inefficient in use) or has an under-qualified operator. This method is not effective at identifying bottlenecks where the queues are at several process steps, as there are multiple processes with accumulation.\n\nSince the production line is directly linked to the output of the machines, it allows for the identifying of the main bottleneck in the manufacturing process. In changing each machines throughput, it will be possible to assess which machine affects the overall output the most, and hence determine the bottleneck in the chain of processes.\n\nBy using the utilization percentage of each production unit, it is possible to determine the machine which uses the highest percentage of its capacity. This machine is bottlenecking the other machines by 'forcing' them to operate at a lower capacity. However, if all machines in the chain of processes are running at a similar capacity level, increasing the capacity of the lowest machine will not create a significant improvement to the total output.\n\nIn the case where several production units are already running at full capacity, tracking the down time of machines will allow you to identify which machine is being bottlenecked. Usually the machine prior the machine with the highest wait or down time in the chain of processes is a bottleneck. The result of this is a machine being under utilized.\nA fishbone diagram is a graphical means for finding possible problems in a chain of processes. By collecting the different data related to the problem, and inputting them into the diagram, it becomes easier to analyze the data in the order it used and hence determine the root of the problem. This is commonly used to find the bottleneck in a chain of processes due to being able to pinpoint the machine precisely responsible for the delay in production.\n\nThe consequences of having bottlenecks in production are possible stalls in production, supply overstock, fall in employee morale and loss of customers. Bottlenecks can result in the overloading of a machine. Overloading a machine can lead to the machinery getting damaged or worn out and result of this would be potential stretches of downtime in the long term.\n\nA stall in production would be the result of one machine slowing down the entire chain of processes and consistently leaving the other machines unable to continue while it accumulates a large queue. This inefficiency significantly slows down production as many resources such as time, people and machines are being paid to wait.\n\nIn the event of accumulation in the long-term, the capacity at which the bottlenecked machine is running could be so slow that the accumulated resources that are in the queue need to be stored. The cost of storing resources is significant as it takes resources to transport the materials back and forth as well as requiring space, another potential cost.\n\nThe result of bottlenecks could require more work from employees as well as longer hours. In addition, there's the factor of stress and frustration with the bottlenecked machine and its operator. This could result in loss of efficiency as employees may not be very motivated to work.\n\nOnce the bottleneck has been identified, assessing the degree of the bottleneck is crucial for determining how to manage the bottleneck. The bottleneck could be either minor or severe. Minor bottlenecks may not need to be immediately addressed, whereas severe bottlenecks should be dealt with immediately. There are several ways to eliminate bottlenecks. Some means of doing so are: Adding resources to the bottleneck operation (more people), minimising downtime, eliminate non-value activities, investing in more machinery which completes the same action and optimising the bottlenecks operation. Other sources similarly suggest that once the bottleneck has been identified it is best to ensure it is well maintained, to provide a constant buffer stock upstream of the bottleneck, to reduce time wasted in set ups and changeovers and to train more operators for the bottlenecked machines. These are further explained below. Having production scheduling to optimise efficiency is another means of effectively utilising the bottlenecked machine. This minimises the possibility for the situation where the production quota is not met. Scheduling also reduces the number of situations where production is halted due to a lack of personnel, due to increased organisation and greater planned out production. It also allows for the full advantage of the time available to be taken as pockets of time can be found to keep the machine running for as many hours as possible in a week.\n\nIncreasing the number of operators or increasing the number of staff can be beneficial for multiple reasons. Increasing the number of operators can increase efficiency as they can all work different timed shifts and hence the bottlenecked machine can run for longer hours. In addition, if one worker is sick, unable to work or quits, there will always be someone available to replace him. Increasing the number of employees can be beneficial to increasing efficiency. This is because they can be reassigned to work on parts of the bottlenecked machines operations which can be broken down into smaller activities and reassigned to reduce the work load of the machine hence reducing the accumulation. By reassigning other work to different machines, the less accumulation or delay the bottlenecked machine has and hence significantly speeds up production as it also reduces the wait time of the machines farther along the chain of processes to increase productivity.\n\nTo compensate for being the weakest link in the chain of processes, the bottleneck machine will have to run for longer periods of time. Changeover and setup time should be minimised to allow the machines to run for slightly longer, reducing the impact of the bottleneck. Minimising downtime by having the bottlenecked machines run from earlier until later is a common strategy for working around the problem, however this does increase the likelihood for the machine to be overloaded and need regular maintenance.\n\nIn removing all non-value activities, you reduce the amount of redundant tasks performed by the bottlenecked machine and hence maximize efficiency. Removing the waste operations results in a shorter cycle time hence allowing the machine to complete each process in less time.\n\nIn order to optimise the usage of the machine, the machine should be kept running for as long as possible and hence should never have to wait for materials or stock to increase productivity. This can be achieved by putting a buffer stock in place so that the machine always has some task it can be doing. The down side to that inventory space will be needed to store the buffer for when the machine before it in the chain of processes is working.\n\nPreventing bottlenecks would be ideal to avoid having to manage and resolve them in the future. There are ways to work around them when planning the production environment. Giving employees free rein over minor decision making will allow them to make the decision they feel is most efficient, and being operators of the machine, their experience will allow them to become specialised in the use of the machine over time. Cross-training employees will increase adaptability in the production line and hence reduce potential downtime in the future. Hiring high performance employees will reduce the possibility for bottlenecks to be formed by underperforming employees who are inefficient at using their assigned machinery. Planning for a higher potential output when designing the production environment is crucial in the long run for occurrences of larger orders when there is need to run all the machinery. Having all the machinery running at full capacity is not always ideal due to situations where malfunctions occur and production is halted. Having inspiring leaders who having a strong understanding in how to keep production smooth will allow greater control of all the different processes in the chain of production. Taking into account the layout of the different processes can also increase efficiency as it minimises delay caused in the transportation stage. The use of a proper layout can reduce the overhead of machines and can reduce material handling time.\n\nEstablishment of standardized exchanged protocols can minimise the potential for future bottlenecks to occur through minimising down time. This increases efficiency by reducing any potential confusion between different sectors and hence reduces the possibility for delays of the arrival of raw materials.\n\nA static bottleneck is where no random or unexpected fluctuations occur which would happen during either a changeover or a breakdown of the system. A static system does not change in behavior and hence the system stays constant. Finding a bottleneck in a static system is very simple, it is simply the machine or process with the longest constant cycle time. Static systems do not exist in reality as no matter what, there will always be a slight fluctuation in cycle time. This is because there is no way to prevent any fluctuation from occurring to slow the system down. An example of this could be a power shortage or a natural disaster. The behavior of any system is liable to any random event and hence all systems are dynamic. Dynamic systems can be divided into two main groups: Stable and unstable. The significant difference in the context of dynamic systems, is that the bottlenecks can shift. The speed of which a bottleneck shifts depending on the buffer between the processes. Bottlenecks shift when its location of work center in the production area changes, and this leads to control problems due to the significant delay in output. Shifting bottlenecks are a result of inevitable unexpected events for which no planning is possible.\n\nThe steps suggested to avoid or prevent shifting bottlenecks are:\n\nStep 1) Re-evaluate the maximum load of every machine, process or work center when accepting a new order.\n\nStep 2) Find the bottleneck in the system and identify its surplus capacity.\n\nStep 3) Fill the bottlenecks surplus capacity.\n\nStep 4) Find out the release time of the material as a result of the new bottlenecks scheduling.\n\nThrough following these steps, the order production will be completed in the shortest possible time frame.\n\n"}
{"id": "11040097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11040097", "title": "Calo tester", "text": "Calo tester\n\nThe Calo tester, also known as a ball craterer or coating thickness tester, is a quick, simple and inexpensive piece of equipment used to measure the thickness of coatings. Coatings with thicknesses typically between 0.1 to 50 micrometres, such as Physical Vapor Deposition (PVD) coatings or Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD) coatings, are used in many industries to improve the surface properties of tools and components. \nThe Calo tester is also used to measure the amount of coating wear after a wear test carried out using a Pin-on-Disc Tester.\n\nThe Calo tester consists of a holder for the surface to be tested and a steel sphere of known diameter that is rotated against the surface by a rotating shaft connected to a motor whilst diamond paste is applied to the contact area. The sphere is rotated for a short period of time (less than 20 seconds for a 0.1 to 5 micrometre thickness) but due to the abrasive nature of the diamond paste this is sufficient time to wear a crater through thin coatings.\n\nAn optical microscope is used to take two measurements across the crater after the Calo test and the coating thickness is calculated using a simple geometrical equation. \n\nformula_1\n\nWhere\nt = coating thickness,\nd = diameter of the sphere \nx = difference between the radius of the crater and radius of the part of the crater at the bottom of the coating\nx+y = diameter of the crater\n"}
{"id": "12575841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12575841", "title": "Capital Top 300 wealthiest men in Romania", "text": "Capital Top 300 wealthiest men in Romania\n\nThis is a list of Romania's richest people (Romanian: \"cei mai bogați români\") for the year 2016. The list is published yearly by the newspaper Capital. The full list is published as a book and only the top 10 are published online.\n\n"}
{"id": "41720801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41720801", "title": "Chicago Options Associates", "text": "Chicago Options Associates\n\nChicago Options Associates (COA) is a finance company in Chicago, Illinois which specializes in trading options and futures contracts. It was founded in 1987 by Oliver R. W. Pergams and Michael E. Davis. In 1994 Davis was its chief executive officer, hiring then-graduate student Jimmy Wales as research director; Wales served in this position until 1998.\n\nThe company and Davis were the subject of litigation resulting from a 2007 Illinois Supreme Court decision. In \"Dowling v. Chicago Options Associates\", plaintiff Brian Dowling successfully sued the company (and Davis), winning a judgement of US$817,830.45 from both defendants. Davis tried to shield his assets by transferring funds to a law firm, DLA Piper, which had assisted him in buying a home in Florida. During this representation, Davis paid a retainer of $100,000 to DLA Piper; Dowling maintained that he was owed this money. Although the circuit and appellate courts agreed with Dowling, the Illinois Supreme Court reversed and found with DLA Piper. The Illinois State Bar Association and Chicago Bar Association filed \"amicus curiae\" briefs in the case, favoring the law firm's position. This decision by the Illinois Supreme Court was the first time the concept of \"advance payment retainer\" was recognized in the state, and the court codified its ruling into a 2009 regulation affecting legal practice in Illinois.\n\nChicago Options Associates is a finance company incorporated in Chicago, Illinois which specializes in trading options and futures contracts. It was founded in 1987 by Michael E. Davis (a 1983 MBA graduate from the University of Chicago) and Oliver R. W. Pergams, who received a bachelor's degree from that school in 1981. The company originally had offices in Chicago and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The chief executive officer of Chicago Options Associates in 1994 was Michael Davis, and the company had established a successful reputation in Chicago.\n\nDavis hired Indiana University economics Ph.D. graduate student Jimmy Wales to analyze the company's pricing-model strategy; Wales left his graduate program to join the company as research director, serving in that capacity from 1994 through 1998. He was adept at determining future movements of foreign currencies and interest rates, and Davis mentored Wales in more-aggressive financial trading.\n\nDavis joined Wales and Tim Shell in 1996 to form the Internet company, Bomis. In 2003, when Wales decided to form a non-profit organization to manage the website Wikipedia, Davis, Shell and Wales formed the initial three-member Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees.\n\nIn 2013, Chicago Options Associates was located on LaSalle Street in Chicago.\n\nIn 2007, the company was the subject of a decision in a lawsuit before the Illinois Supreme Court when a creditor argued that it was owed monies from the defendants after judgments were obtained against them. The court ruled against the creditor and in favor of the law firm, stating that the retainer owed to the firm took precedence. In \"Dowling v Chicago Options Associates, Inc\", the Illinois Supreme Court ruled that preemptive retainers used by attorneys were acceptable arrangements with clients.\n\nThe original case was between plaintiff Brian Dowling and defendants Chicago Options Associates and Michael E. Davis, in which Dowling won a judgement of $817,830.45 from the defendants. After the court entered its judgement against him, Davis then tried to shield his assets from the plaintiff using his attorney-client relationship with the law firm of DLA Piper to assist him in buying a home in Florida. As part of this arrangement, Davis transferred funds into a trust account controlled by DLA Piper. At that time, as stated in the contract between DLA Piper and Davis, the law firm was allocated $100,000 of those funds as its retainer; the funds were used to pay day-to-day company expenses.\n\nWhen Dowling's attorneys learned about the retainer to DLA Piper they asked the court to order the return of the retainer to the plaintiff, and the circuit court ruled in favor of Dowling. On appeal, the decision was upheld. The Illinois Supreme Court reversed the circuit-court decision, ruling that the retainer was the property of DLA Piper and not Dowling.\n\nBoth the Illinois State Bar Association and Chicago Bar Association filed \"amicus curiae\" briefs in the case favoring the law firm's position. The case dealt with the concept of an advance payment retainer, a fee given to an attorney for later services to a client. An advance payment retainer became part of an attorney's assets as soon as it was paid, regardless of subsequent events. More common types of retainer defined by the court included the classic retainer (also known as a true retainer) and the security retainer. A classic retainer was described by the court as one used in an attorney-client relationship for a set length of time or a particular purpose. A security retainer referred to a deposit kept in a trust account by the attorney, distinct from their own assets. The case was the first recognition of advance payment retainers in Illinois.\n\nThe case became a parameter for defining retainers in Illinois. The \"Illinois Bar Journal\" observed in 2009, \"The starting point for any discussion of getting paid for work in the private practice of law is retainer fees. In Dowling v Chicago Options Associates, Inc ... the supreme court identified three types of lawyer retainer fees that are permissible in this state ...\" and referred to the legal descriptions as \"Dowling fee classifications\".\n\nOn July 1, 2009, the Illinois Supreme Court codified the definitions set forth in the case as a rule applicable to the practice of law in the state; known as Rule 1.15(c), it came into practice on January 1, 2010. The \"Illinois Bar Journal\" noted, \"Paragraph (c) of the rule reflects the recent supreme court decision in Dowling v Chicago Options Associates, Inc (4) and describes in detail the so-called advance payment retainer recognized in Dowling.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17066976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17066976", "title": "Conversational Capital", "text": "Conversational Capital\n\nConversational Capital: How to Create Stuff People Love to Talk About is a book about engineering word-of-mouth into brand experiences. Contrary to the conventional theories of mass marketing literature, which teach that one must scream something ten times to be heard once, the authors teach that because we are all social storytellers, a product experience that is worthy of telling as one's own authentic story creates enormous brand capital in the form of meaningful and influential conversations.\n\nDeveloped by a trio of international brand architects, they share the insights behind their creative and strategic leadership for word-of-mouth success stories including Adidas, Cirque du Soleil, Red Bull & MGM Grand.\n\nBased on their experiences with some of the world's recognized generators of word-of-mouth, the authors behind Conversational Capital began to realize that experiences had residual value—value that extended further than mere memories but instead resided in the realm of identity-shaping and storytelling. That is to say, when an experience was sufficiently powerful or transformative for an individual, they felt compelled to make the experience part of their own life story, and thereby propagate the story of the experience as part of their own (and now more exciting) identity. With this in mind, Bertrand Cesvet, Tony Babinski and Eric Alper began to deconstruct the antecedents to word-of-mouth. Invariably, they found that the elements that gave rise to the conversations of consumers consisted of eight possible drivers. Critically, these elements fed into doing two things for the experience in question: 1) making it meaningful and 2) making it intense.\n\nThe authors of Conversational Capital share these eight key ingredients to embedding the makings of word-of-mouth into every consumer encounter with brands. They term these elements the Eight Engines of Conversational Capital.\n\n1. Myths are the narratives that become part of the very fabric of consumption because they provide important clues as to fundamental meaning of that act.\n\n2. Rituals are an essential part of how human beings create and formalize meaning. The presence of ritual marks out an experience as deeper in meaning - a phenomenon that is true for consumer experiences, as well.\n\n3. Exclusive Product Offering (E.P.O.) is about allowing consumers to create an experience that asserts and actualizes their individuality; to, in a world of seven billion people, feel and be unique.\n\n4. Relevant Sensorial Oddity (R.S.O.) is about challenging our senses with something extraordinary, marking an experience as unique.\n\n5. Icons are signs and symbols that clearly demarcate a consumption experience from any other.\n\n6. Tribalism is about the power of a brand experience to inspire the association of like-minded people.\n\n7. Endorsement is not about celebrity — it's about how the meaning and intensity of a brand experience naturally lead to credible people organically endorsing it.\n\n8. Continuity is a strong harbinger of reputation, a fact that rests on the unity between what you promise, what people expect and what you deliver.\n\nThe authors also recognize that Conversation Capital is nothing without conversational liquidity—the ability to share the stories as broadly as possible, and perhaps for this reason they frequently reference and recognize the Open Source movement and its way of creating connected communities that transcend geographic and other boundaries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "101743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101743", "title": "Double-entry bookkeeping system", "text": "Double-entry bookkeeping system\n\nDouble-entry bookkeeping, in accounting, is a system of bookkeeping so named because every entry to an account requires a corresponding and opposite entry to a different account. The double entry has two equal and corresponding sides known as debit and credit. The left-hand side is debit and right-hand side is credit. For instance, recording a sale of $100 might require two entries: a debit of $100 to an account named \"Cash\" and a credit of $100 to an account named \"Revenue.\"\n\nThe accounting equation\n\nformula_1\n\nis an error detection tool; if at any point the sum of debits for all accounts does not equal the corresponding sum of credits for all accounts, an error has occurred. However, satisfying the equation does not guarantee that there are no errors; the ledger may still \"balance\" even if the wrong ledger accounts have been debited or credited.\n\nDouble-entry bookkeeping was pioneered in the Jewish community of the early-medieval Middle East. Jewish bankers in Old Cairo, for example, used a double-entry bookkeeping system which predated the known usage of such a form in Italy, and whose records remain from the 11th century AD. It has been hypothesized that Italian merchants likely learned the method from their interaction with medieval Jewish merchants from the Middle East, however this question remains an area for further research. The oldest European record of a complete double-entry system is the \"Messari\" (Italian: Treasurer's) accounts of the Republic of Genoa in 1340. The \"Messari\" accounts contain debits and credits journalised in a bilateral form, and include balances carried forward from the preceding year, and therefore enjoy general recognition as a double-entry system. By the end of the 15th century, the bankers and merchants of Florence, Genoa, Venice and Lübeck used this system widely.\n\nHowever, the double-entry accounting method was said to be developed independently earlier in Korea during the Goryeo dynasty (918–1392) when Kaesong was a center of trade and industry at that time. The \"Four-element bookkeeping system\" was said to be originated in the 11th or 12th century.\n\nThe earliest extant accounting records that follow the modern double-entry system in Europe come from Amatino Manucci, a Florentine merchant at the end of the 13th century. Manucci was employed by the Farolfi firm and the firm's ledger of 1299-1300 evidences full double-entry bookkeeping. Giovannino Farolfi & Company, a firm of Florentine merchants headquartered in Nîmes, acted as moneylenders to the Archbishop of Arles, their most important customer. Some sources suggest that Giovanni di Bicci de' Medici introduced this method for the Medici bank in the 14th century.\n\nRagusan economist Benedetto Cotrugli's 1458 treatise \"Della mercatura e del mercante perfetto\" contained the earliest known description of a double-entry bookkeeping system, but his manuscript was not officially published until 1573.\n\nLuca Pacioli, a Franciscan friar and collaborator of Leonardo da Vinci, first codified the system in his mathematics textbook \"Summa de arithmetica, geometria, proportioni et proportionalità\" published in Venice in 1494. Pacioli is often called the \"father of accounting\" because he was the first to publish a detailed description of the double-entry system, thus enabling others to study and use it.\n\nIn pre-modern Europe, double-entry bookkeeping had theological and cosmological connotations, recalling \"both the scales of justice and the symmetry of God's world\".\n\nIn the double-entry accounting system, at least two accounting entries are required to record each financial transaction. These entries may occur in asset, liability, equity, expense, or revenue accounts. Recording of a debit amount to one or more accounts and an equal credit amount to one or more accounts results in total debits being equal to total credits for all accounts in the general ledger. If the accounting entries are recorded without error, the aggregate balance of all accounts having \"Debit\" balances will be equal to the aggregate balance of all accounts having \"Credit\" balances. Accounting entries that debit and credit related accounts typically include the same date and identifying code in both accounts, so that in case of error, each debit and credit can be traced back to a journal and transaction source document, thus preserving an audit trail. The accounting entries are recorded in the \"Books of Accounts\". Regardless of which accounts and how many are impacted by a given transaction, the fundamental accounting equation of \"assets equal liabilities plus capital\" will hold.\n\nThere are two different ways to memorize the effects of debits and credits on accounts in the double entry system of bookkeeping. They are the Traditional Approach and the Accounting Equation Approach. Irrespective of the approach used, the effect on the books of accounts remains the same, with two aspects (debit and credit) in each of the transactions.\n\nFollowing the Traditional Approach (also called the British Approach) accounts are classified as real, personal, and nominal accounts. Real accounts are accounts relating to assets and liabilities including the capital account of the owners. Personal accounts are accounts relating to persons or organisations with whom the business has transactions and will mainly consist of accounts of debtors and creditors. Nominal accounts are revenue, expenses, gains, and losses. Transactions are entered in the books of accounts by applying the following golden rules of accounting:\n\nThis approach is also called the American approach. Under this approach transactions are recorded based on the accounting equation, i.e., Assets = Liabilities + Capital. The accounting equation is a statement of equality between the debits and the credits. The rules of debit and credit depend on the nature of an account. For the purpose of the accounting equation approach, all the accounts are classified into the following five types: assets, liabilities, income/revenues, expenses, or capital gains/losses.\n\nIf there is an increase or decrease in a set of accounts, there will be equal decrease or increase in another set of accounts. Accordingly, the following rules of debit and credit hold for the various categories of accounts:\nThese five rules help learning about accounting entries and also are comparable with traditional (British) accounting rules.\n\nEach financial transaction is recorded in at least two different nominal ledger accounts within the financial accounting system, so that the total debits equals the total credits in the general ledger, i.e. the accounts balance. This is a partial check that each and every transaction has been correctly recorded. The transaction is recorded as a \"debit entry\" (Dr) in one account, and a \"credit entry\" (Cr) in a second account. The debit entry will be recorded on the debit side (left-hand side) of a general ledger account, and the credit entry will be recorded on the credit side (right-hand side) of a general ledger account. If the total of the entries on the debit side of one account is greater than the total on the credit side of the same nominal account, that account is said to have a debit balance.\n\nDouble entry is used only in nominal ledgers. It is not used in daybooks (journals), which normally do not form part of the nominal ledger system. The information from the daybooks will be used in the nominal ledger and it is the nominal ledgers that will ensure the integrity of the resulting financial information created from the daybooks (provided that the information recorded in the daybooks is correct).\n\nThe reason for this is to limit the number of entries in the nominal ledger: entries in the daybooks can be totalled before they are entered in the nominal ledger. If there are only a relatively small number of transactions it may be simpler instead to treat the daybooks as an integral part of the nominal ledger and thus of the double-entry system.\n\nHowever, as can be seen from the examples of daybooks shown below, it is still necessary to check, within each daybook, that the postings from the daybook balance.\n\nThe double entry system uses nominal ledger accounts. From these nominal ledger accounts a trial balance can be created. The trial balance lists all the nominal ledger account balances. The list is split into two columns, with debit balances placed in the left hand column and credit balances placed in the right hand column. Another column will contain the name of the nominal ledger account describing what each value is for. The total of the debit column must equal the total of the credit column.\n\nDouble-entry bookkeeping is governed by the accounting equation. If revenue equals expenses, the following (basic) equation must be true:\n\nFor the accounts to remain in balance, a change in one account must be matched with a change in another account. These changes are made by debits and credits to the accounts. Note that the usage of these terms in accounting is not identical to their everyday usage. Whether one uses a debit or credit to increase or decrease an account depends on the normal balance of the account. Assets, Expenses, and Drawings accounts (on the left side of the equation) have a normal balance of \"debit\". Liability, Revenue, and Capital accounts (on the right side of the equation) have a normal balance of \"credit\". On a general ledger, debits are recorded on the left side and credits on the right side for each account. Since the accounts must always balance, for each transaction there will be a debit made to one or several accounts and a credit made to one or several accounts. The sum of all debits made in each day's transactions must equal the sum of all credits in those transactions. After a series of transactions, therefore, the sum of all the accounts with a debit balance will equal the sum of all the accounts with a credit balance.\n\nDebits and credits are numbers recorded as follows:\n\nThe mnemonic DEADCLIC is used to help remember the effect of debit or credit transactions on the relevant accounts. DEAD: Debit to increase Expense, Asset and Drawing accounts and CLIC: Credit to increase Liability, Income and Capital accounts.\n\nThe account types are related as follows:\ncurrent equity = sum of equity changes across time (increases on the left side are debits, and increases on the right side are credits, and vice versa for decreases)\ncurrent equity = Assets - Liabilities\nsum of equity changes across time = owner's investment (Capital above) + Revenues - Expenses\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26409530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26409530", "title": "Emilio Lavazza", "text": "Emilio Lavazza\n\nEmilio Lavazza (1932 – 2010) was an Italian businessman. Known as, \"Mr. Espresso,\" he shaped the way how many Italians drink their coffee and dedicated half of his lifetime to provide quality coffee globally. Lavazza served as the Chief and President of the Lavazza company. He served as President of Lavazza from 1979 until 2008.Throughout his lifetime, he had received much recognition such as, Honorary President prior to retiring his position in the Lavazza company. In 2010, Lavazza died due to a severe heart attack in Turin, Italy. The Lavazza company, today, is the sixth biggest coffee roaster with mustering over $1.1billion euros in sales. The company sells coffee in more than 90 countries after Emilio's reign as head of Lavazza.\n\nEmilio Lavazza was born on August 7, 1932 in Turin, Italy. Lavazza was married to Maria Teresa, who is a socialist and a humanitarian. She was also the captain of the Italian National Team, known as the \"Second Blue Team.\" Lavazza and Teresa have two children: Joseph (son), and Francesca (daughter). According to Lavazza's spokesperson, he was described as having a reserved-calm introverted personality. Despite having this reserved personality, he was also a multi-dimensional person who enjoyed various activities: playing golf, fishing, reading murder mystery books, listening to jazz music, and collecting models of soldiers. Lavazza had written two murder mystery books. On February 18, 2010, Lavazza died at the age of 78, leaving his wife and two children to take charge of the company.\n\nAs Lavazza grew older, he became invested in his family business that was started by his grandfather, Luigi, in 1895. Previously, Luigi worked as a salesman, but soon bought a coffee shop which transformed into the Lavazza company. Emilio joined the company in 1955. His role in the company expanded when his father, Beppe, died in 1971. He became the Chief Executive and succeeded his uncle Pericle and became the company's President in 1979.\n\nEmilio spoke multiple languages, including Portuguese, French, and English, which assisted him in making the company more successful. By the year of 1892, the Lavazza company had expanded in international countries, such as France, Germany, Austria, and Switzerland. To promote the brand, Lavazza used the \"bandwagon tactic\" by using famous-award winning actors, Luciano Pavarotti and Monica Vitti, to promote the Lavazza coffee brand.\n\nLavazza had invested himself in advancing technology to produce greater quality of coffee. He called the need for having coffee capsules for shot brewing, and developed the technology to roast and vend the coffee in the later years of his leadership within the company.\n\nIn addition, he made a productive partnership coalition with Catalan Chef Ferran Adria, who is the founder of \"Molecular Gastronomy\" and worked at El Bulli restaurant. With this collaboration, they worked together to produce novelty coffee products and Italian caviar. With the growing success of the Lavazza company under Emilio's reign, he managed to obtain recognition worldwide. He received various honors, such as becoming the President of European Coffee Roasters Associazione Italiana Industrie Prodotti Alimentari and was honored with the title of \"Calivere del Lavoro\" by the Italian President in 1991.\n\nIn 2001, Lavazza further expanded the company in Portugal to reinforce the idea of internationalism. Furthermore, in 2015, the Lavazza company faced inconsistent fluctuations in their shares, which resulted in the Keurig company to buy half of the shares that are worth $624 million. The Lavazza company has a home beverage maker share that is worth approximately 6.6% and in February, the shares' value dropped 7.8%. Keurig purchased 5.2 million shares with a 3% discount because of the stock's declining prices. Because of this, Keurig was able to maintain the stability of the company's condition.\n\nPrior to retiring, on February 1, 2008, Lavazza signed an agreement to occupy one of the Brazilian companies, Cafe Grao Nobre Ltda, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. After signing the agreement, Lavazza had also obtained Cafe Terra Brasil in Sao Paulo, Brazil. With these two major transactions, the Lavazza company becomes one of the major coffee vendors in the world.\n\nToday, the Lavazza company sells coffee in four broad categories: ground, whole bean, espresso, and single serve in the variations of dark to medium roastings. The pricing of the coffee typically varies from $0.00 to $30.00 maximum.\n\nBy 2014, the company's profits had increased to $139.9 million after Emilio's death.\n\n"}
{"id": "2354263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2354263", "title": "Franklin Delano Roosevelt III", "text": "Franklin Delano Roosevelt III\n\nFranklin Delano Roosevelt III (born July 19, 1938) is a retired American economist and academic. Through his father, he is a grandson of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and Eleanor Roosevelt, and through his mother he is a member of the prominent du Pont family.\n\nRoosevelt was the first child born to Franklin Delano Roosevelt Jr. and his first wife, Ethel du Pont. He was born during his paternal grandfather Franklin D. Roosevelt's second term as president and was his eighth grandchild to be born. After his birth, his father said, \"'Battling' Frank III is a beautiful baby.\"\n\nHe has a younger brother, Christopher du Pont Roosevelt, born 1941, also from his parents' marriage. From his father's later marriages (he married 5 times in total), he has two younger half-sisters, Nancy Suzanne Roosevelt (born 1952) and Laura Delano Roosevelt (born 1959), and a younger half-brother, John Alexander Roosevelt (born 1977). He also had a younger half-brother, Benjamin S. Warren III (born 1954), from his mother's later marriage to attorney Benjamin S. Warren, Jr.\n\nAfter graduating from St. Mark's School in Southborough, Massachusetts, Frank Roosevelt received his Bachelor of Arts in Economics from Yale University in 1961, his master's degree from Columbia University in 1968, and his Ph.D. from The New School. His dissertation was entitled \"Towards a Marxist Critique of the Cambridge School\". His work primarily focused on combining Marxism and capitalism in an attempt to make modern economic systems more \"fair\" and less prone to the \"winner takes all\" scenario.\n\nIn 1977, he became a professor at Sarah Lawrence College in Yonkers, New York, where he was chair of the social sciences faculty from 1988 to 1990 and from 1991 to 1993. In retirement, he continued to speak out on his grandparents' legacies.\n\nHe refers to himself as a \"radical\" or \"alternative\" economist.\n\nRhona Free, one of his former students who is a professor of economics at Eastern Connecticut State University, was named in 2004 one of four U.S. Professors of the Year by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching and the Council for Advancement and Support of Education. In her acceptance speech, she cited Roosevelt as a significant influence, saying, \"The most important teacher I ever had was Frank Roosevelt, an economics professor at Sarah Lawrence. He's much more interested in teaching than in testing and in encouraging than in evaluating. In his classes even an average student, as I was, can learn to think critically, express thoughts carefully, and view the world with an open mind.\"\n\nIn 2004, the university awarded him the Lipkin Family Prize for Inspirational Teaching.\n\nRoosevelt, who lives in Manhattan, was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Manhattan Country School. from 1970 to 2010. In 1981, he led the effort to put the school's tuition system on a sliding scale.\n\nRoosevelt led the effort to build a monument to his grandmother Eleanor Roosevelt at Riverside Park in Manhattan. The Eleanor Roosevelt Monument was unveiled in 1996.\n\nRoosevelt has written in support of market socialism.\n\nHe married Grace Rumsey Goodyear on June 18, 1962. She is the daughter of Austin Goodyear and Louisa Robins (granddaughter of Thomas Robins, Jr. and Winifred Hamilton Tucker). They have three children, including a set of twins:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11723", "title": "Freddy Heineken", "text": "Freddy Heineken\n\nAlfred Henry \"Freddy\" Heineken (4 November 1923 – 3 January 2002) was a Dutch businessman for Heineken International, the brewing company bought in 1864 by his grandfather Gerard Adriaan Heineken in Amsterdam. He served as chairman of the board of directors and CEO from 1971 until 1989. After his retirement as chairman and CEO, Heineken continued to sit on the board of directors until his death and served as chairman of the supervisory board from 1989 till 1995. At the time of his death, Heineken was one of the richest people in the Netherlands, with a net worth of 9.5 billion guilders.\n\nHeineken was born on 4 November 1923 in Amsterdam in the Netherlands. He was the grandson of Gerard Adriaan Heineken, who was the founder of the brewery Heineken. He died in 2002.\n\nHe entered the service of the Heineken company – which by then was no longer owned by the family – on 1 June 1941 and bought back stock several years later, to ensure the family controlled the company again. He created the Heineken Holding that owned 50.005% of Heineken International; he personally held a majority stake in Heineken Holding. By the time of his resignation as chairman of the board in 1989 he had transformed Heineken from a brand that was known chiefly in the Netherlands to a brand that is currently famous worldwide.\n\nFreddy Heineken and his driver Ab Doderer were kidnapped in 1983 and released on a ransom of 35 million Dutch guilders (about £15.7 million GBPs). The kidnappers Cor van Hout, Willem Holleeder, Jan Boellaard, Frans Meijer, and Martin Erkamps, were eventually caught and served prison terms. Before being extradited, Van Hout and Holleeder stayed for more than three years in France, first on the run, then in prison, and then, awaiting a change of the extradition treaty, under house arrest, and finally in prison again. Meijer escaped and lived in Paraguay for years, until he was discovered by Peter R. de Vries and imprisoned there. In 2003, Meijer halted resisting his extradition to the Netherlands, and was transferred to a Dutch prison to serve the last part of his term. \n\nThe films \"The Heineken Kidnapping\" (2011) and \"Kidnapping Freddy Heineken\" (2015) are based on this incident.\n\nHeineken married Lucille Cummins, an American from a Kentucky family of bourbon whiskey distillers. Heineken died unexpectedly from pneumonia on 3 January 2002 at the age of seventy-eight in his home in Noordwijk. The businessman died around 6pm in the presence of his immediate family, including his daughter Charlene de Carvalho-Heineken. Heineken struggled for some time with deteriorating health, in 1999 he suffered a mild stroke but recovered. Shortly before his death he broke his arm in a fall. Heineken was buried at the General Cemetery in Noordwijk. Heineken's daughter inherited his fortune. Heineken was a member of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD).\n\nA film of the kidnapping \"De Heineken ontvoering\", with Rutger Hauer playing Freddy Heineken, was released in October 2011. A second film, \"Kidnapping Mr. Heineken\", based on De Vries' book about the kidnapping, was produced by Informant Media in 2013 based on the scenario written by William Brookfield. In this film Heineken is played by Sir Anthony Hopkins with the kidnappers played by Jim Sturgess, Sam Worthington, Ryan Kwanten, Mark van Eeuwen and Thomas Cocquerel.\n\n"}
{"id": "8419990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8419990", "title": "Good faith (law)", "text": "Good faith (law)\n\nIn contract law, the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is a general presumption that the parties to a contract will deal with each other honestly, fairly, and in good faith, so as to not destroy the right of the other party or parties to receive the benefits of the contract. It is implied in every contract in order to reinforce the express covenants or promises of the contract. A lawsuit (or a cause of action) based upon the breach of the covenant may arise when one party to the contract attempts to claim the benefit of a technical excuse for breaching the contract, or when he or she uses specific contractual terms in isolation in order to refuse to perform his or her contractual obligations, despite the general circumstances and understandings between the parties. When a court or triar or fact interprets a contract, there is always an \"implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing\" in every written agreement.\n\nIn U.S. law, the legal concept of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing arose in the mid-19th century because contemporary legal interpretations of “the express contract language, interpreted strictly, appeared to grant unbridled discretion to one of the parties”. In 1933, in the case of \"Kirke La Shelle Company v. The Paul Armstrong Company et al.\" 263 N.Y. 79; 188 N.E. 163; 1933 N.Y., the New York Court of Appeals said:\nIn every contract there is an implied covenant that neither party shall do anything, which will have the effect of destroying or injuring the right of the other party, to receive the fruits of the contract. In other words, every contract has an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.\n\nFurthermore, the covenant was discussed in the First Restatement of Contracts by the American Law Institute, but before adoption of the Uniform Commercial Code in the 1950s, the common law of most states did not recognize an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing in contracts.. Certain states, such as Massachusetts, have stricter enforcement than others. For example, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts will assess punitive damages under Chapter 93A which governs Unfair and Deceptive Business Practices, and a party found to have violated the covenant of good faith and fair dealing under 93A may be liable for punitive damages, legal fees and treble damages. \n\nIn the Indian Penal Code, \"good faith\" is defined under Section 52 as \"Nothing is said to be done or believed in \"good faith\" which is done or believed without due care and attention.\" The Privy Council expanded on this meaning in the case of \"Muhammad Ishaq v. The Emperor\" (1914), in which it held that an action taken by the defendant based on a belief of having a decree passed in his favour, was illegal since he could have found out that he in fact did not enjoy any such favourable decree, if he had inquired with a little more care and attention.\n\nThe implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is especially important in U.S. law. It was incorporated into the Uniform Commercial Code (as part of Section 1-304), and was codified by the American Law Institute as Section 205 of the Restatement (Second) of Contracts.\n\nMost U.S. jurisdictions view the breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing solely as a variant of breach of contract, in which the implied covenant is merely a \"gap-filler\" that provides yet another contractual term, and breach thereof simply gives rise to ordinary contractual damages. Of course, this is not the most ideal rule for plaintiffs, since consequential damages for breach of contract are subject to certain limitations (see \"Hadley v. Baxendale\").\n\nIn certain jurisdictions, breach of the implied covenant can also give rise to a tort action, e.g. \"A.C. Shaw Construction v. Washoe County\", 105 Nevada 913, 915, 784 P.2d 9, 10 (1989). This rule is most prevalent in insurance law, when the insurer's breach of the implied covenant may give rise to a tort action known as insurance bad faith. The advantage of tort liability is that it supports broader compensatory damages as well as the possibility of punitive damages.\n\nSome plaintiffs have attempted to persuade courts to extend tort liability for breach of the implied covenant from insurers to other powerful defendants like employers and banks. However, most U.S. courts have followed the example of certain landmark decisions from California courts, which rejected such tort liability against employers in 1988 and against banks in 1989.\n\nThe Canadian Supreme Court created a new common law duty of honest contractual performance in 2014 in its ruling on the case of \"Bhasin v. Hrynew\" \n\nEnglish private law has traditionally been averse to general clauses and has repeatedly rejected the adoption of good faith as a core concept of private law. Over the past thirty years, EU law has injected the notion of \"good faith\" into confined areas of English private law. The majority of these EU interventions have concerned the protection of consumers in their interactions with businesses. Only Directive 86/653/EEC on the co-ordination of the laws of the Member States relating to self-employed commercial agents has brought \"good faith\" to English commercial law. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "40009997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40009997", "title": "Guinot Mary Cohr", "text": "Guinot Mary Cohr\n\nGuinot Mary Cohr is a Paris-based company specializing in skin-care and beauty products. They are known in the tennis world for sponsoring an exhibition team-tennis event the week before the French Open from 2009 to 2012 known as the Masters Guinot-Mary Cohr.\n\nGuinot products are available through Chicago-based Skin1.\n"}
{"id": "12155668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12155668", "title": "Industrial Workers of the World philosophy and tactics", "text": "Industrial Workers of the World philosophy and tactics\n\nThe Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) is a union of wage workers which was formed in Chicago in 1905 by militant unionists and their supporters due to anger over the conservatism, philosophy, and craft-based structure of the American Federation of Labor (AFL). Throughout the early part of the Twentieth century the philosophy and tactics of the Industrial Workers of the World were frequently in direct conflict with those of the American Federation of Labor (forerunner of the AFL-CIO) concerning the best ways to organize workers, and how to best improve the society in which they toiled. The AFL had one guiding principle—\"pure and simple trade unionism\", often summarized with the slogan \"a fair day's pay for a fair day's work.\" The IWW embraced two guiding principles, fighting like the AFL for better wages, hours, and conditions, but also promoting an eventual, permanent solution to the problems of strikes, injunctions, bull pens, and union scabbing.\n\nThe AFL and the IWW (whose members are referred to as Wobblies) had very different ideas about the ideal union structure. While the AFL primarily organized workers into their respective crafts, the IWW was created as an industrial union – placing all workers in a factory, mine, mill, or other place of business into the same industrial organization. The IWW also promotes the class-based concept of One Big Union.\n\nThe IWW was formed by militant unionists, socialists, anarchists, and other labor radicals who believed that the great mass of workers are exploited by, and are in an economic struggle with, an employing class. The IWW employed a great diversity of tactics aimed at organizing all workers as a class, seeking greater economic justice on the job and, ultimately, the overthrow of the wage system which they believe is most responsible for keeping workers in subjugation. Such tactics are generally described as direct action, which is distinguished from other types of reform efforts such as electoral politics. IWW members believe that change accomplished via politics depends upon appeal to members of a ruling class who derive benefit from the subservient quiescence of the working class.\n\nWhile other unions (such as the CIO) adopted form and tactics—notably, industrial unionism and the sitdown strike—which were developed or pioneered by the IWW, labor laws passed by legislatures have sought to steadily erode the range and diversity of methods employed by all labor organizations. Confronted with such obstacles, militant IWW members tend to believe in a return to a union philosophy that was common a century ago, in which unjust labor laws are challenged directly by union actions, rather than accepted as a framework within which the union must operate.\n\nBy 1912, after a number of defections and splits, the IWW numbered some twenty-five thousand, much smaller than many of its rival unions. But the IWW's influence was already outsized. The Congressional Commission on Industrial Relations noted in 1916 that \"as a 'spirit and vocabulary' [the IWW] permeates to a large extent enormous masses of workers...\" Wobbly activists were those workers who not only reacted to economic forces, but who spent a considerable amount of time thinking, debating, and educating their co-workers about the impact of such forces upon society. John Reed observed, \"Wherever, in the West, there is an IWW local, you will find an intellectual center... a place where men read philosophy, economics, the latest plays, novels; where art and poetry are discussed, and international politics.\"\n\nThe IWW printed hundreds of thousands of leaflets, promoted Industrial Education Clubs, and organized Propaganda Leagues. Stickered slogans, referred to as \"silent agitators\", were printed by the million, and made available by the thousand. IWW libraries in union halls made available to any worker not only the organization's publications, but also practical topics about machinery and production, as well as classic works of scientists, theoreticians, and philosophers. Knowledge and experience were likewise shared—new members were sometimes invited to chair meetings, not just to share the experience, but to initiate them into the community. Indeed, a favorite Wobbly answer to the question, who are your leaders, was the united response, we are all leaders.\n\nWobblies believed not only that it took a working person to understand the needs of the workers, but in order to lead, that person must also be an educated worker. IWW publications seemed to enjoy reporting on \"the amazement shown by college professors who heard Wobbly speakers deliver talks upon a wide variety of subjects and reveal a remarkable understanding of complex economic and social questions.\" By the time of the organization's founding in 1905, inquisitive workers already had a wide variety of union experiences and traditions to consider. In coming together as an organization, then, it is perhaps not surprising that the clash of ideas among IWW members resulted in passionate debate and an eventual winnowing of philosophies over several decades of evolution.\n\nWhere did initial inspirations for the Wobbly philosophy come from? Historian Melvyn Dubofsky is worth quoting at length:\nWobblies ... took their basic concepts from others: from Marx the concepts of labor value, commodity value, surplus value, and class struggle; from Darwin the idea of organic evolution and the struggle for survival as a paradigm for social evolution and the survival of the fittest class; from Bakunin and the anarchists the \"propaganda of the deed\"* and the idea of direct action; and from Sorel the notion of the \"militant minority.\" Hence, IWW beliefs became a peculiar amalgam of Marxism and Darwinism, anarchism and syndicalism — all overlaid with a singularly American patina.\n\nHowever, Dubofsky also identifies American traditions \"dating back to the era of Jefferson and Jackson\" from which the Wobblies derived inspiration, particularly the concepts of a society divided into \"producers and nonproducers, productive classes and parasites.\" Paul Brissenden likewise stated that, \"[t]he main ideas of I.W.W.-ism—certainly of the I.W.W.-ism of the first few years after 1905—were of American origin, not French, as is commonly supposed.\n\nWobblies sought to familiarize theoretical terminology for a worker audience of varied educative experience. A proletarian became a prole, and a plutocrat was a plute. Bill Haywood, in particular, had the ability to translate complex economic theories into simple ideas that resonated with working people. He would frequently preface his speeches with the statement, \"Tonight I am going to speak on the class struggle and I am going to make it so plain that even a lawyer can understand it.\" The Marxian concept of surplus value, Haywood conveyed simply as \"unpaid labor.\" He distilled the voluminous work of Karl Marx into a simple observation, \"If one man has a dollar he didn't work for, some other man worked for a dollar he didn't get.\"\n\nPhilip S. Foner disagreed with Dubofsky on this one point, stating, \"[t]he I.W.W. did not, as did many, if not all, anarchists, advocate 'propaganda of the deed'.\" Taft and Ross likewise appear to disagree with Dubofsky, stating in more general terms, \"violence in labor disputes was seldom inspired by the doctrine of 'propaganda by the deed,' whose self-defeating nature convinced many of its exponents of its fallacy.\" The difference may depend upon how 'propaganda of the deed' is defined.\n\nBy the time of the 1905 founding of the Industrial Workers of the World, the question of whether unionized workers could secure significant change by political actions of their unions had been in contention for some decades. The question had split the National Labor Union in 1872. It created divisions between the membership and the leadership of the Knights of Labor, with the leaders favoring various political agendas including Greenbackism, socialism, and land reform. Labor historian Joseph Rayback believed that significant losses for organized labor in the 1890s pointed the way toward either socialism, or industrial unionism in order to maintain organized labor's momentum.\n\nYet Samuel Gompers, leader of the American Federation of Labor, opposed both courses of action. He and John Mitchell, head of the United Mine Workers, joined an alliance of conservative union leaders and liberal business men in forming the National Civic Federation (NCF). That organization's critics on the left believed that its goals were to suppress sympathy strikes, and to replace traditional expressions of working class solidarity with binding national trade agreements and arbitration of disputes.\n\nBy 1905, the NLU was history, and the Knights of Labor mostly a memory. Mitchell and Gompers of the AFL were beginning to build an alliance with the Democratic Party. While the focus upon political alliance by the AFL (at the perceived cost of class solidarity) was just one aspect of the differing union philosophies, it was a significant one. The formation of the Industrial Workers of the World was in many ways a direct response to the conservatism of the AFL, and its perceived failure to respond to the needs of western miners, lumbermen, and others. However, the political question would likewise play a central role in the internal disputes, and in the eventual evolution of the IWW itself.\n\nAt its opening convention, the Industrial Workers of the World exhibited a \"spirit of unity.\" Although nearly all of the delegates were committed to some form of Socialist politics, there were some significant philosophical differences just under the surface. Western Federation of Miners members and other union veterans wanted the participation of the two Socialist parties, the Socialist Labor Party (SLP) and the Socialist Party, in spite of longstanding animosity between these two political organizations. However, the veteran labor activists did not wish to commit to any particular political party. Nonetheless, some of the Socialists in both camps assumed that an endorsement would be forthcoming.\n\nThe IWW Constitution and Preamble resulting from the 1905 convention were essentially a compromise which papered over these, and other differences. Furthermore, while the SLP viewed organized labor as a mere adjunct to Socialist Labor Party politics, the Socialist Party was divided over whether the AFL, or the new IWW should be the proper vehicle to carry the labor banner of socialism. As a result, many Socialists actually opposed the IWW from the outset.\n\nThe early IWW experienced numerous divisions and splits during the period from 1905 to approximately 1930. It also suffered repression by business and government entities during this period. These experiences had a profound effect on the philosophy and tactics of the organization that survived.\n\nIn spite of the varied philosophies of the participants at the first IWW convention, there were a few compelling concerns which united all. Nearly all who attended acknowledged an \"irrepressible conflict\" between capital and labor. Nearly all could be described as adherents of industrial unionism, as opposed to the craft unionism of the American Federation of Labor. Acknowledging the common practice of AFL craft unions crossing each other's picket lines, the IWW adopted the WFM's description of the AFL as the \"American Separation of Labor.\" In addition to the limitations of organizing by craft, the IWW criticized the AFL for emphasizing common interests between labor and capital, and for organizing only elite workers rather than acknowledging the needs of the entire working class.\nThe AFL was bitterly attacked by speakers who organized the conference, such that many would have been pleased if the federation (although not necessarily its constituent unions) would simply cease to exist. Samuel Gompers responded by declaring that the IWW's organizers were \"trying to divert, pervert, and disrupt the labor movement of the country,\" describing them as \"pirates\" and \"kangaroos.\" Calling the AFL outdated was \"inexcusably ignorant and maliciously false,\" said Gompers. Referring to the birth of the IWW, Gompers commented that \"[t]he mountain labored and brought forth a mouse, and a very silly little mouse at that... historians will record the Chicago [founding of the IWW] as the most vapid and ridiculous in the annals of those who presume to speak in the name of labor...\"\n\nGompers warned all AFL affiliates not to cooperate with IWW members, and told AFL members not to support IWW strikes. Permission was granted to cross IWW picket lines. Although the AFL had offered some support to the Western Federation of Miners in the aftermath of the Colorado Labor Wars, that assistance was discontinued because of WFM affiliation with the IWW. A number of AFL affiliates—machinists, carpenters, hat makers, leatherworkers, and others—decreed that any individual with an IWW card would not be allowed to work in their industries.\n\nThe IWW fought for workers' rights somewhat differently from the AFL. Staughton Lynd described the IWW as \"devoting itself to struggles around demands, rather than negotiating contracts.\" Paul Buhle Lauds the idealism and creativity of the IWW, while asserting that \"the AFL could not claim a single cultural contribution of note.\" Melvyn Dubofsky described the AFL \"[growing] fat while neglecting millions of laborers doomed to lives of misery and want\", and the IWW offering to do what the AFL declined to do by giving hope to those neglected. Yet Dubofsky believed he saw a contradiction between the IWW's goal of a better society, and the desires of its individual members for an improved life. As workers managed to improve their own lives, he theorized, they would have less interest in an improved society. And, the IWW was up against \"flexible and sophisticated adversaries...\" Those adversaries, as often as not, included the AFL.\n\nThe IWW organized many who were \"left out\" of American society, including \"timber beasts, hobo harvesters, itinerant construction workers, exploited eastern and southern European immigrants, racially excluded African Americans, Mexicans, and Asian Americans.\" Due to feelings of alienation and impotence, these workers embraced radical theories aimed at disrupting and replacing the established social order. The IWW maintained low initiation fees and dues, allowed universal transfer of union cards, and disdained apprenticeships in order to attract the lower strata of working society.\n\nAs a result of the splits and de facto purges, the IWW distilled a core set of beliefs and practices. It eschewed political entanglements for revolutionary industrial unionism. the Wobblies of the IWW sought to \"comprehend the nature and dynamics of capitalist society and through increased knowledge, as well as revolutionary activism, to develop a better system for the organization and functioning of the American economy.\"\n\nLabor Historian Melvyn Dubofsky has written that the IWW held \"an instinctive distaste for the world as it was, as well as hope for the creation of a completely new world.\" Yet in addition to a belief in eventual revolution, the IWW \"constantly sought opportunities to improve the immediate circumstances of its members.\"\n\nMarxist Labor Historian Philip S. Foner identifies the same points in the manifesto which called the labor activists to the founding conference in 1905. On the back of each manifesto was printed a declaration of the two requirements for any labor organization to properly represent the workers:\nFirst -- It must combine the wage workers in such a way that it can most successfully fight the battles and protect the interests of the working people of to-day in their struggles for fewer hours, more wages and better conditions.\n\nSecondly -- It must offer a final solution of the labor problem -- an emancipation from strikes, injunctions and bull-pens.\nIWW co-founders Father Thomas J. Hagerty and William Trautmann continued promoting these two essential goals in their 1911 pamphlet, \"One Big Union\". The IWW needed to \"combine the wage-workers in such a way that it can most successfully fight the battles and protect the interests of the workers of today in their struggles for fewer hours of toil, more wages and better conditions,\" and it also \"must offer a final solution of the labor problem—an emancipation from strikes, injunctions, bull-pens, and scabbing of one against the other.\"\n\nHistorian Daniel R. Fusfeld referred to the conflicting labor philosophies held by the AFL and its rivals as job-consciousness (the AFL), and class-consciousness (organizations such as the Knights of Labor and the IWW). These philosophies resulted in oppositional alignment in regards to government.\n\nIn \"Taking Care of Business\", Paul Buhle wrote that the AFL-affiliated United Mine Workers President John Mitchell declared in 1903, \"The trade union movement in this country can make progress only by identifying itself with the state.\" ... [Meanwhile, the] new National Civic Federation (which was supported by the AFL) ... sought to promote labor peace (on the terms of the employers, critics claimed) and to make class consciousness and class struggle obsolete. While the AFL thus became more conservative, the IWW saw itself as a revolutionary organization dedicated to the \"Abolition of the wage system.\"\n\nWhile the AFL's Mitchell and Gompers nurtured their alliance with the Democrats, the IWW changed its Constitution in 1908 to prohibit just such alliances. The 1908 Constitution states, \"to the end of promoting industrial unity and of securing necessary discipline within the organization, the I. W. W. refuses all alliances, direct or indirect, with existing political parties or anti-political sects...\" This language is essentially unchanged in the 2011 IWW Constitution.\n\nThe prohibition on alliances with \"anti-political sects\" is noteworthy. According to Verity Burgmann and others, the Chicago IWW was \"non-political\" rather than \"anti-political.\" Joseph R. Conlin believes the deletion of a political clause from the Preamble in 1908 is only half the story; in 1911 the IWW rejected an amendment to the Preamble that referred to \"the futility of political action.\" In other words, the ban on political involvement only went so far (presumably, banning any political or anti-political alliances \"in the name of the union\"), and the balance of the IWW's membership saw nothing to be gained by outright hostility toward political action.\n\nWriting of the IWW's history through 1917, Foner (who, as a Marxist historian \"favored\" political action) noted that while most Wobblies disdained the ballot, several IWW leaders, individual members, and even entire locals did not necessarily reject politics, and some even participated in election campaigns. While offering skepticism about their accomplishing anything worthwhile, \"Solidarity\" nonetheless commented that there was room for such members in the industrial union movement, since individual members had a right to differing views. Elaborating on this circumstance, Elizabeth Gurley Flynn wrote in the \"Industrial Worker\",\nA working man may be an anarchist or a socialist, a Catholic or a Protestant, a republican or a democrat, but subscribing to the Preamble of the I.W.W. he is eligible for membership.\nWhile the AFL identified with, and made accommodations for the benefit of government, the IWW was ardently opposed to what it viewed as capitalist wars. World War I saw \"Charles Schwab of Bethlehem Steel heralding the day when labor would rule the world and Samuel Gompers edging rapidly toward the businessman's creed of maximum production...\" The IWW opposed the war effort.\n\nBig Bill Haywood described in his autobiography how the IWW issued stickers, which the IWW called silent agitators, to propagandize against the war. The stickers declared, \"Don't be a soldier, be a man. Join the I.W.W. and fight on the job for yourself and your class.\"\n\nThe IWW's opposition to the war led to enmity and, reportedly, behind the scenes attacks from the AFL's Samuel Gompers. In 1919, the year after the end of the war, the AFL seemed to have second thoughts, concluding that works committees of the war years were \"a snare and a cooptation plan.\" Unfortunately by this time, many IWW leaders had been deported or were in prison for the IWW's anti-war pronouncements.\n\nMelvyn Dubofsky notes that Wobbly ideology and Socialist party doctrine both opposed capitalism and advocated something better, but beyond that, they \"conflicted more than they agreed.\" For nearly a decade, Bill Haywood tried to bridge the gap, acting as general secretary of the IWW, and as an officer of the Socialist Party. A fractious former hard rock miner, Haywood would tease audiences by telling them, \"I'm a two gun man from the West, you know.\" After a moment to build the suspense, he would thrust hands into pockets, extracting a red IWW card with one hand, and a red Socialist card with the other. Haywood considered both ideologies vital to the cause of changing the economic system, frequently describing Wobblyism as \"socialism with its working clothes on.\" Yet Haywood was embraced only by the left wing of the Socialist Party, and was eventually ejected from the Socialist Party's National Executive Committee by the conservative wing.\n\nGenerally speaking, American Socialists were interested in acceptance and gradual reform. Wobblies were more cynical about capitalism, and wanted a real revolution. Dubofsky believes, however, that IWW ideology was compatible with Syndicalism.\n\nThe \"New International Year Book\" for 1912 observed that,\n\"the Industrial Workers of the World would place an industry in the hands of its workers, as would socialism; it would organize society without any government, as would anarchism; and it would bring about a social revolution by direct action of the workers, as would syndicalism. Nevertheless, it claims to be distinct from all three.\"\nWhile noting general conformance in the language of IWW and Socialist doctrines, Helen Marot clarified in 1914,\n\"It is the interpretation of the [IWW] preamble by individual members of the organization which has attached the Industrial Workers of the World to the Syndicalist rather than to the Socialist movement. The declaration in the manifesto that the workers should own and operate their own tools, and that they alone should enjoy the fruits of their labor, would mean, according to American Socialists, that all workers, through a political state, or regulated by it, would operate, own, and enjoy collectively all tools and the product of industry. [...] But [the Preamble], interpreted by the leaders of the Industrial Workers, is directly opposed to the political Socialism of America. It is the declaration of the Syndicalists that the new social order will not be dependent on political action or a political state, but it will be an industrial commonwealth in which all governmental functions as we know them to-day will have ceased to exist, and in which each industry will be controlled by the workers in it without external interference.\"\nMarot further notes that such classifications (Socialist or Syndicalist) are important to theorists, but not so important to organized labor itself.\n\nLabor historian Philip S. Foner observed in 1997 that \"virtually every scholar\" who has studied the IWW considers it to be a type of syndicalist organization. Yet he likewise notes key differences. For example, while European syndicalists operate within mainstream unions, the IWW has always displayed an antagonism toward, and disdain for existing craft based trade unions in the United States. This has led the IWW to embrace the concept of dual unionism. When William Z. Foster offered the IWW an opportunity to begin a European syndicalist style program of \"boring from within\" the AFL, the IWW rejected it. Foner concludes, therefore, that the IWW did not inherit its philosophy of revolutionary industrial unionism from French Syndicalism. However, he does also note similarities. Foner believes that IWW members did learn about the organization's kinship with European syndicalist organizations through Wobbly publications, and thereby largely accepted the doctrines of syndicalism, especially after Bill Haywood brought back some ideas about syndicalist tactics from his 1910 visit to Europe.\n\nConlin suggested in 1969 that those who wish to understand the true nature of the IWW should discontinue referring to the IWW as syndicalist. He makes several points: the IWW did not like the term syndicalism; the revolutionary industrial unionism of the IWW had \"distinctly different origins\" than did the syndicalism of Europe; and, there were key differences between the philosophy of the Wobblies, and that of the syndicalists.\n\nRalph Chaplin, IWW editor of \"Solidarity\" and later, of the \"Industrial Worker\", appears to have made similar points to those made by Joseph Conlin. Chaplin wrote,\nIn spite of certain misleading surface similarities, which are unduly stressed by shallow observers, the European anarcho-syndicalist movement and the I.W.W. differ considerably in more than one particular. This was made inevitable by reason of the fact that the I.W.W. was the result of a later and more mature period of industrial development.\n\nThis accounts for the fact that European Syndicalism, unlike the I.W.W., is not organized into One Big Union on the basis of perfectly co-ordinated, centralized industrial departments. It also accounts for the fact that the form of the I.W.W. is designed to serve not only as a powerful combative force in the everyday class struggle, but also as the structure of the new society both as regards production and administration.\nIn 1981 Conlin gave up the \"non-syndicalist\" cause as a semantic exercise, while simultaneously complimenting Dubofsky for his superior treatment of the IWW's American roots.\n\nOthers note that the IWW draws upon socialist and anarchist traditions. In 1921, Robert Hoxie, author of \"Trade Unionism in the United States\", referred to the IWW as \"quasi anarchistic.\" Just two years earlier, in 1919, Paul Frederick Brissenden described the revolutionary industrial unionism of the IWW as industrial unionism \"animated and guided by the revolutionary (socialist or anarchist) spirit...\"\n\nBrissenden wrote, \"The anarchistic element was weak in 1905...\" Vincent St. John recalled in 1914, \"there were so few anarchists in the first convention that there was very little need to classify them.\" But Brissenden also observed that from its inception in 1905, the IWW \"began a sharp swing ... from socialist industrial unionism to anarcho-syndicalist industrial unionism.\" A significant milestone in this swing, in which the \"anarchistic leanings of the direct-actionist wing of the organization\" came to the fore, occurred when the influence of the Socialist Labor Party was purged in 1908.\n\nWobblies have been called socialist, anarchist, and syndicalist. Some would argue that none of these fit well. Writing of French syndicalism in \"The revolutionary internationals, 1864-1943\", Milorad M. Drachkovitch offered the perception that,\nIt did not occur to the syndicalists that the capitalist state, \"eliminated\" by the \"expropriatory general strike\", would be replaced by a new state with a new ruling class—the self-taught officials of the labor unions. It was only after the Bolshevik Revolution that most French syndicalists, dropping the last vestiges of anarchist anti-statism, adopted the slogan \"au syndicat le pouvoir\", i.e., all power to the labor union, which of course meant all power to the union leaders. Syndicalism, without the anarchist prefix, thus eventually became one of the heretical variants of Leninism.\nThe IWW had explicitly rejected Leninism by 1921. (Of course—perhaps unlike the French Syndicalists—the Wobbly perception of any perceived \"centralizing\" tactics by IWW leaders split the organization on multiple occasions...)\n\nFor those who feel compelled to \"classify\" the modern IWW's revolutionary industrial unionism in some broader category, the term used by Brissenden—anarcho-syndicalism—seems to be the current category of choice. However, even Brissenden's use of the term anarcho-syndicalism (in 1919) was met with dismay in some IWW circles, with a writer in \"One Big Union Monthly\" calling such terms \"very misleading.\"\n\nA distinction should likewise be drawn between adopting tactics or principles from the anarchists, and \"actually being described as\" an anarchist organization. The IWW,\n...made a special effort to distinguish itself from the anarchists, emphasizing repeatedly that the two had \"entirely different organizations and concepts of solving the social problem.\"\nIn 1912, William E. Bohn could write in \"The Survey\" that \"all those who properly call themselves industrial unionists ... refuse to bind themselves by means of contracts with their employers. Believing, as they do, that there is an inevitable and continuous struggle between employers and employed, it seems to them that a contract is a truce with their natural enemy, a truce, moreover, which gives him all the advantage.\" Within two decades, based upon experience with other unions whose philosophies did not preclude undercutting embattled groups of industrial workers for the sake of securing their own contract, this would no longer be the case. The CIO began organizing with a moderated form of industrial unionism (Conlin describes the CIO as composed of \"nonrevolutionary\" industrial unions). And by 1938, having observed the burgeoning success of the CIO, even some branches of the IWW began to sign contracts with employers.\n\nThe IWW had believed that if workers did not retain the right to strike whenever called upon, then employers could whipsaw one group of workers against another. Moreover, timed contracts allowed employers to prepare for strikes, rendering such job actions less effective. The IWW's early attitude about labor contracts had mirrored that of the Western Federation of Miners: \"The WFM never demanded a closed shop or an exclusive employment contract. It supported no apprenticeship rules, having no intention of restricting union membership. It wanted jobs for all, not merely for the organized few.\" WFM Secretary Treasurer Bill Haywood believed that in time of crisis the AFL \"had always proved impotent to aid its affiliates, usually sacrificing them on the 'sacred altar of contract'.\" This view was shared by WFM President Charles Moyer, who told the 1903 WFM Convention, \"It behooves us at all times to be free to take advantage of any opportunity to better our condition. Nothing affords the majority of corporations more satisfaction than to realize that they have placed you in a position where you are powerless to act for a period of years.\" According to Historian Melvyn Dubofsky, neither the WFM nor its successive offspring—the American Labor Union (ALU) and the IWW—accepted that a contract with employers was legally or morally binding, and all three organizations believed that workers could best see to their interests by retaining the ability to strike when necessary.\n\nHowever, employers used the no contract manifesto as an excuse not to meet with workers. Local media supported the employers, asking, what was the use of discussing grievances with members of an organization that refused a written agreement, if the workers were free to strike again the moment a dispute was settled? This became a familiar circumstance, and as a result, other unions were sometimes able to sign members that had once marched under the banner of the IWW.\n\nFrom the Paterson strike until the rise of the Agricultural Workers Organization (AWO) in 1915, the IWW had organized successfully during labor struggles, but then had failed to hold its membership. As James P. Cannon would later write,\n...the IWW attracted a remarkable selection of young revolutionary militants to its banner. As a union, the organization led many strikes which swelled the membership momentarily. But after the strikes were over, whether won or lost, stable union organization was not maintained. After every strike, the membership settled down again to the die-hard cadre united on principle.\nThis circumstance prompted a discussion in the IWW press of the question, \"What's wrong with the IWW?\"\n\nThe job delegate system of the AWO proved successful and, for a time, allowed the IWW to ignore the problem of failing to retain members. Rather than soap boxing to sign up workers between jobs, carefully chosen union members with card kits were sent into the fields to sign up others on the job. The results were a considerable improvement. Between 1915 and 1917, the IWW's Agricultural Workers Organization (AWO) organized more than a hundred thousand migratory farm workers throughout the midwest and western United States. IWW members were routinely blacklisted from farm worker employment offices, prompting the IWW to advise job delegates to tear up their personal IWW cards in front of the boss to hold onto their own job. The AWO office would later provide a duplicate card. But signing up significant numbers of workers only eased, and did not in any way solve the problem of membership losses resulting from the no contract philosophy.\n\nThe question of contract became an important factor that tended to divide members of the IWW from their leaders. The two principles of fighting for better wages, hours and conditions, and preparing for the ultimate triumph of labor often came into conflict. IWW members frequently chose the former, while their leadership often saw the latter principle as predominant. As Philip Foner put it, activities that were logical and necessary on the trade union front frequently had to be rejected because they conflicted with revolutionary aims.\n\nIn \"Oil, Wheat & Wobblies\", a book about the Industrial Workers of the World in Oklahoma, Nigel Anthony Sellars wrote that although the CIO \"inherited the egalitarian traditions and syndicalist ideals\" of the IWW, the CIO succeeded where the IWW had failed (in mass organizing of industrial unions) \"in part because the newer organization did not repeat the Wobblies' mistakes, such as refusing to sign time contracts and rejecting political action.\" The IWW view of political action has not been much affected by such analysis. However, in the period of the CIO's impressive ascent, the IWW philosophy about contracts was beginning to evolve. In military terms, the contract eventually came to be viewed somewhat as the role of the infantry, in that ground captured must in some fashion become ground held.\n\nThere are two aspects of the contract question: official recognition of the union by the employer, and the labor contract itself. During its early years, the IWW rejected both. Foner observed that the larger, stronger IWW locals were able to live with this circumstance, for they achieved recognition by force of numbers. However, weak IWW unions lost job control because hostile employers were not bound by contractual recognition, and the companies therefore resorted to hiring workers who were not IWW members. Conlin observed, \"[t]he issues of time contracts and union recognition proved to be the Wobblies' Achilles' heel every time they organized a successful strike.\" Foner concludes that, \"ironically, while the refusal to sign contracts was justified, in part, as a means of keeping the capitalists off balance, experience proved that it had the opposite effect of enabling the employers to use it to their own advantage.\"\n\nOne example of membership loss and acquisition relating to the contract occurred in the Baltimore garment industry. By September 1913 the IWW had organized some of the largest garment shops in the city. During a fourteen-week strike, the IWW was undercut when the conservative AFL-affiliated United Garment Workers (UGW) brought in scab replacement workers. Shortly afterward, at their 1914 Nashville convention, a group of disenchanted UGW unionists split off to form the Amalgamated Clothing Workers (ACW). The IWW was initially the largest of these three organizations in Baltimore. Yet in the three-way free-for-all that occurred there in 1916—a struggle characterized by union scabbing and threats—the IWW lost all of its membership in the district as a result of the other two unions bidding against each other for collective bargaining agreements.\n\nMeanwhile, IWW local unions that did sign contracts had their charters pulled. That was the fate of an IWW branch in Great Falls, Montana, in 1912. Other local organizations were forced to disaffiliate from the IWW, as did the Metal and Machinery Workers Industrial Union No. 440 in Cleveland, Ohio during the 1930s, when they elected to sign a contract with an employer.\n\nDuring the 1927 coal strike in Colorado, a challenge to the policy of refusing union recognition came from within the IWW, when IWW organizer Tom Conners replaced A.S. Embree, who had been jailed for violating the state's anti-picketing policy. After a very successful strike that depleted the state's coal reserves, Conners foresaw the possibility of the State Industrial Commission recognizing the IWW. Conlin indicates that this was the first time such a challenge to the IWW's policy of \"no contracts, no recognition\" had been made from within. However, Embree and his followers opposed the move, and nothing came of it. While the miners gained from the strike, the IWW failed to do so.\n\nIn 1938, the IWW Constitution was amended to allow industrial unions to adopt their own rules concerning contractual agreements. A stipulation adopted in 1946 required that no such agreement could allow workers to engage in work that would undermine any strike.\n\nStaughton Lynd, a labor attorney, activist, and author of \"Solidarity Unionism\", has observed,\n[T]he critical question is not whether or not to have a contract. The critical question is what is in the contract. Ninety-nine percent of AFL-CIO contracts contain a no-strike clause, whereby labor gives up its self-activity, and a management prerogative clause, whereby management retains its ability to act unilaterally, for instance in closing plants. No contract is better than such a contract.\nContracts enforce \"labor peace\" through a clause that prohibits strikes for the duration of the contract. Some unions agree to a no-strike clause in exchange for a grievance arbitration provision, or some similar concession. Not all labor contracts have no-strike clauses. On some occasions, no-strike clauses have become a contract issue in dispute, with workers refusing to accept the no-strike clause, and employers refusing to agree to a contract without same.\n\nIn 2005, Staughton Lynd discussed the historical and legal circumstances relating to the no-strike clause at the IWW's centenary in Chicago, Illinois:\nWhen John L. Lewis, Philip Murray, and other men of power in the new CIO negotiated the first contracts for auto workers and steelworkers, these contracts, even if only a few pages long, typically contained a no-strike clause. All workers in a given workplace were now prohibited from striking as particular crafts had been before. This remains the situation today.\n\nNothing in labor law required a no-strike clause. Indeed, the drafters of the original National Labor Relations Act (or Wagner Act) went out of their way to ensure that the law would not be used to curtail the right to strike. Not only does federal labor law affirm the right \"to engage in . . . concerted activities for the purpose of . . . mutual aid or protection\"; even as amended by the Taft–Hartley Act of 1947, Section 502 of what is now called the Labor Management Relations Act declares:\n\nand for good measure, the drafters added in Section 13 of the NLRA, now section 163 of the LMRA: \"Nothing in this Act, except as specifically provided for herein, shall be construed so as either to interfere with or impede or diminish in any way the right to strike . . . .\"\nWhile the NLRA protects the right to strike, some strikes do not have legal protection. For example, \"[i]f a collective bargaining agreement contains a no-strike clause (the union agrees not to go on strike while the contract is in effect), a strike during the life of the contract would not be protected. The strikers could be fired.\" Some no-strike clauses, however, have qualifications which protect the workers, for example, if they refuse to perform assigned work that has been struck by other workers.\n\nThe Industrial Workers of the World inherited the concept of economic action (as opposed to political action), in part, from the American Labor Union. Melvyn Dubofsky associates economic action with what the IWW would later call direct action. The IWW first mentioned the term \"direct action\" in a Wobbly publication in reference to a Chicago strike conducted in 1910. In this instance the specific methods of direct action are not recorded, but the account referred to a successful strike against Hansel & Elcock Construction which was followed by former strikers persuading former strike breakers to \"dismiss themselves\" from the job.\n\nDirect action in the labor movement initially referred to the actions taken by workers for themselves, as opposed to actions taken in their name by legislative or other representatives. For example, dual-card IWW members have been known to advocate direct action on the shop floor to force employers to provide safer working conditions, to be more responsive to workers' demands, and to avoid speedup situations. However, the expression has sometimes \"been contorted to cover all the implications of mayhem and destruction...\" Some of the confusion may result from varying definitions offered by different Wobbly publications. The \"Industrial Worker\" described direct action as \"any effort made directly for the purpose of getting more of the goods from the boss.\" The eastern U.S. IWW publication \"Solidarity\" defined direct action as \"dealing directly with the boss through your labor union. The strike in its different forms, is the best known example of 'direct action'.\"\n\nAlthough lauded by civil libertarians as an important part of the struggles for civil and constitutional rights, the IWW's free speech fights were carried out for more concrete goals. If they weren't allowed to talk to workers, they wouldn't be able to organize workers. Wobbly activists simultaneously demonstrated that direct action works, and that it was possible for members of the lower strata of society to challenge authority and, through determination and perseverance, to frequently win.\n\nThe workers and the IWW had a common enemy in the communities that became free speech battlegrounds. These were the job sharks, agencies that controlled employment in agriculture and the timber industry. The combination of sharks, anti-union employers, and hostile or indifferent communities kept wages low, and employment uncertain for many workers.\n\nThe attitude in some communities toward IWW members engaging in the fight for free speech is nicely characterized by an editorial in the \"San Diego Tribune\" on March 4, 1912:\nHanging is none too good for them and they would be much better dead, for they are absolutely useless in the human economy. They are the waste material of creation and they should be drained off into the sewer of oblivion, there to rot in cold obstruction like any other excrement.\nThe strategy of the IWW during free speech fights was to put out a call for \"footloose\" workers to come to the community, and to challenge a no speaking ordinance simply by violating it. Wobblies would talk about the job, the unfairness of the system, or would simply read the Declaration of Independence, or the Bill of Rights to the U.S. Constitution. In violation of the law, they would get arrested. By filling the jails with workers, the IWW was able to put pressure on the community's taxpayers, who ultimately had to pay the bill for feeding and housing the prisoners. The taxpayers presumably had the power to avoid such expenses by forcing the local administration to change its policies, or to overturn the ordinance itself.\n\nA primary goal of union is to improve the wages, hours, and working conditions of working people, and the strike, or threat of a strike is one mechanism by which that can be accomplished. However, the IWW also believe that the strike is a means by which working people can educate themselves to the issues of class struggle. Such education, according to the Wobblies, is necessary training in the effort to properly exercise the general strike, which (according to IWW theory) is the best means by which to establish an industrial democracy.\n\nThe IWW has engaged in a significant number of celebrated strikes throughout its colorful history. Each is rich in its own way. During the Colorado coal strike of 1927, IWW organizers had the opportunity to apply many of the strategies and tactics they'd adopted during the previous decades.\n\nJoseph Conlin has written that the 1927 coal strike was a \"unique, indeed critical event in the social and economic history of the West.\" First, it was a coal strike run by Wobblies, rather than the United Mine Workers. Second, many of the miners had a company union, yet still elected to strike under the IWW. Third, it had the first positive result for Colorado coal miners in sixty years of struggle.\n\nThe IWW had editorially criticized the leadership of the United Mine Workers (UMW) during the 1913-14 strike which had led to the Ludlow Massacre. Their view: the miners had been \"sold out\" by \"politicians\" who had timidly refused to employ the full power of an aroused working class. The United Mine Workers responded by banning IWW card holders from membership in the UMW. Because the United Mine Workers had essentially left Colorado in defeat a decade earlier, the IWW began organizing Colorado coal miners in 1925. Organizer Frank Jurich was joined by A.S. Embree, a popular and very capable IWW organizer. Embree had just come from prison, having been incarcerated on syndicalist charges. While in prison, Embree indicated his dedication to the cause. He had written, \"The end in view [the revolution] is well worth striving for, but in the struggle itself lies the happiness of the fighter.\" Embree initially began organizing outlying camps to avoid company opposition.\n\nIn 1927 the IWW called for a three-day nationwide walkout to protest the execution of Sacco and Vanzetti. While the United Mine Workers predicted the IWW's walkout would fail in Colorado, Sheriff Harry Capps of Huerfano County commented that \"fully two-thirds of the miners in the [Walsenburg] district [are] members of the I.W.W.\" When the walkout occurred, out of a total 1,167 miners, 1,132 stayed off the job, and only 35 went to work. Under threat of injunction, the IWW leaders felt they'd demonstrated success, and they persuaded the miners to return to work one day early. Conlin wrote, \"The tactical decision of the Wobblies was to give ground on this occasion to intensify organizing efforts for a statewide strike.\"\n\nOrganizing proceeded apace. In one mine, the Supervisor went to work one morning and discovered \"Wobbly stickers pasted on every timber and cross beam in the place:\" 'Join the Wobblies, Join the Wobblies.'\"\" There were IWW posters \"from the bottom of the shaft clear to the working face.\"\n\nIWW leader Kristin Svanum met in a mass meeting with 187 delegates from 43 of the state's 125 mines to work out the miners' demands. \"Industrial Solidarity\" declared, \"These mass meetings [are] to be the legislative bodies of the strikers.\" The rank and file miners were given full veto power over every aspect of the pending strike. The miners elected a General Strike Committee, which had the power to appoint all other committees, with only miners eligible for committee membership—a policy that demonstrated \"the democratic principles of the Wobblies.\" While Wobbly organizers conducted the meetings, they had no vote in the miners' decisions. The Wobblies were careful that the strike demands reflected only the immediate needs of the workers, rather than long range goals of the IWW. IWW philosophy and economic analysis were communicated only passively through the printing of the union's Preamble on membership cards, on leaflets, and in personal conversations with organizers drawn from the rank and file. For a long time, the Wobbly philosophy was based on the belief that organizing and developing solidarity constituted the best radical education for workers. The perceptions expressed in the IWW Preamble coincided with the Colorado miners' personal experiences with capitalism, and also with their feelings about the United Mine Workers union which since 1914 had seemed to ignore their needs.\n\nAll national groupings were represented on the General Strike Committee—\"Mexican, Slav, Spanish, Greek, Anglo, Italian, and Negro.\"\n\nThere were so many different nationalities in the coal towns of Colorado due to corporate recruitment policy. After the coal strike of 1903-04, the companies intentionally recruited replacement miners who would have social, cultural, and language barriers to overcome before they could unite with other miners to form unions. But the IWW, always the champion of the immigrant and the ethnic worker, had readily overcome such challenges as early as the 1912 Lawrence Textile Strike.\n\nDocile immigrant workers may have been a boon to industry, but invariably, such workers were ruthlessly exploited. In the mines, yesterday's perplexed new arrival often became today's militant unionist.\n\nImmigrants aroused by injustice became targets. The Colorado newspapers railed against foreign workers and, alternately, an alleged foreign, or a lower class philosophy. For example, IWW leaders were called \"tramps with their pants pressed.\" The \"Denver Morning Post\" criticized the strikers' spelling, their speech, their dress, their personal hygiene, and their values. The IWW responded by promoting international and ethnic solidarity. Organizers with Spanish surnames played a vital role. The more loudly the coal operators objected, the quicker the Wobbly message circulated.\n\nThe IWW was careful to follow the minutiae of Colorado law related to the pending strike, in an effort to keep the focus on the miners, rather than on the IWW itself. Nonetheless, the State Industrial Commission declared the pending strike illegal. This decision angered even established labor organizations who had not supported the strike up to that point. They considered it an affront to all of organized labor in Colorado.\n\nIWW organizers were arrested, beaten, and robbed. Proclamations were passed by at least six city councils ordering the IWW to leave. IWW union halls were wrecked. Strike preparations proceeded unabated, and strike votes were held throughout the state. In Lafayette, so many people arrived at the meeting hall to endorse the pending strike that the vote was moved to the football field, and conducted under the headlights of trucks. The \"Denver Post\" estimated that 4,000 attended.\n\nAlong with the coal companies, the state, and many local communities, the United Mine Workers came out publicly against the pending strike. But the strike was called in spite of the opposition, and miners walked. After two weeks of the Wobbly led strike, 113 Colorado coal mines had closed, and just 12 mines remained open. Joseph Conlin declared it the most successful strike in Colorado's history. The coal companies offered a non-negotiated pay increase of sixty-eight cents per day. This offer did not disrupt the strikers' motivation.\n\nWith IWW guidance, the General Strike Committee instructed the miners to commit no violence. The strike saw auto caravans of five hundred strikers traveling in more than a hundred vehicles, touring struck communities to dispense donated food and other provisions. This not only spread the strike, it kept up the strikers' morale. All participants were searched by their leaders for liquor or firearms before each activity.\n\nConlin quotes McClurg to observe that \"Laws were broken, but selectively and with care.\" The state of Colorado banned picketing, but miners voted in mass meetings to ignore the state's ban. Colorado law outlawed red flags such as those long flown by the IWW, so the strikers carried American flags. In a further declaration of non-violent intent, the IWW admonished strikers, \"If anyone is going to be killed, let it be one of our men first.\"\n\nThe Columbine mine, one of the larger of the few mines still working, granted a fifty cent per day pay raise. The IWW saw this as one major coal company weakening, but announced that it was not enough. The Wobblies organized massive marches to the Columbine, numbering from 500 to 1,200 miners plus their families. They sometimes brought a five piece brass band, and they sang union songs, satirizing the company and the police.\n\nIn one surprising episode of \"philosophical warfare\" during the strike, the IWW made an attempt to establish a workers' cooperative for striking miners at an abandoned mine. Two coal mine operators sought to demonstrate that such cooperatives were impossible, and they issued a challenge to the IWW to follow through at their facilities. However, they insisted that the IWW had to post a state-required safety bond within 24 hours, before it could reopen the mines. Since the IWW wasn't able to post the bond within the designated period, the experiment was not pursued.\n\nEntire communities became organized during the 1927 strike, and they were capable of protracted militant action. However, a strike typically puts a dramatic strain on relationships within communities. Affected relationships are not just between strikers and business interests, or between strikers and non-strikers. During a coal strike, entire families are involved. One resident of a coal community spoke of the effect of the 1927 strike on students,\nYou'd think the coal miner was the dirtiest reptile that walked the earth. Everybody was down on the coal miner when he went on strike ... And the teachers were against us. And they had their favorites. The scabs' boys were in there too and, of course, we had gangs just like they do today. And the teachers would side with the scabs' side. Why hells bells man, we had to do something! So we organized (Junior Wobblies) at school just to protect ourselves.\nThe State of Colorado and local law enforcement began to arrest every strike leader that they could identify, on vagrancy or other trumped up charges. Many were deported from the state. In Trinidad, in Walsenberg, and elsewhere, members of strikers' families stepped forward to take the place of arrested leaders, and lead the strike.\n\nSeventy-five IWW members in the Trinidad jail conducted protests that featured bonfires. Prisoners in the Lafayette jail carried on incessant singing. When they were offered their freedom, they refused to leave. A group of prisoners in Erie persuaded their jailers that deputies in Utah and Wyoming received higher pay, had better working conditions, and worked shorter hours. In Pueblo, the jail was secured by \"200 deputies armed with tear bombs, machine guns, rifles, and fire engine pumpers.\"\n\nNewspapers began calling for the governor to no longer withhold the \"mailed fist\", to strike hard and strike swiftly, and for \"Machine Guns Manned By Willing Shooters\" at more of the state's coal mines. Within days, state police and mine guards fired machine guns, rifles, and pistols against 500 unarmed miners and their wives at the Columbine mine, killing six. Now faced with their own massacre, the IWW's leaders kept their focus on the immediate goal: winning the strike. After the memorial services, when some angry miners talked about getting their guns, organizers counseled them with the words of Joe Hill: \"don't mourn, organize!\"\n\nThe miners won a dollar a day increase from the 1927 strike. The miners in the northern field won union recognition from the second largest coal operator in Colorado. It was not recognition of the IWW, as it turned out. The company picked a union for the miners, and it was the United Mine Workers. Nonetheless, these were the most substantial gains the miners had ever achieved from a strike in Colorado. It was the only increase obtained by coal miners in the country during the period from 1928 to 1930.\n\nAlthough the United Mine Workers in Colorado had vocally opposed the strike, they had established an official position of neutrality. However, United Mine Workers agents conducted overt actions against the strikers, including participation in vigilante raids against IWW property. Some UMW miners scabbed on the IWW strike, and others became informants for the state police. One popular United Mine Workers official, a union organizer from the Ludlow era by the name of Mike Livoda, hired himself out to the governor to spy on the Wobblies.\n\nThe most pervasive spying during the 1927 strike was most probably conducted by Colorado Fuel and Iron, the coal and steel company owned by the Rockefeller dynasty. The company organized a network of spies to infiltrate, propagandize against, and disrupt the IWW. Archives currently held at the Bessemer Historical Society reveal that the company used its spies and its relationship with the authorities to compile dossiers on union activists, and to obtain photographs, IWW membership lists, private union correspondence, and other union materials related to the strike.\n\nSumming up the Colorado coal strike, Joseph Conlin concludes that Colorado coal miners were radical, based upon their experiences, and willfully chose to have the IWW lead them. In Conlin's words, \"[t]he failure of the Wobblies to establish and maintain a viable organization in Colorado resulted from the anarcho-syndicalist strategy of the IWW (i.e., no labor contracts, no union recognition), not from the absence of class consciousness and radicalism among the miners.\"\n\nVincent St. John, theorist and leader of the Industrial Workers of the World, wrote in 1917,\nA long drawn out strike implies insufficient organization or that the strike has occurred at a time when the employer can best afford a shut down—or both. Under all ordinary circumstances a strike that is not won in four to six weeks cannot be won by remaining out longer. In trustified industry the employer can better afford to fight one strike that lasts six months than he can six strikes that take place in that period.\nStrikes are to be called \"when the employers can least afford a cessation of work—during the busy season and when there are rush orders to be filled.\" If a strike does not succeed, St. John advises, then the employees go back to work and continue to conduct a job action while on the job. (See \"Strike on the job\", below.) St. John envisioned that strike breakers could be isolated by the union. \"Interference by the government is resented by open violation of the government's orders, [and] going to jail en masse...\"\n\nWhen workers conduct a sit-down strike, they take possession of the workplace by \"sitting down\" at their work stations, preventing the employer from replacing them with strikebreakers, or moving production to other locations.\nLucy Parsons, whose husband was executed in the aftermath of the Haymarket affair, advocated the sit-down strike in her speech at the IWW's Founding Convention. She commented, \"My conception of the strike of the future is not to strike and go out and starve but to strike and remain in and take possession of the necessary property of production.\" Just over a year later, the IWW initiated the first sit-down strike in American history on December 10, 1906, at the General Electric Works in Schenectady, New York, when 3,000 workers sat down on the job and stopped production to protest the dismissal of three union members. The strikers were persuaded to use \"syndicalistic tactics which [were] strongly advocated\" in IWW literature. IWW sources reported that the AFL attacked the IWW in the local press over the strike. The AFL required its affiliates not to honor the strike, on pain of losing their charter.\n\nThe sit-down strike is similar to the sit-in protest, which was used in India during the struggle against British rule, following the experiences of Mohandas Gandhi in South Africa.\n\nAccording to Philip Taft and Philip Ross, U.S. workers who participate in a sit-down strike lose their legal right to recall, based upon a decision by the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nAlthough the IWW pioneered the economic boycott, The New York \"Tribune\" suggested that the IWW was a German front, responsible for acts of sabotage throughout the nation. The IWW did not use the boycott frequently in its early days, primarily because IWW members were frequently not consumers of the products which might be boycotted. However, the organization did believe that the boycott could be an effective weapon in some situations.\n\nDuring the 1912 textile strike in Lawrence, Massachusetts, the IWW boycotted merchants on Essex Street who were opposed to the strikers. The boycott was successful.\n\nIn 1923, a boycott \"of all California products in ship's stores\" was threatened in an effort to have the Criminal Syndicalist Law repealed. The threat, carried out in conjunction with a general strike on the Los Angeles and San Francisco waterfronts, was successful in shutting down the harbors.\n\nAccording to a pamphlet produced by the Industrial Workers of the World,\nA general strike is a strike involving workers across multiple trades or industries that involves enough workers to cause serious economic disruption.\n\nIn essence, a general strike is the complete and total shutdown of the economy. A general strike can last for a day, a week, or longer depending on the severity of the crisis, the resolve of the strikers, and the extent of public solidarity. During the strike, large numbers of workers in many industries (excluding employees of crucial services, such as emergency/medical) will stop working and no money or labor is exchanged. All decisions regarding the length of the strike, the groups of workers who continue working, and demands of the strikers are decided by a strike committee.\nBill Haywood believed that industrial unionism made possible the general strike, and the general strike made possible industrial democracy. In a 1911 speech in New York City, Haywood explained his view of the economic situation, and why he believed a general strike was justified,\nThe capitalists have wealth; they have money. They invest the money in machinery, in the resources of the earth. They operate a factory, a mine, a railroad, a mill. They will keep that factory running just as long as there are profits coming in. When anything happens to disturb the profits, what do the capitalists do? They go on strike, don't they? They withdraw their finances from that particular mill. They close it down because there are no profits to be made there. They don't care what becomes of the working class. But the working class, on the other hand, has always been taught to take care of the capitalist's interest in the property.\nHaywood acknowledged three different levels of general strike:\n\n\nThe ultimate goal of the general strike, according to the Industrial Workers of the World, is to displace capitalists and give control over the means of production to workers. Foner notes that the first person recorded mentioning the general strike as a weapon for the IWW was Lucy Parsons. The concept didn't receive much attention from the Wobbly press until 1910, and especially 1911.\n\nAccording to Wobbly theory, the conventional strike is an important (but not the only) weapon for improving wages, hours, and working conditions for working people. These strikes are also good training to help workers educate themselves about the class struggle, and about what it will take to execute an eventual general strike for the purpose of achieving industrial democracy. During the final general strike, workers would not walk out of their shops, factories, mines, and mills, but would rather occupy their workplaces and take them over. Prior to taking action to initiate industrial democracy, workers would need to educate themselves with technical and managerial knowledge in order to operate industry.\n\nAccording to Foner, the Wobbly conception of industrial democracy is intentionally not presented in detail by IWW theorists; in that sense, the details are left to the \"future development of society.\" However, certain concepts are implicit. Industrial democracy will be \"a new society [built] within the shell of the old.\" Members of the industrial union educate themselves to operate industry according to democratic principles, and without the current hierarchical ownership/management structure. Issues such as production and distribution would be managed by the workers themselves.\n\nA \"strike on the job\" was often called when a conventional strike seemed likely to lose. When some Wobblies were fired for exercising a strike on the job, they would move to a different job, unafraid to repeat the tactic as needed. (See \"Silent strike, slowdown, exceptional obedience (work to rule)\", below.)\n\nSeveral labor historians have used the expression \"silent strike\" to identify one strike tactic among many ascribed to the IWW. However, it doesn't appear that the Industrial Workers of the World often used the expression \"silent strike.\" One exception was a 1911 report from Frank Little to the \"Industrial Worker\" on his time working with California farmworkers. \"We have the silent strike on... The slave drivers are wild—the slaves won't work as hard as they want them to.\"\n\nA definition of silent strike is offered in a book about the Filipino sugar strike of 1924-1925:\n...employees who do not receive the wages demanded will go on a silent strike, staying on the job, but doing only enough work to earn the wages they receive.\nAccording to the book, no IWW organizers were involved in a strike that erupted into a gunbattle, but the \"Honolulu Star-Bulletin\" blamed the IWW for the labor unrest anyway.\n\n\"The Harvard Monthly\" of 1913 offers a more embellished definition,\nIn case of failure to achieve any gains by a strike, the worker resorts to sabotage, the silent strike by which are gained all the advantages of the open strike without its dangers; i.e., the men keep their places at their machines, thus preventing and making unnecessary the employment of scabs, pretending to do the work for which they receive their pay, but actually doing only so much of it as is needed to deceive the overseers. At the same time the worker employs many methods of attacking the employer, such as breaking delicate parts of machinery, mixing wrong ingredients into compounds, telling truth or lies to customers, anything, in short, to force the employer to terms.\n\nIt is useless to assert that these methods will not appeal to AngloSaxon workers, as does one writer on the subject. Certainly sabotage is not \"fair-play,\" but neither is in the eyes of the laborer, the condition which forces him to it.\nThe terms \"exceptional obedience\" and \"work to rule\" appear to be modern variations of a similar expression frequently used by the Wobblies—\"striking on the job.\" This tactic went by other names (and descriptions) as well. In her introduction of the 1916 pamphlet \"Sabotage\", Elizabeth Gurley Flynn observed that \"sabotage [is] an instinctive defense [that] existed long before it was ever officially recognized by any labor organization. Sabotage means primarily: the withdrawal of efficiency.\" (See \"Sabotage\" section, below.)\n\nBecause the IWW gave vocal support to \"sabotage\" during the period after 1910 (usually accompanied by an advisory against violence)—frequently explained as anything from conscious withdrawal of efficiency to more definite measures—the definitions tend to be vague. A common Wobbly expression such as \"fix the job\" might mean a slowdown, a work stoppage, or something more.\n\nDubofsky writes that the \"on the job strike [is] essentially a form of non-violent sabotage\", and that,\nSometimes, it was claimed, the workers could even effect sabotage through exceptional obedience: Williams and Haywood were fond of noting that Italian and French workers had on occasion tied up the national railroads simply by observing every operating rule in their work regulations.\nThe IWW withdrew the \"official\" status of Flynn's sabotage pamphlet, but it is still in circulation. In 1919 the IWW likewise advised its membership that the broad IWW definition of sabotage, essentially covering a range of activities from slacking on the job to disabling equipment, had become so distorted toward the latter (in the IWW's view) that the use of the word had become more trouble than it was worth (See \"Sabotage\" section, below).\n\nWhile the IWW pioneered many of these concepts, they have since been adopted and advocated by others. For example, in \"A Troublemaker's Handbook 2\", Aaron Brenner has written,\nWorkers have the power to inflict economic damage on a company without going on strike. They can use this power to extract concessions at the bargaining table by disrupting production, undermining management control on the shop floor, and hurting the company’s profits—while still on the job. Such “inside strategies” are not easy, but they can be better than walking out, especially when the company is prepared for a strike.\nThe \"Troublemaker's Handbook\" discusses some legal aspects of \"inside strategies\", including the fact that legality may depend, in part, upon the reasons offered for a work to rule campaign. The modern IWW likewise offers disclaimers on its website when introducing historical documents related to sabotage, for example,\n[excerpt] The IWW takes no official position on sabotage (i.e. the IWW neither condones nor condemns such actions). Workers who engage in some ... forms of sabotage risk legal sanctions.\nWhen disgruntled workers damage or destroy equipment or interfere with the smooth running of a workplace, it is called workplace sabotage. While Luddites sought to \"turn back the clock\" to an era before the introduction of workplace machinery, radical labor unions such as the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) have advocated sabotage as a tactical means of self-defense against unfair working conditions.\n\nThe first references to the terms \"sabotage\" and \"passive resistance\" in the IWW press appeared in approximately 1910. These terms were used in connection with a strike against a Chicago clothing company called Lamm & Co. and the connotation of sabotage in that job action referred to \"malingering or inefficient work.\"\n\nThe IWW was shaped in part by the industrial unionism philosophy of Big Bill Haywood, and in 1910 Haywood was exposed to sabotage while touring Europe:\nThe experience that had the most lasting impact on Haywood was witnessing a general strike on the French railroads. Tired of waiting for parliament to act on their demands, railroad workers walked off their jobs all across the country. The French government responded by drafting the strikers into the army and then ordering them back to work. Undaunted, the workers carried their strike to the job. Suddenly, they could not seem to do anything right. Perishables sat for weeks, sidetracked and forgotten. Freight bound for Paris was misdirected to Lyon or Marseille instead. This tactic—the French called it \"sabotage\"—won the strikers their demands and impressed Bill Haywood.\n\nFor the IWW, sabotage came to mean any withdrawal of efficiency—including the slowdown, the strike, or creative bungling of job assignments.\nRalph Chaplin, an IWW artist and poet, drew the IWW's image of a black cat with flashing teeth and bared claws as a symbol of the IWW's concept of sabotage. In testimony before the court in a 1918 trial of IWW leaders, Chaplin stated that the black cat \"was commonly used by the boys as representing the idea of sabotage. The idea being to frighten the employer by the mention of the name sabotage, or by putting a black cat somewhere around. You know if you saw a black cat go across your path you would think, if you were superstitious, you are going to have a little bad luck. The idea of sabotage is to use a little black cat on the boss.\"\n\nHistorically the IWW was \"accused\" of outright damage to property—for example, getting the blame for causing wheat field fires in a book of fiction by Zane Grey, published in 1919 at the height of the red scare. The extent to which the IWW actually practiced sabotage, other than through their \"withdrawal of efficiency,\" is open to dispute. IWW organizers often counseled workers to avoid any actions that would hurt their own job prospects. Even so, when the term \"sabotage\" is applied to workers, it is frequently interpreted to mean actual destruction. A study by Johns Hopkins University in 1939 determined,\nAlthough there are contradictory opinions as to whether the IWW practices sabotage or not, it is interesting to note that no case of an IWW saboteur caught practicing sabotage or convicted of its practice is available.\nMelvyn Dubofsky has written, \"...hard as they tried, state and federal authorities could never establish legal proof of IWW-instigated sabotage. Rudolph Katz ... was perhaps close to the truth when he informed federal investigators, 'The American Federation of Labor does not preach sabotage, but it practices sabotage; and the I.W.W. preaches sabotage, but does not practice it.'\"\n\nConlin seems not to accept the implied Wobbly innocence on the charge of sabotage. Rather, he puts any possible transgressions into a different perspective, writing (in 1969) that in the aftermath of the anti-war crackdown,\nThe I.W.W.'s actual culpability of wheatfield fires and sawmill wreckings had become unimportant because of the government's greater offenses.\nIn 1918, sedition and anti-sabotage laws were passed in the United States. The General Executive Board of the IWW issued a statement referring to the anti-sabotage law, which concluded:\nThe membership will find it to their advantage to forget and drop the word. The word itself is not worth it. It may arise again in the future in its true light and in its true meaning. If so, the future will care for itself. We should be and are too busy building the One Big Union to argue with Congress or departments of justice as to the real meaning of a poor French word.\nRobert Hoxie, whose work was collected in the 1921 publication \"Trade Unionism in the United States\", was one of the foremost experts on the trade union movement in the early twentieth century. Hoxie considered the Industrial Workers of the World the \"most clear representative\" of revolutionary unionism in the United States. In his discussion of the IWW, he explained the nature of sabotage in detail that is worth quoting at length:\nSabotage is an elusive phenomena and is difficult of accurate definition. Briefly described it is called \"striking on the job.\" J. A. Estey, in his \"Revolutionary Unionism,\" does well when he says: \"In Syndicalist practice it [sabotage] is a comprehensive term, covering every process by which the laborer, while remaining at work, tries to damage the interests of his employer, whether by simple malingering, or by bad quality of work, or by doing actual damage to tools and machinery\" (p. 96). This definition puts admirably the essential, underlying characteristics of sabotage, but in practice it ranges even beyond such limits. There are almost an indefinite number of ways of \"putting the boots to the employer\" which have come to properly be included under the general designation, and some of them have been employed by conservative unionists time out of mind. Ca' Canny or soldiering is one of them, which was a practice long before revolutionary unionism was known to the mass of workers. In essence it is practiced by every union that sets a limitation on output. Living strictly up to impossible safety rules enacted by the employers for their own protection is another method. Wasting materials, turning out goods of inferior quality or damaging them in the process, misdirecting shipments, telling the truth about the quality of products, changing price cards, sanding the bearings, salting the soup and the sheets, \"throwing the monkey wrench into the machinery\"—all are methods of practicing sabotage that have become familiar.\nA study in 1969 concluded that \"IWW activity was virtually free of violence.\" However, it was not uncommon for violence to be called for, and used against IWW organizers and members. In 1917, for example, popular organizer Frank Little, an officer of the IWW's General Executive Board, was hung from a Butte, Montana railroad trestle, a victim of vigilante justice. And during the 1927 coal strike in Colorado, the \"Denver Morning Post\" editorialized that if the Wobblies picketed again, then it was time for the governor to stop withholding the \"mailed fist\", and to strike hard and strike swiftly against them. Two weeks later, the \"Boulder Daily Camera\" editorialized that \"machine guns manned by willing shooters are wanted\" at Colorado coal mines. The following week, striking miners were machine gunned by the state, and six died. Conlin has asserted that \"few organizations in American history of any stripe have experienced repression so cynical as did the I.W.W.\"\n\nIn a few cases, violence was met with violence. Who was at fault, and who initiated the attack, have been historical questions debated to the present day in both the Everett massacre and the Centralia massacre, although a study by Philip Taft and Philip Ross concludes that \"the IWW in Everett and Centralia was the victim, and the violence was a response to attacks made upon its members for exercising their constitutional rights.\"\n\nThus, it is no surprise that the question of violence was a perennial matter of discussion and debate within the IWW. Some, like Arturo Giovannitti, Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, and Vincent St. John, took the position that while the union did not favor violence, it would not shy away from its use if necessary to accomplish the social revolution. \"Smiling Joe\" Ettor, on the other hand, agreed with Bill Haywood that the only kind of force to which the organization could lend its name was the use of the general strike for the overthrow of capitalism. Haywood, who had been secretary treasurer of the Western Federation of Miners during a violent period in its history, described the goals of the IWW in 1913:\nIt will be revolution, but it will be bloodless revolution. The world is turning against war. People are sickened at the thought. Even labor wars of the old type are passing. I should never think of conducting a strike in the old way. There will never be another Coeur d'Alene, another Cripple Creek. I, for one, have turned my back on violence. It wins nothing.\n\nWhen we strike now, we strike with our hands in our pockets. We have a new kind of violence—the havoc we raise with money by laying down our tools. Our strength lies in the overwhelming power of numbers.\nConlin has also observed that \"to dwell on the martyrs and the debacle that did in the I.W.W. (i.e., government repression after World War I) is to detract or at least to distract from the Wobblies' importance as a functioning and ... apparently successful union.\"\n\nIn 1969 the \"History of Violence in America\" reported about the 1918 trial of IWW officers and members,\nUnlike the other national federations such as the Knights of Labor, the American Federation of Labor, and the Congress of Industrial Organizations, the IWW advocated direct action and sabotage. These doctrines were never clearly defined, but did not include violence against isolated individuals. Pamphlets on sabotage by Andre Tridon, Walker C. Smith, and Elizabeth Gurley Flynn were published, but Haywood and the lawyers for the defense at the Federal trial for espionage in Chicago in 1918 denied that sabotage meant destruction of property. Instead Haywood claimed it meant slowing down on the job when the employer refused to make concessions.\nFoner observes that the IWW's General Executive Board issued a statement opposing violence:\n[The IWW] does not now and never has believed in or advocated either destruction or violence as a means of accomplishing industrial reform; first, because no principle was ever settled by such methods; second, because industrial history has taught us that when strikers resort to violence and unlawful methods, all the resources of Government are immediately arrayed against them and they lose their cause; third, because such methods destroy the constructive impulse which it is the purpose of this organization to foster and develop in order that the workers may fit themselves to assume their places in the new society.\nRobert Hoxie writes,\nIn the popular conception of things revolutionary unionism is generally distinguished by violence and sabotage. The tendency, however, to make violence the hall-mark of revolutionary unionists is a great mistake. The bulk of revolutionary unionists embraces the most peaceful citizens we have, and on principle. Most violence in labor troubles is committed by conservative unionists or by the unorganized.\nHoxie continues,\nIn short, violence in labor troubles is a unique characteristic of no kind of unionism, but is a general and apparently inevitable incident of the rise of the working class to consciousness and power in capitalistic society.\n\nSecondly, revolutionary unionism is not to be marked off from other kinds of unionism by its employment of sabotage as an offensive and defensive weapon. It is true that sabotage is a weapon whose use is highly characteristic of revolutionary unionism, but the notion that its use is confined to revolutionary unionists fades out the moment its true character and varied forms are known. It is moreover distinctly repudiated by many revolutionary unionists, is not confined to revolutionary unions, and, it might be added, is not confined to workers alone.\nHoxie explains,\nAs the unionists point out, essentially the same thing is practiced by employers and dealers who adulterate goods, make shoddy, conceal defects of products, and sell goods for what they are not.\nIn 1916, the Commission on Industrial Relations, created by the U.S. Congress, reported,\nThe greatest uncertainty exists regarding the legal status of almost every act which may be done in connection with an industrial dispute. In fact, it may be said that it depends almost entirely upon the personal opinion and social ideas of the court in whose jurisdiction the acts may occur.\n\nThe general effect of the decisions of American courts, however, has been to restrict the activities of labor organizations and deprive them of their most effective weapons, namely, the boycott and the power of picketing, while on the other hand the weapons of employers, namely, the power of arbitrary discharge, of blacklisting, and of bringing in strikebreakers, have been maintained and legislative attempts to restrict the employers' powers have generally been declared unconstitutional by the courts. Furthermore, an additional weapon has been placed in the hands of the employers by many courts in the form of sweeping injunctions, which render punishable acts which would otherwise be legal, and also result in effect in depriving the workers of the right to jury trial.\nThe report includes the testimony of Judge Walter Clark, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of North Carolina:\nChairman Walsh. Have you studied the effect of the use of injunctions in labor disputes generally in the United States, as a student of economics and the law?\n\nJudge Clark. I do not think they can be justified, sir, * * * [Their effect] has been, of course, to irritate the men, because they feel that in an anglo-Saxon community every man has a right to a trial by jury and that to take him up and compel him to be tried by a judge, is not in accordance with the principles of equality, liberty, and justice.\n\nChairman Walsh. Do you think that has been one of the causes of social unrest in the United States?\n\nJudge Clark. Yes, sir, and undoubtedly will be more so, unless it is remedied.\nThe congressional report concludes from this exchange,\n...opinions cited above are very impressive and are convincing that the workers have great reason for their attitude... such injunctions have in many cases inflicted grievous injury upon workmen engaged in disputes with their employers, and ... their interests have been seriously prejudiced by the denial of jury trial, which every criminal is afforded, and by trial before the judge against whom the contempt was alleged ... It is felt to be a duty, therefore, to register a solemn protest against this condition...\nBy most accounts, in spite of its apparent candor, the U.S. Congress failed to act upon this investigation of the reasons for industrial unrest.\n\nOne significant difference between the IWW and mainstream unions (specifically, the AFL) concerns their interpretation of, and reaction to the law. Laws are passed by the state. AFL unions concerned themselves with issues of law and order. In the eyes of the IWW, the state was variously considered irrelevant, illegitimate, or merely an extension of capitalist power. The IWW Preamble and Constitution, which encapsulate the organization's philosophy and to some extent, formulate policy, are silent on the specific question of government, yielding only a strong implication that government as constituted would cease to exist in a Wobbly world (a \"new society within the shell of the old\").\n\nTo Wobblies beaten by cops while picketing the job, the only law that mattered was the law of the jungle. In the words of historian Melvyn Dubofsky, the AFL sought industrial harmony, the IWW praised perpetual industrial war.\n\nDubofsky concludes that while Wobbly speechmaking often created a wrong perception of IWW intentions and practices, the IWW actually practiced passive resistance and promoted non-violence. Yet passive resistance is distinct from pacifism. Dubofsky wrote,\nNonviolence was only a means to an end. If passive resistance resulted only in beatings and deaths, then the IWW threatened to respond in kind.\nArturo Giovannitti summarized his perception of the Wobbly philosophy, \"The generally accepted notion seems to be that to kill is a great crime, but to be killed is the greatest.\"\n\nLabor legislation can have a very significant impact upon union organizing, and efforts to organize the coal industry offer a good example. Coal miners had been struggling for sixty years to organize unions in the Western United States, with little success. All of that changed in the early 1930s when the companies began to perceive a difference between the business unionism of the United Mine Workers, and their more radical competitors.\n\nIn 1933, Franklin Delano Roosevelt established the National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA) including Section 7(a), guaranteeing the right to collective bargaining. The law originated with the coal industry, which had been beset by organizing drives by radical labor organizations such as the Industrial Workers of the World (Colorado strike in 1927), the Progressive Miners in Illinois, the West Virginia Mine Workers Union, and the National Miners Union (formed in 1928), which also was founded on the principles of class struggle. Facing such stiff competition, the AFL-affiliated United Mine Workers was a \"shambles\" during this period, with its membership having dropped to less than a quarter of its former strength.\n\nAfter decades of hostility toward unions, in 1931 the coal industry's magazine, \"Coal Age\", began editorializing in favor of the \"desired stabilization of wages and working conditions [via] recognition and acceptance of an outside labor organization.\" John L. Lewis, President of the United Mine Workers, later claimed that his union had written the language that ultimately appeared in the NIRA. The NIRA favored a specific type of industrial union, and greatly increased the barriers to organizing radical unions.\n\nThe United Mine Workers union was also supported by the government and by some coal companies against their more radical rivals. In some cases, the United Mine Workers legitimized strike breaking by issuing union cards to miners who had crossed picket lines of a rival organization. By 1936, the United Mine Workers had gained contracts with all the major coal operators in North America.\n\nIn U.S. legal terminology, the concept of minority unionism refers to the situation in which workers who wish to engage in concerted activity, which means action taken by workers for mutual aid or protection. In the U.S., such activity is protected by federal labor law. Generally speaking, concerted activity takes place, and is therefore protected, whenever two or more employees act together to improve their terms and conditions of employment. (The protections are fairly broad, although corporations frequently benefit from employees not knowing their rights.)\n\nAccording to union activists, workers engaging in concerted activity may also be said to be engaging in minority unionism. While the status of concerted activity is well established, the precise legal status of bargaining rights for a minority union, or alternatively of bargaining rights for individual members of such a union, is not clear. In 2005, Charles Morris published a legal treatise called The Blue Eagle At Work: Reclaiming Democratic Rights in the American Workplace which offers an as yet untested legal theory about minority unionism.\n\nHowever, the Industrial Workers of the World have held from the organization's founding that workers, whether in a majority or not, nonetheless have the right and the ability to join together to act in their own best interest, whether through traditional bargaining, or by other means. This is quite different from more orthodox unions, which typically rely upon union recognition by a workplace majority and a collective bargaining agreement, accompanied by dues checkoff and other conventions, before they will represent a group of employees.\n\nThe IWW relies upon members to submit dues voluntarily, instead of relying on the \"dues check off\" system, in which dues are automatically deducted from workers' paychecks by their employer. Throughout the organization's history, a constitutional provision has prohibited IWW organizations from allowing employers to handle union dues.\n\nIWW dues collection most typically operates according to the Job Delegate system, which was developed by the Agricultural Workers Organization (AWO) of the IWW.\n\nBeginning around 1915 with the rise of the Agricultural Workers Organization, the field delegates for the IWW used itinerant workers' means of transportation, illegally hopping freight trains, to grow to their ranks. Delegates rode trains and demanded to see a Red Card, proof of membership in the IWW, from each hobo bound for the harvests. If a rider could not produce a card, he or she either had to purchase one from the delegate or get off the train. IWW organizer Harry Howard describes an instance of this in a 1916 letter to \"Solidarity\", the union's national newspaper, writing, \"We left on the night of August 10th with twenty-five or thirty other fellow workers. We took charge of the train and ditched all unorganized men at stops north of Fargo.\" In 1922, the U.S. Marshal to the Western District of Washington collected 19 affidavits from freight train riders in that state who admit seeing this practice. One reads, \"The IWW tried to make me take out a card in North Dakota but I refused. When in the State of Washington… I was forced to take out a card or be thrown off in a desolate country.\" This tactic lost effectiveness as the automobile supplanted the freight train as the most popular form of transportation for itinerant laborers in the mid- to late-1920s. \n\nThe Industrial Workers of the World has enjoyed and occasionally suffered from a distinctive public image. The organization has been chronicled in fiction as varied as Zane Grey's anti-Wobbly book \"Desert of Wheat\", and James Jones' influential 1951 novel, \"From Here to Eternity\". Conlin attributes some of the chronicles to \"fascination with the vitality of those on the bottom. He notes, however, that a romantic image of the Wobblies was not ever entirely inappropriate. For example, Haywood was frequently the recipient of invitations from Mabel Dodge Luhan and \"other fashionable literati,\" and \"a romanticized IWW\" was the subject of books and poems throughout the 1910s. Conlin observes that \"no later than 1908, the Wobblies were vividly conscious of their romantic aspect and took easily to self-dramatization.\" This was evident in their singing, in their song parodies, in their skits, in their poetry and in their cartoons. From soap boxing to the Paterson pageant, from their colorful lingo to \"building the battleship\" in the free speech fight jails, Wobblies seemed to instinctively comprehend the benefits of publicity for their cause.\n\nConlin does note, however, that shortly after the 1913 Paterson Pageant at Madison Square Garden, the IWW officially disclaimed the utility of such productions, and \"turned to more proper union activity\" (in a period which coincided with the organization's dramatic growth) until the \"apocalypse\" of government intervention in 1917-18.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "467888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=467888", "title": "Inspection", "text": "Inspection\n\nAn inspection is, most an organized examination or formal evaluation exercise. In engineering activities inspection involves the measurements, tests, and gauges applied to certain characteristics in regard to an object or activity. The results are usually compared to specified requirements and standards for determining whether the item or activity is in line with these targets, often with a Standard Inspection Procedure in place to ensure consistent checking. Inspections are usually non-destructive.\n\nInspections may be a visual inspection or involve sensing technologies such as ultrasonic testing, accomplished with a direct physical presence or remotely such as a remote visual inspection, and manually or automatically such as an automated optical inspection. Non-contact optical measurement and Photogrammetry have become common NDT methods for inspection of manufactured components and design optimisation.\n\nA 2007 Scottish Government review of scrutiny of public services (the Crear Review, 2007) defined inspection of public services as \"... periodic, targeted scrutiny of specific services, to check whether they are meeting national and local performance standards, legislative and professional requirements, and the needs of service users.\"\n\nA \"surprise inspection\" tends to have different results than an announced inspection. Leaders wanting to know how others in their organization perform can drop in without warning, to see directly what happens. If an inspection is made known in advance, it can give people a chance to cover up or to fix mistakes. This could lead to distorted and inaccurate findings. A surprise inspection, therefore, gives inspectors a better picture of the typical state of the inspected object or process than an announced inspection. It also enhances external confidence in the inspection process. See section 4.12 of the Crear report.\n\nQuality related in-process inspection/verification is an essential part of quality control in manufacturing.\n\nInspection in manufacturing includes measuring, examining, testing, or gauging one or more characteristics of a product or process and comparing the results with specified requirements to determine whether is the requirements are met for each characteristic. Common examples of inspection by measurement or gauging include using a caliper or micrometer to determine if a dimension of a manufactured part is within the dimensional tolerance specified in a drawing for that part, and is thus acceptable for use.\n\nDesign for Inspection (DFI) is a concept that should complement and work in collaboration with Design for Manufacturability (DFM) and Design for Assembly (DMA) to reduce product manufacturing cost and increase manufacturing practicality.\n\nPhotogrammetry is a modern way of visual inspection, delivering high accuracy and traceability for various industries. The portable 3D system is a versatile optical coordinate measuring machine (CMM) with a wide range of capabilities. Highly accurate point measurements can be taken with inspection carried out directly to CAD models, geometry or drawings.(DFI)\n\nMost fire equipment needs to be inspected to make sure in the event of a fire, every effort has been taken to make sure it doesn't get out of control. Extinguishers are to be inspected every month by law and inspected by a servicing company at least once a year.Fire extinguishers can be heavy, so it's a good idea to practice picking up and holding an extinguisher to get an idea of the weight and feel.\n\nIn international trade several destination countries require pre-shipment inspection. The importer instructs the shipper which inspection company should be used. The inspector makes pictures and a report to certify that the goods that are being shipped and produced are in accordance with the accompanying documents.\n\nCommodity inspection is other term that is used between buyers and sellers. The scope of work for commodity inspection depends to the buyers. Some buyers hire the inspection agencies only for pre-shipment inspections i.e. visual quality, quantity, packing, marking and loading inspections and some others request for higher level inspections and ask inspection agencies to attend in the vendor shops and inspect commodities during manufacturing processes. Normally inspection is done based on an agreed inspection and test plan (ITP).\n\nIn government and politics, an \"inspection\" is the act of a monitoring authority administering an official review of various criteria (such as documents, facilities, records, and any other assets) that are deemed by the authority to be related to the inspection. Inspections are used for the purpose of determining if a body is complying with regulations. The inspector examines the criteria and talks with involved individuals. A report and evaluation follows such visits.\n\nThe Food Safety Inspection Service is charged with ensuring that all meat and egg products in the United States are safe to consume and accurately labeled. The Meat Inspection Act of 1906 authorized the Secretary of Agriculture to order meat inspections and condemn any found unfit for human consumption. The United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission is a regulatory body that inspects for weapons of mass destruction. The Scottish Commission for the Regulation of Care regulates and inspects care services in Scotland.\n\nA vehicle inspection, e.g., an annual inspection, is a necessary inspection required on vehicles to conform with laws regarding safety, emissions, or both. It consists of an examination of a vehicle's components, usually done by a certified mechanic. Vehicles pass a pre-warranty inspection, if, and only if, a mechanic provide evidence for the proper working condition of the vehicle systems specified in the type of inspection.\n\nA mechanical inspection is usually undertaken to ensure the safety or reliability of structures or machinery.\n\nIn Europe bodies involved in engineering inspection may be assessed by accreditation bodies according to ISO 17020 \"General criteria for the operation of various types of bodies performing inspection\". This standard defines inspection as \"examination of a product, process, service, or installation or their design and determination of its conformity with specific requirements or, on the basis of professional judgment, with general requirements\".\nNon-destructive examination (NDE) or nondestructive testing (NDT) is a family of technologies used during inspection to analyze materials, components and products for either inherent defects (such as fractures or cracks), or service induced defects (damage from use). Some common methods are visual, industrial computed tomography scanning, microscopy, dye penetrant inspection, magnetic-particle inspection, X-ray or radiographic testing, ultrasonic testing, eddy-current testing, acoustic emission testing, and thermographic inspection. In addition, many non-destructive inspections can be performed by a precision scale, or when in motion, a checkweigher. Stereo microscopes are often used for examining small products like circuit boards for product defects.\n\nInspection and technical assistance during turnarounds helps to decrease costly downtime as well as ensures restart of operations quickly and safely. \n\nA \"medical inspection\" is the thorough and unhurried visualization of a patient, this requires the use of the naked eye.\n\nAn examination vessel is a craft used to inspect ships entering or leaving a port during wartime.\n\nThe railroad's inspection locomotive were special types of steam locomotives designed to carry railroad officials on inspection tours of the railroad property.\n\nA property condition assessment is the examination for purposes of evaluating a commercial or business property's condition often as a part of a due diligence investigation for a company to know what it is buying. Building code officials do a building inspection to determine code compliance in new or altered buildings before issuing a certificate of occupancy. Residential inspections not for code compliance are called a home inspection. There are numerous types of more specific real estate and infrastructure inspections such as windstorm inspection, energy audit, and pipeline video inspection.\n\nSoftware inspection, in software engineering, refers to peer review of any work product by trained individuals who look for defects using a well defined process.\n\n"}
{"id": "1903848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1903848", "title": "Interactive Multimedia Association", "text": "Interactive Multimedia Association\n\nThe Interactive Multimedia Association (IMA) was an industry association which developed a set of audio algorithms. The most important is the ADPCM algorithm which is in use by Apple and Microsoft.\n\nThe Interactive Multimedia Association ceased operations around 1998. An archived copy of the document IMA Recommended Practices for Enhancing Digital Audio Compatibility in Multimedia Systems (version 3.0), which describes the IMA ADPCM algorithm, is available.\n\n"}
{"id": "43680209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43680209", "title": "Johari Abdul Ghani", "text": "Johari Abdul Ghani\n\nDatuk Seri Haji Johari bin Abdul Ghani (Jawi: جوهري بن عبدالغني) is a Malaysian politician. He was the Member of the Parliament of Malaysia for the seat of Titiwangsa in the Federal Territories of Kuala Lumpur for one term (2013–2018). He is a member of the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO), a major component party in Malaysia's opposition Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition.\n\nJohari was the Minister of Finance II (2016–2018). He is a qualified Chartered Accountant and he is a Fellow of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants.\n\nBorn and raised in the poor area of Kampung Pandan, Kuala Lumpur in 1964, Johari received his primary school education at Sekolah Rendah Kebangsaan Kampung Pandan (now known as SRK Tun Hussein Onn) from 1971 to 1976 and pursued his studies at Sekolah Menengah Aminuddin Baki in Kampung Pandan from 1977 until 1981. He continued his tertiary education at Institut Teknologi MARA (ITM), Shah Alam from 1982 until 1985 and obtained his Diploma in Accounting. He then furthered his accounting studies in the UK, which qualified him for membership to the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants in 1988 and awarded Fellowship of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants in 1993.\n\nJohari started his career at an international accounting firm, Peat Marwick & Co. (now known as KPMG) as an auditor. Johari was active in the corporate world for more than 25 years. He held several senior positions including Group Managing Director and Chairman in several companies, both listed and unlisted in the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange. He also held positions as Managing Directors of companies involved in the fast food industries, manufacturing and agriculture.\n\nJohari is active in various social and community services. He was appointed Chairman of ‘Jawatankuasa Pemakanan Negara’ at the Ministry of Agriculture and Agro-based Industry. He was also a member of ‘Lembaga Pelawat Hospital Kuala Lumpur’ and member of ‘Jawatankuasa Badan Amal & Aduan Rakyat Wilayah Persekutuan’.\n\nJohari sits on the Malaysia Economic Council. The Council, which is chaired by the Prime Minister of Malaysia, is responsible, among others, to formulate strategies to sustain the economic growth of Malaysia through foreign direct investment and domestic investments for the country and to monitor and analyze trends in the development of both global and domestic economy in order to formulate specific actions to spur the Malaysian economic growth.\n\nJohari is also a member of the Board of Directors of Khazanah Nasional Berhad, the sovereign wealth fund of the Government of Malaysia since 2016. He is also the Chairman of the Langkawi Development Authority (LADA), a government agency responsible for the development of the Langkawi Island as an international tourist destination. Johari was formerly the Chairman of UDA Holdings Berhad, a government linked company that is involved in urban development. Datuk Seri Johari is a member of the Board of Trustees for the Yayasan Pelaburan Bumiputera, the parent company of Permodalan Nasional Berhad which manages more than RM250 billion unit trust funds in Malaysia. Johari is active in the Yayasan Peneraju Pendidikan Bumiputera (YPPB) where he serves on the Board of Trustees. The YPPB is a strategic unit under the Prime Minister’s Office established to strengthen Bumiputeras’ capability and expertise in the economy and education.\n\nHe is a founder and currently the Chairman of Yayasan Bena Nusa and a Board Member of the Yayasan Pendidikan Titiwangsa, both of which were established to help to reduce urban poverty and improve educational outcomes for children of the urban poor.\n\nJohari has been active in politics for more than 24 years since 1988. He has held various positions in UMNO and BN of Titiwangsa. In June 2010, he was made the Acting Chief of UMNO’s Division of Titiwangsa and appointed as Barisan Nasional Coordinating Chairman for the Titiwangsa parliamentary constituency. Concerned with community issues raised by the Titiwangsa Parliament, he took the initiative to establish a Community Service Center in Titiwangsa in July 2010 to assist in addressing and resolving these issues. Amongst the major concerns of the Titiwangsa Parliament community were poverty, squatters’ settlement, infrastructure, vendors and others. The Community Service Center operated on Mondays to Fridays from 9.00 am to 5.00 pm.\n\nDuring the 2013 general election, he was chosen to contest and won the Titiwangsa parliamentary seat and on 27 July 2015, he was appointed as the Deputy Minister of Finance. Following a cabinet reshuffle on 27 June 2016, Johari was appointed as the Minister of Finance II.\n\nHowever, in the 2018 general election, Johari failed to retain the Titiwangsa parliamentary seat, losing by a 4,139-vote majority to Rina Harun, the Woman's Chief of the PPBM, a component party of Pakatan Harapan.\n\nIn recognition of his efforts in the areas of community, social, politics, corporate and business, he was conferred the Darjah Kebesaran Negeri Selangor (D.S.I.S) by Sultan Idris Shah of Selangor Sultan Sharifuddin which carries the title Dato’ in 2003. In 2005, he was conferred the Darjah Kebesaran Persekutuan Panglima Jasa Negara (P.J.N.) by the Agong XII Tuanku Syed Sirajuddin Ibni Al-Marhum Tuanku Syed Putra Jamalullail which carries the title Datuk. In 1 February 2017 he was conferred with Darjah Seri Mahkota Wilayah (S.M.W.) by the Agong XV Sultan Muhammad V which carries the title Datuk Seri.\n\n"}
{"id": "100478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100478", "title": "Jørgen Skafte Rasmussen", "text": "Jørgen Skafte Rasmussen\n\nJørgen Skafte Rasmussen (30 July 1878 – 12 August 1964) was a Danish engineer and industrialist.\n\nThe son of a shipmaster who died when Rasmussen was still a young child, he attended middle school in Nakskov and in 1894 began an apprenticeship in Copenhagen. His mother died when was 19, he then moved to Nykøbing where he continued his training employed by a local engine maker.\n\nIn 1898 Rasmussen moved to Germany in order to take classes in mechanical and electrical engineering at the \"Hochschule Mittweida\" university of applied sciences in Saxony. However, he was relegated two years later due to inadequate academic achievements and continued his studies at the newly established University of Applied Sciences of Zwickau where he took his exams in 1902. One year later he registered his first utility model (\"Gebrauchsmuster\") on a turning tool in Zwickau.\n\nRasmussen established the DKW motorcycle manufacturing factory Zschopauer Motorenwerke in 1921 and later automobile Framo. Rasmussen acquired a majority interest in Audi Automobilwerke in 1928, which four years later became Auto Union AG with the merger of Zschopauer Motorenwerke, Audi and others.\n\nThe Wall Street Crash of 1929 and the following Great Depression hit Rasmussen's businesses hard, as demand for motor-bikes and passenger cars slumped. In 1930 the Saxony Regional Bank, which had financed Rasmussen's business expansion in the 1920s, installed Richard Bruhn (1886 - 1964) on the board of Audi and there followed a brutal pruning and rationalization of the various auto-businesses that Rasmussen had accumulated. The outcome was the founding of Auto Union in Summer 1932 with just four component businesses, being Audi, DKW, Horch and the car producing piece of Wanderer. The Auto Union group rapidly grew to become Germany's second auto producer, behind only Opel in terms of passenger car market share. After World War II, DKW moved to West Germany, with the original factory becoming MZ.\n\nRasmussen remained on the board until 1934 when he was removed following \"differences\" with fellow board members. He then left Zwickau and purchased an estate at which today has become a district in Potsdam, and where he lived with his family till 1945. In 1945 he joined the flight from the Soviet army, relocating to Flensburg, and in 1947 he returned to Denmark. \n\nFrom 1947 he lived in Hareskovby, where in the 1950s he built motor-bikes under the DISA name. After his 75th birthday he and his wife moved to Copenhagen.\n"}
{"id": "7402928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7402928", "title": "L'Économiste", "text": "L'Économiste\n\nL'Économiste is a French-language business newspaper published in Morocco. The newspaper specializes in economic and financial news.\n\n\"L'Économiste\" was first published in 1998. The paper is based in Casablanca. It is the sister publication of Arabic daily \"Assabah\" and both are owned by Ecomedias. Although it is an independent paper, it has a pro-government stance.\n\n\"L'Économiste\" is published on weekdays and focuses on business news. Its website was launched in 1993, making \"L'Économiste\" the second newspaper to have an online edition. The paper is the recipient of the Victoires de la Presse award in the category of the scoop/article of the year.\n\nThe 2003 circulation of \"L'Économiste\" was 22,000 copies. It was 24,053 copies in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "14278460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14278460", "title": "Leilani Reklai", "text": "Leilani Reklai\n\nLeilani Reklai (born December 27, 1966) is a Palauan politician and businesswoman. She has served as the chaiperson of the board of directors of the Palau National Communications Corporation.\n\nLeilani Reklai was tentatively elected the governor of the state of Aimeliik in the state elections of November 13, 2007. Early results showed Reklai leading her opponent (and cousin), Abina Etpison, by just 35 votes. Reklai had 218 votes while Etpison, a Palauan legislator, had 183 votes. A total of 468 were cast in the Aimeliik election. 58 absentee ballots were still to be counted to determine the winner.\n\nLeilani Reklai became the first female governor of Aimeliik and only the third female governor in Palau's history. Palau's other two women governors were Governor Vicki Kanai of Airai State and Governor Akiko Sugiyama of Ngardmau.\n\n"}
{"id": "2003810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2003810", "title": "List of commercial failures in video gaming", "text": "List of commercial failures in video gaming\n\nAs a hit-driven business, the great majority of the video game industry's software releases have been commercial failures. In the early 21st century, industry commentators made these general estimates: 10% of published games generated 90% of revenue; that around 3% of PC games and 15% of console games have global sales of 100,000+ a year, with even this level insufficient to make high-budget titles profitable; and that about 20% of games make a profit.\n\nSome of these have drastically changed the video game market since its birth in the late 1970s. For example, the failures of \"E.T.\" and \"Pac-Man\" for the Atari 2600 contributed to the video game crash of 1983. Some games, despite being commercial failures, are well received by certain groups of gamers and are considered cult games. Many of these games live on through emulation.\n\nA commercial failure for a video game hardware platform is generally defined as a system that either fails to become adopted by a significant portion of the gaming marketplace or fails to win significant mindshare of the target audience, and may be characterized by significantly poor international sales and general financial unviability of development or support.\n\nCo-designed by R. J. Mical and the team behind the Amiga, and marketed by Electronic Arts founder Trip Hawkins, this \"multimedia machine\" released in 1993 was marketed as a family entertainment device and not just a video game console. Though it supported a vast library of games including many exceptional third party releases, a refusal to reduce pricing until almost the end of the product's life (699.95 USD at release) hampered sales.\nThe success of subsequent next generation systems led to the platform's demise and the company's exit from the hardware market. This exit also included The 3DO Company's sale of the platform's successor, the M2, to its investor Matsushita.\n\nIn 1990, Amstrad attempted to enter the console gaming market with hardware based on its successful Amstrad CPC range but also capable of playing cartridge-based games with improved graphics and sound. This comprised the Amstrad CPC+ computers, including the same features as the existing CPCs, and the dedicated GX4000 console. However, only a few months later the Mega Drive, a much-anticipated 16-bit console, was released in Europe, and the GX4000's aging 8-bit technology proved unable to compete. Many of the games were also direct ports of existing CPC games (available more cheaply on tape or disc) with few if any graphical improvements. Fewer than thirty games were released on cartridge, and the GX4000's failure ended Amstrad's involvement in the gaming industry. The CPC+ range fared little better, as 8-bit computers had been all but superseded by similarly priced 16-bit machines such as the Amiga, though software hacks now make the advanced console graphics and sound accessible to users.\n\nPippin is a game console designed by Apple Computer and produced by Bandai (now Bandai Namco) in the mid-1990s based around a PowerPC 603e processor and Classic Mac OS. It featured a 4x CD-ROM drive and a video output that could connect to a standard television monitor. Apple intended to license the technology to third parties; however, only two companies signed on, Bandai and Katz Media, while the only Pippin license to release a product to market was Bandai's. By the time the Bandai Pippin was released ( in Japan, in the United States), the market was already dominated by the Nintendo 64 and PlayStation. The Bandai Pippin also cost US$599 on launch, more expensive than the competition. Total sales were only around 30,000 units.\n\nThe Atari 5200 was created as the successor to the highly successful Atari 2600. Reasons for the console's poor reception include that most of the games were simply enhanced versions of those played on its predecessor and its awkward controller design. The console sold only a little over a million units. When it was discontinued, its predecessor would be marketed for several more years as would its successor, the Atari 7800 which was marketed more carefully to avoid a similar debacle. Nonetheless, the failure of the Atari 5200 marked the beginning of Atari's fall in the console business.\n\nReleased by Atari Corporation in 1993, this \"64-bit\" system was more powerful than its contemporaries, the Genesis and the Super NES (hence its \"Do the Math\" slogan); however, its sales were hurt by a lack of software and a number of crippling business practices on the part of Atari senior management. The controller was widely criticized as being too big and unwieldy, with a baffling number of buttons. The system never attained critical mass in the market before the release of the PlayStation and Sega Saturn, and without strong leadership to drive a recovery, it failed and brought the company down with it. Rob Bricken of Topless Robot described the Jaguar as \"an unfortunate system, beleaguered by software droughts, rushed releases, and a lot of terrible, terrible games.\"\n\nReleased in 1989 in North America and Europe; later in Japan in 1990 by Atari Corporation, The Lynx is an 8 bit handheld game console that holds the distinction of being the world's first handheld electronic game system with a color LCD. The Lynx was the second handheld game system to be released with the Atari name. The system was originally developed by Epyx as the Handy Game. The system is also notable for its forward-looking features, advanced graphics, and ambidextrous layout. In late 1991, it was reported that Atari sales estimates were about 800,000, which Atari claimed was within their expected projections. In comparison, the Game Boy sold 16 million units by later that year. Overall lifetime sales were confirmed as being in the region of 3 million, a commercial failure despite positive critical reviews. In 1996, Atari Corporation collapsed due to the failures of the Lynx and Jaguar consoles.\n\nThe Bally Astrocade is a second generation console created by Bally. It was released in 1977 but only through mail order. Due to weak sales, Bally quit the console business. Shortly afterward, another company purchased the rights to the console, and re-released it to weak sales again. Prominent games journalist Shaun Bradley described the Astrocade as \"Worse than The Room\".\n\nReleased only in Europe in 1990, the C64GS was basically a Commodore 64 redesigned as a cartridge-based console. Aside from some hardware issues, the console did not get much attention from the public, who preferred to buy the cheaper original computer that had far more possibilities. Also, the console appeared just as the 16-bit era was starting, which left no chance for it to succeed as it was unable to compete with consoles like the Super Nintendo Entertainment System and Mega Drive.\n\nThe CDTV was launched by Commodore in 1991. In common with the Philips CD-i and the 3DO, the CDTV was intended as an all-in-one home multimedia appliance that would play games, music, movies, and other interactive content. The name was short for \"Commodore Dynamic Total Vision\". The hardware was based on the Amiga computer with a single-speed CD-ROM drive rather than a floppy disk drive, in a case that was designed to integrate unobtrusively with a home entertainment center. However, the expected market for home multimedia appliances did not materialize, and the CDTV was discontinued in 1993, having sold only 30,000 units. Commodore's next attempt at a CD-based console, the Amiga CD32, was considerably more successful.\n\nThe digiBlast portable console was launched by Nikko at the end of 2005 and promised to be a cheap alternative (selling at approximately $117.86) to the Nintendo DS and PlayStation Portable. Cartridges for games, cartoon (\"Winx Club\", \"SpongeBob SquarePants\") episodes, and music videos were released on the handheld. A cartridge for MP3 playback and a cartridge with a 1.3-megapixel camera were released as add-ons. However, there was a shortage of chips around the release date and thereafter resulted in a failed launch and loss of consumer interest.\n\nThe Dreamcast, released globally in 1999, was Sega's final console before the company focused entirely on software. Although the console was initially successful and management in the company improved significantly after harsh lessons were learned from the Sega Saturn fiasco, the console also faced stiff competition from the technically superior PlayStation 2 despite being in the market months ahead. The Dreamcast sold less than the Saturn, coming in at 9.13 million units compared to the Saturn's 9.5 million. The console's development was subject to further stress by an economic recession that struck Japan shortly after the console's release, forcing Sega, among other companies, to cut costs to survive.\n\nThe Fairchild Channel F was a second generation console released in 1976, and the first home console unit to use interchangeable video game cartridges. When the Atari 2600, which also used cartridges, was released a year later, the console was completely overshadowed. Only 250,000 Channel F units were sold.\n\nThe FM Towns Marty is a fifth generation console manufactured by Fujitsu. Throughout its few years in the market, the console sold an underwhelming 45,000 units.\n\nThe Gizmondo, a handheld gaming device featuring GPS and a digital camera, was released by Tiger Telematics in the United Kingdom on 19 March 2005. With poor promotion, few games (only fourteen were ever released), short battery life, a small screen, competition from the cheaper and more reputable Nintendo DS, digiBlast and PSP, and controversy surrounding the company, the system was a commercial failure. On 23 January 2006, the UK arm of Tiger Telematics went into administration. Several high-ranking Tiger executives were subsequently arrested for fraud and other illegal activities related to the Gizmondo. It is so far the world's worst selling handheld console in history, and due to its failure in the European and American video game markets, it was not released in Australia or Japan. Tiger Telematics went bankrupt when it was discontinued in February 2006, just 11 months after it was released.\n\nReleased in late 2006 by Mattel, the HyperScan was the company's first video game console since the Intellivision. It used radio frequency identification (RFID) along with traditional video game technology. The console used UDF format CD-ROMs. Games retailed for $19.99 and the console itself for $69.99 at launch, but at the end of its very short lifespan, prices of the system were down to $9.99, the games $1.99, and booster packs $0.99. The system was sold in two varieties, a cube, and a 2-player value pack. The cube box version was the version sold in stores. It included the system, controller, an X-Men game disc, and 6 X-Men cards. Two player value packs were sold online (but may have been liquidated in stores) and included an extra controller and 12 additional X-Men cards. The system was discontinued in 2007 due to poor console, game, and card pack sales. It is featured as one of the ten worst systems ever by \"PC World\" magazine.\n\nReleased in Japan and Europe in 1994 and a year later in North America, the Neo Geo CD was first unveiled at the 1994 Tokyo Toy Show. Three versions of the Neo Geo CD were released: a front-loading version, only distributed in Japan, with 25,000 total units built; a top-loading version, marketed worldwide, as the most common model; the Neo Geo CDZ, an upgraded, faster-loading version, released in Japan only. The front-loading version was the original console design, with the top-loading version developed shortly before the Neo Geo CD launch as a scaled-down, cheaper alternative model. The CDZ was released on December 29, 1995 as the Japanese market replacement for SNK's previous efforts (the \"front loader\" and the \"top loader\"). The Neo Geo CD had met with limited success due to it being plagued with slow loading times that could vary from 30 to 60 seconds between loads, depending on the game. Although SNK's American home entertainment division quickly acknowledged that the system simply was unable to compete with the 3D-able powerhouse systems of the day like Nintendo's 64, Sega's Saturn and Sony's PlayStation, SNK corporate of Japan felt they could continue to maintain profitable sales in the Japanese home market by shortening the previous system's load-times. Their Japanese division had produced an excess number of single speed units and found that modifying these units to double speed was more expensive than they had initially thought, so SNK opted to sell them as they were, postponing production of a double speed model until they had sold off the stock of single speed units. As of March 1997, the Neo Geo CD had sold 570,000 units worldwide. Although this was the last known home console released under SNK's Neo Geo line, the newly reincarnated SNK Playmore relaunched the Neo Geo line with the release of the Neo Geo X in 2012.\n\nThe two handheld video game consoles, created by SNK Playmore (formerly SNK Corporation), were released between 1998-99 through markets dominated by Nintendo. The Neo Geo Pocket is considered to be an unsuccessful console, as it was immediately succeeded by the Color, a full color device allowing the system to compete more easily with the dominant Game Boy Color handheld, and which also saw a western release. Though the system enjoyed only a short life, there were some significant games released on the system. After a good sales start in both the U.S. and Japan with 14 launch titles (a record at the time) subsequent low retail support in the U.S., lack of communication with third-party developers by SNK's American management, the craze about Nintendo's \"Pokémon\" franchise, anticipation of the 32-bit Game Boy Advance, as well as strong competition from Bandai's WonderSwan in Japan, led to a sales decline in both regions. Meanwhile, SNK had been in financial trouble for at least a year – the company soon collapsed, and was purchased by American pachinko manufacturer Aruze in January 2000. Eventually on June 13, 2000, Aruze decided to quit the North American and European markets, marking the end of SNK's worldwide operations and the discontinuation of Neo Geo hardware and software there. The Neo Geo Pocket Color (and other SNK/Neo Geo products) did however, last until 2001 in Japan. It was SNK's last video game console, as the company went bust on October 22, 2001. Despite these failures, the Neo Geo Pocket and Pocket Color had been regarded as influential systems. It also featured an arcade-style microswitched 'clicky stick' joystick, which was praised for its accuracy and being well-suited for fighting games. The Pocket Color system's display and 40-hour battery life were also well received. Although these were the last known systems released under SNK's Neo Geo line, the newly reincarnated SNK Playmore relaunched the Neo Geo line with the release of the Neo Geo X in 2012.\n\nA disk drive add-on and Internet appliance for the Nintendo 64, it was first announced at 1995's Nintendo Shoshinkai game show event (now called Nintendo World); however, the 64DD was delayed until its release in Japan on December 1, 1999. Nintendo, anticipating poor sales, sold the 64DD through its Randnet subscription service rather than directly to retailers or consumers. As a result, the 64DD was only supported by Nintendo for a short period of time and only nine games were released for it. Most 64DD games were either canceled entirely, released as normal Nintendo 64 cartridges, or ported to other systems such as Nintendo's next-generation GameCube. During its lifetime, of a total of 100k sets, 15,000 sets were sold worldwide, while 85,000 sets became scrap.\n\nMade by the Finnish mobile phone manufacturer Nokia, and released in 2003, the N-Gage is a small handheld console, designed to combine a feature-packed mobile/cellular phone with a handheld games console. The system was mocked for its taco-like design, and sales were so poor that the system's price dropped by $100 within a week after its release. Common complaints included the difficulty of swapping games (the cartridge slot was located beneath the battery slot, requiring its removal) and the fact that its cellphone feature required users to hold the device \"sideways\" (i.e. the long edge of the system) against their cheek. A redesigned version, the N-Gage QD, was released to eliminate these complaints. However, the N-Gage brand still suffered from a poor reputation and the QD did not address the popular complaint that the control layout was \"too cluttered.\" The N-Gage failed to reach the popularity of the Game Boy Advance, Nintendo DS, or the Sony PSP. In November 2005, Nokia announced the failure of its product, in light of poor sales (fewer than three million units sold during the platform's three-year run, against projections of six million), and while gaming software is still being produced for its Series 60 phones, Nokia ceased to consider gaming a corporate priority until 2007, when it expected improved screen sizes and quality to increase demand. However, Nokia's presence in the cell phone market was soon eclipsed by the iPhone and later Android phones, causing development to gravitate to them and sealing the fate of the N-Gage brand. In 2012, Nokia abandoned development on the Symbian OS which was the base for N-Gage and transitioned to the Windows Phone.\n\nThe Nuon was a DVD decoding chip from VM Labs that was also a fully programmable CPU with graphics and sound capabilities. The idea was that a manufacturer could use the chip instead of an existing MPEG-2 decoder, thus turning a DVD player into a game console. A year after launch only eight games were available. One game, \"Iron Soldier 3\", was recalled for not being compatible with all systems.\n\nThe Ouya is an Android based microconsole released in 2013. Even though the Ouya was a success on Kickstarter, the product was plagued by problems from the beginning. The console was very slow to ship and suffered hardware issues. On top of this, the console had a very limited library of games. The critical reception ranged from lukewarm to outright calling the console a 'scam'. Just two years after its release, the Ouya was in a dire financial situation and negotiated a buyout with Razer.\n\nThe PC-FX is the Japan-exclusive successor to the PC Engine, released by NEC in late 1994. Originally intended to compete with the Super Famicom and the Mega Drive, it instead wound up competing with the PlayStation, Sega Saturn, and Nintendo 64. The console's 32-bit architecture was created in 1992, and by 1994 it was outdated, largely due to the fact that it was unable to create 3D images, instead utilizing an architecture that relied on JPEG video. The PC-FX was severely underpowered compared to other fifth generation consoles and had a very low budget marketing campaign, with the system never managing to gain a foothold against its competition or a significant part of the marketshare. The PC-FX was discontinued in early 1998 so that NEC could focus on providing graphics processing units for the upcoming Sega Dreamcast. Around this time, NEC announced that they had only sold 100,000 units with a library of only 62 titles, most of which were dating sims.\n\nIn 1991, electronics company Philips entered the console gaming business by creating the \"Compact Disc Interactive\" console, better known as the \"CD-i\". Like the 3DO, the CD-i was marketed as not only a video game console, but also a multimedia console. Besides CD-i discs, the console was capable of playing Video CDs. The launch price was $700. It was originally intended to be an add-on for the Super NES, but the deal fell through. Nintendo, however, did give Philips the rights and permission to use five Nintendo characters for the CD-i games. In 1993, Philips released two Zelda games, \"\" and \"\". A year later, Philips released another Zelda game, \"Zelda's Adventure\", and a few months later, a Mario game titled \"Hotel Mario\". All four of these Nintendo-themed games are commonly cited by critics as being among the worst ever made. Much criticism was also aimed at the CD-i's controller. Although it was extensively marketed by Philips, consumer interest remained low. Sales began to slow by 1994, and in 1998, Philips announced that the product had been discontinued. In all, roughly 570,000 units were sold, with 133 games released.\n\nMade by the Pioneer LaserDisc Corporation in 1993 (a clone was produced by NEC as well), the LaserActive employed the trademark LaserDiscs as a medium for presenting games and also played the original LaserDisc movies. The LD-ROMs, as they were called, could hold 540 MB of data and up to 60 minutes of analog audio and video. In addition, expansion modules could be bought which allowed the LaserActive to play Genesis and/or TurboGrafx-16 games, among other things. Very poor marketing combined with a high price tag for both the console itself ($969 in 1993) and the various modules (e.g., $599 for the Genesis module compared to $89 for the base console and $229 for Sega CD add-on to play CD-ROM based games) caused it to be quickly ignored by both the gaming public and the gaming press. Less than 40 games were produced in all (at about $120 each), almost all of which required the purchase of one of the modules, and games built for one module could not be used with another. The LaserActive was quietly discontinued one year later after total sales of roughly 10,000 units.\n\nBuilt upon the PlayStation 2, the PSX enhanced multimedia derivative was touted to bring convergence to the living room in 2003 by including non-gaming features such as a DVD recorder, TV tuner, and multi-use hard drive. The device was considered a failure upon its Japanese release due to its high price and lack of consumer interest, which resulted in the cancellation of plans to release it in the rest of the world. Not only was it an unsuccessful attempt by Sony Computer Entertainment head Ken Kutaragi to revive the ailing consumer electronics division, it also hurt Sony's media convergence plans.\n\nUnveiled by Sega at June 1994's Consumer Electronics Show, the 32X was later described as the \"poor man's entry into 'next generation' games.\" The product was originally conceived as an entirely new console by Sega Enterprises and positioned as an inexpensive alternative for gamers into the 32-bit era, but at the suggestion of Sega of America research and development head Joe Miller, the console was converted into an add-on to the existing Mega Drive/Genesis and made more powerful, with two 32-bit central processing unit chips and a 3D graphics processor. Despite these changes, the console failed to attract either developers or consumers as the Sega Saturn had already been announced for release the next year. In part because of this, and also to rush the 32X to market before the holiday season in 1994, the 32X suffered from a poor library of titles, including Mega Drive/Genesis ports with improvements to the number of colors that appeared on screen. Originally released at US$159, Sega dropped the price to $99 in only a few months and ultimately cleared the remaining inventory at $19.95. About 665,000 units were sold.\n\nThe Nomad, a handheld game console by Sega released in North America in October 1995, is a portable variation of Sega's home console, the Genesis (known as the Mega Drive outside of North America). Designed from the Mega Jet, a portable version of the home console designed for use on airline flights in Japan, Nomad served to succeed the Game Gear and was the last handheld console released by Sega. Released late in the Genesis era, the Nomad had a short lifespan. Sold exclusively in North America, the Nomad was never officially released worldwide, and employs regional lockout. The handheld itself was incompatible with several Genesis peripherals, including the Power Base Converter, the Sega CD, and the Sega 32X. The release was five years into the market span of the Genesis, with an existing library of more than 500 Genesis games. With the Nomad's late release several months after the launch of the Saturn, this handheld is said to have suffered from its poorly timed launch. Sega decided to stop focusing on the Genesis in 1999, several months before the release of the Dreamcast, by which time the Nomad was being sold at less than a third of its original price. Reception for the Nomad is mixed between its uniqueness and its poor timing into the market. Blake Snow of GamePro listed the Nomad as fifth on his list of the \"10 Worst-Selling Handhelds of All Time,\" criticizing its poor timing into the market, inadequate advertising, and poor battery life.\n\nThe Sega Saturn was the successor to the Genesis as a 32-bit fifth-generation console, released in Japan in November 1994 and in Western markets mid-1995. The console was designed as a competitor to Sony's PlayStation, released nearly at the same time. With the system selling well in Japan and Sega wanting to get a head start over the PlayStation in North America, the company decided to release the system in May instead of September 1995, which was the same time the PlayStation was going to be released in North America. This left little time to promote the product and limited quantities of the system available at retail. Sega's release strategy also backfired when, shortly after Sega's announcement, Sony announced the price of the PlayStation as being $100 less than the list price for the Saturn. The console also suffered from behind the scenes management conflicts and a lack of coordination between the Japanese and North American branches of the company, leading to the Saturn to be released shortly after the release of the 32X, which created distribution and retail problems. By the end of 1996, the PlayStation had sold 2.9 million units in the U.S., more than twice the 1.2 million units sold by the Saturn. With the added competition from the subsequent release of the Nintendo 64, the Saturn lost market share in North America and was discontinued by 1999. With lifetime sales estimated at 9.5 million units worldwide, the Saturn is considered a commercial failure. The failure of Sega's development teams to release a game in the \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" series, known in development as \"Sonic X-treme\", has been considered a factor in the console's poor performance. The impact of the failure of the Saturn carried over into Sega's next console, the Dreamcast. However, the console gained interest in Japan and was not officially discontinued until January 4, 2001.\n\nThe uDraw GameTablet is a graphics tablet developed by THQ for use on seventh generation gaming consoles, which was initially released for the Wii in late 2010. Versions for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 were released in late 2011. THQ also invested in several games that would uniquely use the tablet, such as \"uDraw Pictionary\". The Wii version had positive sales, with more than 1.7 million units sold, prompting the introduction of the unit for the other console systems. These units did not share the same popularity; 2011 holiday sales in North America fell $100 million below company targets with more than 1.4 million units left unsold by February 2012. THQ commented that if they had not attempted to sell these versions of uDraw, the company would have been profitable that respective quarter, but instead suffered an overall $56 million loss. Because of this failure, THQ was forced to shelve some of its less-successful franchises, such as the \"Red Faction\" series. THQ would eventually file for bankruptcy and sell off its assets in early 2013.\n\nThis is perhaps the most critically acclaimed \"failure\" console. Though its independent monitor could display only monochrome visuals, the console's vector-based graphics and arcade-style controller with analog joystick allowed developers to create a strong games library with faithful conversions of arcade hits and critically praised exclusives. However, its release shortly before the North American video game crash of 1983 doomed it to an early grave.\n\n This red monochromatic 3-D \"virtual reality\" system failed due to issues related to players getting eye strain, stiff necks, and headaches when trying to play it, along with the console's price and unportability. It came out in 1995 and was Nintendo's first failed console release. Gunpei Yokoi, the designer of the platform and the person largely credited for the success of the original Game Boy handheld and the \"Metroid\" series of games, resigned from the company shortly after the Virtual Boy ceased sales in order to start his own company, although for reasons unrelated to the console's success. The Virtual Boy was included in a \"Time\" \"50 Worst Inventions\" list published in May 2010.\n\nNintendo's Wii U was released in November 2012. It was designed as successor to the Wii as to provide a more challenging experience as to draw back \"core\" gamers that had dismissed the Wii as they felt it was aimed for casual gameplay. The Wii U features the Wii U GamePad, the unit's primary controller that had a touchscreen that allowed for dual-screen play similar to the Nintendo DS line, or could be used to remotely play games on the GamePad away from the television screen. While the Wii U received positive coverage, it failed to gain significant consumer draw, selling less than 14 million units compared to the Wii's 101 million units by the end of 2016. Nintendo executives attributed the poor sales of the Wii U to a combination of factors. They felt their messaging of the Wii U's abilities was not clear, leading to a general perception that the unit was primarily a tablet system and not a home console or an add-on to the original Wii. They also recognized that they did not manage their release schedule for games well, nor had significant support from third-party publishers and developers, leaving the Wii U with gaps in software releases. Nintendo stated they had expected to sell 100 million Wii U units, and this over-estimation of sales contributed to several financial quarters of losses through 2016, making the Wii U a commercial failure. The development and marketing of their next console, the Nintendo Switch, was intended to avoid several of the pitfalls that occurred for the Wii U; with the change in approach, the Switch outsold the lifetime sales of the Wii U within nine months of its release. The Wii U was discontinued in January 2017.\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of software that have been deemed commercial failures by industry sources.\n\n\"APB: All Points Bulletin\" was a multiplayer online game developed by Realtime Worlds in 2010. The game, incorporating concepts from their previous title \"Crackdown\" and past work by its lead developer David Jones, who had helped create the \"Grand Theft Auto\" series, was set around the idea of a large-scale urban battle between Enforcers and Criminals; players would be able to partake in large-scale on-going missions between the two sides. The game was originally set as both a Microsoft Windows and Xbox 360 title and as Realtime Worlds' flagship title for release in 2008, but instead the company set about developing \"Crackdown\" first, and later focused \"APB\" as a Windows-only title, potentially porting the game to the Xbox 360 later. Upon launch in June 2010, the game received lukewarm reviews, hampered by the existence of a week-long review embargo, and did not attract the expected number of subscribers to maintain its business model. Realtime Worlds, suffering from the commercial failure of the game, sold off a second project, Project MyWorld, and subsequently reduced its operations to administration and a skeleton crew to manage the \"APB\" servers while they attempted to find a buyer, including possibly Epic Games who had expressed interest in the title. However, without any acceptable offers, the company was forced to shut down \"APB\" in September 2010. Eventually, the game was sold to K2 Network, a company that has brought other Asian massive-multiplayer online games to the Western markets as free-to-play titles, and similar changes occurred to \"APB\" when it was relaunched by K2.\n\nOne of the most notorious PC gaming failures, \"Battlecruiser 3000AD\" (shortened \"BC3K\") was hyped for almost a decade before its disastrous release in the U.S. and Europe. The game was the brainchild of Derek Smart, an independent game developer renowned for lengthy and aggressive online responses to perceived criticism. The concept behind \"BC3K\" was ambitious, giving the player the command of a large starship with all the requisite duties, including navigation, combat, resource management, and commanding crew members. Advertisements appeared in the gaming press in the mid-1990s hyping the game as, \"The Last Thing You'll Ever Desire.\" Computer bulletin boards and Usenet groups were abuzz with discussion about the game. As time wore on and numerous delays were announced, excitement turned to frustration in the online community. Smart exacerbated the negative air by posting liberally on Usenet. The posts ignited one of the largest flame wars in Usenet history. During the development cycle, Smart refused to let other programmers have full access to his code and continued to change directions as new technology became available, causing the game to be in development for over seven years.\n\nIn November 1996, Take-Two Interactive finally released the game, reportedly over protests from Smart. The game was buggy and only partially finished, with outdated graphics, MIDI music, a cryptic interface, and almost no documentation. Critics and the gaming community reacted poorly to the release. Eventually, a stable, playable version of the game was released as \"Battlecruiser 3000AD v2.0\". Smart eventually released \"BC3K\" as freeware and went on to create several sequels under the \"Battlecruiser\" and \"Universal Combat\" titles. \n\nAlthough critically acclaimed and planned as the first part of a trilogy, \"Beyond Good & Evil\" (released in 2003) flopped commercially. Former Ubisoft employee Owen Hughes stated that it was felt that the simultaneous releases of internationally competing titles \"Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell\" and \"\" and in Europe, \"XIII\" (all three published by Ubisoft and all of which had strong brand identity in their markets), made an impact on \"Beyond Good & Evil\"s ability to achieve interest with the public. The game's commercial failure led Ubisoft to postpone plans for any subsequent titles in the series. A sequel was announced at the end of the Ubidays opening conference, and an HD version of the original was released for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 via download in 2011. Alain Corre, Ubisoft's Executive Director of EMEA Territories, commented that the Xbox 360 release \"did extremely well\", but considered this success \"too late\" to make a difference in the game's poor sales. Despite this, \"Beyond Good & Evil 2\" was announced at Ubisoft's press conference at E3 2017, fourteen years after the release of the original game.\n\n\"Brütal Legend\" is Double Fine Productions' second major title. The game is set in a world based on heavy metal music, includes a hundred-song soundtrack across numerous metal subgenres, and incorporates a celebrity voice cast including Jack Black, Lemmy Kilmister, Rob Halford, Ozzy Osbourne, Lita Ford, and Tim Curry. The game was originally to be published by Vivendi Games via Sierra Entertainment prior to its merger with Activision. Following the merger, Activision declined to publish \"Brütal Legend\", and Double Fine turned to Electronic Arts as their publishing partner, delaying the game's release. Activision and Double Fine counter-sued each other for breach of contract, ultimately settling out of court. The game was designed as an action adventure/real-time strategy game similar to \"Herzog Zwei\"; as games in the real-time strategy genre generally do not perform well on consoles, Double Fine was told by both Vivendi and Electronic Arts to avoid stating this fact and emphasize other elements of the game. Despite positive reviews from critics, the game got criticized for its real-time strategy elements that were not mentioned within the pre-release marketing, making it a difficult game to sell to players. Furthermore, its late-year release in October 2009 buried the title among many top-tier games, including \"Uncharted 2\", \"\" and \"\". It only sold about 215,000 units within the first month, making it a \"retail failure\", and though Double Fine had begun on a sequel, Electronic Arts cancelled further development. According to Tim Schafer, president and lead developer of Double Fine, 1.4 million copies of the game had been sold by February 2011.\n\n\"Conker's Bad Fur Day\" is a 3D platformer by Rare for the Nintendo 64. In it, the player controls Conker, a greedy, hard-drinking squirrel, through levels. While it is visually similar to Rare's previous games like \"Banjo-Kazooie\" and \"Donkey Kong 64\", \"Conker's Bad Fur Day\" is aimed at mature audiences and features profanity, graphic violence, and off-color humor. The game was originally designed to be family-friendly, but was retooled after prerelease versions of the game were criticized for their similarities to Rare's previous games. Despite receiving critical acclaim, \"Conker's Bad Fur Day\" performed well below expectations, with only 55,000 copies sold by April 2001. Numerous reasons have been cited for the game's perceived failure to connect with audiences, such as its high cost, advertisements exclusive to the older audience, and its release towards the end of the Nintendo 64's life cycle. Nintendo, which held a minority stake in Rare at the time, also did not actively promote the game.\n\nOne of the more infamous failures in modern PC gaming was \"Daikatana\", which was drastically hyped due to creator John Romero's popular status as one of the key designers behind \"Doom\". However, after being wrought with massive over-spending and serious delays, the game finally launched to incredibly poor critical reaction because of bugs, lackluster enemies, poor gameplay, and terrible production values, all of which were made worse by its heavy marketing campaign proclaiming it as the next \"big thing\" in first person shooters.\n\nThe first title released by Ion Storm, \"Dominion\" was a real time strategy title similar to \"Command & Conquer\" and \"Warcraft\", based as a spin-off to the \"G-Nome\" canon. The game was originally developed by 7th Level, but was purchased by Ion Storm for US$1.8 million. The project originally had a budget of US$50,000 and was scheduled to be finished in three months with two staff members. Due to mismanagement and Ion Storm's inexperience, the project took over a year, costing hundreds of thousands of dollars. \"Dominion\" was released in July 1998. It received bad reviews and sold poorly, falling far short of recouping its purchase price, let alone the cost of finishing it. The game divided employees working on Ion's marquee title, \"Daikatana\", arguably leading to the walkout of several key development team members. It put a strain on Ion Storm's finances, leading the once well-funded startup to scramble for cash as \"Daikatana\"'s development extended over several years.\n\n\"Duke Nukem Forever\" was an entry in the successful \"Duke Nukem\" series, initially announced in 1997, but spent fifteen years in development, and was frequently listed as a piece of vaporware video game software. The initial development with the Quake II Engine began in 1996, and the final game was developed by Gearbox Software, developers of the \"Borderlands\" series, and released in 2011. The game was heavily criticized and was named by several sites as their \"most disappointing\" game for the year. Because of its tangled development process, it is very hard to know which companies made and which lost money over the game. According to Gearbox head Randy Pitchford, the game cost 3D Realms head George Broussard US$20–30 million of his own money. The sales were poorer than expected, causing Take-Two to reduce their profit estimate for the quarter, though later in 2011 stated that \"Duke Nukem Forever\" would prove to be profitable for the company.\n\nA sequel to the successful Wii-exclusive platformer \"Epic Mickey\", \"Epic Mickey 2: The Power of Two\" was developed by Junction Point Studios and published by Disney Interactive Studios for the Wii, Wii U, Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita and Microsoft Windows. Despite being heavily advertised and being released on multiple consoles, \"Epic Mickey 2\" only sold 270,000 copies in North America, barely a quarter of the original's sales of 1.3 million. The game's failure led to the shutdown of Junction Point and the cancellation of future entries in the \"Epic Mickey\" series.\n\nBased on Steven Spielberg's popular 1982 movie of the same name and reportedly coded in just five weeks, this Atari 2600 game was rushed to the market for the 1982 holiday season.\n\nDespite selling 1.5 million copies, the sales figures came nowhere near Atari's expectations; it had ordered production of five million copies, and many of the sold games were returned to Atari for refunds by consumers who were dissatisfied with the game. It had become an urban legend that Atari had dumped the unsold cartridges of \"E.T.\" and other games in a landfill in Alamogordo, New Mexico; this was confirmed in 2014 when the site was allowed to be excavated, with former Atari personnel affirming they had dumped about 800,000 cartridges total including \"E.T.\" and other poorly-selling (and best-selling) games. The financial figures and business tactics surrounding this product are emblematic of the video game crash of 1983 and contributed to Atari's bankruptcy. Atari paid $25 million for the license to produce the game, which further contributed to a debt of $536 million (equivalent to $ billion today). The company was divided and sold in 1984.\n\nKnown for being the first adventure game by LucasArts to use three-dimensional graphics, \"Grim Fandango\" received positive reviews and won numerous awards. It was originally thought that the game sold well during the holiday season. However, the game's sales appeared to be crowded out by other titles released during the late 1998 season, including \"Half-Life\", \"Metal Gear Solid\" and \"\". Based on data provided by PC Data (now owned by NPD Group), the game sold about 95,000 copies up to 2003 in North America, excluding online sales. Worldwide sales are estimated between 100,000 and 500,000 units. Developer Tim Schafer along with others of the \"Grim Fandango\" development team would leave LucasArts after this project to begin a new studio (Double Fine Productions). \"Grim Fandango\"s relatively modest sales are often cited as a contributing factor to the decline of the adventure game genre in the late 1990s, though the title's reputation as a \"flop\" is to an extent a case of perception over reality, as Schafer has pointed out that the game turned a profit, with the royalty check he eventually received being proof. His perspective is that the adventure genre did not so much lose its audience as fail to grow it while production costs continued to rise. This made adventure games less attractive an investment for publishers; in contrast, the success of first-person shooters caused the console market to boom. The emergence of new distribution channels that did not rely on the traditional retail model would ultimately re-empower the niche genre. Double Fine has since remastered the game for high definition graphics and re-released it through these channels.\n\nAlthough reviews for \"Jazz Jackrabbit 2\" were positive, sales were insufficient and resulted in a loss for its publisher Gathering of Developers. This prevented the developers from finding a publisher, thus leading to the cancelation of \"Jazz Jackrabbit 3\" which could have been the franchise's first 3D game.\n\nReleased in 1997 after five years in development, this $6 million adventure game was the brainchild of Jordan Mechner, the creator of \"Prince of Persia\". The game was noted for taking place in almost complete real-time, using Art Nouveau-style characters that were rotoscoped from a 22-day live-action video shoot, and featuring intelligent writing and levels of character depth that were not often seen in computer games. Despite rave reviews, Brøderbund, the game's publisher, did little to promote the game, apart from a brief mention in a press release and enthusiastic statements by Brøderbund executives, in part due to the entire Brøderbund marketing team quitting in the weeks before its release. Released in April, the game was not a success, selling only about 100,000 copies, a million copies short of breaking even.\n\nAfter the release of the game, Mechner's company Smoking Car Productions quietly folded, and Brøderbund was acquired by The Learning Company, who were only interested in Brøderbund's educational software, effectively putting the game out of print which also caused the PlayStation port to be cancelled after almost being finished for a 1998 release. Mechner was later able to reacquire the rights to the game, and in 2012, worked with DotEmu to release an iOS port of the title, before making it to Android as well.\n\n\"MadWorld\" is a beat 'em up title for the Wii developed by PlatinumGames and distributed by Sega in March 2009. The game was purposely designed as an extremely violent video game. The game features a distinctive black-and-white graphic style that borrows from both Frank Miller's \"Sin City\" and other Japanese and Western comics. This monotone coloring is only broken by blood that comes from attacking and killing foes in numerous, gruesome, and over-the-top manners. Though there had been violent games available for the Wii from the day it was launched (e.g. \"Red Steel\"), many perceived \"MadWorld\" as one of the first mature titles for the system, causing some initial outrage from concerned consumers about the normally family-friendly system. \"MadWorld\" was well received by critics, but this did not translate into commercial sales; only 123,000 units of the game sold in the United States during its first six months on the market. Sega considered these sales to be \"disappointing\". Regardless, the game's critical success allowed a pseudo-sequel, \"Anarchy Reigns\", to be produced.\n\n\"Marvel vs. Capcom: Infinite\" is the sixth main installment in Capcom's \"Marvel vs. Capcom\" series of fighting games that pits Capcom and Marvel's famous characters against each other. When the game was shown at E3 2017, some of the character designs were poorly received, particularly Chun-Li and Dante. The game was also criticized for its lack of X-Men or Fantastic Four characters. Capcom projected that the game would sell 2 million units by December 31, 2017. The game launched with a poor showing thanks to the game having a low-budget, which would cause \"Marvel vs. Capcom: Infinite\" to generate only half of the projected amount that Capcom gave. \"Marvel vs. Capcom: Infinite\"'s failing would lead to cancellation of DLC, and its exclusion from tournaments such as Evo 2018, as well as Capcom being quiet surrounding the title.\n\n\"Ōkami\" was a product of Clover Studios with direction by Hideki Kamiya, previously known for his work on the \"Resident Evil\" and \"Devil May Cry\" series. The game is favorably compared to a \"Zelda\"-type adventure, and is based on the quest of the goddess-wolf Amaterasu using a \"celestial brush\" to draw in magical effects on screen and to restore the cursed land of ancient Nippon. Released first in 2006 on the PlayStation 2, it later received a port to the Wii system, where the brush controls were reworked for the motion controls of the Wii Remote. The game was well received by critics, with Metacritic aggregate scores of 93% and 90% for the PlayStation 2 and Wii versions, respectively, and was considered one of the best titles for 2006; IGN named it their Game of the Year. Despite strong praise from critics, the game sold fewer than 600,000 units by March 2009. These factors have led for \"Ōkami\" to be called the \"least commercially successful winner of a game of the year award\" in the 2010 version of the \"Guinness World Records Gamer's Edition\". Shortly after its release, Capcom disbanded Clover Studios, though many of its employees went on to form PlatinumGames and produce \"Madworld\" and the more successful \"Bayonetta\". Strong fan support of the game led to a sequel, \"Ōkamiden\", on the Nintendo DS, a high-definition remake for the PlayStation 3, and a remaster for the PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch and Microsoft Windows.\n\n The home version of the highly popular \"Pac-Man\" arcade game was eagerly anticipated, but was a commercial disappointment for Atari despite being a best-selling game. The game was rushed to make the 1981 Christmas season. In 1982, Atari created 12 million cartridges, even though there were only 10 million Atari 2600s sold at the time, in hopes of the game boosting system sales. \"Pac-Man\" did sell close to seven million cartridges, but consumers and critics alike gave it low ratings. The high number of unsold units (over five million), coupled with the expense of a large marketing campaign, led to large losses for Atari. This game and \"E.T.\" are often blamed for sparking the video game crash of 1983. Shortly after the disappointment of \"Pac-Man\", Atari reported a huge quarterly loss, prompting parent company Warner Communications to sell the division off in 1984. Atari never regained a prominent position in the home console market.\n\nDespite achieving notable critical success, including GameSpot's 2005 \"Best Game No One Played\" award, \"Psychonauts\" sold fewer than 100,000 copies during its initial release. The game led to troubles at publisher Majesco Entertainment, including the resignation of its CEO and the plummeting of the company's stock, prompting a class-action lawsuit by the company's stockholders. At the time of its release in 2005, the game was considered the \"poster child\" for failures in innovative games. Its poor sales have also been blamed on a lack of marketing. However, today the game remains a popular title on various digital download services. The creator of \"Psychonauts\", Tim Schafer, has a cult following due to his unique and eccentric style. Eventually, Double Fine would go on to acquire the full rights to publishing the game, and, with funding from Dracogen, created a Mac OS X and Linux port of the game, which was sold as part of a Humble Bundle in 2012 with nearly 600,000 bundles sold; according to Schafer, \"We made more on \"Psychonauts\" [in 2012] than we ever have before.\" In August 2015, Steam Spy estimated approximately 1,157,000 owners of the game on the digital distributor Steam.\n\n\"Shenmue\" on the Dreamcast is more notorious for its overambitious budget than its poor sales figures. At the time of release in 1999, the game had the record for the most expensive production costs (over US$70 million), and its five-year production time. In comparison, the games' total sale was 1.2 million copies. \"Shenmue\", however, was a critical hit, earning an average review score of 89%. The game was supposed to be the initial installment of a trilogy. The second installment was eventually released in 2001, but by this time the Dreamcast was floundering, so the game only saw a release in Japan and Europe. Sega eventually released it for North American players for the Xbox, but the poor performance of both titles combined with restructuring have made Sega reluctant to complete the trilogy for fear of failure to return on the investment. However, a Kickstarter campaign has received record support for a third title, with a release originally set for 2018, now scheduled for sometime in 2019. In the meantime, the first two titles will be re-released for PC and PlayStation 4 to re-acclimate players in preparation for the third title's release.\n\n\"Sonic Boom: Rise of Lyric\" is a spin-off from the \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" series, released in 2014 and developed by Big Red Button Entertainment and IllFonic for Sega and Sonic Team, along with its handheld counterpart \"\", which was developed by Sanzaru Games. \"Rise of Lyric\" for the Wii U is considered one of the worst video games of all time due to many glitches, poor gameplay and weak writing. Both games failed commercially, selling only 490,000 copies as of February 2015, making them the lowest-selling games in the \"Sonic\" franchise.\n\n\"Sonic Runners\" was a \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" game for Android and iOS. A side-scrolling endless runner, it was Sonic Team's first \"Sonic\" game that was exclusive to smartphones. It was soft launched in select regions in February 2015 and officially released worldwide in June 2015 to mixed reviews. Although it was downloaded over five million times, the game's publisher, Sega, considered it a commercial failure because it only made between ¥30—50 million a month. As a result, it was discontinued in July 2016. \"Nintendo Life\" wrote its failure was proof that the recognizability of a brand does not guarantee success.\n\n\"Sunset\", a first-person exploration adventure game involving a housekeeper working for a dictator of a fictional country, was developed by two-person Belgian studio Tale of Tales, who previously had created several acclaimed arthouse style games and other audio-visual projects such as \"The Path\". They wanted to make \"Sunset\" a \"game for gamers\" while still retaining their arthouse-style approach, and in addition to planning on a commercial release, used Kickstarter to gain funding. \"Sunset\" only sold about 4000 copies on its release, including those to Kickstarter backers. Tale of Tales opted to close their studio after sinking the company's finances into the game, and believed that if they did release any new games in the future, they would likely shy away from commercial release.\n\nThe fourth game in the popular \"Myst\" series, released in 2003. It was developed by Cyan Worlds shortly after \"Riven\" was completed. The game took Cyan Worlds more than five years and $12 million to complete and was codenamed DIRT (\"D'ni in real time\"), then MUDPIE (meaning \"Multi-User DIRT, Persistent / Personal Interactive Entertainment / Experience / Exploration / Environment\"). Though it had generally positive reception, the sales were disappointing. In comparison, the first three \"Myst\" games had sold more than 12 million units collectively before \"Uru\"s release. \"Uru\"s poor sales were also considered a factor in financially burdening Cyan, contributing to the company's near closure in 2005.\n\nReleased by Atari in 1983, \"I, Robot\" was the first video game to use 3-D polygon graphics, and the first that allowed the player to change camera angles. It also had gameplay that rewarded planning and stealth as much as reflexes and trigger speed, and included a non-game mode called \"Doodle City,\" where players could make artwork using the polygons. Production estimates vary, but all agree that there were no more than 1500 units made.\n\nIn 1982, the President of Cinematronics arranged a one-time purchase of 5000 printed circuit boards from Japan. The boards were used in the manufacture of several games, but the majority of them were reserved for the new arcade game \"Jack the Giantkiller\", based on the classic fairy tale \"Jack and the Beanstalk\". Between the purchase price of the boards and other expenses, Cinematronics invested almost two million dollars into \"Jack the Giantkiller\". It completely flopped in the arcade and many of the boards went unsold, costing the company a huge amount of money at a time when it was already having financial difficulties.\n\n\"Radar Scope\" was one of the first arcade games released by Nintendo. It was released in Japan first, and a brief run of success there led Nintendo to order 3,000 units for the American market in 1980. American operators were unimpressed, however, and Nintendo of America was stuck with about 2,000 unsold \"Radar Scope\" machines sitting in the warehouse.\n\nFacing a potential financial disaster, Nintendo assigned the game's designer, Shigeru Miyamoto, to revamp the game. Instead he designed a brand new game that could be run in the same cabinets and on the same hardware as \"Radar Scope\". That new game was the smash hit \"Donkey Kong\", and Nintendo was able to recoup its investment in 1981 by converting the remaining unsold \"Radar Scope\" units to \"Donkey Kong\" and selling those.\n\n\"Sundance\" was an arcade vector game, released in 1979. Producer Cinematronics planned to manufacture about 1000 \"Sundance\" units, but sales suffered from a combination of poor gameplay and an abnormally high rate of manufacturing defects. The fallout rate in production was about 50%, the vector monitor (made by an outside vendor) had a defective picture tube that would arc and burn out if the game was left in certain positions during shipping, and according to programmer Tim Skelly, the circuit boards required a lot of cut-and-jumpering between mother and daughter boards that also made for a very fragile setup. The units that survived to reach arcade floors were not a hit with gamers—Skelly himself reportedly felt that the gameplay lacked the \"anxiety element\" necessary in a good game and asked Cinematronics not to release it, and in an April 1983 interview with \"Video Games\" Magazine he referred to \"Sundance\" as \"a total dog\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4767245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4767245", "title": "Loren M. Berry", "text": "Loren M. Berry\n\nLoren Murphy Berry (July 24, 1888 – February 10, 1980) was born in Wabash, Indiana, the son of Charles D. and Elizebeth (Murphy) Berry. He was a pioneer in the Yellow Pages business telephone directory industry.\n\nHis father died when Loren was four years old. His mother worked as a maternity nurse and seamstress, among other jobs, to support herself and Loren. At age eight, Berry prepared and sold horseradish, and had newspaper and laundry routes. In high school, he was a reporter for the Wabash \"Plain Dealer\" and was sports editor and business manager for his school’s monthly publication. As business manager, he gained experience selling advertising space. While selling advertising for timetables that served interurban railroads, Berry was asked by the manager of a telephone company to sell advertising space in the company’s directory. \n\nIn 1910, Loren and his wife Lucille moved to Dayton, Ohio, and, on a shoestring budget, began The Ohio Guide Company, printing timetables. He recognized the opportunities for Yellow Pages and soon concentrated on a telephone directory operation that, as L. M. Berry and Company, developed into a coast-to-coast enterprise and became one of the foremost telephone directory publishers in the United States, handling one out of every four telephone directories in the United States.\n\nHis wife Lucille died in 1935 and Loren married Helen, who lived until 1974.\n\nLoren Berry became known as \"Mr. Yellow Pages.\" His motto was \"It CAN be done!\" He expanded his operations to Europe, where the product is called the Golden Pages. The company sold advertising space and handled production for many of the local Yellow Pages. It was sold to BellSouth Corp. in 1986. Terms were not disclosed, but industry observers estimated the sales price at more than $1 billion. The subsidiary is operated as The Berry Company and is responsible for more than 800 directory titles nationwide, serving more than 100 U.S. telephone companies and one million advertisers.\n\nBerry established the Loren M. Berry Foundation to oversee charitable gifts to arts, education, and medical research. These have included gifts to establish the Loren M. Berry Center for Economic Education and Ohio Stock Market Simulation at the University of Rio Grande and the Loren M. Berry Endowment for the Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron, established in 1990 to support speakers and public programs within the Institute.\n\nLoren Berry was a Republican Presidential Elector for Ohio in 1956 and 1972. In 1976, Loren Berry was inducted as a member of the Horatio Alger Association of Distinguished Americans, which honors the achievements of outstanding individuals who have succeeded in spite of adversity. In 1982, he was added to the Telephone Hall of Fame honor roll of the Independent Telecommunications Pioneer Association.\n\nOn the occasion of his 90th birthday he said, \"I've been fortunate to know many people who have shared with me...a faith in the individual's ability to achieve, a willingness to work hard — very hard, and a strong belief in the free enterprise system.\"\n\nHe died at his home in Oakwood and he and his wives and two children are interred at Woodland Cemetery, Dayton, Ohio.\n\nIn 1978, Loren's son John W. Berry endowed the Loren M. Berry Chair in\nEconomics at Dartmouth College to honor his father. John W. Berry was a 1944 graduate of Dartmouth and also donated $27 million for the construction of the Berry Library. The Berry Sports Center, opened in 1987, was also a gift of the Berry family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41108304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41108304", "title": "Margulan Seisembayev", "text": "Margulan Seisembayev\n\nMargulan Seissembayev (; , born 2 November 1966) is a Kazakhstan businessman, entrepreneur, investor and philanthropist.\n\n\nMargulan Seissembayev was born by his mother, Seissembayeva Raushan Beysekovna (05.05.1934 – 22.05.2002); and father Seissembayev Gali Jienbayevich (02.11.1921 – 02.06.2007). His father was a WWII veteran. His parents were working at the collective farm in Jezkazgan region. In 1980 he graduated school. From 1983 to 1984 Seissembayev worked as a herder. From 1984 to 1985 he worked as a hiver. For two years (1985-1987) Seissembayev served in the Army. He was a squad leader. In 1991 he graduated at Kirov Kazakh State University with a degree in law studies.\n\nIn the beginning of the 1990s, Seissembayev founded his own company \"Seimar\" which later included a financial holding, agriculture companies, telecommunication enterprises and others. In 2000 Margulan Seissembayev became a chairman of Seimar company. In 2002 Seissembayev have bought \"K-Mobile\", a telecommunications operator. In 2003 he became a chairman of the company \"Rice of Kazakhstan\". In 2004 Seissembayev sold \"K-Mobile\" to \"Vimpelcom\" for $425 mln. At that moment \"K-Mobile\" had over 600,000 subscribers.\n\nIn the 1990s he purchased and headed the commercial \"Alliance Bank\". In 2007 it became one of the first banks in Kazakhstan to issue IPO in London Stock Exchange.\n\nIn 2009, during the world financial crisis, \"Alliance Bank\" owned by Seissembayev was nationalized, with him being accused of stealing and laundering money. Margulan Seissembayev had to leave Kazakhstan for some time, but in 2010 he returned.\n\nDuring the trials and investigations held in Kazakhstan, Great Britain, Lichtenstein, Switzerland and UAE, Margulan Seissembayev and his team were justified and freed from paying any compensation in favor of Alliance Bank.\n\nSince August 2013 - Margulan is Managing Partner of \"Asadel Capital\" hedge fund.\n\nTimeline:\n\nMargulan Seisembayev has founded Seimar Social Fund, a non-commercial charitable organization working in various directions: from support of children with serious diseases to the financing of scientific books.\nHe is a co-founder of Sponsors Club of Kazakhstan which included seven young businessmen of Kazakhstan: Bulat Abylov — the chairman of the Club, Raimbek Batalov, Erken Kaliev, Kairat Satilganov, Margulan Seisembayev, Nurlan Smagulov, Nurjan Subhanberdin. The Sponsors Club had established the independent award \"Tarlan\" for distinguished personalities of Kazakhstan in literature, arts and science in 7 nominations from 2000 until 2007.\n\nIn 2012 Seisembayev supported issue of the unique atlas \"From Altai to Kaspiy\", describing archeological, historical and cultural monuments of Kazakhstan.\n\nSeisembayev is also a co-founder and patron of the private English school, Haileybury Almaty. He was also a co-founder and member of Kazakhstan’s Club of Patrons which founded the independent prize Tarlan awarded for achievements in art, science and literature from 2000 to 2007.\n\nMargulan Seisembayev was the president of the Kazakhstan Chess Federation, and also founded Seimar Open, the Kazakhstan golf championship.\n\nHe has a wife, Saule and three daughters Zere, Dameli, Almira. His sporting hobbies include hunting, skiing, flying, and playing golf. Seisembayev speaks Kazakh, Russian, Italian and English languages.\n"}
{"id": "51215178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51215178", "title": "Maxine Fensom", "text": "Maxine Fensom\n\nMaxine Fensom (born 30 August 1958) is an Australian entrepreneur well known in the adult industry for founding a number of strip clubs, strippers’ agencies, themed events and adult online stores. She also established the annual Australian Adult Industry Awards in 2001 to recognise achievements in the adult industry as well as the national Miss Erotica and Miss Dream Girl pageants.\n\nMaxine was born on 30 August 1958 in Brisbane, Australia. Moving to Melbourne at the age of two, Maxine was educated at Camberwell High School and Brinsley Road Free School in Camberwell and had a modest upbringing, the only child of a single mother. She trained as a psychiatric nurse at Swinburne Technical College, but eventually her passion for dancing and acting led her to setting up a promotional dance troupe, which performed around Melbourne successfully for a number of years. Maxine also acted on television, appearing in various episodes as “Bouncy Miss” in the acclaimed Australian Broadcasting Corporation miniseries “The Damnation of Harvey McHugh”. She has also had a biography written about her life as the most recognisable female face in the adult industry.\n\nMaxine currently operates a gentlemen’s club in the suburb of Brunswick in Melbourne. Other businesses she operates include event agencies, a topless bar, an adult merchandise online store, a concierge service and adult party services.\n\nHer career in the adult industry began as after her three-year stint on the daily horoscope segment of Channel Nine’s In Melbourne Today show ended. Hosting bucks parties and private functions, Maxine’s business grew exponentially, taking on corporate customers and establishing a business headquarters with the support of high-profile porn publisher Larry Flynt. As a prominent female face in the male-dominated adult and sex industry, Maxine has had her fair share of challenges, including social media bullying. Maxine is a strong supporter of legalised brothels, more regulations around employment in the sex industry and increased sentences for perpetrators of violent crime, running as an independent candidate in Victorian state elections in 2002 and 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2015450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2015450", "title": "National Board of Trade (Sweden)", "text": "National Board of Trade (Sweden)\n\nThe National Board of Trade ( lit. \"College of Commerce\") is a government agency in Sweden that answers to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. The agency is located in Stockholm.\n\nThe National Board of Trade is dealing with foreign trade, the Internal Market and trade policy. The Board provides the Swedish government with analyses and recommendations. It was founded in 1651.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "624270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=624270", "title": "Neihu District", "text": "Neihu District\n\nNeihu District is a district of Taipei City, Taiwan. Neihu means \"inner lake.\" The older name originates from the Ketagalan word \"Tayour\" (transliterated by the Dutch as \"Cattajo\"), meaning woman's head ornament.\n\nMany mountainous roads and paths, which are ideal for hiking, connect Neihu with the neighboring Shilin District and Yangmingshan National Park. The Tri-Service General Hospital, which is a teaching hospital of the National Defense Medical Center, is also in Neihu. The Wuchih Mountain Military Cemetery borders Neihu.\n\nIn 2018, Neihu became the seat of the American Institute in Taiwan (AIT), the de facto embassy of the United States in Taiwan.\n\nDuring Japanese rule, covered modern day Neihu in addition to Nangang. The village was under Shichisei District, Taihoku Prefecture.\n\nAlthough it is a flood-prone region, Neihu has experienced huge growth with the construction of the Neihu Technology Park and hypermarkets such as Costco, RT Mart, Carrefour, B&Q. The extension of the Taipei Metro to Neihu in the 1990s and early 2000s has also boosted residential and commercial growth. TransAsia Airways, Delta Electronics and RT-Mart have their headquarters in the district. Neihu is the location of the Garena e-Sports Stadium, which is host to the League of Legends Masters Series, the premier \"League of Legends\" esports professional video game league in Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Macau.\n\nStraightening of the Keelung River, which runs along Neihu's southern and eastern borders has changed the natural boundaries of the district at several points in the latter 20th century.\n\n\n\n\nNeihu's attractions include Dahu Park, famous for its picturesque footbridge, Bihu Park, where cherry blossoms can be viewed in the spring, and Bishan Temple (碧山巖), a large Taoist temple dedicated to Chen Yuanguang on the mountainside that affords a panoramic view of Taipei. In the vicinity of Bishan Temple are a number of other Taoist and Buddhist temples, as well as orchards and fruit farms where tourists can pick their own fruit. An extensive network of hiking trails criss-crosses the mountainous regions of the northern part of Neihu.\n\nThere are many popular restaurants in the Neihu area, including Journey Kaffe, a restaurant where patrons can make their own pizza, and Holly Brown Coffee, a cafe popular for its extravagant milkshakes.\n\nOther tourist attractions are Guo Ziyi Memorial Hall.\n\nThe district is served by the Neihu Line of Taipei Metro (Wenhu or Brown Line). Stations located within the district are Donghu Station, Huzhou Station, Dahu Park Station, Neihu Station, Wende Station, Gangqian Station and Xihu Station.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11595783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11595783", "title": "Nordic model", "text": "Nordic model\n\nThe Nordic model refers to the economic and social policies common to the Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Norway, Iceland, Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Sweden). This includes a comprehensive welfare state and collective bargaining at the national level with a high percentage of the workforce unionized, while being based on the economic foundations of free market capitalism. The Nordic model began to earn attention after World War II.\n\nThe Scandinavian countries were all monarchies, with Finland and Iceland becoming republics in the 20th century; currently, the Nordic countries have been described as being highly democratic. Although there are significant differences among the Nordic countries, they all share some common traits. These include support for a \"universalist\" welfare state aimed specifically at enhancing individual autonomy and promoting social mobility; a corporatist system involving a tripartite arrangement where representatives of labor and employers negotiate wages and labor market policy mediated by the government; and a commitment to private ownership (with some caveats), free markets, and free trade. \n\nEach of the Nordic countries has its own economic and social models, sometimes with large differences from its neighbours.\n\n\"The Nordic Model – Embracing globalization and sharing risks\" characterises the system as follows:\n\n\nThe Nordic countries share active labor market policies as part of a corporatist economic model intended to reduce conflict between labor and the interests of capital. The corporatist system is most extensive in Sweden and Norway, where employer federations and labor representatives bargain at the national level mediated by the government. Labor market interventions are aimed at providing job retraining and relocation.\n\nThe Nordic labor market is flexible, with laws making it easy for employers to hire and shed workers or introduce labor-saving technology. To mitigate the negative effect on workers, the government labor market policies are designed to provide generous social welfare, job retraining and relocation to limit any conflicts between capital and labor that might arise from this process.\n\nThe Nordic model is underpinned by a free market capitalist economic system that features high degrees of private ownership with the exception of Norway, which includes a large number of state-owned enterprises and state ownership in publicly listed firms.\n\nThe Nordic model is described as a system of competitive capitalism combined with a large percentage of the population employed by the public sector (roughly 30% of the work force). In 2013, \"The Economist\" described its countries as \"stout free-traders who resist the temptation to intervene even to protect iconic companies\" while also looking for ways to temper capitalism's harsher effects, and declared that the Nordic countries \"are probably the best-governed in the world\". Some economists have referred to the Nordic economic model as a form of \"cuddly\" capitalism, with low levels of inequality, generous welfare states and reduced concentration of top incomes, and contrast it with the more \"cut-throat\" capitalism of the United States, which has high levels of inequality and a larger concentration of top incomes.\n\nBeginning in the 1990s, the Swedish economy pursued neoliberal reforms that reduced the role of the public sector, leading to the fastest growth in inequality of any OECD economy. However, Sweden's income inequality still remains lower than most other countries.\n\nThe state of Norway has ownership stakes in many of the country's largest publicly listed companies, owning 37% of the Oslo stockmarket and operating the country's largest non-listed companies including Statoil and Statkraft. \"The Economist\" reports that \"after the second world war the government nationalised all German business interests in Norway and ended up owning 44% of Norsk Hydro's shares. The formula of controlling business through shares rather than regulation seemed to work well, so the government used it wherever possible. 'We invented the Chinese way of doing things before the Chinese', says Torger Reve of the Norwegian Business School\". \n\nThe government also operates a sovereign wealth fund, the Government Pension Fund of Norway—whose partial objective is to prepare Norway for a post-oil future, but \"unusually among oil-producing nations, it is also a big advocate of human rights—and a powerful one, thanks to its control of the Nobel peace prize\".\n\nNorway is the only major economy in the West where younger generations are getting richer, with a 13% increase in disposable income for 2018, bucking the trend seen in other Western nations of millennials becoming poorer than the generations which came before.\n\nThe Nordic welfare model refers to the welfare policies of the Nordic countries, which also tie into their labor market policies. The Nordic model of welfare is distinguished from other types of welfare states by its emphasis on maximizing labor force participation, promoting gender equality, egalitarian and extensive benefit levels, the large magnitude of income redistribution and liberal use of expansionary fiscal policy.\n\nWhile there are differences among different Nordic countries, they all share a broad commitment to social cohesion, a universal nature of welfare provision in order to safeguard individualism by providing protection for vulnerable individuals and groups in society and maximizing public participation in social decision-making. It is characterized by flexibility and openness to innovation in the provision of welfare. The Nordic welfare systems are mainly funded through taxation.\n\nDespite the common values, the Nordic countries take different approaches to the practical administration of the welfare state. Denmark features a high degree of private sector provision of public services and welfare, alongside an assimilation immigration policy. Iceland's welfare model is based on a \"welfare-to-work\" (see: workfare) model while part of Finland's welfare state includes the voluntary sector playing a significant role in providing care for the elderly. Norway relies most extensively on public provision of welfare.\n\nThe Nordic model has been successful at significantly reducing poverty. In 2011, poverty rates before taking into account the effects of taxes and transfers stood at 24.7% in Denmark, 31.9% in Finland, 21.6% in Iceland, 25.6% in Norway and 26.5% in Sweden. After accounting for taxes and transfers the poverty rates for the same year became 6%, 7.5%, 5.7%, 7.7% and 9.7% respectively, for an average reduction of 18.7 p.p. Compared to the United States, which has a poverty level pre-tax of 28.3% and post-tax of 17.4% for a reduction of 10.9 p.p., the effects of tax and transfers on poverty in all the Nordic countries are substantially bigger. However, in comparison to France (27 p.p. reduction) and Germany (24.2 p.p. reduction) the taxes and transfers in the Nordic countries are smaller on average.\n\nScandinavian countries have Lutheranism as their main religion. Schroder argues that Lutheranism promotes the idea of a nationwide community of believers and it promotes state involvement in economic and social life. This allows nationwide welfare solidarity and economic coordination.\n\nCurrently, a large number of Scandinavians have been described as being irreligious.\n\nThe Nordic model has been positively received by some American politicians and political commentators. Jerry Mander has likened the Nordic model to a kind of \"hybrid\" system which features a blend of capitalist economics with socialist values, representing an alternative to American-style capitalism. United States Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) has pointed to Scandinavia and the Nordic model as something America can learn from, in particular with respect to the benefits and social protections the Nordic model affords workers and its provision of universal healthcare. According to Naomi Klein, former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev sought to move the Soviet Union in a similar direction to the Nordic system, combining free markets with a social safety net but still retaining public ownership of key sectors of the economy - ingredients that he believed would transform the Soviet Union into \"a socialist beacon for all mankind\".\n\nThe Nordic model has also been positively received by various social scientists and economists. American professor of sociology and political science Lane Kenworthy advocates for the United States to make a gradual transition toward a social democracy similar to those of the Nordic countries, defining social democracy as \"The idea behind social democracy was to make capitalism better. There is disagreement about how exactly to do that, and others might think the proposals in my book aren't true social democracy. But I think of it as a commitment to use government to make life better for people in a capitalist economy. To a large extent, that consists of using public insurance programs—government transfers and services\". Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz has noted that there is higher social mobility in the Scandinavian countries than in the United States and argues that Scandinavia is now the land of opportunity that the United States once was. American author Ann Jones, who lived in Norway for four years, contends \"the Nordic countries give their populations freedom \"from\" the market by using capitalism as a tool to benefit everyone\", whereas in the United States \"neoliberal politics puts the foxes in charge of the henhouse, and capitalists have used the wealth generated by their enterprises (as well as financial and political manipulations) to capture the state and pluck the chickens\".\n\nEconomist Jeffrey Sachs is a proponent of the Nordic model, having pointed out that the Nordic model is \"the proof that modern capitalism can be combined with decency, fairness, trust, honesty, and environmental sustainability.\"\n\nThe Nordic combination of extensive public provision of welfare and a culture of individualism has been described by Lars Trägårdh, of Ersta Sköndal University College, as \"statist individualism\".\n\nA 2016 survey by the think tank Israel Democracy Institute found that nearly 60 percent of Israeli Jews preferred a \"Scandinavian model\" economy, with high taxes and a robust welfare state.\n\nGeorge Lakey, author of \"Viking Economics\", asserts that Americans generally misunderstand the nature of the Nordic \"welfare state\":\n\nAmericans imagine that \"welfare state\" means the U.S. welfare system on steroids. Actually, the Nordics scrapped their American-style welfare system at least 60 years ago, and substituted universal services, which means everyone—rich and poor—gets free higher education, free medical services, free eldercare, etc. \n\nIn his role as economic adviser to Poland and Yugoslavia in their post-socialist transitional period, Jeffrey Sachs noted that the specific forms of Western-style capitalism such as Swedish-style social democracy and Thatcherite liberalism are virtually identical:\n\nThe eastern countries must reject any lingering ideas about a “third way”, such as a chimerical “market socialism” based on public ownership or worker self-management, and go straight for a western-style market economy...The main debate in economic reform should therefore be about the means of transition, not the ends. Eastern Europe will still argue over the ends: for example, whether to aim for Swedish-style social democracy or Thatcherite liberalism. But that can wait. Sweden and Britain alike have nearly complete private ownership, private financial markets and active labour markets. Eastern Europe today [in 1990] has none of these institutions; for it, the alternative models of Western Europe are almost identical.\n\nIn a speech at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, Danish Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen addressed the American misconception that the Nordic model is a form of socialism: \"'I know that some people in the US associate the Nordic model with some sort of socialism,' he said. 'Therefore, I would like to make one thing clear. Denmark is far from a socialist planned economy. Denmark is a market economy.'\"\n\nThe socialist economists John Roemer and Pranab Bardhan criticize Nordic-style social democracy for its questionable effectiveness in promoting relative egalitarianism as well as its sustainability. They point out that Nordic social democracy requires a strong labor movement to sustain the heavy redistribution required, arguing that it is idealistic to think similar levels of redistribution can be accomplished in countries with weaker labor movements. They note that even in the Scandinavian countries social democracy has been in decline since the weakening of the labor movement in the early 1990s, arguing that the sustainability of social democracy is limited. Roemer and Bardham argue that establishing a market socialist economy by changing enterprise ownership would be more effective than social democratic redistribution at promoting egalitarian outcomes, particularly in countries with weak labor movements.\n\nHistorian Guðmundur Jónsson argues that it would be inaccurate to include Iceland in one aspect of the Nordic model, that of consensus democracy. He writes that \"Icelandic democracy is better described as more adversarial than consensual in style and practice. The labour market was rife with conflict and strikes more frequent than in Europe, resulting in strained government–trade union relationship. Secondly, Iceland did not share the Nordic tradition of power-sharing or corporatism as regards labour market policies or macro-economic policy management, primarily because of the weakness of Social Democrats and the Left in general. Thirdly, the legislative process did not show a strong tendency towards consensus-building between government and opposition with regard to government seeking consultation or support for key legislation. Fourthly, the political style in legislative procedures and public debate in general tended to be adversarial rather than consensual in nature\".\n\nIn their paper \"The Scandinavian Fantasy: The Sources of Intergeneration Mobility in Denmark and the U.S.\", Rasmus Landersøn and James J. Heckman compared American and Danish social mobility and found that social mobility is not as high as figures might suggest in the Nordic countries. When looking exclusively at wages (before taxes and transfers), Danish and American social mobility are very similar. It is only after taxes and transfers are taken into account that Danish social mobility improves, indicating that Danish economic redistribution policies simply give the impression of greater mobility. Additionally, Denmark's greater investment in public education did not improve educational mobility significantly, meaning children of non-college educated parents are still unlikely to receive college education, though this public investment did result in improved cognitive skills amongst poor Danish children compared to their American peers. The researchers also found evidence that generous welfare policies could discourage the pursuit of higher-level education due to decreasing the economic benefits that college education level jobs offer and increasing welfare for workers of a lower education level.\n\nNima Sanandaji, a libertarian, has also criticized the Nordic model, questioning the link between the model and socio-economic outcomes in works of his such as \"Scandinavian Unexceptionalism\" and \"Debunking Utopia: Exposing the Myth of Nordic Socialism\".\n\nAccording to sociologist Lane Kenworthy, in the context of the Nordic model \"social democracy\", the ideology of the Nordic labour parties, refers to a set of policies for promoting economic security and opportunity within the framework of capitalism rather than a replacement for capitalism. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42136759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42136759", "title": "OpenEMIS", "text": "OpenEMIS\n\nOpenEMIS, or Open Education Management Information System (EMIS), is an Education Management Information System for the education sector. Its main purpose is to collect, analyze, and report data related to the management of educational activities. Initially conceived by UNESCO, OpenEMIS serves as a response to Member States’ need in the area of tools for educational strategic planning. ‘Open’ refers to the software being both open-source under the GNU GPL and available royalty-free to Member states of UNESCO.\n\nOpenEMIS is an initiative launched by UNESCO. The initiative is in line with UNESCO's effort to promote EMIS to address the issues of access, equity, quality, and relevance in education and subsequent gaps between Member States in providing an adequate decision support system since early 2000s, in keeping with the Education for All goals adopted in Dakar in 2000. OpenEMIS was conceived to be a royalty-free software that can be customized to meet the specific needs of implementing countries, without conditions or restrictions for use, with the purpose of encouraging country-level capacity development and helping countries upgrade their local skills for managing the tool. The initiative is coordinated by UNESCO in partnership with a nonprofit organization (NPO), Community Systems Foundation (CSF) for the implementation and technical support since 2012.\n\nOpenEMIS is a suite of interrelated software solutions that supports data collection (Survey; Classroom; Staffroom), management (Core; School; Integrator), and analysis (Visualizer; Monitoring; Dashboard; Analyzer; DataManager; Profiles). Each application is designed to provide unique standalone features to support different information management requirements at different levels. These features could be customized and integrated with existing systems. As open-source solutions, OpenEMIS benefits from coding contributions from the larger community. The OpenEMIS Initiative utilizes End-user license agreements and Contributor license agreements to ensure maintenance of standards, quality assurance and that the product remains free from commercialization.\nOpenEMIS is being implemented in the following countries. In nearly all cases, the Ministry of Education is central to implementation, with support and engagement with a wide range of stakeholders:\n\n\nSupport is available to implementing countries with all aspects of country implementation from the technical support team. Support activities include services for: Policy and Planning; Analysis; Implementation; Custom Software Development; Training; and others as needed. System set up may involve cost for additional technical support for setup, configuration, migration, and capacity building.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39293636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39293636", "title": "R. J. Reynolds Jr.", "text": "R. J. Reynolds Jr.\n\nRichard \"Dick\" Joshua Reynolds Jr. (April 4, 1906 - Dec 14, 1964) was an American entrepreneur and the son of R.J. Reynolds, founder of the R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company.\n\nReynolds was an American businessman, politician, activist and philanthropist.\nHis political career included serving as treasurer of the National Democratic Party under President Roosevelt and as Mayor of Winston-Salem, North Carolina. As a businessman, he acted as President of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company and was involved in creating Delta Air Lines. He was also a yachtsman, pilot, aviator, and philanthropist.\n\nReynolds had four sons with his first wife, socialite Elizabeth McCaw Dillard: Richard Joshua Reynolds III (1933-1994), John Dillard Reynolds (1935-1990), Zachary Taylor Reynolds (1938-1979), and William Neil Reynolds (1940-2009). From his second marriage to the Hollywood stage and movie actress, Marianne O'Brien, his sons were: the activist Patrick Reynolds, and Michael Randolph Reynolds (1947-2004). His third marriage was to Muriel Marston Greenough, the younger sister of Anthony Heselton Marston, who was a major Canadian industrialist. His first three marriages ended in divorce. His fourth marriage, in 1961, was to Dr. Annemarie Schmitt, a psychiatrist.\n\nReynolds was diagnosed with emphysema in 1960 and died four years later in Switzerland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14473397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14473397", "title": "Rynella, Louisiana", "text": "Rynella, Louisiana\n\nRynella is an unincorporated community in Iberia Parish, Louisiana, United States that consists of a few residential dwellings and a volunteer fire department along Highway 329 (also known as the Avery Island Highway). The name \"Rynella\" allegedly is a portmanteau deriving from the last two letters of the first names of three local women, Rosema\"RY\", Pauli\"NE\", and Lei\"LA\" McIlhenny (someone eventually adding an extra L to the resulting word). They were daughters of Edward Avery McIlhenny, a noted Louisiana conservationist who presided over McIlhenny Company, maker of Tabasco brand pepper sauce at nearby Avery Island. (At one time McIlhenny operated a general store at Rynella and he owned much of the land that now comprises and surrounds the community.)\n"}
{"id": "58955302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58955302", "title": "Samuel Fränkel", "text": "Samuel Fränkel\n\nSamuel Fränkel (22 November 1801 – 28 July 1881) was a German industrialist.\n\nSamuel Fränkel was born 22 November 1801 in Zülz (currently Biała Prudnicka, Poland). In 1827 he moved to Neustadt O.S. (currently Prudnik). He founded a terrycloth factory at the shore of Prudnik river. It quickly became one of the biggest terrycloth factories in Europe. The company was later known as Zakłady Przemysłu Bawełnianego \"Frotex\". Fränkel opened a few branches in Berlin and Augsburg.\n\nSamuel Fränkel died 28 July 1881 in Neustadt O.S. He was a grandfather of Max Pinkus.\n"}
{"id": "16256753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16256753", "title": "Shell–Paques process", "text": "Shell–Paques process\n\nThe Shell–Paques process, also known by the trade name of Thiopaq O&G, is a gas desulfurization technology for the removal of hydrogen sulfide from natural-, refinery-, synthesis- and biogas. The process was initially named after the Shell Oil and Paques purification companies. After accession of a dedicated joint venture by the founders, Paqell B.V., the trade name for applications in the Oil & Gas industry was changed to \"THIOPAQ O&G\". It is based on the biocatalytical conversion of sulfide into elemental sulfur. It operates at near-ambient conditions of temperature, about 30-40 °C, and pressure which results in inherent safety. It is an alternative to, for example, the Claus process.\n\nEach reaction can be applied individually or sequentially as dictated by the characteristics of the stream to be treated. The process consist of three main sections: An absorber (gas washing section), a bioreactor (sulfide oxidation and regeneration of washing liquid) and Sulfur handling section as shown in the figure below:\n\nThe washing step uses a dilute alkaline solution to remove hydrogen sulfide (HS) from the sour gas according to: \nThe loaded washing liquid is transported to a bioreactor where a biocatalyst oxidises the aqueous NaHS to elemental sulfur with about 95% selectivity according to: \nCombined reaction equation: \n\nThe regenerated washing liquid is sent back to the washing column.\nThe controlled partial oxidation of sulfide to elemental sulfur (2) is catalyzed by naturally occurring microorganisms of the genus \"Halothiobacillus\" in the bioreactor. These natural, living microorganisms present in the bioreactor catalyse the sulfur conversions and are, by their nature, resilient and adaptive.\n\nIn many situations the process can be used for sulfur removal and recovery. When sulfur recovery is desired, the elemental sulfur produced in the aerobic bioreactor will be separated from the aqueous effluent in a separator inside of the reactor. The excess sulfur will be removed as aqueous slurry or cake of up to 65% dry solids content. There are several options for handling this slurry and to convert it into products for sulfuric acid generation, fertiliser or fungicide.\n\nThe system is flexible and has several processing options that have ready application in the petroleum refinery or petrochemical complex for managing a variety of sulfur-containing streams including sulfidic caustic, LPG, hydrotreater offgas and fuel gas.\n\n"}
{"id": "405182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405182", "title": "Simutrans", "text": "Simutrans\n\nSimutrans is a cross-platform simulation game in which the player strives to run a successful transport system by constructing and managing transportation systems for passengers, mail and goods by land (rail, road, tram, monorail, maglev), air (airplanes) and water (ship) between places. Like \"OpenTTD\", \"Simutrans\" is an open-source transportation game based on the \"Transport Tycoon\" idea.\n\n\"Simutrans\" was originally written by Hansjörg Malthaner in 1997. Around 2004 he retired from development, and an international community of volunteers took over the development. \"Simutrans\" was developed internally as a closed source game until 2007, when the software was relicensed under the Artistic License.\n\nSimutrans is ported to Microsoft Windows, Linux, BeOS/Haiku, Mac OS X and AmigaOS 4.x which make use of several graphics libraries such as GDI (Windows only), SDL (all versions) or Allegro (BeOS only). It is portable to any architecture using GCC and one of the aforementioned libraries. \"Simutrans\" has also multilingual support.\n\nCurrently the stable release of \"Simutrans\" is version 120.2.2 as of April 1, 2017. There is a popular branch of the code called Simutrans-Extended, which aims to extend the basic game. Simutrans-Extended was formerly called Simutrans-Experimental, but changed its name to Simutrans-Extended on February 13, 2017 to make clear that it is a distinct fork of Simutrans and not a testing branch. Nightly builds for \"Simutrans\" and the main PakSets are also released for both standard and Extended versions.\n\nThe main goal in \"Simutrans\" is to provide an efficient transport system for passengers, mail and goods to be transported to their desired destinations fast and with minimal transfers and at the same time making the company grow avoiding bankruptcy or administration.\n\n\"Simutrans\" has a number of factory chains that are interconnected with other chains, for example, a coal mine produces coal for a coal power plant, and an oil rig produces oil for an oil power plant. The goods produced by these factories may be distributed to smaller factories or shops, such as gasoline to a gas station, coming from a gas storage facility, which retrieves the gas from an oil refinery, and so on.\n\nSupplying a factory with electric power will increase the production and allows for fine-tuning the economy. Passengers and mail are transported between different cities and tourist attractions, and may use several methods of transportation to reach their destinations.\n\nThe \"Simutrans\" executable can run many different paksets, which is a package containing files called paks. Paks are files with graphic and data files that Simutrans uses to determine the objects in the game, it determines things like their resolution, appearance and behaviors. Gaming experience is therefore very dependent on the PakSet used.\n\n\"Simutrans\" currently features 12 AI players, and has an online capability similar to \"OpenTTD\" since version 110.0. The terrain in \"Simutrans\" is freely-modifiable, and different layers like tunnels and bridges can be stacked, allowing for subways or highways to be possible. It has a day and night cycle, different climates and seasons. Nearly all modes of transportation exist in \"Simutrans\". At least buses/trucks, trains, and ships are always provided. If defined in the PakSet, aircraft, monorails and/or maglevs can also be used.\n\nThe \"Simutrans\" executable must load a PakSet which contains the game's objects. Over the years several PakSets have been created, an overview is given on the official page.\n\n\"Simutrans\" can easily be expanded or modified. Simple modification can be done via editing the personal config file. Since the objects in the game just consist of a simple image and a short description file, it is very easy to create a house or add a train. Thus many contributed objects for all graphic sizes exist. The user can also add height maps and citylists which add city names into the game. Even deep modifications of the game mechanics are possible via the config file, like a setting to prevent stockpiling at factories or changing the economic model simulation.\n\nGameDaily's Big Download considered \"Simutrans\" to be one of the best freeware games, highlighting the logical system of routing passengers and freight to their destinations, decent AI opponents and the support for custom aesthetics or rules-sets. However, the sometimes unreliable vehicle pathfinding was criticized, particularly with respect to alternate routes and switches for train lines. The sound effects were deemed to be unengaging, and new players may be baffled by the range of transportation possibilities.\n\nAnother review from Amiga Future came to very similar conclusions (apart from the lack of sound support on Amiga OS). In particular the depth of simulation and the stability were highlighted.\n\nBetween 2007 and June 2017 Simutrans was downloaded from Sourceforge over 5.6 million times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13767180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13767180", "title": "Skimming (casinos)", "text": "Skimming (casinos)\n\nSkimming refers to the illegal transfer of funds from casinos to outside personnel without official documentation. Skimmed money is usually transferred in cash to evade taxes and to fund organized crime anonymously. The quantities of money skimmed are usually small portions of the casino's total profit so as not to arouse suspicion from regulators or law enforcement.\n\n\"In May of 1963...the FBI turned over to the Justice Department a two-volume document called \"The Skimming Report,\" which detailed the illegal siphoning off of gambling profits by Las Vegas casinos to avoid taxes.\" The report documented how pre-tax profits from casinos were being routed to various organized crime syndicates across the nation. No one could be prosecuted as the FBI obtained its information by illegally bugging casino money rooms. The money rooms are where the cash from the betting floor is counted and recorded on the casino's books.\n\nSkimming by diverting pre-tax profits is just one of many possible methods. In casinos the patron is betting against the house, so the house has an incentive to fix the games (cards, roulette, slots, etc.). In pari-mutuels (horse and dog track, jai alai) the house instead gets a fixed percentage of the total amount bet, so is theoretically less likely to fix the games. However, pari-mutuels use sophisticated computer systems to handle customer bets and a major scandal involving Autotote, a major supplier of these systems, has been exposed.\n\nOther methods of skimming, such as arranging for particular employees of organized crime to be allowed to win in rigged games, were sometimes used.\n"}
{"id": "4106274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4106274", "title": "Standard components (food processing)", "text": "Standard components (food processing)\n\nStandard components is a food technology term, when manufacturers buy in a standard component they would use a pre-made product in the production of their food.\nThey help products to be the same in consistency, they are quick and easy to use in batch production of food products.\nSome examples are pre-made stock cubes, marzipan, icing, ready made pastry.\n\nManufacturers use standard components as they save time and sometimes cost a lot less and it also helps with consistency in products.\nIf a manufacturer is to use a standard component from another supplier it is essential that a precise and accurate specification is produced by the manufacturer so that the component meets the standards set by the manufacturer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8671634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8671634", "title": "Standard trading conditions", "text": "Standard trading conditions\n\nStandard Trading Conditions (STC) are standardized terms imposed by some countries for accepting cargo by shipping lines, airlines and logistics services providers like freight forwarders and customs agents. They are usually printed as the fine print behind the shipping documents like bill of lading, air way bill, or consignment note. These standard trading conditions state the general contract terms and conditions between the two contracting parties who do a contract of transportation or storage or otherwise handling of goods.\n\nThey are often based on the standardized trading rules suggested by FIATA.\n"}
{"id": "27875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27875", "title": "Stephen Jay Gould", "text": "Stephen Jay Gould\n\nStephen Jay Gould (; September 10, 1941 – May 20, 2002) was an American paleontologist, evolutionary biologist, and historian of science. He was also one of the most influential and widely read authors of popular science of his generation. Gould spent most of his career teaching at Harvard University and working at the American Museum of Natural History in New York. In 1996, Gould was hired as the Vincent Astor Visiting Research Professor of Biology at New York University, where he divided his time teaching there and at Harvard.\n\nGould's most significant contribution to evolutionary biology was the theory of punctuated equilibrium, which he developed with Niles Eldredge in 1972. The theory proposes that most evolution is characterized by long periods of evolutionary stability, which is infrequently punctuated by swift periods of branching speciation. The theory was contrasted against phyletic gradualism, the popular idea that evolutionary change is marked by a pattern of smooth and continuous change in the fossil record.\n\nMost of Gould's empirical research was based on the land snail genera \"Poecilozonites\" and \"Cerion\". He also made important contributions to evolutionary developmental biology, receiving broad professional recognition for his book \"Ontogeny and Phylogeny\". In evolutionary theory he opposed strict selectionism, sociobiology as applied to humans, and evolutionary psychology. He campaigned against creationism and proposed that science and religion should be considered two distinct fields (or \"non-overlapping magisteria\") whose authorities do not overlap.\n\nGould was known by the general public mainly for his 300 popular essays in \"Natural History\" magazine, and his numerous books written for both the specialist and non-specialist.\nIn April 2000, the US Library of Congress named him a \"Living Legend\".\n\nStephen Jay Gould was born in Queens, New York on September 10, 1941. His father Leonard was a court stenographer and a World War II veteran in the United States Navy. His mother Eleanor was an artist, whose parents were Jewish immigrants living and working in the city's Garment District. Gould and his younger brother Peter were raised in Bayside, a middle class neighborhood in the northeastern section of Queens. He attended elementary school and graduated from Jamaica High School.\n\nWhen Gould was five years old his father took him to the Hall of Dinosaurs in the American Museum of Natural History, where he first encountered \"Tyrannosaurus rex\". \"I had no idea there were such things—I was awestruck,\" Gould once recalled. It was in that moment that he decided to become a paleontologist.\n\nRaised in a secular Jewish home, Gould did not formally practice religion and preferred to be called an agnostic. When asked directly if he was an agnostic in \"Skeptic\" magazine, he responded:\n\nThough he \"had been brought up by a Marxist father\" he stated that his father's politics were \"very different\" from his own. In describing his own political views, he has said they \"tend to the left of center.\" According to Gould the most influential political books he read were C. Wright Mills' \"The Power Elite\" and the political writings of Noam Chomsky.\n\nWhile attending Antioch College in the early 1960s, Gould was active in the civil rights movement and often campaigned for social justice. When he attended the University of Leeds as a visiting undergraduate, he organized weekly demonstrations outside a Bradford dance hall which refused to admit black people. Gould continued these demonstrations until the policy was revoked. Throughout his career and writings, he spoke out against cultural oppression in all its forms, especially what he saw as the pseudoscience used in the service of racism and sexism.\n\nInterspersed throughout his scientific essays for \"Natural History\" magazine, Gould frequently referred to his nonscientific interests and pastimes. As a boy he collected baseball cards and remained an avid New York Yankees fan throughout his life. As an adult he was fond of science fiction movies, but often lamented their poor storytelling and presentation of science. His other interests included singing baritone in the Boston Cecilia, and he was a great aficionado of Gilbert and Sullivan operas. He collected rare antiquarian books, possessed an enthusiasm for architecture, and delighted in city walks. He often traveled to Europe, and spoke French, German, Russian, and Italian. He sometimes alluded ruefully to his tendency to put on weight.\n\nGould married artist Deborah Lee on October 3, 1965. Gould met Lee while they were students together at Antioch College. They had two sons, Jesse and Ethan, and were married for 30 years. His second marriage in 1995 was to artist and sculptor Rhonda Roland Shearer.\n\nIn July 1982 Gould was diagnosed with peritoneal mesothelioma, a deadly form of cancer affecting the abdominal lining (the peritoneum). This cancer is frequently found in people who have ingested or inhaled asbestos fibers, a mineral which was used in the construction of Harvard's Museum of Comparative Zoology. After a difficult two-year recovery, Gould published a column for \"Discover\" magazine titled \"The Median Isn't the Message\", which discusses his reaction to discovering that, \"mesothelioma is incurable, with a median mortality of only eight months after discovery.\" In his essay he describes the actual significance behind this fact, and his relief upon recognizing that statistical averages are useful abstractions, and by themselves do not encompass \"our actual world of variation, shadings, and continua.\"\n\nThe median is the halfway point, which means that 50% of people will die before eight months. However the other half may live significantly longer depending on the nature of the distribution. Gould needed to determine where his individual characteristics placed him within this range. Given that his cancer was detected early, he was young, optimistic, and had the best treatments available, he reasoned that he likely fell within the favorable tail of a right skewed distribution. After an experimental treatment of radiation, chemotherapy, and surgery, Gould made a full recovery, and his column became a source of comfort for many cancer patients.\n\nGould was also an advocate of medical cannabis. When undergoing his cancer treatments he smoked marijuana to help alleviate the long periods of intense and uncontrollable nausea. According to Gould, the drug had a \"most important effect\" on his eventual recovery. He later complained that he could not understand how \"any humane person would withhold such a beneficial substance from people in such great need simply because others use it for different purposes.\" On August 5, 1998, Gould's testimony assisted in the successful lawsuit of HIV activist Jim Wakeford, who sued the Government of Canada for the right to cultivate, possess, and use marijuana for medical purposes.\n\nIn February 2002, a lesion was found on Gould's chest radiograph, and oncologists diagnosed him with stage IV cancer. Gould died 10 weeks later on May 20, 2002 from a metastatic adenocarcinoma of the lung, an aggressive form of cancer which had already spread to his brain, liver, and spleen. This cancer was unrelated to his previous bout of abdominal cancer in 1982. He died in his home \"in a bed set up in the library of his SoHo loft, surrounded by his wife Rhonda, his mother Eleanor, and the many books he loved.\"\n\nGould began his higher education at Antioch College, graduating with a double major in geology and philosophy in 1963. During this time, he also studied at the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom. After completing graduate work at Columbia University in 1967 under the guidance of Norman Newell, he was immediately hired by Harvard University where he worked until the end of his life (1967–2002). In 1973, Harvard promoted him to professor of geology and curator of invertebrate paleontology at the institution's Museum of Comparative Zoology.\n\nIn 1982 Harvard awarded him the title of Alexander Agassiz Professor of Zoology. The following year, 1983, he was awarded a fellowship at the American Association for the Advancement of Science, where he later served as president (1999–2001). The AAAS news release cited his \"numerous contributions to both scientific progress and the public understanding of science.\" He also served as president of the Paleontological Society (1985–1986) and of the Society for the Study of Evolution (1990–1991).\n\nIn 1989 Gould was elected into the body of the National Academy of Sciences. Through 1996–2002 Gould was Vincent Astor Visiting Research Professor of Biology at New York University. In 2001, the American Humanist Association named him the Humanist of the Year for his lifetime of work. In 2008, he was posthumously awarded the Darwin-Wallace Medal, along with 12 other recipients. (Until 2008, this medal had been awarded every 50 years by the Linnean Society of London.)\n\nEarly in his career, Gould and his colleague Niles Eldredge developed the theory of punctuated equilibrium, which describes the rate of speciation in the fossil record as occurring relatively rapidly, which then alternates to a longer period of evolutionary stability. It was Gould who coined the term \"punctuated equilibria\" though the theory was originally presented by Eldredge in his doctoral dissertation on Devonian trilobites and his article published the previous year on allopatric speciation.\n\nAccording to Gould, punctuated equilibrium revised a key pillar \"in the central logic of Darwinian theory.\" Some evolutionary biologists have argued that while punctuated equilibrium was \"of great interest to biology generally,\" it merely modified neo-Darwinism in a manner that was fully compatible with what had been known before.\nOther biologists emphasize the theoretical novelty of punctuated equilibrium, and argued that evolutionary stasis had been \"unexpected by most evolutionary biologists\" and \"had a major impact on paleontology and evolutionary biology.\"\n\nComparisons were made to George Gaylord Simpson's work in \"Tempo and Mode in Evolution\" (1941). However Simpson describes the paleontological record as being characterized by predominantly gradual change (which he termed horotely), though he also documented examples of slow (bradytely), and rapid (tachytely) rates of evolution. Punctuated equilibrium and phyletic gradualism are not mutually exclusive, and examples of each have been documented in different lineages. The debate between these two models is often misunderstood by non-scientists, and according to Richard Dawkins has been oversold by the media.\nSome critics jokingly referred to the theory of punctuated equilibrium as \"evolution by jerks\",\nwhich prompted Gould to describe phyletic gradualism as \"evolution by creeps.\"\n\nGould made significant contributions to evolutionary developmental biology, especially in his work \"Ontogeny and Phylogeny\". In this book he emphasized the process of heterochrony, which encompasses two distinct processes: neoteny and terminal additions. Neoteny is the process where ontogeny is slowed down and the organism does not reach the end of its development. Terminal addition is the process by which an organism adds to its development by speeding and shortening earlier stages in the developmental process. Gould's influence in the field of evolutionary developmental biology continues to be seen today in areas such as the evolution of feathers.\n\nGould was a champion of biological constraints, internal limitations upon developmental pathways, as well as other non-selectionist forces in evolution. Rather than direct adaptations, he considered many higher functions of the human brain to be the unintended side consequence of natural selection. To describe such co-opted features, he coined the term exaptation with paleontologist Elisabeth Vrba. Gould believed this feature of human mentality undermines an essential premise of human sociobiology and evolutionary psychology.\n\nIn 1975, Gould's Harvard colleague E. O. Wilson introduced his analysis of animal behavior (including human behavior) based on a sociobiological framework that suggested that many social behaviors have a strong evolutionary basis. In response, Gould, Richard Lewontin, and others from the Boston area wrote the subsequently well-referenced letter to \"The New York Review of Books\" entitled, \"Against 'Sociobiology'\". This open letter criticized Wilson's notion of a \"deterministic view of human society and human action.\"\n\nBut Gould did not rule out sociobiological explanations for many aspects of animal behavior, and later wrote: \"Sociobiologists have broadened their range of selective stories by invoking concepts of inclusive fitness and kin selection to solve (successfully I think) the vexatious problem of altruism—previously the greatest stumbling block to a Darwinian theory of social behavior... Here sociobiology has had and will continue to have success. And here I wish it well. For it represents an extension of basic Darwinism to a realm where it should apply.\"\n\nWith Richard Lewontin, Gould wrote an influential 1979 paper entitled, \"The Spandrels of San Marco and the Panglossian Paradigm\", \nwhich introduced the architectural term \"spandrel\" into evolutionary biology. In architecture, a spandrel is a triangular space which exists over the haunches of an arch. Spandrels—more often called pendentives in this context—are found particularly in classical architecture, especially Byzantine and Renaissance churches.\n\nWhen visiting Venice in 1978, Gould noted that the spandrels of the San Marco cathedral, while quite beautiful, were not spaces planned by the architect. Rather the spaces arise as \"necessary architectural byproducts of mounting a dome on rounded arches.\" Gould and Lewontin thus defined \"spandrels\" in the evolutionary biology context to mean any biological feature of an organism that arises as a necessary side consequence of other features, which is not directly selected for by natural selection. Proposed examples include the \"masculinized genitalia in female hyenas, exaptive use of an umbilicus as a brooding chamber by snails, the shoulder hump of the giant Irish deer, and several key features of human mentality.\"\n\nIn Voltaire's \"Candide\", Dr. Pangloss is portrayed as a clueless scholar who, despite the evidence, insists that \"all is for the best in this best of all possible worlds\". Gould and Lewontin asserted that it is Panglossian for evolutionary biologists to view all traits as atomized things that had been naturally selected for, and criticised biologists for not granting theoretical space to other causes, such as phyletic and developmental constraints. The relative frequency of spandrels, so defined, versus adaptive features in nature, remains a controversial topic in evolutionary biology. An illustrative example of Gould's approach can be found in Elisabeth Lloyd's case study suggesting that the female orgasm is a by-product of shared developmental pathways. Gould also wrote on this topic in his essay \"Male Nipples and Clitoral Ripples\" prompted by Lloyd's earlier work.\n\nGould was criticized by philosopher Dan Dennett for using the term spandrel instead of pendentive, a spandrel that curves across a right angle to support a dome. Robert Mark, a professor of civil engineering at Princeton, offered his expertise in the pages of \"American Scientist\", noting that these definitions are often misunderstood in architectural theory. Mark concluded, \"Gould and Lewontin's misapplication of the term spandrel for pendentive perhaps implies a wider latitude of design choice than they intended for their analogy. But Dennett's critique of the architectural basis of the analogy goes even further astray because he slights the technical rationale of the architectural elements in question.\"\n\nGould favored the argument that evolution has no inherent drive towards long-term \"progress\". Uncritical commentaries often portray evolution as a ladder of progress, leading towards bigger, faster, and smarter organisms, the assumption being that evolution is somehow driving organisms to get more complex and ultimately more like humankind. Gould argued that evolution's drive was not towards complexity, but towards diversification. Because life is constrained to begin with a simple starting point (like bacteria), any diversity resulting from this start, by random walk, will have a skewed distribution and therefore be perceived to move in the direction of higher complexity. But life, Gould argued, can also easily adapt towards simplification, as is often the case with parasites.\n\nIn a review of \"\", Richard Dawkins approved of Gould's general argument, but suggested that he saw evidence of a \"tendency for lineages to improve cumulatively their adaptive fit to their particular way of life, by increasing the numbers of features which combine together in adaptive complexes. ... By this definition, adaptive evolution is not just incidentally progressive, it is deeply, dyed-in-the-wool, indispensably progressive.\"\n\nGould never embraced cladistics as a method of investigating evolutionary lineages and process, possibly because he was concerned that such investigations would lead to neglect of the details in historical biology, which he considered all-important. In the early 1990s this led him into a debate with Derek Briggs, who had begun to apply quantitative cladistic techniques to the Burgess Shale fossils, about the methods to be used in interpreting these fossils. Around this time cladistics rapidly became the dominant method of classification in evolutionary biology. Inexpensive but increasingly powerful personal computers made it possible to process large quantities of data about organisms and their characteristics. Around the same time the development of effective polymerase chain reaction techniques made it possible to apply cladistic methods of analysis to biochemical and genetic features as well.\n\nMost of Gould's empirical research pertained to land snails. He focused his early work on the Bermudian genus \"Poecilozonites\", while his later work concentrated on the West Indian genus \"Cerion\". According to Gould \"\"Cerion\" is the land snail of maximal diversity in form throughout the entire world. There are 600 described species of this single genus. In fact, they're not really species, they all interbreed, but the names exist to express a real phenomenon which is this incredible morphological diversity. Some are shaped like golf balls, some are shaped like pencils. ... Now my main subject is the evolution of form, and the problem of how it is that you can get this diversity amid so little genetic difference, so far as we can tell, is a very interesting one. And if we could solve this we'd learn something general about the evolution of form.\"\n\nGiven \"Cerion's\" extensive geographic diversity, Gould later lamented that if Christopher Columbus had only catalogued a single \"Cerion\" it would have ended the scholarly debate about which island Columbus had first set foot on in America.\n\nGould is one of the most frequently cited scientists in the field of evolutionary theory. His 1979 \"spandrels\" paper has been cited more than 5,000 times. In \"Paleobiology\"—the flagship journal of his own speciality—only Charles Darwin and George Gaylord Simpson have been cited more often. Gould was also a considerably respected historian of science. Historian Ronald Numbers has been quoted as saying: \"I can't say much about Gould's strengths as a scientist, but for a long time I've regarded him as the second most influential historian of science (next to Thomas Kuhn).\"\n\nShortly before his death, Gould published \"The Structure of Evolutionary Theory\" (2002), a long treatise recapitulating his version of modern evolutionary theory. In an interview for the Dutch TV series \"Of Beauty and Consolation\" Gould remarked, \"In a couple of years I will be able to gather in one volume my view of how evolution works. It is to me a great consolation because it represents the putting together of a lifetime of thinking into one source. That book will never be particularly widely read. It's going to be far too long, and it's only for a few thousand professionals—very different from my popular science writings—but it is of greater consolation to me because it is a chance to put into one place a whole way of thinking about evolution that I've struggled with all my life.\"\n\nGould became widely known through his popular essays on evolution in the \"Natural History\" magazine. His essays were published in a series entitled \"This View of Life\" (a phrase from the concluding paragraph of Charles Darwin's \"Origin of Species\") from January 1974 to January 2001, amounting to a continuous publication of 300 essays. Many of his essays were reprinted in collected volumes that became bestselling books such as \"Ever Since Darwin\" and \"The Panda's Thumb\", \"Hen's Teeth and Horse's Toes\", and \"The Flamingo's Smile\".\n\nA passionate advocate of evolutionary theory, Gould wrote prolifically on the subject, trying to communicate his understanding of contemporary evolutionary biology to a wide audience. A recurring theme in his writings is the history and development of pre-evolutionary and evolutionary thought. He was also an enthusiastic baseball fan and sabermetrician (analyst of baseball statistics), and made frequent reference to the sport in his essays. Many of his baseball essays were anthologized in his posthumously published book \"Triumph and Tragedy in Mudville\" (2003).\n\nAlthough a self-described Darwinist, Gould's emphasis was less gradualist and reductionist than most neo-Darwinists. He fiercely opposed many aspects of sociobiology and its intellectual descendant evolutionary psychology. He devoted considerable time to fighting against creationism, creation science, and intelligent design. Most notably, Gould provided expert testimony against the equal-time creationism law in \"McLean v. Arkansas\". Gould later developed the term \"non-overlapping magisteria\" (NOMA) to describe how, in his view, science and religion should not comment on each other's realm. Gould went on to develop this idea in some detail, particularly in the books \"Rocks of Ages\" (1999) and \"The Hedgehog, the Fox, and the Magister's Pox\" (2003). In a 1982 essay for \"Natural History\" Gould wrote:\n\nAn \"anti-evolution petition\" drafted by the Discovery Institute inspired the National Center for Science Education to create a pro-evolution counterpart called \"Project Steve,\" which is named in Gould's honor. At a meeting of the executive council of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry (CSI) in 2011 selected Gould for inclusion in CSI's \"Pantheon of Skeptics\" created to remember the legacy of deceased CSI fellows and their contributions to the cause of scientific skepticism.\n\nGould also became a noted public face of science, often appearing on television. In 1984 Gould received his own \"NOVA\" special on PBS. Other appearances included interviews on CNN's \"Crossfire\" and \"Talkback Live\", NBC's \"The Today Show\", and regular appearances on PBS's \"Charlie Rose\" show. Gould was also a guest in all seven episodes of the Dutch talk series \"A Glorious Accident\", in which he appeared with his close friend Oliver Sacks.\n\nGould was featured prominently as a guest in Ken Burns's PBS documentary \"Baseball\", as well as PBS's \"Evolution\" series. Gould was also on the Board of Advisers to the influential Children's Television Workshop television show \"3-2-1 Contact\", where he made frequent guest appearances.\n\nSince 2013, Gould has been listed on the Advisory Council of the National Center for Science Education.\n\nIn 1997 he voiced a cartoon version of himself on the television series \"The Simpsons\". In the episode \"Lisa the Skeptic\", Lisa finds a skeleton that many people believe is an apocalyptic angel. Lisa contacts Gould and asks him to test the skeleton's DNA. The fossil is discovered to be a marketing gimmick for a new mall. During production the only phrase Gould objected to was a line in the script that introduced him as the \"world's most brilliant paleontologist\". In 2002 the show paid tribute to Gould after his death, dedicating the season 13 finale to his memory. Gould had died two days before the episode aired.\n\nGould received many accolades for his scholarly work and popular expositions of natural history, but a number of biologists felt his public presentations were out of step with mainstream evolutionary thinking. The public debates between Gould's supporters and detractors have been so quarrelsome that they have been dubbed \"The Darwin Wars\" by several commentators.\n\nJohn Maynard Smith, the eminent British evolutionary biologist, was among Gould's strongest critics. Maynard Smith thought that Gould misjudged the vital role of adaptation in biology, and was critical of Gould's acceptance of species selection as a major component of biological evolution. In a review of Daniel Dennett's book \"Darwin's Dangerous Idea\", Maynard Smith wrote that Gould \"is giving non-biologists a largely false picture of the state of evolutionary theory.\" But Maynard Smith was not consistently negative, writing in a review of \"The Panda's Thumb\" that \"Stephen Gould is the best writer of popular science now active... Often he infuriates me, but I hope he will go right on writing essays like these.\" Maynard Smith was also among those who welcomed Gould's reinvigoration of evolutionary paleontology.\n\nOne reason for criticism was that Gould appeared to be presenting his ideas as a revolutionary way of understanding evolution, and argued for the importance of mechanisms other than natural selection, mechanisms which he believed had been ignored by many professional evolutionists. As a result, many non-specialists sometimes inferred from his early writings that Darwinian explanations had been proven to be unscientific (which Gould never tried to imply). Along with many other researchers in the field, Gould's works were sometimes deliberately taken out of context by creationists as \"proof\" that scientists no longer understood how organisms evolved. Gould himself corrected some of these misinterpretations and distortions of his writings in later works.\n\nThe conflicts between Richard Dawkins and Gould were popularized by philosopher Kim Sterelny in his 2001 book \"Dawkins vs. Gould\". Sterelny documents their disagreements over theoretical issues, including the prominence of gene selection in evolution. Dawkins argues that natural selection is best understood as competition among genes (or replicators), while Gould advocated multi-level selection, which includes selection amongst genes, nucleic acid sequences, cell lineages, organisms, demes, species, and clades.\n\nDawkins accused Gould of deliberately underplaying the differences between rapid gradualism and macromutation in his published accounts of punctuated equilibrium. He also devoted entire chapters to critiquing Gould's account of evolution in his books \"The Blind Watchmaker\" and \"Unweaving the Rainbow\", as did Daniel Dennett in his 1995 book \"Darwin's Dangerous Idea\".\n\nIn his book \"Wonderful Life\" (1989) Gould famously described the Cambrian fauna of the Burgess Shale, emphasizing their bizarre anatomical designs, their sudden appearance, and the role chance played in determining which members survived. He used the Cambrian fauna as an example of the role contingency has in shaping the broader pattern of evolution.\n\nHis view of contingency was criticized by Simon Conway Morris in his 1998 book \"The Crucible of Creation\". Conway Morris stressed members of the Cambrian fauna that resemble modern taxa. He also argued that convergent evolution has a tendency to produce \"similarities of organization\" and that the forms of life are restricted and channelled. In his book \"Life's Solution\" (2003) Conway Morris argued that the appearance of human-like animals is also likely. Paleontologist Richard Fortey noted that prior to the release of \"Wonderful Life\", Conway Morris shared a similar thesis to Gould's, but after \"Wonderful Life\" Conway Morris revised his interpretation and adopted a more deterministic position on the history of life.\n\nPaleontologists Derek Briggs and Richard Fortey have also argued that much of the Cambrian fauna may be regarded as stem groups of living taxa, though this is still a subject of intense research and debate, and the relationship of many Cambrian taxa to modern phyla has not been established in the eyes of many palaeontologists.\n\nRichard Dawkins disagrees with the view that new phyla suddenly appeared in the Cambrian, arguing that for a new phylum \"to spring into existence, what actually has to happen on the ground is that a child is born which suddenly, out of the blue, is as different from its parents as a snail is from an earthworm. No zoologist who thinks through the implications, not even the most ardent saltationist, has ever supported any such notion.\" In the \"Structure of Evolutionary Theory\" Gould stresses the difference between phyletic splitting and large anatomical transitions, noting that the two events may be separated by millions of years. Gould argues that no paleontologist regards the Cambrian explosion \"as a genealogical event—that is as the actual time of initial splitting\", but rather it \"marks an anatomical transition in the overt phenotypes of bilaterian organisms.\"\n\nGould also had a long-running public feud with E. O. Wilson and other evolutionary biologists concerning the disciplines of human sociobiology and evolutionary psychology, both of which Gould and Lewontin opposed, but which Richard Dawkins, Daniel Dennett, and Steven Pinker advocated. These debates reached their climax in the 1970s, and included strong opposition from groups such as the Sociobiology Study Group and Science for the People. Pinker accuses Gould, Lewontin, and other opponents of evolutionary psychology of being \"radical scientists\", whose stance on human nature is influenced by politics rather than science. Gould stated that he made \"no attribution of motive in Wilson's or anyone else's case\" but cautioned that all human beings are influenced, especially unconsciously, by our personal expectations and biases. He wrote:\n\nGould's primary criticism held that human sociobiological explanations lacked evidential support, and argued that adaptive behaviors are frequently assumed to be genetic for no other reason than their supposed universality, or their adaptive nature. Gould emphasized that adaptive behaviors can be passed on through culture as well, and either hypothesis is equally plausible. Gould did not deny the relevance of biology to human nature, but reframed the debate as \"biological potentiality vs. biological determinism.\" Gould stated that the human brain allows for a wide range of behaviors. Its flexibility \"permits us to be aggressive or peaceful, dominant or submissive, spiteful or generous… Violence, sexism, and general nastiness \"are\" biological since they represent one subset of a possible range of behaviors. But peacefulness, equality, and kindness are just as biological—and we may see their influence increase if we can create social structures that permit them to flourish.\"\n\nGould was the author of \"The Mismeasure of Man\" (1981), a history and inquiry of psychometrics and intelligence testing, generating perhaps the greatest controversy of all his books and receiving both widespread praise and extensive criticism, including claims of misrepresentation. Gould investigated the methods of nineteenth century craniometry, as well as the history of psychological testing. Gould claimed that both theories developed from an unfounded belief in biological determinism, the view that \"social and economic differences between human groups—primarily races, classes, and sexes—arise from inherited, inborn distinctions and that society, in this sense, is an accurate reflection of biology.\" The book was reprinted in 1996 with the addition of a new foreword and a critical review of \"The Bell Curve\".\n\nIn 2011, a study conducted by six anthropologists criticized Gould's claim that Samuel Morton unconsciously manipulated his skull measurements, arguing that his analysis of Morton was influenced by his opposition to racism. The group's paper was briefly reviewed in the journal \"Nature\", which recommended a degree of caution, noting that while Gould's opposition to racism might have biased his interpretation of Morton's data, the paper's authors had biases of their own. In 2015, the group's paper was critically reviewed in the journal \"Evolution & Development\" by philosopher of science Michael Weisberg, who argued that Gould's arguments were sound and that Morton's initial measurements were indeed tainted by racial bias. Biologists and philosophers Jonathan Kaplan, Massimo Pigliucci, and Joshua Banta also published a critique of the groups's paper, arguing that many of its claims were misleading and the re-measurements were irrelevant to an analysis of Gould's arguments.\n\nIn his book \"Rocks of Ages\" (1999), Gould put forward what he described as \"a blessedly simple and entirely conventional resolution to ... the supposed conflict between science and religion.\" He defines the term \"magisterium\" as \"a domain where one form of teaching holds the appropriate tools for meaningful discourse and resolution.\" The non-overlapping magisteria (NOMA) principle therefore divides the magisterium of science to cover \"the empirical realm: what the Universe is made of (fact) and why does it work in this way (theory). The magisterium of religion extends over questions of ultimate meaning and moral value. These two magisteria do not overlap, nor do they encompass all inquiry.\" He suggests that \"NOMA enjoys strong and fully explicit support, even from the primary cultural stereotypes of hard-line traditionalism\" and that NOMA is \"a sound position of general consensus, established by long struggle among people of goodwill in both magisteria.\"\n\nThis view has not been without criticism, however. For example, in his book \"The God Delusion\", Richard Dawkins argues that the division between religion and science is not so simple as Gould claims, as few religions exist without claiming the existence of miracles, which \"by definition, violate the principles of science.\" Dawkins also opposes the idea that religion has anything meaningful to say about ethics and values, and therefore has no authority to claim a magisterium of its own. He goes on to say that he believes Gould is disingenuous in much of what he says in \"Rocks of Ages\". Similarly, humanist philosopher Paul Kurtz argues that Gould was wrong to posit that science has nothing to say about questions of ethics. In fact, Kurtz claims that science is a much better method than religion for determining moral principles.\n\nGould's publications were numerous. One review of his publications between 1965 and 2000 noted 479 peer-reviewed papers, 22 books, 300 essays, and 101 \"major\" book reviews. A selected number of his papers are listed online.\n\nThe following is a list of books either written or edited by Stephen Jay Gould, including those published posthumously, after his death in 2002. While some books have been republished at later dates, by multiple publishers, the list below comprises the original publisher and publishing date.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894059", "title": "Suicide prevention", "text": "Suicide prevention\n\nSuicide prevention is an umbrella term used for the collective efforts of local citizen organizations, health professionals and related professionals to reduce the incidence of suicide. Beyond direct interventions to stop an impending suicide, methods also involve: \n\nGeneral efforts have included preventive and proactive measures within the realms of medicine and mental health, as well as public health and other fields. Because protective factors such as social support and social engagement — as well as environmental risk factors such as access to lethal means — apparently play some significant roles in suicide prevention, suicide should not be viewed solely as neither a medical issue nor a mental health issue. Suicide prevention is risky for health professionals in terms of practitioner emotional distress and risk for malpractice suits.\n\nBeing aware of the warning signs of suicide can allow individuals to direct people who may be considering suicide to get help.\n\nWarning signs include:\n\n\nAdditionally, the national institute for mental health includes feeling burdonsome, and strong feelings of pain--either emotional or physical--as warning signs that someone may intend attempt suicide.\n\nSome signs that someone may attempt suicide include: \n\nThe U.S. Surgeon General has suggested that screening to detect those at risk of suicide may be one of the most effective means of preventing suicide in children and adolescents.\nThere are various screening tools in the form of self-report questionnaires to help identify those at risk such as the Beck Hopelessness Scale and Is Path Warm?. A number of these self-report questionnaires have been tested and found to be effective for use among adolescents and young adults. There is however a high rate of false-positive identification and those deemed to be at risk should ideally have a follow-up clinical interview. The predictive quality of these screening questionnaires has not been conclusively validated so it is not possible to determine if those identified at risk of suicide will actually commit suicide. Asking about or screening for suicide does not create or increase the risk.\n\nIn approximately 75 percent of completed suicides, the individuals had seen a physician within the year before their death, including 45 to 66 percent within the prior month. Approximately 33 to 41 percent of those who completed suicide had contact with mental health services in the prior year, including 20 percent within the prior month. These studies suggest an increased need for effective screening. Many suicide risk assessment measures are not sufficiently validated, and do not include all three core suicidality attributes (i.e., suicidal affect, behavior, and cognition).\n\nThe conservative estimate is that 10% of individuals with psychiatric disorders may have an undiagnosed medical condition causing their symptoms, upwards of 50% may have an undiagnosed medical condition which if not causing is exacerbating their psychiatric symptoms. Illegal drugs and prescribed medications may also produce psychiatric symptoms. Effective diagnosis and if necessary medical testing which may include neuroimaging to diagnose and treat any such medical conditions or medication side effects may reduce the risk of suicidal ideation as a result of psychiatric symptoms, most often including depression, which are present in up to 90–95% of cases.\n\nMany methods have been developed in an effort to prevent suicide. The general methods include: direct talks, screening for risks, lethal means reduction and social intervention. The medication lithium may be useful in certain situations to reduce the risk of suicide. Talk therapies including phone delivery of services may also help. \n\nAn effective way to assess suicidal thoughts is to talk with the person directly, to ask about depression, and assess suicide plans as to how and when it might be attempted. Contrary to popular misconceptions, talking with people about suicide does not plant the idea in their heads. However, such discussions and questions should be asked with care, concern and compassion. The tactic is to reduce sadness and provide assurance that other people care. The WHO advises to not say everything will be all right nor make the problem seem trivial, nor give false assurances about serious issues. The discussions should be gradual and specifically executed when the person is comfortable about discussing his or her feelings. ICARE (Identify the thought, Connect with it, Assess evidences for it, Restructure the thought in positive light, Express or provide room for expressing feelings from the restructured thought) is a model of approach used here.\n\nMeans reduction, reducing the odds that a suicide attempter will use highly lethal means, is an important component of suicide prevention. This practice is also called \"means restriction\".\n\nResearchers and health policy planners have theorized and demonstrated that restricting lethal means can help reduce suicide rates, as delaying action until depression passes. In general, strong evidence supports the effectiveness of means restriction in preventing suicides. There is also strong evidence that restricted access at so-called suicide hotspots, such as bridges and cliffs, reduces suicides, whereas other interventions such as placing signs or increasing surveillance at these sites appears less effective. One of the most famous historical examples, of means reduction, is that of coal gas in the United Kingdom. Until the 1950s, the most common means of suicide in the UK was poisoning by gas inhalation. In 1958, natural gas (virtually free of carbon monoxide) was introduced, and over the next decade, comprised over 50% of gas used. As carbon monoxide in gas decreased, suicides also decreased. The decrease was driven entirely by dramatic decreases in the number of suicides by carbon monoxide poisoning.\n\nIn the United States, numerous studies have concluded that firearm access is associated with increased suicide completion. \"About 85% of attempts with a firearm are fatal: that's a much higher case fatality rate than for nearly every other method. Many of the most widely used suicide attempt methods have case fatality rates below 5%.\" Although restrictions on access to firearms have reduced firearm suicide rates in other countries, such restrictions were not feasible in the United States because the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution based on late 1600s English bill of rights limits the potential for regulation laws but broadly restricting firearms access to at-risk individuals is gaining stakeholder's attention as a preventive measure.\n\nNational Strategy for Suicide Prevention promotes and sponsors various specific suicide prevention endeavors:\n\n\nIt has also been suggested by NSSP that media should prevent romanticising of negative emotions and coping strategies which can lead to vicarious traumatization. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (from a 1994 workshop) and the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention (1999) have suggested that TV shows and news media can help prevent suicide by linking suicide with negative outcomes such as pain for the suicide and their survivors, conveying that the majority of people choose something other than suicide in order to solve their problems, avoiding mentioning suicide epidemics, and avoiding presenting authorities or sympathetic, ordinary people as spokespersons for the reasonableness of suicide.\n\nPostvention is for people affected by an individual's suicide, this intervention facilitates grieving, guides to reduce guilt, anxiety, and depression and to decrease the effects of trauma. Bereavement is ruled out and promoted for catharsis and supporting their adaptive capacities before intervening depression and any psychiatric disorders. Postvention is also provided to intervene to minimize the risk of imitative or copycat suicides, but there is a lack of evidence based standard protocol. But the general goal of the mental health practitioner is to decrease the likelihood of others identifying with the suicidal behavior of the deceased as a coping strategy in dealing with adversity.\n\nRecent research has shown that lithium has been effective with lowering the risk of suicide in those with bipolar disorder to the same levels as the general population. Lithium has also proven effective in lowering the suicide risk in those with unipolar depression as well.\n\nThere are multiple evidence-based psychotherapeutic talk therapies available to reduce suicidal ideation such as dialectical behavior therapy (DBT) for which multiple studies have reported varying degrees of clinical effectiveness in reducing suicidality. Benefits include a reduction in self-harm behaviours and suicidal ideations. Cognitive Behavior Therapy for Suicide Prevention (CBT-SP) is a form of DBT adapted for adolescents at high risk for repeated suicide attempts.\n\nThe World Health Organization recommends \"specific skills should be available in the education system to prevent bullying and violence in and around the school premises in order to create a safe environment free of intolerance\".\n\nCoping planning is an innovative strengths-based intervention that aims to meet the needs of people who ask for help, including those experiencing suicidal ideation. By addressing \"why\" someone asks for help, the risk assessment and management stays on what the person needs, and the needs assessment focuses on the individual needs of each person. The Coping Planning approach to suicide prevention draws on the health-focused theory of coping. Coping is normalized as a normal and universal human response to unpleasant emotions and interventions are considered a change continuum of low intensity (e.g. self-soothing) to high intensity support (e.g. professional help). By planning for coping, it supports people who are distressed and provides a sense of belongingness and resilience in treatment of illness. The proactive coping planning approach overcomes implications of ironic process theory.The biopsychosocial strategy of training people in healthy coping improves emotional regulation and decreases memories of unpleasant emotions. A good coping planning strategically reduces the inattentional blindness for a person while developing resilience and regulation strengths.\n\nMany non-profit organizations exist, such as the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention in the United States, which serve as crisis hotlines; it has benefited from at least one crowd-sourced campaign. The first documented program aimed at preventing suicide was initiated in 1906 in both New York, the National Save-A-Life League and in London, the Suicide Prevention Department of the Salvation Army.\n\nSuicide prevention interventions fall into two broad categories: prevention targeted at the level of the individual and prevention targeted at the level of the population. To identify, review, and disseminate information about best practices to address specific objectives of the National Strategy Best Practices Registry (BPR) was initiated. The Best Practices Registry of Suicide Prevention Resource Center is a registry of various suicide intervention programs maintained by the American Association of Suicide Prevention. The programs are divided, with those in Section I listing evidence-based programs: interventions which have been subjected to indepth review and for which evidence has demonstrated positive outcomes. Section III programs have been subjected to review.\n\nVan Orden et al. (2010) posited that there are two major factors involved in suicide attempts. The first major factor is a \"desire for death\" and the second \"acquired capability\". Desire for death occurs through ideations of \"thwarted belongingness.\" It is described as feeling alienated from others emotionally and \"perceived burdensomeness\" which is described as feeling that one is incompetent and therefore a burden on others. The acquired capability in this context is used because people naturally fear death and painful experiences. The capability to carry out the suicide attempt is usually formed from emotional and physical pain and disrupted cognitive status and is acquired through previous suicide attempts (self-directed violence), rehearsing suicide through behavior or imagery, and getting used to painful or dangerous experiences in other ways.\n\nIndividuals who are suicidal often have tunnel vision about the situation and consider permanence of suicide as an easy way out of a difficult situation. Other significant risk factors for suicide include psychiatric disorders, substance abuse, etc. Individuals who have good interpersonal social relationship and family support tend to have lower risk of suicide. People who have greater self-control, greater self-efficacy, intact reality-testing, and more adaptive coping skills are at less risk. Those who are hopeful, have future plans or events to look forward to, and have satisfaction in life are considered to have protective factors against suicide.\n\nSuicide is the act of deliberately killing oneself or, more specifically, an act deliberately initiated and performed by the person concerned in the full knowledge, or expectation, of its fatal outcome.\n\nIn recognition of the need for comprehensive approaches to suicide prevention, various strategies have been developed with the support of evidence. The traditional approach has been to identify the risk factors that increase suicide or self-harm, though meta-analysis studies suggest that suicide risk assessment might not be useful and recommend immediate hospitalization of the person with suicidal feelings as the healthy choice. In 2001, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, under the direction of the Surgeon General, published the National Strategy for Suicide Prevention, establishing a framework for suicide prevention in the U.S. The document calls for a public health approach to suicide prevention, focusing on identifying patterns of suicide and suicidal ideation throughout a group or population (as opposed to exploring the history and health conditions that could lead to suicide in a single individual). The ability to recognize warning signs of suicide allows individuals who may be concerned about someone they know to direct them to help.\n\nSuicide gesture and suicidal desire (a vague wish for death without any actual intent to kill oneself) are potentially self-injurious behaviors that a person may use to attain some other ends, like to seek help, punish others, or to receive attention. This behavior has the potential to aid an individual’s capability for suicide and can be considered as a suicide warning, when the person shows intent through verbal and behavioral signs.\n\nSuicide prevention strategies focus on reducing the risk factors and intervening strategically to reduce the level of risk. Risk and protective factors, unique to the individual can be assessed by a qualified mental health professional.\n\nSome of the specific strategies used to address are:\n\n\nPsychotherapies that have shown most successful or evidence based are Dialectical behavior therapy (DBT), it has shown to be helpful in reducing suicide attempts and reducing hospitalizations for suicidal ideation and Cognitive therapy (CBT), it has shown to improve problem-solving and coping abilities.\n\nIndividuals with access to proper mental health care, a sense of belonging, good problem solving skills, and a system of beliefs that discourages suicide are less likely to attempt suicide.\n\nIn the United States it is estimated that an episode of suicide results in costs of about $1.3 million. Money spending on appropriated interventions is estimated to result in a decrease in economic loses that are 2.5 fold greater than the amount spent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21038935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21038935", "title": "Taliq Abdelharam Sharif", "text": "Taliq Abdelharam Sharif\n\nTaliq Abedelharam Sharif (born April 28, 1982) is a politician, Sudanese national, pirate and entrepreneur who has risen to worldwide fame through his efforts to keep the peace in his native Central Africa. He has recently come under strong criticism in regard to accusations of aiding the notorious Janjaweed rebels in the Sudan.\n\nTaliq was born in northern Djibouti to unknown parents who were reportedly brutally murdered by Sudanese rebels shortly after his birth. He was raised by a family that had immigrated from Chad to escape the wars there and had come to Djibouti seeking peace. Little is known about his early life, except that he was known throughout his village as a boy who was always mediating conflicts and ending disputes. He is described as well loved by all who knew him. He received no formal education past the third grade, and left home at the age of twelve to find work in the dockyards in the coastal regions of Djibouti. He worked there for several years, but for unknown reasons became involved with a small pirate group which preyed upon foreign oil vessels passing through the area. The band, known as The Cleansing Tide, was unusual for outlaw groups in the area, as it was reputed to have commonly given the funds it received to local widows and orphanages. It is still unclear why the group did this, but it has been suggested that the group did this in order to build up local support.\n\nAfter several years with the group, Taliq rose to such a position of influence that he came to be recognized as its effecutal leader. During this period, which began around 1999, the group's attacks against foreign vessels, most especially French, increased. Also around this time, Taliq began sending large sums of money, presumably taken from ransom payments, to relief groups in Chad that were protecting Sudanese refugees. Again, motivation for these payments are unclear.\n\nTaliq is currently the subject of allegations that he is funding the Janjaweed Militia in the Sudan. These allegations, made by the French Media, have proven on some occasions to be unfounded. However, he was proven guilty in mid-January 2009 in his ICC court case. As of now, Taliq reportedly is perceived in Chad, the Sudan, and Djibouti as one who has worked to redistribute international wealth in favor of those in need. At the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize Nominations, Taliq was described as 'a modern Robin Hood'.\n"}
{"id": "138615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=138615", "title": "Thomas, West Virginia", "text": "Thomas, West Virginia\n\nThomas is a very small city and former coal town in Tucker County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 586 at the 2010 census.\n\nThomas was platted in 1884. Thomas was named for Thomas Beall Davis (1828-1911), brother of Senator Henry Gassaway Davis. The Davis brothers, in 1883, opened a mine near Thomas and had coal ready to ship when their railway arrived a year later. By 1892, Davis Coal and Coke was among the largest and best known coal companies in the world and employed 1,600 people. At the peak of its operations in 1915, there were nine producing mines within a mile of the company's office in Thomas.\n\nImmigrants flocked to the area as miners, railroad laborers, or merchants. The Company employed a man named Wladyslaw Dackiewicz as an interpreter. He could speak, read, and write eight languages and his services were much in demand with the influx of immigrants.\n\nIn 1901, in less than two hours, nearly half of Thomas (83 buildings) was destroyed by a fire. The city was quickly rebuilt with fine hotels and a new opera house. The Cottrill Opera House had a saloon on the first floor which was by far the most elegant of the eight bars located on Front Street. In 1909, Front Street (also known as First Street, Main Street, and East Avenue) was laid with brick to become the first paved street in the county.\n\nThomas claimed the grandest railway station between Cumberland, Maryland, and Elkins, West Virginia. Built of brick in 1901. It was destroyed by a tornado in 1944.\n\nIn 1921, coke production ceased and mining operations have diminished.\n\nThe Cottrill Opera House, Davis Coal and Coke Company Administrative Building, Fairfax Stone, and Thomas Commercial Historic District are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nThomas is located at (39.148077, -79.497174), along the North Fork of the Blackwater River.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of , of which, is land and is water.\n\nThe climate in this area has mild differences between highs and lows, and there is adequate rainfall year-round. According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Thomas has a marine west coast climate, abbreviated \"Cfb\" on climate maps.\n\nAs of the census of 2010, there were 586 people, 253 households, and 130 families residing in the city. The population density was . There were 345 housing units at an average density of . The racial makeup of the city was 99.5% White, 0.2% Native American, and 0.3% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.3% of the population.\n\nThere were 253 households of which 17.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 37.2% were married couples living together, 7.9% had a female householder with no husband present, 6.3% had a male householder with no wife present, and 48.6% were non-families. 42.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 22.1% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 1.95 and the average family size was 2.62.\n\nThe median age in the city was 56.6 years. 11.3% of residents were under the age of 18; 5.4% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 19.2% were from 25 to 44; 28.8% were from 45 to 64; and 35.2% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the city was 46.8% male and 53.2% female.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 452 people, 224 households, and 127 families residing in the city. The population density was 753.6 people per square mile (290.9/km²). There were 280 housing units at an average density of 466.8 per square mile (180.2/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 98.67% White, and 1.33% from two or more races.\n\nThere were 224 households out of which 16.5% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 46.0% were married couples living together, 7.6% had a female householder with no husband present, and 42.9% were non-families. 39.7% of all households were made up of individuals and 23.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.02 and the average family size was 2.69.\n\nIn the city, the population was spread out with 15.0% under the age of 18, 5.5% from 18 to 24, 24.1% from 25 to 44, 33.8% from 45 to 64, and 21.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 48 years. For every 100 females, there were 85.2 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 87.3 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the city was $22,443, and the median income for a family was $25,417. Males had a median income of $27,188 versus $14,886 for females. The per capita income for the city was $14,918. About 13.8% of families and 13.7% of the population were below the poverty line, including 19.1% of those under age 18 and 11.5% of those age 65 or over.\n\n"}
{"id": "23234260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23234260", "title": "Tony Berry", "text": "Tony Berry\n\nAnthony Berry (born 1941) was the founder of Blue Arrow recruitment agency.\n\nBrought up in Tottenham and educated at The Latymer School in Edmonton, Berry played cricket for \"Middlesex Young Amateurs\" and became an apprentice football professional for Tottenham Hotspur.\n\nBerry qualified as management accountant with Guinness before joining the management team of an office cleaning company where he worked throughout the 1970s. In 1981 he bought a controlling stake in Blue Arrow, a small recruitment business in St Albans, which he built into the United Kingdom's largest recruitment agency and a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index. \n\nTony Berry was forced to retire in 1989. He subsequently became Deputy Chairman of Tottenham Hotspur.\n"}
{"id": "44501495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44501495", "title": "Tos Chirathivat", "text": "Tos Chirathivat\n\nTos Chirathivat is the chief executive officer (CEO) of the Central Group and head of one of Thailand's leading family business groups. The Central Group owns more than 60 department stores and shopping malls. It also operates hotels and restaurants, with a total of 5,000 outlets. He and his family are among the richest families in Thailand. Several shell corporations registered under Chirathivat's name in Nevada were exposed as part of the Panama Papers document dump in April 2016.\n\nTos became CEO of the Central Group on 29 November 2013.\nFrom 2002 through 2013, Tos was CEO of Central Retailing, the group’s retail-development arm. In this role, Tos focused on international expansion. The company opened three department stores in China in 2010 and 2011. They also made several key acquisitions in Europe, purchasing the Italian retailer La Rinascente in 2011, the Illum department store in Copenhagen, and Germany's KaDeWe. International operations now account for roughly 30 percent of group revenue.\n\nTos Chirathivat also served in several executive director roles at Big C Super Center, Robinson Department Store, and B2S Company Ltd.\nHe briefly worked at Citibank after university.\n\nTos comes from the well-known Chirathivat clan. His grandfather, Tiang, was a member of Thailand's commercially prominent Thai-Chinese community and founded the Central Group in 1947. His father, Samrit, served as chairman of the Central Group for 21 years and opened the first shopping center in Thailand in 1957.\nTos, born in 1964, is the youngest of eight children. Growing up, he was very quiet and considered designing cars as a profession. He and his close-knit family lived on a 12-house compound in Bangkok.\nHe and his wife Sookta have two sons.\n\nTos earned an economics degree from Wesleyan University in Connecticut in 1985 and received his MBA from Columbia University in New York in 1987. He spent a year of high school studying at a private school in Miami.\n"}
{"id": "463876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=463876", "title": "Transport Tycoon", "text": "Transport Tycoon\n\nTransport Tycoon is a video game designed and programmed by Chris Sawyer, and published by MicroProse in 1994. It is a business simulation game, presented in an isometric view in 2D with graphics by Simon Foster, in which the player acts as an entrepreneur in control of a transport company, and can compete against rival companies to make as much profit as possible by transporting passengers and various goods by road, rail, sea and air.\n\nTransport Tycoon Deluxe is an expanded and improved version of the original game, released in 1995. A version for Android and iOS was released on 3 October 2013 using assets from the sequel, \"Chris Sawyer's Locomotion\". A fan-made game engine recreation \"OpenTTD\" is also available.\n\nTo start building a transport empire, the player must construct transport routes, consisting of stations near industries or towns, and in the case of trains or road vehicles, near physical routes. One transport route can utilize several different forms of transport, e.g. truck→ship→train. The player's company and the individual stations each have ratings that depend largely on their efficiency at moving goods from one stations to the other. A station with high ratings may attract more goods.\n\nThe game begins in 1930, and ends in 2030. The player starts out by borrowing money to finance construction of transport facilities, and is charged interest until the loan is repaid. As the user plays the game and earns revenues, they have the choice of expanding service along existing routes, or expanding their transportation network. The game features a progression of technology: in any particular year of the game generally only contemporary types of technology are available. For example, railroad signals which allow more than one train to use a section of track are initially semaphores. Later, they are replaced by red and green traffic-light signals. Similarly, in the beginning there are only steam engines, but later diesel and electric engines are introduced. In the game year 1999, monorails become available. These require a separate track system from railroads. If the player remains in business until 2030, the game announces that they have won, allows them to post their name on the \"hall of fame\" and then continues. At this point, the year stays 2030 and never goes any higher, although the game can continue indefinitely. Playing the entire 100-year campaign takes about 40 hours. The game allows the player to save at any time, and multiple saves of a particular game at any point are possible.\n\nVehicles in the game must be constructed at corresponding depots, which must be connected to the road or rail networks. Towns and cities have their own road networks, but extra roads may be needed to connect them to other towns, or to various resources.\n\nThe player earns revenue by picking up resources or passengers at a certain station, and delivering them to another station where there is a demand for them. Demand is determined by the area which surrounds the station; for example stations close to towns will demand passengers. The revenues will depend on the delivery time, distance, and quantity delivered. The influence of these factors on revenue varies according to the type of goods being delivered. For example, mail will rapidly fall in value, meaning that it can only be delivered profitably over short distances, or over long distances very fast. On the other hand, coal loses value very slowly, so it can be transported in bulk over long distances whilst remaining profitable.\n\nAt times, subsidies are offered to the first company to move a particular resource from one place to another. This encourages the player to create a larger more complex transport network, rather than focusing on previously profitable routes.\n\nThe game features a system of Local Authority. Each city has a rating for every transport company based on the impact of their transport network. When the rating falls too low, the player will no longer be able to demolish buildings or construct new stations. The rating depends on, among others, the level of service and the deforestation caused by the company.\n\nIn the course of a game cities develop and expand according to various economic factors, and new industries (demand) or other resource sites (supply) may appear. Some natural resources may also eventually be exhausted and industries without adequate transport service may shut down. Also, new models of vehicles are introduced and eventually come to replace older models. At introduction such a new model will likely have improved characteristics, but may suffer from reliability issues.\n\nThe music in \"Transport Tycoon\" are original compositions by John Broomhall. It features old-style blues and jazz tunes including parts of Herbie Hancock's Cantaloupe Island.\n\nA reviewer for \"Next Generation\" gave the DOS version four out of five stars, commenting, \"The best economic sim since \"Civilization\", Microprose's new \"Transport Tycoon\" has all the features of Sid Meier's \"Railroad Tycoon\" mixed with the look and ease of Maxis' \"SimCity 2000\" and a host of new features ... that give the game a feel that is all its own.\" He further lauded the game for its graphics, \"pleasant\" music, sound effects, addictive play, and realistic simulation of the growth of cities and towns.\n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the \"Transport Tycoon Scenario\", rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"A solid upgrade for a great game.\"\n\nA \"World Editor\" expansion pack was also released for the original \"Transport Tycoon\", but was overshadowed by the Deluxe version released shortly afterward. It featured an alternative, Martian set of graphics, which did \"not\" appear in TTD.\n\n\"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\" is an expanded and improved version of the original game.\n\nThe primary difference between the games is how signals operate. The original \"Transport Tycoon\" allows only \"bi-directional signals\", which allow trains to pass in either direction. The deluxe version introduced \"uni-directional signals\", that only allow a train to pass in a single direction. The change in gameplay from this alteration to signals is significant, as the old bi-directional signals would allow a train to travel in both directions. This is similar in concept to having a single lane street that would allow traffic from either end. Unsurprisingly, it was possible for two trains to try to travel in opposing directions towards each other on the same run of track. While this would not result in crashes on a properly signaled route, it required either the building of extra track to allow the trains to pass each other, or the building of a great many tracks in parallel to avoid the problem in the first place.\n\nThe new uni-directional signals allowed one-way tracks to be built, which gives the player much greater control over how the railway network could be run. This allowed for efficient routes to be built, and prevented trains from trying to travel the \"wrong way\" down a section of track. By incorporating both uni-directional and bi-directional signals, effective switching yards, junctions, and other useful designs could be built. It also unlocked the ability to build continental-length railroad systems by incorporating one-way rails in both directions and the ability to merge other rails with the main one. This is a highly used strategy because it allows for intercontinental transport of goods which results in high return rates for the player.\n\nThe deluxe version also expanded the game to provide tropical, Arctic, and toy-town environments, as well as the classic temperate environment. The new environments came with different industries and challenges. For example, towns in the Arctic environment would not grow without regular deliveries of food, and those in the tropical environment also need access to fresh water. The main game runs over the course of a century, from 1950 to 2050.\n\nDue to trademark issues with using names of real vehicles in the original \"Transport Tycoon\", the default names were replaced with fictional ones in \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\". Players however are allowed to rename their vehicles and stations as they please, which can be useful for identifying individual services in a network. Players are also able to rename towns, which provides for a more personalized game play.\n\nAfter the success of \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\", Chris Sawyer turned his attention towards a sequel, but during development he changed his mind and produced \"RollerCoaster Tycoon\", which turned out to be a runaway hit. After \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 2\" was done, work on the third version was left to another development team, and Sawyer returned to work on a \"Transport Tycoon\" sequel, \"Chris Sawyer's Locomotion\". It was released in September 2004 and was described by Sawyer as the \"spiritual successor to \"Transport Tycoon\"\".\n\nIt received poor reviews and was deemed a commercial failure on release, but sales through the digital rereleases are unknown. Regardless, there is an active \"Locomotion\" community that continues to produce modifications.\n\nOn 15 July 2013, Sawyer's 31X Ltd and Origin8 Technologies announced that they were working on a mobile version of Transport Tycoon. Sawyer was originally focusing on funding for the game but ended up overseeing the design and helped with the debugging. The game was released for iOS and Android on 3 October 2013. The game is single player and uses graphics from \"Chris Sawyer's Locomotion\".\n\nSeveral development teams are currently working to improve \"Transport Tycoon\". \"TTDPatch\" provides gameplay enhancements and numerous bugfixes to \"TTD\" by patching the original binary.\n\n\"OpenTTD\" is an open source complete recreation of \"Transport Tycoon Deluxe\", achieved by reverse engineering the original game. It delivers many bug fixes and general enhancements to the game, like making it possible to run \"TTD\" on multiple platforms, including Mac, Linux, PSP, and Android. While both games allow new graphic sets for vehicles and terrain to be used, at present, \"TTDPatch\" still requires the original \"TTD\" graphics, sounds, binary and music files to run. While \"OpenTTD\" can still use the original \"TTD\" graphics and sounds, it does not need any of the \"TTD\" files to run as it has free graphics and sounds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53763001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53763001", "title": "Ujwal Thapa", "text": "Ujwal Thapa\n\nUjwal Thapa () is a Nepalese youth leader and activist, entrepreneur and social worker. He is the president of youth party Bibeksheel Nepali. He has been leading Bibeksheel Nepali in which different youth staged protests at Maitighar Mandala in support of senior orthopaedic surgeon of Tribhuwan University Maharajganj Teaching Hospital Dr. Govinda K.C. who has been in fast-unto-death for reforms in Medical Sector. He also led a symbolic protest against members of Legislature Parliament of Nepal at Baneshwor, Kathmandu demanding affordable medical facilities for the citizens.\n\nHe along with another CPN-UML youth leader Yogesh Bhattarai has demanded youth issues to be focussed in the upcoming local level election.\n\nHe had participated as an independent candidate in the Nepalese Constituent Assembly election, 2013 from Kathmandu Constituency Number 5.\n\nIn 2002, he developed Max Digital Solutions, a website development and software branding business. He then helped to build WordPress Nepal, an IT community of Nepal. He has established Shangrila Coffee, a coffee farm in Syangja district on 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "2397993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2397993", "title": "United States Rubber Company", "text": "United States Rubber Company\n\nThe United States Rubber Company (Uniroyal) is an American manufacturer of tires and other synthetic rubber-related products, as well as variety of items for military use, such as ammunition, explosives and operations and maintenance activities (O&MA) at the government-owned contractor-operated facilities. It was founded in Naugatuck, Connecticut, in 1892. It was one of the original 12 stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, and became Uniroyal, Inc., as part of creating a unified brand for its products and subsidiaries in 1961. In 1990, Uniroyal was acquired by French tire maker Michelin and ceased to exist as a separate business. Today around 1,000 workers in the U.S. remain employed by Michelin to make its Uniroyal brand products. The company's long-lived advertisement slogan was \"\"United States Tires are Good Tires\".\"\n\nOne of Uniroyal's best known tires is the \"Tiger Paw\" introduced in the 1960s and included as original equipment for that decade's muscle cars such as the Pontiac GTO, which itself was promoted as The Tiger during its early years. Today, Uniroyal still uses the Tiger Paw brand name in its tire line.\n\nIn North America, Colombia and Peru, the Uniroyal brand has been owned by Michelin since 1990, and outside those regions, the Uniroyal brand has been owned by Continental AG since 1979 following their acquisition of Uniroyal Europe, formerly known as Englebert.\n\nBy 1892, there were many rubber manufacturing companies in Naugatuck, Connecticut, as well as elsewhere in Connecticut. Nine companies consolidated their operations in Naugatuck to become the United States Rubber Company. It should be noted that one of the nine, Goodyear's India Rubber Glove Mfg. Co. (named Litchfield Rubber Co. until 1847) – which manufactured rubber gloves for telegraph linemen – was the only company in which Charles Goodyear, inventor of the rubber vulcanization process, is known to have owned stock.\n\nFrom 1892 to 1913, the rubber footwear divisions of U.S. Rubber manufactured their products under 30 different brand names, including the Wales-Goodyear Shoe Co. The company consolidated these footwear brands under one name, Keds, in 1916, and were mass-marketed as the first flexible rubber-sole with canvas-top \"sneakers\" in 1917.\n\nOn May 26, 1896, Charles Dow created the Dow Industrial average of twelve industrial manufacturing stocks, which included among them U.S. Rubber Company. When the average expanded to a list of 20 stocks in 1916, U.S. Rubber remained, however the listing expanded to 30 stocks in 1928 and U.S. Rubber was dropped.\nIn an effort to increase its share of the automobile tire market in 1931, U.S. Rubber Company bought a substantial portion of the Gillette Safety Tire Company. The company was founded in 1916 by Raymond B. Gillette and its primary manufacturing plant was located in Eau Claire, Wisconsin. The Gillette plant held large contracts with the General Motors Corporation and with the addition of U.S. Rubber products, became one of the world's largest suppliers of original equipment tires. U.S. Rubber produced tires under the Gillette, Ward, Atlas, U.S. Rubber and U.S. Royal brands.\n\nIn 1940, U.S. Rubber purchased the remainder of the Gillette Safety Tire Company, and began to expand and modernize the Eau Claire factory, greatly increasing production. During World War II, U.S. Rubber factories were devoted to production of war goods, and produced military truck and airplane tires, as well as the canvas-top, rubber-soled Jungle boot for soldiers and marines serving in tropical and jungle environments. U.S. Rubber ranked 37th among United States corporations in the value of wartime production contracts.\n\nIn 1942, the United States government restricted the sale of scarce rubber products for civilian use and production at the plant dwindled. The company sold the Eau Claire plant to the government, which then converted it for the manufacture of small caliber ammunition and renamed it the Eau Claire Ordnance plant.\n\nBy December 31, 1943, the need for tires outweighed the need for ammunition. U.S. Rubber repurchased the plant from the government for more than US$1 million, and converted it back to synthetic rubber tire production. The company began an expansion and modernization program at the plant that lasted through 1951. When it ended, the Eau Claire plant was the fifth largest tire facility in the United States. The company again expanded the plant in 1965 to produce tires for construction machinery, and for many years it was the largest private employer in Eau Claire and the second largest in neighboring Chippewa Falls before it was closed in 1991.\n\nIn late 1943, U.S. Rubber engineer Dr. Louis Marick developed a propeller de-icing system in which a rubber boot was fitted onto the leading edge of a propeller. The boot contained wires that conducted electricity to heat the edge and break-up ice.\n\nIn 1958, Uniroyal entered into a partnership with the Englebert tire company of Liège, Belgium, which became known as Uniroyal Englebert Deutschland AG. In 1963, the name was shortened to Uniroyal-Englebert, and in 1967 it became Uniroyal along with all company divisions. Uniroyal sold this division with its four factories in Belgium, Germany, France and Scotland to Continental AG in 1979. Continental continues to market tires under the Uniroyal brand outside NAFTA, Colombia and Peru.\n\nUniroyal operations in Canada were carried out under the name Dominion Rubber Company for a number of decades.\n\nDominion started operations as Brown, Hibbard and Bourne, established in 1854. In 1866, the company registered as the Canadian Rubber Company of Montreal Limited and became prosperous manufacturing waterproof cloth, rubber footwear and machinery belts. It began to produce auto tires in 1906 in its Montreal factory and through a series of mergers with other companies in Ontario and Quebec became the Canadian Consolidated Rubber Company Limited.\n\nAfter another series of mergers, the company became the Dominion Rubber Company Limited in 1926. It produced footwear under a variety of brand names, coated upholstery fabrics, mechanical parts, industrial chemicals and vehicle tires. In 1966, after four decades as Dominion, the company was renamed Uniroyal Ltd., along with all other company holdings, and in 1981, it was sold to Waterville Ltd.\n\nIn 1939, Mark Lodge and Harold Hill established S. A. Rubber Mills Pty. Ltd. in Edwardstown, South Australia. The company grew until 1963 when U.S. Rubber purchased 25% of the business. By 1980, Uniroyal owned sixty percent of what was now Uniroyal Brazil which it sold to Bridgestone. The subsidiary which operated Australian plants under the name Uniroyal Tyre Company became Bridgestone Australia Ltd. and was traded on the Australian stock exchange as a majority-owned subsidiary of Japan's tire company. On 20 March 2007 stockholders of Bridgestone Australia Ltd. voted to make the company a wholly owned subsidiary of Bridgestone Corporation of Japan.()\n\nA joint venture, Isochem, Inc., was established in June, 1965 together with Martin Marietta Corporation and chaired by the Martin's vice president Malcolm A. MacIntyre to operate Hanford nuclear site under the auspices of AEC, thus assuming duties, previously performed by the General Electric Co.\n\nIn 1961, the company became Uniroyal, Inc. The Uniroyal name was applied to all its operating components and products by 1967, creating a unified brand.\n\nAs Uniroyal, the company became defendant in a landmark gender discrimination case, \"Chrapliwy v. Uniroyal\", under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The case continued for several years until the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit issued a ruling in 1982.\n\nIn 1985, Uniroyal was taken private by its management and the New York investment firm of Clayton & Dubilier to prevent a hostile takeover by financier Carl C. Icahn. At the time, Uniroyal was the fifth-largest tire company in the country. To help pay the nearly $1 billion in debt incurred in the leveraged buyout, the company sold its Uniroyal's Chemical subsidiary to Avery Inc. – a producer of agricultural chemicals, industrial chemical additives and specialized rubber and plastic products – for $760 million in May 1986.\n\nThe remaining tire operation was merged with that of B.F. Goodrich Company (), a S&P 500-listed tire and rubber fabricator that made high-performance replacement tires. The joint venture partnership became the Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Company and B.F. Goodrich Company held a 50% stake in the new tire company.\n\nThe new Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Company established its headquarters at the former B. F. Goodrich corporate headquarters, within its 27-building downtown complex in Akron, Ohio, which contained Goodrich's original factory. In the fall of 1987, the B.F. Goodrich Company closed several manufacturing operations at the site, and most of the complex remained vacant until February 1988, when B.F. Goodrich announced plans to sell the vacant portions of the complex to the Covington Capital Corporation, a New York developer.\n\nIn 1987, its first full year of operation, the new Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Company generated almost US$2 billion in sales revenue, with profit of about US$35 million. However, the merger soon proved to be difficult. In June 1988, B.F. Goodrich sold its 50% stake to a group of investors led by Clayton & Dubilier, Inc. for US$225 million. At the same time, B.F. Goodrich also received a warrant to purchase indirectly up to 7% of the equity in Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Company.\n\nAlso in June 1988 as part of the sale deal, the new privately held tire company acquired publicly held debt of $415 million. The Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Company offered the debt securities in two parts through underwriters led by Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. The two instruments were a US$250 million issue of 14 ⅛% notes due in 1998, and a US$165 million issue of 14 ½% subordinated debentures due in 2000.\n\nFor the year 1988, Uniroyal Goodrich Tire posted sales revenue of US$2.2 billion, while profit declined to about a third of the prior year, less than US$12 million, which included an extraordinary credit of nearly US$2 million from the purchase of Canadian annuity pension obligations, and also a charge of over US$16 million from the June 1988 recapitalization resulting from the selloff by B.F. Goodrich.\n\nAlso in 1988, Michelin Group, a subsidiary of the French tire company Michelin et Cie () proposed to acquire the Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Company, and began acquiring a stake.\n\nIn 1989, Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Company posted sales revenue that was up to almost US$2.3 billion, but profit was down by 90% to just over US$1 million, but included over US$9 million extraordinary credit that year for the ongoing Canadian annuity pension obligation purchase. 1989 year-end net income results were also hurt by increased interest expense of nearly US$31 million on the June 1988 debt recapitalization, and a US$29 million charge for deferred employee compensation related to the proposed purchase of the company by Michelin Group.\n\nBy May 1990, Michelin Group completed its purchase of Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Company from Clayton & Dubilier of New York. The deal was valued at about US$1.5 billion. B.F. Goodrich surrendered its 7% warrant to Michelin Group for US$32.5 million.\n\nWith the sale, B.F. Goodrich then exited the tire business and became the Goodrich Corporation to focus on building its chemicals and aerospace businesses through reinvestment and acquisitions. Michelin Group continued to operate the Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Company as its tire manufacturing unit in the United States and Canada.\n\nIn January 1991, Michelin Group closed the historic Eau Claire, Wisconsin, plant, eliminating 1,350 positions. Later in 1991 it closed the tire-cord manufacturing plant in Lindsay, Ontario, with 74 workers on August 30, 1991, due to high cost and two tire factories with 1,000 jobs in Kitchener, Ontario, citing overcapacity.\n\nAlso in 1991, the Uniroyal tiger returned to national television after a 10-year hiatus, featured in a new 30-second spot created by Wyse Advertising of Cleveland, Ohio. The animated Uniroyal tiger had been a television advertising icon for the company through the 1970s. The new commercial appeared on ESPN and CNN sports-related programming, and also was run by Uniroyal dealers in local markets.\n\nBy 1993, Michelin North America employed 28,000 people at 18 plants, in South Carolina, Alabama, Oklahoma, Indiana, Nova Scotia and Ontario. In mid-1993, Michelin North America cut 2,500 of those jobs, which represented about 9% of its work force in the United States and Canada, because of softening demand for tires. As of 2010, the Uniroyal Goodrich Tire unit continued to operate with about 1,000 workers at its tire plant in Woodburn, Indiana, and another plant in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. Citing overcapacity in the North American tire market, the plant in Opelika, Alabama, closed in 2009.\n\nThe \"Uniroyal, Inc Records\" are held the Special Collections and Archives Department at University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire. Comprising contract negotiation and grievance case files, meeting minutes, memos, correspondence, photos and audio visual material, the records document numerous activities including: the collective bargaining activities of Local 19 of the United Rubber Workers of America, the impact on plant operations by the introduction of synthetic rubber production, and work modernization after World War II. The Department is also home to the \"Uniroyal Collection\", which includes news clippings and photos, and well as the \"United Rubber, Cork, Linoleum, and Plastic Workers of America. Local 19: Records\", which reflect the work of the labour union that represented the employees at the Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Company's Eau Claire plant.\n\nRecords and photographs pertaining to the Rubber Machinery Shops of the Dominion Tire Co. Ltd, in Kitchener, Ontario are housed in Special Collections & Archives at the University of Waterloo Library. Included are photographs, newsletters, equipment lists, press releases and news clippings regarding employees and company operations.\n\nUnited States Rubber Company records at Baker Library Special Collections, Harvard Business School.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2952883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2952883", "title": "Wafic Saïd", "text": "Wafic Saïd\n\nWafic Rida Saïd () (born 21 December 1939) is a Syrian-Saudi Arabian financier, businessman, political fixer and philanthropist, who has been resident for many years in Monaco.\n\nSaïd lived in Syria until his early twenties and studied in Beirut and London. In 1963 he left Syria for Switzerland where he worked as a banker, before making his fortune in the Saudi Arabian construction industry in the 1970s. Saïd came to public prominence after helping facilitate the Al-Yamamah arms deal between the United Kingdom and Saudi Arabia in the 1980s. He established the Saïd Foundation in 1982 and the Saïd Business School at the University of Oxford in 1996 with an initial £20 million donation to the University. Saïd owns several properties worldwide, including Tusmore Park in Oxfordshire, but is officially a resident of Monaco.\n\nSaïd is a Foundation Fellow of Somerville College, Oxford.\n\nSaïd was born in Damascus, Syria, in 1939 to a prominent Syrian family. Saïd's grandfather had served in the Turkish army during the Ottoman period, reaching the rank of general, and was a colonial governor of Ottoman Syria. Saïd was the youngest son of Rida Saïd, a prominent Syrian eye-surgeon and ophthalmologist who had been asked by King Faisal I of Syria to found a Faculty of Medicine, and was the founder of the Syrian University in Damascus in 1926.\n\nSaïd's father died when he was still a child, and after initial schooling by Jesuits in Beirut, Lebanon, Saïd studied at the Institute of Bankers in London. Saïd had been offered a place at the University of Cambridge, but was unable to take up the place as a result of political instability in Syria in which his family's assets were sequestrated.\n\nIn 1969 Saïd married Rosemary Thompson, who he had met in Switzerland, and they had three children together; two sons, Karim and Khaled, and a daughter, Rasha. In 1981 their son Karim died tragically in an accident at the home of Prince Sultan in Saudi Arabia; Saïd was attending a ceremony at the prince's house at the time to receive Saudi citizenship by royal decree. To honour his son Saïd established the Karim Rida Saïd Foundation to help disadvantaged children and young people of the Middle East.\n\nSaïd was ambassador and head of the delegation of St Vincent and the Grenadines to UNESCO from 1996 to 2018. Saïd also previously served as St Vincent and the Grenadines ambassador to the Holy See.\n\nIn March 2016, Saïd was told by British banking firm Barclays that he could no longer bank with them, despite having been a long-standing customer; the BBC reported that \"The bank is understood to be concerned about holding accounts that are linked to what are described as 'high-risk countries'\". In response, Saïd said he would be taking legal action against Barclays. Those proceedings were settled by June 2016. \n\nSaïd assisted the future Syrian president Bashar al-Assad with securing a place in Britain to study ophthalmology in 1992, and was acquainted with the Anglo-Syrian family of Assad's wife, Asma al-Assad (née Akhras). In a 2012 interview with Charles Moore in \"The Spectator\", Saïd said that he had found Bashar '...civilised, nice, polished', and that he admired Asma as 'a caring person'. Saïd welcomed Bashar's ascension to the Presidency of Syria following the death of his father, Hafez al-Assad, feeling it was Syria's 'only salvation. His acceptance speech in 2000 was music to my ears. He said he wanted to reform the legal system, revoke the [now 50-year-old] emergency laws, and fight corruption.' Saïd helped introduce Western politicians and businesspeople to Syria, and helped push for political reform in the country. Visiting Syria in 2011 at the advent of the Syrian uprisings in response to the Arab Spring, Saïd told Asma that 'the winds of change are contagious. Please tell the President to promise free elections. He must be the champion of change.'\n\nSaïd was appalled by the resulting Syrian Civil War and was summoned to see Bashar al-Assad in June 2011 as he wished to gauge Western views of the conflict. Saïd implored Assad to enact promised reforms and to engage with his political opponents. Saïd welcomed the Arab Spring and wished for a secular government in Egypt modelled on that of Turkey's.\n\nThe Karim Rida Saïd Foundation was established in 1982 by Wafic and Rosemary Saïd in memory of their son. It was renamed the Saïd Foundation in 2008. It is an English charity. \nSince 1984, the Scholarships Programme has offered scholarships and training opportunities for talented young Syrians, Jordanians, Lebanese and Palestinians, mainly to study in the UK, to enable them to acquire skills that will bring benefits to others in their countries of origin. To date the Foundation has funded scholarships for almost 900 students from these countries.\n\nIn 1993 the Foundation established the Child Development Programme (CDP) with the aim of supporting Jordanian, Lebanese and Palestinian community-based organisations to develop and deliver good quality and sustainable care services for disabled children and education in areas of greatest need. The CDP has funded more than 250 project grants since its start, reaching tens of thousands of children.\n\nIn 1996, the Foundation established the first Disability Programme in Syria, opening an office in 2001 to directly implement the Programme. The office became a locally registered charity in Syria in 2012, the Saïd Foundation for Development. The programme worked to strengthen the professional capacity of disability practitioners and organisations, raising awareness of disability, developing a cadre of national trainers in disability-related fields and supporting or providing services for children with disabilities (and their families) especially in marginalised communities.\n\nDue to the current turmoil in Syria, since late 2011 the Saïd Foundation has been providing support for non-political organisations that are delivering emergency humanitarian assistance, including shelters, medical care and schooling, to Syrians most affected by the crisis, whether refugees in Lebanon and Jordan or internally displaced within Syria itself. It has pledged over US$1.8 million to the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) for university scholarships for Syrian refugees in Jordan and Lebanon.\n\nThe Saïd Foundation also supports the Saïd Business School at the University of Oxford.\n\nSaïd finally left Syria amidst the 1963 Syrian coup d'état. Saïd described the atmosphere in Syria at the time as like '...the Terror in the French Revolution. Young men were being rounded up. My mother begged me to leave. I arrived in Geneva with $200. To \"couper le pont\", I sold the return half of my ticket.' In Switzerland Saïd worked for the Union de Banque Suisse (now UBS), and later the Banque Commerciale Arabe SA, before his return to England. Saïd established two restaurants serving Middle Eastern cuisine in London in 1967, including Caravanserai on Kensington High Street, the restaurants were sold in 1969.\n\nIn the 1960s Saïd became acquainted with the Saudi Arabian princes Bandar and Khalid, sons of Prince Sultan. Sultan was the brother of King Fahd of Saudi Arabia and would later become the Saudi Defence Minister; princes Bandar and Khalid would later serve as the Saudi Arabian ambassador to the United States and co-commander of Allied forces in the Gulf War, respectively.\n\nSaïd moved to Saudi Arabia in 1969. Saudi Arabia lacked much modern infrastructure at the time, and large infrastructure projects were subsequently funded by the rising price of oil in the early 1970s. Saïd's profile on his personal website says that when he arrived in Saudi Arabia in the early 1970s he found a country that 'needed everything' and that his companies 'played a crucial role in building the airports, desalination plants, housing and hospitals which helped propel the Kingdom into the 21st century'.\n\nFollowing his acquaintance with Akram Ojjeh, a fellow Syrian financier and the founder of the TAG Group, Saïd established TAG Systems Constructions SA, a civil engineering and telecommunications business, which he chaired.\n\nIn 1992 Saïd won a unanimous verdict in a libel case in the British high court, and was awarded £400,000 in damages. The case concerned letters that had been published alleging that Saïd was untrustworthy. Saïd described the letters as \"humiliating and untrue\", and that the allegations in the letters had caused him \"tremendous damage\".\n\nSaïd owned almost 50% of British Mediterranean Airways, and loaned the airline £8 million before its 2007 sale to BMI.\n\nSaïd's wealth was estimated at £1.5 billion by the Sunday Times Rich List in 2014 In 1995 Saïd co-founded Sagitta Asset Management, which handled his family's wealth and the assets of other ultra high-net-worth individuals and their families, it was sold to Fleming Family & Partners in 2005. Saïd also invested in the merchant bank established by Jonathan Aitken, Aitken Hume, and invested £5 million in the short lived \"Sunday Correspondent\" newspaper. In the United States Saïd invested in the National Bank of Washington and Garfinckel's stores.\n\nSaïd helped facilitate the al-Yamamah deal between the British and Saudi governments in the 1980s. The al-Yamamah deal is the biggest export deal in British history and has generated £43 billion in revenue for the British company BAE Systems. The \"Daily Telegraph\" has described Saïd as a 'key fixer' who 'helped broker' the deal, with the \"Guardian\" describing Said as the 'fixer at the heart' of the deal.\n\n\"The Guardian\" newspaper wrote that from the proceeds of al-Yamamah '[British] Police later calculated that more than £6bn may have been distributed in corrupt commissions, via an array of agents and middlemen'. In June 2007, the BBC's Panorama alleged BAE Systems had paid Prince Bandar \"hundreds of millions of pounds\" in return for his role in the al-Yamamah deals. Turki bin Nasser was also a recipient of money from BAE.\n\nAn investigation into the al-Yamamah deal was opened by the British Serious Fraud Office (SFO) and later closed for reasons of national security after the Saudi Arabian government had threatened to withhold cooperation on anti-terrorist issues.\n\nIn a 2007 statement issued by Saïd on the al-Yamamah deal said that he had \"...never been the 'business manager' for anybody, let alone any member of the Saudi Royal Family, nor has he ever 'distributed commissions' to any member of the Saudi Royal Family\". Saïd's role in al-Yamamah has led to him being described as an arms dealer, a term that he rejects. In 2001 Saïd said that the deal '... brought a huge boost to British industry: you are talking about thousands of jobs. But for some reason, which I cannot understand, the press want to portray this as a shady, mysterious deal ... Quite honestly, I thought I was doing this country a favour; I have never even sold a penknife. I was not paid a penny [for advising British Aerospace] but I benefited because the project led to construction in Saudi Arabia that involved my companies.'\n\nSaïd's friendship with Thatcher's son, Mark Thatcher, has been perceived as having played an important role in Britain securing the al-Yamahah deal. Mark Thatcher and Saïd have both denied allegations of commissions from the Saudi government. Companies linked to Saïd acquired properties in Belgravia and Mayfair that were 'put at the service' of Thatcher and Dick Evans, the BAE chief executive after the al-Yamamah deal according to \"The Guardian\".\n\nJonathan Aitken in his 2013 book, \"Margaret Thatcher: Power and Personality\" dismisses the belief that Mark Thatcher was pivotal to the deal. Aitken emphasises the role of Margaret's husband, Denis Thatcher as the intermediary between her and Prince Bandar with the assistance of Dick Evans. Aitken described a dinner party at his house in honour of Richard Nixon at which Saïd met the Defence Secretary Michael Heseltine who told him of his optimism that Britain would secure a large defence contract for BAE Hawk aircraft with Saudi Arabia. Saïd told Heseltine of his scepticism of the deal's success, and he was later approached by James Blyth, the Ministry of Defence's head of defence sales. Blyth asked Saïd about the progress of the deal and Prince Bandar reported from his father, Prince Sultan that he had signed a letter of intent with the French government instead of the British. Saïd informed Thatcher who impressed upon him the historic ties between Britain and Saudi Arabia, which appealed to the Pro-British Prince Bandar and Saïd.\n\nIn July 1996 it was announced that Saïd had donated £20 million to the University of Oxford to found a business school. Saïd had agreed to donate the money after the university had voted in 1990 for the creation of a business school, and needed funds of £40 million. Opposition initially arose to the school due to the lack of a suitable site and the nature of management as an academic discipline, and Saïd said that he would reconsider his gift after a potential site on a sports ground at Mansfield Road in Oxford was voted against. The new building for the school opened in August 2001, designed by Edward Jones and Jeremy Dixon. It was accompanied by protests over Saïd's role in the Al-Yamamah arms deal. A new building at the school, the Thatcher Business Education Centre was opened by The Prince of Wales in 2013 and named by Prime Minister David Cameron in 2014 in the presence of Saïd and his wife, Rosemary. Nelson Mandela visited the Saïd Business School at the invitation of Saïd in 2002, to open the lecture theatre named in his honour.\nSaïd had donated over £70 million to the school by 2014, and he is a member of the University of Oxford's Chancellor’s Court of Benefactors. The court consists of the largest individual donors to Oxford, and meets annually with senior officials from the university. Saïd's philanthropic efforts for the university have seen him honoured with the Sheldon Medal, the highest honour that Oxford bestows upon its benefactors. The Sheldon Medal is awarded annually to a member of the Chancellor’s Court of Benefactors that has 'made a strategic difference to the life of the university'. A bust of Saïd by Michael Rizzello stands at the entrance to the Saïd Business School, it was one of the last works sculpted by Rizzello before his death in 2004.\n\nSaïd was a passionate supporter of the British Conservative Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, and said of the effect of her premiership after the Winter of Discontent that 'We found we couldn't rely on British manufacturers any more. Then here she comes, this lioness. The honour of England is challenged in the Falklands and she sends an armada! She fights the most powerful union and defeats it.' and said that 'for me, her friendship is the biggest medal'.\n\nSaïd was a significant donor to Thatcher's Conservatives in the 1980s, donating at least £350,000 during her premiership. Saïd can no longer donate to British political parties due to his foreign citizenship. Saïd's wife, Rosemary, donated £580,000 to the Conservatives between 2012 and 2014, and Saïd's daughter, Rasha, was recorded as having given four donations totalling £47,000 to the Conservatives in 2008, but these were later explained as having come from her mother, after being incorrectly reported by the Conservatives to the Electoral Commission. \"The Sunday Times\" had reported that she had asked her parents to donate to the party on her behalf, and that some of the money had come from them, but her father said that she was mistaken as she could not afford to make such a donation.\n\nSaïd is close friends with Charles Powell, the former chief foreign affairs adviser to Thatcher. Saïd appointed Powell chairman of his Sagitta Asset Management in 2001, and Powell chairs the Saïd Business School Foundation.\n\nSaïd was an executive producer of the 1987 film \"The Fourth Protocol\", based on Frederick Forsyth's novel of the same name. Saïd funded half the film's budget of £3.5 million due to his love of Forsyth's novel.\n\nSaïd is a philanthropist and has significantly donated to St Mary’s Hospital in Paddington, London, The Prince of Wales's Charitable Foundation, Eton College, and the Royal Shakespeare Company. Saïd also donated £250,000 to the victims of the 7 July 2005 London bombings. He is the founding donor of the Wafic Saïd Molecular Cardiology Research Laboratories at the Texas Heart Institute.\n\nSaïd is a noted collector of Impressionist art, having owned paintings by Jean Renoir, Claude Monet, Paul Cézanne, and paintings of sporting scenes. Saïd put 11 paintings from his collection up for auction at Phillips in New York in 2000, among the paintings that sold were Renoir's \"Women in the Garden\" (1873) and \"Girl in a Flowered Hat\" (1896), Pissarro's \"September Festival, Pontoise\" (1872) and Cézanne's \"Hill of Galet, Pontoise\" (1879–80).\n\nIn 1982 Saïd paid a record £80,000 at auction for a Quran that had been made for Qaitbay, the 15th-century Egyptian sultan in 1488. The Quran was for a period displayed at the newly constructed Regent's Park Mosque in London.\n\nSaïd was a prominent racehorse owner, having owned the Henry Cecil trained horses Bosra Sham and Lady Carla. Lady Carla was named for Carla Powell, the socialite wife of Charles Powell. Bosra Sham won the 1996 1,000 Guineas and Champion Stakes under Said's racing colours. Saïd's Sagitta Asset Management sponsored the 1,000 and 2,000 Guinea Stakes, and having ended their sponsorship in 2003, Saïd withdrew his racing interests, citing his non-residence in England as the reason.\n\nSaïd family trusts own two homes in the United Kingdom, a £10 million property in Eaton Square in London's Belgravia district, which when bought in 1992, was then the highest price paid for an apartment in the United Kingdom, and Tusmore Park, a 3,000 acre estate near Bicester in Oxfordshire. Tusmore Park is near Prince Bandar's 2,000 acre Glympton Park estate. In 2012 Saïd erected a 92 ft limestone obelisk topped with gold in the grounds of Tusmore Park to honour the Diamond Jubilee of Elizabeth II. The obelisk is the largest constructed in the United Kingdom since the 18th century. Margaret Thatcher frequently visited Saïd at Tusmore Park, staying for long periods in Tusmore Park's Clock House in the last years of her life. Saïd rebuilt Tusmore House in 2000 to a neo-Georgian design by William Whitfield of Whitfield Lockwood Architects. In 2004 the Georgian Group gave the completed house its award for the \"best new building in the Classical tradition\".\n\nSaïd also owns homes in Marbella in Spain, France, Saudi Arabia, and Syria. Saïd is officially resident in the tax haven of Monaco.\n\nSheldon Medal, University of Oxford; Grand Commandeur Ordre de Mérite du Cèdre of Lebanon and Ordre de Mérite of Morocco.\n\n"}
{"id": "610419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=610419", "title": "Waybill", "text": "Waybill\n\nA waybill (UIC) is a document issued by a carrier giving details and instructions relating to the shipment of a consignment of goods. Typically it will show the names of the consignor and consignee, the point of origin of the consignment, its destination, and route. Most freight forwarders and trucking companies use an in-house waybill called a house bill. These typically contain \"conditions of contract of carriage\" terms on the back of the form. These terms cover limits to liability and other terms and conditions.\n\nA waybill is similar to that of a courier's receipt which contains the details of the consignor and the consignee, and also the point of origin and destination.\n\nMost airlines use a different form called an air waybill which lists additional items such as airport of destination, flight number, and time.\n\nThe UK Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1992 s.1(1) applies to: \n... whether in paper or electronic form s.1(5). \n\nUnder s.1(3) of the Act, a sea waybill is: \"any document which is not a bill of lading but is such a receipt for goods as contains a contract for the carriage of goods by sea; and identifies the person to whom delivery of the goods is to be made by the carrier in accordance with that contract\".\n\ns.2 continues: \"...a person who becomes the person who (without being an original party to the contract of carriage) is the person to whom delivery of the goods to which a sea waybill relates is to be made by the carrier in accordance with that contract ... shall (by virtue of becoming the person to whom delivery is to be made) have transferred to and vested in him all rights of suit under the contract of carriage as if he had been a party to the contract of carriage\".\n\nNote: the UK's Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 does NOT apply to contracts for the carriage of goods by sea.\n\n"}
{"id": "6754923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6754923", "title": "William Frederick Havemeyer", "text": "William Frederick Havemeyer\n\nWilliam Frederick Havemeyer (February 12, 1804 – November 30, 1874) was a German American businessman and politician of New York who served three times as Mayor of New York City during the 19th century.\n\nHavemeyer was born in New York City at No. 31 Pine Street. He was the son of William Havemeyer (1770–1851) who was the first of the family to emigrate from Germany to America. He had been left an orphan in childhood, and at the age of fifteen went to London, where he learned the trade of sugar refining, becoming in time the superintendent of the refinery. In 1799, he came to New York City under contract to Edmund Seaman & Co. and took charge of their sugar house on Pine Street. His father began his own business in 1807, establishing one of the first sugar refineries in New York City, on Vandam Street, between Hudson and Greenwich Streets. In the same year he took out his naturalization papers.\n\nThe younger Havemeyer grew up in the neighborhood of Vandam St. where the family sugar refinery was located. He received a liberal arts education, attending Columbia College of Columbia University and Wykoff Village Academy, graduating from the former in 1823.\n\nSoon after graduation he entered his father's service as clerk and obtained a thorough business training. In 1828, he formed a partnership with his cousin, Frederick Christian Havemeyer (1807–1891), under the firm name of W. F. & F. C. Havemeyer, sugar refiners. In 1842, he sold out his interest in the firm to his brother Albert. Thus after fourteen years, while still young, he retired from business a wealthy man.\n\nHavemeyer's middle-class ancestors lived in Bückeburg, in the German principality of Schaumburg-Lippe. Some spelled the last name Hoffmeyer or Hoevemeyer. In 1644, Hermann Hoevemeyer formed, with nineteen others, a bakers' guild. Dietrich Wilhelm Hoevemeyer, born in 1725, was a master baker, and a member of the city council of Bückeburg, and also served in the Seven Years' War.\n\nHis cousin's son Henry Osborne Havemeyer became a member of the Havemeyer family sugar refining firm, which controlled more than half the entire sugar interest of the country. Henry O.'s brother, Theodore Havemeyer, was co-founder of the U.S. Golf Association and U.S. Open.\n\nIn 1844, Havemeyer entered local politics with the Democratic Party as an elector for James K. Polk and George M. Dallas during the United States presidential election. He had been a supporter of President Andrew Jackson. He was also friendly with President Martin Van Buren with whom he had corresponded and urged vehemently to emulate Jackson's firmness in the face of popular outcry.\n\nIn 1844, the Democrats of the ward Havemeyer lived in were divided into two factions about equal in strength. To avoid a conflict, it was determined to send to the Tammany Hall convention three influential men, irrespective of factional feeling. James T. Brady, Gustavus A. Conover, and Havemeyer were selected. Then at the state convention of the Democratic Party, held at Syracuse 4 September 1844, Havemeyer was nominated for the office of presidential elector.\n\nAs a member of the general committee of Tammany Hall, Havemeyer showed such marked business ability that he was appointed chairman of the finance committee. In this position, he gained many friends in the Democratic Party, and he was recommended to President Polk by a number of influential citizens as eminently fitted for the collectorship of the Port of New York. But Havemeyer's independence did not suit the politicians who desired a collector who could be more easily controlled by the party leaders. With a view to retrieve control of the collectorship, and at the same time not run counter to Havemeyer's growing popularity, they offered him the nomination for the mayoralty.\n\nThus, in 1845, with the support of Tammany Hall, the Democratic Party political machine, Havemeyer was nominated for the office of Mayor of New York, \"laying stress on the fact that he was a native New Yorker.\" His opponent was incumbent mayor James Harper. In April, he was elected by a large majority and served a one-year term, from 1845 to 1846.\n\nThe New York State Legislature approved a proposal to authorize creation of a New York City police force on May 7, 1844, along with abolition of the nightwatch system. During Havemeyer's administration, the NYPD was organized on May 13, 1845, with the city divided into three districts, with courts, magistrates, clerks, and station houses being set up.\n\nHavemeyer attempted to reform the powers of the Common Council, leading to the drafting of a new government charter that provided for direct election of Department heads who had previously been appointed by the Council. In 1846, together with Robert B. Minturn and Gulian C. Verplanck, Havemeyer strove to abolish the abuses practised on immigrants. The result of their efforts was the Board of Emigration Commissioners, of which Havemeyer was the first president. His reform efforts irritated the Tammany leaders: \"Mayor Havemeyer not being pliable enough for the Wigwam leaders, they nominated and elected, in the spring of 1846, Andrew H. Mickle, by a vote of 21,675, the Whigs receiving 15,111, and the Native Americans 8,301.\"\n\nIn 1848, Havemeyer was again elected as mayor. Although invited to run for succeeding terms in both 1846 and 1849, he declined to serve more than one term at a time.\n\nAs a young man, Havemeyer had been a director of the Merchants' Exchange Bank. When he took leave from New York's political scene, Havemeyer returned to business as a banker. In 1851 he was voted president of the Bank of North America which he successfully led through the panic of 1857 and left in 1861. In 1857 he also became president of the New York Savings Bank when that institution was in great danger of suspension, leaving it also in 1861 after it was placed upon a secure foundation. He also became a large stockholder of the Pennsylvania Coal Company and Long Island Rail Road among insurance and other corporate interests.\n\nAlso on leaving the office of mayor, Havemeyer became a trustee of the Astor Public Library.\n\nIn 1859, he was nominated by Tammany Hall to run against Democratic candidate Fernando Wood, who had lost favor with some of the Tammany factions, and the Republican candidate George Opdyke. Havemeyer narrowly lost to Wood 30,000 to 27,000 (Opdyke gained 23,000 votes).\n\nDuring the American Civil War, Havemeyer was a strong advocate of the Union and urged the abolition of slavery as a war measure. In July 1866, Havemeyer was selected, along with Thurlow Weed, as arbitrator in the matter of a controversy relative to certain claims which had been pending for more than ten years between the Board of Public Charities and Correction and the Board of Commissioners of Emigration involving an amount of more than $100,000. The report was accepted as satisfactory by both parties, and the controversy settled.\n\nIn the wake the Boss Tweed financial scandal, which forced the political boss of Tammany Hall to flee the country, Havemeyer was named vice president of the political reform organization Committee of 70 and assisted in organizing reform associations in all the city's assembly districts. He was chosen chairman of a noted mass reform meeting held at Cooper Union on 4 September 1871, and his speech on that occasion was one of the most fearless and outspoken of any in its denunciation of the official thieves.\n\nLargely involved in voting the corrupt Tweed administration out of office, Havemeyer was nominated by the Republican Party Convention as a candidate for Mayor of New York on 1 October 1872. Although he at first declined to accept the nomination, the decision was supported by the Committee of 70 and the United Reform Convention, and he once again returned to successfully defeat Tammany Hall candidate Abraham R. Lawrence and James O'Brien to be elected and become Mayor for a third time, the first candidate since DeWitt Clinton to do so.\n\nDuring his third term, in the reorganization of the city government political organization under the Charter of 1873, several of his nominations were opposed by the Board of Aldermen. The greater part of his time was spent in wrangles with the aldermen and other city officers. Several of his appointments were controversial, for example he reappointed two police commissioners who had been convicted of violating their oaths of office. An application was made to the Governor of New York for his removal from office, a step which the executive declined to take.\n\nOn April 15, 1828, Havemeyer was married to Sarah Agnes Craig (1807–1894), the daughter of U.S. Congressman Hector Craig (1775–1842). Together, they were the parents of ten children, including:\n\n\nHavemeyer died while in office on November 30, 1874. He was buried in Woodlawn Cemetery in The Bronx, New York City.\n\nThe Fire Department of New York operated a fireboat named \"William Frederick Havemeyer\" from 1875 to 1901.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13027680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13027680", "title": "Þorsteinn M. Jónsson", "text": "Þorsteinn M. Jónsson\n\nÞorsteinn M. Jónsson (born February 18, 1963 in Reykjavík, Iceland) was an affluent businessman active in Iceland but lost most of his assets when the economy collapsed in 2008. He was the Chairman of Glitnir Bank and the owner & Chairman of Coca-Cola Iceland.\nCoca-Cola Iceland was ten thousand million kr. in debt with Kaupthing Bank and that ended up being the figure it was sold for to Coca-Cola Spain (now Coca-Cola European Partners) which now runs it and remains one of few businesses on the island owned by external figures.\n\nÞorsteinn earned a BA degree in Economics (Cand. Oecon) from the University of Iceland and in 1991 an MA in Economics from Northwestern University, Evanston Illinois.\n\nÞorsteinn worked as an economist for the Central Bank of Iceland for four years, followed by two years as Chief Economist for the Federation of Icelandic Industries. In 1996, he was appointed CEO of Vífilfell hf. and in 2001 he led a buy-out of the business and currently holds a majority stake. He was elected Executive Chairman of Vífilfell Coca-Cola in 2005.\n"}
