{"id": "51141210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51141210", "title": "2016 Democratic National Committee email leak", "text": "2016 Democratic National Committee email leak\n\nThe 2016 Democratic National Committee email leak is a collection of Democratic National Committee (DNC) emails stolen by one or more hackers operating under the pseudonym \"Guccifer 2.0\" who are alleged to be Russian intelligence agency hackers, according to indictments carried out by the Mueller investigation. These emails were subsequently published (leaked) by DCLeaks in June and July 2016 and by WikiLeaks on July 22, 2016, during the 2016 Democratic National Convention. This collection included 19,252 emails and 8,034 attachments from the DNC, the governing body of the United States' Democratic Party. The leak includes emails from seven key DNC staff members, and date from January 2015 to May 2016. The leaked contents, which suggested the party's leadership had worked to sabotage Bernie Sanders' presidential campaign, prompted the resignation of DNC chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz before the Democratic National Convention. After the convention, DNC CEO Amy Dacey, CFO Brad Marshall, and Communications Director Luis Miranda also resigned in the wake of the controversy.\n\nWikiLeaks did not reveal its source. Later Julian Assange, founder of Wikileaks, stated that the source of the emails was not Russia. On July 13, 2018, Special Counsel Robert Mueller indicted 12 Russian military intelligence agents of a group known as Fancy Bear alleged to be responsible for the attack, who were behind the Guccifer 2.0 pseudonym which claimed responsibility. The same day of the leak, the DNC issued a formal apology to Bernie Sanders and his supporters, stating, \"On behalf of everyone at the DNC, we want to offer a deep and sincere apology to Senator Sanders, his supporters, and the entire Democratic Party for the inexcusable remarks made over email,\" and that the emails did not reflect the DNC's \"steadfast commitment to neutrality during the nominating process.\" On November 6, 2016, WikiLeaks released a second batch of DNC emails, adding 8,263 emails to its collection.\n\nOn December 9, 2016, the CIA told U.S. legislators that the U.S. Intelligence Community concluded Russia conducted operations during the 2016 U.S. election to prevent Hillary Clinton from winning the presidency. Multiple U.S intelligence agencies concluded people with direct ties to the Kremlin gave WikiLeaks hacked emails from the Democratic National Committee.\n\nIn June 2017, former Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson, who was appointed by and served under President Barack Obama, testified before a House Select committee that his department offered their assistance to the DNC during the campaign to determine what happened to their server, but said his efforts were \"rebuffed\" because the DHS was offering to provide assistance months after the FBI had provided assistance.\n\nThe leaked emails revealed information about the DNC's interactions with the media, Hillary Clinton's and Bernie Sanders' campaigns, and financial contributions. It also includes personal information about the donors of the Democratic Party, including credit card and Social Security numbers, which could facilitate identity theft. In late June 2016, Guccifer 2.0 instructed reporters to visit the DCLeaks website for emails stolen from Democrats. With the WikiLeaks disclosure of additional stolen emails beginning on July 22, 2016, more than 150,000 stolen emails from either personal Gmail addresses or via the DNC that were related to the Hillary Clinton 2016 Presidential campaign were published on the DCLeaks and WikiLeaks websites. On August 12, 2016, DCLeaks released information about more than 200 Democratic lawmakers, including their personal cellphone numbers. The numerous crank calls that Hillary Clinton received from this disclosure along with the loss of her campaign's email security caused a very severe disruption of her campaign which subsequently changed their contact information on October 7, 2016, by calling each of her contacts one at a time.\n\nThe emails include DNC staff's \"off-the-record\" correspondence with media personalities, including the reporters at CNN, \"Politico\", the \"Wall Street Journal\", and the \"Washington Post\".\n\nIn the emails, DNC staffers derided the Sanders campaign. \"The Washington Post\" reported: \"Many of the most damaging emails suggest the committee was actively trying to undermine Bernie Sanders's presidential campaign. Basically, all of these examples came late in the primary—after Hillary Clinton was clearly headed for victory—but they belie the national party committee's stated neutrality in the race even at that late stage.\"\n\nIn a May 2016 email chain, the DNC chief financial officer (CFO) Brad Marshall told the DNC chief executive officer, Amy Dacy, that they should have someone from the media ask Sanders if he is an atheist prior to the West Virginia primary.\n\nOn May 21, 2016, DNC National Press Secretary Mark Paustenbach sent an email to DNC Spokesman Luis Miranda mentioning a controversy that ensued in December 2015, when the National Data Director of the Sanders campaign and three subordinate staffers accessed the Clinton campaign's voter information on the NGP VAN database. (The party accused Sanders' campaign of impropriety and briefly limited their access to the database. The Sanders campaign filed suit for breach of contract against the DNC; they dropped the suit on April 29, 2016.) Paustenbach suggested that the incident could be used to promote a \"narrative for a story, which is that Bernie never had his act together, that his campaign was a mess.\" (The suggestion was rejected by the DNC.) \"The Washington Post\" wrote: \"Paustenbach's suggestion, in that way, could be read as a defense of the committee rather than pushing negative information about Sanders. But this is still the committee pushing negative information about one of its candidates.\"\n\nIn the aftermath of the Nevada Democratic convention, Debbie Wasserman Schultz wrote about Jeff Weaver, manager of Bernie Sanders' campaign: \"Damn liar. Particularly scummy that he barely acknowledges the violent and threatening behavior that occurred\". In another email, Wasserman Schultz said of Bernie Sanders, \"He isn't going to be president.\" Other email had her stating that Sanders doesn't understand the Democratic Party.\n\nIn May 2016, MSNBC's Mika Brzezinski accused the DNC of bias against the Sanders campaign and called on Debbie Wasserman Schultz to step down. Schultz was upset at the negative coverage of her actions in the media, and she emailed the political director of NBC News, Chuck Todd, that such coverage of her \"must stop\". Describing the coverage as the \"LAST straw\", she ordered the DNC's communications director to call MSNBC president Phil Griffin to demand an apology from Brzezinski.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", the cache included \"thousands of emails exchanged by Democratic officials and party fund-raisers, revealing in rarely seen detail the elaborate, ingratiating and often bluntly transactional exchanges necessary to harvest hundreds of millions of dollars from the party's wealthy donor class. The emails capture a world where seating charts are arranged with dollar totals in mind, where a White House celebration of gay pride is a thinly disguised occasion for rewarding wealthy donors and where physical proximity to the president is the most precious of currencies.\" As is common in national politics, large party donors \"were the subject of entire dossiers, as fund-raisers tried to gauge their interests, annoyances and passions.\"\n\nIn a series of email exchanges in April and May 2016, DNC fundraising staff discussed and compiled a list of people (mainly donors) who might be appointed to federal boards and commissions. Center for Responsive Politics senior fellow Bob Biersack noted that this is a longstanding practice in the United States: \"Big donors have always risen to the top of lists for appointment to plum ambassadorships and other boards and commissions around the federal landscape.\" The White House denied that financial support for the party was connected to board appointments, saying: \"Being a donor does not get you a role in this administration, nor does it preclude you from getting one. We've said this for many years now and there's nothing in the emails that have been released that contradicts that.\"\n\nIn 2011 France, under Sarkozy, led calls for international intervention in the Libyan Civil War, voted in favor of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973 and, subsequently, dispatched the French Air Force into direct military action in Libya in support of the National Transitional Council. At the time, France explained the move was to protect Libyan civilians, however, in a private email from Sidney Blumenthal to Hillary Clinton - revealed as part of the 2016 Democratic National Committee email leak - Blumenthal claimed France was more concerned with Libya's large gold reserves which might pose a threat to the value of the Central African Franc, thereby displacing French influence in Africa, and that Sarkozy was interested in gaining more ready access to Libyan oil. Blumenthal's analysis of Sarkozy's motivations has been rejected without arguments by former French diplomat Patrick Haimzadeh.\n\nA self-styled hacker going by the moniker \"Guccifer 2.0\" claimed to be the source of the leaks; WikiLeaks did not reveal its source. Cybersecurity experts and firms, including CrowdStrike, Fidelis Cybersecurity, Mandiant, SecureWorks, and ThreatConnect, and the editor for \"Ars Technica\", stated the leak was part of a series of cyberattacks on the DNC committed by two Russian intelligence groups. U.S. intelligence agencies also stated (with \"high confidence\") that the Russian government was behind the theft of emails and documents from the DNC, according to reports in the \"New York Times\" and the \"Washington Post\".\n\nWikiLeaks founder Julian Assange initially stuck to WikiLeaks policy of neither confirming or denying sources but in January 2017 said that their \"source is not the Russian government and it is not a state party\", and the Russian government said it had no involvement.\n\nThe FBI requested, but did not receive, physical access to the DNC servers. The FBI did obtain copies of the servers and all the information on them, as well as access to forensics, from CrowdStrike, a third-party cybersecurity company that reviewed the DNC servers. The CrowdStrike analyst who ran the forensics on the DNC servers had worked for special counsel Robert Mueller at the FBI and in fact was personally promoted by Mueller. In testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee, Comey said that access through Crowdstrike was an \"appropriate substitute\" and termed the firm a \"highly respected private company.\"\n\nOn October 7, 2016, the United States Department of Homeland Security and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence stated that the US intelligence community was confident that the Russian government directed the breaches and the release of the obtained or allegedly obtained material in an attempt to \"… interfere with the US election process.\"\n\nThe U.S. Intelligence Community tasked resources debating why Putin chose summer 2016 to escalate active measures influencing U.S. politics. Director of National Intelligence James R. Clapper said after the 2011–13 Russian protests, Putin's confidence in his viability as a politician was damaged, and Putin responded with the propaganda operation. Former CIA officer Patrick Skinner explained the goal was to spread uncertainty. U.S. Congressman Adam Schiff, Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, commented on Putin's aims, and said U.S. intelligence agencies were concerned with Russian propaganda. Speaking about disinformation that appeared in Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, and Poland, Schiff said there was an increase of the same behavior in the U.S. Schiff concluded Russian propaganda operations would continue against the U.S. after the election.\n\nOn December 9, 2016, the CIA told U.S. legislators the U.S. Intelligence Community concluded Russia conducted operations during the 2016 U.S. election to assist Donald Trump in winning the presidency. Multiple U.S intelligence agencies concluded people with direct ties to the Kremlin gave WikiLeaks hacked emails from the DNC and additional sources such as John Podesta, campaign chairman for Hillary Clinton. These intelligence organizations additionally concluded Russia attempted to hack the Republican National Committee (RNC) as well as the DNC but were prevented by security defenses on the RNC network.\n\nThe CIA said the foreign intelligence agents were Russian operatives previously known to the U.S. CIA officials told U.S. Senators it was \"quite clear\" Russia's intentions were to help Trump. Trump released a statement December 9, and disregarded the CIA conclusions.\n\nThe Trump–Russia dossier contains several allegations related to the hacking and leaking of the emails. The individuals named have denied the allegations.\n\nThe dossier alleges:\n\nTrump has repeatedly denied the allegations, labeling the dossier as \"discredited\", \"debunked\", \"fictitious\", and \"fake news\".<ref name=\"Breuninger_1/13/2018\"></ref> Manafort has \"denied taking part in any collusion with the Russian state, but registered himself as a foreign agent retroactively after it was revealed his firm received more than $17m working as a lobbyist for a pro-Russian Ukrainian party.\" Cohen has also denied the allegations against him. Page originally denied meeting any Russian officials, but his later testimony, acknowledging that he had met with senior Russian officials at Rosneft, has been interpreted as appearing to corroborate portions of the dossier.<ref name=\"Raju_Herb_Polantz_11/8/2017\"></ref><ref name=\"Lanktree=11/7/2017\"></ref><ref name=\"Kelly_11/6/2017\"></ref>\n\nOn July 18, 2016, Dmitry Peskov, press secretary for Russian president Vladimir Putin, stated that the Russian government had no involvement in the DNC hacking incident. Peskov called it \"paranoid\" and \"absurd\", saying: \"We are again seeing these maniacal attempts to exploit the Russian theme in the US election campaign.\" That position was later reiterated by the Russian Embassy in Washington, DC, which called the allegation \"entirely unrealistic\".\n\nThen Republican nominee Donald Trump said on Twitter: \"Leaked e-mails of DNC show plans to destroy Bernie Sanders. Mock his heritage and much more. On-line from Wikileakes [sic], really vicious. RIGGED.\" \n\nOn July 24, 2016, Sanders urged Wasserman Schultz to resign following the leak and stated that he was \"disappointed\" by the leak, but that he was \"not shocked.\" Jeff Weaver, Bernie Sanders' campaign manager, called for greater accountability in the DNC, calling Wasserman Schultz \"a figure of disunity\" within the Democratic Party. Later the same day, Wasserman Schultz resigned from her position as DNC Chairman, effective as of the end of the nominating convention. After Wasserman Schultz resigned, Sanders said that she had \"made the right decision for the future of the Democratic Party.\" On the following day, the DNC apologized to Bernie Sanders, his supporters, and the Democratic Party for \"inexcusable remarks made over email.\" On July 24, 2016, in an interview with NPR, former DNC Chair and current Governor of Virginia Terry McAuliffe said \" ... that the chair's job should be \"to remain neutral.\" \"I sat in that chair in 2004 trying to navigate all the different candidates we had. But if you had people in there who were trashing one of the candidates, I can tell you this, if I were still chairman they wouldn't be working there. I mean, that is just totally unacceptable behavior.\"\n\nOn July 25, 2016, Anthony Zurcher, North America reporter for the BBC, commented that \"the revelation that those in the heart of the Democratic establishment sought to undermine the anti-establishment Sanders is roughly on a par with [\"Casablanca\" character] police Capt Renault's professed shock that gambling was taking place in the Casablanca club he was raiding, as a waiter hands him his winnings.\"\n\nOn July 25, 2016, Republican National Committee chairman Reince Priebus said that \"Today's events show really what an uphill climb the Democrats are facing this week in unifying their party. Starting out the week by losing your party chairman over longstanding bitterness between factions is no way to keep something together.\" \n\nAfter the emails were released, the Australian diplomat Alexander Downer informed the U.S. government that, in May 2016 at a London wine bar, Trump campaign staffer George Papadopoulos had told him that the Russian government had a large trove of Hillary Clinton emails that could potentially damage her presidential campaign. The FBI started a counterintelligence investigation into possible Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.\n\nOn October 14, 2016, NBC News reported that multiple sources were telling them that Barack Obama had ordered the CIA to present him with options for a retaliatory cyber attack against the Russian Federation for allegedly interfering in the US presidential election. Sources said that this is not the first time the CIA has presented such options to a president, but that on all previous occasions the decision was made not to carry out the proposed attacks.\n\nIn an op-ed for \"The Intercept\", James Risen chided the media for its lopsided reporting on emails:\n\nTo their disgrace, editors and reporters at American news organizations greatly enhanced the Russian echo chamber, eagerly writing stories about Clinton and the Democratic Party based on the emails, while showing almost no interest during the presidential campaign in exactly how those emails came to be disclosed and distributed ... The hack was a much more important story than the content of the emails themselves, but that story was largely ignored because it was so easy for journalists to write about Clinton campaign chair John Podesta.\n\nThe \"New York Times\" reported that Julian Assange stated in an interview on British ITV on June 12, 2016, that he hoped that the publication of the emails would \" ... harm Hillary Clinton's chances to win the presidency…\" and that he had timed the release to coincide with the 2016 Democratic National Convention, even though the interview in question contains neither statement by Assange. In an interview with CNN, Assange would neither confirm nor deny who WikiLeaks' sources were; he claimed that his website \" ... might release \"a lot more material\" relevant to the US electoral campaign ... \" \n\nFollowing the publication of the stolen emails, NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden criticized WikiLeaks for its wholesale leakage of data, writing that \"their hostility to even modest curation is a mistake.\" The \"Washington Post\" contrasted the difference between WikiLeaks' practices and Snowden's disclosure of information about NSA: while Snowden worked with journalists to vet documents (withholding some where it would endanger national security), WikiLeaks' \"more radical\" approach involves the dumping of \"massive, searchable caches online with few—if any—apparent efforts to remove sensitive personal information.\"\n\nOn July 25, 2016, Anne Applebaum, columnist for the \"Washington Post\", writes that\n\n… with the exception of a few people on Twitter and a handful of print journalists, most of those covering this story, especially on television, are not interested in the nature of the hackers, and they are not asking why the Russians apparently chose to pass the emails on to WikiLeaks at this particular moment, on the eve of the Democratic National Convention. They are focusing instead on the content of what were meant to be private emails ... \n\nShe goes on to describe in detail other Russian destabilization campaigns in Eastern European countries.\n\nOn July 25, 2016, Thomas Rid, Professor in Security Studies at King's College, London, and non-resident fellow at the School for Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University, in Washington, DC, summed up the evidence pointing to Russia being behind the hacking of the DNC files and the \"Guccifer-branded leaking operation\". He concludes that these actions successfully blunted the \"DNC's ability to use its opposition research in surprise against Trump ... \" He further writes that data exfiltration from political organizations is done by many countries and is considered to be a legitimate form of intelligence work. \"But digitally exfiltrating and then publishing possibly manipulated documents disguised as freewheeling hacktivism is crossing a big red line and setting a dangerous precedent: an authoritarian country directly yet covertly trying to sabotage an American election.\"\n\nRussian security expert and investigative journalist Andrei Soldatov said \"It is almost impossible to know for sure whether or not Russia is behind a hack of the DNC's servers\". According to him, one of the reasons Russia would try to sway the US presidential election is that the Russian government considers Clinton \"a hater of Russia\": \"There is this mentality in Russia of being besieged; that it is always under attack from the United States ... They are trying to interfere in our internal affairs so why not try to do the same thing to them?\"\n\nOn April 20, 2018, the Democratic National Committee filed a civil lawsuit in federal court in New York, accusing the Russian government, the Trump campaign, Wikileaks, and others of conspiracy to alter the course of the 2016 presidential election and asking for monetary damages and a declaration admitting guilt. A hearing on the defendants' motions to dismiss was scheduled for May 17, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "35240537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35240537", "title": "A.L.A. catalog", "text": "A.L.A. catalog\n\nThe A.L.A. Catalog is the first general book selection guide cooperatively prepared for use by American public libraries.\n\nIn the early stage of public libraries’ development, book selection is the job of library committee composed of library director and trustees rather than librarians. However, there might be problems for the committee to reach an agreement on which book should be include/exclude for their libraries due to the following two reasons: Firstly, the committee members might be different in terms of education background and personal interests, therefore, they might come up with “different theories of what the library shall be”. Secondly, even without the disagreement of theories, it is impossible for committee members to have an adequate knowledge of “books, editions, and prices, outside of their own line of reading.” Thus they need the assistance from experts to revise and complete their booklist for libraries.\n\nThe A.L.A. Catalog, also known as the Catalog of A.L.A. Library, as one of the most popular booklists developed by experts, is the “first general book selection guide cooperatively prepared for use by American public libraries.” Before the development of the catalog, Melvil Dewey first promoted the idea of a universal library collection guide in an article “The Coming Catalogue” in Library Journal in 1877. He suggested a co-operative way for creating the collection guide among library committee, field specialist, as well as authors, for the reason that “no one person living unites in himself the wisdom necessary to make the best notes on all the books of the library”, and “not one but many minds must contribute to the work [of book selection].” Dewey also suggested American Library Association (A.L.A) appoints a committee to take “entire charge” of the “coming catalogue”. The primary usage of such catalogue would be “as a guide in the purchase of books for either private or public collection; as the main catalog of many of these libraries.” \n\nBased on Dewey’s article, A.L.A. began to take steps of creating such catalog. In November 1878, A.L.A. appointed five people as the committee in charge of the catalog. They decided to adopt a classified arrangement of the catalog. The catalog was planned to be about 250 pages with a fixed price of $2.50. After years’ cession of catalog development, Dewey attempted to restart his plan for A.L.A. catalog when he worked at Columbia College as the “Librarian in Chief” in 1883. He tried to obtain suggestion from Columbia faculty members through their lectures on “bibliography and literature in their areas of expertise” when the School of Library Economy was established in 1887, and later Dewey moved to University of the State of New York in 1888, where he continued his work on catalog by asking his library employees and students in Albany to compile the catalog through scholarly journals. The Catalog was finally published and promoted in the A.L.A. annual conference in 1893 at the Chicago World’s Fair. The 1893 Catalog of A.L.A. library provides a list of 5000 “best reading selections” that were “approved by distinguished specialists in various lines and organized by librarians into two separate classification schemes”.\n\nAfter the Catalog had been developed, more and more libraries began to adopt it as the guide for book selection. For instance, Mrs. Horace M. Towner, one of the trustee members of Iowa Library Commission in Corning, published a short paper “Trustees’ Problems” in Iowa Library Quarterly in 1908 discussing the budget problem related to book purchasing. Towner states that the general rules for books purchasing is depending on the specific situation within each library. In other words, there is no fixed rule for book purchasing. However, Towner discussed a lot about the “right” evaluation of fiction. In order to avoid unsuitable and vicious fiction in a library, trustees should rely on “best” book reviews, in addition to “Booklist” from ALA. In the end of the article, Towner pointed out trustee members should read report from professional journals, like Library Journal and Public Libraries, to obtain knowledge from other library about the budget issue.\n"}
{"id": "27173395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27173395", "title": "Aart Jansz Druyvesteyn", "text": "Aart Jansz Druyvesteyn\n\nAernout or Aart Jansz Druyvesteyn (1577 – 5 August 1627) was a Dutch Golden Age lawyer, painter, and mayor of Haarlem.\n\nAccording to Van Mander in 1604, he was a promising young landscape painter who came from a good family in Haarlem, and thus painted as a hobby, rather than professionally. In April 1606 he married Anna de Wael, the daughter of the Haarlem mayor Johan de Wael, and they had two sons, Jacob who followed in his father's footsteps, and Johannes, who died childless in Venice in 1681.\n\nAccording to Houbraken, who echoes Van Mander's comment that he became a good landscape painter, he became an elder in the Dutch Reformed church before eventually becoming mayor of Haarlem. Houbraken reports that he died on August 5, 1617, aged 50.\n\nThis date makes it very confusing for art historians, because catalogs from the Frans Hals museum have claimed for decades that this is the same person sitting at the head of the table in Frans Hals' civic guard (\"schutterij\") group portrait \"The Banquet of the Officers of the St George Militia Company in 1627\" which was painted ten years later.\n\nAccording to the RKD he painted Italianate landscapes and died on August 5, 1627. This would place the occasion of painting the group portrait as the changing of the guards after the death of its most distinguished member.\n"}
{"id": "28734047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28734047", "title": "Animalia Paradoxa", "text": "Animalia Paradoxa\n\nThese 10 taxa appear in the 1st to 5th editions:\n\nThe above 10 taxa and the 4 taxa following were in the 2nd (1740) edition and the 4th and 5th editions (total 14 entries):\n"}
{"id": "1202747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1202747", "title": "Atlantic salmon", "text": "Atlantic salmon\n\nThe Atlantic salmon (\"Salmo salar\") is a species of ray-finned fish in the family Salmonidae. It is found in the northern Atlantic Ocean, in rivers that flow into the north Atlantic and, due to human introduction, in the north Pacific Ocean. Atlantic salmon have long been the target of recreational and commercial fishing, and this, as well as habitat destruction, has reduced their numbers significantly; the species is the subject of conservation efforts in several countries.\n\nThe Atlantic salmon was given its scientific binomial name by zoologist and taxonomist Carl Linnaeus in 1758. The name, \"Salmo salar\", derives from the Latin \"salmo\", meaning salmon, and \"salar\", meaning leaper, according to M. Barton, but more likely meaning \"resident of salt water\" . Lewis and Short's Latin Dictionary (Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1879) translates \"salar\" as a kind of trout from its use in the \"Idylls\" of the poet Ausonius (4th century CE). Later, the differently coloured smolts were found to be the same species.\n\nOther names used to reference Atlantic salmon are: bay salmon, black salmon, caplin-scull salmon, Sebago salmon, silver salmon, fiddler, or outside salmon. At different points in their maturation and life cycle, they are known as parr, smolt, grilse, grilt, kelt, slink, and spring salmon. Atlantic salmon that do not journey to sea are known as landlocked salmon or ouananiche.\n\nAtlantic salmon are the largest species in their genus, \"Salmo\". After two years at sea, the fish average in length and in weight. But specimens that spend four or more winters feeding at sea can be much larger. An Atlantic salmon netted in 1960 in Scotland, in the estuary of the river Hope, weighed , the heaviest recorded in all available literature. Another netted in 1925 in Norway measured in length, the longest Atlantic salmon on record.\n\nThe colouration of young Atlantic salmon does not resemble the adult stage. While they live in fresh water, they have blue and red spots. At maturity, they take on a silver-blue sheen. The easiest way of identifying them as an adult is by the black spots predominantly above the lateral line, though the caudal fin is usually unspotted. When they reproduce, males take on a slight green or red colouration. The salmon has a fusiform body, and well-developed teeth. All fins, save the adipose, are bordered with black.\n\nThe distribution of Atlantic salmon depends on water temperature. Because of climate change, some of the species' southern populations, in Spain and other warm countries, are growing smaller and are expected to be extirpated soon. Before human influence, the natural breeding grounds of Atlantic salmon were rivers in Europe and the eastern coast of North America. When North America was settled by Europeans, eggs were brought on trains to the west coast and introduced into the rivers there. Other attempts to bring Atlantic salmon to new settlements were made; e.g. New Zealand. But since there are no suitable ocean currents on New Zealand, most of these introductions failed. There is at least one landlocked population of Atlantic salmon on New Zealand, where the fish never go out to sea.\n\nYoung salmon spend one to four years in their natal river. When they are large enough (c. ), they smoltify, changing camouflage from stream-adapted with large, gray spots to sea-adapted with shiny sides. They also undergo some endocrinological changes to adapt to osmotic differences between fresh water and seawater habitat. When smoltification is complete, the parr (young fish) now begin to swim with the current instead of against it. With this behavioral change, the fish are now referred to as smolt. When the smolt reach the sea, they follow sea surface currents and feed on plankton or fry from other fish species such as herring. During their time at sea, they can sense the change in the Earth magnetic field through iron in their lateral line.\n\nWhen they have had a year of good growth, they will move to the sea surface currents that transport them back to their natal river. It is a major misconception that salmon swim thousands of kilometers at sea; instead they surf through sea surface currents. When they reach their natal river they find it by smell; only 5% of Atlantic salmon go up the wrong river. Thus, the habitat of Atlantic salmon is the river where they are born and the sea surface currents that are connected to that river in a circular path.\n\nWild salmon disappeared from many rivers during the twentieth century due to overfishing and habitat change. By 2000, the numbers of Atlantic salmon had dropped to critically low levels.\n\nYoung salmon begin a feeding response within a few days. After the yolk sac is absorbed by the body, they begin to hunt. Juveniles start with tiny invertebrates, but as they mature, they may occasionally eat small fish. During this time, they hunt both in the substrate and in the current. Some have been known to eat salmon eggs. The most commonly eaten foods include caddisflies, blackflies, mayflies, and stoneflies.\n\nAs adults, the salmon prefer capelin as their meal of choice. Capelin are elongated silvery baitfish that grow up to 8-10 inches long. \n\nFry and parr have been said to be territorial, but evidence showing them to guard territories is inconclusive. While they may occasionally be aggressive towards each other, the social hierarchy is still unclear. Many have been found to school, especially when leaving the estuary.\n\nAdult Atlantic salmon are considered much more aggressive than other salmon, and are more likely to attack other fish than others. A matter of concern is where they have become an invasive threat, attacking native salmon, such as Chinook salmon and coho salmon.\n\nMost Atlantic salmon follow an anadromous fish migration pattern, in that they undergo their greatest feeding and growth in saltwater; however, adults return to spawn in native freshwater streams where the eggs hatch and juveniles grow through several distinct stages.\n\nAtlantic salmon do not require saltwater. Numerous examples of fully freshwater (i.e., \"landlocked\") populations of the species exist throughout the Northern Hemisphere, including a now extinct population in Lake Ontario, which have been shown in recent studies to have spent their entire life cycle in watershed of the lake. In North America, the landlocked strains are frequently known as \"ouananiche\".\n\nThe freshwater phases of Atlantic salmon vary between two and eight years, according to river location. While the young in southern rivers, such as those to the English Channel, are only one year old when they leave, those further north, such as in Scottish rivers, can be over four years old, and in Ungava Bay, northern Quebec, smolts as old as eight years have been encountered. The average age correlates to temperature exceeding 7 °C (45 °F).\n\nThe first phase is the alevin stage, when the fish stay in the breeding ground and use the remaining nutrients in their yolk sacs. During this developmental stage, their young gills develop and they become active hunters. Next is the fry stage, where the fish grow and subsequently leave the breeding ground in search of food. During this time, they move to areas with higher prey concentration. The final freshwater stage is when they develop into parr, in which they prepare for the trek to the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nDuring these times, the Atlantic salmon are very susceptible to predation. Nearly 40% are eaten by trout alone. Other predators include other fish and birds.. Egg and juvenile survival is highly dependent on habitat quality as Atlantic salmon are sensitive to ecological change.\n\nWhen parr develop into smolt, they begin the trip to the ocean, which predominantly happens between March and June. Migration allows acclimation to the changing salinity. Once ready, young smolt leave, preferring an ebb tide.\n\nHaving left their natal streams, they experience a period of rapid growth during the one to four years they live in the ocean. Typically, Atlantic salmon migrate from their home streams to an area on the continental plate off West Greenland. During this time, they face predation from humans, seals, Greenland sharks, skate, cod, and halibut. Some dolphins have been noticed playing with dead salmon, but it is still unclear whether they consume them.\n\nOnce large enough, Atlantic salmon change into the grilse phase, when they become ready to return to the same freshwater tributary they departed from as smolts. After returning to their natal streams, the salmon will cease eating altogether prior to spawning. Although largely unknown, odor – the exact chemical signature of that stream – may play an important role in how salmon return to the area where they hatched. Once heavier than about 250 g, the fish no longer become prey for birds and many fish, although seals do prey upon them. Grey and common seals commonly eat Atlantic salmon. Survivability to this stage has been estimated at between 14 and 53%.\n\nAtlantic salmon breed in the rivers of Western Europe from northern Portugal north to Norway, Iceland, and Greenland, and the east coast of North America from Connecticut in the United States north to northern Labrador and Arctic Canada.\n\nThe species constructs a nest or \"redd\" in the gravel bed of a stream. The female creates a powerful downdraught of water with her tail near the gravel to excavate a depression. After she and a male fish have eggs and milt (sperm), respectively, upstream of the depression, the female again uses her tail, this time to shift gravel to cover the eggs and milt which have lodged in the depression.\n\nUnlike the various Pacific salmon species which die after spawning (semelparous), the Atlantic salmon is iteroparous, which means the fish may recondition themselves and return to the sea to repeat the migration and spawning pattern several times, although most spawn only once or twice. Migration and spawning exact an enormous physiological toll on individuals, such that repeat spawners are the exception rather than the norm. Atlantic salmon show high diversity in age of maturity and may mature as parr, one- to five-sea-winter fish, and in rare instances, at older sea ages. This variety of ages can occur in the same population, constituting a 'bet hedging' strategy against variation in stream flows. So in a drought year, some fish of a given age will not return to spawn, allowing that generation other, wetter years in which to spawn.\n\nWhen in shared breeding habitats, Atlantic salmon will hybridize with brown trout (\"Salmo trutta\").\nHybrids between Atlantic salmon and brown trout were detected in two of four watersheds studied in northern Spain. The proportions of hybrids in samples of 'salmon' ranged from 0 to 7-7% but they were not significantly heterogeneous among locations, resulting in a mean hybridization rate of 2-3%. This is the highest rate of natural hybridization so far reported and is significantly greater than rates observed elsewhere in Europe. A recent study discovered extensive hybridization of domesticated Atlantic salmon in the Northwest Atlantic by showing that 27.1% of fish in 17 out of 18 rivers examined are hybrids or feral.\n\nIn its natal streams, Atlantic salmon are considered prized recreational fish, pursued by fly anglers during its annual runs. At one time, the species supported an important commercial fishery and a supplemental food fishery. However, the wild Atlantic salmon fishery is commercially dead; after extensive habitat damage and overfishing, wild fish make up only 0.5% of the Atlantic salmon available in world fish markets. The rest are farmed, predominantly from aquaculture in Norway, Chile, Canada, the UK, Ireland, Faroe Islands, Russia and Tasmania in Australia. Sport fishing communities, mainly from Iceland and Scandinavia, have joined in the North Atlantic Salmon Fund to buy away commercial quotas in an effort to save the wild species of \"Salmo salar\".\n\nAdult male and female fish are anaesthetised; their eggs and sperm are \"stripped\" after the fish are cleaned and cloth dried. Sperm and eggs are mixed, washed, and placed into freshwater. Adults recover in flowing, clean, well-aerated water. Some researchers have even studied cryopreservation of their eggs.\n\nFry are generally reared in large freshwater tanks for 12 to 20 months. Once the fish have reached the smolt phase, they are taken out to sea, where they are held for up to two years. During this time, the fish grow and mature in large cages off the coasts of Canada, the USA, or parts of Europe.\n\nGenerally, cages are made of two nets. Inner nets, which wrap around the cages, hold the salmon. Outer nets, which are held by floats, keep predators out.\n\nFarmed Atlantic salmon are known to occasionally escape from cages and enter the habitat of wild populations. Interbreeding between escaped farm fish and wild fish decreases genetic diversity and introduces \"the\npotential to genetically alter native populations, reduce local adaptation and\nnegatively affect population viability and character.\"\n\nOn the west coast of the United States and Canada, aquaculturists are generally under scrutiny to ensure that non-native Atlantic salmon cannot escape from their open-net pens, however occasional incidents of escape have been documented. During one incident in 2017, for example, up to 300,000 potentially invasive Atlantic salmon escaped a farm among the San Juan Islands in Puget Sound, Washington.\n\nDespite being the source of considerable controversy, the likelihood of escaped Atlantic salmon establishing an invasive presence in the Pacific Northwest is considered minimal, largely because a number of 20th century efforts aimed at deliberately introducing them to the region were ultimately unsuccessful. From 1905 until 1935, for example, in excess of 8.6 million Atlantic salmon of various life stages (predominantly advanced fry) were intentionally introduced to more than 60 individual British Columbia lakes and streams. Historical records indicate, in a few instances, mature sea-run Atlantic salmon were captured in the Cowichan River; however, a self-sustaining population never materialized. Similarly unsuccessful results were realized after deliberate attempts at introduction by Washington as late as the 1980s. Consequently, environmental assessments by the US National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife and the BC Environmental Assessment Office have concluded the potential risk of Atlantic salmon colonization in the Pacific Northwest is low.\n\nFarming of Atlantic Salmon at sea in open cages has been linked to the decline in wild stocks. On exposure to farmed salmon, abundance of all wild migratory salmonid (e.g. Atlantic Salmon, sea trout, pink, chum, and coho Salmon) has been observed to decline; in some case by as much as 50% per generation. It has been shown that this decline can be attributed to both the interbreeding of farmed and wild salmon and the passing of parasites from farmed to wild salmon.\n\nAtlantic salmon were once abundant throughout the North Atlantic. European fishermen gillnetted for Atlantic salmon in rivers using hand-made nets for at least several centuries. Wood and stone weirs along streams and ponds were used for millennia to harvest salmon in the rivers of Maine and New England, and gillnetting was an early fishing technology in colonial America.\n\nHuman activities have heavily damaged salmon populations across their range. The major impacts were from overfishing and habitat change, and the new threat from competitive farmed fish. Salmon decline in Lake Ontario goes back to the 18th–19th centuries, due to logging and soil erosion, as well as dam and mill construction. By 1896, the species was declared extirpated from the lake. When dams were constructed on the Oswego River, their spawning areas were cut off and they went extinct locally.\n\nIn the 1950s, salmon from rivers in the United States and Canada, as well as from Europe, were discovered to gather in the sea around Greenland and the Faroe Islands. A commercial fishing industry was established, taking salmon using drift nets. After an initial series of record annual catches, the numbers crashed; between 1979 and 1990, catches fell from four million to 700,000. Overfishing at sea is generally considered the primary factor.\n\nBeginning around 1990, the rates of Atlantic salmon mortality at sea more than doubled. In the western Atlantic, fewer than 100,000 of the important multiple sea-winter salmon were returning. Rivers of the coast of Maine, southern New Brunswick and much of mainland Nova Scotia saw runs drop precipitously, and even disappear. To find out more about the increased mortality rate, a concerted international effort has been organized by the North Atlantic Salmon Conservation Organization.\n\nPossibly because of improvements in ocean feeding grounds, returns in 2008 were positive. On the Penobscot River in Maine, returns were about 940 in 2007, and by mid-July 2008, the return was 1,938. Similar stories were reported in rivers from Newfoundland to Quebec. In 2011, more than 3,100 salmon returned to the Penobscot, the most since 1986, and nearly 200 ascended the Narraguagus River, up from the low two digits just a decade before.\n\nRecreational fishing of atlantic salmon is now authorized in almost every country with a large atlantic salmon population, but it is subject to many States/Provinces regulations that are designed not to disturb the continuity of the species. Strict catch limits, catch and release practices and forced fly fishing are examples of those regulations.\n\nAround the North Atlantic, efforts to restore salmon to their native habitats are underway, with slow progress. Habitat restoration and protection are key to this process, but issues of excessive harvest and competition with farmed and escaped salmon are also primary considerations. In the Great Lakes, Atlantic salmon have been introduced successfully, but the percentage of salmon reproducing naturally is very low. Most are stocked annually. Atlantic salmon were native to Lake Ontario, but were extirpated by habitat loss and overfishing in the late 19th century. The state of New York has since stocked its adjoining rivers and tributaries, and in many cases does not allow active fishing.\n\nHistorically, the Housatonic River, and its Naugatuck River tributary, hosted the southernmost Atlantic salmon spawning runs in the United States. However, there are historical accounts as early as 1609 from Henry Hudson that Atlantic salmon once ran up the Hudson River.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Carlson challenged the notion that Atlantic salmon were prehistorically abundant in New England, when the climate was warmer as it is now. This idea was based on a paucity of bone data in archaeological sites relative to other fish species and claimed that historical observer records were exaggerated. However, arguments that lack of archaeological bone fragments rule out historic abundance are more recently disputed because salmon bones are rare at sites that still have large salmon runs, salmonid bones in general are poorly recovered relative to other fish species, and that salmon remains may have been diluted by the large numbers of other anadromous fishes using northeastern streams. In addition, fish scale evidence dating to 10,000 years BP places Atlantic salmon in a coastal New Jersey pond.\n\nIn New England, many efforts are underway to restore salmon to the region by knocking down obsolete dams and updating others with fish ladders and other techniques that have proven effective in the West with Pacific salmon. There is some success thus far, with populations growing in the Penobscot and Connecticut Rivers. Lake Champlain now has Atlantic salmon. In Ontario, the Atlantic Salmon Restoration Program was started in 2006, and is one of the largest freshwater conservation programs in North America. It has stocked Lake Ontario with over 700,000 young Atlantic salmon. Recent documented successes in the reintroduction of Atlantic salmon include the following:\n\nAtlantic salmon still remains a popular fish for human consumption. It is commonly sold fresh, canned, or frozen.\n\nThe decline in anadromous salmonid species over the last two to three centuries is correlated with the decline in the North American beaver and European beaver, although some fish and game departments continue to advocate removal of beaver dams as potential barriers to spawning runs. Migration of adult Atlantic salmon may be limited by beaver dams during periods of low stream flows, but the presence of juvenile \"Salmo salar\" upstream from the dams suggests the dams are penetrated by parr. Downstream migration of Atlantic salmon smolts was similarly unaffected by beaver dams, even in periods of low flows.\n\nIn a 2003 study, Atlantic salmon and sea-run brown trout/sea trout spawning in the Numedalslågen River and 51 of its tributaries in southeastern Norway was unhindered by beavers. In a restored, third-order stream in northern Nova Scotia, beaver dams generally posed no barrier to Atlantic salmon migration except in the smallest upstream reaches in years of low flow where pools were not deep enough to enable the fish to leap the dam or without a column of water over-topping the dam for the fish to swim up.\n\nThe importance of winter habitat to salmonids afforded by beaver ponds may be especially important in streams of northerly latitudes without deep pools where ice cover makes contact with the bottom of shallow streams. In addition, the up to eight-year-long residence time of juveniles in freshwater may make beaver-created permanent summer pools a crucial success factor for Atlantic salmon populations. In fact, two-year-old Atlantic salmon parr in beaver ponds in eastern Canada showed faster summer growth in length and mass and were in better condition than parr upstream or downstream from the pond.\n\nThe first laws regarding the Atlantic salmon were started nearly 800 years ago.\n\nEdward I instituted a penalty for collecting salmon during certain times of the year. His son Edward II continued, regulating the construction of weirs. Enforcement was overseen by those appointed by the justices of the peace. Because of confusing laws and the appointed conservators having little power, most laws were barely enforced.\n\nBased on this, a royal commission was appointed in 1860 to thoroughly investigate the Atlantic salmon and the laws governing the species, resulting in the 1861 Salmon Fisheries Act. The act placed enforcement of the laws under the Home Office's control, but it was later transferred to the Board of Trade, and then later to the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries.\n\nAnother act passed in 1865 imposed charges to fish and catch limits. It also caused the formation of local boards having jurisdiction over a certain river. The next significant act, passed in 1907, allowed the board to charge 'duties' to catch other freshwater fish, including trout.\n\nDespite legislation, board effects decreased until, in 1948, the River Boards Act gave authority of all freshwater fish and the prevention of pollution to one board per river. In total, it created 32 boards.\n\nIn 1974, the 32 boards were reduced to 10 regional water authorities (RWAs). Although only the Northumbrian, Welsh, northwest and southwest RWA's had considerable salmon populations, all ten also cared for trout and freshwater eels.\n\nThe Salmon and Freshwater Fisheries Act was passed in 1975. Among other things, it regulated fishing licences, seasons, and size limits, and banned obstructing the salmon's migratory paths.\n\nSalmon was greatly valued in medieval Scotland, and various fishing methods, including the use of weirs, cruives, and nets, were used to catch the fish. Fishing for salmon was heavily regulated in order to conserve the resource. In 1318, King Robert I enacted legislation setting a minimum size for cruives, \"so that no fry of fish are impeded from ascending and descending...\" Laws on catching fish upon royal lands were frequently updated, demonstrating their importance. Because the fish were held in such high regard, poachers were severely punished; a person twice convicted of poaching salmon on a royal estate could be sentenced to death. The export of salmon was economically important in Aberdeen; beginning in the 15th century, the fish could be preserved through salting and barreling, allowing it to be exported abroad, including as far away as the Baltic. The volume of the early Scottish salmon trade is impossible to determine, since surviving custom records date only from the 1420 onward, and since Aberdeen burgesses enjoyed an exemption on salmon customs until the 1530s.\n\nDuring the 15th century, many laws were passed; many regulated fishing times, and worked to ensure smolts could safely pass downstream. James III even closed a meal mill because of its history of killing fish attracted to the wheel.\n\nMore recent legislation has established commissioners who manage districts. Furthermore, the Salmon and Freshwater Fisheries Act in 1951 required the Secretary of State be given data about the catches of salmon and trout to help establish catch limits.\n\nSeveral populations of Atlantic salmon are in serious decline, and are listed as endangered under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). Currently, runs of 11 rivers in Maine are on the list – Kennebec, Androscoggin, Penobscot, Sheepscot, Ducktrap, Cove Brook, Pleasant, Narraguagus, Machias, East Machias and Dennys. The Penobscot River is the \"anchor river\" for Atlantic salmon populations in the US. Returns in 2008 have been around 2,000, more than double the 2007 return of 940.\n\nSection 9 of the ESA makes it illegal to take an endangered species of fish or wildlife. The definition of \"take\" is to \"harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, or collect, or to attempt to engage in any such conduct\".\n\nThe federal government has prime responsibility for protecting the Atlantic salmon, but over the last generation, effort has continued to shift management as much as possible to provincial authorities through memoranda of understanding, for example. A new Atlantic salmon policy is in the works, and in the past three years, the government has attempted to pass a new version of the century-old Fisheries Act through Parliament.\n\nFederal legislation regarding at-risk populations is weak. Inner Bay of Fundy Atlantic salmon runs were declared endangered in 2000. As of 2008, no recovery plan is in place.\n\nIt takes constant pressure from nongovernmental organizations, such as the Atlantic Salmon Federation, for improvements in management, and for initiatives to be considered. For example, the technology for mitigation of acid rain-affected rivers used in Norway is needed in 54 Nova Scotia rivers. Yet, an initiative of the ASF and the Nova Scotia Salmon Association raised the funds to get a project in place, in West River-Sheet Harbour.\n\nIn Quebec, the daily catch limit for Atlantic salmon is one fish over , two fish under or one fish over and one under , provided the smaller fish was the first one caught (a provision designed to prevent an angler from continuing to fish if a large fish is already in possession). The annual catch limit is seven Atlantic salmon of any size.\n\nIn Lake Ontario, the historic populations of Atlantic salmon became extinct, and cross-national efforts have been under way to reintroduce the species, with some areas already having restocked naturally reproducing populations.\n\nThe North Atlantic Salmon Conservation Organization is an international council made up of Canada, the European Union, Iceland, Norway, the Russian Federation, and the United States, with its headquarters in Edinburgh. It was established in 1983 to help protect Atlantic salmon stocks, through the cooperation between nations. They work to restore habitat and promote conservation of the salmon.\n\nIn 2010, Greenpeace International has added the Atlantic salmon to its seafood red list. \"The Greenpeace International seafood red list is a list of fish that are commonly sold in supermarkets around the world, and which have a very high risk of being sourced from unsustainable fisheries\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48937425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48937425", "title": "BioRxiv", "text": "BioRxiv\n\nbioRxiv (pronounced \"bio-archive\") is an open access preprint repository for the biological sciences co-founded by John Inglis and Richard Sever in November 2013. It is hosted by the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory (CSHL). As preprints, papers hosted on bioRxiv are not peer-reviewed, but undergo basic screening and checked against plagiarism. Readers may offer comments on the preprint. It was inspired by and intends to complement the arXiv repository, which mostly focuses on physics and connected disciplines, launched in 1991 by Paul Ginsparg (who also serves on the bioRxiv advisory board). It received support from both the CSHL and the Lourie Foundation. Additional funding from the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative was confirmed in April 2017.\n\nPrior to the establishment of bioRxiv, biological scientists were divided on the issue of having a dedicated preprint repository. Many had concerns of having their research scooped by competitors and losing their claim to discovery. However, several geneticists had submitted papers to the \"quantitative biology\" section of the arXiv repository (launched in 2003) and no longer had those concerns, as they could point to preprints to support their claims of discovery.\n\nAs a result of bioRxiv's popularity, several biology journals have updated their policies on preprints, clarifying they do not consider preprints to be a 'prior publication' for purpose of the Ingelfinger rule. Over 20,000 tweets were made about bioRxiv-hosted preprints in 2015. In July 2017, the number of monthly submissions exceeded 1,000. As of October 21, 2018, over 30,000 papers have been accepted in total.\n\nJocelyn Kaiser of \"Science\" said that in their first year, the repository had \"attracted a modest but growing stream of papers\", having hosted 824 preprints. As of February 2016, the submission rate to bioRxiv had steadily increased from ~60 to ~200 per month. In 2017, the number of monthly submissions rose from over 800 in March to more than 1000 in July with a total number of 10,722 papers submitted in 2017. By March 2018, the monthly rate of submissions increased to just under 1,500.\nbioRxiv accepts preprints in the following disciplines\n\nThe bioRxiv to Journals (B2J) initiative allows authors to submit their manuscript directly to a journal's submission system through bioRxiv. Journals currently participating in B2J are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18010483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18010483", "title": "Curriculum vitae", "text": "Curriculum vitae\n\nA curriculum vitae () (often shortened CV, résumé or vita) is a written overview of a person's experience and other qualifications for a job opportunity. It is akin to a résumé in North America. In some countries, a CV is typically the first item that a potential employer encounters regarding the job seeker and is typically used to screen applicants, often followed by an interview. CVs may also be requested for applicants to postsecondary programs, scholarships, grants and bursaries. In the 2010s, some applicants provide an electronic text of their CV to employers using email, an online employment website or using a job-oriented social-networking-service website, such as LinkedIn.\n\nIn the [[United Kingdom]], most [[Commonwealth countries]], and [[Republic of Ireland|Ireland]], a CV is short (usually a maximum of two sides of [[ISO 216|A4]] paper), and therefore contains only a summary of the job seeker's employment history, qualifications, education, and some personal information. Some parts of Asia require applicants' photos, date of birth, and most recent salary information. CVs are often tailored to change the emphasis of the information according to the particular position for which the job seeker is applying. A CV can also be extended to include an extra page for the jobseeker's publications if these are important for the job.\n\nIn the [[United States]], [[Pakistan]], [[Canada]], [[Australia]], [[Germany]], [[India]], and [[Cuba]] a CV is a comprehensive document used in academic circles and medical careers that elaborate on education, publications, and other achievements. A CV contains greater detail than a [[résumé]], a shorter summary which is more often used in applications for jobs, but it is often expected that professionals use a short CV that highlights the current focus of their academic lives and not necessarily their full history. A CV is generally used when applying for a position in academia, while a resume is generally used when applying for a position in industry, non-profit, and the public sector.\n\n\"Curriculum vitae\" is a [[Latin]] expression which can be loosely translated as \"[the] course of [my] life\". In current usage, \"curriculum\" is less [[markedness|marked]] as a foreign [[loanword]]. Traditionally the word \"vitae\" is rendered in English using the [[Ligature (typography)|ligature]] [[æ]], hence \"vitæ\", although this convention (curriculum vitæ) is less common in contemporary practice.\n\nThe plural of \"curriculum vitae\", in Latin, is formed following Latin rules of grammar as \"curricula vitae\", and is used along with \"curricula vitarum\", each of which is debated as being more grammatically correct than the other.\n\nIn English, the plural of the full expression curriculum vitae is seldom used; the plural of \"curriculum\" on its own is usually written as \"curricula\", rather than the traditional \"curriculums\".\n\n\n\n[[Category:Recruitment]]\n[[Category:Business documents]]\n[[Category:Latin words and phrases]]"}
{"id": "46270750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46270750", "title": "DNS Certification Authority Authorization", "text": "DNS Certification Authority Authorization\n\nDNS Certification Authority Authorization (CAA) is an Internet security policy mechanism which allows domain name holders to indicate to certificate authorities whether they are authorized to issue digital certificates for a particular domain name. It does this by means of a new \"CAA\" Domain Name System (DNS) resource record. \n\nIt was drafted by computer scientists Phillip Hallam-Baker and Rob Stradling in response to increasing concerns about the security of publicly trusted certificate authorities. It is an Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) proposed standard.\n\nA series of incorrectly issued certificates from 2001 onwards damaged trust in publicly trusted certificate authorities, and accelerated work on various security mechanisms, including Certificate Transparency to track mis-issuance, HTTP Public Key Pinning and DANE to block mis-issued certificates on the client-side, and CAA to block mis-issuance on the certificate authority side. \n\nThe first draft of CAA was written by Phillip Hallam-Baker and Rob Stradling, and submitted as an IETF Internet Draft in October 2010. This was progressively improved by the PKIX Working Group, and submitted to the IESG as , a Proposed Standard, in January 2013. CA/Browser Forum discussion began shortly afterwards, and in March 2017 they voted in favor of making CAA implementation mandatory for all certificate authorities by September 2017. At least one certificate authority, Comodo, failed to implement CAA before the deadline. A 2017 study by the Technical University of Munich found many instances where certificate authorities failed to correctly implement some part of the standard. \n\n, Qualys reports that still only 3.4% of the 150,000 most popular TLS-supporting websites use CAA records.\n\nCertificate authorities implementing CAA perform a DNS lookup for CAA resource records, and if any are found, ensure that they are listed as an authorized party before issuing a digital certificate. Each CAA resource record consists of the following components, separated by whitespace:\n\nThe lack of any CAA records authorizes normal unrestricted issuance, and the presence of a single blank \"issue\" tag disallows all issuance.\n\nThird parties monitoring certificate authority behavior might check newly issued certificates against the domain's CAA records, but must be aware that a domain's CAA records may have changed between the time the certificate was issued and the time the third-party checks them. Clients should not use CAA as part of their certificate validation process.\n\nA draft of the first extension to the CAA standard was published on October 26, 2016, proposing a new \"account-uri\" token to the end of the \"issue\" property, which ties a domain to a specific Automated Certificate Management Environment account. This was amended on August 30, 2017, to also include a new \"validation-methods\" token, which ties a domain to a specific validation method, and then further amended on June 21, 2018 to remove the hyphen in \"account-uri\" and \"validation-methods\" making them instead \"accounturi\" and \"validationmethods\".\n\nTo indicate that only the certificate authority identified by \"ca.example.net\" is authorised to issue certificates for example.com and all subdomains, one may use this CAA record:\n\nTo disallow any certificate issuance, one may allow issuance only to an empty issuer list:\n\nTo indicate that certificate authorities should report invalid certificate requests to an email address and a Real-time Inter-network Defense endpoint:\n\nTo use a future extension of the protocol, for example one which defines a new \"future\" property, which needs to be understood by the certificate authority before they can safely proceed, one may set the \"issuer critical\" flag:\n\n"}
{"id": "1008932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1008932", "title": "Dorling Kindersley", "text": "Dorling Kindersley\n\nDK, formerly known as Dorling Kindersley, is a British multinational publishing company specialising in illustrated reference books for adults and children in 62 languages. \n\nIt is an imprint of Penguin Random House, a subsidiary of German media conglomerate Bertelsmann and British publishing company Pearson plc.\n\nEstablished in 1974, DK publishes a range of titles in genres including travel (including Eyewitness Travel Guides), arts and crafts, business, history, cooking, gaming, gardening, health and fitness, natural history, parenting, science and reference. They also publish books for children, toddlers and babies, covering such topics as history, the human body, animals and activities, as well as licensed properties such as LEGO, Disney and DeLiSo, licensor of the toy Sophie la Girafe. \nDK has offices in New York, Melbourne, London, Munich, New Delhi and Toronto.\n\nDK was founded as a book-packaging company by Christopher Dorling and Peter Kindersley in London in 1974, and in 1982 moved into publishing. The first book published under the DK name was a \"First Aid Manual\" for the British voluntary medical services; this book established the company's distinctive visual style of copiously illustrated text on a glossy white background. DK Inc. began publishing in the United States in 1991. That same year, Microsoft bought a 26 percent stake in DK.\n\nIn 1999 it overestimated the market for \"Star Wars\" books and was left with millions of unsold copies, resulting in crippling debt. As a direct result, DK was taken over the following year by the Pearson plc media company and made part of Penguin Group, which also owned the Penguin Books label. DK has continued to sell \"Star Wars\" books after the takeover.\n\nIn 2013 Bertelsmann and Pearson completed a merger to form Penguin Random House. Bertelsmann owns 53% and Pearson 47% of the company. Penguin's trade publishing activity continued to include DK under the newly formed Penguin Random House.\n\nDK publishes a range of titles internationally for adults and children. Most of the company's books are produced by teams of editors and designers who work with freelance writers and illustrators. Some are endorsed by \"imprimaturs\": well-known and respected organisations such as the British Medical Association, the Royal Horticultural Society and the British Red Cross. Some DK books apparently produced by celebrity authors such as Carol Vorderman are actually ghostwritten by the company's own writers and editors.\n\nBradyGames is a publishing company in the United States operating as a DK imprint, which specializes in video game strategy guides, covering multiple video game platforms. It published their first strategy guide in November 1993 as a division of MacMillan Computer Publishing. In 1998, Simon & Schuster (which acquired Macmillan in 1994) divested BradyGames as part of its educational division to Pearson plc. BradyGames has grown to publish roughly 90-100 guides per year. On 1 June 2015, BradyGames merged with Prima Games, and future strategy guides made by the publishing company will be published under the Prima Games label.\n\nDuring the 1990s, the company published educational videos and a successful range of educational CD-ROMs under the brand \"DK Multimedia\". During the late 1990s CD-ROMs were rebranded as \"DK Interactive Learning\" to reflect a changed emphasis toward the educational sector. Following dwindling sales and increasing competition from websites, the company tried to rebrand the digital part of its business as \"DK Online\" before opting to sell the UK publishing rights to its CD-ROM backlist in 2000 to an entirely separate company, \"Global Software Publishing\", which is part of the Avanquest Software Group. The DK Online section of the business then transferred into development work on the anglicised version of the Pearson Education (US) KnowledgeBox product.\n\nIn December 2010 DK opened an app store, selling digital versions of some of its books as well as products from other publishers.\n\nDK commenced publishing books aimed at teens with the release of \"Heads Up Psychology\" in May 2014 and further titles following every two to three months. Reception of the first title was favorable with Publishers Weekly writing \"Attention-getting headers (\"Why do good people do bad things?\" introduces a discussion of the human capacity for evil) should hook curious readers, while the findings of psychological studies should deepen their understanding of this field. Infographics, sidebars, and photos both create an inviting visual layout and underscore the concepts discussed.\" while Booklist called it an \"attractive book\" and \"a busy but appealing companion for high-school psychology textbooks.\"\n\nOther book series published recently include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1336229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1336229", "title": "Encyclopaedia of Persian Language and Literature", "text": "Encyclopaedia of Persian Language and Literature\n\nThe Encyclopaedia of Persian Language and Literature ( \"Dāneshnāme-ye Fāarsi-ye Zabān-o Adab\") is a Persian language encyclopaedia, published in Tehran.\n\n"}
{"id": "43026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43026", "title": "Endianness", "text": "Endianness\n\nEndianness refers to the sequential order in which bytes are arranged into larger numerical values when stored in memory or when transmitted over digital links. Endianness is of interest in computer science because two conflicting and incompatible formats are in common use: words may be represented in big-endian or little-endian format, depending on whether bits or bytes or other components are ordered from the big end (most significant bit) or the little end (least significant bit). \n\nIn big-endian format, whenever addressing memory or sending/storing words bytewise, the most significant byte—the byte containing the most significant bit—is stored first (has the lowest address) or sent first, then the following bytes are stored or sent in decreasing significance order, with the least significant byte—the one containing the least significant bit—stored last (having the highest address) or sent last.\n\nLittle-endian format reverses this order: the sequence addresses/sends/stores the least significant byte first (lowest address) and the most significant byte last (highest address). Most computer systems prefer a single format for all its data; using the system's native format is automatic. But when reading memory or receiving transmitted data from a different computer system, it is often required to process and translate data between the preferred native endianness format to the opposite format. \n\nThe order of bits within a byte or word can also have endianness (as discussed later); however, a byte is typically handled as a single numerical value or character symbol and so bit sequence order is obviated.\n\nBoth big and little forms of endianness are widely used in digital electronics. The choice of endianness for a new design is often arbitrary, but later technology revisions and updates perpetuate the existing endianness and many other design attributes to maintain backward compatibility. As examples, the IBM z/Architecture mainframes and the Motorola 68000 series use big-endian while the Intel x86 processors use little-endian. The designers of System/360, the ancestor of z/Architecture, chose its endianness in the 1960s; the designers of the Motorola 68000 and the Intel 8086, the first members of the 68000 and x86 families, chose their endianness in the 1970s.\n\nBig-endian is the most common format in data networking; fields in the protocols of the Internet protocol suite, such as IPv4, IPv6, TCP, and UDP, are transmitted in big-endian order. For this reason, big-endian byte order is also referred to as network byte order. Little-endian storage is popular for microprocessors, in part due to significant influence on microprocessor designs by Intel Corporation. Mixed forms also exist; for instance, in VAX floating point, the ordering of bytes in a 16-bit word differs from the ordering of 16-bit words within a 32-bit word. Such cases are sometimes referred to as mixed-endian or middle-endian. There are also some bi-endian processors that operate in either little-endian or big-endian mode.\n\nThe following two descriptive illustrations assume a normal reading and writing convention of \"left to right\", where the left-most digit or character therefore corresponds to data being \"sent\" (or \"received\") first, or being in the \"lowest address in memory,\" and the right-most digit or character corresponds to the data being sent or received last, or being in the \"highest\" address in memory.\n\nBig-endianness may be demonstrated by writing a decimal number, say one hundred twenty-three, on paper in the usual positional notation understood by a numerate reader: \"123\". The digits are written starting from the left and to the right, with the most significant digit, \"1\", written first. This is analogous to the lowest address of memory being used first. This is an example of a big-endian convention taken from daily life.\n\nThe little-endian way of writing the same number, one hundred twenty-three, would place the hundreds-digit \"1\" in the right-most position: \"321\". A person following conventional big-endian place-value order, who is not aware of this special ordering, would read a different number: three hundred and twenty one. Endianness in computing is similar, but it usually applies to the ordering of bytes, rather than of digits.\n\nThe illustrations to the right, where \"a\" is a memory address, show big-endian and little-endian storage in memory.\n\nDanny Cohen introduced the terms Little-Endian and Big-Endian for byte ordering in an article from 1980. \nIn this technical and political examination of byte ordering issues, the \"endian\" names were drawn from \nJonathan Swift's 1726 satire, \"\", in which civil war erupts over whether the big end or the little end of a boiled egg is the proper end to crack open, which is analogous to counting from the end that contains the most significant bit or the least significant bit.\n\nComputer memory consists of a sequence of storage cells. Each cell is identified in hardware and software by its memory address. If the total number of storage cells in memory is \"n\", then addresses are enumerated from \"0\" to \"n-1\". Computer programs often use data structures of fields that may consist of more data than is stored in one memory cell. For the purpose of this article where its use as an operand of an instruction is relevant, a field consists of a consecutive sequence of bytes and represents a simple data value. In addition to that, it has to be of numeric type in some positional number system (mostly base-10 or base-2 – or base-256 in case of 8-bit bytes). In such a number system the \"value\" of a digit is determined not only by its value as a single digit, but also by the position it holds in the complete number, its \"significance\". These positions can be mapped to memory mainly in two ways:\n\nWhile the little-endian Intel microprocessor product line became a popular architecture, many historical and extant processors use a big-endian memory representation, commonly referred to as network order, as used in the Internet protocol suite, either exclusively or as a design option; others use yet another scheme called \"middle-endian\", \"mixed-endian\" or \"PDP-11-endian\".\n\nThe IBM System/360 uses big-endian byte order, as do its successors System/370, ESA/390, and z/Architecture. The PDP-10 also uses big-endian addressing for byte-oriented instructions. The IBM Series/1 minicomputer also use big-endian byte order.\n\nDealing with data of different endianness is sometimes termed the \"NUXI problem\". This terminology alludes to the byte order conflicts encountered while adapting UNIX, which ran on the mixed-endian PDP-11, to a big-endian IBM Series/1 computer. Unix was one of the first systems to allow the same code to be compiled for platforms with different internal representations. One of the first programs converted was supposed to print out \"Unix\", but on the Series/1 it printed \"nUxi\" instead.\n\nThe Datapoint 2200 uses simple bit-serial logic with little-endian to facilitate carry propagation. When Intel developed the 8008 microprocessor for Datapoint, they used little-endian for compatibility. However, as Intel was unable to deliver the 8008 in time, Datapoint used a medium scale integration equivalent, but the little-endianness was retained in most Intel designs. Intel MCS-48 is also little-endian, as are the well-known DEC Alpha, Atmel AVR, VAX and many more.\n\nThe Motorola 6800 / 6801, the 6809 and the 68000 series of processors used the big-endian format, and for this reason, it is also known as the \"Motorola convention\".\n\nThe Intel 8051, contrary to other Intel processors, expects 16-bit addresses for LJMP and LCALL in big-endian format; however, xCALL instructions store the return address onto the stack in little-endian format.\n\nSPARC historically used big-endian until version 9, which is bi-endian; similarly early IBM POWER processors were big-endian, but now the PowerPC and Power Architecture descendants are bi-endian. The ARM architecture was little-endian before version 3 when it became bi-endian.\n\nOther well-known little-endian processor architectures include MOS Technology 6502 (including Western Design Center 65802 and 65C816), Zilog Z80 (including Z180 and eZ80) and Altera Nios II.\n\nThe Intel x86 and also AMD64 / x86-64 series of processors use the little-endian format, and for this reason, it is also known in the industry as the \"Intel convention\".\n\nSome current big-endian architectures include the IBM z/Architecture, Freescale ColdFire (which is Motorola 68000 series-based), Xilinx MicroBlaze, Atmel AVR32.\n\nAs a consequence of its original implementation on the Intel 8080 platform, the operating system-independent FAT file system is defined to use little-endian byte ordering, even on platforms using other endiannesses natively.\n\nSome architectures (including ARM versions 3 and above, PowerPC, Alpha, SPARC V9, MIPS, PA-RISC, SuperH SH-4 and IA-64) feature a setting which allows for switchable endianness in data fetches and stores, instruction fetches, or both. This feature can improve performance or simplify the logic of networking devices and software. The word \"bi-endian\", when said of hardware, denotes the capability of the machine to compute or pass data in either endian format.\n\nMany of these architectures can be switched via software to default to a specific endian format (usually done when the computer starts up); however, on some systems the default endianness is selected by hardware on the motherboard and cannot be changed via software (e.g. the Alpha, which runs only in big-endian mode on the Cray T3E).\n\nNote that the term \"bi-endian\" refers primarily to how a processor treats \"data\" accesses. \"Instruction\" accesses (fetches of instruction words) on a given processor may still assume a fixed endianness, even if \"data\" accesses are fully bi-endian, though this is not always the case, such as on Intel's IA-64-based Itanium CPU, which allows both.\n\nNote, too, that some nominally bi-endian CPUs require motherboard help to fully switch endianness. For instance, the 32-bit desktop-oriented PowerPC processors in little-endian mode act as little-endian from the point of view of the executing programs, but they require the motherboard to perform a 64-bit swap across all 8 byte lanes to ensure that the little-endian view of things will apply to I/O devices. In the absence of this unusual motherboard hardware, device driver software must write to different addresses to undo the incomplete transformation and also must perform a normal byte swap.\n\nSome CPUs, such as many PowerPC processors intended for embedded use and almost all SPARC processors, allow per-page choice of endianness.\n\nSPARC processors since the late 1990s (\"SPARC v9\" compliant processors) allow data endianness to be chosen with each individual instruction that loads from or stores to memory.\n\nMany processors have instructions to convert a word in a register to the opposite endianness, that is, they swap the order of the bytes in a 16-, 32- or 64-bit word. All the individual bits are not reversed though.\n\nRecent Intel x86 and x86-64 architecture CPUs have a MOVBE instruction (Intel Core since generation 4, after Atom), which fetches a big-endian format word from memory or writes a word into memory in big-endian format. These processors are otherwise thoroughly little-endian. They also already had a range of swap instructions to reverse the byte order of the contents of registers, such as when words have already been fetched from memory locations where they were in the 'wrong' endianness.\n\nZFS/OpenZFS combined file system and logical volume manager is known to provide adaptive endianness and to work with both big-endian and little-endian systems.\n\n<section begin=\"Floating-point\" />\nAlthough the ubiquitous x86 processors of today use little-endian storage for all types of data (integer, floating point, BCD), there are a number of hardware architectures where floating-point numbers are represented in big-endian form while integers are represented in little-endian form. There are ARM processors that have half little-endian, half big-endian floating-point representation for double-precision numbers: both 32-bit words are stored in little-endian like integer registers, but the most significant one first. Because there have been many floating-point formats with no \"network\" standard representation for them, the XDR standard uses big-endian IEEE 754 as its representation. It may therefore appear strange that the widespread IEEE 754 floating-point standard does not specify endianness. Theoretically, this means that even standard IEEE floating-point data written by one machine might not be readable by another. However, on modern standard computers (i.e., implementing IEEE 754), one may in practice safely assume that the endianness is the same for floating-point numbers as for integers, making the conversion straightforward regardless of data type. (Small embedded systems using special floating-point formats may be another matter however.)<section end=\"Floating-point\" />\n\nThe little-endian system has the property that the same value can be read from memory at different lengths without using different addresses (even when alignment restrictions are imposed). For example, a 32-bit memory location with content 4A 00 00 00 can be read at the same address as either 8-bit (value = 4A), 16-bit (004A), 24-bit (00004A), or 32-bit (0000004A), all of which retain the same numeric value. Although this little-endian property is rarely used directly by high-level programmers, it is often employed by code optimizers as well as by assembly language programmers.\nIn more concrete terms, such optimizations are the equivalent of the following C code returning true on most little-endian systems:\n\nWhile not allowed by C++, such Type punning code is allowed as \"implementation-defined\" by the C11 standard and commonly used in code interacting with hardware.\n\nOn the other hand, in some situations it may be useful to obtain an approximation of a multi-byte or multi-word value by reading only its most significant portion instead of the complete representation; a big-endian processor may read such an approximation using the same base-address that would be used for the full value.\n\nLittle-endian representation simplifies hardware in processors that add multi-byte integral values a byte at a time, such as small-scale byte-addressable processors and microcontrollers. As carry propagation must start at the least significant bit (and thus byte), multi-byte addition can then be carried out with a monotonically-incrementing address sequence, a simple operation already present in hardware. On a big-endian processor, its addressing unit has to be told how big the addition is going to be so that it can hop forward to the least significant byte, then count back down towards the most significant byte (MSB). On the other hand, arithmetic division is done starting from the MSB, so it is more natural for big-endian processors. However, high-performance processors usually fetch typical multi-byte operands from memory in the same amount of time they would have fetched a single byte, so the complexity of the hardware is not affected by the byte ordering.\n\nThe ARM architecture can also produce this format when writing a 32-bit word to an address 2 bytes from a 32-bit word alignment.\n\nSegment descriptors on Intel 80386 and compatible processors keep a 32-bit base address of the segment stored in little-endian order, but in four nonconsecutive bytes, at relative positions 2, 3, 4 and 7 of the descriptor start.\n\nEndianness is a problem when a binary file created on a computer is read on another computer with different endianness. Some CPU instruction sets provide native support for endian byte swapping, such as \"bswap\" (x86 - 486 and later), and \"rev\" (ARMv6 and later).\n\nSome compilers have built-in facilities to deal with data written in other formats. For example, the Intel Fortran compiler supports the non-standard codice_1 specifier, so a file can be opened as\nor\nSome compilers have options to generate code that globally enables the conversion for all file IO operations. This allows programmers to reuse code on a system with the opposite endianness without having to modify the code itself. If the compiler does not support such conversion, the programmer needs to swap the bytes via ad hoc code.\n\nFortran sequential unformatted files created with one endianness usually cannot be read on a system using the other endianness because Fortran usually implements a record (defined as the data written by a single Fortran statement) as data preceded and succeeded by count fields, which are integers equal to the number of bytes in the data. An attempt to read such file on a system of the other endianness then results in a run-time error, because the count fields are incorrect. This problem can be avoided by writing out sequential binary files as opposed to sequential unformatted.\n\nUnicode text can optionally start with a byte order mark (BOM) to signal the endianness of the file or stream. Its code point is U+FEFF. In UTF-32 for example, a big-endian file should start with codice_4; a little-endian should start with codice_5.\n\nApplication binary data formats, such as for example MATLAB .mat files, or the .BIL data format, used in topography, are usually endianness-independent. This is achieved by:\nWhen reading the file, the application converts the endianness, invisibly from the user. \nAn example of the first case is the binary XLS file format that is portable between Windows and Mac systems and always little endian, leaving the Mac application to swap the bytes on load and save when running on a big-endian Motorola 68K or PowerPC processor.\n\nTIFF image files are an example of the second strategy, whose header instructs the application about endianness of their internal binary integers. If a file starts with the signature \"codice_6\" it means that integers are represented as big-endian, while \"codice_7\" means little-endian. Those signatures need a single 16-bit word each, and they are palindromes (that is, they read the same forwards and backwards), so they are endianness independent. \"codice_8\" stands for Intel and \"codice_9\" stands for Motorola, the respective CPU providers of the IBM PC compatibles (Intel) and Apple Macintosh platforms (Motorola) in the 1980s. Intel CPUs are little-endian, while Motorola 680x0 CPUs are big-endian. This explicit signature allows a TIFF reader program to swap bytes if necessary when a given file was generated by a TIFF writer program running on a computer with a different endianness.\n\nSince the required byte swap depends on the size of the numbers stored in the file (two 2-byte integers require a different swap than one 4-byte integer), the file format must be known to perform endianness conversion.\n\nMany IETF RFCs use the term \"network order\", meaning the order of transmission for bits and bytes \"over the wire\" in network protocols. Among others, the historic RFC 1700 (also known as Internet standard STD 2) has defined the network order for protocols in the Internet protocol suite to be big-endian, hence the use of the term \"network byte order\" for big-endian byte order; however, not all protocols use big-endian byte order as the network order.\n\nThe Berkeley sockets API defines a set of functions to convert 16-bit and 32-bit integers to and from network byte order: the htons (host-to-network-short) and htonl (host-to-network-long) functions convert 16-bit and 32-bit values respectively from machine (\"host\") to network order; the ntohs and ntohl functions convert from network to host order. These functions may be a no-op on a big-endian system.\n\nIn CANopen, multi-byte parameters are always sent least significant byte first (little endian). The same is true for Ethernet Powerlink.\n\nWhile the high-level network protocols usually consider the byte (mostly meant as \"octet\") as their atomic unit, the lowest network protocols may deal with ordering of bits within a byte.\n\nBit numbering is a concept similar to endianness, but on a level of bits, not bytes. \"Bit endianness\" or \"bit-level endianness\" refers to the transmission order of bits over a serial medium. The bit-level analogue of little-endian (least significant bit goes first) is used in RS-232, HDLC, Ethernet, and USB. Some protocols use the opposite ordering (e.g. Teletext, I²C, SMBus, PMBus, and SONET and SDH). Usually, there exists a consistent view to the bits irrespective of their order in the byte, such that the latter becomes relevant only on a very low level. One exception is caused by the feature of some cyclic redundancy checks to detect \"all\" burst errors up to a known length, which would be spoiled if the bit order is different from the byte order on serial transmission.\n\nApart from serialization, the terms \"bit endianness\" and \"bit-level endianness\" are seldom used, as computer architectures where each individual bit has a unique address are rare. Individual bits or bit fields are accessed via their numerical value or, in high-level programming languages, assigned names, the effects of which, however, may be machine dependent or lack software portability. The natural numbering is that the arithmetic left shift 1«\"n\" yields a mask for the bit of position \"n\", a rule which exhibits the machine's (byte) endianness at least if e.g. if used for indexing a sufficiently large bit array. Other numberings do occur in various documentations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39339318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39339318", "title": "Food and Nutrition Products v Neumann", "text": "Food and Nutrition Products v Neumann\n\nFood & Nutritional Products (Pty) Ltd v Neumann is an important case in South African law. An exception to a special plea, it was heard in the Witwatersrand Local Division by Schabort J on May 1, 1985, with judgment handed down on June 7. The excipient's attorneys were Moss-Morris, Mendelow, Braude. The respondent's attorney was Nathan BK Luen. PN Levenberg appeared for the excipient and SJ Nochumsohn for the respondent.\n\nIt is frequently the case that legislation provides that a party may \"apply\" or \"make application\" to court for relief of a particular type. While the court may then be approached on motion, despite the foreseeability of a dispute of fact, statutory provisions of this nature will not be interpreted as rendering application proceedings peremptory in every case; sometimes proceedings by way of action will be permitted instead.\n\n\"In casu\", the court found that the word \"application,\" in section 424(1) of the Companies Act. was not intended to have the narrow meaning of proceedings only by way of motion. Proceedings under the section might therefore be by way of action as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24484993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24484993", "title": "Ginsberg v. New York", "text": "Ginsberg v. New York\n\nGinsberg v. New York, 390 U.S. 629 (1968), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court ruled that material that is not obscene may nonetheless be harmful for children, and its marketing may be regulated.\n\nUnder New York Law it was illegal to willfully sell to a minor under 17 any picture which depicts nudity, is harmful to minors and any magazine which taken as a whole is harmful to minors.\nSam Ginsberg and his wife operated Sam's Stationery and Luncheonette in Bellmore, Long Island. In it they sold magazines including those deemed to be pornographic. He was prosecuted from two informants who testified that he personally sold two 16-year-old boys the magazines containing pornographic images of women. He was tried in Nassau County District Court and found guilty. The court had found that the pictures were harmful to minors under the law.\n\nThe Conviction was upheld by the Appellate Term of the Supreme Court of New York and was denied an appeal to the New York Court of Appeals.\n\nGinsberg argued before the court that the State of New York did not have the power to classify two different sets of the population in regards to obscene material and that it was an unconstitutional deprivation of liberty. He cited \"Meyer v. Nebraska\", \"Pierce v. Society of Sisters\" and \"Prince v. Massachusetts\". All where the court sided with the minors.\n\nJustice Brennan delivered the opinion of the court. The court rejected Ginsberg’s argument that New York had deprived minors of their liberty. The court found that it was well within the state’s power to protect minors and that just because the material is not classified as obscene to adults it may still be regulated with minors.\n\nJustice Douglas wrote a dissent where he strongly objected to the majority’s decision. He found the First Amendment to be an absolute that harbored no exclusion for the obscenity that the rest of the court had found. While he admitted that the material that had been sold to minors could be harmful, Douglas was concerned that the ruling would set a precedent that could be perpetuated to \"protect\" other segments of society from anything the government might deem obscene. He finished by saying the definition of obscenity is impossible to determine because it is highly subjective and laments that the court is forced to sit as the nation's board of censors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2672929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2672929", "title": "Golden Gate, Vladimir", "text": "Golden Gate, Vladimir\n\nThe Golden Gate of Vladimir (), constructed between 1158 and 1164, is the only (albeit partially) preserved ancient Russian city gate. A museum inside focuses on the history of the Mongol invasion of Russia in the 13th century.\n\nGolden Gates existed in the holiest cities of Eastern Orthodoxy: Jerusalem, Constantinople, and Kiev. On making Vladimir his capital, Andrew the Pious aspired to emulate these structures, commissioning a lofty tower over the city's main gate to be erected in limestone and lined with golden plaques. According to ancient Russian chronicles, the masons were invited from Friedrich Barbarossa. The main arch used to stand 15 meters tall. The structure was topped with a barbican church dedicated to the Deposition of the Virgin's Robe and symbolizing the Theotokos's protection of Andrew's capital.\n\nThe gate survived the Mongol destruction of Vladimir in 1237. By the late 18th century, however, the structure had so deteriorated that Catherine the Great was afraid to pass through the arch for fear of its tumbling down. In 1779, she ordered detailed measurements and drawings of the monument to be executed. In 1795, after many discussions, the vaults and barbican church were demolished. Two flanking round towers were constructed in order to reinforce the structure, and artisans then reconstructed the barbican, following the drawings made in 1779.\n\n"}
{"id": "218761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218761", "title": "Golden bull", "text": "Golden bull\n\nA golden bull or chrysobull was a decree issued by Byzantine Emperors and later by monarchs in Europe during the Middle Ages and Renaissance, most notably by the Holy Roman Emperors. The term was originally coined for the golden seal (a \"bulla aurea\"), attached to the decree, but came to be applied to the entire decree. Such decrees were known as golden bulls in western Europe and \"chrysobullos logos\", or chrysobulls, in the Byzantine Empire (χρυσός, \"chrysos\", being Greek for gold).\n\nFor nearly eight hundred years, they were issued unilaterally, without obligations on the part of the other party or parties. However, this eventually proved disadvantageous as the Byzantines sought to restrain the efforts of foreign powers to undermine the empire. During the 12th century, the Byzantines began to insert into golden bulls sworn statements of the obligations of their negotiating partners.\n\nNotable golden bulls included:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "917524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=917524", "title": "I Am Curious (Yellow)", "text": "I Am Curious (Yellow)\n\nI Am Curious (Yellow) (, meaning \"I Am Curious: A Film in Yellow\") is a 1967 Swedish drama film written and directed by Vilgot Sjöman, starring Sjöman and Lena Nyman. It is a companion film to 1968's \"I Am Curious (Blue)\"; the two were initially intended to be one hour film.\n\nDirector Vilgot Sjöman plans to make a social film starring his lover Lena Nyman, a young theater student who has a strong interest in social issues.\n\nNyman's character, also named Lena, lives with her father in a small apartment in Stockholm and is driven by a burning passion for social justice and a need to understand the world, people and relationships. Her little room is filled with books, papers, and boxes full of clippings on topics such as \"religion\" and \"men\", and files on each of the 23 men with whom she has had sex. The walls are covered with pictures of concentration camps and a portrait of Francisco Franco, reminders of the crimes being perpetrated against humanity. She walks around Stockholm and interviews people about social classes in society, conscientious objection, gender equality, and the morality of vacationing in Franco's Spain. She and her friends also picket embassies and travel agencies. Lena's relationship with her father, who briefly went to Spain to fight Franco, is problematic, and she is distressed by the fact that he returned from Spain for unknown reasons after only a short period.\n\nThrough her father Lena meets the slick Bill (Börje in the original Swedish), who works at a menswear shop and voted for the Rightist Party. They begin a love affair, but Lena soon finds out from her father that Bill has another woman, Marie, and a young daughter. Lena is furious that Bill has not been open with her, and goes to the country on a bicycle holiday. Alone in a cabin in the woods, she attempts an ascetic lifestyle, meditating, studying nonviolence and practicing yoga. Bill soon comes looking for her in his new car. She greets him with a shotgun, but they soon start to make love. Lena confronts Bill about Marie, and finds out about another of his lovers, Madeleine. They begin to fight and Bill leaves. Lena has strange dreams, in which she ties two teams of soccer players – she notes that they number 23 – to a tree, shoots Bill and cuts his penis off. She also dreams of being taunted by passing drivers as she cycles down a road, until finally Martin Luther King Jr. drives up. She apologizes to him for not being strong enough to practice nonviolence.\n\nLena returns home, destroys her room, and goes to the car showroom where Bill works to tell him she has scabies. They are treated at a clinic, and then go their separate ways. As the embedded story of Lena and Bill begins to resolve, the film crew and director Sjöman are featured more. The relationship between Lena the actress and Bill the actor has become intimate during the production of Vilgot's film, and Vilgot is jealous and clashes with Bill. The film concludes with Lena returning Vilgot's keys as he meets with another young female theater student.\n\nThe film also includes an interview with Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., filmed in March 1966, when King was visiting Stockholm along with Harry Belafonte with a view to starting a new initiative for Swedish support of African Americans. The film also includes an interview with Minister of Transportation Olof Palme, who talks about the existence of class structure in Swedish society (he was told it was for a documentary film), and footage of Russian poet Yevgeny Yevtushenko.\n\n\nThe film includes numerous and frank scenes of nudity and staged sexual intercourse. One particularly controversial scene features Lena kissing her lover's flaccid penis. In 1969, the film was banned in Massachusetts for being pornographic and Boston police seized the film reels for \"I Am Curious (Yellow)\" from the Symphony Cinemas. After proceedings in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts (\"Karalexis v. Byrne\", 306 F. Supp. 1363 (D. Mass. 1969)), the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and the Supreme Court of the United States (\"Byrne v. Karalexis\", 396 U.S. 976 (1969) and 401 U.S. 216 (1971)), the Second Circuit found the film not to be obscene.\n\nAn arsonist torched the Heights Theater in Houston during the film's run there.\n\nThe film was very popular at the box office, earning an estimated $6.6 million in North American rentals. It was the 12th most popular film in the US in 1969. One reason it did so well was that it became popular among film stars to be seen going to the film. News of Johnny Carson seeing the film legitimized going to see it despite any misgivings about possible pornographic content.\n\nInitial reception to Curious Yellow was divided. Vincent Canby of the \"New York Times\" referred to it as a \"Good, serious movie about a society in transition,\" and Norman Mailer said he felt \"like a better man\" after having seen it. Conversely, Rex Reed described the film as \"about as good for you as drinking furniture polish\" and Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" lambasted it as \"a dog... a real dog\" and \"stupid and slow and uninteresting.\".\n\nIn recent years, Yellow has received some reappraisal, thanks in part to Gary Giddins, who authored the 2003 essay accompanying the Criterion Collection DVD release, and a review by Nathan Southern on the All Movie Guide website. Southern assesses the picture as \"a droll and sophisticated comedy about the emotional, political, social, and sexual liberation of a young woman... a real original that has suffered from public incomprehension since its release and is crying out for reassessment and rediscovery.\".\n\nAs of August 2015, \"I Am Curious (Yellow)\" received a 52% rating based on 25 reviews, 13 \"fresh\" and 12 \"rotten\" on the review aggregate website Rotten Tomatoes.\n\nNyman won the award for Best Actress at the 5th Guldbagge Awards for her role in this film and \"I Am Curious (Blue)\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21791310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21791310", "title": "Interior Museum", "text": "Interior Museum\n\nThe Interior Museum is a museum operated by the United States Department of the Interior and housed at the Department's headquarters at the Stewart Lee Udall Main Interior Building in Washington, D.C., on the first floor.\n\nWhen the Interior Museum opened in the U.S. Department of the Interior's newly-constructed headquarters in the nation's capital on March 8, 1938, a museum was considered a novel element to include in a federal office building. However, the Secretary of the Interior at that time—Harold Ickes (1874-1952)—was a proponent of the arts and also strongly believed in the importance of having the American people understand the work of the Department. To this day, the Interior Museum's mission remains to actively educate and inspire employees and the public about the ongoing stewardship of the nation's public lands, natural resources, and cultural heritage. The Interior Museum's collection contains more than 8,000 objects of historical, cultural, and scientific importance relating directly to the activities of the Department. \n\nIn addition to developing exhibitions and public programs, Interior Museum staff also conduct public tours highlighting the elements that made the Stewart Lee Udall Department of the Interior Building a \"symbol of a new day\" during the Great Depression. The headquarters building contains more New Deal-era murals than any other government building, featuring such artists as John Steuart Curry, Maynard Dixon, William Gropper, Allan Houser, Velino Herrera, and Millard Sheets, plus a series of photomurals by Ansel Adams.\n\nAdmission is free, but valid photo identification must be presented to enter the building. Museum hours are Monday through Friday, 8:30AM to 4:30PM (closed federal holidays). Building tours are offered on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 2PM; advance reservations are required.\n\n"}
{"id": "30423868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30423868", "title": "Is This Tomorrow?", "text": "Is This Tomorrow?\n\nIs This Tomorrow? is a comic strip, created by Kelly Shane and Woody Compton, begun as a college newspaper feature in 1991 and revived as a webcomic in 2003. The comic is experimental in form and though it includes recurring characters, the subject matter and style often varies from strip to strip. The name was taken from the anti-Communist comic book \"Is This Tomorrow\" published in 1947 by the Catechetical Guild Educational Society of St. Paul, Minnesota.\n\nIn its original incarnation, the strip appeared on a semi-regular basis from 1991 to 1992 in the \"Florida Flambeau\", a student-run newspaper affiliated with Florida State University and Florida A&M in Tallahassee, FL.\n\nThe strip was revived as a webcomic on July 14, 2003 and ran weekly until June 7, 2004. Occasional strips were posted in 2004 and 2005.\nOn September 4, 2006, the strip began a weekly series titled Aether Transmission, which is still ongoing. Though still varying in subject matter, writing style and graphic presentation, these strips are uniform in size and employ reoccurring characters.\n\n\"Is This Tomorrow?\" has done strips and features utilizing 3-D, including the first anaglyphic 3-D webcomic, \"First Anniversary Comic (in 3-D)\" (also titled \"Atheists From Outer Space\"), on July 12, 2004. The July 12, 2010 comic \"Post-Modern Love in 1.5-D\" utilizes anaglyphic 3-D glasses to allow two images to appear in the last panel, letting the reader choose between a happy or unhappy ending. The strip \"Hypno-Illusio-Vision\" (August 2, 2010) uses an optical illusion as part of the story and design.\n\nThe comic's creators collaborated with musician Coconut Monkeyrocket on the December 21, 2009 strip \"I.T.T. Breaks the Sound Barrier ,\" a comic utilizing sound loops.\n\nThe strip \"Thomas Pynchon: Man of Mystery\" was reprinted as an accompany graphic to an article in the 2009 edition of the \"Encyclopædia Universalis\", a French language encyclopedia.\n\nTexts from the strips \"The Annotated Steve Ditko Story Part 1\" and \"Steve Ditko Part 2\" were reprinted as a biography of Steve Ditko in \"The Thunder Agents Companion\" (TwoMorrows Publishing), edited by Jon B. Cooke.\n\n"}
{"id": "54712531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54712531", "title": "James Amster", "text": "James Amster\n\nJames Amster (July 18, 1908 – June 11, 1986) was an interior decorator in New York City in the 1960s who created the Amster Yard, a New York Historic Landmark.\n\nAmster was born on July 18, 1908, in Lynn, Massachusetts, and grew up in Boston, in a house with a yard, probably the reason why he decided to restore the Amster Yard in Manhattan.\n\nAmster attended the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, where he studied sculpture and painting.\n\nAmster was known for his community involvement on the Turtle Bay, Manhattan, neighborhood, and for his traditional style as interior decorator.\n\nAt first Amster worked for Bergdorf Goodman, a luxury goods department store based on Fifth Avenue in New York City and opened and managed its decorating and antiques department.\n\nAmster went solo in 1938, opening his design firm. Among his clients: businesses, shipbuilders and hotels in both Central America and United States. He is the interior designer responsible for the redecoration of The Pierre, a luxury hotel located at 2 East 61st Street, Manhattan.\n\nIn 1957 Amster founded E. 49th Street Association, later Turtle Bay Association. The first meetings of the association were held at Amster Yard.\n\nAmster was also affiliated with: the Prescott Neighborhood House (chairman), the Prescott Nursery School (chairman) and the Friends of Peter Detmold Park Foundation (president). Peter Detmold (1923–1972) was a friend of Amster from the Turtle Bay Association, who was killed in 1972; his murderer was never found.\n\nIn 1944 Amster restored what is now known as Amster Yard, designated in 1966 a New York City Designated Landmark, at 211 1/2 East 49th Street. The building was originally a 19th-century boarding house, a station of the Boston Post Road and a commercial yard, but when Amster bought it in 1944 it was abandoned.\n\nAmster renovated the building, with the help of Ted Sandier (architect) and Harold Sterner (artist), creating an inner yard connecting several apartments/studios which he rented to many key figures in the design field: Norman Norell (fashion designer), Billy Baldwin (interior designer), Isamu Noguchi (sculptor), and SwidPowell (firm). Across the yard there was a Greek handicraft store where Jacqueline Kennedy used to shop.\nOne of the apartments was Amster's home, which he decorated with Biedermeier furniture; his 1946 Christmas tree, decorated with 15th and 16th century saints, a Christ child, and 18th century hand-blown glass balls was featured on a full page on Life Magazine on December 9.\n\nDuring the party hosted by Amster to inaugurate the Yard, Elsie de Wolfe, mentor to Amster, suggested that he put a mirror at one end of the Yard to give the impression that the Yard was bigger. Amster framed the mirror inside an arch. The mirror is still in place at the Yard today.\n\nJames Amster was in a long-lasting relationship with Robert K. Moyer. Concerning the Amster-Moyer relationship, journalist and friend Mike Wallace described them in 1995 as \"a wonderful old married couple\" and \"both people that [sic] I admired\".\n\nAmster was also friends with Constance Spry, British educator and florist, and Syrie Maugham, leading British interior decorator of the 1920s and 1930s and wife to W. Somerset Maugham.\n\nAmster died of leukemia on June 11, 1986. Moyer continued to live at Amster Yard until 1992, when he was the last tenant to move out. Amster Yard was acquired in 1999 and renovated by the Instituto Cervantes, New York, and since 2002, the Instituto allows people to use the yard as a pocket park. However, when the Instituto acquired the property, much of it was destroyed. And, indeed, the premises had fallen into disrepair. According to Tina Kelley in \"The New York Times\" in 2002: \"Most of its courtyard, trees and walkways have been dug up, right down to the schist... Most of its buildings have been demolished.\" Thus, even though the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission stepped in after the damage was done, the Instituto through its site's developers, the Instituto Cervantes, promised to restore the Yard. However, a complete restoration is not as it was. Kelley in \"The Times\"'s May 21, 2002, article reported: \"But some people involved in the project regret that the final product will not include the actual older, protected buildings.\"\n"}
{"id": "9560826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9560826", "title": "Jim Cox (radio)", "text": "Jim Cox (radio)\n\nJim Cox, a retired college professor living in Louisville, Kentucky, is a leading historian on the subject of radio programming in the 20th century. He has written extensively on the history of radio from the 1920s to the present.\n\nThrough McFarland & Company and Scarecrow Press, Cox has published more than 15 books, including the recent \"Radio Speakers: Narrators, News Junkies, Sports Jockeys, Tattletales, Tipsters, Toastmasters and Coffee Klatch Couples Who Verbalized the Jargon of the Aural Ether from the 1920s to the 1980s—A Biographical Dictionary\" (2007). The book profiles of more than 1,100 “radio speakers,” including Red Barber, H. V. Kaltenborn, Dorothy Kilgallen, Edward R. Murrow, Louella Parsons and Walter Winchell.\n\nOther books by Cox include \"The Daytime Serials of Television, 1946–1960\" (2006), \"Historical Dictionary of American Radio Soap Operas\" (2005), \"Music Radio\" (2005), \"Mr. Keen, Tracer of Lost Persons\" (2004), \"Frank and Anne Hummert’s Radio Factory\" (2003), \"Radio Crime Fighters\" (2002), \"Say Goodnight, Gracie: The Last Years of Network Radio\" (2002), \"The Great Radio Audience Participation Shows\" (2001), \"The Great Radio Soap Operas\" (1999) and \"Rails Across Dixie\" (2011).\n\nAt the Friends of Old Time Radio Convention, vintage radio’s largest annual event, Cox was the recipient of the 2002 Ray Stanich Award, given annually for prolific research and writing on the subject of old time radio. Cox is a frequent guest at the Mid-Atlantic Nostalgia Convention, held annually in Aberdeen, Maryland.\n\nWhile Cox contributes to vintage radio club newsletters and nostalgia periodicals, his range of interests also includes travel, railroads, swimming, baseball, history and government. An active churchman, husband, father and grandfather, he volunteers weekly with charitable organizations. In 2007, Cox received the Stone-Waterman Award presented by the Cincinnati Old Time Radio and Nostalgia Convention for outstanding contributions to the preservation of old time radio history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3976959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3976959", "title": "Kalku", "text": "Kalku\n\nKalku or Calcu, in Mapuche mythology, is a sorcerer or witch who works with black magic and negative powers or forces. The essentially benevolent shamans are more often referred to as \"machi\", to avoid confusion with the malevolent kalku. Its origins are in Mapuche tradition.\n\nThe \"kalku\" is a semi-mythical character that has the power of working with \"wekufe\" \"spirits or wicked creatures\". An example of a \"wekufe\" is the Nguruvilu. The \"kalku\" also have as servants other beings such as the Anchimayen, or the Chonchon (which is the magical manifestation of the more powerful \"kalku\").\n\nA mapuche \"kalku\" is usually an inherited role, although it could be a \"machi\" that is interested in lucrative ends, or a \"less powerful\", frustrated \"machi\" who ignores the laws of the admapu (the rules of the Mapuches).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44280599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44280599", "title": "Lexikon der indogermanischen Partikeln und Pronominalstämme", "text": "Lexikon der indogermanischen Partikeln und Pronominalstämme\n\nThe Lexikon der indogermanischen Partikeln und Pronominalstämme (LIPP, \"Lexicon of the Indo-European Particles and Pronominal Stems\") is an etymological dictionary of the Proto-Indo-European (PIE) particles and pronouns, published in 2014. It consists of two volumes; number 1 containing an introduction, terminology, sound laws, adverbial endings, nominal suffixes, appendices, and indices, and number 2 containing the lexicon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47865189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47865189", "title": "List of Cambridge Companions to Music", "text": "List of Cambridge Companions to Music\n\nThe Cambridge Companions to Music form a book series published by Cambridge University Press. Each book is a collection of essays on the topic commissioned by the publisher.\n\n"}
{"id": "1896480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1896480", "title": "Machine de Marly", "text": "Machine de Marly\n\nThe Machine de Marly, also known as the Marly Machine or the Machine of Marly, was a large hydraulic system in Yvelines, France, built in 1684 to pump water from the river Seine and deliver it to the Palace of Versailles.\n\nKing Louis XIV needed a large water supply for his fountains at Versailles. Before the Marly Machine was built, the amount of water delivered to Versailles already exceeded that used by the city of Paris, but this was insufficient, and fountain-rationing was necessary. Ironically most of the water pumped by the Marly Machine ended up being used to develop a new garden at the Château de Marly. However, even if all the water pumped at Marly (an average of 3,200 cubic metres per day, or 845,351 gallons per day) had been supplied to Versailles, it still would not have been enough: the fountains running \"à l'ordinaire\" (that is, at half pressure) required at least four times as much.\n\nThe Machine de Marly, based on a prototype at Modave Castle, consisted of fourteen gigantic water wheels, each roughly 11.5 meters or 38 feet in diameter, that powered more than 250 pumps to bring water up a hillside from the Seine River to the Louveciennes Aqueduct. Louis XIV had countless schemes and inventions that were supposed to bring water to his fountains. The Machine de Marly was by far his most extensive and costly plan. After three years of construction and a cost of approximately 5,500,000 livres, the massive contraption, considered the most complex of the 17th century, was completed. \"The chief engineer for the project was Arnold de Ville and the 'contractor' was Rennequin Sualem (after whom the quai by the machine is now named).\" Both men had experience in pumping water from coal mines in the region of Liège (in modern Belgium).\n\nThe machine suffered from frequent breakdowns, required a permanent staff of sixty to maintain, and often required costly repairs, but worked 133 years. Destroyed in 1817, it was replaced by a \"machine temporaire\" during 10 years and then a steam engine entered in service from 1827 to 1859. From 1859 to 1963, the pumping at Marly was assumed by another hydraulic machine conceived by the engineer Xavier Dufrayer. Dufrayer's machine was scrapped in 1968 and replaced by electromechanical pumps.\n\nFrom the beginning, the construction of the château and the park of Versailles water supply had posed a problem. The site chosen by Louis XIV, a former hunting lodge of Louis XIII, was far removed from any river and high in elevation. The sovereign's will to have a park with more and more basins, water jets and fountains became a hallmark of his reign by the extension and improvement of a permanent water supply system with the construction of new pumps, aqueducts and reservoirs to collect ever more water, from a greater and greater distance.\n\nThe idea to bring water from the Seine to Versailles had always been under consideration. But more than just the distance - the river is located nearly 10 km from the château - there was the problem of the elevation to ascend, nearly 150 meters (490 feet). Since 1670, Jean-Baptiste Colbert, Louis XIV's Superintendent of the King's Buildings, had opposed several projects, including one proposed by , both for reasons of feasibility and that of cost.\n\nBut Arnold de Ville (1653-1722), a young and ambitious bourgeois of Huy in the Province of Liège, who had already built a pump in Saint-Maur, succeeded in submitting to the king his project for pumping the waters of the River Seine to the Château of Val in the forest of Saint-Germain, demonstrating that the same could be done to supply Versailles. This machine, a sort of small scale model of what the Machine of Marly could be, impressed the king, who then entrusted him with the development of a machine on the Seine to supply not only the gardens of Versailles, but also those of the Chateau of Marly then under construction.\n\nThe Machine de Marly site is located 7 km (4.4 mi) north of the Château de Versailles and 16.3 km (10.2 mi) west of the center of Paris, on the Seine in the Yvelines department. The river pumps and administration buildings are in the town of Bougival; relay pumps, machinery, the aqueduct and reservoirs are located in Louveciennes. One reservoir is in the town of Marly-le-Roi.\n\nBetween Port-Marly and Bezons, the Seine, along its length, was divided into two arms by a series of islands and earth berms linked together by timber/rock dikes to form two disconnected, parallel river beds over ten kilometers in length. The hydraulic pumping machinery, propelling the river water to the top of the hill that borders the Seine, was constructed across from the left arm of the river, a little below the small village of La Chaussée, downstream of Bougival.\n\nTo design and build this machine, Arnold de Ville, who did not have the technical skills, appealed to two men from Liège, the master carpenter and mechanic Rennequin Sualem (1645-1708) and his brother Paulus. He had already worked with them on a pump at the Château de Modave and Rennequin Sualem was the designer of the pump at the Château de Val. The entire project – channeling and dikes on the Seine, construction of the machine and the network of aqueducts and basins – would last for 6 years. The site chosen on the Seine was that of Bougival (at the location of the current locks of Bougival).\n\nAbout 7 kilometers upstream, Colbert channeled a portion of the Seine by linking several islands with dikes from the island of Bezons and separating the river into two arms, a western arm for navigation and an eastern arm destined to supply the machine by creating a constriction and a drop of about three meters to power the 14 paddle wheels of the machine. The construction mobilized 1800 workers and required more than 100,000 tons of wood, 17,000 tons of iron and 800 tons of lead and as much cast iron. The wood used in the construction of the platform and the wheels of the machine, and for the dikes between the islands and for the buildings came from the surrounding forests. The iron for rods came from the Nivernais and Champagne and most of the cast iron pipe was produced in Normandy.\n\nA large number of Walloons came to work on the project. They possessed a know-how acquired from their work on water evacuation from mines. Many defected as well because of the economic difficulties encountered then in Wallonia, which had been ravaged by wars. Illiterate, the Sualem brothers were from a family of master carpenters from the mines of Liège. They were the only ones to have mastered the mechanism for remote power transmission, the flatrod system necessary for the proper functioning of the machine of Marly. The Walloon craftsmen went on to become the primary maintenance men essential for the enormous task of keeping the machine in working order.\n\nThe work began in June 1681 with the canalization of the Seine. The construction of the machine began at the end of 1681. On June 14, 1682, a successful demonstration was held in the presence of Louis XIV. The water could be elevated to the top of the hillside. The machine was inaugurated June 13, 1684 by the king and his court. The aqueduc de Louveciennes was completed in 1685 and the entire project, three years later, in 1688.\n\nThe total cost of the project was 5.5 million livres tournois (over 100 million dollars 2015 ). It included the construction of the machine itself (3,859,583 livres), buildings, aqueducts and water basins, the supply of materials, and the wages of the workers and artisans. (Rennequin Sualem was the best paid with 1800 pounds per year.). After the end of the work and the successful demonstration, Rennequin Sualem was appointed First Engineer of the King by Louis XIV and knighted. To the king, who asked him how he had had the idea of this machine, Rennequin answered in Walloon: \"Tot tuzant, Sire\" (\"By thinking hard, Sire\"). Arnold de Ville earned a great deal of money from the success of the machine and was able to rise into the aristocracy.\n\nThe engraving illustrated here describes the functioning of the machine as follows:\n\nTHE MACHINE OF MARLY is built on an arm of the Seine river. It consists of 14 wheels of 30 feet [11.9 m; 39 English feet] in diameter, the axles of which have two cranks, one which moves the pistons which push the water into the pipes and raise it up to the first reservoir; the other moves a system of crossarm levers which run the length of the mountain up to the highest reservoir. These crossarms power the pumps which are in the reservoirs and pump the water from the lower reservoir to the upper and from there to the top of the tower which is at the summit of the mountain, from where it runs over a large aqueduct which feeds different pipes to furnish all the waters of Versailles and Marly.\"\n\nPumping technology of the era of Louis XIV did not allow the delivery of water from the Seine to the top of the aqueduct of Louveciennes, an elevation differential of more than 150 meters (490 feet) in just one stage, so two intermediate pump relay stations were built, one at 48 meters (156 feet) and another at 99 meters (322 feet) above the river. Pumps in the relay locations were powered by two sets of oscillating timber and metal tie-rod linkages, driven by the river paddle wheels. A reservoir at each station buffered the water supply for each level of pumps.\n\nSome remnants of Dufrayer's machine are still visible today, but little remains of the original 17th-century masterpiece built by the Sualem brothers, de Ville and Louis XIV.\n\nThe overgrown walls of the mid-slope reservoir are visible on the hillside, just adjacent to the cobblestone path that runs straight up the incline. The paving stones on this 17th century service road are set with their top edges slightly exposed to allow better traction for the horses which hauled loads uphill.\n\nTwo administration buildings from the original Machine complex of 1684 still exist next to the Seine.\n\nThe building which housed the steam-driven pumping machine from 1825 can still be seen next to the river as well.\n\nAn engraving of the Paris Observatory from the beginning of the eighteenth century shows the wooden \"Marly tower\" on the right, a dismantled part of the Machine de Marly (the temporary tower replaced by La tour du Levant at the beginning of the Aqueduc de Louveciennes), moved to the Paris Observatory by astronomer Giovanni Domenico Cassini for mounting long telescopes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2359729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2359729", "title": "Master of the Faculties", "text": "Master of the Faculties\n\nThe Master of the Faculties is a functionary in the office of the Archbishop of Canterbury and has some important powers in English law, in particular the appointment and regulation of public notaries. The position is now always held by the Dean of Arches.\n\nThe Master of Faculties has retained his historical responsibility with respect to public notaries in England and Wales. This regulatory function is now subject to the statutory provisions of the Public Notaries Acts 1801 and 1843, and the Courts and Legal Services Act 1990. The Master of Faculties is an approved regulator under the Legal Services Act 2007: it is the sole relevant approved regulator for notaries but is also a relevant approved regulator for certain dealings in land registration and real property, and for probate and the administration of oaths.\n\nThe Master of Faculties also has responsibility for the issue of special licences for marriage in England and Wales, and for Lambeth degrees.\n\nPublic notaries in some Commonwealth jurisdictions, such as New Zealand and Queensland, Australia, are still appointed through the office of the Archbishop of Canterbury, though in all other Australian States and Territories they are appointed by the relevant Supreme Court.\n\nFollowing the English Reformation, the Ecclesiastical Licences Act 1533, s.3 gave the Archbishop, or \"hys commissarie\", power to issue \"suche licences dispensacions composicions faculties delegacies rescriptes instrumentes or wrytynges have byn accustomed to be had, at the See of Rome\". This included the power to appoint notaries in the ecclesiastical courts and the office of \"commissarie\" developed into that of the Master of the Faculties.\n\nThe Master was formerly the principal officer of the Court of Faculties, one of the ecclesiastical courts, and also had the power, under the 1533 Act to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1599411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1599411", "title": "Montagu House, Bloomsbury", "text": "Montagu House, Bloomsbury\n\nMontagu House (sometimes spelled \"Montague\") was a late 17th-century mansion in Great Russell Street in the Bloomsbury district of London, which became the first home of the British Museum. The first house on the site was destroyed by fire in 1686. The rebuilt house was sold to the British Museum in 1759, and demolished in the 1840s to make way for a larger building.\n\nThe house was actually built twice, both times for the same man, Ralph Montagu, 1st Duke of Montagu. The late 17th century was Bloomsbury's most fashionable era, and Montagu purchased a site which is now in the heart of London but which then backed onto open fields (the Long Fields).\n\nHis first house was designed by the English architect and scientist Robert Hooke, an architect of moderate ability whose style was influenced by French planning and Dutch detailing, and was built between 1675 and 1679. Admired by contemporaries, it had a central block and two service blocks flanking a large courtyard and featured murals by the Italian artist Antonio Verrio. The French painter Jacques Rousseau also contributed wall paintings. In 1686, the house was destroyed by fire.\n\nThe house was rebuilt to the designs of an otherwise little known Frenchman called Pouget. This Montagu House was by some margin the grandest private residence constructed in London in the last two decades of the 17th century. The main façade was of seventeen bays, with a slightly projecting three bay centre and three bay ends, which abutted the service wings of the first mansion. The house was of two main storeys, plus basement and a prominent mansard roof with a dome over the centre. The planning was in the usual French form of the time, with state apartments leading from a central saloon. The interiors, decorated by French artists, were admired by Horace Walpole and were probably comparable to the surviving state apartments at Boughton House in Northamptonshire, which were built for the same patron at the same time.\n\nIn the early 18th century, Bloomsbury began to decline gently from a fashionable aristocratic district to a more middle class enclave, and the 2nd Duke of Montagu abandoned his father's house to move to Whitehall. He built himself a more modest residence which was later replaced with an opulent mansion by his Victorian descendant, Walter Montagu Douglas Scott, 5th Duke of Buccleuch: \"see Montagu House, Whitehall.\" Montagu House in Bloomsbury was sold to the Trustees of the British Museum in 1759 and was the home of that institution until it was demolished in the 1840s to make way for larger premises.\n\nIn fiction, the House appears in Neal Stephenson's \"The Baroque Cycle\" as Ravenscar House with Daniel Waterhouse as the architect in place of Hooke.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30006321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30006321", "title": "Museum of Life (film)", "text": "Museum of Life (film)\n\nMuseum of Life is a 2010 BBC Two documentary, that takes a look behind the scenes at the Natural History Museum, London. It is introduced and co-presented by Jimmy Doherty, who was a volunteer at the Natural History Museum ten years previously. Other presenters are Kate Bellingham, Liz Bonnin, Mark Carwardine, and Chris van Tulleken. \n\nThe six-part program ranges over topics such as the care and maintenance of the museum's 70 million specimens, and the relevance of research by the museum scientists to contemporary problems such as biodiversity loss and the spread of tropical disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "2268111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2268111", "title": "Mythology (book)", "text": "Mythology (book)\n\nMythology: Timeless Tales of Gods and Heroes is a book written by Edith Hamilton, published in 1942 by Little, Brown and Company. It has been reissued since then by several publishers. It retells stories of Greek, Roman, and Norse mythology drawn from a variety of sources. The introduction includes commentary on the major classical poets used as sources, and on how changing cultures have led to changing characterizations of the deities and their myths. It is frequently used in high schools and colleges as an introductory text to ancient mythology and belief.\n\nThe book contains an introduction and seven sections:\n\nMost editions include drawings by American illustrator Steele Savage.\n"}
{"id": "5127487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5127487", "title": "Nave's Topical Bible", "text": "Nave's Topical Bible\n\nNave's Topical Bible is a book written by Orville James Nave (1841–1917) and published by Thomas Nelson Publishers. Nave was a chaplain in the United States Army and referred to his work as \"the result of fourteen years of delight and untiring study of the Word of God.\" It is a topical concordance of the Bible, and contains Biblical references to over 20,000 topics. Scripture is quoted over 100,000 times; the same Scripture citation may appear under several headings.\n\nThe topic headings are broad, covering many religious concepts, geographical regions, and names of Biblical figures. While theological concepts such as salvation and worship are included, a wide range of topics, such as Biblical references to ropes, are also included. This reflects the author's intention, as stated in the book's preface, to \"...note and classify everything found in the Scriptures\".\n\nThe book took fourteen years to complete. Its original copyrights were 1896 and 1897. Until at least 1907 the book was published by the Topical Bible Publishing Company of Lincoln Nebraska. At least seven editions have been published, based on the King James Version and Revised Version of the Bible. Each verse of the Bible is indexed according to the topics it is classified under. Christian figures such as Billy Graham have endorsed the book.\n\n"}
{"id": "6470278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6470278", "title": "New York City Museum School", "text": "New York City Museum School\n\nThe New York City Museum School (NYCMS) is a public school for grades 9–12 in Chelsea, Manhattan, New York City, United States.\n\nThe NYC Museum School offers students access to primary resources in the sciences, history, literature and the arts. The unique use of museum collections enables students to examine evidence, illustrate ideas, provoke questions, and suggest new ways of presenting knowledge. Classroom instruction is reinforced with museum-based projects that are geared to state and local curricular mandates. Students explore, apply and create knowledge in the context of individual and group learning.\n\nThe school's curriculum requires weekly visits to museums all over New York City, where an NYCMS teacher conducts class in conjunction with Museum staff. These visits supplement conventional classes held inside the school.\n\nNYCMS provides education to a heterogeneous group of students from a diverse community. The faculty includes licensed teachers and museum professionals who collaborate to design the curriculum.\n\nThe school partners with museums such as the Brooklyn Museum, South Street Seaport Museum and The Metropolitan Museum of Art\n\n"}
{"id": "2121986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121986", "title": "Old Moore's Almanack", "text": "Old Moore's Almanack\n\nOld Moore’s Almanack is an astrological almanac which has been published in Britain since 1697.\n\nIt was written and published by Francis Moore, a self-taught physician and astrologer who served at the court of Charles II.\n\nThe first edition in 1697 contained weather forecasts. In 1700 Moore published Vox Stellarum, The Voice of the Stars, containing astrological observations; this was also known as \"Old Moore’s Almanack\". It was a bestseller throughout the 18th and 19th centuries, selling as many as 107,000 copies in 1768.\n\nThe almanac is still published annually by W. Foulsham & Company Limited, giving predictions of world and sporting events, as well as more conventional data such as tide tables. It claims to have predicted the September 11 attacks.\n\n"}
{"id": "35590843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35590843", "title": "Phablet", "text": "Phablet\n\nThe phablet () is a class of mobile devices combining or straddling the size format of smartphones and tablets. The word itself is a portmanteau of the words \"phone\" and \"tablet\". \n\nPhablets feature large displays that complement screen-intensive activity such as mobile web browsing and multimedia viewing. They may also include software optimized for an integral self-storing stylus to facilitate sketching, note-taking and annotation. Phablets were originally designed for the Asian market where consumers could not afford both a smartphone and tablet as in North America; phones for that market are known for having \"budget-specs-big-battery\" with large low resolution screens and midrange processors, although other phablets have flagship specifications. Since then, phablets in North America have also become successful for several reasons; Android 4.0 and subsequent releases of Android were suited to large as well as small screen sizes, while older consumers preferred larger screen sizes on smartphones due to deteriorating eyesight.\n\nWhile Samsung's Galaxy Note (2011) is largely credited with popularizing the phablet when launched in 2011, examples of earlier devices with similar form factors date to 1993.\n\nThe popularity of phablets grew dramatically in 2012, as a successor to the original Galaxy Note, along with the falling costs and increasing power efficiency of smartphone displays, began to fuel competition in the market from other smartphone manufacturers, including Lenovo, LG, HTC, Huawei, Micromax, and Sony; IHS, Samsung reported that 25.6 million phablets were sold in 2012 alone. Due to the market's growth, Reuters called 2013 the \"Year of the Phablet\". In 2014, noting that phablets had overtaken laptops and desktops in global sales, \"The New York Times\" said \"phablets could become the dominant computing device of the futurethe most popular kind of phone on the market, and perhaps the only computer many of us need\". \n\nThe definition of a phablet has changed in recent years due to the proliferation of larger displays on mainstream smartphones, and smartphones designed with thin bezels and/or curved screens to make them more compact than other devices with similar screen sizes. Thus, a device with a \"phablet-sized\" screen may not necessarily be considered one.\n\nCurrent phablets typically have a diagonal display measurement between and , assuming a aspect ratio. In comparison, most flagship smartphones released in 2016 have a screen size of around , with larger versions of mainstream flagships (such as iPhone 7 Plus, Pixel XL, and Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge) using displays. \"PhoneArena\" argued that the S7 Edge was not a phablet, as it has a narrow and compact build with a physical footprint more in line with the smaller-screened Nexus 5X, due primarily to its use of a display with curved edges.\n\nIn 2017, LG, Samsung, and Apple each began to produce flagship smartphones (LG G6, Samsung Galaxy S8, and iPhone X) with displays taller than the conventional 16:9 aspect ratio used by the majority of devices, and diagonal screen sizes in line with those of phablets. However, in these cases, the sizes of the two devices are more compact than 16:9 aspect ratio devices with equivalent diagonal screen sizes.\n\nIn 2018, some models of Huawei like Mate 20 X and Honor 8X Max have surpassed the barrier of 7 inches of diagonal screen size.\n\nIn tracing the 10 earliest devices in the history of the phablet concept, \"PC Magazine\" called the 1993 AT&T EO 440, \"the first true phablet\", followed by the following devices:\n\n\nThe Android-based Dell Streak included a 5-inch (130 mm), 800×480 display and a widescreen-optimized interface. Reviewers encountered issues with its outdated operating system, Android 1.6 (which was not yet optimized for such a large screen size), and the device was commercially unsuccessful.\n\nThe Samsung Galaxy Note used a screen. While some media outlets questioned the viability of the device, the Note received positive reception for its stylus functionality, the speed of its 1.5 GHz dual-core processor, and the advantages of its high resolution display. The Galaxy Note was a commercial success; Samsung announced in December 2011 that the Galaxy Note had sold 1 million units in two months. In February 2012, Samsung debuted a Note version with LTE support. By August 2012, the Note had sold 10 million units worldwide.\n\nIn late 2012, Samsung introduced the Galaxy Note II, featuring a 1.6 GHz quad-core processor, a screen and the ability to run two applications at once via a split-screen view. The Note II also incorporated a refreshed hardware design based on the Galaxy S III, with a narrower, smoother body. International sales of the Galaxy Note II reached 5 million in two months. The 2012 LG Optimus Vu used a 5-inch (130 mm) display with an unusual in contrast to the aspect ratio used by most smartphones. Joining the Galaxy Note II on many carriers' lineups in 2013 was the nearly-identically-sized LG Optimus G Pro, released in April.\n\nIn late-2012 and early 2013, companies began to release smartphones with 5 inch screens at 1080p resolution, such as the HTC Droid DNA and Samsung Galaxy S4. Despite the screen size approaching those of phablets, HTC's design director Jonah Becker said that the Droid DNA was not a phablet. HTC would release a proper phablet, the HTC One Maxa smartphone with a screen and a design based on its popular HTC One model, in October 2013.\n\nExamples of Android phablets with screens larger than 6 inches began appearing in 2013; with the Chinese company Huawei unveiling its Ascend Mate at Consumer Electronics Show, and Samsung introducing the Galaxy Mega, a phablet with a variant, which has midrange specs and lacks a stylus compared to the flagship Galaxy Note series. Sony Mobile also entered the phablet market with its Xperia Z Ultra.\n\nAs a variation of the concept, Asus and Samsung also released otherwise small-sized tablets, the FonePad, Galaxy Note 8.0 and Galaxy Tab 3 8.0, with cellular connectivity and the ability to place voice calls. Later that year, Nokia also introduced Windows Phone 8 phablets, such as the 6-inch Lumia 1520.\n\nIn September 2014, Apple released its first phablet, the -inch iPhone 6 Plus; the introduction of the new model reversed a previous policy under late Apple CEO Steve Jobs not to produce a mid-sized device larger than the iPhone or smaller than the iPad, which were 3.5 inches and 9.7 inches, respectively, at the time of his death. While Apple's iPad heavily dominated the tablet market, the void in their lineup left an opening for intermediate-sized, with other handset manufacturers already jumping on the trend of producing larger screen sizes to suit all niches.\n\n\"Engadget\" identified falling screen prices, increasing screen power efficiency and battery life, and the evolving importance of multimedia viewing as critical factors in the popularity of the phablet. Phablets also satisfy a consumer needfor the perfect sized device, since smartphones may be too small for viewing and tablets lose their portabilityfuelling their global market growth. Phablets have also been popular with an older demographic of smartphone userstheir large screens provide a benefit to those with deteriorating eyesight.\n\nIn April 2013, Doug Conklyn, vice president of global design for Dockers told Fox News that the company reworked the size of its pants pockets \"to accommodate the growing size of smartphones\". For women, a small handbag can easily accommodate a phablet, but not most tablets.\n\nIn January 2013, IHS reported that 25.6 million phablet devices were sold in 2012 and estimated that these figures would grow to 60.4 million in 2013, and 146 million by 2016. Barclays projected sales of phablets rising from 27 million in 2012 to 230 million in 2015. In September 2013 International Data Corporation (IDC) reported that its research indicated that phablets \"overtook shipments of both laptops and tablets in Asia in the second quarter of 2013\".\n\nIn 2014, \"Business Insider\" predicted phablets would outsell smartphones by 2017. Speaking with CNET in 2014, David Burke, Vice President of Engineering at Google, said \"If you gave them a phablet for a week, 50 percent of [consumers] would say they like it and not go back\".\n\nIn Q1 2014, phablets made up 6% of US smartphones sold. In the first quarter of 2015, phablets accounted for 21% of all smartphones sold in the US, with the iPhone 6 Plus making up 44 percent of those phablets sold.\n\n</br>\n"}
{"id": "48913555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48913555", "title": "Pricena", "text": "Pricena\n\nPricena(Arabic: برايسنا) is a shopping comparison engine serving the Middle East. The site was initially launched in 2013 in the United Arab Emirates, then expanded to Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and Qatar, as well as Nigeria, South Africa, and India.\nThe origin of the name Pricena (pronounced \"Price-na\") comes from a contraction of the words \"Price\" and \"na\", the latter meaning \"our\" in Arabic, thus forming \"Our Price\". The site allows online shoppers to compare prices of more than one million products from over 200 stores across the Middle East.\n\nBelow are the major milestones for Pricena:\n\n\nIn November 2015, Pricena was recognized as the Online Startup of the Year for 2015 by Du Enterprise Agility Awards. The award’s criteria were based on a \"startup’s purpose to solve a specific and clear regional problem, its ability to attract a sizable audience and its potential to further grow in the region and beyond\".\n"}
{"id": "51882357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51882357", "title": "Return on modeling effort", "text": "Return on modeling effort\n\nReturn on modeling effort (ROME) is the benefit resulting from a (supplementary) effort to improve a model.\n\nIn engineering, modeling always serves a particular goal. For example, the lightning protection of aircraft can be modeled as an electrical circuit, in order to predict whether the protection will still work in 30 years, given the ageing of its electrical components. More and more effort can be put in making this model predict reality perfectly. However, this perfection comes at a price: researchers invest time and money in improving the model. As a Return on investment (ROI), the ROME is a metric for the use of further modeling. It may therefore serve as a 'stopping criterion'.\n\nTypically, researchers will pull towards continuing modeling, while management will pull towards stopping modeling. Being explicit about the cost and benefits of continued modeling may help to make informed decisions that are understood by both sides.\n\nROME is a , which can be evaluated wherever modeling is performed with a business goal. Examples include:\n"}
{"id": "8796235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8796235", "title": "Rota (papal signature)", "text": "Rota (papal signature)\n\nThe rota is one of the symbols used by the Pope to authenticate documents such as papal bulls. It is a cross inscribed in two concentric circles. Pope Leo IX was the first pope to use it.\n\nThe four inner quadrants contain: \"\"Petrus\"\", \"\"Paulus\"\", the Pope's name, and the Pope's ordinal number. The Pope's autograph or motto is sometimes inscribed between the concentric circles.\n\nA \"rota\" was also used by monarchs for the authentication of documents and diplomas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39752868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39752868", "title": "Round-Robin Letter (Spanish–American War)", "text": "Round-Robin Letter (Spanish–American War)\n\nThe Round-Robin Letter is the name of an incident in the United States Army that occurred between July 28 and August 3, 1898, during the Spanish–American War. After disease incapacitated thousands of Army soldiers in the wake of the Siege of Santiago, high-ranking officers of Fifth Army Corps drafted a round-robin letter demanding that the unit be sent back to the United States. Public release of the letter publicly embarrassed the U.S. government.\n\nBy July 28, 1898, malaria and yellow fever were pandemic among U.S. Army troops garrisoned near Santiago de Cuba on the island of Cuba. Fifth Corps, to which the Rough Riders was attached, had 4,270 men seriously ill (and dying), and corps commanders feared the unit could be wiped out if it stayed in Cuba. The McKinley administration, however, planned to keep the corps in Cuba until peace negotiations with Spain concluded. Public opinion was also against bringing home an army infected with yellow fever.\n\nSeveral senior officers met with Major General William R. Shafter, commander of Fifth Corps, and unanimously asked that the corps be withdrawn to the United States. It is unclear whether Shafter agreed and asked for this in writing, or whether Shafter disagreed and the corps commanders decided to put their request in writing. Colonel Theodore Roosevelt (commander of the First Volunteer US Cavalry Rough Riders), the only non-general officer of the group, was asked by the rest of the group to draft a round-robin letter outlining the problems with living conditions and disease to send to Army Headquarters in Washington, D.C. The letter would also be deliberately leaked to the press.\n\nAs a volunteer, Roosevelt's career would not be at stake in the way a regular army officer's would be by the communication. (Some sources say there is doubt that Roosevelt was the author, while others say that Roosevelt was only the author of the abridged letter.) Nine generals and Roosevelt signed the letter. An abridged version was given to Shafter to present to the United States Secretary of War. Shafter declined to do so, but did communicate with his superiors about what was happening.\n\nThe letter was deliberately leaked to Associated Press correspondents at corps headquarters, who cabled it to the U.S., where it was published nationwide. Publication of the round-robin letter turned public opinion against the War Department.\n\nThe McKinley administration was outraged by the leaking of the round-robin letter, but quickly realized that the public would blame the government. The administration acted swiftly to try to defuse the situation. On July 28, Secretary of War Russell A. Alger cabled Shafter and ordered Fifth Corps home to Camp Wikoff on Long Island, New York, for quarantine and mustering out. On August 3, the day before the letter appeared in the press, Alger ordered construction of barracks at Camp Wikoff to begin and for United States Navy ships to head to Cuba to retrieve Fifth Corps. The first units departed on August 7. Alger claimed that the round-robin letter did not accelerate administration plans to repatriate the corps. This appears disingenuous, however, as Alger had long asserted that naval ships were unavailable to bring the troops home.\n\n"}
{"id": "16337730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16337730", "title": "Sea witch (mythology)", "text": "Sea witch (mythology)\n\nSea witches are traditional folklore characters usually portrayed as women with a magical bond or power regarding the sea, the weather, or other aspects of seafaring life. Sea witches have been featured in European folklore for centuries. \nAlso referred to as 'Sea Hags', they are malevolent magical beings known for tempting mermaids to give up their immortality for the Love of a human. She collects their immortal essence for barter with powerful demons. She possesses a vast array of powerful magic, drawn from the brine of the sea.\n\nTraditionally, sea witches were witches who appeared among sailors or others involved in the seafaring trade. A sea witch may be presented as a magical or fairy creature such as a mermaid or selkie, or as an ordinary human who uses magic to influence the sea. Their powers ranged from control over the winds and weather or the ability to influence the catches of fisherman, to complete power over the sea, the tides, and the moon. Offending a sea witch by such means as refusing to pay her for her services, insulting her looks, or refusing to acknowledge her powers could end in disaster, as the sea witch might choose to destroy an entire ship. \n\nIn addition to their powers over water, sea witches were said to control the wind and weather. A common feature of many tales was a rope tied into three knots, which witches often sold to sailors to aid them on a voyage. Pulling the first knot could yield a gentle, southeasterly wind, while pulling two could generate a strong northerly wind, but the third knot would unleash a hurricane. In some versions of sea witch lore, the witch had the power to call up treasures lost in shipwrecks. In some stories a grieving widow begs the sea witch to bring to shore the body of a drowned husband, child, or sweetheart, so that it could be given a proper burial; in some versions this requires casting a coin or a ring into the sea as the witch's payment.\n\nA sea witch may refer to a Practitioner of a Pagan or Wicca group that often uses water when casting spells. (The term spell in this sense would be the equivalent of a prayer.) Within the Occult spectrum, the term Sea Witch and Water Witch may be used interchangeably, though a Water Witch is often applied to one that dowses for water. In 1997, Llewwllyn published a book written by Scott Cunningham named Earth Power, that gave information on natural magic(k)including water magic(k). The author refers to water magic(k) as a sub section of elemental magic(k) given water is an element found in Pagan and Wiccan practices. \nWhile Cunningham divides rain, fog and storm magic(k) into the subheading of Natural magic(k) in his book on pg 121, given they are associated to water, some may believe the acts pertain to water magic(k) and Sea Witches.\n\nAlong with their inclusion in older stories, sea witches have been included in contemporary stories as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31250860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31250860", "title": "Seated Woman, 1957", "text": "Seated Woman, 1957\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23159432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23159432", "title": "Shelburne Museum Vermont House", "text": "Shelburne Museum Vermont House\n\nThe Vermont House is an exhibit building at Shelburne Museum in Shelburne, Vermont, United States. It features rotating exhibits, which change yearly.\n\nAsa R. Slocumb built Vermont House in the 1790s shortly after moving to Shelburne, Vermont. His descendants continued to live there until 1929 when they abandoned the house. According to legend, Slocumb’s first home was a log cabin which probably resembled the Museum’s Settlers House. Over time he constructed the wood frame and clapboard exterior that would become Vermont House’s original façade around and over the log cabin. After completing the new exterior, he dismantled the cabin and carried the logs away.\n\nWhen the Shelburne Museum acquired Vermont House in 1950, the building’s clapboard siding and interior walls had deteriorated beyond repair. While preserving its basic structure, the Museum built a new façade with stone from a Shelburne Falls gristmill, randomly laying the stones using a technique known as scatter-stone, and reconstructed the interior with salvaged feather-edged boards from Vermont, New Hampshire, and Connecticut houses. Although the museum preserved the structure’s four original fireplaces, it changed the floor plan so that it would include a study and a larger kitchen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "166867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166867", "title": "Sprachbund", "text": "Sprachbund\n\nA sprachbund (, \"federation of languages\") – also known as a linguistic area, area of linguistic convergence, diffusion area or language crossroads – is a group of languages that have common features resulting from geographical proximity and language contact. They may be genetically unrelated, or only distantly related. Where genetic affiliations are unclear, the sprachbund characteristics might give a false appearance of relatedness. Areal features are common features of a group of languages in a sprachbund.\n\nIn a 1904 paper, Jan Baudouin de Courtenay emphasised the need to distinguish between language similarities arising from a genetic relationship (\"rodstvo\") and those arising from convergence due to language contact (\"srodstvo\").\nNikolai Trubetzkoy introduced the Russian term \"языковой союз\" (\"yazykovoy soyuz\"; \"language union\") in a 1923 article.\nIn a paper presented to the first International Congress of Linguists in 1928, he used a German calque of this term, \"Sprachbund\", defining it as a group of languages with similarities in syntax, morphological structure, cultural vocabulary and sound systems, but without systematic sound correspondences, shared basic morphology or shared basic vocabulary.\nLater workers, starting with Trubetzkoy's colleague Roman Jakobson,\nhave relaxed the requirement of similarities in all four of the areas stipulated by Trubetzkoy.\n\nIn contrast, a sprachraum (from German, \"language area\"), also known as a dialect continuum, describes a group of genetically related dialects spoken across a geographical area, differing in their genetic relationship only slightly between areas that are geographically close, and gradually decreasing in mutual intelligibility as distances increase.\n\nThe idea of areal convergence is commonly attributed to Jernej Kopitar's description in 1830 of Albanian, Bulgarian and Romanian as giving the impression of \"nur eine Sprachform ... mit dreierlei Sprachmaterie\", which has been rendered by Victor Friedman as \"one grammar with the three lexicons\".\nThe Balkan sprachbund comprises Albanian, Romanian, the South Slavic languages of the southern Balkans (Bulgarian, Macedonian and to a lesser degree Serbo-Croatian), Greek, Balkan Turkish, and Romani. All but one of these are Indo-European languages but from very divergent branches, and Turkish is a Turkic language. Yet they have exhibited several signs of grammatical convergence, such as avoidance of the infinitive, future tense formation, and others. The same features are not found in other languages that are otherwise closely related, such as the other Romance languages in relation to Romanian, and the other Slavic languages such as Polish in relation to Bulgaro-Macedonian.\n\nIn a classic 1956 paper titled \"India as a Linguistic Area\", Murray Emeneau laid the groundwork for the general acceptance of the concept of a sprachbund. In the paper, Emeneau observed that the subcontinent's Dravidian and Indo-Aryan languages shared a number of features that were not inherited from a common source, but were areal features, the result of diffusion during sustained contact.\n\nEmeneau specified the tools to establish that language and culture had fused for centuries on the Indian soil to produce an integrated mosaic of structural convergence of four distinct language families: Indo-Aryan, Dravidian, Munda and Tibeto-Burman. This concept provided scholarly substance for explaining the underlying Indian-ness of apparently divergent cultural and linguistic patterns. With his further contributions, this area has now become a major field of research in language contact and convergence.\n\nThe Mainland Southeast Asia linguistic area is one of the most dramatic of linguistic areas in terms of the surface similarity of the languages involved, to the extent that early linguists tended to group them all into a single family, although the modern consensus places them into numerous unrelated families. The area stretches from Thailand to China and is home to speakers of languages of the Sino-Tibetan, Hmong–Mien (or Miao–Yao), Tai-Kadai, Austronesian (represented by Chamic) and Mon–Khmer families.\n\nNeighbouring languages across these families, though presumed unrelated, often have similar features, which are believed to have spread by diffusion.\nA well-known example is the similar tone systems in Sinitic languages (Sino-Tibetan), Hmong–Mien, Tai languages (Kadai) and Vietnamese (Mon–Khmer). Most of these languages passed through an earlier stage with three tones on most syllables (but no tonal distinctions on checked syllables ending in a stop consonant), which was followed by a tone split where the distinction between voiced and voiceless consonants disappeared but in compensation the number of tones doubled.\nThese parallels led to confusion over the classification of these languages, until Haudricourt showed in 1954 that tone was not an invariant feature, by demonstrating that Vietnamese tones corresponded to certain final consonants in other languages of the Mon–Khmer family, and proposed that tone in the other languages had a similar origin.\n\nSimilarly, the unrelated Khmer (Mon–Khmer), Cham (Austronesian) and Lao (Kadai) languages have almost identical vowel systems.\nMany languages in the region are of the isolating (or analytic) type, with mostly monosyllabic morphemes and little use of inflection or affixes, though a number of Mon–Khmer languages have derivational morphology.\nShared syntactic features include classifiers, object–verb order and topic–comment structure, though in each case there are exceptions in branches of one or more families.\n\nSome linguists, such as Matthias Castrén, G. J. Ramstedt, Nicholas Poppe and Pentti Aalto supported the idea that the Mongolic, Turkic, and Tungusic families of Asia (and some small parts of Europe) are genetically related, in a controversial group they call Altaic. Koreanic and Japonic languages, which are also hypothetically related according to some scholars like William George Aston, Shōsaburō Kanazawa, Samuel Martin and Sergei Starostin, are sometimes included as part of the purported Altaic family. This latter hypothesis was supported by people including Roy Andrew Miller, John C. Street and Karl Heinrich Menges.\nGerard Clauson, Gerhard Doerfer, Juha Janhunen, Stefan Georg and others dispute or reject this. A common alternative explanation for similarities between said-Altaic languages such as vowel harmony and agglutination is that they are due to areal diffusion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "857511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=857511", "title": "Standings", "text": "Standings\n\nStandings or rankings are listings which compare sports teams or individuals, institutions, nations, companies, or other entities by ranking them in order of ability or achievement. A table or chart (such as a league table, a ladder or a leaderboard) may be employed to display such listings. A league table may list several related statistics, but they are generally sorted by the primary one that determines the rankings. Many industries and institutions may compete in league tables in order to help bring in new customers and clients. Those tables ranking sports teams are generally used to help determine who may advance to the playoffs or another tournament, who is promoted or relegated, or who gets a higher draft pick.\n\nIn sport, league tables group teams of similar abilities in a chart to show the current standing of the participants (teams or individuals) in a sports league or competition. These lists are generally published in newspapers and other media, as well as the official web sites of the sports leagues and competitions.\n\nAt the very least, a league table will show the names of the teams and their points total or winning percentage (depending on the sport), sorted in order of points or percentage. However, many league tables show further statistics; these may include:\n\nUsually, if a league is divided into conferences and divisions, the league table will also be. Often, a less specific table is also included. For example, National Hockey League tables will normally have a detailed table for each division, plus a table for each conference showing just the points totals.\n\nAs an example, below is the league table for the Northeast Division of the National Hockey League, as of March 31, 2004:\n\nIn the above table, an \"x\" placed before a team's name shows that the team has qualified for playoff position; other letters may be used to show that a team is guaranteed first place, has been eliminated from contention and so forth. From this table, we can see that Boston, Toronto, Ottawa and Montreal are all guaranteed playoff positions; the absence of a \"y\" shows that the division championship is still to play for. Meanwhile, because Buffalo has no symbol at all, they are not out of playoff contention, but have yet to clinch a playoff position. The following day, a new league table would appear in newspapers, updated based on the previous night's games. Of course, the above table would also be accompanied by those of the other divisions in the league.\n\nLeague tables are used to compare the academic achievements of different institutions. College and university rankings order institutions in higher education by combinations of factors. In addition to entire institutions, specific programs, departments, and schools are ranked. These rankings usually are conducted by magazines, newspapers, governments and academics. For example, league tables of British universities are published annually by \"The Guardian\", \"The Independent\", \"The Sunday Times\" and \"The Times\". The primary aim of these rankings is to inform potential applicants about British universities based on a range of criteria. Similarly, in countries like India, league tables are being developed and a popular magazine, Education World, published them based on data from \"TheLearningPoint.net\". \n\nIt is complained that the ranking of England's schools to rigid guidelines that fail to take into account wider social conditions actually makes failing schools even worse. This is because the most involved parents will then avoid such schools, leaving only the children of non-ambitious parents to attend.\n\nIn business, league tables list the leaders in investment banking activity, enabling people to quickly analyze financial data. Companies which collect this kind of data include Dealogic, Bloomberg L.P. and Thomson Reuters. The Thomson Reuters league tables list the top financiers in a particular industry. Dealogic's league tables are rankings of investment banks in terms of the dollar volume of deals that investment banks work on. Bloomberg's league tables provide an overview of top underwriters and legal advisers to securities deals, as well as fees netted from these transactions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "475898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=475898", "title": "The Almanac of American Politics", "text": "The Almanac of American Politics\n\nThe Almanac of American Politics is a reference work published biennially by Columbia Books & Information Services. It aims to provide a detailed look at the politics of the United States through an approach of profiling individual leaders and areas of the country. The first edition of the \"Almanac\" was published in 1972. The \"National Journal\" published biennial editions of the \"Almanac\" from 1984 through 2014. In 2015, Columbia Books & Information Services became the publisher.\n\nThe \"Almanac\" is broken down alphabetically by state, with each congressional district in each state profiled separately. The information provided by the \"Almanac\" includes:\n\nIn addition, an overview look at each state is given, including prospects for the upcoming presidential election and demographic trends.\n\nThe 2014 and 2012 editions of the \"Almanac\" are both 1,838 pages long. The \"Almanac\" was first published in 1971; subsequent editions have appeared biennially since 1973. The main editors were originally Michael Barone, now a writer at \"The Washington Examiner\"; Grant Ujifusa; and Douglas Matthews. Matthews stopped contributing after the 1980 edition. Barone and Chuck McCutcheon authored the 2012 edition, and were joined by Sean Trende and Josh Kraushaar for the 2014 edition. The co-authors of the 2016 edition are Barone, Richard E. Cohen, Charlie Cook, and James A. Barnes.\n\nRichard E. Cohen co-authored \"The Almanac of American Politics\" from 2001 through 2010, and again in 2016. He has written about Congress for \"National Journal\", \"Politico\" and \"Congressional Quarterly\". He is the author of \"Washington at Work: Back Rooms and Clean Air\", a case study of the 1990 Clean Air Act, and \"Rostenkowski: The Pursuit of Power and the End of the Old Politics\". He co-authored \"The Partisan Divide\" with former Reps. Tom Davis of Virginia and Martin Frost of Texas. In 1990, he won the Everett McKinley Dirksen Award for distinguished reporting on Congress.\n\nJames A. Barnes is a senior writer for Ballotpedia and consultant to CNN, projecting the outcomes of presidential, congressional and gubernatorial races for its election night and primary night coverage. He was formerly the chief political correspondent for \"National Journal\" magazine and founder of the National Journal Insiders Poll. He is co-author of \"Public Opinion among Political Elites: The Insiders Poll as a Research Toll\" in \"The Forum: A Journal of Applied Research in Contemporary Politics\" (2013), and a contributor to \"The State of American Politics\" (Rowman & Littlefield, 2001).\n\nCharlie Cook is editor and publisher of the \"Cook Political Report\" and a political analyst for \"National Journal\", where he writes a twice weekly column. In 2010, Cook was a co-recipient of the American Political Science Association's Carey McWilliams award to honor “a major journalistic contribution to our understanding of politics.” For the spring semester of 2013, Cook served as a Resident Fellow at the Institute of Politics at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.\n\nBarone is Senior Political Analyst for \"The Washington Examiner\" and a Resident Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. He is a contributor to Fox News Channel and co-author of \"The Almanac of American Politics 1972-2016\". He is also the author of \"Our Country: The Shaping of America from Roosevelt to Reagan\", \"The New Americans: How the Melting Pot Can Work Again\", and a number of other publications. Barone received the Bradley Prize from the Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation in 2010, the Barbara Olsen Award from \"The American Spectator\" in 2006 and the Carey McWilliams Award from the American Political Science Association in 1992.\n\nThe 2004, 2006, 2008, and 2010 editions were authored by Barone and Richard E. Cohen, the congressional correspondent for the \"National Journal\", and edited by Charles Mahtesian.\n"}
{"id": "58623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58623", "title": "The Culture", "text": "The Culture\n\nThe Culture is a fictional interstellar post-scarcity civilization or society created by the Scottish writer Iain M. Banks and features in a number of his space opera novels and works of short fiction, collectively called the Culture series.\n\nIn the series, the Culture is composed primarily of sentient beings of the pan-human variety, artificially intelligent sentient machines, and a small number of other sentient \"alien\" life forms. Machine intelligences range from human-equivalent drones to hyper-intelligent Minds. The Culture's economy is maintained automatically by its non-sentient machines, with high-level work entrusted to the Minds' subroutines, which allows its humanoid and drone citizens to indulge their passions, romances, hobbies, or other activities, without servitude. Many of the series' protagonists are humanoids who choose to work for the Culture's elite diplomatic or espionage organisations, and interact with other civilisations whose citizens hold wildly different ideologies, morals, and technologies.\n\nThe Culture has a grasp of technology which is advanced relative to most of the other civilisations which share the galaxy. Most of the Culture's citizens do not live on planets but in or on artificial habitats, such as huge orbitals, or on ships, the largest of which are home to billions of individuals. Biologically, the Culture's citizens have been genetically enhanced to live for centuries, and have modified mental control over their physiology, including the ability to introduce a variety of psychoactive drugs into their systems, change biological sex, or switch off pain at will. Culture technology is able to transform individuals into vastly different body forms but, for unclear reasons, the Culture standard form remains fairly close to human.\n\nA central theme of the series is the ethical struggles which face the Culture when interacting with other societies - some of which brutalise their own members, pose threats to other civilisations, or threaten the Culture itself, the reactions to which conflict with the Culture's philosophy of peace and individual freedom. The Culture tends to make major decisions based on the consensus formed by its Minds and, if appropriate, its citizens. In one instance, a direct democratic vote of trillions – the entire population – decided The Culture would go to war with a rival civilisation. Those who objected to the Culture's subsequent militarisation broke off from the meta-civilisation, forming their own separate civilisation; a hallmark of the Culture is its ambiguity. In contrast to the many interstellar societies and empires which share its fictional universe, the Culture is difficult to define, geographically or sociologically, and \"fades out at the edges\".\n\nThe Culture is characterized as being a post-scarcity society, having overcome most physical constraints on life and being an egalitarian, stable society without the use of any form of force or compulsion, except where necessary to protect others.\n\nMinds, extremely powerful artificial intelligences, have an important role. They administer this abundance for the benefit of all. As one commentator has said:\n\nThe novels of the Culture cycle, therefore, mostly deal with people at the fringes of the Culture: diplomats, spies, or mercenaries; those who interact with other civilizations, and who do the Culture's dirty work in moving those societies closer to the Culture ideal, sometimes by force.\n\nIn this fictional universe, the Culture exists concurrently with human society on Earth. The time frame for the published Culture stories is from 1267 to roughly 2970, with Earth being contacted around 2100, though the Culture had covertly visited the planet in the 1970s in \"The State of the Art\".\n\nThe Culture itself is described as having been created when several humanoid species and machine sentiences reached a certain social level, and took not only their physical, but also their civilizational evolution into their own hands. In \"The Player of Games\", the Culture is described as having existed as a space-faring society for eleven thousand years. In \"The Hydrogen Sonata\", one of these founding civilisations was named as the Buhdren Federality.\n\nThe Culture is a symbiotic society of artificial intelligences (AIs) (Minds and drones), humanoids and other alien species who all share equal status. All essential work is performed (as far as possible) by non-sentient devices, freeing sentients to do only things that they enjoy (administrative work requiring sentience is undertaken by the AIs using a bare fraction of their mental power, or by people who take on the work out of free choice). As such, the Culture is a post-scarcity society, where technological advances ensure that no one lacks any material goods or services. As a consequence, the Culture has no need of economic constructs such as money (as is apparent when it deals with civilizations in which money is still important). The Culture rejects all forms of economics based on anything other than voluntary activity. \"Money implies poverty\" is a common saying in the Culture.\n\nMarain is the Culture's shared constructed language. The Culture believes the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis that language influences thought, and Marain was designed by early Minds to exploit this effect, while also \"appealing to poets, pedants, engineers and programmers\". Designed to be represented either in binary or symbol-written form, Marain is also regarded as an aesthetically pleasing language by the Culture. The symbols of the Marain alphabet can be displayed in three-by-three grids of binary (yes/no, black/white) dots and thus correspond to nine-bit wide binary numbers.\n\nRelated comments are made by the narrator in \"The Player of Games\" regarding gender-specific pronouns, which Marain speakers do not use in typical conversation unless specifying one's gender is necessary, and by general reflection on the fact that Marain places much less structural emphasis on (or even lacks) concepts like possession and ownership, dominance and submission, and especially aggression. Many of these concepts would in fact be somewhat theoretical to the average Culture citizen. Indeed, the presence of these concepts in other civilizations signify the brutality and hierarchy associated with forms of empire that the Culture strives to avoid.\n\nMarain itself is also open to encryption and dialect-specific implementations for different parts of the Culture. M1 is basic Nonary Marain, the three-by-three grid. All Culture citizens can communicate in this variant. Other variants include M8 through M16, which are encrypted by various degrees, and are typically used by the Contact Section. Higher level encryptions exist, the highest of these being M32. M32 and lower level encrypted signals are the province of Special Circumstances (SC). Use of M32 is reserved for extremely secret and reserved information and communication within Special Circumstances. That said, M32 has an air of notoriety in the Culture, and in the thoughts of most may best be articulated as \"the Unbreakable, Inviolable, Holy of Holies Special Circumstances M32\" as described by prospective SC agent Ulver Seich. Ships and Minds also have a slightly distasteful view of SC procedure associated with M32, one Ship Mind going so far as to object to the standard SC attitude of \"Full scale, stark raving M32 don't-talk-about-this-or-we'll-pull-your-plugs-out-baby paranoia\" on the use of the encryption (\"Excession\").\n\nThere are no laws as such in the Culture. Social norms are enforced by convention (personal reputation, \"good manners\", and by, as described in \"The Player of Games\", possible ostracism and involuntary supervision for more serious crimes). Minds generally refrain from using their all-seeing capabilities to influence people's reputations, though they are not necessarily themselves above judging people based on such observations, as described in \"Excession\". Minds also judge each other, with one of the more relevant criteria being the quality of their treatment of sentients in their care. Hub Minds for example are generally nominated from well-regarded GSV (the largest class of ships) Minds, and then upgraded to care for the billions living on the artificial habitats.\n\nThe only serious prohibitions that seem to exist are against harming sentient beings, or forcing them into undertaking any act (another concept that seems unnatural to and is, in fact, almost unheard of by almost all Culture citizens). As mentioned in \"The Player of Games\", the Culture does have the occasional \"crime of passion\" (as described by an Azadian) and the punishment was to be \"slap-droned\", or to have a drone assigned to follow the offender and \"make sure [they] don't do it again\".\n\nWhile the enforcement in theory could lead to a Big Brother-style surveillance society, in practice social convention among the Minds prohibits them from watching, or interfering in, citizens' lives unless requested, or unless they perceive severe risk. The practice of reading a sentient's mind without permission (something the Culture is technologically easily capable of) is also strictly taboo. The whole plot of \"Look to Windward\" relies on a Hub Mind not reading an agent's mind (with certain precautions in case this rule gets violated). Minds that do so anyway are considered deviant and shunned by other Minds (see GCU \"Grey Area\"). At one point it is said that if the Culture actually had written laws, the sanctity of one's own thoughts against the intrusion of others would be the first on the books (\"Look To Windward\").\n\nThis gives some measure of privacy and protection; though the very nature of Culture society would, strictly speaking, make keeping secrets irrelevant: most of them would be considered neither shameful nor criminal. It does allow the Minds in particular to scheme amongst themselves in a very efficient manner, and occasionally withhold information.\n\nThe Culture has no flag, symbol or logo. According to \"Consider Phlebas\", people can recognize items made by the Culture implicitly, by the way they are simple, efficient and aesthetic. The main outright symbol of the Culture, the one by which it is most explicitly and proudly recognized, is not a visual symbol, but its language, Marain, which is used far beyond the Culture itself. It is often employed in the galaxy as a de facto lingua franca among people who don't share a language. Even the main character of \"Consider Phlebas\", an enemy of the Culture, ready to die to help in its downfall, is fluent in Marain and uses it with other non-Culture characters out of sheer convenience.\nIt would have helped if the Culture had used some sort of emblem or logo; but, pointlessly unhelpful and unrealistic to the last, the Culture refused to place its trust in symbols. It maintained that it was what it was and had no need for such outward representation. The Culture was every single individual human and machine in it, not one thing. Just as it could not imprison itself with laws, impoverish itself with money or misguide itself with leaders, so it would not misrepresent itself with signs.\n\nThe Culture is a posthuman society, which originally arose when seven or eight roughly humanoid space-faring species coalesced into a quasi-collective (a group-civilization) ultimately consisting of approximately thirty trillion (short scale) sentient (more properly, sapient) beings (this includes artificial intelligences). In Banks's universe, a good part (but by no means an overwhelming percentage) of all sentient species is of the \"pan-human\" type, as noted in \"Matter\".\n\nAlthough the Culture was originated by humanoid species, subsequent interactions with other civilizations have introduced many non-humanoid species into the Culture (including some former enemy civilizations), though the majority of the biological Culture is still pan-human. Little uniformity exists in the Culture, and its citizens are such by choice, free to change physical form and even species (though some stranger biological conversions are irreversible, and conversion from biological to artificial sentience is considered to be what is known as an Unusual Life Choice). All members are also free to join, leave, and rejoin, or indeed declare themselves to be, say, 80% Culture.\n\nWithin the novels, opponents of the Culture have argued that the role of humans in the Culture is nothing more than that of pets, or parasites on Culture Minds, and that they can have nothing genuinely useful to contribute to a society where science is close to omniscient about the physical universe, where every ailment has been cured, and where every thought can be read. Many of the Culture novels in fact contain characters (from within or without the Culture) wondering how far-reaching the Minds' dominance of the Culture is, and how much of the democratic process within it might in fact be a sham: subtly but very powerfully influenced by the Minds in much the same ways Contact and Special Circumstances influence other societies. Also, except for some mentions about a vote over the Idiran-Culture War, and the existence of a very small number of \"Referrers\" (humans of especially acute reasoning), few biological entities are ever described as being involved in any high-level decisions.\n\nOn the other hand, the Culture can be seen as fundamentally hedonistic (one of the main objectives for any being, including Minds, is to have fun rather than to be \"useful\"). Also, Minds are constructed, by convention, to care for and value human beings. While a General Contact Unit (GCU) does not strictly need a crew (and could construct artificial avatars when it did), a real human crew adds richness to its existence, and offers distraction during otherwise dull periods. In \"Consider Phlebas\" it is noted that Minds still find humans fascinating, especially their odd ability to sometimes achieve similarly advanced reasoning as their much more complex machine brains.\n\nTo a large degree, the freedoms enjoyed by humans in the Culture are only available because Minds choose to provide them. The freedoms include the ability to leave the Culture when desired, often forming new associated but separate societies with Culture ships and Minds, most notably the Zetetic Elench and the ultra-pacifist and non-interventionist Peace Faction.\n\nTechniques in genetics have advanced in the Culture to the point where bodies can be freed from built-in limitations. Citizens of the Culture refer to a normal human as \"human-basic\" and the vast majority opt for significant enhancements: severed limbs grow back, sexual physiology can be voluntarily changed from male to female and back (though the process takes time), sexual stimulation and endurance are strongly heightened in both sexes (something that is often subject of envious debate among other species), pain can be switched off, toxins can be bypassed away from the digestive system, autonomic functions such as heart rate can be switched to conscious control, reflexes like blinking can be switched off, and bones and muscles adapt quickly to changes in gravity without the need to exercise. The degree of enhancement found in Culture individuals varies to taste, with certain of the more exotic enhancements limited to Special Circumstances personnel (for example, weapons systems embedded in various parts of the body).\n\nMost Culture individuals opt to have drug glands that allow for hormonal levels and other chemical secretions to be consciously monitored, released and controlled. These allow owners to secrete on command any of a wide selection of synthetic drugs, from the merely relaxing to the mind-altering: \"Snap\" is described in \"Use of Weapons\" and \"The Player of Games\" as \"The Culture's favourite breakfast drug\". \"Sharp Blue\" is described as a utility drug, as opposed to a sensory enhancer or a sexual stimulant, that helps in problem solving. \"Quicken\", mentioned in \"Excession\", speeds up the user's neural processes so that time seems to slow down, allowing them to think and have mental conversation (for example with artificial intelligences) in far less time than it appears to take to the outside observer. \"Sperk\", as described in \"Matter\", is a mood- and energy-enhancing drug, while other such self-produced drugs include \"Calm\", \"Gain\", \"Charge\", \"Recall\", \"Diffuse\", \"Somnabsolute\", \"Softnow\", \"Focal\", \"Edge\", \"Drill\", \"Gung\", \"Winnow\" and \"Crystal Fugue State\". The glanded substances have no permanent side-effects and are non-habit-forming.\n\nFor all their genetic improvements, the Culture is by no means eugenically uniform. Human members in the Culture setting vary in size, colour and shape as in reality, and with possibly even further natural differences: in the novella \"The State of the Art\", it is mentioned that a character \"looks like a Yeti\", and that there is variance among the Culture in minor details such as the number of toes or of joints on each finger. It is mentioned in \"Excession\" that:\n\nSome Culture citizens opt to leave the constraints of a human or even humanoid body altogether, opting to take on the appearance of one of the myriad other galactic sentients (perhaps in order to live with them) or even non-sentient objects as commented upon in \"Matter\" (though this process can be irreversible if the desired form is too removed from the structure of the human brain). Certain eccentrics have chosen to become drones or even Minds themselves, though this is considered rude and possibly even insulting by most humans and AIs alike.\n\nWhile the Culture is generally pan-humanoid (and tends to call itself \"human\"), various other species and individuals of other species have become part of the Culture.\n\nAs all Culture citizens are of perfect genetic health, the very rare cases of a Culture citizen showing any physical deformity are almost certain to be a sort of fashion statement of somewhat dubious taste.\n\nAlmost all Culture citizens are very sociable, of great intellectual capability and learning, and possess very well-balanced psyches. Their biological make-up and their growing up in an enlightened society make neuroses and lesser emotions like greed or (strong) jealousy practically unknown, and produce persons that, in any lesser society, appear very self-composed and charismatic. Character traits like strong shyness, while very rare, are not fully unknown, as shown in \"Excession\". As described there and in \"Player of Games\", a Culture citizen who becomes dysfunctional enough to pose a serious nuisance or threat to others would be offered (voluntary) psychological adjustment therapy and might potentially find himself under constant (non-voluntary) oversight by representatives of the local Mind. In extreme cases, as described in \"Use of Weapons\" and \"Surface Detail\", dangerous individuals have been known to be assigned a \"slap-drone\", a robotic follower who ensures that the person in question doesn't continue to endanger the safety of others.\n\nAs well as humans and other biological species, sentient artificial intelligences are also members of the Culture. These can be broadly categorised into drones and Minds. Also, by custom, as described in \"Excession\", any artifact (be it a tool or vessel) above a certain capability level has to be given sentience.\n\nDrones are roughly comparable in intelligence and social status to that of the Culture's biological members. Their intelligence is measured against that of an average biological member of the Culture; a so-called \"1.0 value\" drone would be considered the mental equal of a biological citizen, whereas lesser drones such as the menial service units of Orbitals are merely proto-sentient (capable of limited reaction to unprogrammed events, but possessing no consciousness, and thus not considered citizens; these take care of much of the menial work in the Culture). The sentience of advanced drones has various levels of redundancy, from systems similar to that of Minds (though much reduced in capability) down to electronic, to mechanical and finally biochemical back-up brains.\n\nAlthough drones are artificial, the parameters that prescribe their minds are not rigidly constrained, and sentient drones are full individuals, with their own personalities, opinions and quirks. Like biological citizens, Culture drones generally have lengthy names. They also have a form of sexual intercourse for pleasure, called being \"in thrall\", though this is an intellect-only interfacing with another sympathetic drone.\n\nWhile civilian drones do generally match humans in intelligence, drones built especially as Contact or Special Circumstances agents are often several times more intelligent, and imbued with extremely powerful senses, powers and armaments (usually forcefield and effector-based, though occasionally more destructive weaponry such as lasers or, exceptionally, \"knife-missiles\" are referred to) all powered by antimatter reactors. Despite being purpose built, these drones are still allowed individual personalities and given a choice in lifestyle. Indeed, some are eventually deemed psychologically unsuitable as agents (for example as Mawhrin-Skel notes about itself in \"The Player of Games\") and must choose (or choose to choose) either mental reprofiling or demilitarisation and discharge from Special Circumstances.\n\nPhysically, drones are floating units of various sizes and shapes, usually with no visible moving parts. Drones get around the limitations of this inanimation with the ability to project \"fields\": both those capable of physical force, which allow them to manipulate objects, as well as visible, coloured fields called \"auras\", which are used to enable the drone to express emotion. There is a complex drone code based on aura colours and patterns (which is fully understood by biological Culture citizens as well). Drones have full control of their auras and can display emotions they're not feeling or can switch their aura off. The drone, Jase, in \"Consider Phlebas\", is described as being constructed before the use of auras, and refuses to be retrofitted with them, preferring to remain inscrutable.\n\nIn size drones vary substantially: the oldest still alive (eight or nine thousand years old) tend to be around the size of humans, whereas later technology allows drones to be small enough to lie in a human's cupped palm; modern drones may be any size between these extremes according to fashion and personal preference. Some drones are also designed as utility equipment with its own sentience, such as the gelfield protective suit described in \"Excession\".\n\nBy contrast to drones, Minds are orders of magnitude more powerful and intelligent than the Culture's other biological and artificial citizens. Typically they inhabit and act as the controllers of large-scale Culture hardware such as ships or space-based habitats. Unsurprisingly, given their duties, Minds are tremendously powerful: capable of running all of the functions of a ship or habitat, while holding potentially billions of simultaneous conversations with the citizens that live aboard them. To allow them to perform at such a high degree, they exist partially in hyperspace to get around hindrances to computing power such as the speed of light.\n\nDuring the time of \"Consider Phlebas\", Minds were estimated to number in the several hundreds of thousands.\n\nShip-based Culture Minds choose the names of the craft they inhabit, and their choices are often whimsical and humorous. Ships are identified by a three-letter prefix denoting class (such as GSV or GCU), followed by their personal name, such as:\n\n\nPresumably to avoid the cumbersome repetition of such long names, the inhabitants of ships and habitats tend to refer to the overseeing local Mind simply as the \"Ship\" or the \"Hub\", for example.\n\nCulture military craft are often designed to be ugly and graceless, lacking the Culture's usual aesthetic style, and it has been theorised that this is because Culture citizens wish to distance themselves from the military aspects of their society. Their ship classes, reflecting the Culture's profound distaste of war and resultant refusal to disguise their weapons with euphemisms, are always unpleasant (such as the Gangster, Torturer, Psychopath, Thug and Abominator classes). Their self-given names are often tinged with menace (but still tend to be whimsical), such as:\n\nSince the Mind concerned chooses its own name this may sometimes even indicate a degree of self-hatred over its purpose for existence. Warship Minds are somewhat out of the normal Culture's behaviour range, designed to be more aggressive and less ambivalent about violence than the usual Culture citizen. Some such Minds choose to \"sleep\" in between periods of conflict, due to their boredom and uneasiness with typical existence in the Culture. It is stated in \"Excession\" that the Minds of warships are backed up without fail, giving them a form of immortality which is considered crucial for them to be able to take the risk of going into combat; for other ships, backing up their Minds is typical but optional, and a few minds do choose to live with the possibility of real death (or even to commit suicide, typically by switching off their power cores, although a more painful death can be achieved by channelling energy from their engines into the \"brain\" of the ship).\n\nMinds generally view their crew/inhabitants as \"interesting companions\" and interact with them through remotely controlled devices, often drones or humanoid \"avatars\". Examples of more diverse interactive systems are animals such as small fish suspended in their own anti-gravity sphere of water.\n\nAs a sidenote, the fact that artificial intelligences are accepted as citizens of the Culture was a major factor in the Idiran-Culture War, which is explored in \"Consider Phlebas\". This citizenship of AIs (which the Culture promotes in other societies it encounters) has other more general consequences. For instance, despite a high degree of automation within Culture technology, menial tasks are often undertaken by non-sentient technology, to avoid the exploitation of sentient lifeforms (though Minds often work at administrative tasks using bare fractions of their enormous mental capabilities).\n\nSome humanoid or drone Culture citizens have long names, often with seven or more words. Some of these words specify the citizen's origin (place of birth or manufacture), some an occupation, and some may denote specific philosophical or political alignments (chosen later in life by the citizen themselves), or make other similarly personal statements. An example would be Diziet Sma, whose full name is Rasd-Coduresa Diziet Embless Sma da' Marenhide:\nIain Banks gave his own Culture name as \"Sun-Earther Iain El-Bonko Banks of North Queensferry\".\n\nThe Culture has a relatively relaxed attitude towards death. Genetic manipulation and the continual benevolent surveillance of the Minds make natural or accidental death almost unknown. Advanced technology allows citizens to make backup copies of their personalities, allowing them to be resurrected in case of death. The form of that resurrection can be specified by the citizen, with personalities returning either in the same biological form, in an artificial form (see below), or even just within virtual reality. Some citizens choose to go into \"storage\" (a form of suspended animation) for long periods of time, out of boredom or curiosity about the future.\n\nAttitudes individual citizens have towards death are varied (and have varied throughout the Culture's history). While many, if not most, citizens make some use of backup technology, many others do not, preferring instead to risk death without the possibility of recovery (for example when engaging in extreme sports). These citizens are sometimes called \"disposables\", and are described in \"Look to Windward\". Taking into account such accidents, voluntary euthanasia for emotional reasons, or choices like sublimation, the average lifespan of humans is described in \"Excession\" as being around 350 to 400 years. Some citizens choose to forgo death altogether, although this is rarely done and is viewed as an eccentricity. Other options instead of death include conversion of an individual's consciousness into an AI, joining of a group mind (which can include biological and non-biological consciousnesses), or subliming (usually in association with a group mind).\n\nConcerning the lifespan of drones and Minds, given the durability of Culture technology and the options of mindstate backups, it is reasonable to assume that they live as long as they choose. Even Minds, with their utmost complexity, are known to be backed up (and reactivated if they for example die in a risky mission, see \"GSV Lasting Damage\"). It is noted that even Minds themselves do not necessarily live forever either, often choosing to eventually sublime or even killing themselves (as does the double-Mind \"GSV Lasting Damage\" due to its choices in the Culture-Idiran war).\n\nThe Culture (and other societies) have developed powerful anti-gravity abilities, closely related to their ability to manipulate forces themselves.\n\nIn this ability they can create action-at-a-distance – including forces capable of pushing, pulling, cutting, and even fine manipulation, and forcefields for protection, visual display or plain destructive ability. Such applications still retain restrictions on range and power: while forcefields of many cubic kilometres are possible (and in fact, orbitals are held together by forcefields), even in the chronologically later novels, such as \"Look to Windward\", spaceships are still used for long-distance travel and drones for many remote activities.\n\nWith the control of a Mind, fields can be manipulated over vast distances. In \"Use of Weapons\", a Culture warship uses its electromagnetic effectors to hack into a computer light years away.\n\nArtificial intelligences (and to a lesser degree, the non-sentient computers omnipresent in all material goods), form the backbone of the technological advances of the Culture. Not only are they the most advanced scientists and designers the Culture has, their lesser functions also oversee the vast (but usually hidden) production and maintenance capabilities of the society.\n\nThe Culture has achieved artificial intelligences where each Mind has thought processing capabilities many orders of magnitude beyond that of human beings, and data storage drives which, if written out on paper and stored in filing cabinets, would cover thousands of planets skyscraper high (as described by one Mind in \"Consider Phlebas\"). Yet it has managed to condense these entities to a volume of several dozen cubic metres (though much of the contents and the operating structure are continually in hyperspace). Minds also demonstrate reaction times and multitasking abilities orders of magnitude greater than any sentient being; armed engagements between Culture and equivalent technological civilizations sometimes occur in timeframes as short as microseconds, and standard Orbital Minds are capable of running all of the vital systems on the Orbital while simultaneously conversing with millions of the inhabitants and observing phenomena in the surrounding regions of space.\n\nAt the same time, it has achieved drone sentiences and capability of Special Circumstance proportions in forms that could fit easily within a human hand, and built extremely powerful (though not sentient) computers capable of fitting into tiny insect-like drones. Some utilitarian devices (such as spacesuits) are also provided with artificial sentience. These specific types of drones, like all other Culture AI, would also be considered citizens - though as described in the short story \"Descendant\", they may spend most of the time when their \"body\" is not in use in a form of remote-linked existence outside of it, or in a form of AI-level virtual reality.\n\nA major feature of its post-scarcity society, the Culture is obviously able to gather, manipulate, transfer and store vast amounts of energy. While not explained in detail in the novels, this involves antimatter and \"grid energy\", a postulated energy field dividing the universe from a mirroring anti-matter universe, and providing practically limitless energy. Transmission or storage of such energy is not explained, though these capabilities must be powerful as well, with tiny drones capable of very powerful manipulatory fields and forces.\n\nThe Culture also uses various forms of energy manipulation as weapons, with \"gridfire\", a method of creating a dimensional rift to the energy grid, releasing astronomical amounts of energy into a region of non-hyperspace, being described as a sort of ultimate weapon more destructive than condensed antimatter bombardment. One character in \"Consider Phlebas\" refers to gridfire as \"the weaponry of the end of the universe\". Gridfire resembles the zero-point energy used within many popular science fiction stories.\n\nThe Culture (at least by the time of \"The Player of Games\") has developed a form of teleportation capable of transporting both living and unliving matter instantaneously via wormholes. This technology has not rendered spacecraft obsolete – in \"Excession\" a barely apple-sized drone was displaced no further than a light-second at maximum range (mass being a limiting factor determining range), a tiny distance in galactic terms. The process also still has a very small chance of failing and killing living beings, but the chance is described as being so small (1 in 61 million) that it normally only becomes an issue when transporting a large number of people and is only regularly brought up due to the Culture's safety conscious nature.\n\nDisplacement is an integral part of Culture technology, being widely used for a range of applications from peaceful to belligerent. Displacing warheads into or around targets is one of the main forms of attack in space warfare in the Culture universe. \"The Player of Games\" mentions that drones can be displaced to catch a person falling from a cliff before they impact the ground, as well.\n\nThrough \"neural lace\", a form of brain–computer interface that is implanted into the brains of young people and grows with them, the Culture has the capability to read and store the full sentience of any being, biological or artificial, and thus reactivate a stored being after its death. The neural lace also allows wireless communication with the Minds and databases. This also necessitates the capability to read thoughts, but as described in \"Look to Windward\", doing this without permission is considered taboo.\n\nStarships are living spaces, vehicles and ambassadors of the Culture. A proper Culture starship (as defined by hyperspace capability and the presence of a Mind to inhabit it) may range from several hundreds of metres to hundreds of kilometres. The latter may be inhabited by billions of beings and are artificial worlds in their own right, including whole ecosystems, and are considered to be self-contained representations of all aspects of Culture life and capability.\n\nThe Culture (and most other space-faring species in its universe) use a form of Hyperspace-drive to achieve faster-than-light speeds. Banks has evolved a (self-confessedly) technobabble system of theoretical physics to describe the ships' acceleration and travel, using such concepts as \"infraspace\" and \"ultraspace\" and an \"energy grid\" between universes (from which the warp engines \"push off\" to achieve momentum). An \"induced singularity\" is used to access infra or ultra space from real space; once there, \"engine fields\" reach down to the Grid and gain power and traction from it as they travel at high speeds.\n\nThese hyperspace engines do not use reaction mass and hence do not need to be mounted on the surface of the ship. They are described as being very dense exotic matter, which only reveals its complexity under a powerful microscope. Acceleration and maximum speed depend on the ratio of the mass of the ship to its engine mass. As with any other matter aboard, ships can gradually manufacture extra engine volume or break it down as needed. In \"Excession\" one of the largest ships of the Culture redesigns itself to be mostly engine and reaches a speed of 233,000 times lightspeed. Within the range of the Culture's influence in the galaxy, most ships would still take years of travelling to reach the more remote spots.\n\nOther than the engines used by larger Culture ships, there are a number of other propulsion methods such as gravitic drive at sublight speeds, with antimatter, fusion and other reaction engines occasionally seen with less advanced civilizations, or on Culture hobby craft.\n\nWarp engines can be very small, with Culture drones barely larger than fist-size described as being thus equipped. There is also at least one (apparently non-sentient) species (the \"Chuy-Hirtsi\" animal), that possesses the innate capability of warp travel. In \"Consider Phlebas\", it is being used as a military transport by the Idirans, but no further details are given.\n\nThe Culture has highly advanced nanotechnology, though descriptions of such technology in the books is limited. Many of the described uses are by or for Special Circumstances, but there are no indications that the use of nanotechnology is limited in any way. (In a passage in one of the books, there is a brief reference to the question of sentience when comparing the human brain or a \"pico-level substrate\".)\n\nOne of the primary clandestine uses of nanotechnology is information gathering. The Culture likes to be in the know, and as described in \"Matter\" \"they tend to know everything.\" Aside from its vast network of sympathetic allies and wandering Culture citizens one of the primary ways that the Culture keeps track of important events is by the use of practically invisible nanobots capable of recording and transmitting their observations. This technique is described as being especially useful to track potentially dangerous people (such as ex-Special Circumstance agents). Via such nanotechnology, it is potentially possible for the Culture (or similarly advanced societies) to see everything happening on a given planet, orbital or any other habitat. The usage of such devices is limited by various treaties and agreements among the Involved.\n\nIn addition, EDust assassins are potent Culture terror weapons, composed entirely of nano machines called EDust, or \"Everything Dust.\" They are capable of taking almost any shape or form, including swarms of insects or entire humans or aliens, and possess powerful weaponry capable of levelling entire buildings.\n\nMuch of the Culture's population lives on orbitals, vast artificial worlds that can accommodate billions of people. Others travel the galaxy in huge space ships such as General Systems Vehicles (GSVs) that can accommodate hundreds of millions of people. Almost no Culture citizens are described as living on planets, except when visiting other civilizations. The reason for this is partly because the Culture believes in containing its own expansion to self-constructed habitats, instead of colonising or conquering new planets. With the resources of the universe allowing permanent expansion (at least assuming non-exponential growth), this frees them from having to compete for living space.\n\nThe Culture, and other civilizations in Banks' universe, are described as living in these various, often constructed habitats:\n\nThese are vast, brown dwarf-sized bubbles of atmosphere enclosed by force fields, and (presumably) set up by an ancient advanced race at least one and a half billion years ago. There is only minimal gravity within an airsphere. They are illuminated by moon-sized orbiting planetoids that emit enormous light beams.\n\nCitizens of the Culture live there only very occasionally as guests, usually to study the complex ecosystem of the airspheres and the dominant life-forms: the \"dirigible behemothaurs\" and \"gigalithine lenticular entities\", which may be described as inscrutable, ancient intelligences looking similar to a cross between gigantic blimps and whales. The airspheres slowly migrate around the galaxy, taking anywhere from 50 to 100 million years to complete one circuit. In the novels no one knows who created the airspheres or why, but it is presumed that whoever did has long since sublimed but may maintain some obscure link with the behemothaurs and lenticular entities. Guests in the airspheres are not allowed to use any force-field technology, though no reason has been offered for this prohibition.\n\nThe airspheres resemble in some respects the orbit-sized ring of breathable atmosphere created by Larry Niven in \"The Integral Trees\", but spherical not toroidal, require a force field to retain their integrity, and arose by artificial rather than natural processes.\n\nOne of the main types of habitats of the Culture, an orbital is a ring structure orbiting a star as would a planet. Unlike a Ringworld or a Dyson Sphere, an orbital does not enclose the star (being much too small). Like a ringworld, the orbital rotates to provide an analog of gravity on the inner surface. A Culture orbital rotates about once every 24 hours and has gravity-like effect about the same as the gravity of Earth, making the diameter of the ring about , and ensuring that the inhabitants experience night and day. Orbitals feature prominently in many Culture stories.\n\nThough many other civilizations in the Culture books live on planets, the Culture as it currently exists has little direct connection to planet life. Banks has written that he presumes this to be an inherent consequence of space colonization, and a foundation of the liberal nature of the Culture. A small number of home worlds of the founding member species of the Culture are mentioned in passing, and a few hundred human-habitable worlds were colonised (some being terraformed) before the Culture chose to turn towards artificial habitats, preferring to keep the planets it encounters wild. Since then, terraforming has become looked down on by the Culture as inelegant, ecologically problematic and possibly even immoral. Less than one percent of the population of the Culture lives on planets, and many find the very concept a bit bizarre.\n\nThis respect is not absolute though; in \"Consider Phlebas\", some Minds suggest testing a new technology on a \"spare planet\" (knowing that it could be destroyed in an antimatter explosion if unsuccessful). It should be assumed from their normal ethics, that this planet would have been lifeless to start with. It is also quite possible, even probable, that the suggestion was not made in complete seriousness.\n\nRingworld-like megastructures exist in the Culture universe but are referred to simply as \"Rings\" with a capital \"R\". These habitats are not described in detail but one is recorded as having been destroyed (along with 3 Spheres) in the Idiran-Culture war. In \"Matter\", the Morthanveld people possesses ringworldlike structures made of innumerable various-sized tubes. Those structures encircle a star just like Niven's Ringworld and are about the same size.\n\nThese are asteroids and other non-planetary bodies hollowed out for habitation and usually spun for centrifugal artificial gravity. Rocks (with the exception of those used for secretive purposes) are described as having faster-than-light space drives, and thus can be considered a special form of spaceship. Like Orbitals, they are usually administered by one or more Minds.\n\nRocks do not play a large part in most of the Culture stories, though their use as storage for mothballed military ships (\"Pittance\") and habitats (\"Phage Rock\", one of the founding communities of the Culture) are both key plot points in \"Excession\".\n\nShellworlds are introduced in \"Matter\", and consist of multilayered levels of concentric spheres in four dimensions held up by innumerable titanic interior towers. Their extra dimensional characteristics render some products of Culture technology too dangerous to use and yet others ineffective, notably access to hyperspace. About 4000 were built millions of years ago as vast machines intended to cast a forcefield around the whole of the galaxy for unknown purposes; less than half of those remain at the time of \"Matter\", many having been destroyed by a departed species known as the Iln. The species that developed this technology, known as the Veil or the Involucra, are now lost, and many of the remaining shellworlds have become inhabited, often by many different species throughout their varying levels. Many still hold deadly secret defence mechanisms, often leading to great danger for their new inhabitants, giving them one of their other nicknames: Slaughter Worlds.\n\nShips in the Culture are intelligent individuals, often of very large size, controlled by one or more Minds. The ship is considered the Mind's body (compare avatars). Some ships (GSVs, for example) are tens or even hundreds of kilometers in length and may have millions or even billions of residents who live on them full-time; together with Orbitals, such ships represent the main form of habitat for the Culture. Such large ships may temporarily contain smaller ships with their own populations, and/or manufacture such ships themselves.\n\nIn \"Use of Weapons\", the protagonist Zakalwe is allowed to acclimatise himself to the Culture by wandering for days through the habitable levels of a ship (the GSV \"Size Isn't Everything\", which is described as over long), eating and sleeping at the many locations which provide food and accommodation throughout the structure and enjoying the various forms of contact possible with the friendly and accommodating inhabitants.\n\nDyson spheres also exist in the Culture universe but receive only passing mention as \"Spheres\". Three spheres are recorded as having been destroyed in the Idiran-Culture war.\n\nThe Culture, living mostly on massive spaceships and in artificial habitats, and also feeling no need for conquest in the typical sense of the word, possesses no borders. Its sphere of influence is better defined by the (current) concentration of Culture ships and habitats as well as the measure of effect its example and its interventions have already had on the \"local\" population of any galactic sector. As the Culture is also a very graduated and constantly evolving society, its societal boundaries are also constantly in flux (though they tend to be continually expanding during the novels), peacefully \"absorbing\" societies and individuals.\n\nWhile the Culture is one of the most advanced and most powerful of all galactic civilizations, it is but one of the \"high-level Involved\" (called \"Optimae\" by some less advanced civilizations), the most powerful non-sublimed civilizations which mentor or control the others.\n\nAn Involved society is a highly advanced group that has achieved galaxy-wide involvement with other cultures or societies. There are a few dozen Involved societies and hundreds or thousands of well-developed (interstellar) but insufficiently influential societies or cultures; there are also well-developed societies known as \"galactically mature\" which do not take a dynamic role in the galaxy as a whole. In the novels, the Culture might be considered the premier Involved society, or at least the most dynamic and energetic, especially given that the Culture itself is a growing multicultural fusion of Involved societies. The Involved are contrasted with the Sublimed, groups that have reached a high level of technical development and galactic influence but subsequently abandoned physical reality, ceasing to take serious interventionist interest in galactic civilization. They are also contrasted with what some Culture people loosely refer to as \"barbarians\", societies of intelligent beings which lack the technical capacity to know about or take a serious role in their interstellar neighbourhood. There are also the elder civilisations, which are civilizations that reached the required level of technology for sublimation, but chose not to, and have retreated from the larger galactic meta-civilization.\n\nThe Involved are also contrasted with hegemonising swarms (a term used in several of Banks' Culture novels). These are entities that exist to convert as much of the universe as possible into more of themselves; most typically these are technological in nature, resembling more sophisticated forms of grey goo, but the term can be applied to cultures that are sufficiently single-minded in their devotion to mass conquest, control, and colonisation. Both the Culture and the author (in his \"Notes on the Culture\") find this behavior quixotic and ridiculous. Most often, societies categorized as hegemonising swarms consist of species or groups newly arrived in the galactic community with highly expansionary and exploitative goals. The usage of the term \"hegemonising swarm\" in this context is considered derisive in the Culture and among other Involved and is used to indicate their low regard for those with these ambitions by comparing their behavior to that of mindless self-replicating technology. The Culture's central moral dilemma regarding intervention in other societies can be construed as a conflict between the desire to help others and the desire to avoid becoming a hegemonising swarm themselves.\n\nAlthough they lead a comfortable life within the Culture, many of its citizens feel a need to be useful and to belong to a society that does not merely exist for their own sake but that also helps improve the lot of sentient beings throughout the galaxy. For that reason the Culture carries out \"good works\", covertly or overtly interfering in the development of lesser civilizations, with the main aim to gradually guide them towards less damaging paths. As Culture citizens see it these good works provide the Culture with a \"moral right to exist\".\n\nA group within the Culture, known as Contact, is responsible for its interactions (diplomatic or otherwise) with other civilizations (though non-Contact citizens are apparently not prevented from travelling or interacting with other civilizations). Further within Contact, an intelligence organisation named Special Circumstances exists to deal with interventions which require more covert behaviour; the interventionist approach that the Culture takes to advancing other societies may often create resentment in the affected civilizations and thus requires a rather delicate touch.\n\nIn \"Matter\", it is described that there are a number of other galactic civilizations that come close to or potentially even surpass the Culture in power and sophistication. The Culture is very careful and considerate of these groupings, and while still trying to convince them of the Culture ideal, will be much less likely to openly interfere in their activities.\n\nIn \"Surface Detail\", three more branches of Contact are described: Quietus, the Quietudinal Service, whose purview is dealing with those entities who have retired from biological existence into digital form and/or those who have died and been resurrected; Numina, which is described as having the charge of contact with races that have sublimed; and Restoria, a subset of Contact which focuses on containing and negating the threat of swarms of self-replicating creatures (\"hegswarms\").\n\nWhile the Culture is normally pacifist, Contact historically acts as its military arm in times of war and Special Circumstances can be considered its secret service and its military intelligence. During war, most of the strategic and tactical decisions are taken by the Minds, with apparently only a small number of especially gifted humans, the \"Referrers\", being involved in the top-level decisions, though they are not shown outside \"Consider Phlebas\". It is shown in \"Consider Phlebas\" that actual decisions to go to war (as opposed to purely defensive actions) are based on a vote of all Culture citizens, presumably after vigorous discussion within the whole society.\n\nIt is described in various novels that the Culture is extremely reluctant to go to war, though it may start to prepare for it long before its actual commencement. In the Idiran-Culture War (possibly one of the most hard-fought wars for the normally extremely superior Culture forces), various star systems, stellar regions and many orbital habitats were overrun by the Idirans before the Culture had converted enough of its forces to military footing. The Culture Minds had had enough foresight to evacuate almost all its affected citizens (apparently numbering in the many billions) in time before actual hostilities reached them. As shown in \"Player of Games\", this is a standard Culture tactic, with its strong emphasis on protecting its citizens rather than sacrificing some of them for short-term goals.\n\nWar within the Culture is mostly fought by the Culture's sentient warships, the most powerful of these being war-converted GSVs, which are described as powerful enough to oppose whole enemy fleets. The Culture has little use for conventional ground forces (as it rarely occupies enemy territory); combat drones equipped with knife missiles do appear in \"Descendant\" and \"terror weapons\" (basically intelligent, nano-form assassins) are mentioned in \"Look to Windward\", while infantry combat suits of great power (also usable as capable combat drones when without living occupants) are used in \"Matter\".\n\nThe inner workings of The Culture are not especially described in detail though it is shown that the society is populated by an empowered, educated and augmented citizery in a direct democracy or highly democratic and transparent system of self-governance. In comparisons to the real world, intended or not, the Culture could resemble various posited egalitarian societies including in the writings of Karl Marx: the end condition of communism after a withering away of the state, the anarchism of Bakunin and Fourier et al, libertarian socialism, council communism and anarcho-communism. Other characteristics of The Culture that are recognizable in real world politics include pacifism, post-capitalism, and transhumanism. Banks deliberately portrayed an imperfect utopia whose imperfection or weakness is related to its interaction with the 'other', that is, exterior civilizations and species that are sometimes variously warred with or mishandled through the Culture's Contact section which cannot always control its intrigues and the individuals it either 'employs' or interacts with. This 'dark side' of The Culture also alludes to or echoes mistakes and tragedies in 20th century Marxist-Leninist countries although the Culture is generally portrayed as far more 'humane' and just.\n\nComparisons are often made between the Culture and twentieth and twenty first century Western civilization and nation-states, particularly their interventions in less-developed societies. These are often confused with regard to the author's assumed politics.\n\nBen Collier has said that the Culture is a utopia carrying significantly greater moral legitimacy than the West's, by comparison, proto-democracies. While Culture interventions can seem similar at first to Western interventions, especially when considered with their democratising rhetoric, the argument is that the Culture operates completely without material need, and therefore without the possibility of baser motives. This is not to say that the Culture's motives are purely altruistic; a peaceful, enlightened universe full of good neighbours lacking ethnic, religious, and sexual chauvinisms is in the Culture's interest as well. Furthermore, the Culture's ideals (in many ways similar to those of the liberal perspective today) are to a much larger extent realised internally in comparison to the West.\n\nExamples are the use of mercenaries to perform the work that the Culture does not want to get their hands dirty with, and even outright threats of invasion (the Culture has issued ultimatums to other civilizations before). Some commentators have also argued that those Special Circumstances agents tasked with civilising foreign cultures (and thus potentially also changing them into a blander, more Culture-like state) are also those most likely to regret these changes, with parallels drawn to real-world special forces trained to operate within the cultural mindsets of foreign nations.\n\nThe events of \"Use of Weapons\" are an example of just how dirty Special Circumstances will play in order to get their way and the conspiracy at the heart of the plot of \"Excession\" demonstrates how at least some Minds are prepared to risk killing sentient beings when they conclude that these actions are beneficial for the long term good. Special Circumstances represents a very small fraction of Contact, which itself is only a small fraction of the entire Culture, making it comparable again to size and influence of modern intelligence agencies.\n\nThe Culture stories are largely about problems and paradoxes that confront liberal societies. The Culture itself is an \"ideal-typical\" liberal society; that is, as pure an example as one can reasonably imagine. It is highly egalitarian; the liberty of the individual is its most important value; and all actions and decisions are expected to be determined according to a standard of reasonability and sociability inculcated into all people through a progressive system of education. It is a society so beyond material scarcity that for almost all practical purposes its people can have and do what they want. If they do not like the behavior or opinions of others, they can easily move to a more congenial Culture population centre (or Culture subgroup), and hence there is little need to enforce codes of behavior.\n\nEven the Culture has to compromise its ideals where diplomacy and its own security are concerned. Contact, the group that handles these issues, and Special Circumstances, its secret service division, can employ only those on whose talents and emotional stability it can rely, and may even reject self-aware drones built for its purposes that fail to meet its requirements. Hence these divisions are regarded as the Culture's elite and membership is widely regarded as a prize; yet also something that can be shameful as it contradicts many of the Culture's moral codes.\n\nWithin Contact and Special Circumstances, there are also inner circles that can take control in crises, somewhat contradictory to the ideal notions of democratic and open process the Culture espouses. Contact and Special Circumstances may suppress or delay the release of information, for example to avoid creating public pressure for actions they consider imprudent or to prevent other civilizations from exploiting certain situations.\n\nIn dealing with less powerful regressive civilizations, the Culture usually intervenes discreetly, for example by protecting and discreetly supporting the more liberal elements, or subverting illiberal institutions. For instance, in \"Use of Weapons\", the Culture operates within a less advanced illiberal society through control of a business cartel which is known for its humanitarian and social development investments, as well as generic good Samaritanism. In \"Excession\", a sub-group of Minds conspires to provoke a war with the extremely sadistic Affront, although the conspiracy is foiled by a GSV that is a deep cover Special Circumstances agent. Only one story, \"Consider Phlebas\", pits the Culture against a highly illiberal society of approximately equal power: the aggressive, theocratic Idirans. Though they posed no immediate, direct threat to the Culture, the Culture declared war because it would have felt useless if it allowed the Idirans' ruthless expansion to continue. The Culture's decision was a value-judgement rather than a utilitarian calculation, and the \"Peace Faction\" within the Culture seceded. Later in the timeline of the Culture's universe, the Culture has reached a technological level at which most past civilizations have Sublimed, in other words disengaged from Galactic politics and from most physical interaction with other civilizations. The Culture continues to behave \"like an idealistic adolescent\".\n\nAs of 2008, three stories force the Culture to consider its approach to more powerful civilizations. In one incident during the Culture-Idiran War, they strive to avoid offending a civilization so advanced that it has disengaged from Galactic politics, and note that this hyper-advanced society is not a threat to either the welfare or the values of the Culture. In \"Excession\", an overwhelmingly more powerful individual from an extremely advanced civilization is simply passing through on its way from one plane of the physical Reality to another, and there is no real interaction. In the third case it sets up teams to study a civilization that is not threatening but is thought to have eliminated aggressors in the past.\n\nThe Culture series comprises nine novels and one short story collection (in publishing and mostly chronological order):\n\nWhen asked in \"Wired\" magazine (June 1996) whether mankind's fate depends on having intelligent machines running things, as in the Culture, Banks replied:\n\nIn a 2002 interview with \"Science Fiction Weekly\" magazine, when asked:\nBanks replied:\n"}
{"id": "35494723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35494723", "title": "The Legend of Hallowdega", "text": "The Legend of Hallowdega\n\nThe Legend of Hallowdega is a 2010 black comedy fantasy mockumentary short film, directed by Terry Gilliam from a screenplay by Aaron Bergeron. The film stars David Arquette and Justin Kirk, and features appearances by Dale Earnhardt Jr. and Darrell Waltrip. \"The Legend of Hallowdega\" was produced by RadicalMedia as branded content film for AMP Energy Juice, and was shot on location in Charlotte, NC and at Talladega Superspeedway, Alabama.\n\nThe host of an investigative news show joins forces with a techno-geek paranormal expert to dodge close-calls and chase crazy leads to get to the bottom of the mysteries around Talladega Superspeedway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8615589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8615589", "title": "The Oxford Companion to English Literature", "text": "The Oxford Companion to English Literature\n\nThe Oxford Companion to English Literature first published in 1932, edited by the retired diplomat Sir Paul Harvey (1869–1948), was the earliest of the Oxford Companions to appear. It is currently in its seventh edition (2009), edited by Dinah Birch. The work, which has been periodically updated, includes biographies of prominent historical and leading contemporary writers in the English language, entries on major works, \"allusions which may be encountered\", significant (serial) publications and literary clubs. Writers in other languages are included when they have affected the anglophone world. The \"Companion\" achieved \"classic status\" with the expanded fifth edition edited by novelist and scholar Margaret Drabble, and the book was often referred to as \"The Drabble\". \n\nHarvey's entries concerning Sir Walter Scott, much admired by Drabble in the introduction to the fifth edition, had to be reduced for reasons of space, in the sixth edition. \n\nModern technology has meant that the two most recent editions have been updated at intervals of about five years before more radical changes are made; a revised printing of the sixth edition was published in 2006. The revised 2000 edition is now available in the Oxford Reference Online series - by subscription only \n\n\n"}
{"id": "18522851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18522851", "title": "Traffic Safety and the Driver", "text": "Traffic Safety and the Driver\n\nTraffic Safety and the Driver, is a book authored by Leonard Evans.\n\nThe book was organized as follows:\n\nWhile the data presented is in some regards dated, the concepts apply now as they did then. This book has been repeatedly referred to as a classic in the fields of traffic safety, vehicle safety, and crash prevention. It has been positively reviewed by most of the world's most influential technical journals in relevant fields.\n\n\"Traffic Safety and the Driver\" is now largely eclipsed by the author's more recent book \"Traffic Safety\", which has received similarly enthusiastic reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "17912765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17912765", "title": "Zahi Hawass bibliography", "text": "Zahi Hawass bibliography\n\nThis is self-published list, dated to 2008, of all books and other works where Egyptologist Zahi Hawass has appeared as author or editor. Zahi Hawass usually does not write his own books; this fact is commonly known in the Egyptology community.\n\nThe list is in chronological order.\n\n\n"}
