{"id": "16487498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16487498", "title": "Allonby v Accrington and Rossendale College", "text": "Allonby v Accrington and Rossendale College\n\nAllonby v Accrington & Rossendale College (2004) C-256/01 is a European Union law case concerning the right of men and women to equal pay for work of equal value under Article 141 of the Treaty of the European Community.\n\nPart-time lecturers at Accrington and Rossendale College did not have their contracts renewed. They were rehired through an agency, ELS, and said to be \"self-employed independent contractors\" under the new arrangement. They were denied access to the Teachers Superannuation Scheme. It was apparent that more of the part-time lecturers were women than the staff that remained under permanent contracts with the college. \n\nThey brought a claim for unfair dismissal and sex discrimination. The Tribunal held that while there was no sex discrimination, there was an unfair dismissal. Lindsay J in the Employment Appeal Tribunal held there were sound business reasons for the change, given that the College was in financial trouble, and therefore objective justification of the disparate impact on women and no discrimination.\n\nThe Court of Appeal referred to the European Court of Justice for advice on the application of Art. 141. It held that the EAT failed to consider whether there could ever be a justification if the primary aim of the dismissal was discriminatory. Sedley LJ commented as follows, without saying whether the outcome would be favourable when it was reconsidered at tribunal, which would have to decide again on proportionate impact.\n\nThe ECJ held that despite the contract saying they were self-employed, and despite national legislation under the Equal Pay Act 1970 applying only to employees, workers and those personally performing work (which may have brought the outside the Act's protection) the lecturers did fall within the Community definition of worker.\n\nHowever, while they fell within the category of \"worker\", their claim failed because she could not point to a comparator that came from the same \"single source\".\n\nYet the ECJ stated that the rule that only \"employees\" could join the Teachers' Superannuation Scheme could well be incompatible with Article 141. The rule would be incompatible and should be disapplied if it shown to have an adverse impact on more women than men. If it is disapplied, it is not necessary for the claimant to point to a comparator of the opposite sex working for the same employer who has been adversely affected by the rule.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2431738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2431738", "title": "Asset-protection trust", "text": "Asset-protection trust\n\nAn asset-protection trust is any form of trust which provides for funds to be held on a discretionary basis. Such trusts are set up in an attempt to avoid or mitigate the effects of taxation, divorce and bankruptcy on the beneficiary. Such trusts are therefore frequently proscribed or limited in their effects by governments and the courts.\n\nThe asset-protection trust is a trust that splits the beneficial enjoyment of trust assets from their legal ownership. The beneficiaries of a trust are the beneficial owners of equitable interests in the trust assets, but they do not hold legal title to the assets. Thus this kind of trust fulfills the goal of asset protection planning, i.e. to insulate assets from claims of creditors without concealment or tax evasion. A creditor's ability to satisfy a judgment against a beneficiary's interest in a trust is limited to the beneficiary's interest in such trust. Consequently, the common goal of asset protection trusts is to limit the interests of beneficiaries in such a way so as to preclude creditors from collecting against trust assets.\n\nSuch trusts must be irrevocable (a revocable trust will not provide asset protection because and to the extent of the settlor's power to revoke). Most of them contain a spendthrift clause preventing a trust beneficiary from alienating his or her expected interest in favor of a creditor. The spendthrift clause has three general exceptions to the protection afforded: the self-settled trusts (if the settlor of a trust is also a beneficiary of a trust), the case when a debtor is the sole beneficiary and the sole trustee of a trust, and the support payments (a court may order the trustee to satisfy a beneficiary's support obligation to a former spouse or minor child). The first general exception, which accounts for the majority of asset protection trusts, no longer applies in several jurisdictions. The laws of certain jurisdictions including Alaska, Bermuda, and the Cayman Islands allow self-settled trusts to afford their settlors the protection of the spendthrift clause.\n\nTrusts were developed at common law in England originally to minimize the impact of inheritance taxes arising from transfers at death. The essence of the trust was to separate \"legal\" title, which was given to someone to hold as \"trustee\", from \"equitable title\", which was to be retained by the trust beneficiaries.\n\nIn the United States and England, a practice developed whereby trust settlors began to use \"spendthrift\" clauses to prevent trust beneficiaries from alienating their beneficial interests to creditors. Over time, courts were asked to determine the efficacy of spendthrift clauses as against the trust beneficiaries seeking to engage in such assignments, and the creditors of those beneficiaries seeking to reach trust assets. A case law doctrine developed whereby courts may generally recognize the efficacy of spendthrift clauses as against trust beneficiaries and their creditors, but not against creditors of a settlor.\n\nAlaska was the first US jurisdiction to enact laws allowing protection for self-settled trusts (in 1997) and was shortly followed by Delaware, Nevada, South Dakota and a few others. These trusts are known as \"Domestic Asset Protection Trusts\" (DAPTs). Usually, a DAPT must comply with the following requirements:\n\nTrusts are generally governed by the laws of the jurisdiction that is designated by the settlor as the governing jurisdiction. There are two exceptions to the general rule, which may create conflicts of law: (i) states will not recognize laws of sister states that violate their own public policy, and (ii) if the trust owns real property, such property will be governed by the law of jurisdiction that is the property's situs. Additionally, the Full Faith and Credit clause of the Constitution provides that each state must give full faith and credit to the laws of every other state. This means that if a court from another state refuses to recognize the protection of a DAPT and enters a judgment for the creditor, the creditor may be able to enforce the judgment against the trustee of the DAPT, even if that trustee was located in the DAPT jurisdiction. The efficacy of a DAPT may also be challenged under the Supremacy clause of the U.S. Constitution, under the applicable fraudulent transfer statute, or because the settlor retained some prohibited control over the trust.\n\nThese jurisdictions are also known as \"United States Asset Protection Trusts\" (USAPTs), from the point of view of the non-US settlors. The issues that would seem to apply on a USAPT established by a non-US settlor are: 1) whether a non-US court has jurisdiction over the USAPT; 2) the conflict of US versus non-US laws (i.e., which jurisdiction's laws will apply to the trust and the protection it purports to offer); 3) which fraudulent transfer law would apply; and 4) whether the US state court will recognize the non-US judgment.\n\nThe context of a non-US settlor has a few advantages over that of a US settlor. The issue of the Full Faith and Credit clause doctrine of the US Constitution would not apply to a non-US settlor facing a non-US judgment. Creditors of non-US settlors would have to first obtain a judgment in their home jurisdiction and then attempt to enforce that \"foreign\" judgment in the US against the trustee of the USAPT, who was not a party to the original action. Therefore, except in unusual cases, this would mean that the only issues to litigate would be whether a fraudulent transfer has taken place, and in turn, which jurisdiction's fraudulent transfer laws would apply. Despite that, the non-US creditor must still seek to first have the foreign judgment recognized, because without formal legal acknowledgment of the judgment in the US court, there would be no basis on which to question the transfer.\n\nSouth Dakota was one of the first states (1983) to allow a trust to endure perpetually, essentially jumping outside the onerous federal transfer (gift, estate and generation-skipping) tax system theoretically forever. Currently, twenty-four other states have joined the ranks of offering a long-term trust. Nineteen of these states, including South Dakota, allow a trust to continue in perpetuity.\n\nSouth Dakota does not impose any form of state taxation on the assets that comprise a trust located there. This includes, but is not limited to: no state income, capital gains, dividend/interest and/or intangible's taxes. Additionally, South Dakota has the lowest insurance premium tax of any state (i.e., 8 basis points or 8/100ths of 1%) and also offers other very favorable insurance legislation. South Dakota also has both excellent self-settled trust as well as third party discretionary trust statutes, both allowing for domestic asset protection planning with trusts.\n\nSouth Dakota is the first and only state in the US with a third party discretionary trust statute for asset protection, which states that a discretionary interest in third party trust, limited power of appointments, and remainder interests are not considered property interests. This statute is extremely important to properly asset protect trusts set up to benefit one's family. South Dakota also has some of the top-rated Asset Protection statutes for LLCs and LPs based upon a powerful \"sole remedy charging order statute\". Consequently, most of the unique and creative trust strategies for the wealthy involve trust administration in South Dakota without the necessity of having the trust's family reside there.\n\nThe trust laws of the offshore world are typically founded on the trust laws of the onshore world. For those jurisdictions which are currently possessions of the UK, or were former possessions of the UK, typically the UK Trustee Act of 1925 is the common starting point. From there, each jurisdiction has sought to develop and evolve the law in a race to develop the most attractive trust environment which maintains acceptable standards, preserves the concepts of a trust, yet is attractive to potential users. Many of these jurisdictions share similar characteristics.\n\nThe Commonwealth of the Bahamas have traditionally been associated with offshore planning. However, the Bahamas are probably more noteworthy for offshore banking. The Bahamas do not recognize self-settled spendthrift trusts, unlike the Cook Islands, Nevis, or Belize.\n\nThe burden of proof for a claimant to challenge a transfer into a Bahamian Trust has a limitation period of two years, the same as Cook Islands.\n\nThe quality of the banking and investment services is reasonable for the uses of a Trustee of an asset protection trust, however, the quality of the judiciary is considered low, as the legal profession is generally closed to the entry of non-Bahamians, and it is therefore difficult bring the knowledge of a specialised trust lawyer to the jurisdiction when needed.\n\nBelize, offers immediate protection from court action initiated by creditors which challenges the settlor's transfer of property into the trust. However, due to the paucity of credible offshore banks in Belize, many trusts established in Belize hold assets with a second trustee or third-party financial institution in another country.\n\nBermuda, entry to follow\n\nCayman Islands trusts are governed principally by the Cayman Islands Trusts Law (2009 Revision), however elements of the Fraudulent Dispositions Law 1989 are relevant when considering the asset protection benefits of Cayman Trusts.\n\nA number of offshore jurisdictions have enacted modern asset protection legislation based on the Cayman Island's Fraudulent Dispositions Law 1989 (the \"FDL\"). The Cayman Islands FDL states \"Every disposition of property made with an intention to defraud, and at undervalue, shall be voidable at the insistence of an eligible creditor thereby prejudiced\". The burden of proof is borne by the creditor applying to set aside the trust, and in the case of the Cayman Islands, the creditor/claimant must bring an action in the Cayman Islands courts (not in their home jurisdiction). The bar is set high for a potential claimant to successfully challenge a transfer. They must demonstrate an intention to defraud on behalf of the Settlor, and they must demonstrate they are an \"eligible creditor\" - meaning that at the date of the transfer, the transferor owes an obligation to the claimant. They must also be willing to bring an action in the Cayman Islands, which by itself is an expensive proposition.\n\nThe burden of proof for a claimant to challenge a transfer into a Cayman Trust has a limitation period of six years.\n\nIn Cayman it is possible to register a trust as an Exempt Trust however it is voluntary registration regime only, so most trusts remain unregistered. As most Cayman trusts are therefore private arrangements, it is hard to give exact figures for the popularity of AP Trusts governed by Cayman law. However the number of licensed trust companies give us some indication of how the jurisdiction is viewed. As of 30 September 2012 the Fiduciary Services Division of CIMA, the body responsible for licensing and regulating trust companies in the Cayman Islands has supervisory responsibility for 146 active trust licences.\n\nAs the Cayman Islands are a British Overseas Dependent Territory, the quality of the judiciary is considered excellent, with the islands able to draw on the services of UK lawyers and solicitors when contentious cases arise and expert lawyers with appropriate experience are required. The quality of banking and investment services are reasonably good.\n\nThe Cook Islands claims to be the first country to have enacted an explicit asset protection law, implementing particular provisions in 1989 to its International Trusts Act. Several of these changes have been adopted in one form or another in several other countries and a handful of a U.S. states. The most important of these changes permits the settlor of a trust to be named as a spendthrift beneficiary.\n\nThe trust laws of the Cook Islands provide a shortened statute of limitations on fraudulent transfer claims. While most U.S. states have a four-year statute of limitations (and the Statute of Elizabeth in some common law jurisdictions has no statute of limitations), the general statute of limitations in the Cook Islands is reduced to two years for fraudulent transfers; in certain circumstances, it may be as short as one year. If the trust is funded while the settlor is solvent, then the transfer cannot be challenged.(i.e., there is no time period for the creditor to challenge the transfer)\n\nSeveral provisions of the Cook Islands law specify the form of pleading that a creditor must establish in order for its claim to be heard in a Cook Islands court. The effect of these provisions is to raise the burden of proof to \"beyond a reasonable doubt,\" something akin to a criminal law standard, in order for a creditor to establish a fraudulent transfer. The \"constructive\" fraudulent transfer theories are eliminated under Cook Islands law, requiring the creditor to prove that the transfer was made with specific intent to avoid the creditor's claim.\n\nIt is believed that the Cook Islands now has more registered asset protection trusts than any other country, although it should be noted that in most jurisdictions a Trust is considered a private arrangement and it is not a requirement to register a Trust. Case law is somewhat lacking in the Cook Islands. However, some landmark decisions show that the Cook Islands Court intends to uphold the asset protection trust law. In 1999, the Federal Trade Commission attempted to recover assets from a Cook Islands Trust. The suit filed by the FTC against a trust company was unsuccessful. The quality of the judiciary and the associated banking and investment services offered from the Cook Islands are considered poor.\n\nNevis was one of the first countries to follow the Cook Islands, duplicating an older version of the Cook Islands law and naming it the Nevis International Exempt Trust Ordinance, 1994. One distinguishing feature of the Nevis legislation is that a creditor must post a bond of ECB 25,000 (roughly USD 13,000) to lodge a complaint against a trust registered in Nevis.\n\nVery little case law exists in Nevis, which many attorneys interpret to mean that creditors are effectively deterred from bringing suit in Nevis. It has a small offshore banking industry, with St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla Bank and Bank of Nevis International as the only licensed offshore banks.\n\nLLC legislation modeled after the Delaware LLC Act was passed in 1996. This has enabled Nevis to distinguish itself as a primary offshore jurisdiction for LLC formations, as opposed to other countries that are well known for IBC formations (British Virgin Islands) or trust formations (Cayman Islands). A Nevis LLC is often used in conjunction with an asset protection trust because it gives the creator of the trust direct control over the assets if the creator is listed as the manager of the Nevis LLC. This gives the creator added security in that it keeps the assets one step removed from the trustee of the asset protection trust. Because the managers and members of a Nevis LLC are not public information, the creator of the trust is able to assume control over the assets without disclosing his control on any public records.\n\nThe Channel Islands have been long regarded as being the first jurisdictions to develop an offshore finance industry, each is often regarded as being one of the best quality jurisdictions to use. Fully compliant with anti money laundering laws, sharing taxation information with an increasing number of countries, modern case law indicate that creditors, who have a rightful claim, are able to freeze trust assets in the Channel Islands. Tax law initiatives in the UK have largely eliminated the tax advantages of UK citizens placing assets in trust in the Channel Islands, which in the early years had been a source of business. While the Channel Islands enjoys a modern banking sector, most attorneys do not regard the Channel Islands as appropriate for asset protection planning.\n\nThe judicial systems of the Channel Islands are split into two distinct Bailiwicks. The Bailiwick of Jersey, and the Bailiwick of Guernsey (which includes the islands of Guernsey, Alderney Sark, and Herm). The legal systems in each island follows a dual system based on Norman-French codified law overlaid with elements of English common law. Whilst specialised training is required in order to practice law in each of the Bailiwicks, the Bar is not open to everyone, the quality of the judiciary is generally considered very good, if not very expensive. Regulation of Fiduciary companies and the related banking and investment services offered in the Channel Islands is also considered good to excellent.\n\nSwitzerland and Liechtenstein are noteworthy for large banking sectors and sophisticated wealth management services. While both countries now recognize trusts (particularly trusts established under the laws of another jurisdiction, such as Nevis), there is no available case law yet which indicates how the courts of those two countries will enforce offshore asset protection trust laws.\n\nMany attorneys establish asset protection trusts under the laws of another country and deposit the trust assets in Switzerland or Liechtenstein. One question raised by this approach is whether a creditor can seize assets in Switzerland or Liechtenstein without having to bring a claim in the trust-protective jurisdiction. Again, a lack of precedent suggests that this is an open issue in Switzerland and Liechtenstein.\n\nBoth countries are also known for offering asset protection annuities, with a six-month statute of limitations on fraudulent transfers into an annuity. Unfortunately for most Americans, these annuities cannot invest in US securities without punitive taxation due to the offshore status of the insurance carriers that offer these annuity products. Furthermore, many lawyers peddling these annuity products to their clients collect commissions from the insurance carriers. These reasons, among others, may help explain why annuities offered in these two countries are not particularly popular with U.S. persons. This does not mean that taxpayers of other jurisdictions may not significantly benefit from holding a Swiss or Liechtenstein annuity. Also, U.S. persons may benefit from holding an annuity issued by a carrier in an asset-protective jurisdiction (such as the Cook Islands), particularly if the carrier is an electing 953(d) carrier (a reference to a provision of US tax law).\n\nWhether such a trust is a spendthrift trust on the U.S. model, a protective trust on the Commonwealth model or another form of discretionary trust, it is more likely to be subject to challenge under the common law doctrine of sham or under specific statutory provisions if any person setting up the trust (or their spouse and their spouse in turn as in a reciprocal trust):\n\nOffshore trusts and other asset protection vehicles typically do not prevent action against the individual concerned in his or her home country. Orders under divorce and creditor protection laws can typically be made against that individual notwithstanding the alleged independence of such trustees. If a judge determines that the trust settlor controls the assets of the offshore trust, the judge may order the settlor to repatriate the trust assets. Failure to comply with the court's order may lead to a finding of contempt of court and imprisonment. For this reason, a properly established asset protection trust should provide a clear separation between the settlor and those who exercise control over the trust assets.\n\nThe most recent case to rule on the merits of a contempt order is \"US v. Grant\". In 2005, a federal district court in Miami ordered a domestic protector of an offshore asset protection trust, under threat of contempt, to exercise her power to replace the foreign trustee with a domestic trustee chosen by the court. The ruling, \"U.S. v. Grant\" Case No. 00-08986-Civ-Jordan (D.C. So. Fla. 2005), threatened to draw into question the viability of an asset-protection trust if a domestic protector could be compelled to appoint a domestic trustee to marshal the assets and bring them within the purview of the domestic court proceedings.\n\nIn May 2008, the U.S. government sought to hold the domestic protector in contempt of court for failing to secure the cooperation of the foreign trustee to resign and repatriate the trust assets. The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida ruled against the government, finding that the domestic protector could not be held in contempt for failure to gain the cooperation of the offshore trustee. In denying the government's contempt motion, the judge observed:\n\n\"I understand that it has been more than two years since the repatriation order was issued and that the funds had not yet been repatriated. But this failure is not for a lack of effort. I am reluctant to fault Mrs. Grant for her trustees' denial of her requests to repatriate the funds.\" \"U.S. v. Grant\", 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 51332, 101 A.F. T.R.2d (RIA) 2676 (D.C. So. Fla. 2008).\n\nFor years, lawyers have vigorously debated the vulnerability of an asset protection trust with a domestic protector. The Grant case stands for the proposition that no vulnerability exists if the domestic protector complies with the court's orders. While a domestic protector may be required to make an effort to repatriate trust assets, failure to achieve repatriation should not entail any dire consequences to the trust or to the domestic protector. As long as a duress clause permits the foreign trustee to ignore the pleas of a domestic protector acting under threat of a contempt order, the selection of a domestic protector should not jeopardize the integrity of the offshore asset protection trust.\n\nWhile most attorneys draft trust agreements to limit the domestic protector's powers to those of a negative nature (i.e., the domestic protector may veto trustee decisions, but a domestic protector cannot order a trustee to do anything), the ruling in \"Grant\" implies that even positive powers exercisable by a domestic protector may not jeopardize an offshore asset protection trust containing a duress clause. Whether this leads attorneys to be more cavalier in their trust drafting remains to be seen. At least we know that traditional offshore asset protection trust planning works as anticipated.\n\nThere are rigorous US tax reporting requirements that apply to taxpayers who establish offshore trusts. While no additional tax is usually imposed, certain forms of asset protection trusts require full disclosure of all trust assets and activities on the U.S. contributor's tax returns. Confidentiality is usually not enjoyed under these arrangements.\n\nMost asset protection trusts established by U.S. settlors are considered \"grantor trusts\" under U.S. income tax law, meaning that all income of the trust is reportable on the grantor's (i.e., the settlor's) individual income tax return. Asset-protection trusts do not, in and of themselves, offer any tax advantages under U.S. income tax law.\n\n"}
{"id": "58588610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58588610", "title": "Australian Libraries Copyright Committee", "text": "Australian Libraries Copyright Committee\n\nThe Australian Libraries Copyright Committee (ALCC) is an Australian organisation dealing with copyright law. It has a particular focus with relevance for the GLAM sector in Australia. It is related to the Australian Digital Alliance.\n\nFormed in 1994 to attend to copyright issues affecting the library, archive and information sectors, the ALCC became an incorporated body in 2015. The ALCC is focused upon law reform in the Australian legal system. It regularly provides updated information and interpretation about legislation.\n\nLegislation relative to copyright issues with Australia being signatory to international treaties, has seen the committee attend to low level publicised legislation such as the Disability and Other Measures Act.\n\nThe ALCC is based at the National Library of Australia in Canberra.\n\n"}
{"id": "52114506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52114506", "title": "Bangladesh Copyright Office", "text": "Bangladesh Copyright Office\n\nBangladesh Copyright Office national level quasi-judicial organisation responsible for copyright management in Bangladesh and is located in Dhaka, Bangladesh.\n\nAfter the independence of Bangladesh in 1971 the regional copyright office was made the national copyright office. It is a department under the ministry of culture. It has been criticized for failing to coordinate with the Department of Patents, Designs and Trademarks, both of which are responsible for the protection of intellectual property in Bangladesh. Copyright applications are available on its website.\n"}
{"id": "48322973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48322973", "title": "Banishment Stela", "text": "Banishment Stela\n\nThe Banishment Stela or Maunier Stela (Louvre C 256) is an ancient Egyptian stela issued in c.1050 BCE. It contains an amnesty decree of the 21st Dynasty Theban High Priests of Amun Menkheperre.\n\nThe Banishment Stela was discovered in Luxor around 1860 by the then French Vice-Consul, Henri Maunier; it was carried to Paris in 1884 and exhibited at the Louvre where it still is.<br>\nThe stela is made from diorite and measures in height and in width. The upper part is poorly preserved, and only a depiction of Menkheperre praying to the god Amun is still visible; the lower portion is in better condition and of the 23 lines of Egyptian hieroglyph text, only the first 4 are mostly lost.\n\nThe stela mentions three dates, although it is not entirely clear what happened on them, or even to which reign(s) they belonged. These dates are (in the order in which they appear in the text, which is not necessarily their correct chronological order):\n\n\nAccording to Von Beckerath, with date C, for reasons of space, the regnal year could only have been relatively low. Acceptable solutions would be: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 11 or 20.\n\nThe stela apparently reports that in the regnal Year 25 of an unknown pharaoh a revolt sparked in Thebes against the Priesthood of Amun. The revolt was suffocated in the same year, and the rebels were banished (date A) into the Kharga Oasis by decision of the oracle of Amun. Shortly after (date B) Menkheperre was installed as \"generalissimo\" and High Priest of Amun “by the god Amun himself”; in the early reign of another king (date C), Menkheperre again resorted to the oracle and obtained the recall and pardon of the exiles, just before issuing the stela to celebrate this act.\n\nThe king whose regnal Year 25 is reported on the stela (date A) could only have been the founder of the 21st Dynasty Smendes, who is generally assumed to have reigned for around 25–26 years. The king who was in charge when the stela was issued (date C) was one of his immediate successors, most likely the ephemeral and poorly known Amenemnisu, or alternatively but less likely, Psusennes I.\n\n"}
{"id": "43419158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43419158", "title": "Bill Chamber", "text": "Bill Chamber\n\nThe Bill Chamber was formerly a court of Scotland, often considered as part of the Court of Session but in fact separate from it. It dealt with petitions for suspension (appeal), interdict, sequestrations etc., and was the approximate equivalent to sittings in camera (in chambers) in American or English law.\n\nThe Bill Chamber was \"under the same roof\" as the Court of Session, but was a separate court or jurisdiction. Its history and function were discussed in the report of the Royal Commission on the Court of Session and the Office of Sheriff Principal (1927) which concluded \"the usefulness of the Bill Chamber as a Court separate from the Court of Session no longer exists\" and it was thus abolished by the Administration of Justice (Scotland) Act 1933.\n\nSome of its processes are now carried out by the Accountant in Bankruptcy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1414453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1414453", "title": "Capital asset", "text": "Capital asset\n\nA capital asset is defined to include property of any kind held by an assessee, whether connected with their business or profession or not connected with their business or profession. It includes all kinds of property, movable or immovable, tangible or intangible, fixed or circulating. Thus, land and building, plant and machinery, motorcar, furniture, jewellery, route permits, goodwill, tenancy rights, patents, trademarks, shares, debentures, securities, units, mutual funds, zero-coupon bonds etc. are capital assets.\n\n\n\nA well-known financial accounting textbook advises that the term be avoided except in tax accounting because it is used in so many different senses, not all of them well-defined. For example it is often used as a synonym for fixed assets or for investments in securities.\n\nHowever this advice is questionable beyond the US private context. Several public sector standards in global use, notably triple bottom line accounting as defined by ICLEI for world cities, require that employees or the environment or something else be treated as a capital asset. In this context it means something managers have a responsibility to maintain, and to report changes in value as gains or losses. \"See human capital, natural capital, triple bottom line, human development theory.\"\n\nCapital assets should not be confused with the capital a financial institution is required to hold. This capital is computed from the right-hand side of the balance sheet while assets are found on the left-hand side. \"See Basel III for a summary of how such requirements are proposed to be calculated.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "26883660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26883660", "title": "Carol Smart", "text": "Carol Smart\n\nCarol Christine Smart (born 20 December 1948) is a feminist sociologist and academic at the University of Manchester. She has also conducted research about divorce and children of divorced couples.\n\nSmart is an important figure within the feminist criminology world. Her book titled \"Women, Crime and Criminology\", written in 1976, remains a key feminist critique of criminology. Smart was also the co-director of the Morgan Centre for the Study of Relationships and Personal Life at Manchester.\n\nSmart began her academic career by studying sociology at Portsmouth Polytechnic, which is now Portsmouth University. After completing her BA, she moved on to complete her masters in criminology from the University of Sheffield. She also completed her PhD in Socio-Legal studies also from Sheffield in 1983.\n\nSmart began her teaching career at the then, Trent Polytechnic, (as a lecturer and senior lecturer). After that, she became a professor at the University of Leeds. In 2005, she moved to the Morgan Centre for the Study of Relationships and Personal Life in the Arthur Lewis Building of the University of Manchester, where she was co-director. She retired in 2014.\n\nSmart has published works in the areas of criminology, family law and social policy. Her main interests over the last few years have been family life and intimacy and how people conduct their personal lives. Smart has done much research on divorce and separation and how this affects children, the couple and other kin, and on gay and lesbian civil partnerships and their commitment ceremonies. More recently she has been working on 'Relative Strangers', a project which explores the experiences of families with donor-conceived children.\n\nShe was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2017 New Year Honours for services to the social sciences.\n\n\n\n\n\nA set of reports funded by the Department for Constitutional Affairs using qualitative data, specifically, interviews with parents who had taken their disputes over residence and contact with their children to court. The 2003 reports relate to interviews conducted at the start of the legal process whilst the 2005 reports relate to interviews conducted as the cases were concluded.\n\nSmart has provided definitions for the following words in \"The Cambridge Dictionary of Sociology\" :\n\n"}
{"id": "37998792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37998792", "title": "Confiscation of Armenian properties in Turkey", "text": "Confiscation of Armenian properties in Turkey\n\nThe confiscation of Armenian properties by the Ottoman and Turkish governments involved seizure of the assets, properties and land of the country's Armenian community. Starting with the Hamidian massacres in the mid-1890s and peaking during the Armenian Genocide, the confiscation of the Armenian property lasted continuously until the Istanbul pogrom of 1955 and with renewed efforts in 1974. Much of the confiscations during the Armenian Genocide were made after the Armenians were deported into the Syrian Desert with the government declaring their goods and assets left behind as \"abandoned\". Virtually all properties owned by Armenians living in their ancestral homeland in Western Armenia were confiscated and later distributed among the local Muslim population. Renewed efforts were introduced in 1974 where the property acquired by the Armenian community after the property declaration of 1936 was confiscated.\n\nHistorians argue that the mass confiscation of Armenian properties was an important factor in forming the economic basis of the Turkish Republic while endowing Turkey's economy with capital. The appropriation led to the formation of a new Turkish bourgeoisie and an exclusive middle class.\n\nOn 16 May 1915, while the Armenian Genocide was underway, a secret directive was promulgated entitled \"administrative instruction regarding movable and immovable property abandoned by Armenians deported as a result of the war and unusual political circumstances.\" Once enacted, the directive established special commissions, known as the \"Abandoned Property Commissions\" (Turkish: Emvâl-i Metrûke İdare Komisyonları) and the \"Liquidation Commissions\" (Turkish: Tasfiye Komisyonu), which were tasked with providing detailed information and appraising the value of assets \"abandoned\" by deportees under the guise of \"safeguarding\" them. The number of these commissions rose to 33 by January 1916. After the departure of the deportees, goods and livestock that were deemed \"perishable\" were prioritized as the first items that must be sold using public auctions, while the profits from these auctions were to be safeguarded under the entitlement of the owners. After providing documentation of the property (copies provided to the owners and the Ottoman Treasury), the directive specified that \"muhajirs\" (Turkish refugees mainly from the Balkan wars) were to be settled in the vacant lands and properties belonging to the deportees. Once settled, the refugees had to register the land and houses, while other assets that were affixed to the property, such as olive groves and vineyards, were to be allocated amongst them. Unwanted items and assets were to be sold in public auctions. According to historian Dickran Kouymjian, the settlement of \"muhajirs\" into the lands and properties of deported Armenians implies that local authorities had firsthand knowledge that the deportees were to never return.\n\nOn 29 May 1915, the Committee of Union and Progress (CUP) Central Committee passed the Tehcir Law authorizing the deportation of \"persons judged to be a threat to national security.\" The Tehcir Law emphasized that the deportees must not sell their assets, but instead provide a detailed list and submit the list to the local authorities:\n\nWhile the Tehcir law was being carried out, the Directorate for the Settlement of Tribes and Refugees (Turkish: Iskan-i Asairin Muhacirin Muduriyeti), under the Ministry of Internal Affairs, was tasked in June 1915 to deal with the property left behind by deported or killed Armenians. This commission, whose salaries were provided by property confiscated by Armenians, produced the \"Temporary Law of Expropriation and Confiscation (\"Abandoned Properties\" law) and published in the official register on 27 September (13 September according to the Islamic calendar) and passed a further directive for implementation of the law on 8 November. The objectives of the laws were simultaneously to reduce Armenian property ownership, enrich national politicians, and to resettle Turkish Muslim refugees in property which was seized. The property confiscated included personal property (including land, buildings, and bank accounts), businesses, and also community property (e.g. churches). Items that were considered useful for the immediacy of the war effort were prioritized and immediately confiscated with a separate decree. Under the law, property and asset transactions were forbidden prior to the deportation thereby preventing the owners from having the opportunity to keep his or her property. Although the law was called \"Temporary\", the provisions within it seemed to aim toward the permanent transformation of the ethnicity of communities from Armenian to Turkish Muslim.\n\nThese resettlement laws did contain formal reporting of property to national authorities and contained procedures for those who had property taken to sue, but the specifics of the law made these provisions serve the larger goal to \"Turkify\" regions and economic sectors. The property records and revenue generated from the sale or rent of confiscated property were all recorded and deposited with the Ministry of Financial Affairs to provide for the possible return of property to owners. In addition, the law provided that those whose property had been confiscated to sue for return of the property (and payment for any damages which occurred). However, the law required property owners to sue and be present themselves (not allowing the power of attorney), an impossibility when property owners had been killed or deported. In addition, the defendant in any case would be the state which made the chances of success in any lawsuit extremely unlikely. Finally, the law provided that the confiscated property be sold at auction; however, because the law specified that \"anybody other than Turkish Muslim refugees can only acquire property in Turkey with the approval of the Ministry of Internal Affairs\", the result was that non-Turkish Muslims were effectively excluded. Property was provided often to national and local political elites, who eventually gave them to Turkish Muslim refugees.\n\nThe impact of these laws were immediate. According to a report in June 1916 by the German ambassador stationed in Constantinople, the goods of the Armenians \"have long since been confiscated, and their capital has been liquidated by a so-called commission, which means that if an Armenian owned a house valued at, say, £T100, a Turk – a friend or member [of the Ittihad and Terakki] – could have it for around £T2.\"\n\nThe only notable domestic opposition was by Ottoman parliamentary representative Ahmed Riza, who stated:\nIt is unlawful to designate the Armenian assets as \"abandoned goods\" for the Armenians, the proprietors, did not abandon their properties voluntarily; they were forcibly, compulsorily removed from their domiciles and exiled. Now the government through its efforts is selling their goods ... Nobody can sell my property if I am unwilling to sell it. Article 21 of the Constitution forbids it. If we are a constitutional regime functioning in accordance with constitutional law we can't do this. This is atrocious. Grab my arm, eject me from my village, then sell my goods and properties, such a thing can never be permissible. Neither the conscience of the Ottomans nor the law can allow it.\nFormal directives were made to have much of the properties and businesses confiscated from the Armenians to be transferred into the hands of Muslims. On 6 January 1916, Talaat Pasha, the Interior Minister of the Ottoman Empire, decreed:\nIn addition to churches and monasteries, other community owned properties confiscated were schools and educational facilities. The Interior Ministry had ordered such educational facilities to be assigned to Muslims:\nFollowing the decree, private Armenian schools became Ottoman Turkish schools and school supplies were distributed to the Turkish Muslim population. Abraham Harutiunian, a priest living in Zeitun, notes in his memoirs that the school in Zeitun was confiscated by the government and that \"the Armenians no longer had any right to education, and the campus was now filled with hundreds of Turkish children.\"\n\nBy the early 1930s, all properties belonging to Armenians who were subject to deportation had been confiscated. Since then, no restitution of property confiscated during the Armenian Genocide has taken place. The laws concerning abandoned property remained in effect for 73 years until it was finally abolished on 11 June 1986. The mass confiscation of properties provided the opportunity for ordinary lower class Turks (i.e. peasantry, soldiers, and laborers) to rise to the ranks of the middle class. Contemporary Turkish historian Uğur Ümit Üngör asserts that \"the elimination of the Armenian population left the state an infrastructure of Armenian property, which was used for the progress of Turkish (settler) communities. In other words: the construction of an étatist Turkish \"national economy\" was unthinkable without the destruction and expropriation of Armenians.\"\n\nAlthough the exact extent of confiscated property during the Armenian Genocide is unknown, according to Talaat Pasha's private documents, the chief initiator of the Tehcir Law, a total of 20,545 buildings were confiscated including 267,536 acres of land along with other parcels of agricultural and tillable lands such as 76,942 acres of vineyards, 703,941 acres of olive groves, and 4,573 acres of mulberry gardens.\n\nDuring the Paris Peace Conference, the Armenian delegation presented an assessment of $3.7 billion (about $ billion today) worth of material losses owned solely by the Armenian church. During the conference in February 1920, the Armenian community presented an additional demand for the restitution of property and assets seized by the Ottoman government. The joint declaration, which was submitted to the Supreme Council by the Armenian delegation and prepared by the religious leaders of the Armenian community, claimed that the Ottoman government had destroyed 2,000 churches and 200 monasteries and had provided the legal system for giving these properties to other parties. The declaration also provided a financial assessment of the total losses of personal property and assets of both Turkish and Russian Armenia with 14,598,510,000 and 4,532,472,000 francs respectively; totaling to an estimated $ billion today. Furthermore, the Armenian community asked for the restitution of church owned property and reimbursement of its generated income. The Ottoman government never responded to this declaration and so restitution did not occur.\n\nThe issue of confiscated Armenian property came about in a number of treaties signed between the First Republic of Armenia and the Ottoman Empire. Both the Treaty of Batum (signed 4 June 1918) and the Treaty of Sèvres (signed 10 August 1920) contained provisions related to the restitution for confiscated properties of Armenians. The Treaty of Sèvres under Article 144 specified that the Abandoned Property commissions and Liquidation commissions must be abolished and the laws of confiscation be annulled. Meanwhile, however, those who seized the assets and properties of Armenians turned to support the Turkish national movement since the dissolution of the Ottoman government would mean that the properties and assets would be protected under their name. Thus, on 8 May 1920, the first law promulgated by the newly established parliament was to pardon those charged of massacre and expropriation of property by the Turkish courts-martial of 1919-20. Furthermore, with the establishment of the Turkish republic and the signing of the Treaty of Lausanne (24 July 1923), the provisions of the Treaty of Sevres eventually never took effect and the liquidation committees involved with the confiscation of Armenian property resumed operations.\n\nIn addition to confiscated property, large sums of money and precious metals belonging to Armenians were also seized and deposited into the treasuries of the Ottoman government or in various German or Austrian banks during the war. Such sums were believed to be withdrawn from the bank accounts of deported and killed Armenians. An official memorandum prepared by former British Prime Ministers Stanley Baldwin and H. H. Asquith was sent to then Prime Minister of Great Britain Ramsay MacDonald describing such seizures and deposits:\nMuch of the money deposits into banks and other financial institutions have also been subsequently seized in the immediate aftermath of the deportations. Once a deposit was made, a certificate was given to the depositor as a proof of deposit. However, once the deportations began, withdrawals were prohibited. Much of the deportees who had held deposits were left with only certificates in their possession. Many of the depositors still carry the certificates of deposit today. Historian Kevork Baghdjian states that the worth of these deposits \"should rise to astronomical sums today,\" with the \"deposited capital and interests combined.\"\n\nFollowing the Turkish War of Independence and the creation of the Republic of Turkey in 1923, the confiscation resumed with most Armenians having been deported or killed. During the early Republican era, the legal terminology was changed from \"transported persons\" to \"persons who lost or fled from the country.\"\n\nOn 15 April 1923, just before the signing of the Treaty of Lausanne, the Turkish government enacted the \"Law of Abandoned Properties\" which confiscated properties of any Armenian who was not present on their property, regardless of the circumstances of the reason. While local courts were authorized to appraise the value of any property and provide an avenue for property owners to make claims, the law prohibited the use of any power of attorney by absent property holders, preventing them from filing suit without returning to the country. In addition, the defendant in the case would be the state of Turkey which had created specially tasked committees to deal with each case.\n\nIn addition to this law, the Turkish government continued revoking the citizenship of many people with a law on 23 May 1927 which stated that \"Ottoman subjects who during the War of Independence took no part in the National movement, kept out of Turkey and did not return from 24 July 1923 to the date of the publication of this law, have forfeited Turkish nationality.\" Additionally, a further law passed on 28 May 1928 stipulated that those who had lost their citizenship would be expelled from Turkey, not allowed to return, and that their property would be confiscated by the Turkish government, and Turkish migrants would be resettled in the properties. \n\nIn the preparation for possible entry into World War II, the Turkish government introduced a tax, the Varlık Vergisi, which disproportionately targeted Turkey's non-Muslim residents. Many Armenians, and other non-Muslim populations, were forced to sell their property at significantly reduced prices through public auctions in order to pay for the sudden tax hike or have the properties confiscated by the state. In addition, the law allowed authorities to confiscate the property of any relative of a taxed person in order to pay the tax. From this tax, the Turkish government collected 314,900,000 liras or about US$270 million (80% of the state budget) from the confiscation of non-Muslim assets.\n\nThis period coincided with further confiscations of private property belonging to Armenians. Special commissions were created to separate the evictions of non-Muslims from others. The investigators of this commission usually expedited the evacuation and eventual confiscation of the non-Muslim property in question.\n\nThe Varlık Vergisi was followed by the Istanbul pogrom a few years later, where an organized mob attacked Greeks and Armenians on 6–7 September 1955. The material damage was considerable, with damage to 5317 properties (including 4214 homes, 1004 businesses, 73 churches, 2 monasteries, 1 synagogue, and 26 schools). Estimates of the economic cost of the damage range from the Turkish government's estimate of 69.5 million Turkish lira (equivalent to 24.8 million US$), the British estimate of 100 million GBP (about 200 million US$), the World Council of Churches' estimate of 150 million US$, and the Greek government's estimate of 500 million US$. The pogrom eventually lead to an exodus of non-Muslims out of the country, resulting in a significant amount of \"abandoned\" properties. The property left behind by those who fled were confiscated by the Turkish state after ten years.\n\nIn the 1960s, new laws were passed, which made it impossible for Armenians to establish new foundations nor to buy or bequeath additional properties. One such law code (Law no. 903) adopted in 1967, along with a second paragraph amended to the Turkish Civil Code (no. 743) declared that, \"The registration of foundations that are in violation of law, morality, tradition or national interests, or that were established to support a political belief, a certain race or members of a minority will not be approved.\" Such laws are considered by legal experts as a violation of articles concerning minority rights found in the Treaty of Laussane, the Turkish constitution, and Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which grants the \"freedom to establish foundations and hold meetings.\" The new amendment and law code became the basis for a new series of confiscations that significantly obstructed the daily lives of Armenians in Turkey.\n\nIn 1974 new legislation was passed that stated that non-Muslim trusts could not own more property than that which had been registered under their name in 1936. As a result, more than 1,400 assets (included churches, schools, residential buildings, hospitals, summer camps, cemeteries, and orphanages) of the Istanbul Armenian community since 1936 were retrospectively classified as illegal acquisitions and seized by the state. Under the legislation, the Turkish courts rendered Turkish citizens of non-Turkish descent as \"foreigners\", thereby placing them under the same legal regulations of any foreign company or property holder living outside of Turkey who was not a Turkish national. The provisions further provided that foundations belonging to non-Muslims are a potential \"threat\" to national security. The process involved returning any property acquired after 1936, whether through lottery, will, donation, or purchase, to their former owners or inheritors. If former owners had died leaving no inheritors, the property was to be transferred to specified governmental agencies such as the Treasury or the Directorate General of Foundations.\n\nOn 11 June 1986, the laws concerning \"abandoned\" properties during the Armenian Genocide were abrogated, which ended 73 years of effectiveness. Throughout the Republican period, the laws continued to provide a legal basis for the confiscation of additional property that belonged to the deportees. Though the laws were abolished in 1986, the General Directorate of Land Registry and Cadastre (Turkish: Tapu ve Kadastro Genel Müdürlüğü) issued an order on 29 June 2001 which effectively transferred all the leftover \"abandoned\" properties to the government. The order also forbid the disclosure of any information regarding the title or the documentation of the properties. As a result, the owners or their heirs could not make claims to the property since it was now securely sanctioned under Turkish law and had become property of the state.\n\nTerminology of former legislation and civil codes have not significantly changed since the 1960s and 70s, ultimately subjugating the assets and properties of the Armenian community to further confiscations. Though terminology has slightly changed, the current civil codes still have enough executive powers to confiscate property under the basis of protecting the \"national unity\" of the Republic of Turkey.\nDue to such regulations and law codes, no church was ever constructed in the history of the Republic of Turkey. All churches in existence today were built before the establishment of the Republic in 1923. A permit for the construction of a Syriac church was granted in December 2012, however, it was refused by the Assyrian community since the land used to be a Latin cemetery.\n\nIn an attempt by the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) to comply with European Union standards, the opening up of the Ottoman land registry and deed records to the public were considered. However, on 26 August 2005, the National Security Committee of the Turkish Armed Forces forbid such attempts by stating:\nOn 15 June 2011, the United States House Foreign Affairs Committee of the 112th Congress passed House Resolution 306 by a vote of 43 to one which demanded from the Republic of Turkey \"to safeguard its Christian heritage and to return confiscated church properties.\" Turkish-American organizations attempted to block the bill from passing but ultimately failed.\n\nAfter two years of research, the Hrant Dink Foundation published a book, some 400 pages long, describing the current situation of seized assets and properties of the Armenian community. With the help of government deed and title records, the members of the Hrant Dink foundation have uncovered the title records of all the properties owned by various foundations and have produced the book replete with photographs, charts, maps, and other illustrations which describe the seized properties and assets and its current status. The Hrant Dink foundation states that 661 properties in Istanbul alone were confiscated by the Turkish government, leaving only 580 of the 1,328 properties owned by the 53 Armenian foundations (schools, churches, hospitals, etc.). The current circumstances of the remaining 87 could not be determined. Out of the 661 confiscated properties, 143 (21.6%) have been returned to the Armenian foundation.\n\nThe Hrant Dink foundation researched confiscations and provided descriptions, photographs and boundary lines on its online interactive mapping resource.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16037758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16037758", "title": "Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic", "text": "Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic\n\nThe Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic () is a specialized type of court which primarily works to protect the people in the Czech Republic against violations of the Constitution by either the legislature, government or by any other subject that violates people's constitutional rights and freedoms. In this respect, it is similar in functionality to the US Supreme Court, but is distinct from the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic. Of all the various levels of the Czech Judiciary it is the one created with the greatest specificity in the constitution.\n\nThe decisions of the Court are final, cannot be overturned and are considered a source of law, similar to precedents in a common law system.\n\nAlthough the Court itself was established only in 1993, its Czechoslovak predecessor was already provided for in the Constitution of 1920, making Czechoslovakia the first country in the world with a system of judicial review by a specialized court (although the court itself first convened after the Austrian one). It was later adopted by many other countries.\n\nThe development of the Czech constitutional tradition went initially hand in hand with that in Austria-Hungary, to which the Czech Crown lands belonged between 1806-1918. The first attempts to establish a system based on constitution were connected with the 1848 Revolution. A number of constitutions were enacted during the Austrian period (April 1848, March 1849, February 1861 all enacted by the king, December 1867 enacted by the Parliament), however these were far from being democratic and did not include the possibility of judicial review of the acts of the Parliament nor the Habsburg sovereigns. Although the attempt to democratize the Habsburg monarchy failed at the time, it marked the beginning of Czech political activization which ultimately brought about personalities such as Karel Kramář or Tomáš Masaryk, who later took part in the establishment of the First Czechoslovak Republic and its constitutional tradition.\n\nFollowing the establishment of Czechoslovakia, the Interim Constitution was passed in November 1918 (Act No. 37/1918 Coll.), which did not yet establish the Constitutional court.\n\nMeanwhile the works on the Czechoslovak constitution were at full pace. The new constitution was influenced by the following models:\nThe new constitution was further influenced by the Czech humanist tradition (Jan Hus, Petr Chelčický, Jan Amos Komenský, František Palacký, František Rieger, Tomáš Masaryk) as well as the peace conferences which took place after the first world war.\n\nThe new constitution was accepted on February 2, 1920 as Act No. 121/1920 Coll. With this constitution Czechoslovakia became the first country in the world to adopt a system where a review of acts of the national parliament's constitutionality was possible by a special court - the Constitutional Court (while in USA and Australia this power was vested in the hands of their Supreme Courts already before and the Austrian Constitutional Court already had the power to examine laws of the States of Austria in 1919). Later, a similar system of judicial review on national level was adopted by Austria (1920) which came into force before the Czechoslovak Constitutional Court took up its duties. It later became generally known as the \"Austrian System\", being taken over by many other countries e.g. Liechtenstein (1925), Greece (1927), Spain (1931), Ireland (1937) etc. The Constitutional Court of Czechoslovakia itself came into existence in the assembly hall of the presidium of the Council of Ministers at Prague Castle on 17 November 1921.\n\nThe Constitutional Court had the jurisdiction to decide about constitutionality of the enactments of the Republic, of Assembly of the Carpathian Ruthenia (this was only theoretical, as the presumption of its autonomy was not reached until 1938) and of legal measures of Permanent Committee (which consisted of 16 members of the Chamber of the Deputies and 8 Senators and took action in urgent cases when the Parliament was not in session). The motions for review of enactments could be brought by the Supreme Court, Supreme Administrative Court, Chamber of Deputies, Senate and the Assembly of the Carpathian Ruthenia, while the legal measures of the Permanent Committee were subject to automatic review immediately after being passed. Unlike today, the Court did not have the jurisdiction to hear citizens' individual petitions.\n\nThe Court was active in the period of 1921-1931, when it reviewed a number of legal measures of the Permanent Committee, however no motions for review of enactments were ever brought before it. Although the legal basis for the Court and its jurisdiction remained unchanged, it was vacant and inactive between 1932-1937. The Chief Justice for the period of 1938-1939 was Jaroslav Krejčí.\n\nAlthough the Constitution remained in force during the German Nazi occupation and after the war, the rights it was providing for became only theoretical and the Constitutional Court had not convened during and after the second world war.\n\nDue to extermination of a large number of Czechoslovakian elites by the Nazi Germans, disillusion with the Western countries following the Munich Agreement and high influence of the Soviet Union, which liberated almost whole of the country, the post-war era may be characterized by the growing influence of the communists, which culminated in February 1948 Communist coup. A new constitution was adopted in May 1948. It was essentially a 1920 constitution modified by socialist ideas in order to serve the ideology of the communist party. For example, the list of fundamental rights was extended to cover also social and cultural rights, but on the other hand the right of a private ownership was limited. Formally, the constitution was democratic and influenced by the idea of \"People's Democracy\". In reality, however, democracy was curbed with the communist party controlling the state and the fundamental rights not being observed by the authorities.\n\nThe 1948 constitution did not adopt the Constitutional Court.\n\nAnother constitution was adopted in 1960, being influenced mostly by the Soviet constitution of 1936. It legally established the \"leading role\" of the communist party, declared Marxism-Leninism as the state's leading ideology, removed the division of power. This constitution was to a large degree modified in 1968, establishing Czech and Slovak Socialist Republics within the Czechoslovakia as a federative socialist state. The 1968 constitution re-introduced the Constitutional Court, or in fact three of them - one for the Federation and two for the Republics. The Federal Constitutional Court was to have a jurisdiction over constitutionality of federal enactments and disputes over competencies between the Federation and the Republics. The Constitution anticipated adoption of an enactment dealing in detail with Constitutional Court, but that did not happen until 1991, precluding the factual establishment of the Court. Officially the need for the Court had not arisen as the presumed disputes over competencies between the Federation and the Republics never took place.\n\nThe first changes to the Constitution took place already during the Velvet Revolution. On November 30, 1989, the leading role of the communist party was abolished as well as mentioning of the Marxism-Leninism. A number of other novelizations led to democratization of the constitution. In 1991 the Charter of Fundamental Rights was adopted as a part of the Constitutional order, which was followed by an implementing enactment dealing with the Constitutional Court, as presumed by the 1968 constitution.\n\nThe Constitutional Court of Czechoslovakia was thus re-established, although only for a brief period of time in 1992 before the dissolution of Czechoslovakia. The dissolution itself was actually carried out by a constitutional act (No. 542/1992 Coll.).\n\nOn 16 December 1992 a new Constitution (Act No. 1/1993 Coll.) and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Basic Freedoms (Act No. 2/1993 Coll.) were adopted. Article 83-89 of the Constitution established the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic, the processes of which are further elaborated in Act No. 182/1993 Coll..\n\nThe major part of the court's workload consists of individual petitions of citizen's alleged violations of their constitutional rights after all other remedies were exhausted (including appeals to the Supreme Court or the Supreme Administrative Court).\n\nAccording to Article 87 of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court shall rule on:\n\nAlso, in cases when an already abolished law contrary to the constitutional order should be applied by a general court, it shall submit the issue to the Constitutional Court (Art. 95 par. 2).\n\nThe Court is composed of 15 justices who are named for a renewable period of 10 years by the President subject to the Senate's approval. The justices enjoy criminal immunity and may be prosecuted only subject to the approval of the Senate.\n\nThe plenum of the court is quorate when at least 10 justices are present. A majority of at least 9 justices must be reached in order to repeal a law, to impeach the President or to adopt a legal opinion differentiating from one previously held. Other matters are decided by senates consisting of three justices.\n\n"}
{"id": "56799267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56799267", "title": "Curfew Pass", "text": "Curfew Pass\n\nA \"Curfew Pass\" or \"Movement and Curfew Pass\" is a document issued by an empowered authority such as police or military for public officials or civilians to travel within or to and from an area under an imposed curfew by the said authority.\n"}
{"id": "37272272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37272272", "title": "Czech and Slovak Transatlantic Award", "text": "Czech and Slovak Transatlantic Award\n\nThe Czech and Slovak Transatlantic Award (CSTA) is an original initiative of the Jagello 2000 Association for Euro-Atlantic Cooperation from the Czech Republic and implemented jointly by Jagello 2000 and the Slovak Atlantic Commission since 2012.\n\nThe CSTA awardees are chosen by the Honorary Committee, created for this purpose from distinguished personalities from the diplomatic, political and military areas of the Czech and Slovak Republics. Members of the Honorary Committee are:\n\nOriginal creation of the renowned Slovak glass-designer Patrik Illo, the Czech and Slovak Transatlantic Award symbolizes the transatlantic link by opposite side edges through transparent glass.\n"}
{"id": "12169459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12169459", "title": "Danish constitutional and electoral age referendum, 1953", "text": "Danish constitutional and electoral age referendum, 1953\n\nA constitutional and electoral age referendum was held in Denmark on 28 May 1953. Both proposals were approved by voters, leading to both a new constitution taking effect on 5 June, and the electoral age being lowered from 25 to 23 years, also starting on 5 June. Voter turnout was 59.1% for the constitution question and 57.1% for the voting age question.\n\nAccording to the previous constitution of 1915, with changes from 1920, in order for a new constitution to pass, it must first be passed in one Rigsdag, which must then be disbanded, a new parliamentary election called, and the new parliament must then also pass the constitution, in unchanged form; and finally, a majority of voters in a referendum, with a requirement of at least 45% turnout, must also pass the proposed constitution. When the referendum took place on May 28, 1953, it concluded the last of these three steps, and the constitution could take effect on June 5.\n\nThe Ministry of Education of Denmark lists the changes from the previous constitution as follows:\n\nOne of the proposed changes in the new constitution was that the electoral age would now be decided by laws that required a binding referendum. Prior to the 1953 referendum, the electoral age was 25 years. The electoral age portion of the referendum asked whether the new electoral age should be 23 or 21 years, with 30.0% voting for 23 years and 25.0% for 21 years, thus passing the former of the two.\n"}
{"id": "216331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216331", "title": "Duress in American law", "text": "Duress in American law\n\nIn jurisprudence, duress or coercion refers to a situation whereby a person performs an act as a result of violence, threat, or other pressure against the person. \"Black's Law Dictionary\" (6th ed.) defines duress as \"any unlawful threat or coercion used... to induce another to act [or not act] in a manner [they] otherwise would not [or would]\". Duress is pressure exerted upon a person to coerce that person to perform an act they ordinarily would not perform. The notion of duress must be distinguished both from undue influence in the civil law. In criminal law, duress and necessity are different defenses.\n\nDuress has two aspects. One is that it negates the person's consent to an act, such as sexual activity or the entering into a contract; or, secondly, as a possible legal defense or justification to an otherwise unlawful act. A defendant utilizing the duress defense admits to breaking the law, but claims that he/she is not liable because, even though the act broke the law, it was only performed because of extreme unlawful pressure. In criminal law, a duress defense is similar to a plea of guilty, admitting partial culpability, so that if the defense is not accepted then the criminal act is admitted.\n\nDuress or coercion can also be raised in an allegation of rape or other sexual assault to negate a defense of consent on the part of the person making the allegation.\n\nA defendant who raises a defense of duress has actually done everything to constitute the \"actus reus\" of the crime, and has the \"mens rea\" because they intended to do it to avoid some threatened or actual harm. Thus, some degree of culpability already attaches to the defendant for what was done. \n\nIn criminal law, the defendant's motive for breaking the law is generally irrelevant unless a defendant is raising an affirmative defense allowed for by law. (Duress may or may not be allowed as an affirmative defence for some particular charge -- in particular, it is generally forbidden for murder, and many jurisdictions also forbid it for sexual assault. \"Malum in se\" offences, generally, are less likely to recognise duress as a defence than \"malum prohibitum\" offences.)\n\nA successful affirmative defence means not that a criminal act was justified, but that the act was not criminal at all. But if no affirmative defence of duress is available, then the duress may be considered as justifying a lighter sentence, typically in proportion to the degree of duress. If the duress is extreme enough, for example, the defendant might be found guilty of murder but given a minimal, or even trivial, sentence.\n\nIn some rare cases, a successful argument of duress -- even when not an affirmative defence -- might result in the jury nullifying the charge by refusing to convict.\n\nThe basis of the defense is that the duress actually overwhelmed the defendant's will and would also have overwhelmed the will of a person of ordinary courage (a hybrid test requiring both subjective evidence of the accused's state of mind, and an objective confirmation that the failure to resist the threats was reasonable), thus rendering the entire behavior involuntary. Thus, the liability should be reduced or discharged, making the defense one of exculpation.\n\nThe extent to which this defense should be allowed, if at all, is a matter of public policy. A state may say that no threat should force a person to deliberately break the law, particularly if this breach will cause significant loss or damage to a third person. Alternatively, a state may take the view that even though people may have ordinary levels of courage, they may nevertheless be coerced into agreeing to break the law and this human weakness should have some recognition in the law.\n\nA mutant of duress involves hostage taking, where a person is forced to commit a criminal act under the threat, say, that their family member or close associate will be immediately killed should they refuse (commonly known as a Tiger kidnapping). This has been raised in some cases of ransom, where a person commits theft or embezzlement under orders from a kidnapper in order to secure a family member's life and freedom. However, duress is not a complete defense to all crimes. For example, the general rule, both at common law and today, is that duress is never a defense to murder; that is, one is never justified in killing another innocent person even if one's own life has been threatened, although this part may be questioned when multiple people are threatened with death if the defendant does not kill a single or fewer people than threatened (such a situation is similar to the trolley problem).\n\nFor duress to qualify as a defense, four requirements must be met:\n\nA person may also raise a duress defense when force or violence is used to compel him to enter into a contract, or to discharge.\n\n\"Duress\" in the context of contract law is a common law defence brought about when one of the parties to the contract enjoyed an ascendant position in relation to the other party and abused that position by subjecting the other to \"threats.\" A party who has entered into a contract under duress is entitled to rescind or set aside the contract, rendering it voidable (in equity).\n\nDuress is a threat of harm made to compel someone to do something against their will or judgment; especially a wrongful threat made by one person to compel a manifestation of seeming assent by another person to a transaction without real volition. - Black's Law Dictionary (8th ed. 2004)\n\nDuress in contract law falls into two broad categories:\n\nProfessor Ronald Griffin, Florida Agricultural & Mechanical College of Law, Orlando, FL, puts physical duress simply: \"Your money or your life.\" \nIn \"Barton v Armstrong\", a decision of the Privy Council, Armstrong (defendant) sought to coerce Barton (plaintiff) into executing a deed relating to the sale of certain companies by threatening to have him murdered. While the plaintiff took the threats seriously, other business reasons existed for signing the contract. An innocent party wishing to set aside a contract for duress to the person need only prove that the threat was made and that it was a reason for entry into the contract. Furthermore, once it is established that the threat was made, the onus lies on the person who made the threat to prove that the threat made no contribution to the plaintiff's decision to enter the agreement.\n\nCommon law took a narrow view of the concept of duress in that it was concerned with actual or threatened violence to the person or unlawful imprisonment. Equity, however, adopted a broader \"fusion\" view of what sort of pressure could constitute coercion for purposes of relief and has since prevailed. \n\nIn such cases, one party refuses to release the goods belonging to the other party until the other party enters into a contract with them. For example, in \"Hawker Pacific Pty Ltd v Helicopter Charter Pty Ltd\" (1991) 22 NSWLR 298, the contract was set aside after Hawker Pacific's threats to withhold the helicopter from the plaintiff unless further payments were made for repairing a botched paint job.\n\nEconomic duress is the use of unlawful economic pressure to compel a party to a contract to agree to demands which they would not have otherwise.\n\nIn criminal law, when a person is found legally insane because they believed God ordered them to do the crime (\"deific-decree\"), one interpretation of the insanity is that they acted under a delusion of duress by God.\n\n"}
{"id": "5593595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5593595", "title": "Earth structure", "text": "Earth structure\n\nAn earth structure is a building or other structure made largely from soil. Since soil is a widely available material, it has been used in construction since prehistoric times.\nIt may be combined with other materials, compressed and/or baked to add strength. \nSoil is still an economical material for many applications, and may have low environmental impact both during and after construction.\n\nEarth structure materials may be as simple as mud, or mud mixed with straw to make cob. Sturdy dwellings may be also built from sod or turf. Soil may be stabilized by the addition of lime or cement, and may be compacted into rammed earth. Construction is faster with pre-formed adobe or mudbricks, compressed earth blocks, earthbags or fired clay bricks.\n\nTypes of earth structure include earth shelters, where a dwelling is wholly or partly embedded in the ground or encased in soil. Native American earth lodges are examples. Wattle and daub houses use a \"wattle\" of poles interwoven with sticks to provide stability for mud walls. Sod houses were built on the northwest coast of Europe, and later by European settlers on the North American prairies. Adobe or mud-brick buildings are built around the world and include houses, apartment buildings, mosques and churches. Fujian Tulous are large fortified rammed earth buildings in southeastern China that shelter as many as 80 families. Other types of earth structure include mounds and pyramids used for religious purposes, levees, mechanically stabilized earth retaining walls, forts, trenches and embankment dams.\n\nSoil is created from rock that has been chemically or physically weathered, transported, deposited and precipitated.\nSoil particles include sand, silt and clay. Sand particles are the largest at in diameter and clay the smallest at less than in diameter.\nBoth sand and silt are mostly inert rock particles, including quartz, calcite, feldspar and mica.\n\nClays typically are phyllosilicate minerals with a sheet-like structure.\nThe very small clay particles interact with each other physically and chemically. \nEven a small proportion of clay affects the physical properties of the soil much more than might be expected.\nClays such as kaolinite do not expand or contract when wetted or dried, and are useful for brick-making. \nOthers, such as smectites, expand or contract considerably when wet or dry, and are not suitable for building.\n\nLoam is a mix of sand, silt and clay in which none predominates. \nSoils are given different names depending on the relative proportions of sand, silt and clay such as \"Silt Loam\", \"Clay Loam\" and \"Silty Clay\".\nLoam construction, the subject of this article, referred to as adobe construction when it uses unfired clay bricks, is an ancient building technology. It was used in the early civilizations of the Mediterranean, Egypt and Mesopotamia, in the Indus, Ganges and Yellow river valleys, in Central and South America. \nAs of 2005 about 1.5 billion people lived in houses built of loam.\n\nIn recent years, interest in loam construction has revived in the developed world. It is seen as a way to minimize use of fossil fuels and pollution, particularly carbon dioxide, during manufacture, and to create a comfortable living environment through the high mass and high absorption of the material.\nThe two main technologies are stamped or rammed earth, clay or loam, called \"pise de terre\" in French, and adobe, typically using sun-dried bricks made of a mud and straw mixture.\n\nEarth usually requires some sort of processing for use in construction. It may be combined with water to make mud, straw may be added, some form of stabilizing material such as lime or cement may be used to harden the earth, and the earth may be compacted to increase strength.\n\nCoursed mud construction is one of the oldest approaches to building walls. Moist mud is formed by hand to make the base of a wall, and allowed to dry. More mud is added and allowed to dry to form successive courses until the wall is complete. With puddled mud, a hand-made mud form is filled with wetter mud and allowed to dry.\nIn Iran, puddled mud walls are called \"chine\" construction. Each course is about thick, and about high. Typically the technique is used for garden walls but not for house construction, presumably because of concern about the strength of walls made in this way.\nA drawback to the approach is that a lot of time can be spent waiting for each course to dry.\nAnother technique, used in areas where wood is plentiful, is to build a wood frame house and to infill it with mud, primarily to provide insulation. In parts of England a similar technique was used with cob.\n\nCob, sometimes referred to as \"monolithic adobe\", is a natural building material made from soil that includes clay, sand or small stones and an organic material such as straw. Cob walls are usually built up in courses, have no mortar joints and need 30% or more clay in the soil. Cob can be used as in-fill in post-and-beam buildings, but is often used for load bearing walls, and can bear up to two stories. A cob wall should be at least thick, and the ratio of width to height should be no more than one to ten. It will typically be plastered inside and out with a mix of lime, soil and sand. Cob is fireproof, and its thermal mass helps stabilize indoor temperatures. \nTests have shown that cob has some resistance to seismic activity. However, building codes in the developed world may not recognize cob as an approved material.\n\nCut sod bricks, called \"terrone\" in Spanish, can be used to make tough and durable walls. The sod is cut from soil that has a heavy mat of grass roots, which may be found in river bottom lands. It is stood on edge to dry before being used in construction.\nEuropean settlers on the North American Prairies found that the sod least likely to deteriorate due to freezing or rain came from dried sloughs. Turf was once extensively used for the walls of houses in Ireland, Scotland and Iceland, where some turf houses may still be found. A turf house may last fifty years or longer if well-maintained in a cold climate.\nThe Icelanders find that the best quality turf is the \"Strengur\", the top of the grass turf.\n\nClay is usually hard and strong when dry, but becomes very soft when it absorbs water. The dry clay helps hold an earth wall together, but if the wall is directly exposed to rain, or to water leaking down from the roof, it may become saturated and collapse.\nEarth may be \"stabilized\" to make it more weather resistant. The practice of stabilizing earth by adding burnt lime is centuries old.\nPortland cement or bitumen may also be added to earth intended for construction which adds strength, although the stabilized earth is not as strong as fired clay or concrete. Mixtures of cement and lime, or pozzolana and lime, may also be used for stabilization.\n\nPreferably the sand content of the soil will be 65% – 75%. Soils with low clay content, or with no more than 15% non-expansive clay, are suitable for stabilized earth. The clay percentage may be reduced by adding sand, if available.\nIf there is more than 15% clay it may take more than 10% cement to stabilize the soil, which adds to the cost.\nIf earth contains little clay and holds 10% or more cement, it is in effect concrete.\nCement is not particularly environmentally friendly, since the manufacturing process generates large amounts of carbon dioxide.\nLow-density stabilized earth will be porous and weak. The earth must therefore be compacted either by a machine that makes blocks or within the wall using the \"rammed earth\" technique.\n\nRammed earth is a technique for building walls using natural raw materials such as earth, chalk, lime or gravel.\nA rammed earth wall is built by placing damp soil in a temporary form. The soil is manually or mechanically compacted and then the form is removed.\nRammed earth is generally made without much water, and so does not need much time to dry as the building rises. It is susceptible to moisture, so must be laid on a course that stops rising dampness, must be roofed or covered to keep out water from above, and may need protection through some sort of plaster, paint or sheathing.\n\nIn China, rammed earth walls were built by the Longshan people in 2600–1900 BC, during the period when cities first appeared in the region. Thick sloping walls made of rammed earth became a characteristic of traditional Buddhist monasteries throughout the Himalayas and became very common in northern Indian areas such as Sikkim. The technique spread to the Middle East, and to North Africa, and the city of Carthage was built of rammed earth. From there the technology was brought to Europe by the Romans.\nRammed earth structures may be long lasting. Most of the Great Wall of China was made from rammed earth, as was the Alhambra in the Kingdom of Granada. In Northern Europe there are rammed earth buildings up to seven stories high and two hundred years old.\n\nThe Romans made durable concrete strong enough for load-bearing walls. Roman concrete contains a rubble of broken bricks and rocks set in mortar. The mortar included lime and \"pozzolana\", a volcanic material that contributed significantly to its strength. Roman concrete structures such as the Colosseum, completed in 80 AD, still stand.\nTheir longevity may be explained by the fact that the builders used a relatively dry mix of mortar and aggregate and compacted it by pounding it down to eliminate air pockets. Although derived from earth products, concrete structures would not usually be considered earth structures.\n\nMudbricks or Adobe bricks are preformed modular masonry units of sun-dried mud that were invented at different times in different parts of the world as civilization developed. Construction with bricks avoids the delays while each course of puddled mud dries. Wall murals show that adobe production techniques were highly advanced in Egypt by 2500 BC. \nAdobe construction is common throughout much of Africa today. \nAdobe bricks are traditionally made from sand and clay mixed with water to a plastic consistency, with straw or grass as a binder.\nThe mud is prepared, placed in wooden forms, tamped and leveled, and then turned out of the mold to dry for several days. \nThe bricks are then stood on end to air-cure for a month or more.\n\nIn the southwest United States and Mexico adobe buildings had massive walls and were rarely more than two stories high. \nAdobe mission churches were never more than about .\nSince adobe surfaces are fragile, coatings are used to protect them. \nThese coatings, periodically renewed, have included mud plaster, lime plaster, whitewash or stucco.\nAdobe walls were historically made by laying the bricks with mud mortar, which swells and shrinks at the same rate as the bricks when wetted or dried, heated or cooled. Modern adobe may be stabilized with cement and bonded with cement mortars, but cement mortars will cause unstabilized adobe bricks to deteriorate due to the different rates of thermal expansion and contraction.\n\nCompressed earth blocks (CEB) were traditionally made by using a stick to ram soil into a wooden mold. Today they are usually made from subsoil compressed in a hand-operated or powered machine. In the developing world, manual machines can be a cost-effective solution for making uniform building blocks, while the more complex and expensive motorized machines are less likely to be appropriate. \nAlthough labor-intensive, CEB construction avoids the cost of buying and transporting materials.\nBlock-making machines may form blocks that have interlocking shapes to reduce the requirement for mortar.\nThe block may have holes or grooves so rods such as bamboo can be inserted to improve earthquake resistance.\n\nSuitable earth must be used, with enough clay to hold the block together and resist erosion, but not too much expansive clay.\nWhen the block has been made from stabilized earth, which contains cement, the concrete must be given perhaps three weeks to cure.\nDuring this time the blocks should be stacked and kept from drying out by sprinkling water over them. \nThis may be a problem in hot, dry climates where water is scarce.\nClosely stacking the blocks and covering them with a polythene sheet may help reduce water loss.\n\nEarthbag construction is a natural building technique that has evolved from historic military construction techniques for bunkers.\nLocal subsoil of almost any composition can be used, although an adobe mix would be preferable.\nThe soil is moistened so it will compact into a stable structure when packed into woven polypropylene or burlap sacks or tubes. Plastic mesh is sometimes used. Polypropylene (pp) sacks are most common, since they are durable when covered, cheap, and widely available.\nThe bags are laid in courses, with barbed wire between each course to prevent slipping. Each course is tamped after it is laid.\nThe structure in pp bags is similar to adobe but more flexible. With mesh tubing the structure is like rammed earth.\nEarthbags may be used to make dome-shaped or vertical wall buildings. With soil stabilization they may also be used for retaining walls.\n\nThe technique of firing clay bricks in a kiln dates to about 3500 BC. \nFired bricks were being used to build durable masonry across Europe, Asia and North Africa by 1200 BC and still remain an important building material. Modern fired clay bricks are formed from clays or shales, shaped and then fired in a kiln for 8–12 hours at a temperature of 900–1150 °C.\nThe result is a ceramic that is mainly composed of silica and alumina, with other ingredients such as quartz sand. The porosity of the brick depends on the materials and on the firing temperature and duration. The bricks may vary in color depending on the amount of iron and calcium carbonate in the materials used, and the amount of oxygen in the kiln.\nBricks may decay due to crystallization of salts on the brick or in its pores, from frost action and from acidic gases.\n\nBricks are laid in courses bonded with mortar, a combination of Portland cement, lime and sand.\nA wall that is two bricks thick will include stretcher bricks with their long, narrow side exposed and header bricks crossing from side to side. \nThere are various brickwork \"bonds\", or patterns of stretchers and headers, including the English, Dutch and Flemish bonds.\n\nEarth sheltering has been used for thousands of years to make energy-efficient dwellings.\nThere are various configurations. At one extreme, an earth sheltered dwelling is completely underground, with perhaps an open courtyard to provide air and light. \nAn earth house may be set into a slope, with windows or door openings in one or more of its sides, or the building may be on ground level, but with earth mounded against the walls, and perhaps with an earth roof.\n\nPit houses made by Hohokam farmers between 100 and 900 AD, in what is now the southwest of the US, were bermed structures, partially embedded in south-facing slopes. Their successful design was used for hundreds of years.\nAt Matmata, Tunisia, most of the ancient homes were built below ground level, and surrounded courtyards about square.\nThe homes were reached through tunnels. Other examples of subterranean, semi-subterranean or cliff-based dwellings in both hot and cold climates are found in Turkey, northern China and the Himalayas, and the southwest USA. A number of Buddhist monasteries built from earth and other materials into cliff sides or caves in Himalayan areas such as Tibet, Bhutan, Nepal and northern India are often perilously placed. Starting in the 1970s, interest in the technique has revived in developed countries. By setting an earth house into the ground, the house will be cooler in the warm season and warmer in the cool season.\n\nAn earth lodge is a circular building made by some of the Native Americans of North America. \nThey have wood post and beam construction and are dome-shaped.\nA typical structure would have four or more central posts planted in the ground and connected at the top by cross beams. The smoke hole would be left open in the center. Around the central structure there was a larger ring of shorter posts, also connected by cross beams. Rafters radiated from the central cross beams to the outside cross beams, and then split planks or beams formed the slanting or vertical side walls.\nThe structure was covered by sticks and brush or grass, covered in turn by a heavy layer of earth or sod.\nSome groups plastered the whole structure with mud, which dried to form a shell.\nWattle and daub is an old building technique in which vines or smaller sticks are interwoven between upright poles, and then mud mixed with straw and grass is plastered over the wall.\nThe technique is found around the world, from the Nile Delta to Japan, where bamboo was used to make the wattle.\nIn Cahokia, now in Illinois, USA, wattle and daub houses were built with the floor lowered by below the ground. \nA variant of the technique is called \"bajareque\" in Colombia.\nIn prehistoric Britain simple circular wattle and daub shelters were built wherever adequate clay was available.\nWattle and daub is still found as the panels in timber-framed buildings. Generally the walls are not structural, and in interior use the technique in the developed world was replaced by lath and plaster, and then by gypsum wallboard.\n\nEuropean pioneer farmers in the prairies of North America, where there is no wood for construction, often made their first home in a dug-out cave in the side of a hill or ravine, with a covering over the entrance. When they had time, they would build a sod house. The farmer would use a plow to cut the sod into bricks , which were then piled up to form the walls.\nThe sod strips were piled grass-side down, staggered in the same way as brickwork, in three side-by-side rows, resulting in a wall over thick. The sod wall was built around door and window frames, and the corners of the wall were secured by rods driven vertically through them. The roof was made with poles or brush, covered with prairie grass, and then sealed with a layer of sod.\nSod houses were strong and often lasted many years, but they were damp and dirty unless the interior walls were plastered.\nThe roofs tended to leak, and sometimes collapsed in a rainstorm.\n\nThere are innumerable examples of mud brick or adobe building around the world. The walled city of Shibam in Yemen, designated a World Heritage Site in 1982, is known fr its ten-story unreinforced mud-brick buildings.\nThe Djinguereber Mosque of Timbuktu, Mali, was first built at the start of the 14th century AD (8th century AH) from round mud bricks and a stone-mud misture, and was rebuilt several times afterwards, steadily growing in size.\nFurther south in Mali, the Great Mosque of Djenné, a dramatic example of Sahel mudbrick architecture. was built in 1907, based on the design of an earlier Great Mosque first built on the site in 1280. Mudbrick requires maintenance, and the fundamentalist ruler Seku Amadu had let the previous mosque collapse.\n\nThe Casa Grande Ruins, now a national monument in Arizona protected by a modern roof, is a massive four-story adobe structure built by Hohokam people between 1200 and 1450 AD.\nThe first European to record the great house was a Jesuit priest, Father Eusebio Kino, who visited the site in 1694. \nAt that time it had long been abandoned.\nBy the time a temporary roof was installed in 1903 the adobe building had been standing empty and unmaintained for hundreds of years.\n\nHuaca de la Luna in what is now northern Peru is a large adobe temple built by the Moche people. The building went through a series of construction phases, growing eventually to a height of about , with three main platforms, four plazas and many smaller rooms and enclosures. The walls were covered by striking multi-colored murals and friezes; those visible today date from about 400–610 AD.\n\nA Fujian Tulou is a type of rural dwelling of the Hakka people in the mountainous areas in southeastern Fujian, China.\nThey were mostly built between the 13th and the 20th centuries. \nA tulou is a large, enclosed and fortified earth building, rectangular or circular, with very thick load-bearing rammed earth walls between three and five stories high.\nA toulou might house up to 80 families. Smaller interior buildings are often enclosed by these huge peripheral walls which can contain halls, storehouses, wells and living areas.\nThe structure resembles a small fortified city.\nThe walls are formed by compacting earth mixed with stone, bamboo, wood and other readily available materials, and are to thick. \nThe result is a well-lit, well-ventilated, windproof and earthquake-proof building that is warm in winter and cool in summer.\n\nZiggurats were elevated temples constructed by the Sumerians between the end of the 4th millennium BC and the 2nd millennium BC, rising in a series of terraces to a temple up to above ground level. The Ziggurat of Ur contained about three million bricks, none more than in length, so construction would have been a huge project.\nThe largest ziggurat was in Babylon, and is thought by some to be the Tower of Babel mentioned in the Bible. It was destroyed by Alexander the Great and only the foundations remain, but originally it stood high on a base about square.\nSun-dried bricks were used for the interior and kiln-fired bricks for the facing. \nThe bricks were held together by clay or bitumen.\n\nMany pre-Columbian Native American societies of ancient North America built large pyramidal earth structures known as platform mounds. Among the largest and best-known of these structures is Monks Mound at the site of Cahokia in what became Illinois, completed around 1100 AD, which has a base larger than that of the Great Pyramid at Giza. Many of the mounds underwent multiple episodes of mound construction at periodic intervals, some becoming quite large. They are believed to have played a central role in the mound-building peoples' religious life and documented uses include semi-public chief's house platforms, public temple platforms, mortuary platforms, charnel house platforms, earth lodge/town house platforms, residence platforms, square ground and rotunda platforms, and dance platforms.\n\nThe Pyramid of the Sun in Teotihuacan, Mexico, was started in 100 AD. \nThe stone-faced structure contains two million tons of rammed earth.\n\nEarthworks are engineering works created through moving or processing quantities of soil or unformed rock. \nThe material may be moved to another location and formed into a desired shape for a purpose.\nLevees, embankments and dams are types of earthwork.\nA levee, floodbank or stopbank is an elongated natural ridge or artificially constructed dirt fill wall that regulates water levels. It is usually earthen and often runs parallel to the course of a river in its floodplain or along low-lying coastlines.\n\nMechanically stabilized earth (MSE) retaining walls may be used for embankments.\nMSE walls combine a concrete leveling pad, wall facing panels, coping, soil reinforcement and select backfill.\nA variety of designs of wall facing panels may be used.\nAfter the leveling pad has been laid and the first row of panels has been placed and braced, the first layer of earth backfill is brought in behind the wall and compacted.\nThe first set of reinforcements is then laid over the earth.\nThe reinforcements, which may be tensioned polymer or galvanized metal strips or grids, are attached to the facing panels.\nThis process is repeated with successive layers of panels, earth and reinforcements.\nThe panels are thus tied into the earth embankment to make a stable structure with balanced stresses.\n\nAlthough construction using the basic principles of MSE has a long history, MSE was developed in its current form in the 1960s. The reinforcing elements used can vary but include steel and geosynthetics. The term MSE is usually used in the US to distinguish it from \"Reinforced Earth\", a trade name of the Reinforced Earth Company, but elsewhere Reinforced Soil is the generally accepted term. MSE construction is relatively fast and inexpensive, and although labor-intensive, it does not demand high levels of skill. It is therefore suitable for developing as well as developed countries.\n\nEarth has been used to construct fortifications for thousands of years, including strongholds and walls, often protected by ditches.\nAerial photography in Europe has revealed traces of earth fortifications from the Roman era, and later medieval times.\nOffa's Dyke is a huge earthwork that stretches along the disputed border between England and Wales.\nLittle is known about the period or the builder, King Offa of Mercia, who died in 796 AD.\nAn early timber and earth fortification might later be succeeded by a brick or stone structure on the same site.\n\nTrenches were used by besieging forces to approach a fortification while protected from missiles.\nSappers would build \"saps\", or trenches, that zig-zagged towards the fortress being attacked.\nThey piled the excavated dirt to make a protective wall or gabion. The combined trench depth and gabion height might be . \nSometimes the sap was a tunnel, dug several feet below the surface. Sappers were highly skilled and highly paid due to the extreme danger of their work.\n\nIn the American Civil War (1861−1865) trenches were used for defensive positions throughout the struggle, but played an increasingly important role in the campaigns of the last two years.\nMilitary earthworks perhaps culminated in the vast network of trenches built during World War I (1914−1918) that stretched from Switzerland to the North Sea by the end of 1914.\nThe two lines of trenches faced each other, manned by soldiers living in appalling conditions of cold, damp and filth.\nConditions were worst in the Allied trenches. The Germans were more willing to accept the trenches as long-term positions, and used concrete blocks to build secure shelters deep underground, often with electrical lighting and heating.\n\nAn embankment dam is a massive artificial water barrier. It is typically created by the emplacement and compaction of a complex semi-plastic mound of various compositions of soil, sand, clay and/or rock. It has a semi-permanent natural waterproof covering for its surface, and a dense, waterproof core. This makes such a dam impervious to surface or seepage erosion.\nThe force of the impoundment creates a downward thrust upon the mass of the dam, greatly increasing the weight of the dam on its foundation. This added force effectively seals and makes waterproof the underlying foundation of the dam, at the interface between the dam and its stream bed. \nSuch a dam is composed of fragmented independent material particles. \nThe friction and interaction of particles binds the particles together into a stable mass rather than by the use of a cementing substance.\n\nThe Syncrude Mildred Lake Tailings Dyke in Alberta, Canada, is an embankment dam about long and from high. By volume of fill, as of 2001 it was believed to be the largest earth structure in the world.\n\nRegions with low seismic risk are safe for most earth buildings, but historic construction techniques often cannot resist even medium earthquake levels effectively because of earthen buildings' three highly undesirable qualities as a seismic building material: being relatively 'weak, heavy and brittle'. However, earthen buildings can be built to resist seismic loads.\n\nKey factors to improved seismic performance are soil strength, construction quality, robust layout and seismic reinforcement.\n\nStronger soils make stronger walls. Adobe builders can test cured blocks for strength by dropping from a specific height or by breaking them with a lever. Builders using immediate techniques like earthbag, cob, or rammed earth may prefer approximate crushing tests on smaller samples that can be oven-dried and crushed under a small lever.\n\nBuilders must understand construction processes and be able to produce consistent quality for strong buildings.\n\nRobust layout means buildings more square than elongated, and symmetrical not L-shaped, as well as no 'soft' first stories (stories with large windows, buildings on unbraced columns). New Zealand's earthen building guidelines check for enough bracing wall length in each of the two principal directions, based on wall thickness, story height, bracing wall spacing, and the roof, loft and second story weight above earthen walls.\n\nBuilding techniques that are more ductile than brittle, like the contained earth type of earthbag, or tire walls of earthships, may better avoid collapse than brittle unreinforced earth. Contained gravel base courses may add base isolation potential.\n\nWall containment can be added to techniques like adobe to resist loss of material that leads to collapse. Confined masonry is effective for adobe against quake forces of 0.3 g may be useful with earthen masonry.\n\nMany types of reinforcement can increase wall strength, such as plastic or wire mesh and reinforcing rods of steel or fiberglass or bamboo. Earth resists compression well but is weak when twisted. Tensile reinforcement must span potential damage points and be well-anchored to increase out-of-plane stability. Bond beams at wall tops are vital and must be well attached to walls.\n\nBuilders should be aware that organic reinforcements embedded in walls may be destroyed before the building is retired. Attachment details of reinforcement are critical to resist higher forces. Best adobe shear strength came from horizontal reinforcement attached directly to vertical rebar spanning from footing to bond beam.\n\nInterlaced wood in earthen walls reduces quake damage if wood is not damaged by dry rot or insects. Timberlacing includes finely webbed Dhajji, and other types.\n\n"}
{"id": "4543721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4543721", "title": "Firearm legislation in South Africa", "text": "Firearm legislation in South Africa\n\nIn South Africa, the Firearms Control Act 60 of 2000 regulates the ownership of firearms by civilians. Ownership of a firearm is conditional on a competency test and several other factors, including background checking of the applicant, inspection of an owner's premises, and licensing of the weapon by the police introduced in July 2004. The process is currently undergoing review, as the police are at present, not able to adequately or within reasonable time, process either competency certification, new licences or renewal of existing licences. Minimum waiting period used to exceed 2 years from date of application. The Central Firearms Registry implemented a turnaround strategy that has significantly improved the processing period of new licences. The maximum time allowed to process a licence application is now 90 days.\n\nIn South Africa, citizens or permanent residents (over the age of 21 years generally, but if need can be shown then technically no age limit applies) who wish to own firearms are required to obtain a licence per individual firearm, and may own a maximum amount of only four firearms, and a maximum of 200 rounds of ammunition per license. Should the individual acquire 'dedicated status' conferred by registered shooting club, the individual can theoretically license an unlimited amount of firearms and ammunition limits also then fall away.\n\nThis licence under chapter 6 section 13, allows the holder to possess any: \nThe Registrar may issue a licence under this section to any natural person who—\n\nThis licence under chapter 6 section 14, allows the holder to possess any:\nThe Registrar may issue a licence in terms of this section to any:\n\nThis licence under chapter 6 section 15, allows the holder to possess any:\nThe Registrar may issue a licence in terms of this section to any:\n\nThis licence under chapter 6 section 16, allows the holder to possess any:\nThe Registrar may issue a licence in terms of this section to any:\nThis licence under chapter 6 section 16\n\nThis permit allows the holder to possess any:\n\nThis licence allows the holder to possess any:\nThe Registrar may issue a licence in terms of this section to:\n\nProhibited firearms are:\n\nSemi-automatic firearms are not prohibited under law. However, semi-automatic long guns are only permitted with a business licence, restricted firearms licence for self-defence, and dedicated hunting and shooting licences. There is no official magazine capacity restriction for semi-automatic rifles.\n\nHandguns of all firing actions (except fully automatic) are legal under all licences. There is no magazine capacity restriction for handguns.\n\nCarrying legally owned firearms in South Africa is legal under all licence types and requires no additional permit. No person may carry a firearm in a public place unless the firearm is carried:\n\nA firearm contemplated in subsection \n\nIn South Africa, private guns are prohibited by law as per the Control of Access to Public Premises and Vehicles Act of 1985 (CAPPVA), in government buildings. The Firearms Control Act of 2000 does allow for firearm-free zones, but this must not be confused with the mandate of the CAPPVA of 1985, which has effectively made all government buildings and vehicles firearm-free by law without the input of the FCA which came about almost two decades later. According to the FCA under section 140, firearm-free zones can be applied for and must be granted FFZ status by the minister. To date, there have been no firearm-free zone declared by the minister.\n\nThe Firearm Control Act 60 of 2000 & Regulations, together with amendments and regulations form the legal framework for gun ownership in South Africa. All current firearms owners, approximately 2.6 to 3 million according to the SA Central Firearm Registry (which is less than 6% of the population), are required by the Act to re-register their firearms. Its constitutionality is currently being challenged in two high-profile cases.\n\nThe South African Hunters Association has successfully challenged the transitional provisions to the implementation of the act, meaning that the full implementation of the Act has been placed on hold for several years now. The government has failed to challenge the interim ruling of North Gauteng High Court Judge Bill Prinsloo. The South African Gunowners Association (SAGA) have applied to have Bill Prinsloo's interim judgement confirmed and made permanently binding. Other parties including Gun Owners of South Africa (GOSA) have raised constitutional challenges to aspects of the FCA in particular the government's non-compliance with compensation aspects of the law. The argument is that if a citizen is deprived of property, e.g. the surrender of a firearm, due to compliance with the act, the government must compensate the citizen for lost property, as is provided for in the act.\n\nThe Black Gun Owners Association of South Africa is challenging the loss of revenue and employment, and is seeking compensation for the loss of income. Furthermore, it is challenging the political motivations of the act as Abios Khoele, chairperson of the Black Gun Owners Association, told a press briefing in Johannesburg: \"This government is hell-bent on disarming black people because they've made so many service delivery promises to them which they have not fulfilled. They are scared that if blacks are armed they will turn on the government.\"\n\nIn July 2010, the Black Gun-Owners Association of South Africa (BGOASA), filed a R3.2 Billion lawsuit against the government in regards to the poor implementation of the firearms act, claiming 40,000 Black people were refused firearm licences between 2004 and 2010. which is claimed to have cost 10,000 jobs in the firearms sector and closed 800 shops. Licensing takes over 2 years to process before revenue can be recognised or is arbitrarily dismissed and rejected by the police. These two factors lead to many dealers not being able to maintain their businesses, in light of greatly reduced revenues.\n\nOn 30 November 2012, the Supreme Court of Appeal dismissed an order brought by a group of gun owners that would have compelled the minister of police to pay compensation for all firearms voluntarily surrendered for destruction under the Firearms Control Act 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4051041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4051041", "title": "Freedom of movement for workers in the European Union", "text": "Freedom of movement for workers in the European Union\n\nThe freedom of movement for workers is a policy chapter of the acquis communautaire of the European Union. It is part of the free movement of persons and one of the four economic freedoms: free movement of goods, services, labour and capital. Article 45 TFEU (ex 39 and 48) states that:\n\nThe right to free movement has both 'horizontal' and 'vertical' direct effect, such that a private citizen can invoke the right, without more, in an ordinary court, against other persons, both governmental and non-governmental.\n\nThe Treaty of Paris (1951) establishing the European Coal and Steel Community established a right to free movement for workers in these industries and the Treaty of Rome (1957) provided a right for the free movement of workers within the European Economic Community. The Directive 2004/38/EC on the right to move and reside freely assembles the different aspects of the right of movement in one document, replacing \"inter alia\" the directive 1968/360/EEC. It also clarifies procedural issues, and it strengthens the rights of family members of European citizens using the freedom of movement.\nAccording to the official site of the European Parliament, the explanation of the freedom of workers goes as follows:\nFreedom of movement and residence for persons in the EU is the cornerstone of Union citizenship, which was established by the Treaty of Maastricht in 1992. Its practical implementation in EU law, however, has not been straightforward. It first involved the gradual phasing out, of internal borders under the Schengen agreements, initially in just a handful of Member States. Today, the provisions governing the free movement of persons are laid down in Directive 2004/38/EC on the right of EU citizens and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States. However, the implementation of this directive continues to face many obstacles.\n\nThe meaning of 'worker' is a matter of European Union law. \"The essential feature of an employment relationship, however, is that for a certain period of time a person performs services for and under the direction of another person in return for which he receives remuneration.\"\n\n\nThe right to free movement applies where the legal relationship of employment is entered into in or shall take effect within the territory of the European Community. The precise legal scope of the right to free movement for workers has been shaped by the European Court of Justice and by directives and regulations. Underlying these developments is a tension \"between the image of the Community worker as a mobile unit of production, contributing to the creation of a single market and to the economic prosperity of Europe\" and the \"image of the worker as a human being, exercising a personal right to live in another state and to take up employment there without discrimination, to improve the standard of living of his or her family\".\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the Treaty of Accession 2003, the Treaty of Accession 2005, and the Treaty of Accession 2011, there is a clause about a transition period before workers from the new member states can be employed on an equal, non-discriminatory terms in the old member states. The old member states have the right to impose such transitional period for 2 years, then to decide to extend it for additional 3 years, and then, \"if there is serious proof\" that labour from new member states would be disruptive to the market in the old member states then the period can be extended for the last time for 2 more years.\n\nAccording to the principle of reciprocity, new member states have the right to impose restrictions for all the countries that introduced restrictions and transitional periods to their citizens. Croatia has decided to apply this rule.\n\nThe citizens of the member states of the European Economic Area (which includes the EU) have the same right of freedom of movement in the EEA as EU citizens do within the Union. Additionally, the European Union and Switzerland have concluded a bilateral agreement with the same meaning. The EEA member states outside the EU (Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein) and Switzerland are treated as \"old member states\" in regard to the Treaty of Accession of the new EU members, so they can impose such 2+3+2 transitional periods.\n\nSwitzerland initially granted freedom of movement to EEA citizens in 2005-2011. It briefly reimposed restrictions in 2012-2013, but lifted them again in 2014. A 2014 Referendum directed the Swiss government to impose permanent quotas on residence/work permits for citizens of all EEA countries except Liechtenstein, starting from 2017 at the latest. However, on 22 December 2016, Switzerland and the EU concluded an agreement that a new Swiss law (in response to the referendum) may require Swiss employers to give priority to Swiss-based job seekers (Swiss nationals and foreigners registered in Swiss job agencies) but does not limit the free movement of EU workers to Switzerland.\n\nLiechtenstein imposes a permanent quota for all EEA citizens (issuing 56 \"residence\" permits per year) and a separate quota for Swiss citizens (a further 12 \"residence\" permits per year).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30271257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30271257", "title": "French contract law", "text": "French contract law\n\nFrench contract law is part of the law of obligations found in the \"Code Civil\" dealing with contracts.\n\n"}
{"id": "16932439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16932439", "title": "Government Auditing Standards", "text": "Government Auditing Standards\n\nThe Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS), commonly referred to as the \"Yellow Book\", are produced in the United States by the Government Accountability Office (GAO).\n\nThe standards apply to both financial and performance audits of government agencies. Five general standards are included:\n\n\nThe Yellow Book standards are used by auditors who examine the federal government, including the Government Accountability Office, various offices of Inspectors General, and others. Many local government performance auditors also use the yellow book standards. In addition, CPA firms who perform local government financial audits that include an A-133 \"single audit\" must follow yellow book standards.\n\nIn addition to financial audits, the Yellow Book standards cover Performance Audits, which evaluate the performance of a program or project against defined objectives, such as objectives for efficiency and effectiveness.\n\nThe International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) has developed the INTOSAI Auditing Standards\n\n"}
{"id": "14601377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14601377", "title": "Half-year convention", "text": "Half-year convention\n\nHalf-year convention is a principle of United States taxation law.\n\nCertain property is subject to depreciation. Depreciation allows one to deduct a certain amount of the value or basis of depreciable property per taxable year. A person with depreciable property must know when to start depreciating his/her property. The tax code explains how to do this through, what is called, the applicable convention. \n\nIn tax accounting the half-year convention is the default applicable convention used for federal income tax purposes. Like other conventions, the half-year convention affects the depreciation deduction computation in the year in which the property is placed into service. Using the half-year convention, a taxpayer claims a half of a year's depreciation for the first taxable year, regardless of when the property was actually put into service. It is assumed that the property being depreciated was placed into service at the midpoint of the year. To compensate for this computation, the taxpayer is entitled to another half-year of depreciation at the end of the normal recovery period. § 168(d)(4) of the Federal Income Tax Code defines half-year convention as a convention which treats all property placed in service during any taxable year (or disposed of during any taxable year) as placed in service (or disposed of) on the midpoint of such taxable year.\n\nConsider you are a taxpayer with five-year property worth $50,000. Also, assume that the property depreciates $10,000 per year. \nYear 1- limited to half of the deduction normally entitled in a full year. One \ndeduction of $5,000 allowed at the end of the year, since the property is put into\nservice on July 1, year 1.\n\nYear 2- $10,000 deduction taken. $5,000 deducted on June 30. $5,000 deducted \non December 31.\n\nYear 3- $10,000 deduction taken. $5,000 deducted on June 30. $5,000 deducted \non December 31.\n\nYear 4- $10,000 deduction taken. $5,000 deducted on June 30. $5,000 deducted \non December 31.\n\nYear 5- $10,000 deduction taken. $5,000 deducted on June 30. $5,000 deducted \non December 31.\n\nYear 6- $5,000 deduction taken on June 30.\n\nFor taxpayers, the half-year convention does not require knowledge or proof of the date on which depreciable property is placed in service. Depreciable property is assumed to be placed into service on July 1 of the year in which it is placed into service. The Internal Revenue Service is fond of the rule because without it, taxpayers would be tempted to buy property in the second half of the year and claim full depreciation deductions as if the property were used for the entire year. Taxpayers like the rule because it does not require them to keep track of or prove exactly when depreciable property was placed into service. Nonetheless, the IRS is wary of abuse of the half-year convention. Under § 168(d)(3) of the Federal Income Tax Code, if a taxpayer purchases a lot of depreciable assets in the last three months of the taxable year, they may be forced to use the less beneficial \"mid-quarter convention\". This convention treats such property as placed into service in the midpoint of the last quarter of the taxable year. See § 168(d)(4)(c).\n\n"}
{"id": "9730997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9730997", "title": "Heart balm (German law)", "text": "Heart balm (German law)\n\nThe obsolete German legal concept \"Kranzgeld\" (literally \"wreath money\") is heart balm (see breach of promise) rewarded as compensation to a woman of \"immaculate reputation\" if a man broke off his engagement (or caused it to be broken off e.g. through unfaithfulness) after having had sexual intercourse with her. Immaculate reputation in this context meant mainly virginity, but could also be lost though other factors such as being convicted of a crime.\n\nThe loss of virginity, it was assumed, would diminish the woman's expectations to gain a good match for a husband. Thus, the money is a form of legal damages.\n\nThe term refers to the wreath that a bride traditionally wears at her wedding. In some European cultures, notably Germany, a virgin bride was entitled to wear a wreath of myrtle flowers; a non-virgin bride, on the other hand, had to wear a wreath made of straw.\n\nIn Germany, \"Kranzgeld\" was regulated in paragraph §1300 of the family law, part of the civil code \"Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch\" published in 1896 and taking effect in 1900. After being long considered irrelevant, it was finally abolished on May 4, 1998, when the entire law was renewed, on the occasion of a trial in 1993 where the judges decided the law was outdated. A woman had then tried to sue for 1000 DM (in 2004, roughly €500 or $500), but the request was denied on the grounds of equal rights between man and woman.\n\n"}
{"id": "31524623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31524623", "title": "History of English criminal law", "text": "History of English criminal law\n\nEnglish law did not originally make a distinction between criminal and civil proceedings.\n\nThe first signs of the modern distinction between crimes and civil matters emerged during the Norman conquest of England in 1066. The earliest criminal trials had very little, if any, settled law to apply. However, the civil delictual law was highly developed and consistent in its operation (except where the King wanted to raise money by selling a new form of Writ).\n\nThe development of the state dispensing justice in a court only emerged parallel to or after the emergence of the concept of sovereignty. It was only in the 18th century that European countries began operating police forces. From this point, criminal law had the mechanisms for enforcement.\n\nThe following common law offences once existed, but are now statutory, part of other statutory offences, or completely abolished.\n\nSee also criminal libel for general information about the common law libel offences listed above.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee forgery:\n\nSee personation:\n\nSee cheating:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee Cruelty to animals#United Kingdom and Environmental crime\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19544908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19544908", "title": "Isle of Man Gambling Supervision Commission", "text": "Isle of Man Gambling Supervision Commission\n\nThe Isle of Man Gambling Supervision Commission () (formerly the Gambling Control Commission) is the Gaming Control Board of the Isle of Man. It regulates most forms of gambling in its territory including land based (casino, amusement and slot machines, betting offices and lotteries) and online gambling services.\n\nThe Commission was established in 1962 to protect the interests of gamblers in the Island by ensuring that gambling remains fair and crime-free and that players receive their winnings. It gained worldwide notice with the advent of online gambling in the early 21st Century due to the Isle's reputation as a tax-friendly jurisdiction. It was one of the first jurisdictions to offer legislation to regulate the activity of e-gaming companies and create a secure atmosphere for the gamblers. One of the main documents underpinning the activity of the Commission is the Online Gambling Regulation Act 2001 (OGRA).\n\nThe first Isle of Man licence to operate a live dealer in online casino gaming was given to Celton Manx in February 2009.\n\nThe first Isle of Man sub-licence was issued to Know How Gaming, successfully applied for by licensed Corporate Services Provider, ILS World.\n\nThe Commission deals with:\n\n\nThe Commission can't enforce any operator to return the stakes that have been voluntary placed and lost in a fair game, but it can provide advice and assistance in enforcing the deposited money and the actual winnings.\n\n\nAs the Isle of Man is a British Crown Dependency, they have their own government and legislation, therefore gambling legislation and licensing requirements do not have to be the same as in the UK. Nevertheless, this jurisdiction has very strict rules and therefore remains one of the countries named in the whitelist of the UK Gambling Commission and allowed to advertise their services on the territory of the United Kingdom. This means that the Isle of Man gambling jurisdiction meets the UK government's regulatory requirements regarding the openness, fairness and security of the licensed online gambling operators.\n\nAs of 2010 the Commission licences several well-known online gambling companies. The list of current licence holders of the Gambling Supervision Commission is provided on their website.\n\n"}
{"id": "37063462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37063462", "title": "Italian irredentism in Istria", "text": "Italian irredentism in Istria\n\nThe Italian irredentism in Istria was the political movement supporting the unification to Italy, during the 19th and 20th centuries, of the peninsula of Istria. It is considered closely related to the Italian irredentism in Trieste and Fiume, two cities bordering the peninsula.\n\nIstria, since Roman times, has been an eastern region of Italy, populated by romanized people who were initially related to the Roman Empire and -after the Middle Ages- to the Republic of Venice. In the northeastern section of Istria after Charlemagne started to settle some Slav people, who increased in number inside all Istria mainly after the Turkish invasions of the Balkans (mostly as refugees).\n\nWhen Napoleon defeated Venice in 1797, he found that Istria was populated by Italians on the coast and in the main cities, but the interior was populated mainly by Croats and Slovenians: this dual ethnicity in the same peninsula created a situation of antagonism between Slavs and Italians for the supremacy of Istria, when started the first nationalisms after Napoleon's fall.\n\nSince 1815 Istria was a part of the Austrian monarchy, and Croats/Slovenians and Italians engaged in a nationalistic feud with each other.\n\nAs a consequence Istria has been the theater of an ethnic struggle between them, with bloody nationalistic wars, during the 19th and 20th centuries. The Italian irredentism was actively followed by many Italians in Istria, like the Italian hero Nazario Sauro of Capodistria.\n\nIndeed, between 1918 and 1947 Istria was part of the Kingdom of Italy, but after World War II was part of Yugoslavia. Furthermore, after the war was created the Free Territory of Trieste in north-western Istria: in the years following the division of the territory between Italy and Yugoslavia, up to 40,000 Istrian Italians chose to leave the Yugoslav \"B zone\" and move to the \"A zone\" or Italy for various reasons - some were intimidated into leaving and some simply preferred not to live in Josip Broz Tito's Yugoslavia.\n\nSince the end of World War II the irredentism has totally disappeared in Istria, even because of the Istrian exodus.\n\nActually Istria is populated mainly by Slavs, but nearly 50,000 Italians still live there (divided between the areas of Istria belonging to Croatia, Slovenia and Italy).\n\nAfter Napoleon the idea of \"unification\" of all the Italian people in a \"united Italy\" started to be developed by intellectuals like the Istrian Carlo Combi. As a consequence, the Italian irredentism promoted the unification of those areas not included in the creation of the Kingdom of Italy after 1861: Istria was one of those.\n\nThe Italians in Istria (like Tomaso Luciani of Albona and many other \"patriots\") fully supported the Italian Risorgimento and, because of this, the Austrians saw the Italians as enemies and favored the Slav communities of Istria This fact created a huge emigration of Italians from Istria before World War I, reducing their percentage inside the peninsula inhabitants (they were more than 50% of the total population during Napoleon I's times (when General Marmont did a French census), but at the end of the 19th century they were reduced to only two fifth according to some estimates).\nIndeed, in 1910, the ethnic and linguistic composition was completely mixed and the Italians were reduced to a minority in the Austrian province of Istria (even if huge). According to the Austrian census results, out of 404,309 inhabitants in the \"Margravate of Istria\", 168,116 (41.6%) spoke Croatian, 147,416 (36.5%) spoke Italian, 55,365 (13.7%) spoke Slovene, 13,279 (3.3%) spoke German, 882 (0.2%) spoke Romanian, 2,116 (0.5%) spoke other languages and 17,135 (4.2%) were non-citizens, which had not been asked for their language of communication.\n\nBut scholars like Matteo Bartoli complained that these census percentages included areas outside Istria (like the island of Veglia/Krk and the city of Castua/Kastav, a mostly Croatian town situated north of Fiume and outside the real Istrian peninsula): in his opinion the peninsula of Istria was still with a majority of Italians during World War I.\nGenerally speaking, Italians lived on coast, while Croats and Slovenes lived inland.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century a clash of new ideological movements, Italian irredentism (which claimed Trieste and Istria) and Slovene and Croatian nationalism (developing individual identities in some quarters whilst seeking to unite in a South Slav bid in others), resulted in growing ethnic conflict between Italians one side and Slovenes and Croats in opposition. This was intertwined with the class and religious conflict, as inhabitants of Istrian towns were mostly Italian, whilst Croats or Slovenes largely lived out in the countryside even if in western and southern Istria there were many Italians in the agricultural areas.\n\nCapodistria was the center of the irredentism in Istria. In this city there was the main \"Comitato istriano\" (Istrian Committee for Union to Italy), the meeting place of the most famous Istrian irredentists like Carlo Combi e Antonio Madonizza. From there sailed in 1848 many Istrian Italians to fight for Venice against the Austrians with the \"Legione Istriano-dalmata\".\n\nAfter 1866 -when Venice and the Veneto region were united to Italy- in all Istria there was full support for the irredentism: Tino Gavardo, Pio Riego Gambini and Nazario Sauro where the most renowned between those who promoted the Istrian unification to Italy. Many of them enrolled voluntarily in the Italian Army during World War I against the Austrian Empire. Someone was captured and hanged by the Austrians, like the Italian national hero Nazario Sauro in August 1916.\n\nIn 1913 Pio Riego Gambini, Luigi Bilucaglia e Piero Almerigogna created the \"Fascio Giovanile Istriano\", while in 1915 the Austrians interned in concentration camps nearly 100,000 Istrian Italians.\n\nAfter Istria was united to Italy, following the Italian victory during World War I, some Istrian irredentists reached high levels of importance inside the Italian government, like general Vittorio Italico Zupelli, who was appointed minister.\n\nAfter WW2 there has been a huge exodus of Italian speaking people from Istria.\n\nActually there it is a growing movement in Italy (and Europe) toward asking for the official recognition of \"genocide\" or even democide of the Italians in Istria (like has been done with the Armenian massacre done by the Turks).\n\nIndeed, there it is a long history of ethnic cleansing in Croatia \nand former Yugoslavia, as reported by many academics like R.J. Rummel\n\n"}
{"id": "54329238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54329238", "title": "Lawbot", "text": "Lawbot\n\nLawbots are a broad class of customer-facing legal AI applications that are used to automate specific legal tasks, such as document automation and legal research. Lawbots use various artificial intelligence techniques or other intelligent systems to limit humans' direct ongoing involvement in certain steps of a legal matter. The user interfaces on lawbots vary from smart searches and step-by-step forms to chatbots. Consumer and enterprise-facing lawbot solutions often do not require direct supervision from a legal professional. Depending on the task, some client-facing solutions used at law firms operate under an attorney supervision.\n\nIn the 2016 report, Deloitte estimated that more than 110,000 law jobs in just the United Kingdom alone could be gone within the next twenty years because of automation. That could result in the creation of more highly skilled jobs and reduction of paralegal and temp positions. Deloitte's report asserts that \"there is significant potential for high-skilled roles that involve repetitive processes to be automated by smart and self-learning algorithms\".\n\nIt has been widely estimated for at least the last generation that all the programs and resources devoted to ensuring access to justice address only 20% of the civil legal needs of low-income people in the United States. Drawing on this experience, in late 2011, the U.S. government-funded Legal Services Corporation decided to convene a summit of leaders to explore how best to use technology in the access-to-justice community. The group adopted a mission for The Summit on the Use of Technology to Expand Access to Justice (Summit) consistent with the magnitude of the challenge: \"to explore the potential of technology to move the United States toward providing some form of effective assistance to 100% of persons otherwise unable to afford an attorney for dealing with essential civil legal needs\".\n\nIn April 2017, joined by Microsoft and Pro Bono Net, the Legal Services Corporation (LSC) announced a pilot program to develop online, statewide legal portals to direct individuals with civil legal needs to the most appropriate forms of assistance. These portals will use cutting-edge, user-centered technology to help ensure that all people with civil legal needs can navigate their options and more easily access solutions and services available from legal aid, the courts, the private bar, and community partners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11978107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11978107", "title": "Library of the Russian Academy of Sciences", "text": "Library of the Russian Academy of Sciences\n\nThe Library of the Russian Academy of Sciences () is a large state-owned Russian library based in Saint Petersburg on Vasilievsky Island and open to employees of institutions of the Russian Academy of Sciences and scholars with higher education. It is a part of the academy and includes, besides the central collection, the library collections housed by specialized academic institutions in Saint Petersburg and other cities.\n\nThe library was founded in Saint Petersburg by a decree of Peter I in 1714 and subsequently included into the structure of the St. Petersburg Academy of Sciences. Since 1747 all academic institutions and since 1783 all publishers in the country have been legally obliged to provide the library with a free copy of each published item.\n\nIn 1728-1924 its collections were stored in the building of Kunstkamera, with which it had formed a single academic institution until 1803. In the 1920s the library received many items confiscated during nationalization in Soviet Russia.\n\nIn 1924-1925 the collections were transferred to the new building built for the library in 1914 and occupied by a military hospital during the First World War.\n\nDuring the siege of Leningrad in 1941-1944 the collections stayed in the besieged city and the library was open.\n\nOn February 15, 1988, the library suffered the most catastrophic fire in its history which destroyed or damaged a considerable part of the collections.\n\nBefore the fire, as of October 1, 1986, the collection of the library and libraries subordinate to it consisted of 17,288,365 items.\n"}
{"id": "19308193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19308193", "title": "Maguire v Sydney Organising Committee for the Olympic Games (2000)", "text": "Maguire v Sydney Organising Committee for the Olympic Games (2000)\n\nMaguire v SOCOG 2000 was a legal case in Australia about making a website accessible to a visually impaired person.\n\nOn 7 June 1999, Maguire made a complaint to the human rights and equal opportunity commission (HREOC), alleging that the Sydney Organising Committee for the Olympic Games (SOCOG) had discriminated against him as a person disabled, in contravention of the Disability Discrimination Act 1992 in three aspects: the failure to provide braille copies of the information required to order Olympic Games tickets; the failure to provide braille copies of the\nOlympic Games souvenir programme; and the failure to provide a website which was accessible to Maguire. After the completion of the ticket book case (\"Maguire v SOCOG 1999\" ) on 30 September 1999, conciliation on the remaining matters was attempted but by 29 November 1999, the talks failed.\n\nMaguire v Sydney Organising Committee for the Olympic Games (Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission), No. H 99/115, 11 August 2000 (hearing), 24 August 2000 (decision). The commissioner, on 25 February 2000, notified the two parties about resuming the inquiry on 27 March 2000. On that day 27 March, SOCOG in a direction conference agreed to provide the Souvenir programme to Maguire in braille.\n\nFrom 27 March 2000 to 4 August 2000, several direction conferences and letters from Maguire's solicitor to SOCOG solicitor asking SOCOG to provide information in order for Mr Worthington and Ms Treviranus who were experts in computers and adaptive technology to complete their assessment did not result in the experts receiving the complete amount of information. In providing Mr Worthington and Ms Treviranus with incomplete information, SOCOG maintained that the html source code was commercially sensitive to SOCOG and its contractor IBM.\nThe complete information that was sought was \"a sample page in electronic format from the proposed Results Table on the SOCOG website relating to the Olympic Games and the Paralympic website\" (the latter request was abandoned upon advice by SOCOG that it was not involved in the organisation of the Paralympic Games); the current content plan for the Olympic website; the number of templates to be used; the details of the tools used to generate the pages of the Olympic website; and detailed calculations of certain \"ball park\" figures.\"\n\nAt the 3 July hearing, SOCOG presented the amended legislation effective from 13 April 2000 that transferred complaint hearing powers from HREOC to the Federal Court. The commissioner felt that the amendment did not apply because of 31 August 1999 directions. SOCOG sought Federal Court review of the commissioner's ruling, but on 3 August 2000, the Federal court dismissed the case.\n\nA witness statement submitted on 1 May 2000 confirmed that Maguire accessed SOCOG's website on 17 April 2000 and found some changes to the website but some other areas remained inaccessible. The witness statement asked for \n\"That SOCOG include ALT text on all images and image map links on the website; That SOCOG ensure access from the Schedule page to the Index of Sports; and That SOCOG ensure access to the Results Tables on the web site during the Olympic Games.\" . SOCOG used this statement to argue that the April 2000 complaint was different from the June 1999 complaint. The commissioner maintained that SOCOG's website was inaccessible and did not meet the W3C guidelines on accessibility. It was noted that SOCOG on 27 July 2000 provided Maguire information of URL addresses of each of the 37 individual sports to access the index of sports from the schedule. Even though the original complaint was general which was then particularised for the three areas, the commissioner felt the April 2000 and the June 1999 complaints were the same.\n\nSOCOG argued that the promotional material of the website was not included by the DDA 1992 definition of \"service\". The commissioner declared that the provision of information was included by the Section 4 definition of \"service\" which made Section 24 valid.\n\nSOCOG submitted that there was not any direct discrimination as Maguire in using the website was not treated less favourably than a sighted person. The incompletion of adding ALT texts and an imperfect mode access that should not be attempted by a sighted person were reasons that caused the commissioner to find that SOCOG in providing services in a manner accessible to sighted persons but inaccessible or partially accessible to a blind person violated section 5 and 24 of DDA 1992 and. Additionally, the commissioner found that SOCOG violated Section 6 by imposing a requirement that Maguire should be able to read print, with which a substantially greater proportion of persons without Maguire's disability was able to comply.\n\nSOCOG said that it did not discriminate unlawfully against Maguire but if it did, that the cost and effort in retraining staff and redrawing entire development methods was an unjustifiable hardship in providing an accessible website. SOCOG argued that the Table of Results is composed of data sourced from a number of different databases of results for each of 37 sporting disciplines; the site consists currently of 6,000 pages and approximately 55,000 pages will be generated during the course of the Games; there are 37 sports webpage templates each with approximately 35 result templates – in total 1,295 templates for results alone; the tables of results will contain \"wrapped text within cells\"; there will be approximately six billion \"hits\" on the site and the site needs to be fast and very responsive; to reformat the site and its contents in a way which will make the website accessible to the complainant will in effect require the development of a new or separate website; extensive changes to infrastructure are required; there is a requirement for specialised skills which are limited and expensive; there will be possible adverse effects upon the support and maintenance systems; one person working 8 hour business days would require 368 days to complete the task properly; $2.2 million of additional infrastructure would be required to separately host the additional designs necessary to an accessible Table of Results.\n\nHowever, Maguire with expert witnesses argued that the number of templates is significantly less than 1,295 and the reformatting of the templates will require considerably less than the two hours for each alleged by SOCOG; a more realistic estimate for the minor changes required is ten minutes each; nor is there the need for unique manually generated formats; no new infrastructure will be required because it is allegedly extant; a team of one experienced developer with a group of 5-10 assistants could provide an accessible site to Level A compliance in four weeks; wrapping in each cell can be met by using a simple device namely the inclusion of an invisible end of cell character which would indicate to a blind person the end of the text in each cell; the cost of making the site accessible is a modest amount; the number of templates has been estimated at 357 for 28 sports. Additional templates would be required for 37. Because of the failure of respondent to supply the information requested by letter on 31 March 2000 the number of templates has been estimated.\n\nThe expert witnesses of Maguire who provided months of advice convinced the commissioner more than the expert witnesses of SOCOG who provided days of advice just before the August hearing. Despite conflicting arguments stated above, the Commissioner found that SOCOG who had unlawfully discriminated in violation of the DDA, delayed the final determination of that complaint of the commissioner and took advantage of matters consequential upon that delay in order to support its alleged inability to cure its problem.\n\nThe Commissioner found that SOCOG had engaged in unlawful discrimination against Maguire in violation of Section 24 of the DDA 1992. SOCOG was ordered to render its website accessible including ALT text on all images and image map links on its website; providing access to the Index of Sports from the Schedule page; and providing access to the Results Tables to be used on the website during the Sydney Olympic Games by 15 September 2000. Failure on SOCOG's part to comply with that order would give Maguire the option to press for compensation.\n\nBruce Lindsay Maguire v. Sydney Organising Committee for the Olympic Games (Respondent) (HREOC) H 99/115, date of hearing: 6 November 2000, date of ex tempore decision: 6 November 2000, date of written decision: 18 November 2000.\n\nThe Commissioner found that SOCOG only partially complied and as a result, by section 103(1)(b)(iv) of the DDA, the commissioner awarded Maguire $20,000.\n\nAustralian governments have decided to adopt the W3C Guidelines, with the Commonwealth Government requiring all agency websites to pass accessibility tests by 1 December 2000.\n\nIt is questionable what tests are to be complied with, and what degree of compliance would be required. Since this case there been greater scrutiny of the accessibility of subsequent Olympic Games websites. Peter Coroneos from the Internet Industry Association warned businesses that the SOCOG decision confirmed that the DDA applied to online services and that Australian websites targeting overseas customers may be liable under equivalent legislation.\n\nMaguire v Sydney Organising Committee for the Olympic Games (1999)\n\n"}
{"id": "1078440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1078440", "title": "Mulesing", "text": "Mulesing\n\nMulesing is the removal of strips of wool-bearing skin from around the breech (buttocks) of a sheep to prevent the parasitic infection flystrike (myiasis).\nThe wool around the buttocks can retain feces and urine, which attracts flies. The\nscar tissue that grows over the wound does not grow wool, so is less likely to attract the flies that cause flystrike. Mulesing is a common practice in Australia for this purpose, particularly on highly wrinkled Merino sheep. Mulesing is considered by some to be a skilled surgical task. Mulesing can only affect flystrike on the area cut out and has no effect on flystrike on any other part of the animal's body.\n\nMulesing is a controversial practice. The National Farmers Federation of Australia says that \"mulesing remains the most effective practical way to eliminate the risk of 'flystrike' in sheep\" and that \"without mulesing up to 3,000,000 sheep a year could die a slow and agonising death from flystrike\". The Australian Veterinary Association (AVA) \"recognises the welfare implications of mulesing of sheep. However, in the absence of more humane alternatives for preventing breech strike, the AVA accepts that the practice of mulesing should continue as a sheep husbandry procedure\". The AVA also supports the use of analgesics and the accreditation of mulesing practitioners. The Australian Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals accepts mulesing when the risk of flystrike is very high, when it is done properly, and even then only as a last resort. The animal rights organisation PETA strongly opposes mulesing, says the practice is cruel and painful, and that more humane alternatives exist, and claim that sheep can be spared maggot infestation through more humane methods, including special diets and spray washing.\n\nIn July 2009, representatives of the Australian wool industry scrapped an earlier promise, made in November 2004, to phase out the practice of mulesing in Australia by 31 December 2010. Mulesing is being phased out in New Zealand.\n\nMulesing is named after John WH Mules, who developed the practice. While shearing a ewe which had suffered several flystrikes, Mules's hand slipped and his blade shears removed some skin from her hind end. Mules noticed that this prevented the occurrence of flystrike. The procedure was refined, experimented with, and demonstrated to reduce flystrike. It was approved for use in Australia in the 1930s. In Australia, it is thought that the fly primarily responsible for flystrike, \"Lucilia cuprina\", was introduced from South Africa in the nineteenth century.\n\nOriginally, mulesing was carried out on sheep after they were weaned because it was considered \"too rough\" for lambs. However, lambs appear to cope with the procedure better than older sheep as the actual area of skin fold removed on young lambs is quite small, and they are protected for an extra year as well. For young lambs older than two months, the discomfort period seems to last for approximately two weeks by which time healing is almost, if not entirely, complete. Current codes of practice ban mulesing for sheep over 12 months of age.\n\nMulesing is a procedure which, in Australia, is carried out by a person who has completed the mandatory accreditation and training programme, usually a professional mulesing contractor.\n\nWhile the lamb is under restraint (typically in a marking cradle), the wrinkled skin in the animal's breech (rump area) is cut away from the perianal region down to the top of the hindlimbs. Originally, the procedure was typically performed with modified wool-trimming metal shears, but now there are similar metal shears designed specifically for mulesing. In addition, the tail is docked and the remaining stump is sometimes skinned. The cuts are executed to avoid affecting underlying muscle tissue.\n\nThe New South Wales Department of Primary Industries states in the Standard Operating Procedures that, \"While the operation causes some pain, no pre or post operative pain relief measures are used\". Antiseptics, anaesthesia and painkillers are not required by Australian law during or after the procedure but are often applied, as the procedure is known to be painful to the animal. Products have been approved for pain relief during the procedure, including Tri-Solfen. The minor use permit for Tri-Solfen makes the product available for use by both veterinarians and sheep industry employees, such as mulesing contractors and graziers.\n\nAfter a heavy mules, non-wooled skin around the anus (and vulva in ewes) is pulled tight, the cut heals and results in smooth scar tissue that does not get fouled by fæces or urine. Most sheep have a light mules which does not leave the skin bare, but simply removes the skin wrinkle leaving a reduced area to grow wool and stain.\n\nWhen managed according to the standards, policies and procedures developed by the CSIRO, lambs are normally mulesed a few weeks after birth. The operation usually takes less than a minute. Standard practice is to do this operation simultaneously with other procedures such as ear marking, tail docking, and vaccination. Because the procedure removes skin, not any underlying flesh or structure, there is little blood loss from the cut other than a minor oozing on the edges of the cut skin.\n\nMulesed lambs should be released onto clean pasture. The ewes and suckling lambs should receive minimal disturbance until all wounds are completely healed (about four weeks). Observation should be carried out from a distance.\n\nMulesing should be completed well before the flystrike season, or else chemical protection should be provided to reduce risk to the lambs and ewes.\n\nLambs that are slaughtered soon after weaning generally do not need mulesing because they can be protected by chemical treatment for the short time they are at risk.\n\nMulesing is different from crutching. Crutching is the mechanical removal of wool around the tail, anus (and vulva in ewes) in breeds of sheep with woolly points where this is necessary. Mulesing is the removal of skin to provide permanent resistance to breech strike in Merino sheep. Other breeds tend to have less loose skin, and wool, so close to the tail and may have less dense wool.\n\nCrutching has to be repeated at regular intervals as the wool grows continuously. Frequent crutching of Merinos reduces the incidence of flystrike, but not as much as mulesing.\n\nAt the time mulesing was invented, crutching was done with blade shears. In Australia, these have been almost universally replaced with machine shears. Hand shears were being used when Mules inadvertently carried out the procedure during crutching. Mulesing would not inadvertently occur using modern machine shears.\n\nSome animal rights activists consider unanesthetised mulesing to be inhumane and unnecessary. They have also argued that mulesing may mask genetic susceptibility to flystrike allowing for genetic weaknesses to be continued.\n\nProponents of mulesing are largely from Australia where severe and often fatal flystrike is common.\n\nIn October 2004, American fashion retailer Abercrombie & Fitch Co. responded to pressure from PETA to boycott Australian merino wool due in part to the use of mulesing in Australia. The National Farmers' Federation responded by stating \"Abercrombie and Fitch does not use Australian wool\". Then, in December 2008, one of the world's largest retailers, Liz Claiborne, (in which PETA is a shareholder) banned the use of Australian Merino wool in its products in opposition to the mulesing practice, at the time an Australian Wool Innovations spokesman said \"the company did not purchase any Australian wool\". In June 2009, British department store chain John Lewis joined the wool boycott. The international fashion retailer New Look also refuses to stock products made from Australian Merino wool. The campaign by PETA also seeks to draw attention to Australia's live sheep export trade. PETA's campaign has hurt the Australian wool industry with several American and European clothing retailers agreeing to the boycott.\n\nAustralian interior furnishing wholesaler Instyle Contract Textiles endorses the cessation of mulesing. In early 2008, the company signed an exclusive worldwide agreement with The SRS Company to source wool from non-mulesed Merino sheep that have been bred specifically to be naturally resistant to flystrike.\n\nThe controversy reignited after a television programme aired in Sweden. This programme alleged that a lobbying consultant, Kevin Craig, acting on behalf of the Australian Wool and Sheep Industry Taskforce offered a Swedish activist a free trip to Australia if the activist agreed not to go on camera nor do an interview. As a consequence, all clothing manufacturers and retailers in Sweden banned the purchase of wool from sheep that have been mulesed. Since then, the Swedish Agriculture Minister, Eskil Erlandsson, has said that \"he was satisfied that Australia appeared to be responding to international concerns about mulesing and that bans or boycotts were not necessary\". \"But in the long run we hope there is going to be a final end to all sorts of mulesing.\"\n\nSome European retailers have agreed to lift their ban on Australian merino wool if pain relief is used during mulesing. The retailers have not been named in an effort to avoid any backlash.\n\nIn order to help comply with the 2010 deadline to phase out mulesing, Western Australia's governmental research stations ceased mulesing their sheep on 1 April 2008.\n\nThe Australian Wool Innovation (AWI) has pledged to phase out mulesing by 2010, but PETA has accused the Australian wool industry of trying to extend this deadline. On 27 July 2009, the Australian wool industry dumped its long-standing pledge to phase out mulesing by the end of 2010, a move that was harshly criticized by animal welfare groups and led to criticism by some farmers. The AWI maintains that pursuing a deadline approach to eliminating mulesing was not based on \"sound health and welfare science\" and risked a serious deterioration in the welfare of sheep. Alternative methods of mulesing, such as using clips and intradermals, were \"not sufficiently developed to support a wholesale cessation of the procedure in 2010\", AWI said.\n\nPresent (2011) approach of AWI is that it \"supports all woolgrowers in their choice of best practice animal health and hygiene in flystrike control\", including the practice of mulesing without pain relief, but aims to provide animal welfare improvements such as pain relief and antiseptics. \nAlternatives to mulesing must meet health standards for both the lamb and its handlers in addition to being safe for consumption as meat or textile.\n\nMerino sheep bred on selection principles may be more resistant to flystrike because they are plain bodied (lower skin wrinkling around the breech). Studies have shown that flystrike is lower in plain bodied sheep. However, mulesed animals had consistently lower flystrike than unmulesed regardless of body type.\n\nThe resistance of plain-bodied Merino sheep to flystrike arose from field investigations by Australian scientists, Drs H.R. Seddon and H.B. Belschner, in the early 1930s. Non-mulesed Merino ewe bodies were graded as plain (A class), wrinkly (B class) and very wrinkly (C class). The plain-bodied (A class) Merino ewes were much less susceptible to flystrike than wrinkly-bodied Merinos (B and C class).\n\nIn these Merino flocks, the sheep are plainer than the plain-bodied (A class) Merino ewes and therefore more resistant to flystrike. The rams and semen from these studs are used in over 3,000 of the 45,000 Merino farms in Australia. Using breeding principles, wrinkle-skinned Merino flocks which require mulesing have been transformed into plain-bodied and mules-free flocks within five years.\n\nSeveral non-surgical alternatives are currently being researched:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "634094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=634094", "title": "Nondelegation doctrine", "text": "Nondelegation doctrine\n\nThe doctrine of nondelegation is the theory that one branch of government must not authorize another entity to exercise the power or function which it is constitutionally authorized to exercise itself. It is explicit or implicit in all written constitutions that impose a strict structural separation of powers. It is usually applied in questions of constitutionally improper delegations of powers of any of the three branches of government to either of the other, to the administrative state, or to private entities. Although it is usually constitutional for executive officials to delegate executive powers to executive branch subordinates, there can also be improper delegations of powers within an executive branch.\n\nAustralian federalism does not permit the federal Parliament or Government to delegate its powers to state or territorial parliaments or governments, nor territorial parliaments or governments to delegate their powers to the federal Parliament or Government, but the states parliaments delegate its powers to the federal parliament by means of section 51 subsection (xxxvii) of the Constitution Act 1901.\n\nCanadian federalism does not permit Parliament or the provincial legislatures to delegate their powers to each other.\n\nIn the Federal Government of the United States, the \"nondelegation doctrine\" is the principle that the Congress of the United States, being vested with \"all legislative powers\" by Article One, Section 1 of the United States Constitution, cannot delegate that power to anyone else. However, the Supreme Court ruled in \"J. W. Hampton, Jr. & Co. v. United States\" (1928) that congressional delegation of legislative authority is an implied power of Congress that is constitutional so long as Congress provides an \"intelligible principle\" to guide the executive branch: \"'In determining what Congress may do in seeking assistance from another branch, the extent and character of that assistance must be fixed according to common sense and the inherent necessities of the government co-ordination.' So long as Congress 'shall lay down by legislative act an intelligible principle to which the person or body authorized to [exercise the delegated authority] is directed to conform, such legislative action is not a forbidden delegation of legislative power.'\"\n\nFor example, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is an agency in the Executive branch created by Congress with the power to regulate food and drugs in the United States. Congress has given the FDA a broad mandate to ensure the safety of the public and prevent false advertising, but it is up to the agency to assess risks and announce prohibitions on harmful additives, and to determine the process by which actions will be brought based on the same. Similarly, the Internal Revenue Service has been given the responsibility of collecting taxes that are assessed under the Internal Revenue Code. Although Congress has determined the amount of the tax to be assessed, it has delegated to the IRS the authority to determine how such taxes are to be collected. Administrative agencies like these are sometimes referred to as the Fourth Branch of government.\n\nThe origins of the nondelegation doctrine, as interpreted in U.S., can be traced back to, at least, 1690, when John Locke wrote:\n\nThe Legislative transfer the Power of Making Laws to any other hands. For it being but a delegated Power from the People, they, who have it, cannot pass it over to others. . . . And when the people have said, We will submit to rules, and be govern'd by Laws made by such Men, and in such Forms, no Body else can say other Men shall make Laws for them; nor can the people be bound by any Laws but such as are Enacted by those, whom they have Chosen, and Authorised to make Laws for them. The power of the Legislative being derived from the People by a positive voluntary Grant and Institution, can be no other, than what the positive Grant conveyed, which being only to make Laws, and not to make Legislators, the Legislative can have no power to transfer their Authority of making laws, and place it in other hands.\nOne of the earliest cases involving the exact limits of nondelegation was \"Wayman v. Southard\" (1825). Congress had delegated to the courts the power to prescribe judicial procedure; it was contended that Congress had thereby unconstitutionally clothed the judiciary with legislative powers. While Chief Justice John Marshall conceded that the determination of rules of procedure was a legislative function, he distinguished between \"important\" subjects and mere details. Marshall wrote that \"a general provision may be made, and power given to those who are to act under such general provisions, to fill up the details.\" In 1892, the Court in \"Field v. Clark\", 143 U.S. 649, noted \"That congress cannot delegate legislative power to the president is a principle universally recognized as vital to the integrity and maintenance of the system of government ordained by the constitution\" while holding that the tariff-setting authority delegated in the McKinley Act \"was not the making of law,\" but rather empowered the executive branch to serve as a \"mere agent\" of Congress.\n\nDuring the 1930s, Congress provided the executive branch with wide powers to combat the Great Depression. The Supreme Court case of \"Panama Refining v. Ryan\", 293 U.S. 388 (1935) involved the National Industrial Recovery Act, which included a provision granting the President the authority to prohibit the interstate shipment of petroleum in excess of certain quotas. In the \"Panama Refining\" case, however, the Court struck down the provision on the ground that Congress had set \"no criterion to govern the President's course.\"\n\nOther provisions of the National Industrial Recovery Act were also challenged. In \"Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States\" (1935), the Supreme Court considered a provision which permitted the President to approve trade codes, drafted by the businesses themselves, so as to ensure \"fair competition.\" The Supreme Court found that, since the law sets no explicit guidelines, businesses \"may roam at will and the President may approve or disapprove their proposal as he may see fit.\" Thus, they struck down the relevant provisions of the Recovery Act.\n\nIn the 1989 case \"Mistretta v. United States\", the Court stated that:\n\nOnly rarely has the Supreme Court invalidated laws as violations of the nondelegation doctrine. Exemplifying the Court's legal reasoning on this matter, it ruled in the 1998 case \"Clinton v. City of New York\" that the Line Item Veto Act of 1996, which authorized the President to selectively void portions of appropriation bills, was a violation of the Presentment Clause, which sets forth the formalities governing the passage of legislation. Although the Court noted that the attorneys prosecuting the case had extensively discussed the nondelegation doctrine, the Court declined to consider that question. However, Justice Kennedy, in a concurring opinion, wrote that he would have found the statute to violate the exclusive responsibility for laws to be made by Congress.\n\nThe original Bill of Rights approved by the House of Representatives included a Sixteenth Article, which stated that \"(t)he powers delegated by the Constitution to the government of the United States, shall be exercised as therein appropriated, so that the Legislative shall never exercise the powers vested in the Executive or Judicial; nor the Executive the powers vested in the Legislative or Judicial; nor the Judicial the powers vested in the Legislative or Executive.\" This article was not included in subsequent versions of the Articles or in the final Amendments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23038703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23038703", "title": "Overseas Absentee Voting Act", "text": "Overseas Absentee Voting Act\n\nThe Overseas Absentee Voting Act, officially known as Republic Act No. 9189, is a law in the Philippines passed on February 4, 2003 which provides for a system for citizens of the Philippines currently residing or working outside of the Philippines to vote in an election. This act was a consolidation of Senate Bill No. 2104 and House Bill No. 3570, the first draft was authored in congress on July 22, 2002. The act is implemented by the Commission on Elections (COMELEC) with the help of the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA).\n\nA registered overseas absentee voter may vote for the following positions:\n\nR.A. 9189 states that all Filipino citizens abroad who are not disqualified by law and at least 18 years old by the time of elections will be entitled to vote. The eligible individuals are required to file their applications personally at the Philippine embassy or consulate nearest their region. They are also required to be holders of a valid Philippine passport with an accomplished overseas absentee voting (OAV) registration form from the commission on elections. For seafarers a photocopy of their seaman’s book is required. Lastly if the individual availed the citizen retention and reacquisition act (R.A. 9225), they would need to submit their order of approval application for the said act.\n\nThe Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) spent a total of 112.71 million pesos for the overseas absentee voters in 2004. The Philippine government put-up 89 registration centers across the globe along with 44 posts in 154 area dedicated for field registration. Data capturing machines were also based at DFA embassies and consulates. The registration period for 7 months was trimmed to 2 months.\n\nThe turnout yielded 364,187 registrants where 233,092 went on to vote. The 64 percent turnout rate was lower than what was expected thus prompted the Philippine senate to do a joint congressional inquiry on December 13, 2004, Sen. Rodolfo Biazon was the preceding chairman of the committee. The factors that affected the low turnout were attributed to the following:\n\n\nPreparations for the 2009 registration began as early as April 2008 where the commissioner of Comelec took charge of the overseas absentee voting process. Comelec held consultations with non-governmental organizations, the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) and the Commission on Filipinos Overseas (CFO) to ensure that voter turnout in the 2004 elections would not be repeated. A massive information dissemination campaign was also proposed to help out in the information drive. The registration period was postponed to start on February 1, 2009 instead of the originally planned start date of December 1, 2008, this was done to ensure that the embassies and consulates have enough time to prepare. The registration period ends on August 31, 2009 for a total of almost seven months, two months shorter of the original plan.\n\nMakati Rep. Teodoro \"Teddy Boy\" Locsin Jr has taken on the initiative to make the necessary amendment to the overseas absentee voting bill. The amendment will take off one of the requirements needed for registration, specifically the affidavit of intent to return which is required of Filipino immigrants to avail of the OAV bill. This takes away the fear of Filipino U.S. green card holders who fear that their residency will be affected by submitting this affidavit.\n\n"}
{"id": "44015124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44015124", "title": "Performance-based regulation", "text": "Performance-based regulation\n\nPerformance-based regulation (\"PBR\") is an approach to utility regulation designed to strengthen utility performance incentives. Thus defined, the term PBR is synonymous with incentive regulation. The two most common forms of PBR are award-penalty mechanisms (“APMs”) and multiyear rate plans (“MRPs”). Both involve mathematical formulas that can lower regulatory cost at the same time that they encourage better performance. This constitutes a remarkable potential advance in the “technology” of regulation. Economic theorists whose work has supported the development of PBR include Nobel prize-winning economist Jean Tirole.\n\nImplementation of applicable methods of incentive regulation represents a complex problem for regulatory authorities. Therefore, this problem should be analyzed though different aspects, taking into consideration parameters, such as incentive’s mechanism defined by regulatory authorities, enabling thus the development of regulated activity and increase of efficiency and productivity.\n\nAn APM is designed to strengthen performance incentives in targeted areas. It is sometimes for this reason called a targeted performance incentive. Basic components of such mechanisms include a key performance indicator (called an “output” in Britain), a performance appraisal that compares the utility’s value for the indicator to a benchmark value, and a mechanism for adjusting utility rates to reflect the performance appraisal. Here are some common performance areas targeted by APMs.\n\n\nAPMs targeting cost are often used to bolster incentives when a regulatory system features a mechanism, such as a fuel cost adjustment clause, that is believed to weaken cost containment incentives.\n\nMRPs are the most common approach to PBR around the world. An MRP features a moratorium on rate cases which typically lasts three to five years. An attrition relief mechanism (“ARM”) adjusts rates or revenues automatically between rate cases to reflect inflation and other changes in business conditions. Some costs are typically addressed separately using cost trackers. Some MRPs feature earnings sharing mechanisms that share surplus or deficit earnings between the utility and customers when the return on equity deviates from its target. Plans may also feature an efficiency carryover mechanism that incentivizes long term performance gains and discourages the opportunistic timing of expenses by permitting the utility to keep a share of cost savings (or absorb a share of high costs) when rates are trued up to cost at the end of the plan.\n\nSince infrequent rate cases lessen concerns about cost allocations and cross-subsidies, MRPs can permit regulators to sanction greater marketing flexibility. Most MRPs also include APMs to balance incentives for cost containment with incentives to pursue other goals (e.g. reliability or energy conservation) that matter to customers.\n\nThe design of the ARM is a key issue in a proceeding to approve an MRP. Several approaches to ARM design are well established.\n\n\nIn North America, MRPs have been especially popular where utilities need marketing flexibility. Such plans have helped railroads, oil pipelines, and telecommunications utilities provide a complex array of services to markets with diverse competitive pressures from a common set of assets. Most of these plans featured index-based ARMs called \"price caps\". Early papers encouraging the use of input price and productivity research in ARM design include Sudit (1979) and Baumol (1982).\n\nMRPs are also favored for energy distributors in most populous provinces of Canada and are increasingly popular for gas and electric utilities in the United States.\n\nOverseas, the privatization of many utilities in the last 20 years has forced governments to choose a regulatory system. The majority have chosen MRPs over cost of service regulation. Regulators in Britain, Australia, Germany, the Netherlands, and New Zealand are recognized MRP leaders.\n\nThe British approach to MRP design dates back to the early 1980s. The latest version of this approach, called \"RIIO\" (Revenue = Incentives + Innovation + Outputs), has been implemented for gas and power transmission utilities and will begin for power distributors in 2015. The heart of the RIIO system is an MRP, which the British call a \"price control\". A revenue cap ARM has an RPI - X formula. The typical plan term is 8 years. Since the ARM is based on multiyear cost forecasts, the regulator must carefully review utility business plans. Statistical benchmarking and independent engineering studies loom large in cost appraisals. 30 months is typically required to process a RIIO application. There are APMs for a wide range of outputs. Special cost trackers fund innovative projects.\n\nRecent developments have increased the potential usefulness of MRPs in US electric utility regulation.\n\nUnder cost of service regulation, utilities will respond to these conditions by filing rate cases more frequently and requesting additional marketing flexibility. Frequent rate cases raise regulatory cost and weaken utility cost containment incentives. The recurrent issues of cost allocation and cross-subsidies will incline regulators to discourage desired marketing flexibility.\n\nRIIO has recently been touted as a promising approach to regulating US electric utilities in an era of smart grid innovations and increased distributed generation. Advantages of the RIIO approach include the mandatory consideration of multiyear investment strategies. However, many components of RIIO (e.g. MRPs and APMs) are already widely used in America, and Americans have developed their own approaches to addressing certain regulatory challenges. For example, integrated resource planning has been used for years in some states, and planning can be extended to incorporate DG and smart grid innovations. Shared savings incentives have long been used for utility conservation programs and can be extended to distributed generation. There is a long tradition of \"pilot\" projects to encourage innovation. Alternative approaches to ARM design are more familiar and can lower implementation costs.\n\nPBR is sometimes defined more narrowly as that subset of IR in which mechanisms are calibrated using statistical research to yield superior (or inferior) returns for superior (or inferior) performance. One example of PBR that conforms to this definition is an MRP with an index-based ARM that is calibrated so that utilities earn superior (inferior) returns for productivity growth exceeding (falling short of) the industry norm. Another example is an APM for reliability that uses a benchmark reflecting industry norms.\n\nSuch approach is called regulatory benchmarking. If properly applied, benchmarking presents new incentives for a regulated\nfirms to behave efficiently. However, regulatory benchmarking is subject to many issues. For instance, regulated companies may be motivated to short-term savings which result in postponement of investments, which may result in the deterioration of quality of service. Also, the quality of data is crucial.\n\n"}
{"id": "23627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23627", "title": "Police", "text": "Police\n\nA police force is a constituted body of persons empowered by a state to enforce the law, to protect people and property, and to prevent crime and civil disorder. Their powers include the power of arrest and the legitimized use of force. The term is most commonly associated with police services of a sovereign state that are authorized to exercise the police power of that state within a defined legal or territorial area of responsibility. Police forces are often defined as being separate from military or other organizations involved in the defense of the state against foreign aggressors; however, gendarmerie are military units charged with civil policing. The police force is usually a public sector service, funded through taxes.\n\nLaw enforcement is only part of policing activity. Policing has included an array of activities in different situations, but the predominant ones are concerned with the preservation of order. In some societies, in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, these developed within the context of maintaining the class system and the protection of private property. Police forces have become ubiquitous in modern societies. Some are involved to varying degrees in corruption, police brutality and the enforcement of authoritarian rule.\n\nAlternative names for a police force include constabulary, gendarmerie, police department, police service, crime prevention, protective services, law enforcement agency, civil guard or civic guard. Members may be referred to as police officers, troopers, sheriffs, constables, rangers, peace officers or civic/civil guards. The word police is most universal and can be seen in many non-English speaking countries. \n\nAs police are often interacting with individuals, slang terms are numerous. Many slang terms for police officers are decades or centuries old with lost etymology. One of the oldest, \"cop\", has largely lost its slang connotations and become a common colloquial term used both by the public and police officers to refer to their profession.\n\nFirst attested in English in the early 15th century, initially in a range of senses encompassing '(public) policy; state; public order', the word \"police\" comes from Middle French \"police\" ('public order, administration, government'), in turn from Latin \"politia\", which is the Latinisation of the Greek πολιτεία (\"politeia\"), \"citizenship, administration, civil polity\". This is derived from πόλις (\"polis\"), \"city\".\n\nLaw enforcement in ancient China was carried out by \"prefects\" for thousands of years since it developed in both the Chu and Jin kingdoms of the Spring and Autumn period. In Jin, dozens of prefects were spread across the state, each having limited authority and employment period. They were appointed by local magistrates, who reported to higher authorities such as governors, who in turn were appointed by the emperor, and they oversaw the civil administration of their \"prefecture\", or jurisdiction. Under each prefect were \"subprefects\" who helped collectively with law enforcement in the area. Some prefects were responsible for handling investigations, much like modern police detectives. Prefects could also be women. The concept of the \"prefecture system\" spread to other cultures such as Korea and Japan.\n\nIn ancient Greece, publicly owned slaves were used by magistrates as police. In Athens, a group of 300 Scythian slaves (the , \"rod-bearers\") was used to guard public meetings to keep order and for crowd control, and also assisted with dealing with criminals, handling prisoners, and making arrests. Other duties associated with modern policing, such as investigating crimes, were left to the citizens themselves.\n\nIn the Roman empire, the army, rather than a dedicated police organization, provided security. Local watchmen were hired by cities to provide some extra security. Magistrates such as \"procurators fiscal\" and \"quaestors\" investigated crimes. There was no concept of public prosecution, so victims of crime or their families had to organize and manage the prosecution themselves.\n\nUnder the reign of Augustus, when the capital had grown to almost one million inhabitants, 14 wards were created; the wards were protected by seven squads of 1,000 men called \"vigiles\", who acted as firemen and nightwatchmen. Their duties included apprehending thieves and robbers and capturing runaway slaves. The vigiles were supported by the Urban Cohorts who acted as a heavy-duty anti-riot force and even the Praetorian Guard if necessary.\n\nIn medieval Spain, \"Santa Hermandades\", or \"holy brotherhoods\", peacekeeping associations of armed individuals, were a characteristic of municipal life, especially in Castile. As medieval Spanish kings often could not offer adequate protection, protective municipal leagues began to emerge in the twelfth century against banditry and other rural criminals, and against the lawless nobility or to support one or another claimant to a crown.\n\nThese organizations were intended to be temporary, but became a long-standing fixture of Spain. The first recorded case of the formation of an \"hermandad\" occurred when the towns and the peasantry of the north united to police the pilgrim road to Santiago de Compostela in Galicia, and protect the pilgrims against robber knights.\n\nThroughout the Middle Ages such alliances were frequently formed by combinations of towns to protect the roads connecting them, and were occasionally extended to political purposes. Among the most powerful was the league of North Castilian and Basque ports, the Hermandad de las marismas: Toledo, Talavera, and Villarreal.\n\nAs one of their first acts after end of the War of the Castilian Succession in 1479, Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile established the centrally-organized and efficient \"Holy Brotherhood\" as a national police force. They adapted an existing brotherhood to the purpose of a general police acting under officials appointed by themselves, and endowed with great powers of summary jurisdiction even in capital cases. The original brotherhoods continued to serve as modest local police-units until their final suppression in 1835.\n\nThe Vehmic courts of Germany provided some policing in the absence of strong state institutions.\n\nIn France during the Middle Ages, there were two Great Officers of the Crown of France with police responsibilities: The Marshal of France and the Constable of France. The military policing responsibilities of the Marshal of France were delegated to the Marshal's provost, whose force was known as the Marshalcy because its authority ultimately derived from the Marshal. The marshalcy dates back to the Hundred Years' War, and some historians trace it back to the early 12th century. Another organisation, the Constabulary (French: Connétablie), was under the command of the Constable of France. The constabulary was regularised as a military body in 1337. Under Francis I of France (who reigned 1515–1547), the Maréchaussée was merged with the Constabulary. The resulting force was also known as the Maréchaussée, or, formally, the Constabulary and Marshalcy of France.\n\nThe English system of maintaining public order since the Norman conquest was a private system of tithings, led by a constable, which was based on a social obligation for the good conduct of the others; more common was that local lords and nobles were responsible for maintaining order in their lands, and often appointed a constable, sometimes unpaid, to enforce the law. There was also a system investigative \"juries\".\n\nThe Assize of Arms of 1252, which required the appointment of constables to summon men to arms, quell breaches of the peace, and to deliver offenders to the sheriffs or reeves, is cited as one of the earliest creation of the English police. The Statute of Winchester of 1285 is also cited as the primary legislation regulating the policing of the country between the Norman Conquest and the Metropolitan Police Act 1829.\n\nFrom about 1500, private watchmen were funded by private individuals and organisations to carry out police functions. They were later nicknamed 'Charlies', probably after the reigning monarch King Charles II. Thief-takers were also rewarded for catching thieves and returning the stolen property.\n\nThe first use of the word police (\"Polles\") in English comes from the book \"The Second Part of the Institutes of the Lawes of England\" published in 1642.\n\nThe first centrally organised police force was created by the government of King Louis XIV in 1667 to police the city of Paris, then the largest city in Europe. The royal edict, registered by the \"Parlement\" of Paris on March 15, 1667 created the office of \"lieutenant général de police\" (\"lieutenant general of police\"), who was to be the head of the new Paris police force, and defined the task of the police as \"ensuring the peace and quiet of the public and of private individuals, purging the city of what may cause disturbances, procuring abundance, and having each and everyone live according to their station and their duties\".\nThis office was first held by Gabriel Nicolas de la Reynie, who had 44 \"commissaires de police\" (police commissioners) under his authority. In 1709, these commissioners were assisted by \"inspecteurs de police\" (police inspectors). The city of Paris was divided into 16 districts policed by the \"commissaires\", each assigned to a particular district and assisted by a growing bureaucracy. The scheme of the Paris police force was extended to the rest of France by a royal edict of October 1699, resulting in the creation of lieutenants general of police in all large French cities and towns.\n\nAfter the French Revolution, Napoléon I reorganized the police in Paris and other cities with more than 5,000 inhabitants on February 17, 1800 as the Prefecture of Police. On March 12, 1829, a government decree created the first uniformed police in France, known as \"sergents de ville\" (\"city sergeants\"), which the Paris Prefecture of Police's website claims were the first uniformed policemen in the world.\n\nIn 1737, George II began paying some London and Middlesex watchmen with tax monies, beginning the shift to government control. In 1749 Henry Fielding began organizing a force of quasi-professional constables known as the Bow Street Runners. The Macdaniel affair added further impetus for a publicly salaried police force that did not depend on rewards. Nonetheless, In 1828, there were privately financed police units in no fewer than 45 parishes within a 10-mile radius of London.\n\nThe word \"police\" was borrowed from French into the English language in the 18th century, but for a long time it applied only to French and continental European police forces. The word, and the concept of police itself, were \"disliked as a symbol of foreign oppression\" (according to \"Britannica 1911\"). Before the 19th century, the first use of the word \"police\" recorded in government documents in the United Kingdom was the appointment of Commissioners of Police for Scotland in 1714 and the creation of the Marine Police in 1798.\n\nIn 1797, Patrick Colquhoun was able to persuade the West Indies merchants who operated at the Pool of London on the River Thames, to establish a police force at the docks to prevent rampant theft that was causing annual estimated losses of £500,000 worth of cargo. The idea of a police, as it then existed in France, was considered as a potentially undesirable foreign import. In building the case for the police in the face of England's firm anti-police sentiment, Colquhoun framed the political rationale on economic indicators to show that a police dedicated to crime prevention was \"perfectly congenial to the principle of the British constitution\". Moreover, he went so far as to praise the French system, which had reached \"the greatest degree of perfection\" in his estimation. \nWith the initial investment of £4,200, the new trial force of the Thames River Police began with about 50 men charged with policing 33,000 workers in the river trades, of whom Colquhoun claimed 11,000 were known criminals and \"on the game\". The force was a success after its first year, and his men had \"established their worth by saving £122,000 worth of cargo and by the rescuing of several lives\". Word of this success spread quickly, and the government passed the Marine Police Bill on 28 July 1800, transforming it from a private to public police agency; now the oldest police force in the world. Colquhoun published a book on the experiment, \"The Commerce and Policing of the River Thames\". It found receptive audiences far outside London, and inspired similar forces in other cities, notably, New York City, Dublin, and Sydney.\n\nColquhoun's utilitarian approach to the problem – using a cost-benefit argument to obtain support from businesses standing to benefit – allowed him to achieve what Henry and John Fielding failed for their Bow Street detectives. Unlike the stipendiary system at Bow Street, the river police were full-time, salaried officers prohibited from taking private fees. His other contribution was the concept of preventive policing; his police were to act as a highly visible deterrent to crime by their permanent presence on the Thames. Colquhoun's innovations were a critical development leading up to Robert Peel's \"new\" police three decades later.\n\nMeanwhile, the authorities in Glasgow, Scotland successfully petitioned the government to pass the Glasgow Police Act establishing the City of Glasgow Police in 1800. Other Scottish towns soon followed suit and set up their own police forces through acts of parliament. In Ireland, the Irish Constabulary Act of 1822 marked the beginning of the Royal Irish Constabulary. The Act established a force in each barony with chief constables and inspectors general under the control of the civil administration at Dublin Castle. By 1841 this force numbered over 8,600 men.\n\nLondon was fast reaching a size unprecedented in world history, due to the onset of the Industrial Revolution. It became clear that the locally maintained system of volunteer constables and \"watchmen\" was ineffective, both in detecting and preventing crime. A parliamentary committee was appointed to investigate the system of policing in London. Upon Sir Robert Peel being appointed as Home Secretary in 1822, he established a second and more effective committee, and acted upon its findings.\n\nRoyal assent to the Metropolitan Police Act 1829 was given and the Metropolitan Police Service was established on September 29, 1829 in London as the first modern and professional police force in the world.\n\nPeel, widely regarded as the father of modern policing, was heavily influenced by the social and legal philosophy of Jeremy Bentham, who called for a strong and centralised, but politically neutral, police force for the maintenance of social order, for the protection of people from crime and to act as a visible deterrent to urban crime and disorder. Peel decided to standardise the police force as an official paid profession, to organise it in a civilian fashion, and to make it answerable to the public.\nDue to public fears concerning the deployment of the military in domestic matters, Peel organised the force along civilian lines, rather than paramilitary. To appear neutral, the uniform was deliberately manufactured in blue, rather than red which was then a military colour, along with the officers being armed only with a wooden truncheon and a rattle to signal the need for assistance. Along with this, police ranks did not include military titles, with the exception of Sergeant.\n\nTo distance the new police force from the initial public view of it as a new tool of government repression, Peel publicised the so-called Peelian principles, which set down basic guidelines for ethical policing:\n\nThe 1829 Metropolitan Police Act created a modern police force by limiting the purview of the force and its powers, and envisioning it as merely an organ of the judicial system. Their job was apolitical; to maintain the peace and apprehend criminals for the courts to process according to the law. This was very different to the \"continental model\" of the police force that had been developed in France, where the police force worked within the parameters of the absolutist state as an extension of the authority of the monarch and functioned as part of the governing state.\n\nIn 1863, the Metropolitan Police were issued with the distinctive custodian helmet, and in 1884 they switched to the use of whistles that could be heard from much further away. The Metropolitan Police became a model for the police forces in most countries, such as the United States, and most of the British Empire. Bobbies can still be found in many parts of the Commonwealth of Nations.\n\nIn Australia the first police force having centralised command as well as jurisdiction over an entire colony was the South Australia Police, formed in 1838 under Henry Inman.\n\nHowever, whilst the New South Wales Police Force was established in 1862, it was made up from a large number of policing and military units operating within the then Colony of New South Wales and traces its links back to the Royal Marines. The passing of the Police Regulation Act of 1862 essentially tightly regulated and centralised all of the police forces operating throughout the Colony of New South Wales.\n\nThe New South Wales Police Force remains the largest police force in Australia in terms of personnel and physical resources. It is also the only police force that requires its recruits to undertake university studies at the recruit level and has the recruit pay for their own education.\n\nIn 1566, the first police investigator of Rio de Janeiro was recruited. By the 17th century, most captaincies already had local units with law enforcement functions. On July 9, 1775 a Cavalry Regiment was created in the state of Minas Gerais for maintaining law and order. In 1808, the Portuguese royal family relocated to Brazil, because of the French invasion of Portugal. King João VI established the \"Intendência Geral de Polícia\" (General Police Intendancy) for investigations. He also created a Royal Police Guard for Rio de Janeiro in 1809. In 1831, after independence, each province started organizing its local \"military police\", with order maintenance tasks. The Federal Railroad Police was created in 1852, Federal Highway Police, was established in 1928, and Federal Police in 1967.\n\nIn Canada, the Royal Newfoundland Constabulary was founded in 1729, making it the first police force in present-day Canada. It was followed in 1834 by the Toronto Police, and in 1838 by police forces in Montreal and Quebec City. A national force, the Dominion Police, was founded in 1868. Initially the Dominion Police provided security for parliament, but its responsibilities quickly grew. The famous Royal Northwest Mounted Police was founded in 1873.\nThe merger of these two police forces in 1920 formed the world-famous Royal Canadian Mounted Police.\n\nIn Lebanon, modern police were established in 1861, with creation of the Gendarmerie.\n\nIn India, the police is under the control of respective States and union territories and is known to be under State Police Services (SPS). The candidates selected for the SPS are usually posted as Deputy Superintendent of Police or Assistant Commissioner of Police once their probationary period ends. On prescribed satisfactory service in the SPS, the officers are nominated to the Indian Police Service. The service color is usually dark blue and red, while the uniform color is \"Khaki\".\n\nIn British North America, policing was initially provided by local elected officials. For instance, the New York Sheriff's Office was founded in 1626, and the Albany County Sheriff's Department in the 1660s. In the colonial period, policing was provided by elected sheriffs and local militias.\n\nIn 1789 the U.S. Marshals Service was established, followed by other federal services such as the U.S. Parks Police (1791) and U.S. Mint Police (1792). The first city police services were established in Philadelphia in 1751, Richmond, Virginia in 1807, Boston in 1838, and New York in 1845. The U.S. Secret Service was founded in 1865 and was for some time the main investigative body for the federal government.\nIn the American Old West, policing was often of very poor quality. The Army often provided some policing alongside poorly resourced sheriffs and temporarily organized posses. Public organizations were supplemented by private contractors, notably the Pinkerton National Detective Agency, which was hired by individuals, businessmen, local governments and the federal government. At its height, the Pinkerton Agency's numbers exceeded those of the United States Army.\n\nIn recent years, in addition to federal, state, and local forces, some special districts have been formed to provide extra police protection in designated areas. These districts may be known as neighborhood improvement districts, crime prevention districts, or security districts.\n\nMichel Foucault claims that the contemporary concept of police as a paid and funded functionary of the state was developed by German and French legal scholars and practitioners in Public administration and Statistics in the 17th and early 18th centuries, most notably with Nicolas Delamare's \"Traité de la Police\" (\"Treatise on the Police\"), first published in 1705. The German \"Polizeiwissenschaft\" (Science of Police) first theorized by Philipp von Hörnigk a 17th-century Austrian Political economist and civil servant and much more famously by Johann Heinrich Gottlob Justi who produced an important theoretical work known as Cameral science on the formulation of police. Foucault cites Magdalene Humpert author of \"Bibliographie der Kameralwissenschaften\" (1937) in which the author makes note of a substantial bibliography was produced of over 4000 pieces of the practice of Polizeiwissenschaft however, this maybe a mistranslation of Foucault's own work the actual source of Magdalene Humpert states over 14,000 items were produced from the 16th century dates ranging from 1520-1850.\n\nAs conceptualized by the \"Polizeiwissenschaft\", according to Foucault the police had an administrative, economic and social duty (\"procuring abundance\"). It was in charge of demographic concerns and needed to be incorporated within the western political philosophy system of raison d'état and therefore giving the superficial appearance of empowering the population (and unwittingly supervising the population), which, according to mercantilist theory, was to be the main strength of the state. Thus, its functions largely overreached simple law enforcement activities and included public health concerns, urban planning (which was important because of the miasma theory of disease; thus, cemeteries were moved out of town, etc.), and surveillance of prices.\nThe concept of preventive policing, or policing to deter crime from taking place, gained influence in the late 18th century. Police Magistrate John Fielding, head of the Bow Street Runners, argued that \"...it is much better to prevent even one man from being a rogue than apprehending and bringing forty to justice.\"\n\nThe Utilitarian philosopher, Jeremy Bentham, promoted the views of Italian Marquis Cesare Beccaria, and disseminated a translated version of \"Essay on Crime in Punishment\". Bentham espoused the guiding principle of \"the greatest good for the greatest number:\n\nIt is better to prevent crimes than to punish them. This is the chief aim of every good system of legislation, which is the art of leading men to the greatest possible happiness or to the least possible misery, according to calculation of all the goods and evils of life.\n\nPatrick Colquhoun's influential work, \"A Treatise on the Police of the Metropolis\" (1797) was heavily influenced by Benthamite thought. Colquhoun's Thames River Police was founded on these principles, and in contrast to the Bow Street Runners, acted as a deterrent by their continual presence on the riverfront, in addition to being able to intervene if they spotted a crime in progress.\n\nEdwin Chadwick's 1829 article, \"Preventive police\" in the \"London Review\", argued that prevention ought to be the \"primary\" concern of a police body, which was not the case in practice. The reason, argued Chadwick, was that \"A preventive police would act more immediately by placing difficulties in obtaining the objects of temptation.\" In contrast to a deterrent of punishment, a preventive police force would deter criminality by making crime cost-ineffective - \"crime doesn't pay\". In the second draft of his 1829 Police Act, the \"object\" of the new Metropolitan Police, was changed by Robert Peel to the \"principal object,\" which was the \"prevention of crime.\" Later historians would attribute the perception of England's \"appearance of orderliness and love of public order\" to the preventive principle entrenched in Peel's police system.\n\nDevelopment of modern police forces around the world was contemporary to the formation of the state, later defined by sociologist Max Weber as achieving a \"monopoly on the legitimate use of physical force\" and which was primarily exercised by the police and the military. Marxist theory situates the development of the modern state as part of the rise of capitalism, in which the police are one component of the bourgeoisie's repressive apparatus for subjugating the working class. By contrast, the Peelian principles argue that \"the power of the police...is dependent on public approval of their existence, actions and behavior\", a philosophy known as policing by consent.\n\nPolice forces include both preventive (uniformed) police and detectives. Terminology varies from country to country. Police functions include protecting life and property, enforcing criminal law, criminal investigations, regulating traffic, crowd control, and other public safety duties. Regardless of size, police forces are generally organized as a hierarchy with multiple ranks. The exact structures and the names of rank vary considerably by country.\n\nThe police who wear uniforms make up the majority of a police service's personnel. Their main duty is to respond to calls to the emergency telephone number. When not responding to these call-outs, they will do work aimed at preventing crime, such as patrols. The uniformed police are known by varying names such as preventive police, the uniform branch/division, administrative police, order police, the patrol bureau/division or patrol. In Australia and the United Kingdom, patrol personnel are also known as \"general duties\" officers. Atypically, Brazil's preventive police are known as Military Police.\n\nAs implied by the name, uniformed police wear uniforms. They perform functions that require an immediate recognition of an officer's legal authority and a potential need for force. Most commonly this means intervening to stop a crime in progress and securing the scene of a crime that has already happened. Besides dealing with crime, these officers may also manage and monitor traffic, carry out community policing duties, maintain order at public events or carry out searches for missing people (in 2012, the latter accounted for 14% of police time in the United Kingdom). As most of these duties must be available as a 24/7 service, uniformed police are required to do shift work.\n\nPolice detectives are responsible for investigations and detective work. Detectives may be called Investigations Police, Judiciary/Judicial Police, and Criminal Police. In the UK, they are often referred to by the name of their department, the Criminal Investigation Department (CID). Detectives typically make up roughly 15–25% of a police service's personnel.\n\nDetectives, in contrast to uniformed police, typically wear 'business attire' in bureaucratic and investigative functions where a uniformed presence would be either a distraction or intimidating, but a need to establish police authority still exists. \"Plainclothes\" officers dress in attire consistent with that worn by the general public for purposes of blending in.\n\nIn some cases, police are assigned to work \"undercover\", where they conceal their police identity to investigate crimes, such as organized crime or narcotics crime, that are unsolvable by other means. In some cases this type of policing shares aspects with espionage.\n\nThe relationship between detective and uniformed branches varies by country. In the United States, there is high variation within the country itself. Many US police departments require detectives to spend some time on temporary assignments in the patrol division. The argument is that rotating officers helps the detectives to better understand the uniformed officers' work, to promote cross-training in a wider variety of skills, and prevent \"cliques\" that can contribute to corruption or other unethical behavior. Conversely, some countries regard detective work as being an entirely separate profession, with detectives working in separate agencies and recruited without having to serve in uniform. A common compromise in English-speaking countries is that most detectives are recruited from the uniformed branch, but once qualified they tend to spend the rest of their careers in the detective branch.\n\nAnother point of variation is whether detectives have extra status. In some forces, such as the New York Police Department and Philadelphia Police Department, a regular detective holds a higher rank than a regular police officer. In others, such as British police forces and Canadian police forces, a regular detective has equal status with regular uniformed officers. Officers still have to take exams to move to the detective branch, but the move is regarded as being a specialization, rather than a promotion.\n\nPolice services often include part-time or volunteer officers, some of whom have other jobs outside policing. These may be paid positions or entirely volunteer. These are known by a variety of names, such as reserves, auxiliary police or special constables.\n\nOther volunteer organizations work with the police and perform some of their duties. Groups in the U.S. including Retired and Senior Volunteer Program, Community Emergency Response Team and the Boy Scout's Police Explorers provide training, traffic and crowd control, disaster response and other policing duties. In the U.S., the Volunteers in Police Service program assists over 200,000 volunteers in almost 2,000 programs. Volunteers may also work on the support staff. Examples of these schemes are Volunteers in Police Service in the US, Police Support Volunteers in the UK and Volunteers in Policing in New South Wales.\n\nSpecialized preventive and detective groups, or Specialist Investigation Departments exist within many law enforcement organizations either for dealing with particular types of crime, such as traffic law enforcement and crash investigation, homicide, or fraud; or for situations requiring specialized skills, such as underwater search, aviation, explosive device disposal (\"bomb squad\"), and computer crime.\n\nMost larger jurisdictions also employ specially selected and trained quasi-military units armed with military-grade weapons for the purposes of dealing with particularly violent situations beyond the capability of a patrol officer response, including high-risk warrant service and barricaded suspects. In the United States these units go by a variety of names, but are commonly known as SWAT (Special Weapons And Tactics) teams.\n\nIn counterinsurgency-type campaigns, select and specially trained units of police armed and equipped as light infantry have been designated as police field forces who perform paramilitary-type patrols and ambushes whilst retaining their police powers in areas that were highly dangerous.\n\nBecause their situational mandate typically focuses on removing innocent bystanders from dangerous people and dangerous situations, not violent resolution, they are often equipped with non-lethal tactical tools like chemical agents, \"flashbang\" and concussion grenades, and rubber bullets. The London Metropolitan police's Specialist Firearms Command (CO19) is a group of armed police used in dangerous situations including hostage taking, armed robbery/assault and terrorism.\n\nPolice may have administrative duties that are not directly related to enforcing the law, such as issuing firearms licenses. The extent that police have these functions varies among countries, with police in France, Germany, and other continental European countries handling such tasks to a greater extent than British counterparts.\n\nMilitary police may refer to:\n\n\nSome Islamic societies have religious police, who enforce the application of Islamic Sharia law. Their authority may include the power to arrest unrelated men and women caught socializing, anyone engaged in homosexual behavior or prostitution; to enforce Islamic dress codes, and store closures during Islamic prayer time.\n\nThey enforce Muslim dietary laws, prohibit the consumption or sale of alcoholic beverages and pork, and seize banned consumer products and media regarded as un-Islamic, such as CDs/DVDs of various Western musical groups, television shows and film. In Saudi Arabia, the Mutaween actively prevent the practice or proselytizing of non-Islamic religions within Saudi Arabia, where they are banned.\nMost countries are members of the International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol), established to detect and fight transnational crime and provide for international co-operation and co-ordination of other police activities, such as notifying relatives of the death of foreign nationals. Interpol does not conduct investigations or arrests by itself, but only serves as a central point for information on crime, suspects and criminals. Political crimes are excluded from its competencies.\n\nThe terms international policing, transnational policing, and/or global policing began to be used from the early 1990s onwards to describe forms of policing that transcended the boundaries of the sovereign nation-state (Nadelmann, 1993), (Sheptycki, 1995). These terms refer in variable ways to practices and forms for policing that, in some sense, transcend national borders. This includes a variety of practices, but international police cooperation, criminal intelligence exchange between police agencies working in different nation-states, and police development-aid to weak, failed or failing states are the three types that have received the most scholarly attention.\n\nHistorical studies reveal that policing agents have undertaken a variety of cross-border police missions for many years (Deflem, 2002). For example, in the 19th century a number of European policing agencies undertook cross-border surveillance because of concerns about anarchist agitators and other political radicals. A notable example of this was the occasional surveillance by Prussian police of Karl Marx during the years he remained resident in London. The interests of public police agencies in cross-border co-operation in the control of political radicalism and ordinary law crime were primarily initiated in Europe, which eventually led to the establishment of Interpol before the Second World War. There are also many interesting examples of cross-border policing under private auspices and by municipal police forces that date back to the 19th century (Nadelmann, 1993). It has been established that modern policing has transgressed national boundaries from time to time almost from its inception. It is also generally agreed that in the post–Cold War era this type of practice became more significant and frequent (Sheptycki, 2000).\n\nNot a lot of empirical work on the practices of inter/transnational information and intelligence sharing has been undertaken. A notable exception is James Sheptycki's study of police cooperation in the English Channel region (2002), which provides a systematic content analysis of information exchange files and a description of how these transnational information and intelligence exchanges are transformed into police case-work. The study showed that transnational police information sharing was routinized in the cross-Channel region from 1968 on the basis of agreements directly between the police agencies and without any formal agreement between the countries concerned. By 1992, with the signing of the Schengen Treaty, which formalized aspects of police information exchange across the territory of the European Union, there were worries that much, if not all, of this intelligence sharing was opaque, raising questions about the efficacy of the accountability mechanisms governing police information sharing in Europe (Joubert and Bevers, 1996).\n\nStudies of this kind outside of Europe are even rarer, so it is difficult to make generalizations, but one small-scale study that compared transnational police information and intelligence sharing practices at specific cross-border locations in North America and Europe confirmed that low visibility of police information and intelligence sharing was a common feature (Alain, 2001). Intelligence-led policing is now common practice in most advanced countries (Ratcliffe, 2007) and it is likely that police intelligence sharing and information exchange has a common morphology around the world (Ratcliffe, 2007). James Sheptycki has analyzed the effects of the new information technologies on the organization of policing-intelligence and suggests that a number of 'organizational pathologies' have arisen that make the functioning of security-intelligence processes in transnational policing deeply problematic. He argues that transnational police information circuits help to \"compose the panic scenes of the security-control society\". The paradoxical effect is that, the harder policing agencies work to produce security, the greater are feelings of insecurity.\n\nPolice development-aid to weak, failed or failing states is another form of transnational policing that has garnered attention. This form of transnational policing plays an increasingly important role in United Nations peacekeeping and this looks set to grow in the years ahead, especially as the international community seeks to develop the rule of law and reform security institutions in States recovering from conflict (Goldsmith and Sheptycki, 2007) With transnational police development-aid the imbalances of power between donors and recipients are stark and there are questions about the applicability and transportability of policing models between jurisdictions (Hills, 2009).\n\nPerhaps the greatest question regarding the future development of transnational policing is: in whose interest is it? At a more practical level, the question translates into one about how to make transnational policing institutions democratically accountable (Sheptycki, 2004). For example, according to the Global Accountability Report for 2007 (Lloyd, et al. 2007) Interpol had the lowest scores in its category (IGOs), coming in tenth with a score of 22% on overall accountability capabilities (p. 19). As this report points out, and the existing academic literature on transnational policing seems to confirm, this is a secretive area and one not open to civil society involvement.\n\nIn many jurisdictions, police officers carry firearms, primarily handguns, in the normal course of their duties. In the United Kingdom (except Northern Ireland), Iceland, Ireland, Norway, New Zealand, and Malta, with the exception of specialist units, officers do not carry firearms as a matter of course.\n\nPolice often have specialist units for handling armed offenders, and similar dangerous situations, and can (depending on local laws), in some extreme circumstances, call on the military (since Military Aid to the Civil Power is a role of many armed forces). Perhaps the most high-profile example of this was, in 1980 the Metropolitan Police handing control of the Iranian Embassy Siege to the Special Air Service.\n\nThey can also be armed with non-lethal (more accurately known as \"less than lethal\" or \"less-lethal\") weaponry, particularly for riot control. Non-lethal weapons include batons, tear gas, riot control agents, rubber bullets, riot shields, water cannons and electroshock weapons. Police officers often carry handcuffs to restrain suspects. The use of firearms or deadly force is typically a last resort only to be used when necessary to save human life, although some jurisdictions (such as Brazil) allow its use against fleeing felons and escaped convicts. A \"shoot-to-kill\" policy was recently introduced in South Africa, which allows police to use deadly force against any person who poses a significant threat to them or civilians. With the country having one of the highest rates of violent crime, president Jacob Zuma states that South Africa needs to handle crime differently from other countries.\n\nModern police forces make extensive use of two-way radio communications equipment, carried both on the person and installed in vehicles, to co-ordinate their work, share information, and get help quickly. In recent years, vehicle-installed mobile data terminals have enhanced the ability of police communications, enabling easier dispatching of calls, criminal background checks on persons of interest to be completed in a matter of seconds, and updating officers' daily activity log and other, required reports on a real-time basis. Other common pieces of police equipment include flashlights/torches, whistles, police notebooks and \"ticket books\" or citations.\n\nPolice vehicles are used for detaining, patrolling and transporting. The average police patrol vehicle is a specially modified, four door sedan (saloon in British English). Police vehicles are usually marked with appropriate logos and are equipped with sirens and flashing light bars to aid in making others aware of police presence.\n\nUnmarked vehicles are used primarily for sting operations or apprehending criminals without alerting them to their presence. Some police forces use unmarked or minimally marked cars for traffic law enforcement, since drivers slow down at the sight of marked police vehicles and unmarked vehicles make it easier for officers to catch speeders and traffic violators. This practice is controversial, with for example, New York State banning this practice in 1996 on the grounds that it endangered motorists who might be pulled over by people impersonating police officers.\n\nMotorcycles are also commonly used, particularly in locations that a car may not be able to reach, to control potential public order situations involving meetings of motorcyclists and often in escort duties where motorcycle police officers can quickly clear a path for escorted vehicles. Bicycle patrols are used in some areas because they allow for more open interaction with the public. In addition, their quieter operation can facilitate approaching suspects unawares and can help in pursuing them attempting to escape on foot.\n\nPolice forces use an array of specialty vehicles such as helicopters, airplanes, watercraft, mobile command posts, vans, trucks, all-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, and armored vehicles.\n\nPolice cars may also contain fire extinguishers or defibrillators.\n\nThe advent of the police car, two-way radio, and telephone in the early 20th century transformed policing into a reactive strategy that focused on responding to calls for service. With this transformation, police command and control became more centralized.\n\nIn the United States, August Vollmer introduced other reforms, including education requirements for police officers. O.W. Wilson, a student of Vollmer, helped reduce corruption and introduce professionalism in Wichita, Kansas, and later in the Chicago Police Department. Strategies employed by O.W. Wilson included rotating officers from community to community to reduce their vulnerability to corruption, establishing of a non-partisan police board to help govern the police force, a strict merit system for promotions within the department, and an aggressive recruiting drive with higher police salaries to attract professionally qualified officers. During the professionalism era of policing, law enforcement agencies concentrated on dealing with felonies and other serious crime and conducting visible car patrols in between, rather than broader focus on crime prevention.\n\nThe Kansas City Preventive Patrol study in the early 1970s showed flaws in this strategy. It found that aimless car patrols did little to deter crime and often went unnoticed by the public. Patrol officers in cars had insufficient contact and interaction with the community, leading to a social rift between the two. In the 1980s and 1990s, many law enforcement agencies began to adopt community policing strategies, and others adopted problem-oriented policing.\n\n'Broken windows' policing was another, related approach introduced in the 1980s by James Q. Wilson and George L. Kelling, who suggested that police should pay greater attention to minor \"quality of life\" offenses and disorderly conduct. This method was popularised in the early 1990s by police chief William J. Bratton and New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani.\n\nThe concept behind this method is simple: broken windows, graffiti, and other physical destruction or degradation of property, greatly increases the chances of more criminal activities and destruction of property. When criminals see the abandoned vehicles, trash, and deplorable property, they assume that authorities do not care and do not take active approaches to correct problems in these areas. Therefore, correcting the small problems prevents more serious criminal activity.\n\nBuilding upon these earlier models, intelligence-led policing has emerged as the dominant philosophy guiding police strategy. Intelligence-led policing and problem-oriented policing are complementary strategies, both of which involve systematic use of information. Although it still lacks a universally accepted definition, the crux of intelligence-led policing is an emphasis on the collection and analysis of information to guide police operations, rather than the reverse.\n\nA related development is evidence-based policing. In a similar vein to evidence-based policy, evidence-based policing is the use of controlled experiments to find which methods of policing are more effective. Leading advocates of evidence-based policing include the criminologist Lawrence W. Sherman and philanthropist Jerry Lee. Findings from controlled experiments include the Minneapolis Domestic Violence Experiment, evidence that patrols deter crime if they are concentrated in crime hotspots and that restricting police powers to shoot suspects does not cause an increase in crime or violence against police officers. Use of experiments to assess the usefulness of strategies has been endorsed by many police services and institutions, including the US Police Foundation and the UK College of Policing.\n\nIn many nations, criminal procedure law has been developed to regulate officers' discretion, so that they do not arbitrarily or unjustly exercise their powers of arrest, search and seizure, and use of force. In the United States, \"Miranda v. Arizona\" led to the widespread use of Miranda warnings or constitutional warnings.\n\nIn \"Miranda\" the court created safeguards against self-incriminating statements made after an arrest. The court held that \"The prosecution may not use statements, whether exculpatory or inculpatory, stemming from questioning initiated by law enforcement officers after a person has been taken into custody or otherwise deprived of his freedom of action in any significant way, unless it demonstrates the use of procedural safeguards effective to secure the Fifth Amendment's privilege against self-incrimination\"\n\nPolice in the United States are also prohibited from holding criminal suspects for more than a reasonable amount of time (usually 24–48 hours) before arraignment, using torture, abuse or physical threats to extract confessions, using excessive force to effect an arrest, and searching suspects' bodies or their homes without a warrant obtained upon a showing of probable cause. The four exceptions to the constitutional requirement of a search warrant are:\n\nIn Terry v. Ohio (1968) the court divided seizure into two parts, the investigatory stop and arrest. The court further held that during an investigatory stop a police officer's search \" [is] confined to what [is] minimally necessary to determine whether [a suspect] is armed, and the intrusion, which [is] made for the sole purpose of protecting himself and others nearby, [is] confined to ascertaining the presence of weapons\" (U.S. Supreme Court). Before Terry, every police encounter constituted an arrest, giving the police officer the full range of search authority. Search authority during a Terry stop (investigatory stop) is limited to weapons only.\n\nUsing deception for confessions is permitted, but not coercion. There are exceptions or exigent circumstances such as an articulated need to disarm a suspect or searching a suspect who has already been arrested (Search Incident to an Arrest). The Posse Comitatus Act severely restricts the use of the military for police activity, giving added importance to police SWAT units.\n\nBritish police officers are governed by similar rules, such as those introduced to England and Wales under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (PACE), but generally have greater powers. They may, for example, legally search any suspect who has been arrested, or their vehicles, home or business premises, without a warrant, and may seize anything they find in a search as evidence.\n\nAll police officers in the United Kingdom, whatever their actual rank, are 'constables' in terms of their legal position. This means that a newly appointed constable has the same arrest powers as a Chief Constable or Commissioner. However, certain higher ranks have additional powers to authorize certain aspects of police operations, such as a power to authorize a search of a suspect's house (section 18 PACE in England and Wales) by an officer of the rank of Inspector, or the power to authorize a suspect's detention beyond 24 hours by a Superintendent.\n\nPolice services commonly include units for investigating crimes committed by the police themselves. These units are typically called Inspectorate-General, or in the US, \"internal affairs\". In some countries separate organizations outside the police exist for such purposes, such as the British Independent Office for Police Conduct.\n\nLikewise, some state and local jurisdictions, for example, Springfield, Illinois have similar outside review organizations. The Police Service of Northern Ireland is investigated by the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland, an external agency set up as a result of the Patten report into policing the province. In the Republic of Ireland the Garda Síochána is investigated by the Garda Síochána Ombudsman Commission, an independent commission that replaced the Garda Complaints Board in May 2007.\n\nThe Special Investigations Unit of Ontario, Canada, is one of only a few civilian agencies around the world responsible for investigating circumstances involving police and civilians that have resulted in a death, serious injury, or allegations of sexual assault. The agency has made allegations of insufficient cooperation from various police services hindering their investigations.\n\nIn Hong Kong, any allegations of corruption within the police will be investigated by the Independent Commission Against Corruption and the Independent Police Complaints Council, two agencies which are independent of the police force.\n\nDue to a long-term decline in public confidence for law enforcement in the United States, body cameras worn by police officers are under consideration.\n\nPolice forces also find themselves under criticism for their use of force, particularly deadly force. Specifically, tension increases when a police officer of one ethnic group harms or kills a suspect of another one. In the United States, such events occasionally spark protests and accusations of racism against police and allegations that police departments practice racial profiling.\nIn the United States since the 1960s, concern over such issues has increasingly weighed upon law enforcement agencies, courts and legislatures at every level of government. Incidents such as the 1965 Watts Riots, the videotaped 1991 beating by Los Angeles Police officers of Rodney King, and the riot following their acquittal have been suggested by some people to be evidence that U.S. police are dangerously lacking in appropriate controls.\nThe fact that this trend has occurred contemporaneously with the rise of the civil rights movement, the \"War on Drugs\", and a precipitous rise in violent crime from the 1960s to the 1990s has made questions surrounding the role, administration and scope of police authority increasingly complicated.\n\nPolice departments and the local governments that oversee them in some jurisdictions have attempted to mitigate some of these issues through community outreach programs and community policing to make the police more accessible to the concerns of local communities, by working to increase hiring diversity, by updating training of police in their responsibilities to the community and under the law, and by increased oversight within the department or by civilian commissions.\n\nIn cases in which such measures have been lacking or absent, civil lawsuits have been brought by the United States Department of Justice against local law enforcement agencies, authorized under the 1994 Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act. This has compelled local departments to make organizational changes, enter into consent decree settlements to adopt such measures, and submit to oversight by the Justice Department.\n\nSince 1855, the Supreme Court of the United States has consistently ruled that law enforcement officers have no duty to protect any individual, despite the motto \"protect and serve\". Their duty is to enforce the law in general. The first such case was in 1855 (\"\") and the most recent in 2005 (\"Town of Castle Rock v. Gonzales\").\n\nIn contrast, the police are entitled to protect private rights in some jurisdictions. To ensure that the police would not interfere in the regular competencies of the courts of law, some police acts require that the police may only interfere in such cases where protection from courts cannot be obtained in time, and where, without interference of the police, the realization of the private right would be impeded. This would, for example, allow police to establish a restaurant guest's identity and forward it to the innkeeper in a case where the guest cannot pay the bill at nighttime because his wallet had just been stolen from the restaurant table.\n\nIn addition, there are Federal law enforcement agencies in the United States whose mission includes providing protection for executives such as the President and accompanying family members, visiting foreign dignitaries, and other high-ranking individuals. Such agencies include the United States Secret Service and the United States Park Police.\n\nPolice forces are usually organized and funded by some level of government. The level of government responsible for policing varies from place to place, and may be at the national, regional or local level. Some countries have police forces that serve the same territory, with their jurisdiction depending on the type of crime or other circumstances. Other countries, such as Austria, Chile, Israel, New Zealand, the Philippines, South Africa and Sweden, have a single national police force.\n\nIn some places with multiple national police forces, one common arrangement is to have a civilian police force and a paramilitary gendarmerie, such as the Police Nationale and National Gendarmerie in France. The French policing system spread to other countries through the Napoleonic Wars and the French colonial empire. Another example is the Policía Nacional and Guardia Civil in Spain. In both France and Spain, the civilian force polices urban areas and the paramilitary force polices rural areas. Italy has a similar arrangement with the Polizia di Stato and Carabinieri, though their jurisdictions overlap more. Some countries have separate agencies for uniformed police and detectives, such as the Military Police and Civil Police in Brazil and the Carabineros and Investigations Police in Chile.\n\nOther countries have sub-national police forces, but for the most part their jurisdictions do not overlap. In many countries, especially federations, there may be two or more tiers of police force, each serving different levels of government and enforcing different subsets of the law. In Australia and Germany, the majority of policing is carried out by state (i.e. provincial) police forces, which are supplemented by a federal police force. Though not a federation, the United Kingdom has a similar arrangement, where policing is primarily the responsibility of a regional police force and specialist units exist at the national level. In Canada, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) are the federal police, while municipalities can decide whether to run a local police service or to contract local policing duties to a larger one. Most urban areas have a local police service, while most rural areas contract it to the RCMP, or to the provincial police in Ontario and Quebec.\n\nThe United States has a highly decentralized and fragmented system of law enforcement, with over 17,000 state and local law enforcement agencies. These agencies include local police, county police (often in the form of a sheriff's office), state police and federal law enforcement agencies. Federal agencies, such as the FBI, only have jurisdiction over federal crimes or those that involve more than one state. Other federal agencies have jurisdiction over a specific type of crime. Examples include the Federal Protective Service, which patrols and protects government buildings; the postal police, which protect postal buildings, vehicles and items; the Park Police, which protect national parks; and Amtrak Police, which patrol Amtrak stations and trains. There are also some government agencies that perform police functions in addition to other duties, such as the Coast Guard.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41550219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41550219", "title": "Politics of the International Space Station", "text": "Politics of the International Space Station\n\nPolitics of the International Space Station begins with the 1972 milestone in co-operation between the United States and the Soviet Union in space, the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project. This cooperative venture resulted in the July 1975 docking of Soyuz 19 with an Apollo spacecraft. From 1978 to 1987, the USSR's Interkosmos programme included allied Warsaw Pact countries, and countries which were not Soviet allies, such as India, Syria and France, in manned and unmanned missions to Space stations Salyut 6 and 7. In 1986 the USSR extended this co-operation to a dozen countries in the Mir programme. From 1994 to 1998, NASA Space Shuttles and crew visited MIR in the Shuttle–Mir Programme. In 1998, assembly of the International Space Station began.\n\nIn March 2012, a meeting in Quebec City between the leaders of the Canadian Space Agency and those from Japan, Russia, the United States and involved European nations resulted in a renewed pledge to maintain the International Space Station until at least 2020. NASA reports to be still committed to the principles of the mission but also to use the station in new ways, which were not elaborated. CSA President Steve MacLean stated his belief that the station's Canadarm will continue to function properly until 2028, alluding to Canada's likely extension of its involvement beyond 2020.\n\nOwnership of modules, station usage by participant nations, and responsibilities for station resupply are established by the Space Station Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA). This international treaty was signed on 28 January 1998 by the United States of America, Russia, Japan, Canada and eleven member states of the European Space Agency (Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, The Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom). With the exception of the United Kingdom, all of the signatories went on to contribute to the Space Station project. A second layer of agreements was then achieved, called Memoranda of Understanding (MOU), between NASA and ESA, CSA, RKA and JAXA. These agreements are then further split, such as for the contractual obligations between nations, and trading of partners' rights and obligations. Use of the Russian Orbital Segment is also negotiated at this level.\nIn addition to these main intergovernmental agreements, Brazil originally joined the programme as a bilateral partner of the United States by a contract with NASA to supply hardware. In return, NASA would provide Brazil with access to its ISS facilities on-orbit, as well as a flight opportunity for one Brazilian astronaut during the course of the ISS programme. However, due to cost issues, the subcontractor Embraer was unable to provide the promised ExPrESS pallet, and Brazil left the programme in 2007. Italy has a similar contract with NASA to provide comparable services, although Italy also takes part in the programme directly via its membership in ESA. Expanding the partnership would require unanimous agreement of the existing partners. Chinese participation has been prevented by unilateral US opposition.\nThe heads of both the South Korean and Indian space agency ISRO announced at the first plenary session of the 2009 International Astronautical Congress that their nations wished to join the ISS programme, with talks due to begin in 2010. The heads of agency also expressed support for extending ISS lifetime. European countries not part of the programme will be allowed access to the station in a three-year trial period, ESA officials say.\n\nThe Russian part of the station is operated and controlled by the Russian Federation's space agency and provides Russia with the right to nearly one-half of the crew time for the ISS. The allocation of remaining crew time (three to four crew members of the total permanent crew of six) and hardware within the other sections of the station is as follows: \"Columbus\": 51% for the ESA, 46.7% for NASA, and 2.3% for CSA. \"Kibō\": 51% for the JAXA, 46.7% for NASA, and 2.3% for CSA. \"Destiny\": 97.7% for NASA and 2.3% for CSA. Crew time, electrical power and rights to purchase supporting services (such as data upload and download and communications) are divided 76.6% for NASA, 12.8% for JAXA, 8.3% for ESA, and 2.3% for CSA.\n\nChina is not an ISS partner, and no Chinese nationals have been aboard. China has its own contemporary manned space programme, Project 921, and has carried out co-operation and exchanges with countries such as Russia and Germany in manned and unmanned space projects. China launched its first experimental space station, Tiangong 1, in September 2011, and has officially initiated the permanently manned Chinese space station project.\n\nIn 2007, Chinese vice-minister of science and technology Li Xueyong said that China would like to participate in the ISS. In 2010, ESA Director-General Jean-Jacques Dordain stated his agency was ready to propose to the other 4 partners that China be invited to join the partnership, but that this needs to be a collective decision by all the current partners. While ESA is open to China's inclusion, the US is against it. US concerns over the transfer of technology that could be used for military purposes echo similar concerns over Russia's participation prior to its membership. Concerns over Russian involvement were overcome and NASA became solely dependent upon Russian crew capsules when its shuttles were grounded after the Columbia accident in 2003, and again after its retirement in 2011. The Chinese government has voiced a belief that international exchanges and co-operation in the field of aerospace engineering should be intensified on the basis of mutual benefit, peaceful use and common development. China's manned Shenzhou spacecraft use an APAS docking system, developed after a 1994–1995 deal for the transfer of Russian Soyuz spacecraft technology. Included in the agreement was training, provision of Soyuz capsules, life support systems, docking systems, and space suits. American observers comment that Shenzhou spacecraft could dock at the ISS if it became politically feasible, whilst Chinese engineers say work would still be required on the rendezvous system. Shenzhou 7 passed within about 50 kilometres of the ISS.\n\nAmerican co-operation with China in space is limited, though efforts have been made by both sides to improve relations, but in 2011 new American legislation further strengthened legal barriers to co-operation, preventing NASA co-operation with China or Chinese owned companies, even the expenditure of funds used to host Chinese visitors at NASA facilities, unless specifically authorised by new laws,\nat the same time China, Europe and Russia have a co-operative relationship in several space exploration projects. Between 2007 and 2011, the space agencies of Europe, Russia and China carried out the ground-based preparations in the Mars500 project, which complement the ISS-based preparations for a manned mission to Mars.\n\nBrazil joined the ISS as a partner of the United States and this included a contract with NASA to supply hardware to the Space Station. In return, NASA would provide Brazil with access to NASA ISS facilities on-orbit, as well as a flight opportunity for one Brazilian astronaut during the course of the ISS programme. However, due to cost issues, the subcontractor Embraer was unable to provide the promised ExPrESS pallet, and Brazil left the programme in 2007. Regardless, the first Brazilian astronaut, Marcos Pontes, was sent to ISS in April 2006 for Expedition 13. This was Brazil's first space traveler and he returned to Earth safely. Pontes trained on the Space Shuttle and Soyuz, but ended up going up with the Russians, although he did work at the U.S. Johnson Space Center after returning to Earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "32094119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32094119", "title": "QSAS", "text": "QSAS\n\nQatar Sustainability Assessment System (QSAS) is a green building certification system developed for the State of Qatar. The primary objective of Qatar Sustainability Assessment System [QSAS] is to create a sustainable built environment that minimizes ecological impact while addressing the specific regional needs and environment of Qatar.\n\nQSAS was developed by the T.C. Chan Center for Building Simulation and Energy Studies at the University of Pennsylvania in collaboration with and on behalf of the Gulf Organization for Research and Development [GORD]. Since its deployment in 2009, over 128 buildings in Qatar have been certified through QSAS. In December 2010, QSAS was adopted into the curriculum of the environmental design faculty at King Fahd University and Qatar University. In March, 2011 the State of Qatar integrated QSAS into the Qatar Construction Specifications [QCS] making the implementation of certain criteria mandatory for buildings developed in Qatar.\n\nThe development of the rating system took advantage of a comprehensive review of combined best practices employed by a mix of established international and regional rating systems. This review has been performed while taking into consideration the needs that are specific to Qatar’s local environment, culture, and policies. This has led to adaptations and additions to sustainability criteria. Measurements for the rating system are designed to be performance-based and quantifiable. The result is a performance-based sustainable building rating system customized to the unique conditions and requirements of the State of Qatar.\n\nQSAS consists of a series of sustainable categories and criteria, each with a direct impact on environmental stress mitigation. Each category measures a different aspect of the project’s environmental impact. The categories define these broad impacts and address ways in which a project can mitigate the negative environmental effects. These categories are then broken down into specific criteria that measure and define individual issues. These issues range from a thorough review of water consumption to an assessment of light quality. Each criterion specifies a process for measuring individual aspects of environmental impact and for documenting the degree to which the requirements have been met. A score is then awarded to each criterion based on the degree of compliance.\n\nThe eight categories of QSAS are the following:\n\nUrban Connectivity [UC]\n\nThe Urban Connectivity category consists of factors associated with the urban environment such as zoning, transportation networks and loadings. Loadings on the urban environment include traffic congestion and pollution.\n\nSite [S]\n\nThe Site category consists of factors associated with land use such as land conservation or remediation and site selection, planning and development.\n\nEnergy [E]\n\nThe Energy category consists of factors associated with energy demand of buildings, the efficiency of energy delivery, and the use of fossil energy sources that result in harmful emissions.\n\nWater [W]\n\nThe Water category consists of factors associated with water consumption and its associated burden on municipal supply and treatment systems.\n\nMaterials [M]\n\nThe Materials category consists of factors associated with material extraction, processing, manufacturing, distribution, use/re-use, and disposal.\n\nIndoor Environment [IE]\n\nThe Indoor Environment category consists of factors associated with indoor environmental quality such as thermal comfort, air quality, acoustic quality, and light quality.\n\nCultural & Economic Value [CE]\n\nThe Cultural and Economic Value category consists of factors associated with cultural conservation and support of the national economy.\n\nManagement & Operations [MO]\n\nThe Management and Operations category consists of factors associated with building design management and operations.\n\nQSAS consists of several resources used to facilitate the assessment of sustainability performance for buildings in Qatar. Target users for the resources are building planners, developers, owners, designers, engineers and environmentalists. The major resources available to QSAS members include the following:\n\n\nQSAS has been developed to rate different building types as well as projects on the Neighborhood scale for each phase of a building’s lifespan. The building schemes that can be rated with QSAS include:\n\n\nPhases that can be rated using QSAS include:\n\n\nThe various schemes use similar categories and criteria across each system to facilitate use. The measurements, calculations, simulations, scoring ranges, and weights change accordingly for each building type and project phase.\n\nThe aim for all QSAS criteria and their associated measurements is to be performance-based and quantifiable on the scoring scale of -1 to 3 (-1, 0, 1, 2, 3) or 0 to 3, depending on the criterion’s level of impact. Each category and criterion has an associated weight based on its relative environmental, social, and economic impact. Once a score is assigned to each criterion in the assessment system, the values are multiplied by the weight and a cumulative final score is determined. \n\nQSAS consists of six certification levels to measure the project’s impact. A building that obtains a cumulative final score below 0 does not meet the baseline and will be denied certification. Certification can only be achieved when the final score is greater than or equal to 0, earning a rating of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 stars. The highest score a building can achieve is 3.0 and the highest certification level is 6 stars.\n\nProfessional Accreditation is granted to those qualified individuals who demonstrate in‐depth knowledge of the Qatar Sustainability Assessment System (QSAS) and sustainable building practices. The role of the accredited professional or QSAS Certified Green Professional (CGP) is to facilitate the submittal of projects for assessment under QSAS. The candidate must meet the following requirements to receive a QSAS CGP certificate:\n\n\nThe T.C. Chan Center and GORD are currently working on further developing and expanding QSAS to other regions in the Middle East.\n\n"}
{"id": "5877622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5877622", "title": "R v Adams (1957)", "text": "R v Adams (1957)\n\nR v Adams [1957] Crim LR 365 is an English case that allows a doctor to hasten death (as a secondary intention) using analgesic medications such as heroin and morphine.\n\nThe defendant, John Bodkin Adams, was a doctor who was tried on one count of murder by \"easing the passing\" of an elderly patient, Mrs Alice Morrell. The police claimed that Adams had murdered a number of elderly patients, and suggested his modus operandi was to administer heroin and morphine with the intention making his patients addicted and under his influence, induced them to leave him legacies in cash or kind in their wills and finally giving them sufficiently large doses of drugs to cause their deaths. One patient's bequest included a Rolls-Royce, although Mrs Morrell did not in fact leave Adams anything in her final will.\n\nIt was said that a doctor has no special defence, but \"he is entitled to do all that is proper and necessary to relieve pain even if the measures he takes may incidentally shorten life\" (i.e. as a secondary intention). \nOn these grounds, the defendant was acquitted.\nThis case was the first to formulate a \"double effect\" in respect of the \"mens rea\" of murder. Liability for murder can be avoided if medicine which is beneficial to the patient is given, despite the knowledge that death will occur as a side effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27177398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27177398", "title": "Review of Civil Litigation Costs", "text": "Review of Civil Litigation Costs\n\nThe Review of Civil Litigation Costs, or Jackson Review or Jackson Proposals, is a review of civil litigation costs in England and Wales conducted by Lord Justice Jackson in 2009, the final report, known as the Jackson Report, which was presented in January 2010.\n\nThe senior judiciary were concerned about the cost of civil justice in England and Wales, in particular because the costs were often disproportionate to the issues, and in late 2008 the Master of the Rolls, Lord Clarke of Stone-cum-Ebony asked Lord Justice Jackson to conduct a review into civil litigation costs.\nThe review became known as the Jackson Review.\n\nIt commenced in January 2009 and took about a year to complete, a preliminary report being published on 8 May 2009. On 14 January 2010, Jackson published the final report to the new Master of the Rolls, Lord Neuberger.\n\nJackson was assisted in his work by a panel of assessors comprising: \n\nThe final report is 557 pages long.\n\nThe main findings and recommendations include:\n\nAfter the Jackson Report was published, the Judicial Executive Board agreed to support the recommendations of the final report and established a Judicial Steering Group with the following members:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2050446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2050446", "title": "Schwabenspiegel", "text": "Schwabenspiegel\n\nThe Schwabenspiegel is a legal code, written in ca. 1275 by a Franciscan friar in Augsburg. It deals mainly with questions of land ownership and fiefdom, and it is based on the Pentateuch, Roman law as well as Canon law. It draws on the early 13th century \n\"Sachsenspiegel\", and is immediately dependent on the \"Deutschenspiegel\" code.\n\nThe name \"mirror of the Swabians\" is also taken from the \"Sachsenspiegel\" (\"mirror of the Saxons\"). Since the code is not prescriptive but descriptive, i.e. it records current legal practice, it does not impose any new laws, it was metaphorically compared to a mirror in which to perceive right and wrong. \n\n"}
{"id": "333225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=333225", "title": "Secularization", "text": "Secularization\n\nSecularization (or secularisation) is the transformation of a society from close identification and affiliation with religious values and institutions toward nonreligious values and secular institutions. The \"secularization thesis\" refers to the belief that as societies progress, particularly through modernization and rationalization, religion loses its authority in all aspects of social life and governance. The term secularization is also used in the context of the lifting of the monastic restrictions from a member of the clergy.\n\nSecularization refers to the historical process in which religion loses social and cultural significance. As a result of secularization the role of religion in modern societies becomes restricted. In secularized societies faith lacks cultural authority, and religious organizations have little social power.\n\nSecularization has many levels of meaning, both as a theory and a historical process. Social theorists such as Karl Marx, Sigmund Freud, Max Weber, and Émile Durkheim, postulated that the modernization of society would include a decline in levels of religiosity. Study of this process seeks to determine the manner in which, or extent to which religious creeds, practices and institutions are losing social significance. Some theorists argue that the secularization of modern civilization partly results from our inability to adapt broad ethical and spiritual needs of mankind to the increasingly fast advance of the physical sciences.\n\nIn contrast to the “modernization” thesis, Christian Smith and others argue that secularization is promoted by intellectual and cultural elites to enhance their own status and influence. Smith believes intellectuals have an inherent tendency to be hostile to their native cultures, causing them to embrace secularism.\n\nThe term also has additional meanings, primarily historical and religious. Applied to church property, historically it refers to the seizure of monastic lands and buildings, such as Henry VIII's Dissolution of the Monasteries in England and the later acts during the French Revolution as well as by various anti-clerical European governments during the 18th and 19th centuries, which resulted in the expulsion and suppression of the religious communities which occupied them. The 19th-century \"Kulturkampf\" in Germany and Switzerland and similar events in many other countries also were expressions of secularization.\n\nStill another form of Secularization refers to the act of Prince-Bishops or holders of a position in a Monastic or Military Order - holding a combined religious and secular authority under the Catholic Church - who broke away and made themselves into completely secular (typically, Protestant) hereditary rulers. For example, Gotthard Kettler, the last Master of the Livonian Order, converted to Lutheranism, secularised (and took to himself) the lands of Semigallia and Courland which he had held on behalf of the order - which enabled him to marry and leave to his descendants the Duchy of Courland and Semigallia.\n\nIn the 1960s there was a shift toward secularization in Western Europe, North America, Australia, and New Zealand. This transformation was intertwined with major social factors: economic prosperity, youth rebelling against the rules and conventions of society, women's liberation, radical theology, and radical politics.\n\nSecularization is sometimes credited both to the cultural shifts in society following the emergence of rationality and the development of science as a substitute for superstition—Max Weber called this process the \"disenchantment of the world\"—and to the changes made by religious institutions to compensate. At the most basic stages, this begins with a slow transition from oral traditions to a writing culture that diffuses knowledge. This first reduces the authority of clerics as the custodians of revealed knowledge. As the responsibility for education has moved from the family and community to the state, two consequences have arisen:\nA major issue in the study of secularization is the extent to which certain trends such as decreased attendance at places of worship indicate a decrease in religiosity or simply a privatization of religious belief, where religious beliefs no longer play a dominant role in public life or in other aspects of decision making.\n\nThe issue of secularization is discussed in various religious traditions. The government of Turkey is an often cited example, following the abolition of the Ottoman Caliphate and foundation of the Turkish republic in 1923. This established popular sovereignty in a secular republican framework, in opposition to a system whose authority is based on religion. As one of many examples of state modernization, this shows secularization and democratization as mutually reinforcing processes , relying on a separation of religion and state. In expressly secular states like India, it has been argued that the need was to legislate for toleration and respect between quite different religions, and likewise, the secularization of the West was a response to drastically violent intra-Christian feuds between Catholicism and Protestantism. Some have therefore argued that Western and Indian secularization is radically different in that it deals with autonomy from religious regulation and control. Considerations of both tolerance and autonomy are relevant to any secular state.\n\nC. John Sommerville (1998) outlined six uses of the term secularization in the scientific literature. The first five are more along the lines of 'definitions' while the sixth is more of a 'clarification of use':\n\nAbdel Wahab Elmessiri (2002) outlined two meanings of the term secularization:\n\nAs studied by sociologists, one of the major themes of secularization is that of \"differentiation\"—i.e., the tendency for areas of life to become more distinct and specialized as a society becomes modernized. European sociology, influenced by anthropology, was interested in the process of change from the so-called primitive societies to increasingly advanced societies. In the United States, the emphasis was initially on change as an aspect of progress, but Talcott Parsons refocused on society as a system immersed in a constant process of increased differentiation, which he saw as a process in which new institutions take over the tasks necessary in a society to guarantee its survival as the original monolithic institutions break up. This is a devolution from single, less differentiated institutions to an increasingly differentiated subset of institutions.\n\nFollowing Parsons, this concept of differentiation has been widely applied. As phrased by José Casanova, this \"core and the central thesis of the theory of secularization is the conceptualization of the process of societal modernization as a process of functional differentiation and emancipation of the secular spheres—primarily the state, the economy, and science—from the religious sphere and the concomitant differentiation and specialization of religion within its own newly found religious sphere\". Casanova also describes this as the theory of \"privatization\" of religion, which he partially criticizes. While criticizing certain aspects of the traditional sociological theory of secularization, however, David Martin argues that the concept of social differentiation has been its \"most useful element\".\n\nAt present, secularization as understood in the West is being debated in the sociology of religion. In his works \"Legitimacy of the Modern Age\" (1966) and \"The Genesis of the Copernican World\" (1975), Hans Blumenberg has rejected the idea of a historical continuity – fundamental the so-called 'theorem of secularization'; the Modern age in his view represents an independent epoch opposed to Antiquity and the Middle Ages by a rehabilitation of human curiosity in reaction to theological absolutism. \"Blumenberg targets Löwith's argument that progress is the secularization of Hebrew and Christian beliefs and argues to the contrary that the modern age, including its belief in progress, grew out of a new secular self-affirmation of culture against the Christian tradition.\" Wolfhart Pannenberg, a student of Löwith, has continued the debate against Blumenberg.\n\nCharles Taylor in \"A Secular Age\" challenges what he calls 'the subtraction thesis' – that science leads to religion being subtracted from more and more areas of life.\n\nProponents of \"secularization theory\" demonstrate widespread declines in the prevalence of religious belief throughout the West, particularly in Europe. Some scholars (e.g., Rodney Stark, Peter Berger) have argued that levels of religiosity are not declining, while other scholars (e.g., Mark Chaves, N. J. Demerath) have countered by introducing the idea of neo-secularization, which broadens the definition of secularization to include the decline of religious authority and its ability to influence society.\n\nIn other words, rather than using the proportion of irreligious apostates as the sole measure of secularity, neo-secularization argues that individuals increasingly look outside of religion for authoritative positions. Neo-secularizationists would argue that religion has diminishing authority on issues such as birth control, and argue that religion's authority is declining and secularization is taking place even if religious affiliation may not be declining in the United States (a debate still taking place).\n\nFinally, some claim that demographic forces offset the process of secularization, and may do so to such an extent that individuals can consistently drift away from religion even as society becomes more religious. This is especially the case in societies like Israel (with the ultra-Orthodox and religious Zionists) where committed religious groups have several times the birth rate of seculars. The religious fertility effect operates to a greater or lesser extent in all countries, and is amplified in the West by religious immigration. For instance, even as native whites became more secular, London, England, has become more religious in the past 25 years as religious immigrants and their descendants have increased their share of the population.\n\n1870-1930. Christian Smith examined the secularization of American public life between 1870 and 1930. He noted that in 1870 a Protestant establishment thoroughly dominated American culture and its public institutions. By the turn of the 20th century, however, positivism had displaced the Baconian method (which had hitherto bolstered natural theology) and higher education had been thoroughly secularized. In the 1910s \"legal realism\" gained prominence, de-emphasizing the religious basis for law. That same decade publishing houses emerged that were independent of the Protestant establishment. During the 1920s secularization extended into popular culture and mass public education ceased to be under Protestant cultural influence. Although the general public was still highly religious during this time period, by 1930 the old Protestant establishment was in \"shambles\".\n\nKey to understanding the secularization, Smith argues, was the rise of an elite intellectual class skeptical of religious orthodoxies and influenced by the European Enlightenment tradition. They consciously sought to displace a Protestant establishment they saw as standing in their way.\n\n2008-2017. Annual Gallup polls from 2008 through 2015 showed that the fraction of American who did not identify with any particular religion steadily rose from 14.6% in 2008 to 19.6% in 2015. At the same time, the fraction of Americans identifying as Christians sunk from 80.1% to 75% during the same time. This trend continued until 2017 when 21.3% of Americans declared no religious identity. Given that non-Christian religions stayed roughly the same (at about 5% from 2008 to 2015) secularization seems to have affected primarily Christians.\n\nIn Britain, secularization came much later than in most of Western Europe. It began in the 1960s as part of a much larger social and cultural revolution. Until then the postwar years had seen a revival of religiosity in Britain. Sociologists and historians have engaged in vigorous debates over when it started, how fast it happened, and what caused it.\n\nSponsorship by royalty, aristocracy, and influential local gentry provided an important support-system for organized religion. The sponsorship faded away in the 20th century, as the local élites were no longer so powerful or so financially able to subsidize their favourite activities. In coal-mining districts, local collieries typically funded local chapels, but that ended as the industry grew distressed and the unionized miners rejected élite interference in their local affairs. This allowed secularizing forces to gain strength.\n\nData from the annual British Social Attitudes survey and the biennial European Social Survey suggest that the proportion of Britons who identify as Christian fell from 55% (in 1983) to 43% (in 2015). While members of non-Christian religions – principally Muslims and Hindus – quadrupled, the non-religious (\"nones\") now make up 53% of the British population. More than six in 10 “nones” were brought up as Christians, mainly Anglican or Catholic. Only 2% of “nones” were raised in religions other than Christian.\n\nPeople who were brought up to practise a religion, but who now identifies as having no religion, so-called \"non-verts\", had different \"non-version\" rates, namely 14% for Jews, 10% for Muslims and Sikhs and 6% for Hindus. The proportions of the non-religious who convert to a faith are small: 3% now identify as Anglicans, less than 0.5% convert to Catholicism, 2% join other Christian denominations and 2% convert to non-Christian faiths.\n\nHinduism, which is the dominant way of life in India, has been described as a 'culture and civilisation of ancient origin' that is 'intrinsically secular'. India, post-independence, has seen the emergence of an assertive secular state.\n\nOne traditional view of Chinese culture sees the teachings of Confucianism - influential over many centuries - as basically secular.\n\nChang Pao-min summarises perceived historical consequences of very early secularization in China:\nThe early secularization of Chinese society, which must be recognized as a sign of modernity [...] has ironically left China for centuries without a powerful and stable source of morality and law. All this simply means that the pursuit of wealth or power or simply the competition for survival can be and often has been ruthless without any sense of restraint. [...] Along with the early secularization of Chinese society which was equally early, the concomitant demise of feudalism and hereditary aristocracy, another remarkable development, transformed China earlier than any other country into a unitary system politically, with one single power centre. It also rendered Chinese society much more egalitarian than Western Europe and Japan.\nIn this arguably secular setting, the Chinese Communist Party régime of the People's Republic of China (in power on the Chinese mainland from 1949) promoted deliberate secularization.\n\nMany countries in the Arab world show signs of increasing secularization. For instance, in Egypt, support for imposing sharia (Islamic law) fell from 84% in 2011 to 34% in 2016. Egyptians also pray less: among older Egyptians (55+) 90% prayed daily in 2011. Among the younger generation (age 18-24) that fraction was only 70%. By contrast, in 2016 these numbers had fallen to <80% (55+) and <40% (18-24). The other age groups were in between these values. In Lebanon and Morocco, the number of people listening to daily recitals of the quran fell by half from 2011 to 2016. Some of these developments seem to be driven by need, e.g. by stagnating incomes which force women to contribute to household income and therefore to work. High living costs delay marriage and, as a consequence, seem to encourage pre-marital sex. However, in other countries, such as Algeria, Jordan, and Palestine, support for sharia and islamist ideas seems to grow. Even in countries in which secularization is growing, there are backlashes. For instance, the president of Egypt, Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi, has banned hundreds of newspapers and websites who may provoke opposition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43125749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43125749", "title": "Seismic code", "text": "Seismic code\n\nSeismic codes or earthquake codes are building codes designed to protect property and life in buildings in case of earthquakes. The need for such codes is reflected in the saying, \"Earthquakes don't kill people—buildings do.\" Or in expanded version, “Earthquakes do not injure or kill people. Poorly built manmade structures injure and kill people.” \n\nSeismic codes were created and developed as a response to major earthquakes which have caused devastation in highly populated regions. Often these are revised based on knowledge gained from recent earthquakes and research findings, and as such they are constantly evolving. There are many seismic codes used worldwide. Most codes at their root share common fundamental approaches regarding how to design buildings for earthquake effects, but will differ in their technical requirements and will have language addressing local geologic conditions, common construction types, historic issues, etc.\n\nThe 1755 Lisbon earthquake (Portugal) resulted in prescriptive rules for building certain kinds of buildings common in the area.\n\nFollowing the 1908 Messina earthquake (Italy) the Royal Government of Italy established Geological Committee and Engineering Committee in early 1909 to study the disaster and recommend earthquake disaster mitigation measures. The Engineering Committee, after studying the lateral load resistance of buildings which survived the earthquake motion, recommended that the seismic ratio (seismic acceleration divided by the gravity acceleration) equal to 1/12 for the first floor and 1/8 for the floors above should be used in seismic design of buildings. The Committee proposed equivalent vertical forces much larger than the horizontal forces because vertical motion acted as impacts. This is believed to be the first known quantitative recommendation of design seismic forces in the history of seismic codes. The recommendation was adopted in Royal Decree No. 573 of April 29, 1915. The height of the buildings was limited to two stories, and the first story should be designed for a horizontal force equal to 1/8 the second floor weight and the second story for 1/6 of the roof weight. \n\nThe 1923 Great Kantō earthquake (Japan) and earlier events inspired Japanese engineer Toshikata Sano to develop a lateral force procedure that was officially implemented in the 1924 Japanese Urban Building Law, which directed engineers to design buildings for horizontal forces of about 10% of the weight of the building.\n\nIn 1925, the city of Santa Barbara, California, added a building code requirement that structures be designed to withstand horizontal forces, but was nonspecific regarding design loads or procedure. This is considered to be the ﬁrst explicit policy and legal consideration of the seismic safety of structures in the U.S. The city of Palo Alto, California, led by professors at Stanford, also added similar language to its building code in 1926.\n\nIn January 1928, the first edition of the Uniform Building Code (UBC) was published, and included an appendix with non-mandatory matter with §2311 recommending a minimum lateral design force for earthquake resistance of V = 0.075W for buildings on foundations with allowable bearing pressures of 4,000 psf or more, and 0.10 W for all other buildings including those on pile foundations. Building weight (seismic mass) was defined as: W = Dead load + Live load. These provisions were inspired by Japan's newly developed seismic code. The non-mandatory lateral design provisions are not known to have been explicitly adopted by any jurisdiction at the time, but may have been used voluntarily for the design of some buildings.\n\nIn response to the 1933 Long Beach earthquake (California) the city of Los Angeles adopted the first earthquake design provisions enforced in the U.S., enacted by City Council under Ordinance No. 72,968 published September 6, 1933. The requirements included a design lateral base shear V = 0.08 W for regular use buildings, 0.10 W for school buildings and 0.04 W for the portion of a building above a flexible story. Building weight (seismic mass) was defined as W = Dead load + 0.5 Live load (except 1.0 Live for warehouses). Building frames were required to be designed to withstand at least 0.25V independent of any walls.\n\nImmediately after the 1933 Long Beach earthquake, careful analysis of structural failures in that quake by architect Louis John Gill formed the basis for much of the California seismic legislation (Field Act for schools and Riley Act for all buildings). The 1933 Riley Act required all California local governments to have a building department and inspect new construction, mandating that all structures in the state be designed to withstand a horizontal acceleration of 0.02 times the acceleration due to gravity.\n\nThe first Mexico City building code was issued in 1942; since 1966, it contains a complete set of regulations for structural design and has served as a reference for municipalities across the country. In 1976, the code adopted a coherent format for all materials and structural systems, based on limit states design philosophy. In February 2004 a new set of seismic codes was issued.\n\nIn Spain the seismic code is called the \"Norma de Construcción Sismorresistente\". (See the )\n\nIn the United States the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) publishes \"Recommended Seismic Provisions for New Buildings and Other Structures\".\n"}
{"id": "22599356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22599356", "title": "SmartStax", "text": "SmartStax\n\nSmartStax is a brand of genetically modified seed made through a collaboration between Monsanto Company and Dow Chemical Company. It takes advantage of multiple modes of insect protection and herbicide tolerance. SmartStax takes advantage of Yieldgard VT Triple (Monsanto), Herculex Xtra (Dow), RoundUp Ready 2 (Monsanto), and Liberty Link (Dow). The traits included protect against above-ground insects, below-ground insects, and provide broad herbicide tolerance. It is currently available for corn, but cotton, soybean, and specialty crop variations are to be released. Previously, the most genes artificially added to a single plant was three, but Smartstax includes eight. Smartstax also incorporates Monsanto's Acceleron Seed Treatment System which protects against insects at the earliest stages of development. Smartstax is sold under the Genuity (Monsanto) and Mycogen (Dow) brands.\n\nSmartStax seeds control a broad spectrum of pests which includes larvae of above-ground insects such as European corn borer, black cutworm, southwestern corn borer, corn earworm, fall armyworm, western bean cutworm, and below-ground feeding larvae of western corn rootworm and northern corn rootworm.\n\nTo prevent or delay insect resistance, growers plant a refuge on their farm. This is an area of non-GM plants where insect can live. These insect will not evolve resistance to GM technology. These refuge acres ensure that rare resistant insects that feed on insect-protected varieties of corn will mate with susceptible insects and slow the development of resistance.\n\nSmartstax corn has been advertised and promoted on television, at farm trade shows, and online as Monsanto has geared up for widespread commercial release. Smartstax is sold under the Genuity Brand by Monsanto and the Mycogen brand by Dow, but both companies have the right to sell it under as many names with as many additional technologies as they wish.\n\nRecently, rapid emergence of weeds thought to be resistant to Roundup have been observed. Horseweed, giant ragweed and pigweed, among others have been found growing with crops across the United States. Insects including corn rootworm and bollworm have also begun showing signs of resistance. In response, Monsanto has continued to develop new products. The USDA approves use of Bt crops. Monsanto has denied there is a problem with their product.\n"}
{"id": "21398840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21398840", "title": "Society of Conservative Lawyers", "text": "Society of Conservative Lawyers\n\nThe Society of Conservative Lawyers was founded in 1947 and is an affiliate of the Conservative Party of the United Kingdom. A leading Conservative think tank, the society also provides expert legal advice to the Conservative Front Bench and hosts debates on topical issues. Since its foundation generations of Conservative candidates have been selected from the Society’s ranks.\n\nFounded in 1947, the society quickly became a leading Think Tank on law and legal issues for the Party and continues to help to shape manifestos and policy.\nIts aims and objectives are to:\n\nThe society has a vibrant membership of lawyers with an interest in Conservative policy and runs a regular diary of meetings and dinners with a strong political theme\n\nThe following either are current members or have been in the past\n\n\nIn addition to the programme of events, the Society has an active research wing. This is involved in helping the frontbench teams with legislation that is going through Parliament and policy formation. Traditionally the Chairman of Research has led the Society's thinking and in recent years other members have also published pamphlets and papers through the Society. The current Chairman of Research is Lord Faulks, QC.\n\n\n\nNB: These and other publications are available on the Society of Conservative Lawyers website which can be found here.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2692387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2692387", "title": "Sword of justice", "text": "Sword of justice\n\nA sword of justice is a ceremonial sword used as insignia of a monarch's supreme judicial power. In some cases this may have been an executioner's sword that was no longer used for executions, becoming instead a ceremonial one.\n\nThe Crown Jewels of the United Kingdom include two swords of justice: the sharply pointed Sword of Temporal Justice and the obliquely pointed Sword of Spiritual Justice, whose characteristics are said to indicate that only temporal courts have power over death. The current two swords, together with Curtana, the Sword of Mercy, were made for coronation of Charles I of England, which took place in 1626.\n\n"}
{"id": "1607760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1607760", "title": "Terrorism Act, 1967", "text": "Terrorism Act, 1967\n\nThe Terrorism Act No 83 of 1967 was a law of the South African Apartheid regime until all except section 7 was repealed under the Internal Security and Intimidation Amendment Act 138 of 1991.\n\nSection 6 of the Act allowed someone suspected of involvement in terrorism—which was very broadly defined as anything that might \"endanger the maintenance of law and order\"—to be detained for a 60-day period (which could be renewed) without trial on the authority of a senior police officer. Since there was no requirement to release information on who was being held, people subject to the Act tended to disappear.\n\nThe death of Steve Biko in police custody in 1977, while being detained under the Act, was a particular \"cause célèbre\". It is estimated that approximately 80 people died while being detained under the Act.\n\nOther provisions of the Act included the founding of the Bureau of State Security.\n\n"}
{"id": "1230572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1230572", "title": "Treaty of Sugauli", "text": "Treaty of Sugauli\n\nThe Treaty of Sugauli (also spelled Sugowlee, Sagauli and Segqulee), the treaty that established the boundary line of Nepal, was signed on 2December 1815 and ratified by 4 March 1816 between the East India Company and King of Nepal following the Anglo-Nepalese War of 1814-16. The signatory for Nepal was Raj Guru Gajraj Mishra aided by Chandra Sekher Upadhayaya, the signatory for the Company was Lieutenant Colonel Paris Bradshaw. The treaty called for territorial concessions in which some of the territories controlled by Nepal would be given to British India, the establishment of a British representative in Kathmandu, and allowed Britain to recruit Gurkhas for military service. Nepal also lost the right to employ any American or European employee in its service (earlier several French commanders had been deployed to train the Nepali army).\n\nUnder the treaty, some of the Nepalese controlled territory was lost including all the territories that the King of Nepal had won in wars in the last 25 years or so such as Sikkim in the east, Kumaon Kingdom and Garhwal Kingdom (also known as Gadhwal) in the west. Some of the Terai lands were restored to Nepal in 1816 and more were restored in 1860 to thank for helping the British to suppress the Indian rebellion of 1857.\n\nThe British representative in Kathmandu was the first Westerner allowed to live in the post-Malla Era Nepal. (It is to be noted that few Christian missionaries operating were deported by the Gorkhas after conquering Nepal during the mid 18th century). The first representative was Edward Gardner, who was installed at a compound north of Kathmandu. That site is now called Lazimpat and is home to the Indian and British embassies. \n\nThe Sugauli Treaty was superseded in December 1923 by a \"treaty of perpetual peace and friendship,\" which upgraded the British resident to an envoy. A separate treaty was signed with India (independent by now) in 1950 which established relations between the two countries.\n\nThe territories under Nepalese control included Darjeeling to the South-east, whole of Sikkim to the east, Nainital to the south-west and the Kumaon Kingdom and Garhwal Kingdom to the west.\n\nAfter the Anglo-Nepalese War, a peace treaty was signed between the government of Nepal and the East India Company. It was agreed upon on 2 December 1815 by Raj Guru Gajaraj Mishra aided by Chandra Sekher Upadhyaya on behalf of the government of Nepal and Lt. Col. Paris Bradshaw on behalf of the Company. The signed copies of the treaty were exchanged on 4 March 1816 at Makawanpur by Chandra Sekhar Upadhayay and General David Ochterlony. The terms of the treaty were as follows:-\n\n\nDONE at Sugauli, on the 2nd day of December 1815. \nPARIS BRADSHAW, LT.-COL., P.A.\n\nReceived this treaty from Chandra Shekhar Upadhyaya, Agent on the part of the Raja of Nepal, in the valley of Makwanpoor, at half-past two o'clock p.m. on 4 March 1816, and delivered to them the Counterpart Treaty on behalf of the British Government.\n\nDD. OCHTERLONY, \nAgent, Governor-General \nMemorandum for the approval and acceptance of the Raja of Nepal, presented on 8 December 1816 \nADVERTING to the amity and confidence subsisting with the Raja of Nepal, the British Government proposes to suppress as much as possible, the execution of certain Articles in the Treaty of Sugauli, which bear hard upon the Rajah as follows:\n\nWith a view to gratify the Rajah in a point which he has much at heart, the British Government is willing to return the territories of Terai ceded to it by the Rajah in the Treaty, to wit, the whole Terai lands lying between the Rivers Kushwaha and Gandak, such as appertained to the Rajah before the late disagreement; excepting the disputed lands in the Jillas of Tirhoot and Sarun, and excepting such portions of territory as may occur on both sides for the purpose of settling a frontier, upon investigation by the respective Commissioners; and excepting such lands as may have been given in possession to any one by the British Government upon ascertainment of his rights subsequent to the cession of Terai to the Government. In case the Rajah is desirous of retaining the lands of such ascertained proprietors, they may be exchanged for others, and let it be clearly understood that, notwithstanding the considerable extent of the lands in the Jilla of Tirhoot, which have for a long time been a subject of dispute, the settlement made in the year 1812 of Christ, corresponding with year 1869 of Bikram Sambat, shall be taken, and everything else relinquished, that is to say, that the settlement and negotiations, such as occurred at that period, shall in the present case hold good and be established.\n\nThe British Government is willing likewise to return the territories of Terai lying between the Rivers Gandak and Rapti, that is to say, from the River Gandak to the western limits of the Jilla of Gorakhpur, together with Butwal and Sheeraj, such as appertained to Nepal previous to the disagreements, complete, with the exception of the disputed places in the Terai, and such quantity of ground as may be considered mutually to be requisite for the new boundary.\n\nAs it is impossible to establish desirable limits between the two States without survey, it will be expedient that Commissioners be appointed on both sides for the purpose of arranging in concert a well defined boundary on the basis of the preceding terms, and of establishing a straight line of frontier, with a view to the distinct separation of the respective territories of the British Government to the south and of Nepal to the north; and in case any indentations occur to destroy the even tenor of the line, the Commissioners should effect an exchange of lands so interfering on principles of clear reciprocity.\n\nAnd should it occur that the proprietors of lands situated on the mutual frontier, as it may be rectified, whether holding of the British Government of the Raja of Nepal, should be placed in the condition of subjects to both Governments, with a view to prevent continual dispute and discussion between the two Governments, the respective Commissioners should effect in mutual concurrence and co-operation the exchange of such lands, so as to render them subject to one dominion alone. \n\nIn the event of the Rajah's approving the foregoing terms, the proposed arrangement for the survey and establishment of boundary marks shall be carried into execution, and after the determination in concert, of the boundary line, Sunnuds conformable to the foregoing stipulations, drawn out and sealed by the two States, shall be delivered and accepted on both sides.\n\nEDWARD GARDNER \nResident \nSubstance of a Letter under the Seal of the Raja of Nepal, \nreceived on 11 December 1816\n\nAfter compliments : \nI have comprehended the document under date 8 December 1816, or 4th of Push, 1873 Sambat, which you transmitted relative to the restoration, with a view to my friendship and satisfaction, of the Terai between the Rivers Kushwaha and Rapti to the southern boundary complete, such as appertained to my estate previous to the war. It mentioned that in the event of my accepting the terms contained in that document, the southern boundary of the Terai should be established as it was held by this Government.\n\nI have accordingly agreed to the terms laid down by you, and herewith enclose an instrument of \nagreement, which may be satisfactory to you. Moreover, it was written in the document transmitted by you, that it should be restored, with the exception of the disputed lands and such portion of land as should, in the opinion of the Commissioners on both sides, occur for the purpose of settling a boundary; and excepting the lands which, after the cessions of the Terai to the Honourable Company, may have been transferred by it to the ascertained proprietors. My friend, all these matters rest with you, and since it was also written that a view was had to my friendship and satisfactions with respect to certain Articles of the Treaty of Sugauli, which bore hard upon me, and which could be remitted, I am well assured that you have at heart the removal of whatever may tend to my distress, and that you will act in a manner corresponding to the advantage of this State and the increase of the friendly relations subsisting between the two Governments.\n\nMoreover I have to acknowledge the receipt of the orders under the red seal of this State, addressed to the officers of Terai between the Rivers Gandak and Rapti, for the surrender of that Terai, and their retiring from thence, which was given to you at Thankote, according to your request, and which you have now returned for my satisfaction.\n\nSubstance of a Document under the Red Seal, received from the \nDurbar, on 11 December 1816 \nWith regard to friendship and amity, the Government of Nepal agrees to the tenor of the document under date 8 December 1816 or 4th Poos 1873 Sambat which was received by the Durbar from the Honourable Edward Gardner on the part of the Honorable Company, respecting the revertance of the Terai between the Rivers Kushwaha and Rapti to the former southern boundary, such as appertained to Nepal previous to the war, with exception of the disputed lands.\n\nDated the 7th of Push 1873 Sambat\n\nA subsequent agreement was made in December 1816 according to which Nepal got all the low lands (Terai) from Mechi, in the east, to Mahakali, in the west. Therefore, the indemnity of two lakhs of rupees ceased to continue. A land survey was also proposed to fix the boundary between the two States.\n\n1. Article 9 of the treaty says that the treaty shall be approved by the King of Nepal, but records of the treaty being approved by King Girvan Yuddha Bikram Shah have not been conclusively traced.\n\n2. The British had feared that Nepal might not implement the treaty signed on 4 March 1816 by Chandra Shekhar Upadhyaya. Therefore, General David Ochterlony, on behalf of the British Government, ratified the treaty the same day and the counterpart treaty was handed over to Upadhyaya.\n\n3. Some Nepalese nationalists have argued that the treaty was signed between the Nepalese Kingdom and the British and thus \"lacks the force to be implemented\" between Republic of Nepal and Republic of India. However, the Republic of Nepal has assumed the duties and responsibilities of essentially all other treaties signed by the predecessor Kingdom of Nepal, including membership in the United Nations and other comparable relationships.\nBut there exists no treaty or any other legal and formal conclusion that this Sugauli Treaty will be followed by these two independent nations Nepal and India.\n\nAmong the border dispute of the Indo-Nepal boundary, the most significant are in the Susta and Kalapani regions. Both Kalapani and Susta covers 40 km of Indo-Nepal border. In the Susta region, 14500 hectares of land is generally dominated by Indian side with support of Seema Shashatra Bal (SSB) forces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3598370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3598370", "title": "Trenton Six", "text": "Trenton Six\n\nThe Trenton Six is the group name for six African-American defendants tried for murder of an elderly white shopkeeper in January 1948 in Trenton, New Jersey. The six young men were convicted in August 1948 by an all-white jury of the murder and sentenced to death.\n\nTheir case was taken up as a major civil rights case, because of injustices after their arrests and questions about the trial. The Civil Rights Congress and the NAACP had legal teams that represented three men each in appeals to the State Supreme Court. It found fault with the court's instruction to the jury, and remanded the case to a lower court for retrial, which took place in 1951. That resulted in a mistrial, requiring a third trial. Four of the defendants were acquitted. Ralph Cooper pleaded guilty, implicating the other five in the crime. Collis English was convicted of murder, but the jury recommended mercy - life in prison rather than execution.\n\nThe civil rights groups appealed again to the State Supreme Court, which found fault with the court, and remanded the case to the lower court for retrial of the two defendants who were sentenced to life. One was convicted in 1952 and the other pleaded guilty; both were sentenced to life. Collis English died in late December that year in prison. Ralph Cooper was paroled in 1954 and disappeared from the records.\n\nOn the morning of January 27, 1948, the elderly William Horner (1875–1948) opened his second-hand furniture store as usual, at 213 North Broad Street in Trenton. His common-law wife worked with him there. A while later, several young African-American men entered the store. One or more killed Horner by hitting him in the head with a soda bottle; some also assaulted his wife. She could not say for sure how many men were involved with the attack, saying two to four light-skinned African-American males in their teens had assaulted them.\n\nThe Trenton police, pressured to solve the case, arrested the following men: Ralph Cooper, 24; Collis English, 23; McKinley Forrest, 35; John McKenzie, 24; James Thorpe, 24; and Horace Wilson, 37, on February 11, 1948. All were arrested without warrants, were held without being given access to attorneys, and were questioned for as long as four days before being brought before a judge. Five of the six men charged with the murder signed confessions written by the police.\n\nThe trial began on June 7, 1948, when the State of New Jersey opened its case against the six based on the five signed confessions obtained by the Trenton police. There was no other forensic evidence, and Horner's widow could not identify the men as the ones in her store.\n\nThe defendants were assigned four attorneys, one of whom was African American. On August 6, 1948 all six men were convicted and sentenced to death. All six had provided alibis for that day and had repudiated their confessions, signed under duress. An appeal was filed and an automatic stay of execution granted.\n\nIn the process of appeal, the Communist Party USA took on the legal defense of half the defendants, with Emanuel Hirsch Bloch acting as their attorney.\n\nThe NAACP (National Association for the Advancement of Colored People) defended the other three men, seeking to get their convictions overturned. Among the NAACP attorneys were Thurgood Marshall, who led many legal efforts by the organization; he later was appointed as the first African American to the Supreme Court of the United States; Clifford Roscoe Moore, Sr., later appointed as U.S. Commissioner for Trenton, New Jersey, the first African American appointed to such a position since post-Civil War Reconstruction; and Raymond Pace Alexander, later to be appointed as a judge in Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1949 the State Supreme Court remanded the case to the lower court for retrial, ruling that the jury had been improperly charged in the first case. In the course of the trial, the defense teams revealed that evidence had been manufactured. The medical examiner in Trenton was found guilty of perjury.\n\nAfter a mistrial, four of the men were acquitted in a third trial.\n\nCollis English was convicted. Ralph Cooper pleaded guilty, implicating the other five in the crime. The jury recommended mercy for these two men, with prison sentences rather than capital punishment. These two convictions were also appealed; the State Supreme Court said the court had erred again. It remanded the case to the lower court for a fourth trial in 1952.\n\nEnglish suffered a heart attack (myocardial infarction) soon after the trial and died in December 1952 in prison. Cooper served a portion of his prison sentence and was released on parole in 1954 for good behavior.\n\nBecause of legal abuses in the treatment of suspects after the arrests, the case attracted considerable attention. The Civil Rights Congress and the NAACP generated publicity to highlight the racial inequities in the railroading of the suspects, their lack of access to counsel, the chief witness' inability to identify them, and other issues. Figures such as W. E. B. Du Bois to Pete Seeger, then active in leftist movements, joined the campaign for publicity about obtaining justice in the trials of these men. Albert Einstein also protested the injustice. Commentary and protests were issued from many nations.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57033030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57033030", "title": "Truth and Reconciliation Commission (Peru)", "text": "Truth and Reconciliation Commission (Peru)\n\nPeru's Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) (Comisión de la Verdad y Reconciliación (CVR)) (July 13, 2001 – 28 August 2003) was a truth and reconciliation commission established by President Alejandro Toledo to investigate the human rights abuses committed during the 1980s and 1990s. The TRC was a response to the violent internal conflict between 1980 and 2000 during the administration of Presidents Fernando Belaúnde (1980-1985), Alan García (1985–1990), and Alberto Fujimori (1990–2000). The commission's mandate was to provide a record of human rights and international humanitarian law violations committed in Peru between May 1980 and November 2000, as well as recommend mechanisms to promote and strengthen human rights. The TRC reported on the estimated 70 000 deaths, assassinations, torture, disappearances, displacement, employment of terrorist methods and other human rights violations executed by the State, Shining Path, and the Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement. The report concluded that there is both institutional and individual accountability, as well as identifying racial and cultural factors that became a catalyst for conflict.\n\nBetween 1980 and 2000, Peru experienced an era of political violence characterized by extensive human rights violations. Several regimes of military dictatorship resulted in political and economic instability that increased social tensions within Peru. The internal conflict in Peru was ignited by the 1980 Presidential election that led to guerrilla warfare by several political revolutionary groups. The internal armed conflict resulted in the deaths of approximately 700 000 people and the internal displacement of 600 000 people, as well as extensive damage to both public and private infrastructures. Both state and non-state actors carried out assassinations, kidnapping, forced disappearance, tortures, unfair detentions, serious crimes and other human rights violations. Although rebel groups remain lightly active, the government ended its engagement in the conflict after President Alberto Fujimori was forced to resign in 2000.\n\nThe Shining Path (Sendero Luminoso) is of the major Peruvian rebel groups involved in the internal conflict of Peru and was found to be largely responsible for the human rights violations during the 1980s and 1990s. The revolutionary group was organized as a Maoist political group in 1970 after the dissolution of the Communist Party of Peru. The Shining Path employed guerrilla tactics and violent acts of terrorism in an attempt to overthrow the military governments. The Shining Path ignited the internal conflict in 1980 when it began its revolutionary campaign with its first act of violence in Chuschi, Ayacucho by storming the polling station and burning the ballot boxes on the eve of the first national elections in approximately 10 years. The majority of the acts of violence by the Shining Path were carried out in the Ayacucho region of Peru, where many indigenous populations live in extreme poverty. The group established a presence throughout the country, but mainly operated out of the rural highlands with limited government presence. Their campaign consisted of bombings, assassinations, public executions and other guerrilla attacks against the state.\n\nThe Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement (Movimiento Revolucionario Túpac Amaru) is a Marxist–Leninist revolutionary group formed in 1982 from the influence of Revolutionary Left Movement of the 1960s and the Revolutionary Socialist Party. The revolutionary group was found to be responsible for a significant amount of deaths and displacements during the internal conflict, as well as engaged in guerrilla warfare against the military and the Shining Path. The group intended to overthrow the military government and establish a Marxist regime to eliminate Japanese and U.S imperialism from Peru. Their campaign officially began on June 1, 1984 by broadcasting their first communiqué with a declaration of intent to reform the Peruvian Government through an occupation radio broadcasts systems. The activities of the revolutionary group consisted of bombings, kidnappings, bank robberies, extortion, ambushes, and assassinations, as well as being responsible for several anti-United States attacks. The Túpac Amaru is considered to be a lesser violent rebel group because its guerrilla operations were \"designed to support the mass struggle\" against the authoritarian governments.\n\nFernando Belaúnde Terry served as President of Peru from 1963 to 1968 and again from 1980 to 1985. Belaúnde was part of the Popular Action (Acción Popular) political party, a centre-right party known for its pro-American position. Economic instability persisted under the Belaúnde administration, experiencing large foreign debt, budget deficits, high inflation rates, costly natural disasters, and weak markets for Peru's exports, causing the government to impose austerity measures for economic development. The internal conflict began as a result of the democratic elections of 1980, with both the Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement and the Shining Path implementing a terrorist campaign against the government. The government attempted to suppress the rebel groups through police and armed force operations, resulting in deaths and disappearances beginning to escalate. Human rights groups denounced the widespread abuse of innocent citizens during the struggle against the rebel groups.\n\nAlan García Pérez served as President of Peru from 1985 to 1990 and again from 2006 to 2011. García was part of the American Popular Revolutionary Alliance (APRA), a centre-left political party. The García Administration inherited the economic and political instability of its predecessor. The government implemented an austerity program as an effort against the Shining Path, but resulted in an economic crisis. Peru's economy suffered a hyperinflation of 7500% during García's presidency, worsening national poverty rates. Conflict between the government and rebel groups escalated to a 'dirty war', in which atrocities were committed by both the rebels and military forces. The armed groups deliberately targeted civilians and government forces responded with execution of suspects, forced disappearances, and unlawful detention. The most notable human rights abuse performed by García's government was the Accomarca massacre of 1985, where more than forty-five civilians were tortured and killed in an attempt to discover the names of members of Shining Path.\n\nAlberto Fujimori served as President of Peru from 1990 to 2000 and was known for his corruption and crimes against humanity under international law. He was head of the Cambio 90 political party, a new right-wing party. Fujimori carried out neo-liberal policies and implemented an austerity policy, known as Fujishock, to eliminate inflation but increase poverty. The failure of the policy led to a military supported autogolpe (self-coup), declaring a state of emergency, dissolving Congress, and calling for a new constitution, in which Fujimori ran unopposed. Fujimori increased the government's influence over military operations, using it as primary means against the rebel groups. The government implemented an anti-insurgency campaign, including arming villagers and conducting secretive military trials of suspected members of rebel groups. Fujimori was responsible for the Barrios Altos massacre, where six members of the Peruvian armed forces executed 15 people allegedly involved with the Shining Path, including one child, and left five injured. Corruption within the government further developed under Fujimori, as he used the secret police to infiltrate opposing political parties, bribed legislators and electoral officials, censored the media, embezzled and redirected government funds, as well as carrying out human rights abuses, such as illegal arrests and torture.\n\nIn December 2000, interim President Valentin Paniagua approved the establishment of a truth and reconciliation commission, which ratified by President-elect Alejandro Toledo in 2001. The commission was created to investigate a wide variety of human rights abuses, including assassinations, torture, disappearances, displacement, employment of terrorist methods and other violations executed by the state and rebel groups between May 1980 and November 2000. The mandate was to analyze the causes of violence that had occurred, determine the scale of victimization, assess responsibility, and propose reparations and recommendations. The degree of the mandate comprised an open list of acts of crime, allowing the commission to include all crimes deemed relevant. The primary purpose of the commission was to establish the truth about crimes and events, providing a historical explanation by determining individual and group culpability for crimes and abuses. Despite the main purpose of exposing the truth, it was important to restore personal dignity, as victims became stigmatized by the public or local communities who assumed they were associated with rebel groups. The TRC organized its work into specialized units to conduct research in specific areas.\n\nThe TRC described 5 main objectives:\n\n\nThe purpose of the area of study was to analyze political, social and cultural conditions that contributed to the situation of violence in Peru, including societal and state institutions as contributing factors. Violence influenced social, economic and political conditions of society, therefore the unit was devoted to the impact of national violence. The analysis presented to the TRC focused on national level research and a historical interpretation of political violence.\n\nTo clarify historical events, research was conducted to reconstruct the explanations of crimes and human rights violations. The tasks of the unit was to investigate specific cases of local experiences. Testimonies of crimes and human rights violations were registered to provide in-depth studies of communities affected by the internal conflict.\n\nThe unit's objective was to determine the effects of political violence in various areas of Peru and on the lives of people living in those areas, group identified victims of political violence and ensure that victims were dignified in the process. From the conclusions, the group developed proposals for mechanisms that ensure reparation, prevention and reconciliation.\n\nThe unit designed and constructed social communication programs, citizen participation and education. The group proposed several platforms, including mass and broadcast campaigns, seminars and forums, cultural and artistic activities, and volunteer programs.\n\nPublic hearings were a mechanism to gather information of atrocities and relay it to the public. Peru was the first Latin American TRC to hold public hearings, a method popularized by the South African TRC. The TRC held hearings with testimonies that the commissioners heard directly, as well as being open to the public and broadcast on radio and television. The objectives of public hearings were to incorporate the personal truth of the victims into the commission and convert the information into an instructional instrument, while recognizing the dignity of victims. Public hearings validated the victims by providing them a public forum to share their experiences. Thematic hearings were held to examine critical aspects, such as anti-subversive legislation, displaced persons, universities, women, and teachers.\n\nThe TRC's mandate did not include a specific obligation to a gender perspective or a special analysis of gender-based crimes, but it became concerned with incorporating a gender perspective in its work. A gender perspective widens the scope of victimization and introduces new crimes that are subject to investigation. The commission held a public forum to establish the importance of the role of women in the internal conflict, as well as provided training workshops for TRC teams and volunteers. It investigated how the violence affected men and women differently, the participation of women in the Shining Path and the Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement, and it considered a broad spectrum of sexual abuse and violence. The TRC's final report included a chapter on sexual violence and gender analysis, as well as proposing several recommendations.\n\nThe mandate authorized specific framework for the TRC to work within. All relevant state information and documentation was made accessible to the commission. The commission was authorized to conduct interviews to collect relevant information, including interviews of authorities and public officials. Visits and inspections of affected areas were permitted with the assistance of experts. When necessary, the commission could request security measures for those who required them. The commission was authorized to develop public hearings and reserved procedures, establish communication channels, and promote participation of the population of those affected by political violence. The commission did not have any jurisdictional functions, however it provided assistance in the prosecutions that developed as a result of the final report.\n\nThe commission was composed of twelve Peruvian commissioners, ten men and two women. Initially it consisted of seven commissioners, however President Alejandro Toledo increased the number of commissioners, as well adding an observer position. Commissioners were appointed by the President with the approval of the Council of Ministers. To qualify for the position of commissioner, one had to be a Peruvian national with prestige and legitimacy, defending democratic and constitutional values.\n\n\n\nAs observer:\n\n\nThe Executive Secretariat is an organ that assisted the commission, being in charge of administrative management and the execution of approved programs. The Secretariat consisted of the an executive secretary and officials from a variety of professional backgrounds. The executive secretary was Javier Ciurlizza Contreras, the former Secretary General of the Andean Jurists Commission and former head of cabinet of the Ministry Of Justice.\n\nThe commission opened five regional offices to cover all the national territory and carry out its work. The Regional offices were located in Lima, Huanuco, Huancayo, Hummanga, and Abancay, each focusing on specific provinces of Peru. The commission had approximately five hundred people in their staff working within the regional offices. Regional offices managed decentralized offices, known as Zone Offices, organized by a zone coordinator, as well as fixed and mobile teams. The fixed and mobile teams collected testimonies, filled out records, made reports, investigated cases, and promoted dissemination and education initiatives. Short-term teams and research groups have also been established to perform tasks for a fixed period.\n\nThe Mental Health Team was to design and develop a psychosocial proposal that addressed the possible emotional impact of the TRC's process. The team sought to understand the affects of crimes and human rights violations on individuals and their social relations. The team addresses subjective aspects and interrelated dimensions of individual and group dynamics to identify difficulties and resources for the commission. With results of the psychosocial analysis, the team presented alternative proposals and recommendations that offer strategies to address problems and create conditions that promote comprehensive development.\n\nThe documentation centre provided information services to all teams and areas of the TRC. The Centre facilitated access to information on the commission's work by organizing and storing all documents into an official archive, including case, video, audio, photography and other files. The internal service of the Centre terminated at the end of the commission's mandate, and all the documents were transferred to the ombudsman’s office.\n\nThe budget for the commission was approximately $13 million US for the 2 years of operation, and nearly half of the funding came from international donors. The United Nations supported the Peruvian Government because of its commitment to truth and reconciliation. The UN argued that international funding must supplement the Government's effort, including a cancellation of debt to reallocate finances in support of social programs. The Government signed an agreement with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) for the commission to receive funding. The agreement transfers government resources to the UNDP, gives them authority over the allocation of funds, and commits the UNDP to provide management and auditing services\n\nThe TRC's main objective was to investigate human rights violations, and was achieved through various research strategies that led to the commission's conclusions and recommendations. The commission's work was oriented towards investigating the truth, understanding the causes of violence, and ultimately proposing government reparations and reforms. The research conducted by the commission covered nearly all national territories affected by the internal conflict, with an emphasis on remote communities.\n\nTestimonies was considered to be an intrinsic aspect of the TRC's research because it allowed the voices of the victims of violence. The commission traveled throughout the entire country to gather testimonies from people from 129 provinces and 509 districts. Testimonies collected necessary data about the victims and events in which they were involved, in order to understand the complexity of the violence that the country experienced. The TRC collected approximately 17 000 testimonies about the violence experienced in Peru between 1980 and 2000. The collection of testimonies demonstrated how violence was experiences differently between groups of people throughout the country. Overall, 54% of testimonies were given by women; within the Ayacucho region, women gave 64% of the testimonies. Public hearings were used as a platform to publish testimonies. Those who provided private testimonies where invited to share them again at a public hearing. The TRC held 27 public hearings, featuring testimonies from 422 people on 318 separate allegations of human rights abuses.\n\nThe commission used a systematization of the gathered information to analyze human rights violations in the period 1980 and 2000. An analysis of crimes committed by rebel groups or state agents, systematic or widespread practice of violations of human rights, and political strategies allows for the commission to determine responsibility for the violence. The commission focused on, but was not limited to, massacres, disappearances, torture, internal displacement, terrorist attacks, and violence against women. The analysis of crimes and human rights violations provided a framework for recommendations of institutional reform policies necessary to consolidate a democratic and peaceful society.\n\nThe commission requested to observe exhumations in order to address the numerous massacres committed by both state agents and rebel groups. The remains of the victims were permitted to be claimed by their relatives to allow for dignified burials. The TRC signed an agreement with the Attorney General's Office to assist in the exhumation of clandestine graves and the forensic examination of the remains. The exhumations provided information on circumstances of death, identity of missing people, and used as evidence in prosecutions. The TRC oversaw three major exhumation projects, however official exhumations continued after the end of the TRC's mandate. 2,556 bodies have been found, of which 1,525 have been identified, and 1,366 have been claimed by their families.\n\nThe commission argued that forced disappearances is not only a violation of the individual's human right, but is also cruelty towards the family that lives in permanent uncertainty, and thus the missing persons committee was created to assist friends and families of the victims of disappearances. An estimated 15,000 people disappeared within the timeframe of the TRC's mandate. Following the final report of the TRC, the International Committee of the Red Cross published a provisional list of the missing people as a joint effort with TRC, Public Prosecutor's Office, and the National Coordinator for Human Rights.\n\nThe commission gathered information through in-depth case studies to understand the nature of the human rights violations. The cases demonstrate the complexity of violence and reveal patterns, such as rape, violence by regions, behaviours of the conflict actors, and political strategies. Case studies provided information of the circumstances of specific situation, and simultaneously allows the commission to recompose the order of events. The commission conducted interviews with actors and witnesses of violence to gain regional stories and clarify historical events.\n\nThe photography project was a means of reconciliation intended to understand various aspects and effects of the internal conflict through a visual narrative to impact the future and ensure that the situation is not repeated. The TRC commissioned a transmedia photography project, Yuyanapaq, to build a collective memory of the internal conflict. Yuyanapaq means 'to remember' in Quechua, Peru's predominant indigenous language. The photography exhibition was established based on the assertion that truth is expressed in many forms and to recount and visual representations are invaluable to reconcile with the past. The project was led by Mayu Mohanna and Nancy Chappell, selecting images from over 90 archives, including photos from personal albums, the press and news agencies, the Armed Forces and Police, human rights organizations, community photography projects, and the Church. Yuyanapaq became available through an online photographic archive, photography book, photo exhibition, and multiple travelling exhibitions.\n\nThe TRC's two years of investigations and research led to several conclusions that were presented in the final report, released on August 28, 2003. Based on evidence discovered during the investigations of deaths and disappearances, the TRC was able to provide an accurate estimation of the number deaths that were the result of the internal conflict. It was originally estimated that only 24,000 people died or disappeared, however the TRC concluded that approximately 69,280 died or disappeared as a result of the internal conflict in Peru between 1980 and 2000.\n\nThe TRC assessed responsibility for the crimes and human rights violations and determined key the perpetrators. The Shining Path was the principle perpetrator, being responsible for 54% of the deaths. The Shining Path targeted unarmed civilians as part of their strategy to devastate communities as a whole. The Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement was responsible for 1.5% of the deaths and 1.8% of the total number of human rights violations. Rebel groups were largely responsible for the recruitment of minors who were apprehended and forced to participate in acts of war. The Peruvian state was responsible for 37% of the deaths and disappearances, including agents of the military, police, other security forces, and political parties. Various human rights violations were carried out by State officials to obtain information, confessions, or incriminate others, as well as to punish individuals and communities. State agents systematically inflicted torture and other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, mainly in military detention centres, police stations, and counter-terrorism units. 83% of sexual violence against women and girls were attributed to state officials.\n\nThe TRC also discovered that rural areas were disproportionately affected by violence, especially those of indigenous communities. Indigenous peoples have historically been the country's most marginalized population, and they became the groups most affected by violence. Although only 29% of the national population lives in rural regions, they represented 79% of the victims of violence. 75% of those who died as a result of the conflict spoke Quechua or another Indigenous language as their first language, when only 16% of the national population's first language is an Indigenous language. Violence was most concentrated in rural, Indigenous, and impoverished regions of the country, in which 45% of reported deaths and disappearances were from the Ayacucho region. Overall, 85% of victims were from the departments of Ayacucho, Junín, Huánuco, Huancavelica, Apurímac and San Martín. Although the internal conflict was not caused by ethnic tensions, the TRC argues that the results represent veiled racism that exists in Peruvian society.\n\nThe TRC understood reconciliation as a foundational pact between the State and society to build a better country, therefore reconciliation must use the justice system to provide reparations and punish the perpetrators. The TRC recommended that all those accused of crimes and human rights abuses must assume responsibility before the courts, and no one should be given amnesty. 43 cases including killings, extrajudicial executions, forced disappearances, torture and ill-treatment, and sexual violence and massacres in communities and prisons were forwarded to the Ombudsman's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office, identifying both State agents and opposition groups as perpetrators.\n\nThe TRC recommended institutional reforms as a preventative measure to ensure that an internal conflict will not reoccur.\n\nThe results of investigations demonstrated that the extent of conflict depended on State presence or institutional mechanisms of regions. The TRC recommended that the rights of indigenous peoples should be recognized and protected in national legislation to reaffirm diversity and plurality in Peru. Mechanisms should be implemented to prevent abuses by establishing policies and standards for law enforcement that facilitate collaboration between the National Police, municipal authorities, and citizens.\n\nThe TRC recommended that the government should create new regulations to limit the powers of armed forces during a state of emergency. Recommendations for the development of a national security policy and establishment of civilian authority over military intelligence services were issued, as well as to determine respective jurisdictions between the Armed Forces and the Police.\n\nThe TRC recommended that military jurisdiction be limited to service-related offences to strengthen the independence of the justice system. The commission stated that International human rights law and international humanitarian law should be incorporated into domestic legislations. The TRC also recommended reforms to the prison system to guarantee rights for detainees, as wells as introducing rehabilitation and social reintegration programs.\n\nThe TRC recommended that the education system promote and respect for ethnic and cultural differences by integrating children from the poorest areas that were most affected by the violence. Basic literacy should be taught to teenage and adult women in rural areas with high literacy rates, as well as an improvement to infrastructure and staffing in rural schools.\n\nThe TRC recommended the creation of an Integral Reparations Plan to provide reparations to victims & victims' families. The Integral Reparations Plan was a comprehensive plan to help victims of the internal armed conflict to regain their personal dignity and ensure they are given back their rights as citizens, as well as providing compensation for the social and material damage caused to their community. Beneficiaries of the Plan are any individual who suffered abuses of international human rights law, including those who were subject to forced disappearance, kidnapping, extrajudicial execution, murder, displacement, arbitrary detention, forced recruitment, torture and rape, as well as those who were injured or killed as a result of attacks. The TRC also recommended several different types of reparations:\n\nThe TRC recommended that places associated with human rights violations be shut down or renovated, including certain detention centres such as Challapalca Prison and El Callao Naval Base. Events should also be held to recognize the importance and seriousness of the human rights violation that occurred.\n\nFree health care programs should be implemented to provide mental and physical treatment, including specialists for women.\n\nGrant programs should be created to exempt those who were forced to give up education from paying tuition fees. Adult education program programs should be implemented in areas most affected by violence.\n\nThe commission recommended reparations related to the restoration of full citizen status and elimination of social stigma. The legal status of the \"disappeared\" should be changed to \"absent due to disappearance\" to allow relatives to settle succession, property and ownership of goods matters. The legal situation of citizens who were wrongly accused of terrorism should be regularized, as well as expunging records of innocent prisoners who have been acquitted. The TRC recommended a general program that issues new documentation to those without identity documents as a result of the internal conflict.\n\nIndividual compensation should be offered to the relatives of those who died or disappeared, people left with physical or mental disabilities, people who were unjustly imprisoned, and the victims of sexual violence and children born as a result of rape. Collective compensation should be offered to rebuild institutions in indigenous communities and other regions in which social and physical infrastructure were lost as a result of the internal conflict.\n\nThe TRC recommended for the continuation of exhumations and investigations into the disappeared. The development of the National Anthropological-Forensic Research Plan is intended to authenticate burial sites and reveal more accurate number of deaths from the internal conflict. The TRC argued that progress can be made in investigations, legal proceedings, and the reparation process by returning remains of victims.\n\nThe High Level Multi-Sectoral Commission was established to supervise collective reparations to communities affected by the violence. This Commission followed up on the recommendations of the TRC and oversaw State action and policy on matters relating to peace, reparations and reconciliation. Its goal was to implement reparations programs to re-build social links between State and Community, however only 65% of projects were carried out by 2007.\n\nBy 2004, 3 of the 43 cases submitted to the Public Prosecutor's Office by the TRC have been brought to trial: the alleged arrest and extrajudicial execution of residents of the district of Totos in Ayacucho in April 1983; extrajudicial executions of the Quispillaccta peasant community, in the district of Chuschi, in March 1991; and the murder of 34 inhabitants of Lucmahuaycco in November 1984. 81 cases were completed at the National Criminal Division between 2005 and 2011, which resulted in 58 convictions and 195 acquittals.\n\nIn 2005, a Comprehensive Reparations Plan was approved and issued by executive decree 2006, comprising six programs: Restitution of Civil Rights, Education, Health Care, Collective Reparations, Symbolic Reparations, Promotion and Access to Housing, and Economic Reparations or Compensation.\n\nSince 2005, The Inter-American Court of Human Rights has found the state of Peru liable for 16 violations of human rights committed during the internal armed conflict, including for massacres, summary executions, enforced disappearances, torture, and violations of judicial guarantees. On October 13, 2006, a civil anti-terrorism sentenced the Shining Path's leader and his deputy to life in prison, as well as delivering lesser sentences to ten other rebel leaders.\n\nIn 2008, The National Council for Reparation began began registering victims in order to provide individual reparations according to the TRC recommendations. By 2013, the council had registered 160,429 individual victims and 7,678 communities, including 32 organizations of displaced people. In 2012, the High Level Multi-Sectoral Commission proposed the Comprehensive Reparations Plan, a 5 year financial compensation program. By December 2012, 17,652 victims were beneficiaries of compensation, a total investment of 96 million soles ($36.7 millions US).\n\nOn 27 August 2001, the Peruvian Congress lifted Alberto Fujimori's immunity and declared that he was responsible for crimes against humanity. President Toledo requested the Japanese authorities to extradite Fujimori to Peru, but was rejected. On 7 November 2005, Fujimori was arrested in Chile at the request of the Peruvian government, and later transported to Peru to be put on trial on 22 September 2007.\n\nFujimori was on trial for human rights abuses from December 2007 until April 2009. The charges against him in regards to major incidences of crimes and violations: The 1991 Barrios Altos massacre, the killings of nine students and a professor at La Cantuta University in 1992, and the kidnappings of journalist Gustavo Gorriti and businessman Samuel Dyer. Other charges against Fujimori included abuse of authority, illegal wiretapping, bribery, and corruption. The Supreme Court of Peru found Fujimori guilty, and he was sentenced to twenty-five years in prison. He was also ordered to pay reparations to survivors and victims’ relatives. An appeal was filed, however the verdict was sustained.\n\nOn 10 October 2012, Fujimori submitted a petition for presidential pardon on humanitarian grounds, due to tongue cancer. On 24 December 2017, President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski granted Fujimori medical pardon, after he had served 12 years of his sentence. The victims of Pativilca requested the National Criminal Court to deny the pardon. On 19 February 2018, the National Criminal Court ruled that the former president must stand trial for his responsibility crimes against humanity.\n\nThe TRC generated controversies throughout the mandate and with its final report. Some argue that the TRC's mandate was too focused and did not adequately address certain communities' experiences. Approximately 200 000 impoverished Indigenous women were sterilized without proper consent by the Fujimori government, and the final report was insufficient in acknowledging the impact on their communities.\n\nMany of the controversies are related to the Shining Path. Many argue that the TRC's final report is biased against the Peruvian military and biased toward the Shining Path and other rebel groups. Commissioner Sofia Macher referred to the Shining Path as a “political party”, and many Peruvians felt that was suggesting that the commission was sympathetic to terrorism. Despite the report's conclusions that the majority of human rights violations were carried out by rebel groups, the TRC still received criticisms for its \"anti-military\" bias. Many members of Peruvian society argue that Shining Path members were terrorists, and are therefore undeserving to be labelled a victim, as well as arguing that state forces were doing their constitutional duty during the years of violence.\n\nSocial stigma exists within Peruvian society that associates former rebel group members with terrorism, and that they are not truly victims of the internal conflict. A monument called El Ojo que Llora (The Eye that Cries) was built in 2005 to commemorate the victims of violence. The fountain is surrounded by rocks with inscriptions of the victims of violence. In November 2006, the Inter-American Court of Human Rights ordered that the names of the forty-one victims of the 1992 massacre in Castro Castro prison be added to the monument. Many of these victims were members of the Shining Path, causing outrage by some members of society. The monument was vandalized in 2007.\n\nDespite the criticisms and controversies of the TRC, the commission is often regarded as one of the most successful truth and reconciliation commission. Priscilla Hayner argues that Peru's TRC is one of the strongest commissions for its thorough investigations within a wide scope of human rights abuses. The TRC is recognized for the successful execution of a wide and complex mandate, and is studied by different countries engaged in truth-seeking. The TRC was a success when analyzed by its mandate and final report. Within the 2 years of work, the TRC established the truth about two decades of violence, provided comprehensive recommendations for reforms, prosecutions, and reparations that could begin the process of reconciliation, as well as completing the final report that was disseminated to the public.\n"}
{"id": "44494171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44494171", "title": "United States v. Ike Brown", "text": "United States v. Ike Brown\n\nIn 2006, the United States Department of Justice alleged in United States v. Ike Brown that the Noxubee County Democratic Executive Committee, in Noxubee County, Mississippi, headed by Ike Brown, had violated the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (VRA) with regards to the county's white minority. The suit alleged that Brown, the chairman of the Committee, had conspired to orchestrate \"relentless racial discrimination\" against white voters. This was the first time the VRA had been used to allege discrimination against whites.\n\nOn June 29, 2007, United States District Judge Tom S. Lee ruled that Brown (a twice-convicted felon), in conjunction with the Noxubee Democratic Executive Committee, had \"manipulated the political process in ways specifically intended and designed to impair and impede participation of white voters and to dilute their votes.\" The 104-page opinion held that the Voting Rights Act is a colorblind statute and protects all voters from racial discrimination, regardless of the race of the voter. The Court ruled that the Noxubee County Democratic Party had an illegal intent to discriminate against white voters in violation of Section 2 of the VRA. \n\nThe United States entered in a consent decree with the Noxubee County superintendent of general elections, administrator of absentee ballots, registrar, and the county government. The consent decree prohibited a wide range of discriminatory and illegal voting practices, and required these officials to report such incidents if they received information that they were continuing. This consent decree was approved by the district court and filed simultaneously with the filing of the complaint. Brown told \"The New York Times\" that he had not signed any such papers.\n"}
{"id": "19906244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19906244", "title": "Walker v. Armco Steel Corp.", "text": "Walker v. Armco Steel Corp.\n\nWalker v. Armco Steel Corp., 446 U.S. 740 (1980), was a decision by the Supreme Court of the United States in which the Court further refined the test for determining whether federal courts sitting in diversity must apply state law as opposed to federal law. The question in Walker is whether in a diversity action the federal court should follow state law or, alternatively, Rule 3 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure in determining when an action is commenced for the purpose of tolling the state statute of limitations (SOL). The Court found no such conflict because a court’s refusal to apply the federal rule at issue would not in fact thwart some purpose the federal rule was intended to achieve. Favored treatment for federal procedural rules under the Rules Enabling Act is only appropriate when a rule is in fact applicable.\n\nThe case dealt with a negligence claim brought by an Oklahoma plaintiff in the United States District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma against the defendant, a foreign corporation having its principal place of business in a state other than Oklahoma. Plaintiff was injured August 22, 1975. The complaint was filed on August 19, 1977, and the summons was issued that day. However, service of process was not made on the respondent until December 1, 1977. On January 5, 1978, the respondent filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on the grounds that it was barred by the applicable Oklahoma Statute of Limitations. Though the action was filed within the two-year SOL, the action is only deemed commenced when the service of the summons is made on the respondent, which in this case occurred after the SOL. Okla. Stat., Tit. 12 § 95 (1971) does not deem the action \"commenced\" for the purposes of the statute of limitations until service of the summons on the defendant. However, if the complaint is filed within the limitations period, the action is deemed to have commenced from the date of filing if the plaintiff serves the defendant within 60 days, even though that service may occur outside the limitations period.\n\nThe District Court dismissed the complaint as being barred by the statute of limitations under the state law of Oklahoma on the grounds that state law applied. The United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit affirmed.\n\nThe Supreme Court affirmed the decision, holding that the action was barred by the Oklahoma statute of limitations because the scope of Rule 3 was not sufficiently broad to control the issue before the District Court. There was no indication that the Rule was intended to toll a state statute of limitations, much less that it purported to displace state tolling rules for purposes of state statutes of limitations. In diversity actions, Rule 3 governs the date from which various timing requirements of the Federal Rules begin to run, but does not affect state statutes of limitations.\n\nIn contrast to Rule 3, the Oklahoma statute is a statement of a substantive decision by that State that actual service on, and accordingly actual notice to, the defendant is an integral part of the policies. The establishment of a deadline gives the defendant legitimate peace of mind, and recognizes that after a certain period of time, it is unfair to require the defendant to piece together his defense to an old claim. Rule 3 does not replace such policy determinations found in state law, and that Rule and § 97 can exist side by side, each controlling its own intended sphere of coverage without conflict. The analysis regarding whether state or federal procedural law applies is not applicable because there is no direct conflict. In this case, both the applicable federal and state rules, Rule 3 and Okla. Stat., Tit. 12 § 97 (1971), \"can exist side by side...each controlling its own intended sphere of coverage without conflict.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12284380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12284380", "title": "William John Sullivan", "text": "William John Sullivan\n\nWilliam John Sullivan (more commonly known as John Sullivan) (born December 6, 1976) is a software freedom activist, hacker, and writer. John is currently executive director of the Free Software Foundation, where he has worked since early 2003. He is also a speaker and webmaster for the GNU Project. He also maintains the Plannermode and delicious-el packages for the GNU Emacs text editor.\n\nActive in both the free software and free culture communities, Sullivan has a BA in philosophy from Michigan State University and an MFA in Writing and Poetics. In college, Sullivan was a successful policy debater, reaching finals of CEDA Nationals and the semifinals of the National Debate Tournament.\n\nUntil 2007, John was the main contact behind the Defective by Design, BadVista and Play Ogg campaigns. He also served as the chief-webmaster for the GNU Project, until July 2006.\n\nHe has served as Executive Director of the Free Software Foundation since 2011.\n\nJohn currently delivers speeches on the following topics, in English:\n\n\n"}
