{"id": "24653263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24653263", "title": "Activity book", "text": "Activity book\n\nAn activity book is a type of book, generally aimed at children, which contains interactive content such as games, puzzles, quizzes, pictures to colour and other elements which involve writing or drawing in the book itself. The book may, or may not, have a loose narrative or contain other non-interactive elements structured around the interactive elements. Activity books may be made for entertainment, education or a mixture of both.\n\nSpecific types of activity books include colouring books and puzzle books. A book is normally referred to as an activity book if it combines a variety of interactive elements and does not fall neatly into one of these more specific categories.\n\nActivity books are typically centred around a particular theme. This may be a generic theme, e.g. dinosaurs, or based on a toy, television show, book, or game. \n\nFor example, the Where's Wally? series of books (known as Where's Waldo? in the USA) by Martin Handford consists of both puzzle books, wherein the reader must search for characters hidden in pictures, and activity books such as \"\", which include a wider range of games and activities as well as puzzles. In 2018, Nintendo announced its intention to publish activity books based on its trademarked characters and games. Other franchises for which a number of activity books are available include:\n\n"}
{"id": "21169951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21169951", "title": "Afrika-Studiecentrum Leiden", "text": "Afrika-Studiecentrum Leiden\n\nThe African Studies Centre (Afrika-Studiecentrum) is an independent scientific institute in the Netherlands that undertakes social-science research on Africa with the aim of promoting a better understanding of historical, current and future social developments in Sub-Saharan Africa. The present director is Jan-Bart Gewald. The institute is located in the Pieter de la Court Building of Leiden University’s Faculty of Social Sciences.\n\nThe main objectives of the African Studies Centre (ASC) are to promote and undertake scientific research on Sub-Saharan Africa in the social sciences and humanities, to function as the main focal point for African studies in the Netherlands and contribute to education and teaching in this field, and to promote the dissemination of knowledge and an understanding of African societies.\n\nThe research programme of the African Studies Centre for the period 2012-2016 is entitled ‘African Dynamism amidst Global Restructuring’. It will focus on four major fields of inquiry, with flexible and shifting emphasis by its members of staff and members of the ASC Community temporarily present at the ASC.\nThe four fields of enquiry are:\n\nThe Centre’s library consists of some 90,000 books and about 2,000 journals (including electronic journals), government reports, brochures, African newspapers and about 1,700 documentaries and feature films on video and DVD. The Centre has also developed a web service, \"Connecting-Africa\", with links to more than 58,000 online articles about Africa. The library also has a collection of archival material including archives of African government publications and a number of personal archives.\n\nThe Centre was founded on 12 August 1947 as the academic division of an Afrika Instituut, which initially also had an economic section, later spun off as the Netherlands-African Business Council. Over the years, many well-known Dutch Africanists have worked at the African Studies Centre, including the poet Vernie February, the activist Klaas de Jonge, the sociologist Robert Buijtenhuijs and the law professor and film director Emile van Rouveroy van Nieuwaal. Legal scholar Hans Holleman served as a director from 1963 to 1969. Barbara Harrell-Bond worked at the Centre in the 1970s. Kofi Abrefa Busia, who later became prime minister of Ghana, worked at the African Studies Centre between 1959 and 1962. Former director Stephen Ellis was editor in chief of \"Africa Confidential\". Petrus Johannes Idenburg, lector of African constitutional law at Leiden University, was one of the founders of the Centre.\n\nThe Centre was one of the founders of AEGIS, a network of African Studies Centres in Europe that was set up in 1991 to build upon the resources and research potential available within Africanist institutions in Europe.\n\nAs of 1 January 2016, the African Studies Centre is a part of Leiden University. On 1 September 2017, Jan-Bart Gewald became the new director of the ASC replacing Ton Dietz who had been director since 2010.\n\nThe Centre publishes extensively, sometimes in cooperation with publishers such as Brill Publishers in Leiden. Among the ASC publications are:\n\n"}
{"id": "929468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=929468", "title": "Aleksandr Dugin", "text": "Aleksandr Dugin\n\nAleksandr Gelyevich Dugin (; born 7 January 1962) is a Russian philosopher, political analyst, and strategist known for his fascist views.\n\nHe has close ties with the Kremlin and the Russian military, having served as an advisor to State Duma speaker Gennadiy Seleznyov and key member of the ruling United Russia party Sergei Naryshkin. However, commentators dispute his influence: in the words of journalist Alexander Nevzorov, \"if we had had Sergey Kurginyan and Dugin instead of Putin, there would have been hell for all of us to pay; they would have unleashed a European and World War without a shadow of a doubt, without considering consequences at all.\" But \"Dugin and Kurginyan do not have the slightest impact on what is going on in the Kremlin and do not even get coaching there\". Dugin was the leading organizer of the National Bolshevik Party, National Bolshevik Front, and Eurasia Party. He is the author of more than 30 books, among them \"Foundations of Geopolitics\" (1997) and \"The Fourth Political Theory\" (2009).\n\nDugin was born in Moscow, into the family of a colonel-general in the Soviet military intelligence and candidate of law Geliy Alexandrovich Dugin and his wife Galina, a doctor and candidate of medicine. In 1979, he entered the Moscow Aviation Institute, but did not graduate due to his association with thinking contrary to the ongoing regime, which caused him to be expelled from the institute.\n\nA self-taught polyglot, he read avidly in his fields of interest, from Middle Age and Renaissance European authors to Oriental Studies, translating into Russian from English, French, and German, and also the writings of Italian fascist Julius Evola and French author René Guénon. Religious Traditionalism, Conservatism, Hermeticism and Poetry were topics followed closely by Dugin and a group of philosophers/thinkers also interested in Traditionalism: Geydar Dzhemal, Evgeniy Golovin, Yuri Mamleev, Vladimir Stepanov, and Sergey Jigalkin.\n\nHe graduated in Economics and Management at Novocherkassk Meliorative State Academy in the Rostov Oblast in 1999, defending his post-graduate degree in Philosophy at Rostov-on-Don with the dissertation \"The Evolution of Paradigmatic Foundations of Science\" in 2000, and the PhD in the Faculty of Sociology at the same University in 2004 with the theme \"The Transformation of the Political Structures and Institutions in the Process of Modernization of the Civil Society\". In 1998, Dugin, Geydar Dzhemal, and Evgeniy Golovin created a study center based on their long time shared interests called the New University project.\n\nDugin in the 1980s was a dissident and an anti-communist. Dugin worked as a journalist before becoming involved in politics just before the fall of communism. In 1988 he and his friend Geydar Dzhemal joined the nationalist group Pamyat. He helped to write the political program for the newly refounded Communist Party of the Russian Federation under the leadership of Gennady Zyuganov.\n\nIn his 1997 article \"Fascism – Borderless and Red\", Dugin proclaimed the arrival of a \"genuine, true, radically revolutionary and consistent, fascist fascism\" in Russia. He believes that it was \"by no means the racist and chauvinist aspects of National Socialism that determined the nature of its ideology. The excesses of this ideology in Germany are a matter exclusively of the Germans ... while Russian fascism is a combination of natural national conservatism with a passionate desire for true changes.\" \"Waffen-SS and especially the scientific sector of this organization, Ahnenerbe,\" was \"an intellectual oasis in the framework of the National Socialist regime\", according to him.\"\n\nDugin soon began publishing his own journal entitled \"Elementy\", which initially began by praising Franco-Belgian Jean-François Thiriart, supporter of a Europe \"from Dublin to Vladivostok\". Consistently glorifying both Tsarist and Stalinist Russia, \"Elementy\" also revealed Dugin's admiration for Julius Evola. Dugin also collaborated with the weekly journal \"Den\" (The Day), a bastion of Russian anti-Cosmopolitanism previously directed by Alexander Prokhanov.\n\nDugin was amongst the earliest members of the National Bolshevik Party (NBP) and convinced Eduard Limonov to enter the political arena in 1994. A part of hard-line nationalist NBP members, supported by Dugin, split off to form the more right-wing, anti-liberal, anti-left, anti-Kasparov aggressive nationalist organization, National Bolshevik Front. After breaking with Limonov, he became close to Yevgeny Primakov and later to Vladimir Putin's circle.\n\nDugin claims to be disapproving of liberalism and the West, particularly American hegemony. His assertions show that he likes Stalin and the Soviet Union: \"We are on the side of Stalin and the Soviet Union\". He calls himself a conservative and says, \"We, conservatives, want a strong, solid State, want order and healthy family, positive values, the reinforcing of the importance of religion and the Church in society\". He adds, \"We want patriotic radio, TV, patriotic experts, patriotic clubs. We want the media that expresses national interests\".\n\nThe Eurasia Party, later Eurasia Movement, was officially recognized by the Ministry of Justice on 31 May 2001. The Eurasia Party claims support by some military circles and by leaders of the Orthodox Christian faith in Russia, and the party hopes to play a key role in attempts to resolve the Chechen problem, with the objective of setting the stage for Dugin's dream of a Russian strategic alliance with European and Middle Eastern states, primarily Iran. Dugin's ideas, particularly those on \"a Turkic-Slavic alliance in the Eurasian sphere\" have recently become popular among certain nationalistic circles in Turkey, most notably among alleged members of the Ergenekon network, which is the subject of a high-profile trial (on charges of conspiracy). Dugin's Eurasianist ideology has also been linked to his adherence to the doctrines of the Traditionalist School. (Dugin's Traditionalist beliefs are the subject of a book length study by J. Heiser, \"The American Empire Should Be Destroyed—Aleksandr Dugin and the Perils of Immanentized Eschatology.\") Dugin also advocates for a Russo-Arab alliance.\n\nThe reborn Russia, according to Dugin's concept, is said by Charles Clover of the \"Financial Times\" to be a slightly remade version of the Soviet Union with echoes of \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" by George Orwell, where Eurasia was one of three continent-sized super states including Eastasia and Oceania as the other two and was participating in endless war between them.\n\nIn the Eurasian public discourse sphere, the totalitarian communist policy deployed in over three decades of works by various international groups that are part of the movement, is \"a version of reintegration of the post-Soviet space into a \"Eurasian\" sphere of influence for Russia\". The North-American program \"works with a wide range of partners from all sectors of civil society\" and \"is advanced through grant making, advocacy and research, regional initiatives, and close engagement\".\n\nHe has criticized the \"Euro-Atlantic\" involvement in the 2004 Ukrainian presidential election as a scheme to create a \"cordon sanitaire\" around Russia, much like the French and British attempt post-World War I.\n\nIn 2005, Dugin founded the Eurasian Youth Union of Russia as the youth wing of the International Eurasia Movement.\n\nUkraine gave Dugin a five-year entry ban, starting in June 2006, and Kiev declared him a \"persona non grata\" in 2007. His Eurasian Youth Union was banned in Ukraine. In 2007, the Security Service of Ukraine identified persons of the Eurasian Youth Union who committed : they climbed up the mountain of Hoverla, imitated sawing down the details of the construction in the form of the small coat of arms of Ukraine by tools brought with them and painted the emblem of the Eurasian Youth Union on the memorial symbol of the Constitution of Ukraine. He was deported back to Russia when he arrived at Simferopol International Airport in June 2007.\n\nBefore war broke out between Russia and Georgia in 2008, Dugin visited South Ossetia and predicted, \"Our troops will occupy the Georgian capital Tbilisi, the entire country, and perhaps even Ukraine and the Crimean Peninsula, which is historically part of Russia, anyway.\" Afterwards he said Russia should \"not stop at liberating South Ossetia but should move further,\" and \"we have to do something similar in Ukraine.\" In 2008, Dugin stated that Russia should repeat the Georgian scenario in Ukraine, namely attack it. In September 2008, after the Russian-Georgian war, he did not hide his anger towards Putin, who \"dared not drop the other shoe\" and \"restore the Empire.\"\n\nDugin was baptized at the age of six in the Russian Orthodox church of Michurinsk by his great-grandmother Elena Mikhailovna Kargaltseva. Since 1999, he formally embraced a branch of the Old Believers, a Russian religious movement which rejected the 1652–1666 reforms of the official Russian Orthodox Church. Dugin's Eurasian philosophy owes much to Traditional Integralism and \"Nouvelle Droite\" movements, and as such it resonates with Neopaganism, a category which in this context means the movement of Slavic Native Faith (Rodnovery), especially in the forms of Anastasianism and Ynglism. Dugin's Eurasianism is often cited as belonging to the same spectrum of these movements, as well as also having influences from Hermetic, Gnostic and Eastern traditions. He himself calls to rely upon \"Eastern theology and mystical currents\" for the development of the Fourth Political Theory.\n\nAccording to Marlene Laruelle, his adherence to the Old Believers allows him to stand between Paganism and Orthodox Christianity without formally adopting either of them. His choice is not paradoxical, since, according to him — in the wake of René Guénon —, Russian Orthodoxy and especially the Old Believers have preserved an esoteric and initiatory character which was utterly lost in Western Christianity. As such, the Russian Orthodox tradition may be merged with Neopaganism and may host \"Neopaganism's nationalist force, which anchors it in the Russian soil, and separates it from the two other Christian confessions\".\n\nIn the early 1990s Dugin's work at the National Bolshevik Front included research into the roots of national movements and the activities of supporting esoteric groups in the first half of the 20th century. Partnering Christian Bouchet, a then-member of the French OTO, and building on the national-fascist and migratory-integrative interest groups in Asia and Europe, they contribute in bringing international politics closer to Russia's Eurasian geopolitical concept.\n\nAleksandr Dugin supports Putin and his foreign policies but has opposed Russian governments due to their economic policies. His 2007 quote, \"There are no more opponents of Putin's course and, if there are, they are mentally ill and need to be sent off for clinical examination. Putin is everywhere, Putin is everything, Putin is absolute, and Putin is indispensable\" – was voted number two in flattery by readers of \"Kommersant\".\n\nIn the Kremlin, Dugin represents the \"war party\", a division within the leadership over Ukraine. Dugin is seen as an author of Putin's initiative for the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation. He considered the war between Russia and Ukraine to be inevitable and appealed for Putin to start military intervention in eastern Ukraine. Dugin said, \"The Russian Renaissance can only stop by Kiev.\" During the 2014 pro-Russian conflict in Ukraine, Dugin was in regular contact with pro-Russian separatist insurgents. He described his position as \"unconditionally pro-DPR and pro-LPR\". A Skype video call posted on YouTube showed Dugin providing instructions to separatists of South and Eastern Ukraine as well as advising Ekaterina Gubareva, whose husband Pavel Gubarev declared himself a local governor and after that was arrested by the Security Service of Ukraine. On 31 March 2014, Oleg Bahtiyarov, a member of the Eurasia Youth Union of Russia founded by Dugin, was arrested. He had trained a group of about 200 people to seize parliament and another government building, according to the Security Service of Ukraine. Dugin also developed links with far-right and far-left political parties in the European Union, including Syriza in Greece, Ataka in Bulgaria, the Freedom Party of Austria, and Front National in France, to influence EU policy on Ukraine and Russia.\n\nDugin stated he was disappointed in Russian President Vladimir Putin, saying that Putin did not aid the pro-Russian insurgents in Ukraine after the Ukrainian Army's early July 2014 offensive. In August 2014, Dugin called for a \"genocide\" of Ukrainians.\n\nHalya Coynash of the Kharkiv Human Rights Protection Group said that the influence of Dugin's \"Eurasian ideology\" on events in eastern Ukraine and on Russia's invasion of the Crimea was beyond any doubt. According to Vincent Jauvert, Dugin's radical ideology today became the basis for the internal and foreign policy of the Russian authorities. So Dugin is worth listening to, in order to understand to which fate the Kremlin is leading its country and the whole of Europe. However, according to Alexander Nevzorov, if we had had Kurginyan and Dugin instead of Putin, there would have been hell for all of us to pay, they would have unleashed a European and World War without a shadow of a doubt, without considering consequences at all. But Dugin and Kurginyan do not have the slightest impact on what is going on in the Kremlin and do not even get coaching there. In another publication, Nevzorov said, \"Beliefs are only proven by being under bullets, another prescription does not exist. I do not understand why Milonov and Dugin are not there yet.\"\n\nOn 10 October 2014, Dugin said, \"Only after restoring the Greater Russia that is the Eurasian Union, we can become a credible global player. Now these processes slowed down very much. The Ukrainian maidan was the response of the West to the advance of the Russian integration.\" He described the Euromaidan as a coup d'état carried out not by the Ukrainians but by the United States: \"America wishes to wage the war against Russia not by its own hands but by the hands of the Ukrainians. Promising to wink at up to 10 thousand victims among the peaceful population of Ukraine and actually demanding the victims, the United States led to this war. The United States carried out the coup d'état during the maidan for the purpose of this war. The United States raised neo-Nazis Russophobes to the power for the purpose of this war.\" Dugin said Russia is the major driving force for the current events in Ukraine, \"Russia insists on its sovereignty, its liberty, responds to challenges thrown down to it, for example, in Ukraine. Russia is attempting to integrate the post-Soviet space ...\" As Israeli political scientist Vyacheslav Likhachov states, \"If one seriously takes the fact that such a person as Alexander Dugin is the ideologist of the imperial dash for the West, then one can establish that Russia is not going to stop as far as the Atlantic Ocean.\"\n\nIn the 2014 article by Dmitry Bykov \"Why TV, Alexander Dugin and Galina Pyshnyak crucified a boy\", Channel One Russia's use of the aired story by Dugin and Pyshnyak about the allegedly crucified boy as a pretext for escalating the conflict was compared to the case of Beilis. On 9 July 2014, Dugin on his Facebook account wrote a story that a 6 year old child was allegedly nailed down to an advertisement board and shot to death before his father's eyes. On 16 July 2014, \"Novaya Gazeta\" provided a videotape of its correspondent Eugen Feldman walking along the main square in Sloviansk, asking local old women if they had heard of the murder of the child. They said such an event did not take place. The website Change.org hosted a petition of citizens who demanded \"a comprehensive investigation with identification for all persons involved in the fabrication of the plot.\"\n\nOn 2 October 2014, Dugin described the situation in Donbass: \"The humanitarian crisis has long since been raging on the territory of Novorossiya. Already up to a million, if not more, refugees are in the Russian Federation. A large part of the inhabitants of the DPR and the LPR simply moved abroad.\" In the end of October 2014, Dugin advised the separatists to establish dictatorship in Novorossiya until they win in the confrontation.\n\nThe typical rhetoric about the fifth column as foreign agents is used by Dugin for political accusations in many publications. In his 2014 interview published by \"Vzglyad\" and \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\", he says, \"A huge struggle is being conducted. And, of course, Europe has its own fifth column, its own Bolotnaya Square-minded people. And if we have them sitting idly and doing nasty things on Dozhd, Europe is indeed dominated and ruled by the fifth column in full swing. This is the same American riffraff ...\" He sees the United States standing behind all the scenes, including the Russian fifth column, according to his statement, \"The danger of our fifth column is not that they are strong, they are absolutely paltry, but that they are hired by the greatest 'godfather' of the modern world—by the United States. That is why they are effective, they work, they are listened to, they get away with anything because they have the world power standing behind them.\" He sees the American embassy as the center for funding and guiding the fifth column and asserts, \"We know that the fifth column receives money and instructions from the American embassy.\"\n\nAccording to Dugin, the fifth column promoted the breakup of the Soviet Union as a land continental construction, seized power under Boris Yeltsin, and headed Russia as the ruling politico-economic and cultural elite until the 2000s; the fifth column is the regime of liberal reformers of the 1990s and includes former Russian oligarchs Vladimir Gusinsky, Boris Berezovsky, former government officials Mikhail Kasyanov, Boris Nemtsov, Vladimir Ryzhkov, artistic, cultural, and media workers, the Echo of Moscow, the Russian State University for the Humanities, the highest ranks of the National Research University Higher School of Economics, a significant part of teachers of the Moscow State Institute of International Relations, and a minority part of teachers of the Moscow State University. Dugin proposes to deprive the fifth column of Russian citizenship and deport the group from Russia: \"I believe it is necessary to deport the fifth column and deprive them of their citizenship.\" However, in 2007, Dugin argued, \"There are no longer opponents of Putin's policy, and if there are, they are mentally ill and should be sent to prophylactic health examination.\" In 2014, Dugin in an interview to \"Der Spiegel\" confirmed that he considers the opponents of Putin to be mentally ill.\n\nIn one of his publications, Dugin introduced the term \"the sixth column\" and defined it as \"the fifth column which just pretends to be something different\", those who are in favor of Putin, but demand that he stand for liberal values (as opposed to the liberal fifth column, which is specifically against Putin). During the 2014 Russian military intervention in Ukraine, Dugin said that all the Russian sixth column stood up staunchly for Ukrainian oligarch Rinat Akhmetov. As he asserts, \"We need to struggle against the fifth and sixth columns.\"\n\nRussian-American artist Mihail Chemiakin says Dugin is inventing \"the sixth column\". \"Soon, probably, there would already be the seventh one as well. \"The fifth column\" is understandable. That is we, intelligentsia, lousy, dirty, who read Camus. And \"the sixth column\", in his opinion, is more dangerous, because that is the personal entourage of Vladimir Putin. But he is naive and understands nothing. And as for Dugin, he can tell him who to shoot to death and who to imprison. Maybe, Kudrin and maybe, Medvedev ...\"\n\nAccording to Dugin, the whole Internet should be banned: \"I think that Internet as such, as a phenomenon is worth prohibiting because it gives nobody anything good.\" In June 2012, Dugin said in a lecture that chemistry and physics are demonic sciences, and that all Orthodox Russians need to unite around the President of the Russian Federation in the last battle between good and evil, following the example of Iran and North Korea. He added, \"If we want to liberate ourselves from the West, it is needed to liberate ourselves from textbooks on physics and chemistry.\"\n\nDugin has characterized his position on the Ukrainian conflict as \"firm opposition to the Junta and Ukrainian Nazism that are annihilating peaceful civilians\" as well as unacceptance of liberalism and American hegemony.\n\nDuring the conflict in Ukraine, Dugin also lost his post as Head of the Department of Sociology of International Relations of Moscow State University. In 2014, a petition entitled \"We demand the dismissal of MSU Sociology Faculty Professor A. G. Dugin!\" was signed by over 10,000 people and sent to the MSU rector Viktor Sadovnichiy. The petition was started after Dugin in an interview expressed his opinion on how to deal with Ukrainians (\"Kill them, kill them, kill them. There should not be any more conversations. As a professor, I consider it so.\"). Dugin claimed to have been fired from this post; the university claimed the offer of a department chairmanship resulted from a technical error and that he would remain a professor under contract until September 2014. Dugin wrote the statement of resignation from the faculty because it was necessary to be reappointed to the Moscow State University, but the appointment did not happen, so as a result he is no longer a staff member of the faculty and a staff member of the Moscow State University.\n\nAt the end of October 2014, Sergey Kurginyan, the leader of all-Russian movement Essence of Time, sued Dugin because Dugin called Kurginyan a traitor and accused him of destroying DPR deputy foreign minister Proselkov in the following words: \"Possessed supporters of traitor Kurginyan, who as now it turns out is working for oligarchs, Yukos and Israel, declared Sasha Proselkov \"main enemy\" after he along with Gubarev did not allow denigrating Russian hero Igor Strelkov with impunity.\" Dugin added: \"Kurginyan crossed a red line: the ideological controversy is one thing, the physical destruction of Russian patriots is another one.\"\n\nOn 11 March 2015, the United States Department of the Treasury added Dugin, as well as his Eurasian Youth Union, to its list of Russian citizens who are sanctioned as a result of their involvement in the Ukrainian crisis. In June 2015, Canada added Dugin to its list of sanctioned individuals.\n\nHe is a character of \"Yevraziyskoye\" (\"Something Eurasian\"), a poem by Dmitry Bykov.\n\nSeveral of Dugin's books have been published by the publishing house Arktos, an English-language publisher for Traditionalist and New Right books, which specializes in works by prominent fascists and neo-Nazis. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18785518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18785518", "title": "Canadian Institute of Geomatics", "text": "Canadian Institute of Geomatics\n\nThe Canadian Institute of Geomatics (French: \"Association Canadienne des Sciences Géomatiques\"), also known as the CIG by most in the geospatial community, is a not-for-profit scientific association based in Ottawa, Ontario devoted to the development of geomatics in Canada. It was previously known as Canadian Institute of Surveying and Mapping.\n\nFounded in 1882, the Canadian Institute of Geomatics evolved into be a non-profit scientific and technical association that represents the largest and most influential geospatial community in Canada. The Canadian Institute of Geomatics are one of the founding members of Canadian GeoAlliance, an umbrella organization started to help address sector-wide strategic priorities in the geomatics sector.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24541808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24541808", "title": "Cerro de las Minas", "text": "Cerro de las Minas\n\nCerro de la Minas is an archaeological site located in the modern state of Oaxaca, just to the north of the city of Huajuapan de León. The site belongs to what is called the Ñuiñe, or lowland/hot lands Mixtec cultural area. The site is located on a hill that dominates the Valley of Huajuapan, in what are now the neighborhoods of Chapultepec, Santa Rosa, Alta Vista and Del Maestro of the city. This large hill is in a strategic position over the farmlands of the valley, which provided it with its food, as well as the trade routes that cross this valley, which made it regionally important. The site contains a number of settlements and was reserved for the elite of that area during that time. Cerro de las Minas is the only lowland Mixtec archeological site open to the public.\n\nThis site was systematically explored by Dr. John Paddock in the 1960s. He defined the Ñuiñe culture; further extensive works were carried out by Dr. Marcus Winter in 1987.\n\n2500 Years ago, there were many Mixtec communities (Mixteca Alta y Baja) inhabited by mixtec peoples called Ñuu Yata Yata (ancient people). These groups lived in Cerro de las Minas, Diquiyú and Tequixtepec (Mixteca Baja); Huamelulpan, Monte Negro, Yucuita and other (Mixteca Alta). The culture developed for 600 years, up to 250-350 CE, probably due to Teotihuacan influence would later transform into the Ñuiñe culture. Was an important Ñuiñe culture center, founded in the late Preclassic period, its apogee occurred during the early classic period, between 400 and 800 CE, during this period flourished other major cities such as Monte Alban and Teotihuacan, the latter in the Highland Valley Mexico.\n\nThe area fell on the trade routes between the Valley of Mexico and the central valleys of Oaxaca, the Valley of Tehuacán and other areas of the Sierra Madre del Sur. Commerce through here dealt in obsidian, ceramics, textiles, metals, salt, wood, charcoal, plants, fruit, and copal.\n\nThe development of this site from a village to a city is divided into two phases:\n\nThe first is called Ñudee (the Mixtec name for Huajuapan, meaning “place of the brave”) and covers the period from 400 BCE to 250 CE. The site was founded in the late Preclassic period by people who originated from the Santa Teresa site, two km to the south.\n\nThe second phase is called Ñuiñe and covers the site as a city-state from between 250 CE to about 800 CE. In both these phases, cultural influences from other Mixtec and Mesoamerican areas can be seen. It was the economic, political and cultural center of an area with a radius of about 10 to 15 km . Population peak of the site itself was between 1,000 and 2,000 people.\n\nIts apogee was reached in the Classic period with the development of the Ñuiñe culture among the lowland Mixtec in general, which had its own architecture, writing, ceramics, figurines and urns.\n\nStarting from 800 CE, the city went into decline, possibly due to being subjugated from a neighboring dominion. The area would not grow again until after the Spanish Conquest, with the founding of the Spanish city of Huajuapan in the valley area below, next to the river. This settlement was established in 1525.\n\nCerro de las Minas has characteristics similar to cities in the Mixteca Alta. Characterized by a construction of buildings around several squares, the rest of the population distributed around these plazas. (Mixtec urban design differentiation from other cities in which the buildings were organized around a single, large square). The construction areas were modified with terraces, called coo yuu (Mixtec name for terraces). It can be translated as “clay Dyke”, for this reason it was necessary to build stairs around the town. Cerro de las Minas was decorated with reliefs of inscriptions, using (a not very well known) writing system, called ñuiñe. The writing system is very similar to Monte Alban (Zapotec) inscriptions, which suggests a strong relationship between the valleys and the Mixteca Baja during the classical period.\n\nMost of the site covers about fifty hectares on the top and down the sides of the large hill although in 2007, INAH found a pre-Hispanic tomb at the foot of the Cerro de la Minas. The hill was chosen as it was defensible. The center of the site is dominated by three mounds that measure about eight meters high and forty meters in diameters. These form a line through the center of the sites and have large platforms built among them, extending for a total of about 180 meters. In addition, there is a Mesoamerican ball court that measures sixty meters long and fifteen meters wide. The sides of the hill have been terraced to create more flat spaces for a market, the palace and some residential areas.\n\nThe residential areas generally contain foundations of stone, with walls of stone or adobe. Later homes built here have thinner walls made with flagstone filling in the gaps from the larger stones. Residential buildings situated in dominant positions have gravesites. This seems to be related to more modern Mixtec burial traditions, especially for those in high or preferred positions in society.\n\nThe palace is divided into rooms, a central patio and a large tomb, Number 5. This tomb contains three major burials, probably related to the ruling family. A total of nine tombs were discovered, some had been robbed but in other were found human remains, vessels and gravestones with the names of the deceased. In addition to these, more than 100 ordinary graves were found.\n\nMajor investigation and excavation of the site was carried out in the late 1980s and early 1990s by a team of 200 people headed by Marcus Winter. Much of what little is known of this Mixtec region comes from finds at this site, especially finds related to the Mixtec glyph writing system. Most of the finds were contained in Tomb 5, located south of the main plaza in the palace complex. This tomb contained a large quantity of Mixtec ceramics as well as a multicolored urn with a representation of the god of wind or fire, with a brazier on its head, seated on a platform decorated with four glyphs. This piece is now on display at the Museum of Oaxaca. Most of the Ñuiñe writing has been found in this tomb, on gravestones. This kind of Ñuiñe writing contains a central glyph, usually the name of the deceased accompanied by dates. Two gravestones of this type were found in Tomb 5 and were probably of the governors of the city. It is the same writing system that was found in San Pedro y San Pablo Tequixtepec about 25 km to the north of the site, in the form of inscriptions under painted battle scenes were found. Tomb three was found to have been already sacked, but it still contained fragments of an urn and a carved stone.\n\nCultural elements found here show contact and influence from other Mixtec settlements such as Diquiyú, Monte Negro, Huamelulpan, Yucuita and Yucuñudahui. Despite six years of excavation, the site is still not completely explored; however, funds have not been secured to continue work at the site.\n\nCovers the width of the Hill Summit; There was a structure, probably a temple. Access was via a wide staircase.\n\nYet to be explored, has a stariway that probably lead to a temple over (on top) the mound.\n\nIt is a large platform with vertical walls and flat surface. Probably had residences at the northeast side, has not been determined what buildings were constructed on the platform.\n\nLocated between mounds 1 & 2, Tomb 5 Patio is located here, surrounded on three sides by residential structures, there are basement remains of rooms and patios.\n\nContained remains of several people, more than 70 vessels and a beautiful ñuiñe URN. Late walls of the Tomb patio show construction techniques (block – stone slab), and of slope-panel. In the patio is another housing area, designated area C.\n\nBeside 2 mound, remains of a structure were found, possibly a Ballgame Court (I Shaped). The evidence is unclear, only some indications are preserved and houses were built over these (Ñuiñe late phase); the elongated shape and two small engraved stones suggest its use as a court, before construction of the Houses.\n\nYet to be explored, the space between mounds 2 and 3, without residential houses, as the Tomb 5 patio, it is believed to have been a Tianguis (market).\n\nPieces found on site are exhibited in this Museum, others in the Oaxaca Cultures Museum and the Mitla Frissell Museum\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15165605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15165605", "title": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1995", "text": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1995\n\nThe Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1995 was the fourteenth Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations. It was held in Auckland, New Zealand, between 10 November 1995 and 13 November 1995, and was hosted by that country's Prime Minister, Jim Bolger.\n\nThe Millbrook Commonwealth Action Programme was agreed and announced at the CHOGM. The programme sets out the basic political membership criteria of the Commonwealth and introduces compulsory adherence to the Harare principles, providing incentives for members to adhere to democratic principles, good governance and the rule of law with bilateral and multilateral penalties for intransigent members up to and including expulsion from the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group was established to monitor and enforce adherence to the agreement.\n"}
{"id": "12393681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12393681", "title": "Conclave capitulation", "text": "Conclave capitulation\n\nA conclave capitulation was a compact or unilateral contract drawn up by the College of Cardinals during a papal conclave to constrain the actions of the pope elected by the conclave. The legal term \"capitulation\" more frequently refers to the commitment of a sovereign state to relinquish jurisdiction within its borders over the subjects of a foreign state. Before balloting began, all cardinals present at the conclave would swear to be bound by its provisions if elected pope. Capitulations were used by the College of Cardinals to assert its collective authority and limit papal supremacy, to \"make the Church an oligarchy instead of a monarchy.\" Similar electoral capitulations were used on occasion from the 14th to the 17th centuries in Northern and Central Europe to constrain an elected king, emperor, prince, or bishop.\n\nThe College had made informal attempts to influence the actions of Popes before drafting formal capitulations. The first capitulation was drafted in the conclave of 1352, which elected Pope Innocent VI, and most conclaves for the next 300 years produced similar documents.\n\nIn 1353, Innocent VI declared these first Capitulations invalid with his Apostolic Constitution, \"Sollicitudo\", citing a Constitution of Pope Gregory X, \"Contingit\", which prohibited papal conclaves from dealing with issues other than the election of a Pope. This papal response would be repeated for most future Capitulations, which were generally disregarded. For this reason, papal historian Frederic Baumgartner calls capitulations \"an exercise in futility.\" Another papal historian, Van Dyke, surmises that by the election of Pope Sixtus IV (1471), \"all the Popes for forty years had signed and promptly broken\" the \"Capitulation of the Conclave.\" Jugie considers the \"regular recourse to capitulation\" to be \"above all, an admission of weakness.\" Despite their ineffectiveness, Capitulations still give an insight into the thinking of the Cardinals as they prepared to vote for a pope.\n\nAlthough not the last Capitulations, that of the conclave of 1513 (which elected Pope Leo X) was a turning point for papal supremacy and attempts to control it through formal treaties; never again did the College attempt to limit its size through capitulations; although individual cardinals remained powerful, the College as a whole never regained its power as the \"senate\" of the Church.\n\nIn 1676, Pope-elect Innocent XI made the College swear to the capitulation that had been drafted by the previous conclave before accepting his election.\n\nThough the practice was defunct, Pope John Paul II's 1996 Constitution \"Universi Dominici Gregis\" banned conclave capitulations as well as the papal veto, which had already been eliminated by Pius X. He wrote: \"I likewise forbid the Cardinals before the election to enter into any stipulations, committing themselves of common accord to a certain course of action should one of them be elevated to the Pontificate. These promises too, should any in fact be made, even under oath, I also declare null and void.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8395427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8395427", "title": "Economics of the arts and literature", "text": "Economics of the arts and literature\n\nEconomics of the arts and literature or cultural economics (used below for convenience) is a branch of economics that studies the economics of creation, distribution, and the consumption of works of art, literature and similar creative and/or cultural products. For a long time, the concept of the \"arts\" were confined to visual arts (e.g., painting) and performing arts (music, theatre, dance) in the Anglo-Saxon tradition. Usage has widened since the beginning of the 1980s with the study of cultural industry (cinema, television programs, book and periodical publishing and music publishing) and the economy of cultural institutions (museums, libraries, historic buildings). The field is coded as in the \"Journal of Economic Literature\" classification system used for article searches.\n\nCultural economics is concerned with the arts in a broad sense. The goods considered have creative content, but that is not enough to qualify as a cultural good. Designer goods such as clothes and drapes are not considered usually to be works of art or culture. Cultural goods are those with a value determined by symbolic content rather than physical characteristics. (For further considerations, see also Cultural Institutions Studies). Economic thinking has been applied in ever more areas in the last decennia, including pollution, corruption and education.\n\nWorks of art and culture have a specific quality, which is their uniqueness. While other economic goods, such as crude oil or wheat are generic, interchangeable commodities (given a specific grade of the product), there is only one example of a famous painting such as the Mona Lisa, and only one example of Rodin's well-known sculpture \"The Thinker\". While copies or reproductions can be made of these works of art, and while many inexpensive posters of the Mona Lisa and small factory-made replicas of \"The Thinker\" are sold, neither full-size copies nor inexpensive reproductions are viewed as substitutes for the real artworks, in the way that a consumer views a pound of Grade A sugar from Cuba as a fully equivalent substitute for a pound of Grade A sugar from United States or Dominican Republic. As there is no equivalent item or substitute for these famous works of art, classical economist Adam Smith held it was impossible to value them. Alfred Marshall noted that the demand for a certain kind of cultural good can depend on its consumption: The more you have listened to a particular kind of music, the more you appreciate. In his economic framework, these goods do not have the usual decreasing marginal utility.\n\nKey academic works in cultural economics include those of Baumol and Bowen (Performing Arts, The Economic Dilemma, 1966), of Gary Becker on addictive goods, and of Alan Peacock (public choice). This summary has been divided into sections on the economic study of the performing arts, on the market of individual pieces of art, the art market in cultural industries, the economics of cultural heritage and the labour market in the art sector.\n\nThe seminal paper by William Baumol and Bowen introduced the term cost disease for a relative cost growth of live performances. This cost growth explains the increasing dependency of this kind of art on state subsidies. It occurs when the consumable good is labour itself. To understand this phenomenon, compare the change in the cost of performing the Molière play \"Tartuffe\" in 1664 and in 2007 with the change in cost of calculating a large number of sums from an accounting ledger. In 1664, you needed two hours and twelve actors to perform Molière's play, and it would take, say, twelve accountants working for two hours to add up all the sums in an accounting ledger. In 2007, a single accountant with a $10 calculator can add the sums in 20 minutes, but you still need two hours and twelve actors for the Molière play. Artists must make a considerable investment in human capital (e.g., training), and needs to be paid accordingly. The artists' pay needs to rise along with that of the population in general. As the latter is following the general productivity in the economy, the cost of a play will rise with general productivity, while the actors' productivity does not rise.\n\nThere are two lines of thought in subsequent literature on the economics of the performing arts:\n\n\nTwo segments of the market in the visual arts can be distinguished: works of art that are familiar and have a history, and contemporary works that are more easily influenced by fashion and new discoveries. Both markets, however, are oligopolistic, i.e., there are limited numbers of sellers and buyers (oligopsony). Two central questions on the working of the markets are: How are prices determined, and what is the return on artworks, compared to the return on financial assets?\n\nComponents of a work of art, like raw stone, tubes of paint or unpainted canvas, in general have a value much lower than the finished products, such as a sculpture or a finished painting. Also, the amount of labour needed to produce an item does not explain the big price differences between works of art. It seems that the value is much more dependent on potential buyers', and experts' perception of it. This perception has three elements: First, social value, which is the social status the buyer has by owning it. The artist thus has an \"artistic capital\". Second, the artistic value, compared to contemporary works, or as importance to later generations. Third, the price history of the item, if a buyer uses this for his expectation of a future price at which he might sell the item again (given the oligopolistic market structure).\nThree kinds of economic agents determine these values. Specific experts like gallery owners or museum directors use the first, social value. Experts like art historians and art professors use the second, artistic value. Buyers who buy works of art as an investment use the third, the price history and expectations for future price increases.\n\nSome major financial institutions, banks and insurance companies, have had considerable return rates on investments in art works in the 1990s. These rates have not slowed down at the same time as the rates on stock exchanges, in the early 90's. This may indicate a diversification opportunity. Apart from this evidence of successful investment, the amount of data available has stimulated study of the market. Many works are sold on auctions. These transactions are thus very transparent. This has made it possible to establish price databases, with prices of some items going back to 1652. Empirical studies have shown that, on average, the return on works of art has been lower than that on equity, with a volatility that is at least as high. An intangible gain in terms of pleasure of having a work of art could explain this partly. However, before interpreting the figures, it should be borne in mind that art is often exempt of many kinds of taxes. In 1986, Baumol made an estimate of an average yearly rate of return of 0.55 percent for works of art, against a rate of return of 2.5 percent for financial assets, over a 20-year period.\n\nSome famous artworks such as the \"Mona Lisa\" painting are not reproducible (at least in the sense of creating another copy that would be seen as equivalent in value), but there are many cultural goods whose value does not depend on a single, individual copy. Books, recordings, movies get some of their value from the existence of many copies of the original. These are the products of major cultural industries, which are the book industry, the music industry and the film industry. These markets are characterized by:\n\nThe important cultural industries tend to have an oligopolistic market structure. The market is dominated by a few major companies, with the rest of the market consisting of many small companies. The latter may act as a filter or as \"gatekeepers\" for the artistic supply. A small company with a successful artist or good quality roster can be bought by one of the major companies. Big conglomerates, pooling TV and film production, have existed for decades. The 1990s have seen some mergers extending beyond the industry as such, and mergers of hardware producers with content providers. Anticipated gains from synergy and market power have not been realised, and from the early 2000s there has been a trend towards organisation along sector lines.\n\nCultural heritage is reflected in goods and real estate. Management and regulation of museums has come under study in this area.\n\nMuseums, which have a conservatory role, and provide exhibitions to the general public, can be commercial, or on a non-profit base. In the second case, as they provide a public good, they pose the problems related to these goods: should they be self-financing, or be subsidized ? One of the specific issues is the imbalance between the huge value of the collections in museums, and their budgets. Also, they are often located in places (city centres) where the cost of land is high, which limits their expansion possibilities. American museums exhibit only about half of their collection. Some museums in Europe, like the Pompidou Centre in France, show less than 5 percent of their collection. Apart from providing exhibitions, museums get proceeds from derived products, like catalogues and reproductions. They also produce at a more intangible level: They make collections. Out of so many pieces in the public domain, they make a selection based on their expertise, thus adding value to the mere existence of the items.\n\nThe dual goal of conservation and providing exhibitions obviously presents a choice. On the one hand the museum has, for conservation reasons, an interest in exhibiting as few items as possible, and it would select lesser known works and a specialized audience, to promote knowledge and research. On the other hand, the exhibition argument requires showing the major pieces from different cultures, to satisfy the demands from the public and to attract a large audience. When a government has made a choice about this, application of economic contract theory will help to implement this choice by showing how to use incentives to different managers (on the financial, conservatory side) to obtain the required result.\n\nMany countries have systems that protect historically significant buildings and structures. These are buildings or other structures that are deemed to have cultural importance or which are deemed to have heritage value. Owners get tax deductions or subsidies for restoration, in return for which they accept restrictions on modifications to the buildings or provide public access. Buildings that are often classified as heritage buildings include former or current Parliament buildings, cathedrals, courthouses, houses built in a recognized historical style, and even fairly regular houses, if the house was formerly the home of a famous politician, artist or inventor. Buildings with heritage status cannot typically be demolished. Depending on the nature of the heritage restrictions, the current owner may or may not be allowed to modify the outside or inside of the building. Such a system poses the same choice problems as museums do. There has been little study of this issue.\n\nThe labour market for artists is characterized by:\n\nThe term \"star system\", coined by Sherwin Rosen, is used to explain why a very small number of the artists and creators in the market, such as the celebrity A-list actors and top pop singers, earn most of the total earnings in a sector. Rosen's 1981 paper examined the economics of superstars to determine why “relatively small numbers of people earn enormous amounts of money and seem to dominate the fields in which they engage.” Rosen argues that in superstar markets, \"small differences in talent at the top of the distribution will translate into large differences in revenue.\" Rosen points out that \"...sellers of higher talent charge only slightly higher prices than those of lower talent, but sell much larger quantities; their greater earnings come overwhelmingly from selling larger quantities than from charging higher prices\".\n\nIn cultural industries, the uncertainty about the quality of a product plays a key role in this. The consumer does not really know how good the product is, until he or she has consumed it (think of a movie), and the producer is confronted with the typical uncertainty in a cultural industry. The consumer looks for guidance in the price, reputation, or a famous name on the cover or poster. As the producer understands this using a famous director, actor or singer affects demand, he or she is prepared to pay a lot for a name considered a sign of quality (a star). Indeed, authors like Adler and Ginsburgh have given evidence that star status is determined by chance: in a musical contest, results were highly correlated with the order of performance. This randomness has been used to explain why the labor supply in the sector remains excessive: given the extreme gains of a star, and an irrational behaviour, or particular preferences, with respect to chance, unsuccessful artists keep trying, even when they are earning their money mostly in a different trade, such as waiting tables. A second argument is the possibility of intangible returns to artists' labour in terms of social status and lifestyle. For example, even a struggling DJ spends most of her time onstage on nightclubs and raves, which for some people is a desirable outcome.\n\nA case has been made for the existence of a different structure in the production of cultural goods . (See Cultural Institutions Studies.) An artist often considers a product to be an expression of himself, while the ordinary craftsperson is only concerned with his product, as far as it affects his/her pay or salary. For example, a painter who creates artworks that are displayed in museums may view her paintings as her artistic expression. On the other hand, a scene painter for a music theatre company may see herself as a craftsperson who is paid by the hour for doing painting. The artist may thus want restrict the use of his or her product, and he/she may object if a museum uses a reproduction of his/her painting to help sell cars or liquor. On the other hand, the scene painter may not object to commercial re-uses of her set painting, as she/he may see it just as a regular job.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32350556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32350556", "title": "El Malpensante", "text": "El Malpensante\n\nEl Malpensante () is a Colombian literary magazine of reportage, commentary, criticism, essays, fiction, satire, cartoons, graphic art and poetry founded in 1996. Its founders were Andrés Hoyos Restrepo and Mario Jursich Durán The name of the magazine was extracted from a book of aphorisms written by Gesualdo Bufalino.\n\nSince its foundation in 1996, El Malpensante has become one of the main cultural references of Colombia. Literature, cinema, music, art, architecture, design, politics. The wide variety of paradoxical readings contained in its pages have redefined for a generation of readers what it means to \"be malpensante\": a brand of literary pleasure; a window to access particular and profound views of culture; an innovative publishing firm, a guarantee of quality and credibility. La editorial de dicha revista realiza además el Festival Malpensante, una serie de encuentros anuales que incluye diversas actividades culturales realizadas en Bogotá.2 Recientemente El Malpensante asumió el mando de la tradicional librería Biblos en Bogotá. Para el año 2011 ya se anunció que no habrá Festival Malpensante..\n\n"}
{"id": "50195039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50195039", "title": "Elizabeth Caskey", "text": "Elizabeth Caskey\n\nElizabeth \"Betty\" Gwyn Caskey (20 May 1910 – January 1994) was a Canadian-American classical scholar, teacher, and archaeologist, known for her work in the excavations at Lerna and Kea, which are of importance to Greek prehistory. As an archaeologist she worked with her husband, Jack Caskey, on excavations where she supervised the trenches of every annual dig and their fortifications. She also wrote summaries of the excavations. After her marriage ended she excavated at Pylos. She was a Professor of Classics at Randolph-Macon College who became Professor Emeritus in 1981.\n\nElizabeth Caskey was born Clara Elizabeth Conningsby Gwyn on 20 May 1910 at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada. She was the third child of seven children (four girls and three boys) of Stratton Gwyn and Fanny Coningsby. She spent her early years in the prairies of Canada under difficult conditions. She attended elementary school at Dandas until 1921. From 1922 her high school education was at the Battleford Collegiate School at Battleford. She was a good debater in the school, and graduated from the school with distinction, getting the Governor General's Medal for Saskatchewan. From 1926 to 1927 she stayed at home learning piano as her mother thought she was too young to go to college.\n\nIn 1928, when her family moved to Duncan, British Columbia, she attended Hamilton Central Collegiate, preparatory to joining college. She graduated from Hamilton with honours in English literature, history, Algebra and Geometry, Latin, French and Greek, and was the recipient of the J. M. Buchan Gold Medal and three scholarships to pursue further graduate studies at the University of Toronto. She studied at the Trinity College of the university and after four years of study in various subjects received her degree in Classics in 1932 with distinction, topping her class. After receiving her MA degree in 1933 from Toronto College she moved to the University of Cincinnati with a teaching fellowship to pursue further studies for her doctorate. Her doctoral studies covered Greek history, prose composition, elegy and epigram, and Greek civilization. She also did a course in pre-classical Greece from 1935 to 1936.\n\nAt Cincinnati she met John Langdon Caskey, a fellow student and a Yale University graduate. They married on 1 August 1936. As John Langdon pursued his archaeological excavations at Troy where he had been working with since 1932, Elizabeth joined him in the field work for a short spell in 1938 assisting in some elementary work related to field archaeology. During her doctoral studies she also taught in the Classics department under a Taft teaching Fellowship. She received her doctoral degree from the university in June 1939 with her thesis on \"Democritus and Plato.\"\n\nDuring World War II Caskey started teaching Classics from 1942, initially as a substitute teacher in place of those who had opted for war duty and then as an instructor from 1942 to 1946. In 1948 she moved to Greece with her husband, where he worked as Assistant Director at the American School of Classical Studies in Athens. She pursued a career as a librarian from 1948 to 1958, and occasionally taught numismatics and ancient pottery to graduate students, drawing on the data of archaeological excavations in Athenian Agora. She also assisted students to study flora and fauna during their field excavations of the ruins.\n\nIn 1952 with the support of the school, Caskey along with her husband started working on the archaeological excavations at Lerna. In 1952, with the support of the school, along with her husband she started working on the archaeological excavations at Lerna, a pre-Mycaeanean site in the Peloponnese, south of Argos on the road to Tripolis; the work related to the Middle Bronze Age, Bronze Age and neolithic periods. She had the task of supervising digs as \"quarter master\" in areas that provided information related to Early Bronze Age. Following completion of the Lerna excavations, and erecting a roof over the \"House of Tiles\", she took up the task of recording the excavations at the Eutresia at Boeatia in Southern Greece along with her husband. This work was published in Hesperia with support from the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton. \n\nIn 1969 they came back to Cincinnati for a short period and then started another excavation at Agia Irini on the island of Kea off the coast of Attica during 1960, where the students of the college were also trained to establish the link between palace civilization of Crete and the Mycenanean centres in the Peloponnesos, south of Argos on the road to Tripolis. Following completion of Lerna excavations and erecting a roof over the excavations over the \"House of Tiles\" she took up the task of recording the excavations at the Eutresis at Boeatia in Southern Greece along with her husband and this work was published in Hesperia with support from the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton. In 1969 they came back to Cinncinnari for a short period and then started another excavation at Agia Irini on the island of Kea off the coast of Attica during 1960, where the students of the college were also trained. \n\nIn the excavation conducted during 1963–64 Caskey not only encouraged new archaeologists but also got involved with deep digging in Late Bronze Age sites, which exposed the largest building with peeled-out painted plaster in some rooms, pots, graffiti, drains, roads and other features. The publication titled \"House A\", published by W. Willson Cummer and Elizabeth Schofield, is dedicated to Caskey with the credit: \"who excavated most of House A and made preliminary studies of much of the pottery.\"\n\nIn 1965, the recording of finds of a temple next to House A site and of pottery, mostly of the Late Bronze Age, animal bones, fragments of frescos, human skeletal and the terracotta statues were also done by a team under Caskey's supervision; her niece Lynne Radcliffe of Vancouver had joined this team. However, Caskey did not resume her work at the site as she had divorced her husband. From that point on, she used the nickname of \"Betty\".\n\nAfter her return to Cincinnati, Caskey initially taught as an instructor at the university. Between 1967 and 1968, she taught at the Western College for Women in Oxford, Ohio, as assistant professor on a part-time basis.\n\nShe resumed excavations in Greece during summer 1968. She was a member of a rescue expedition of the American School and the University of Colorado, at Pylos in Elis. This excavation was in the submerhence area of a big dam and the excavation was concluded quickly from June 12 and August 17, 1968, supplemented with more work in 1970. The excavations unearthed antiquaries of \"Middle Helladic occupation, wells of the late Geometric and Archaic periods, house foundations of the fifth to the fourth century B.C., house walls and graves of the later Roman period, and some Byzantine occupation.\" \n\nFrom fall of 1968 Caskey started working at the Randolph-Macon Woman's College in Lynchburg, Virginia, as associate professor and as professor from 1977. The subjects she taught here covered her special fields such as classical literature and philosophy, Greek, ancient history, art and archaeology. She was active in the Archaeological Institute of America. She was a member of the American School of Classical Studies. She was also associated with the Faculty Senate of Virginia on behalf of the Randolph-Macon. She took part in the activities of the women's initiatives of the \"Lynchburg AAUW\", the League of Women Voters, and the First Unitarian Church. She also pursued action related to environmental concerns and was a keen bird-watcher. She then devoted her time to publish many research articles, particularly on Plato's work, review of archaeological books. She retired in 1981 and was given the status of emeritus professor.\n\nCaskey died in January 1994 in Lynchburg, where she had spent her retirement days.\n\nAt Caskey's memorial service President emeritus William F. Quillian extolled her qualities by stating: There are few who combine so well as she did the qualities of meticulous scholarship, devotion to teaching and skill in inspiring her students to a study of and appreciation for the Classics, an interest in and involvement in social and political issues, and with it all a winsomeness and cheery outlook on life.\n\n"}
{"id": "5148421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5148421", "title": "Free The Army tour", "text": "Free The Army tour\n\nThe Free The Army Tour (or FTA Tour), a play on the troop expression \"F--- The Army\" (which in turn was a play on the army slogan \"Fun, Travel and Adventure\"), was an anti-Vietnam War road show designed as a response to Bob Hope's USO tour.\n\nIt was first organized in April 1970 by activist Fred Gardner, and actors Jane Fonda and Donald Sutherland.\n\nThe tour, referred to as \"political vaudeville\" by Fonda, visited military towns along the West Coast, with the goal of establishing a dialogue with soldiers about their upcoming deployments to Vietnam. Barbara Garson was also a contributor to the show.\n\nThe resulting dialogue was turned into a film called \"F.T.A.\", directed by Francine Parker, and released into theaters in 1972. Footage and discussion of the FTA Tour is included in the 2005 documentary film \"Sir! No Sir!.\n\nSince then, the director of \"Sir! No Sir!\", David Zeiger, has been involved in resurrecting the original documentary film \"F.T.A.\". It was shown publicly in Los Angeles in early 2009 at the American Cinematheque with a panel that included two of the original performers in the show. \"F.T.A.\" also had its broadcast premiere on the Sundance Channel on February 23, 2009. The DVD of \"F.T.A.\" is now sold on the \"Sir! No Sir!\" website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12856145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12856145", "title": "Funk art", "text": "Funk art\n\nFunk art is an American art movement that was a reaction against the nonobjectivity of abstract expressionism. An anti-establishment movement, Funk art brought figuration back as subject matter in painting again rather than limiting itself to the non-figurative, abstract forms that abstract expressionists such as Jackson Pollock and Mark Rothko were depicting. The movement’s name was derived from the jazz musical term \"funky\", describing the passionate, sensuous, and quirky. During the 1920s, jazz was thought of as very basic, unsophisticated music, and many people believed Funk was an unrefined style of art as well. The term funk also had negative connotations because the word had an association with a foul odor. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, Funk was a popular art form, mainly in California's Bay Area in the United States. Although discussed as a cohesive movement, Funk artists did not feel as if they belonged to a collective art style or group. This is because while its artists shared the same attitudes and created similar works, they were not necessarily working together.\n\nThe Funk art movement was a regional art movement, most predominant in Northern California. Some notable cities where the Funk movement was concentrated in consisted of Berkeley, Marin County, Big Sur, and North Beach. Many Funk artists began as Bay Area Figurative Movement painters in the 1950s. The movement originated from the bohemian underground in the Bay Area. During the 1960s, the Bay Area, specifically San Francisco, was a free and spiritual environment due to its beatnik art culture and the youth political activism reacting against the Vietnam War going on at the time. A variety of different cultures existed in the city, including poetry, jazz, and art. The freedom of thinking and culture was one of the main reasons that Funk art, a combination of both painting and sculpture, could develop and prosper in the Bay Area.\n\nThe Funk art that occurred throughout Northern California was the exact opposite of the \"Fetish Finish\" sculptures made in Southern California and the \"primary structures\" constructed in New York at the time. Funk art in the Bay Area was unique and not similar to any other movement of the 1960s. Jess, Wally Hedrick, Jay DeFeo, Viola Frey, Wallace Berman and Bruce Conner were notable Funk artists who emerged from the Bay Area. Jess was one of the earliest and most influential Funk artists. In 1967, Peter Selz, the first director of the University of Art Museum in Berkeley, California, organized a Funk Show there. Selz wanted to showcase the strange mindset in California through an array of Funk pieces. The exhibition featured works from Peter Voulkos, Mowry Baden and Bruce Conner, and it brought national recognition to the movement for the first time. Before this show, not many people outside of the Bay Area had seen or heard of Funk works, which relieved artists of pressures to become successful.\n\nThe characteristics and techniques of Funk art works were more important than the subject matter.\n\nUnlike earlier movements, such as Dada and Surrealism, Funk art was not concerned with public morality. Its artists were committed to identifying with their works on a personal level instead of the social or existential. Through their absurdist works, Funk artists demonstrated personal feelings, emotions and processes and in this way their work had a closer relationship to nature rather than to culture. The works had creative freedom and demonstrated the artists' lives, personalities and experiences. Funk artists treated their work with a sense of humor, senselessness, confrontation, vulgar sexuality and autobiographical references. In their pieces, Funk artists are sometimes self-deprecating and ironic. Although the works are humorous, they sometimes cover a more serious undertone. Since there was no clear meaning in many pieces, Funk art contains a sense of ambiguity.\n\nFunk art was inspired by popular culture, contains attitude and uses an unlikely mixture of materials and techniques. One of the movement's main characteristics is that it incorporates found objects from consumer culture. It was a part of the larger movement called Assemblage, which also included paintings that were composed of three-dimensional objects. Bruce Conner was known for his assemblage works, including \"Arachne\", \"Spider Lady\", \"For Marilyn\", \"Cosmic Death Song\", and \"Tick Tock Jelly Clock Cosmotron\". Many of the Funk assemblage pieces were composed of thrown out garbage to demonstrate that Funk art was not a part of consumer culture. The pieces are usually three dimensional, but they resemble paintings more than sculptures. Jess and Wally Hedrick were two of the first Funk artists to use found objects in their works. The objects used tended to be items that were not meant to be noticed. The idea of using ordinary subject matter and common objects in art was influenced by Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns. This concept is also influenced by the pieces of the Dada movement because both art movements use everyday objects and have a sense of freedom.The objects and debris used in works symbolized decay many of the time. Due to the artists lack of concern with impeccable technique, durability or form, the works each possessed a somewhat sloppy finish.\n\nNon-functional ceramic art was an important element in the Funk art movement, especially in Regina and the San Francisco Bay Area. Funk art ceramics were primarily composed from clay and possessed themes that were thought of as inappropriate by artists belonging to other movements. Similar to its three dimensional paintings, Funk ceramics contained vulgar male humor, as well as sexual references. Like other Funk works, the ceramics also used funny and absurd styles and images to relay the message that people should not take art or themselves too seriously. The ceramics were unrefined and blatant, and they all possessed the idea of a functionless sculpture for sculptures sake.\n\nRobert Arneson started the ceramic art movement within Funk art in the Bay Area. Before him, ceramics were considered more of a craft rather than a prestigious art form. After him, ceramics caught on as a serious form of art nationally. Robert Arneson created many ceramic sculptures, which eventually became a common work of Funk artists. Some believe his ceramics were influenced by pop art sculptures because they were of mundane, everyday objects. A main difference was that Robert Arneson also included personal elements to his sculptures, which was a defining factor of Funk art. His works were playful and full of color.\nRobert Arneson, along with other Funk artists, such as Roy De Forest, Manuel Neri, and William T. Wiley taught at the University of California, Davis, which was a center for the movement. Students from University of California, Davis, such as Margaret Dodd, David Gilhooly, Victor Cicansky, Chris Unterseher, and Peter Vandenberge, continued Arneson's ceramics tradition.\n\nIn 1967, Robert Arneson drafted ceramicist Clayton Bailey to cover his classes at University of California, Davis while he took a sabbatical. Bailey, who hailed from Wisconsin, had been pursuing a personal, but similar artistic vision to what had been happening with the Funk art movement in northern California. In 1968, Bailey permanently relocated to the Bay Area, where he soon became a key figure in the region's developing Funk art scene.\n\nFounded in Folsom, California, in 1962, the Candy Store Gallery played a key role in promoting Funk art by means of regular exhibitions until its closure in 1992.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21378333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21378333", "title": "Gynodioecy", "text": "Gynodioecy\n\nGynodioecy is a rare breeding system that is found in certain flowering plant species in which female and hermaphroditic plants coexist within a population. Gynodioecy is the evolutionary intermediate stage between hermaphroditism (exhibiting both female and male parts) and dioecy (having two distinct morphs: male and female). Gynodioecy is the opposite of androdioecy, which is a breeding system consisting of male and hermaphroditic plants in a population. Gynodioecy occurs as a result of a genetic mutation that inhibits a hermaphroditic plant from producing pollen, while keeping the female reproductive parts intact. Gynodioecy is extremely rare, with fewer than 1% of angiosperm species exhibiting the breeding system. Some notable species that exhibit a gynodioecious mating system include \"Beta vulgaris\" (wild beet), \"Lobelia siphilitica\", \"Silene\", and Lamiaceae.\n\nGynodioecy is often referred to as the evolutionary intermediate state between hermaphroditism and dioecy. Gynodioecy has been investigated by biologists dating as far back as to Charles Darwin. Gynodioecy can evolve from hermaphroditism due to certain environmental factors. If enough resources in a population are allocated to the female functions in a hermaphroditic species, gynodioecy will ensue. On the other hand, if more of those resources are divvied up to favor a hermaphrodite’s male functions, androdioecy will result. A high rate of self-pollination in a population facilitates the maintenance of gynodioecy by increasing the inbreeding costs for hermaphrodites. Thus, as the rate of inbreeding increases in a population, the more likely gynodioecy is to occur.\n\nSince hermaphrodites can reproduce on their own, they are referred to as being self-compatible. On the contrary, non-hermaphroditic plants are self-incompatible. Research has shown that a species can be either gynodioecious or self-incompatible, but very rarely is there a co-occurrence between the two. Therefore, gynodioecy and self-incompatibility tend to prevent each other’s maintenance. Self-incompatibility of plants helps maintain androdioecy in plants, since males are in competition with only hermaphrodites to sire ovules. Self-incompatibility leads to a loss in gynodioecy, since neither hermaphrodites nor females have to deal with inbreeding depression.\n\nTwo scenarios have been proposed to explain the evolutionary dynamics of the maintenance of gynodioecy. The first scenario, known as the balancing selection theory, considers the genetic factors that control gynodioecy over long evolutionary time scales. The balancing selection leads to cycles that explain the normal sex ratios in gynodioecious populations. The second scenario, known as epidemic dynamics, involves the arrival and loss of new cytoplasmic male sterility genes in new populations. These are the same genes that invade hermaphrodite populations and eventually result in gynodioecy.\n\nGynodioecy is determined as a result of a genetic mutation that stops a plant from producing pollen, but still allows normal female reproductive features. In plants, nuclear genes are inherited from both parents, but all the cytoplasmic genes come from the mother. This holds true in order to compensate for male gametes being smaller and more motile while female gametes are larger. It makes sense for most plants to be hermaphrodites, since they are sessile and unable to find mates as easily as animals can.\n\nCytoplasmic male sterility genes, usually found in the mitochondrial genome, show up and are established when female fertility is just slightly more than the hermaphroditic fertility. The female only needs to make slightly more or better seeds than hermaphrodites since the mitochondrial genome is maternally inherited. Research done on plants has shown that hermaphroditic plants are in constant battles against organelle genes trying to kill their male parts. In over 140 plant species, these “male killer” genes have been observed. Male sterility genes cause plants to grow anthers that are stunted or withered and as a result, do not produce pollen. In most plants, there are nuclear fertility restoring genes that counteract the work of the male sterility genes, maintaining the hermaphroditic state of the plant. However, in some species of plants, the male sterility genes win the battle over the nuclear fertility restoring genes, and gynodioecy occurs.\n\nMaize farmers take advantage of gynodioecy to produce favorable hybrid maize seeds. The farmers deliberately make use of the gynodioecy that develops in the maize, resulting in a population of male-sterile and female-fertile individuals. They then introduce a new strain of male-sterile individuals and the breeders are able to collect the more favorable hybrid seeds.\n\nGynodioecy is a rare, but widely distributed sexual system in angiosperm species. Gynodioecy is found in at least 81 different angiosperm families. Of all the angiosperms on Earth, less than 1% of them are gynodioecious species. One likely explanation for its rarity is due to its limited evolution. Since females are at a disadvantage when compared to hermaphrodites, they will never be able to evolve as quickly. In addition, gynodioecy is rare because the mechanism that favor females and cause gynodioecy in some populations only operate in some plant lineages, but not others.\n\nThe reason for this variation in the rarity of gynodioecy stems from certain phenotypic traits or ecological factors that promote and favor the presence of female plants in a population. For example, a herbaceous growth form is much more highly favored in gynodioecious species of Lamiaceae as compared to woody lineages. Herbaceous growth form is also associated with a reduced pollen limitation and an increased self-fertilization. A reduced pollen limitation may decrease seed quantity and quality. Woody growth form Lamiaceae are more pollen-limited, and thus, produce less seeds and seeds of lower quality, thus favoring the female herbaceous growth form. Gynodioecy is rare because some sexual systems are more evolutionary liable to change in certain lineages as compared to others.\n\nThe maintenance of gynodioecy at first may seem like a mystery. Theoretically, hermaphrodites should have the evolutionary and reproductive advantage over females in a population because they naturally can produce more offspring. Hermaphrodites can transmit their genes through both pollen and ovules, whereas females can only transmit genes via ovules. Thus, in order for females to remain viable in a population, they would have to be twice as successful as hermaphrodites.\n\nIt would appear that gynodioecy should not persist. In order for it to be maintained, the females need to have some sort of a reproductive advantage over the hermaphroditic population, known as female compensation or female advantage. Female advantage includes an increase in saved energy from not producing pollen and making seedlings of higher quality, since hermaphrodite seedlings are susceptible to homozygous deleterious alleles. Additional advantages include more flowers, higher fruit set, higher total seed production, heavier seeds, and better germination rates.\n\nThe following species have been observed to exhibit a gynodioecious breeding system:\n\n"}
{"id": "30899693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30899693", "title": "Henry W. and Albert A. Berg Collection of English and American Literature", "text": "Henry W. and Albert A. Berg Collection of English and American Literature\n\nThe Henry W. and Albert A. Berg Collection of English and American Literature, a special collection within the New York Public Library, is one of the major collection of rare books, first editions, and manuscripts in English and American literature. It was donated by Albert Berg and his brother Henry and formally endowed in 1941.\n\n"}
{"id": "22432819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22432819", "title": "Honorifics (linguistics)", "text": "Honorifics (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, an honorific (abbreviated ) is a grammatical or morphosyntactic form that encodes the relative social status of the participants of the conversation. Distinct from honorific titles, linguistic honorifics convey formality , social distance, politeness , humility , deference, or respect through the choice of an alternate form such as an affix, clitic, grammatical case, change in person or number, or an entirely different lexical item. A key feature of an honorific system is that one can convey the same message in both honorific and familiar forms—i.e., it is possible to say something like (as in an oft-cited example from Brown and Levinson) \"The soup is hot\" in a way that confers honor or deference on one of the participants of the conversation.\n\nHonorific speech is a type of social deixis, as an understanding of the context—in this case, the social status of the speaker relative to the other participants or bystanders—is crucial to its use.\n\nThere are three main types of honorifics, categorized according to the individual whose status is being expressed:\n\n\nAddressee honorifics express the social status of the person being spoken to (the hearer), regardless of what is being talked about. For example, Javanese has three different words for \"house\" depending on the status level of the person spoken to. Referent honorifics express the status of the person being spoken about. In this type of honorific, both the referent (the person being spoken about) and the target (the person whose status is being expressed) of the honorific expression are the same. This is exemplified by the T–V distinction present in many Indo-European languages, in which a different 2nd person pronoun (such as \"tu\" or \"vous\" in French) is chosen based on the relative social status of the speaker and the hearer (the hearer, in this case, also being the referent). Bystander honorifics express the status of someone who is nearby, but not a participant in the conversation (the overhearer). These are the least common, and are found primarily in avoidance speech such as the \"mother-in-law languages\" of aboriginal Australia, where one changes one's speech in the presence of an in-law or other tabooed relative.\n\nA fourth type, the Speaker/Situation honorific, does not concern the status of any participant or bystander, but the circumstances and environment in which the conversation is occurring. The classic example of this is diglossia, in which an elevated or \"high form\" of a language is used in situations where more formality is called for, and a vernacular or \"low form\" of a language is used in more casual situations.\n\nOne common system of honorific speech is T–V distinction. The terms \"T-form\" and \"V-form\" to describe the second person pronouns \"tu\" and \"vos\", respectively, were introduced by Brown and Gilman, whose 1960 study of them introduced the idea that the use of these forms was governed by \"power and solidarity.\" The Latin \"tu\" refers to the singular T-form, while the Latin \"vos\" refers to the V-form, which is usually plural-marked. \"Tu\" is used to express informality, and in contrast, \"vos\" is used to express politeness and formality. T–V distinction is characteristic of many Indo-European languages, including Persian, Portuguese, Polish, and Russian, as detailed below.\n\nThe pronouns \"tu\" (informal) and \"você\" (more formal) fit the T–V pattern nicely, except that their use varies a great deal from region to region. For instance, in most parts of Brazil, \"tu\" is not used; whereas in the northern state of Maranhão and southern regions, it is. A third lexical option is added to the honorific scheme: \"o senhor\" and \"a senhora\" (literally meaning “sir” and “madam”, which are third-person references that are used in direct address (that would \"normally\" require the second person \"tu\" or \"você\"). These forms are highly formal and used when speaking “upward” and always used in formal correspondence, such as in governmental letters, to authorities, customers and elders. See more discussion at Portuguese personal pronouns.\n\nAs an Indo-European language the pronouns \"tu\" (informal) and \"Shoma\" (more formal form of second-person single and also used alone for second-person plural) fit the T–V pattern except that the Name \"Shoma\" is actually a modern Persian word originating from the old Avestan Persian words \"shê-Va\" where \"Va\" or \"Ve\" used as more formal form of second-person single and also used alone for second-person plural and \"shê\" which means for him or his. Therefore the words \"shê-Va\" together, had been used to refer to formal form of second-male person single and also used alone for second-male person plural.\n\nPolish has a simpler grammatical and lexical politeness incorporated into its language, in comparison to Japanese and Korean. It uses grammatical category of honorifics within certain verbs and personal pronouns; this honorific system is namely split into two basic levels – the familiar (T) and the polite (V):\nSometimes \"panna\" is used for an unmarried woman, along with using different suffixes for last name, although it's mostly obsolete and can be considered condescending. Using first name alone is familiar (but not necessarily intimate, as in Japanese—it's commonly used among colleagues, for example). Using the last name alone is extremely rare and when it's employed, it's usually very rude.\nThese can be used as a prefix to a first or last name, as in the example:\nWhich are more formal than using the typical familiar \"ty\"/\"on\"/\"ona\", but they may imply familiarity, especially in second person. Using a prefix with the first name is almost always considered familiar and possibly rude. Using the last name with a prefix in second person can still be considered impolite. Using the set phrase \"proszę pana\", \"proszę pani\" is preferred (and polite) when drawing attention (in a way akin to using \"sir\" in English).\n\nIn addition, there are two different V forms within the honorific usage – the more formal and the less formal form. The less formal form is more colloquial and used in daily speech more frequently. The higher honorific level includes “compound” pronouns consisting of prefixal \"pan\" or \"pani\" in conjunction with professional titles. Here are some examples (for males/females resp.):\nThese professional titles are more formal as the speaker humbles him/herself and puts the addressee at a higher rank or status. These can also be used along with a name (only last or both names), but that's extremely formal and almost never used in direct conversation.\nFor some professional titles (e.g. \"doktor\", \"profesor\"), the \"pan\"/\"pani\" can be dropped, resulting in a form which is less formal, but still polite. Unlike the above, this can also precede a name (almost always last), but it's seldom used in second person.\nAs with \"pan\"/\"pani\" phrases such as \"proszę pana ministra\" (which can be translated \"Minister, sir\") can also be used for calling attention, although they are less common. The \"pan\"/\"pani\" can also be dropped with some titles in the phrase, but it's even less common and can be inappropriate.\n\nHistorical factors played a major role in shaping the Polish usage of honorifics. Poland’s history of nobility was the major source for Polish politeness, which explains how the honorific male-marked pronoun \"pan\" (\"pani\" is female-marked) was derived from the old word for “lord.” There are separate honorific pronouns used to address a priest (\"ksiądz\"), a nun or nurse (\"siostra\"). It is acceptable to replace \"siostra\" with \"pani\" when addressing a nurse, but it is unacceptable when speaking to a nun. Likewise, it is unacceptable to replace \"ksiądz\" with \"pan\" when speaking to a priest. The intimate T form is marked as neutral when used reciprocally between children, relatives, students, soldiers and young people.\n\nNative Russian speakers usually know when to use the informal second person singular pronoun (\"ty\") or the formal form (\"vy\"). The practice of being informal is known as \"týkan’e\" while the practice of being formal and polite is referred to \"výkan’e\".\n\nIt has been suggested that the origin of \"vy\"-address came from the Roman Empire and the French due to the influence of their language and culture on the Russian aristocracy. In many other European countries, \"ty\" initially was used to address any one person or object, regardless of age and social ranking. \"Vy\" was then used to address multiple people or objects altogether. Later, after being in contact with foreigners, the second person plural pronoun acquired another function. Displaying respect and formality, it was used for addressing aristocrats – people of higher social status and power.\n\nAnother theory suggests that in Russia, the Emperor first adopted the plural \"vy\"-form. The Emperor is considered plural because he is the representation of the people. Likewise, the Emperor could refer to himself using \"vos\" (we), to represent \"I and my people\". From the courts, the middle and lower classes gradually adopted this usage.\n\nThe younger generation and commoners, with minimal education still address each other using \"ty\" with no connotation of disrespect, however. Certain Russians who are used to \"vy\"-address may perceive the ones who don’t differentiate between \"ty\" and \"vy\" forms as uneducated, offensive and uncultured. This leads to the conclusion that this honorific was not a Russian innovation. Instead, the use of \"vy\" in both the singular and plural form is due to the exposure to the Latin historical and political developments. The usage of \"vy\" did not spread throughout the Russian population quickly; as a result, the usage was inconsistent until the eighteenth century, when \"Vy\" became more prominent in secular literature.\n\nAvoidance speech, or \"mother-in-law language,\" is the most common example of a bystander honorific. In this honorific system, a speaker switches to a different variety of speech in the presence of an in-law or other relative for whom an taboo exists. These languages usually have the same phonology and grammatical structure as the standard language they derived from, but are characterized by a smaller lexical inventory than the standard language. Avoidance speech of this sort is primarily found in Australian Aboriginal languages such as Dyirbal, but can also be found in some Native American languages, including Navajo, and some Bantu languages, including Zulu.\n\nThe Dyirbal language has a special avoidance speech style called \"Jalnguy\" that is used by a speaker when in the presence of the speaker’s mother-in-law. This mother-in-law language has the same phonology and grammar as the everyday style, but uses an almost totally distinct set of lexemes when in the presence of the tabooed relative. This special lexicon has fewer lexemes than the everyday style and typically employs only transitive verb roots whereas everyday style uses non-cognate transitive and intransitive roots. By using this mother-in-law language a speaker then indicates a deferential social relationship.\n\nIn Guugu-Yimidhirr, a traditional Australian Aboriginal language, special avoidance lexemes are used to express deference when in the presence of tabooed in-law relatives. In other words, speakers will either be completely prohibited from speaking to one’s mother-in-law or must employ “avoidance language” to one’s brother-in-law. The brother-in-law language involves a special set of words to replace regular Guugu-Yimidhirr words and the speaker must avoid words which could suggest reference to genitalia or bodily acts. This brother-in-law language therefore indexes a deferential social relationship of the brother-in-law to the speaker and is reflected in the appropriate social behavior of Guugu-Yimidhirr society. For example, one avoids touching tabooed in-laws, looking at them, joking with them, and cursing in their presence.\n\nThe Mortlockese Language uses avoidance speech between genders. In Mortlock culture, there are many restrictions and rules when interacting with people of the opposite gender, such as how only males are allowed to go fishing or how women are supposed to lower their posture in the presence of men. This avoidance speech showcases one of these restrictions/rules. This gender-restrictive vocabulary can only be used when speaking to people of the same gender. For men, this is sometimes referred to as \"kapsen leefalang\" or the speech of the cookhouse.\n\nModern English has no grammatical system of honorific speech, with formality and informality being conveyed entirely by register, word choice, tone, rhetorical strategy, etc. Middle English once exhibited a T–V distinction between the 2nd person singular pronoun \"thou\" and the 2nd person plural \"ye\" and later \"you\", with the latter being used as an honorific regardless of the number of addressees. \"Thou\" and its associated forms have fallen into disuse and are considered archaic, though it is often used in recreations of archaic-sounding speech.\nIt has also survived in some dialect forms of English, notably in some regions of Yorkshire, especially amongst the older and more rural populations. \"Ye\" usage can still be found in pockets of the east coast of North America, such as rural Newfoundland.\n\nGerman has 'Sie' as formal 'you', & 'du' as the informal.\n\nChinese has '您'(nín) as formal 'you', & '你'(nǐ) as the informal.\n\nJapanese honorific speech requires either honorific morphemes to be appended to verbs and some nouns or verbs and pronouns be replaced by words that mean the same but incorporate different honorific connotations. Japanese honorific speech is broadly referred to as \"keigo\" (literally \"respectful language\"), and includes three main categories according to Western linguistic theory: \"sonkeigo\", respectful language; \"kensongo\" or \"kenjōgo\", humble language; and \"teineigo\", polite language.\n\n\nAnother subcategory of \"keigo\" is \"bikago\" or \"bika-hyōgen\", which means \"word beautification\" and is used to demonstrate the quality of the speaker’s language. Each type of speech has its own vocabulary and verb endings.\n\nJapanese linguist Hatsutarō Ōishi distinguishes four sources of respect as the primary reasons for using \"keigo\":\n\nComparatively, a more contemporary linguistic account by functional linguist Yasuto Kikuchi posits that honorific speech is governed by social factors and psychological factors.\n\nSpeech levels, although not as developed or as complex as honorific speech found in Japanese, are but one of a complex and nuanced aspect of Javanese etiquette: etiquette governs not only speaking but, \"sitting, speaking, standing, pointing, composing one's countenance\" and one could add mastery of English and Western table manners.\n\nAccording to Wolfowitz, as quoted in:\n\n\"The system is based on sets of precisely ranked or style-coded morphemes that are semantically equivalent but stylistically contrastive\"\n\nimportant is an honorific vocabulary referring to the possessions, attributes, states and actions of persons, a vocabulary that includes honorific kin terms.\n\nThe Javanese perception of this is best summarized as per Errington's anecdote of an old Javanese man explaining:\n\nWhenever two people meet they should ask themselves: \"Who is this person? Who am I? What is this person to me? Balanced against one another on a scale: this is \"unggah-unggah\"- relative value\nThe understanding of honorifics is heavily emphasized by speakers of Javanese. High-strata Javanese will bluntly state: \"to be human is to be Javanese\". Those who are \"sampun Jawa\" or \"already Javanese\" are those who have a good grasp of social interaction and stratified Javanese language and applied to foreigners as well. Children, boors, simpletons, the insane, the immoral are \"durung Jawa\": not yet Javanese.\n\nJavanese speech is stratified. The three levels are:\n\"Krama\" is pronounced as [krɔmɔ]\n\nAll these categories are ranked according to age, rank, kinship relations, and “intimacy.”\n\nIf a speaker is uncertain about the addressee’s age or rank, they commence with \"krama inggil\" and adapt their speech strata according to the highest level of formality, moving down to lower levels. \"Krama\" is usually learned from parents and teachers, and \"Ngoko\" is usually learned from interacting with peers at a younger age.\n\nJavanese women are expected to address their husbands in front of others, including their children in a respectful manner. Such speech pattern is especially more pronounced in areas where arranged marriage are prominent and within households where the husband is considerably older than the wife. Husbands generally address their wives by their first name, pet name, or “younger sibling” (\"dhik\" or \"mbak lik\") while wives generally address their husbands as “elder brother” (\"mas\"), this is often due to actual age differences, and it serves the females' vanity to not be called \"older sister\" (mbak).\n\nHigh-strata children are expected to speak in krama inggil to both father and mother. This is less reinforced as the social strata descends, to the point of being near non-existent especially among the modern working class strata who may have the necessity of both parents working.\nAt this point grandparents take the role of educating the children to correct language usage.\n\nWomen are considered the custodians of language and culture within the household.\n\nKorean honorific speech is a mixture of subject honorification, object exaltation, and the various speech styles. Depending on how these three factors are used, the speaker highlights different aspects of the relationship between the speaker, the subject, and the listener (who may also be the subject).\n\nThe Korean language incorporates a hierarchy of speech styles divided according to its system of honorifics each with its own set of verb endings.\n\n\nThese six speech styles are sometimes divided into honorific and non-honorific levels where the formal and polite styles are honorific and the rest are non-honorific. According to Strauss and Eun, the two honorific speech levels are “prototypically used among non-intimate adults of relatively equal rank”. Comparatively, the non-honorific speech levels are typically used between intimates, in-group members, or in “downward directions of address by the speaker to his or her interlocutor.\"\n\nThe Nahuatl language, spoken in scattered communities in rural areas of Central Mexico, utilizes a system of honorific speech to mark social distance and respect. The honorific speech of the Nahuatl dialects spoken in the Malinche Volcano area of Puebla and Tlaxcala in Mexico is divided into four levels: an “intimate or subordinating” Level I; a “neutral, socially distant” or “respectful between intimates” Level II; “noble” or “reverential” Level III; and the “compadrazgo” or “maximally social distant” Level IV.\n\nLevel I is typically used by non-age-mates and non-intimates and is unmarked in terms of prefixation or suffixation of the listener and verbs. Level II is marked by the prefix on- on the verb and is used between intimates. Some Nahuatl speakers have been observed to alternate between Level I and Level II for one listener. The use of both levels is believed to show some respect or to not subordinate the listener. Level III is marked by the prefix \"on-\", the reflexive prefix \"mo-\", and an appropriate transitivizing suffix based on the verb stem. Verbs in Level III may additionally be marked with the reverential suffix \"–tzinōa\". Finally, Level IV is typically used between people who share a ritual kinship relationship (e.g. parent with godparent, godparent with godparent of the same child). Level IV is marked by a proclitic (i.e. word that depends on the following word and works similarly to an affix, such as the word “a” or “an” in English) \"ma\". Another important aspect of Level IV is that it addresses the listener in 3rd person whereas Level I through III all use 2nd person forms. By using this 3rd person form, maximal social distance is achieved.\n\nThe Mortlockese Language is an Austronesian language spoken primarily on the Mortlock islands in Micronesia. In Mortlock culture, there is a hierarchy with chiefs called \"samwool.\" When speaking to these chiefs or to anyone of higher status, one must use honorifics (in Mortlockese called \"kapas pwéteete\" or \"kapas amáfel\") in order to convey respect. In the Mortlockese Language, there are only two levels of speaking - common language and respectful language(honorifics). While respectful language is used when speaking to people of higher status, common language is used when speaking to anyone of the same or lesser status. One example showing the difference between respectful and common language can be seen in the word sleep. The word for sleep using common language is \"maúr\" while the word for sleep using respectful language is \"saipash\". Along with the respectful language, there are formal greetings called \"tiirou\" or \"fairo\" that are used in meetings and gatherings. In English, some examples of formal greetings would be \"good evening\" or \"it's a pleasure to meet you\" or \"how are you.\" These formal greetings not only use words, but also gestures. It is the combination of the words and gestures that create the \"tiirou\" or \"fairo\"(formal greeting). In English a formal greeting like this would be like saying \"nice to meet you\" while offering a handshake.\n\nIn Pohnpeian, honorific speech is especially important when interacting with chiefs and during Christian church services. Even radio announcements use honorifics, specifically bystander honorifics, because a chief or someone of higher status could potentially be listening. Pohnpeian honorific speech consists of:\nHonorific speech is usually performed through the choice of verbs and possessive classifier. There are only status-raising nouns but none for status lowering; there are only status-lowering pronouns but none for status-raising.\n\nThe construction of possessive classifiers depends on ownership, temporality, degrees of control, locative associations, and status. In addition to status-rising and status-lowering possessive classifiers, there are also common (non-status marked) possessive classifiers. Status-rising and status-lowering possessive classifiers have different properties of control and temporality. Common possessive classifiers are divided into three main categories – relatives, personal items, and food/drink.\n\nGiven that rank is inherited matrilineally, maternal relatives have specific classifiers, but paternal relatives do not. Personal items that are in close contact with the higher ranks are marked with honorific language. Food is related to social ranking; there is a hierarchy of food distribution. The best share of food is first distributed to the chief and people of higher status. In possessive constructions, food is linked to low-status possession, but not as heavily link to high-status possession. Tungoal (“food/eating”) is used for all categories of low-status possessives; however, the most widely used high-status classifier, sapwelline (“land/hand”) is not semantically connected to food. There are separate terms for food of high-status people – \"koanoat\", \"pwenieu\", and \"sak\". On Pohnpei, it is also important to follow a specific order of serving food. The higher-ranked people eat first, both in casual family settings and community events. The lower-status people receive the “leftovers” or the weaker portion.\n\nIn Wuvulu grammar, the honorific dual is used to convey respect, especially towards in-laws. The second person dual pronoun, \"amurua\" literally translates to 'you two', but can also be used as an honorific to address one. This communicates to the individual being spoken to is worth the respect of two individuals. It is undocumented if there are other honorifics greater than this one.\n\nEx. Mafufuo, meru. (Good Morning, you two)\n\nNote: \"Meru\" is the shortened version of \"amurua\"\n\nThis sentence can be used to speak with one or two people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1128564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1128564", "title": "ISO 690", "text": "ISO 690\n\nISO 690 is an ISO standard for bibliographic referencing in different kind of documents. It includes electronic documents, and specifies the elements to be included in references to published documents, and the order in which the elements of the reference should be stated. Punctuation and style (output mask) are not part of the standard; it is a standard for content more than for presentation. Thus, it influences a user's XML and XSL, although not necessarily the CSS.\n\nISO 690 covers references to published material in both print and non-print form. The latest version was published in 2010 and covers all kinds of information resources, including monographs, serials, contributions, patents, cartographic materials, electronic information resources (including computer software and databases), music, recorded sound, prints, photographs, graphic and audiovisual works, and moving images.\n\nEven though ISO 690:2010(E) generally suggests to place the date of publication after \"place\" and \"publisher\" (referred to as \"production information\") it also hints to the Harvard system style (name-date system) and provides also various examples of its way of citation in the annex of ISO 690:2010(E).\n\nUntil 2010, ISO 690 appeared in two ISO documents:\n\nActual status of standard is ISO 690:2010. The material is copyrighted and not free for distribution. Basically, the application of older version of ISO standard is not a fault.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47725493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47725493", "title": "International Center for East Asian Archaeology and Cultural History", "text": "International Center for East Asian Archaeology and Cultural History\n\nThe International Center for East Asian Archaeology and Cultural History (abbreviated ICEAACH, simplified Chinese: 东亚考古与文化历史国际研究中心; traditional Chinese: 東亞考古與文化歷史國際研究中心; pinyin: dōng yà kǎo gǔ yǔ wén huà lì shǐ guó jì yán jiū zhōng xīn) is an internationally recognized hub for trans-disciplinary research and public outreach in East Asian archaeology and cultural heritage. As part of Boston University’s Department of Archaeology, the primary mission of ICEAACH is to advance the field of East Asian archaeology and promote knowledge and understanding of East Asia’s rich cultural heritage.\n\nThe International Center for East Asian Archaeology and Cultural History (ICEAACH) was established as part of Boston University’s Department of Archaeology in 1999 with a grant from the Henry Luce Foundation. Since its founding, ICEAACH has come to occupy a unique position in our field as a research institution specifically dedicated to promoting East Asian archaeology and cultural heritage. ICEAACH’s facilities, such as a major East Asian archaeology library, experts staff—paired with the resources of the Department of Archaeology, and home to one of the largest archaeology programs in the US—affords students, researchers, and the public opportunities found nowhere else in the United States. With strong ties to leading research institutions across East and Southeast Asia, ICEAACH has become an important collaborative hub for Western archaeologists pursuing East Asian research, and for East and Southeast Asian scholars and institutions seeking Western resources and expertise, broadening understanding of Asia’s place in human history. ICEAACH's unique position helps archaeologists from around the globe transcend the cultural, political, and organizational barriers that have traditionally hindered research in East Asian archaeology.\n\nWith support from Boston University, numerous foundations, and a growing group of dedicated private donors, ICEAACH provides a wide range of important resources and programs, including:\n"}
{"id": "263613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263613", "title": "Jacques Barzun", "text": "Jacques Barzun\n\nJacques Martin Barzun (; November 30, 1907October 25, 2012) was a French-American historian known for his studies of the history of ideas and cultural history. He wrote about a wide range of subjects, including baseball, mystery novels, and classical music, and was also known as a philosopher of education. In the book \"Teacher in America\" (1945), Barzun influenced the training of schoolteachers in the United States.\n\nHe published more than forty books, was awarded the American Presidential Medal of Freedom, and was dubbed a knight of the French Legion of Honor. The historical retrospective \"From Dawn to Decadence: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life, 1500 to the Present\" (2000), widely considered his \"magnum opus\", was published when he was 93 years old.\n\nJacques Martin Barzun was born in Créteil, France, to Henri-Martin and Anna-Rose Barzun, and spent his childhood in Paris and Grenoble. His father was a member of the Abbaye de Créteil group of artists and writers, and also worked in the French Ministry of Labor. His parents' Paris home was frequented by many modernist artists of \"Belle Époque\" France, such as the poet Guillaume Apollinaire, the Cubist painters Albert Gleizes and Marcel Duchamp, the composer Edgard Varèse, and the writers Richard Aldington and Stefan Zweig.\n\nWhile on a diplomatic mission to the United States during the First World War (1914–18), Barzun's father so liked the country he decided that his son should receive an American university education; thus, the twelve-year-old Jacques Martin attended a university-preparatory school, then Columbia University, where he obtained a liberal arts education.\n\nAs an undergraduate at Columbia College, Barzun was drama critic for the \"Columbia Daily Spectator\", a prize-winning president of the Philolexian Society, the Columbia literary and debate club, and valedictorian of the class of 1927. He obtained his Ph.D. from Columbia in 1932 and taught history there from 1928 to 1955, becoming the Seth Low Professor of History and a founder of the discipline of cultural history. For years, he and literary critic Lionel Trilling conducted Columbia's famous Great Books course. He was elected Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1954.\n\nFrom 1955 to 1968, he served as Dean of the Graduate School, Dean of Faculties, and Provost, while also being an Extraordinary Fellow of Churchill College at the University of Cambridge. From 1968 until his 1975 retirement, he was University Professor at Columbia. From 1951 to 1963 Barzun was one of the managing editors of The Readers' Subscription Book Club, and its successor the Mid-Century Book Society (the other managing editors being W. H. Auden and Lionel Trilling), and afterwards was Literary Adviser to Charles Scribner's Sons, 1975 to 1993.\n\nIn 1936, Barzun married Mariana Lowell, a violinist from a prominent Boston family. They had three children: James, Roger, and Isabel. Mariana died in 1979. In 1980, Barzun married Marguerite Lee Davenport. From 1996 the Barzuns lived in her hometown, San Antonio, Texas. His granddaughter Lucy Barzun Donnelly was a producer of the award-winning HBO film \"Grey Gardens\". His grandson, Matthew Barzun, is a businessman who served from 2009-2011 as the U.S. Ambassador to Sweden, and in 2013 was appointed Ambassador to the United Kingdom. On May 14, 2012 Jacques Barzun attended a symphony performance in his honor at which works by his favorite composer, Hector Berlioz, were performed. He attended in a wheelchair and delivered a brief address to the crowd.\n\nBarzun died peacefully at his home in San Antonio, Texas on October 25, 2012, aged 104. \"The New York Times\", which compared him with such scholars as Sidney Hook, Daniel Bell, and Lionel Trilling, called him a \"distinguished historian, essayist, cultural gadfly and educator who helped establish the modern discipline of cultural history\". Naming Edward Gibbon, Jacob Burckhardt and Thomas Babington Macaulay as his intellectual ancestors, and calling him \"one of the West's most eminent historians of culture\" and \"a champion of the liberal arts tradition in higher education,\" who \"deplored what he called the 'gangrene of specialism'\", \"The Telegraph\" remarked, \"The sheer scope of his knowledge was extraordinary. Barzun’s eye roamed over the full spectrum of Western music, art, literature and philosophy.\" Essayist Joseph Epstein, remembering him in the \"Wall Street Journal\" as a \"flawless and magisterial\" writer who tackled \"Darwin, Marx, Wagner, Berlioz, William James, French verse, English prose composition, university teaching, detective fiction, [and] the state of intellectual life\", described Barzun as a tall, handsome man with an understated elegance, thoroughly Americanized, but retaining an air of old-world culture, cosmopolitan in an elegant way rare for intellectuals\".\n\nOver seven decades, Barzun wrote and edited more than forty books touching on an unusually broad range of subjects, including science and medicine, psychiatry from Robert Burton through William James to modern methods, and art, and classical music; he was one of the all-time authorities on Hector Berlioz. Some of his books—particularly \"Teacher in America\" and \"The House of Intellect\"—enjoyed a substantial lay readership and influenced debate about culture and education far beyond the realm of academic history. Barzun had a strong interest in the tools and mechanics of writing and research. He undertook the task of completing, from a manuscript almost two-thirds of which was in first draft at the author's death, and editing (with the help of six other people), the first edition (published 1966) of \"Follett's Modern American Usage\". Barzun was also the author of books on literary style (\"Simple and Direct\", 1975), on the crafts of editing and publishing (\"On Writing, Editing, and Publishing\", 1971), and on research methods in history and the other humanities (\"The Modern Researcher\", which has seen at least six editions).\n\nBarzun did not disdain popular culture: his varied interests included detective fiction and baseball. His widely quoted statement, \"Whoever wants to know the heart and mind of America had better learn baseball.\" was inscribed on a plaque at the Baseball Hall of Fame. He edited and wrote the introduction to the 1961 anthology, \"The Delights of Detection\", which included stories by G. K. Chesterton, Dorothy L. Sayers, Rex Stout, and others. In 1971, Barzun co-authored (with Wendell Hertig Taylor), \"A Catalogue of Crime: Being a Reader's Guide to the Literature of Mystery, Detection, & Related Genres\", for which he and his co-author received a Special Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America the following year. Barzun was also an advocate\nof supernatural fiction, and wrote the introduction to \"The Penguin Encyclopedia of Horror and the Supernatural\". Barzun was a proponent of the theatre critic and diarist James Agate, whom he compared in stature to Samuel Pepys. Barzun edited Agate's last two diaries into a new edition in 1951 and wrote an informative introductory essay, \"Agate and His Nine Egos\".\nJacques Barzun continued to write on education and cultural history after retiring from Columbia. At 84 years of age, he began writing his swan song, to which he devoted the better part of the 1990s. The resulting book of more than 800 pages, \"From Dawn to Decadence: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life, 1500 to the Present\", revealed a vast erudition and brilliance undimmed by advanced age. Historians, literary critics, and popular reviewers all lauded \"From Dawn to Decadence\" as a sweeping and powerful survey of modern Western history, and it became a \"New York Times\" bestseller. With this work he gained an international reputation.\nThe book introduces several novel typographic devices that aid an unusually rich system of cross-referencing and help keep many strands of thought in the book under organized control. Most pages feature a sidebar containing a pithy quotation, usually little known, and often surprising or humorous, from some author or historical figure. In 2007, Barzun commented that \"Old age is like learning a new profession. And not one of your own choosing.\" As late as October 2011, one month before his 104th birthday, he reviewed Adam Kirsch's \"Why Trilling Matters\" for the \"Wall Street Journal\".\n\nIn his philosophy of writing history, Barzun emphasized the role of storytelling over the use of academic jargon and detached analysis. He concluded in \"From Dawn to Decadence\" that \"history cannot be a science; it is the very opposite, in that its interest resides in the particulars.\".\n\nIn 1968, Barzun received the St. Louis Literary Award from the Saint Louis University Library Associates. Barzun was appointed a Chevalier of the National Order of the Legion of Honour. In 2003, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President George W. Bush.\n\nIn 1993, his book \"An Essay on French Verse: For Readers of English Poetry\" won the Poetry Society of America's Melville Cane Poetry Award.\n\nOn October 18, 2007, he received the 59th Great Teacher Award of the Society of Columbia Graduates \"in absentia\".\n\nOn March 2, 2011, Barzun was awarded the 2010 National Humanities Medal by President Barack Obama, although he was not expected to be in attendance. On April 16, 2011, he received the Philolexian Award for Distinguished Literary Achievement \"in absentia\".\n\nThe American Philosophical Society honors Barzun with its Jacques Barzun Prize in Cultural History, awarded annually since 1993 to the author of a recent distinguished work of cultural history. He also received the Gold Medal for Criticism from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, of which he was twice president.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1896957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1896957", "title": "Joseph Epstein (writer)", "text": "Joseph Epstein (writer)\n\nJoseph Epstein (born January 9, 1937) is an essayist, short-story writer, and editor. From 1974 to 1998 he was the editor of the magazine \"The American Scholar\".\n\nEpstein was born in Chicago, Illinois in 1937. He graduated from Senn High School and attended the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign. He received a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Chicago and served in the U.S. Army from 1958 to 1960. From 1972 to 2002, he was a lecturer in English and Writing at Northwestern University and is an Emeritus Lecturer of English there.\n\nFrom 1974 to 1998 he served as editor of \"The American Scholar\" and wrote for it under the pseudonym Aristides. He edited \"The Best American Essays\" (1993), the \"Norton Book of Personal Essays\" (1997), and \"Literary Genius: 25 Classic Writers Who Define English & American Literature\" (2007). His work has appeared in \"The Atlantic\", \"Commentary\", \"Harper's\", \"The New Criterion\", \"The New Republic\", \"The New York Times Book Review\", \"The New Yorker\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"The Weekly Standard, and First Things\". His short stories were included in \"The Best American Short Stories 2007\" and \"The Best American Short Stories 2009\". In 2003, he was awarded a National Humanities Medal by the National Endowment for the Humanities.\n\nEpstein's removal as editor of \"The American Scholar\" in 1998 (following a 1996 vote of the Phi Beta Kappa senate) was controversial. Epstein later said that he was fired \"for being insufficiently correct politically\". Some within Phi Beta Kappa attributed the senate's decision to a desire to attract a younger readership for the journal.\n\nEpstein's essay \"Who Killed Poetry?\", published in \"Commentary\" in 1988, generated discussion in the literary community decades after its publication.\n\nIn September 1970, \"Harper's Magazine\" published an article by Epstein called \"Homo/Hetero: The Struggle for Sexual Identity\" that was criticized for its perceived homophobia. Epstein wrote that he considered homosexuality \"a curse, in a literal sense\" and that his sons could do nothing to make him sadder than \"if any of them were to become homosexual.\" Gay activists characterized the essay as portraying every gay man the author met, or fantasized about meeting, as predatory, sex-obsessed, and a threat to civilization. In the essay, he says that, if possible, \"I would wish homosexuality off the face of the earth\", a statement that was interpreted by gay writer and editor Merle Miller as a call to genocide. A sit-in took place at \"Harper's\" by members of the Gay Activists Alliance.\n\nIn 2015 Epstein wrote an article for \"The Weekly Standard\" in which he mentioned the \"Harper's\" article from 1970. He wrote, \"I am pleased the tolerance for homosexuality has widened in America and elsewhere, that in some respects my own aesthetic sensibility favors much homosexual artistic production... My only hope now is that, on my gravestone, the words Noted Homophobe aren’t carved.\"\n\nWilliam F. Buckley Jr., in his review of \"Snobbery: The American Version\", called Epstein \"perhaps the wittiest writer (working in his genre) alive, the funniest since Randall Jarrell.\" A writer for \"The Forward\" called him \"perhaps the smartest American alive who also writes well.\"\n\nEpstein invented the word \"virtucrat\" and first used it in an article for \"The New York Times Magazine\". He defined a virtucrat as \"any man or woman who is certain that his or her political views are not merely correct but deeply, morally righteous in the bargain.\" In his 2016 essay collection \"Wind Sprints\", he defines it as a person \"whose politics lend them the fine sense of elation that only false virtue makes possible.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "609071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=609071", "title": "Lauren Berlant", "text": "Lauren Berlant\n\nLauren Berlant (born 1957) is the George M. Pullman Distinguished Service Professor of English at the University of Chicago, where she has been teaching since 1984. Berlant received her PhD from Cornell University. She writes and teaches on issues of intimacy and belonging in popular culture, in relation to the history and fantasy of citizenship.\n\nShe writes on public spheres as affect worlds, where affect and emotion lead the way for belonging ahead of the modes of rational or deliberative thought. These attach strangers to each other and shape the terms of the state-civil society relation.\n\nBerlant is the author of a national sentimentality trilogy beginning with \"The Anatomy of National Fantasy: Hawthorne, Utopia, and Everyday Life\" (1991), which looks at the relation between modes of belonging mediated by the state and the law, modes of belonging mediated by the aesthetic, and especially by genre, and modes that grow from within the everyday life of social relations.\n\n\"The Queen of America Goes to Washington City: Essays on Sex and Citizenship\"—the title essay of which won the 1993 Norman Foerster Award for best essay of the year in American Literature—introduced the idea of the “intimate public sphere,” looks at the production of politics and publicness since the Reagan era by way of the circulation of the personal, the sexual, and the intimate. Her following book, \"The Female Complaint: On the Unfinished Business of Sentimentality in American Culture\" was published by Duke University Press in 2008. There, the origin of intimate publics in the mass cultural phenomenon of “women’s culture,\" which crosses over the everyday institutions of intimacy, mass society, and, more distantly and ambivalently, politics, is pursued through readings especially of remade movies, such as Show Boat, Imitation of Life, and Uncle Tom’s Cabin.\n\nHer newest monograph, \"Cruel Optimism\", was published in October, 2011, by Duke University Press. This book works across the U.S. and Europe to assess the level of contemporary crisis as neoliberalism wears away the fantasies of upward mobility associated with the liberal state. Cruel optimism manifests as a relational dynamic which individuals create attachment as “clusters of promises” towards desired object-ideas even when they inhibit the conditions for flourishing and fulfilling such promises. Maintaining attachments that sustain the good life fantasy, no matter how injurious or cruel these attachments may be, allows people to make it through day-to-day life when the day-to-day has become unlivable. Elaborating on the specific dynamics of cruel optimism, Lauren Berlant emphasizes and maintains that it is not the object itself, but rather the relationship: \"A relation of cruel optimism is a double-bind in which your attachment to an object sustains you in life at the same time as that object is actually a threat to your flourishing. So you can’t say that there are objects that have the quality of cruelty or not cruelty, it’s how you have the relationship to them. Like it might be that being in a couple is not a relation of cruel optimism for you, because being in a couple actually makes you feel like you have a grounding in the world, whereas for other people, being in a couple might be, on the one hand, a relief from loneliness, and on the other hand, the overpresence of one person who has to bear the burden of satisfying all your needs. So it’s not the object that’s the problem, but how we learn to be in relation.\"\n\nAn emphasis on the “present,” which she describes as structured through “crisis ordinariness,” turns to affect and aesthetics as a way of apprehending these crises. She suggests that it becomes possible to recognize that certain “genres” are no longer sustainable in the present and that new emergent aesthetic forms are taking hold, alternative genres that allow us to recognize modes of living not rooted in normative good life fantasies. Discussing crisis ordinariness, Berlant describes it as her way \"... of talking about traumas\nof the social that are lived through collectively and that transform the sensorium to a heightened perceptiveness about the unfolding of the historical, and sometimes historic, moment (and sometimes publics organized around those senses, when experienced collectively).\"\n\nShe is a member of Feel Tank Chicago and on the way has edited books on Compassion (2004) and Intimacy (2001), which won an award for being the best special issue among all journals in the same year from the Academy of American Publishers, and which are interlinked with her work in feminist and queer theory in essays like \"Sex in Public\" (\"Critical Inquiry\" (1999)), \"Our Monica, Ourselves: Clinton and the Affairs of State\" (with Lisa Duggan, 2001) and \"Venus Inferred\" (with photographer Laura Letinsky, 2001). Berlant works with many journals, including as editor of \"Critical Inquiry\" and Public Culture, and helped to found and has chaired the Center for Gender Studies at the University of Chicago.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18648235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18648235", "title": "Law review", "text": "Law review\n\nA law review (or law journal) is a scholarly journal focusing on legal issues. Law reviews are a type of legal periodical. In the US, law reviews are normally published by an organization of students at a law school or through a bar association. Outside North America, law reviews are usually edited by senior academics/faculty.\n\nLaw reviews should not be confused with non-scholarly publications such as the \"New York Law Journal\" or \"The American Lawyer\", which are independent, professional newspapers and news-magazines that cover the daily practice of law.\n\nThe primary function of a law review is to publish scholarship in the field of law. Law reviews publish lengthy, comprehensive treatments of subjects (\"articles\"), generally written by law professors, judges, or legal practitioners, as well as shorter pieces, commonly called \"notes\" and \"comments,\" written by law student \"members\" of the law review.\n\nLaw review articles often express the thinking of specialists or experts with regard to problems with current law and potential solutions to those problems. Historically, law review articles have been influential in the development of the law; they have been frequently cited as persuasive authority by the courts in the United States. For example, Justice Stanley Mosk of the Supreme Court of California admitted that he got the idea for market share liability from the \"Fordham Law Review\" comment cited extensively in the court's landmark decision in \"Sindell v. Abbott Laboratories\" (1980). However, in recent years, some have claimed that the traditional influence of law reviews is declining.\n\nMost major American law schools publish a law review (or \"law journal\"), generally dealing with all areas of law and named after the school, and some publish specialized reviews, dealing with a particular area of the law, in addition to or in place of the general law review, such as civil rights and civil liberties, international law, environmental law, or human rights. There are also a small number of journals focusing on statutory, regulatory, and public policy issues. See List of law reviews in the United States for details.\n\nIn recent years, many law reviews have started to publish online-only content in addition to their respective print issues. They offer freely available pieces of short-form legal scholarship, analysis, and commentary. Further, some law journals have abandoned print entirely, instead choosing to publish all of their content only on the Internet.\n\nIn the United States, law reviews are typically edited by a certain percentage of the top students in the class or students who are selected to join after successfully completing a “write on competition” at the end of their first year of law school. As law professor Erwin N. Griswold wrote of the \"Harvard Law Review\": \"Some people are concerned that a major legal periodical in the United States is edited and managed by students. It is an unusual situation, but it started that way, and it developed mightily from its own strength\". During the 1990s, the American Bar Association followed suit and began coordinating its own practitioner journals with law schools, courting student editorial bodies for publications including \"Administrative Law Review\", \"The International Lawyer\", \"Public Contract Law Journal\", and \"The Urban Lawyer\". Despite Griswold's confidence in student editors, criticism of this practice continues. In 2004, Judge Richard Posner wrote a critical account entitled \"Against the Law Reviews\" in the magazine \"Legal Affairs\". However, Posner also wrote that his own time as president of the \"Harvard Law Review\" represented a \"Golden Age ... for student-edited law reviews\".\n\nIn Canada, the fully student-run law reviews (without a Faculty editor-in-chief) include, in order of the frequency they are cited by the Supreme Court of Canada: the \"McGill Law Journal/Revue de droit de McGill\", the \"Queen's Law Journal\", the \"Alberta Law Review\", \"University of Toronto Faculty of Law Review\", the \"University of Ottawa Law Review\", and the \"University of British Columbia Law Review\". Membership requires demanding time commitments, and many editors move on to top clerkships, top articling or first year associate positions both inside and outside Canada, or eventually join the legal professoriate in Canada. The country also has several specialized publications run entirely by students.\n\nOutside North America, student-run law reviews are the exception rather than the norm. In Continental Europe law reviews are almost uniformly edited by academics. However, a small number of student-edited law reviews have recently sprung into existence in Germany (\"Ad Legendum\", \"Bucerius Law Journal\", \"Freilaw Freiburg Law Students Journal\", \"Goettingen Journal of International Law\", \"Hanse Law Review\", Heidelberg Law Review, \"Marburg Law Review\"), the Netherlands (\"Groningen Journal of International Law\") and the Czech Republic (\"Common Law Review\"). Two student-run publications have also been established in Italy: \"Bocconi Legal Papers\", adopting the format of a working paper series, as a way to complement – rather than compete with – peer-reviewed publications and offer scholars an additional round of feedback; \"University of Bologna Law Review\", a double-blind peer reviewed law journal, run by University of Bologna, School of Law students, which follows The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation.\n\nIn Belgium, the oldest and most prominent student-edited law review is \"Jura Falconis\". It was founded by a group of students from the Law Faculty of the \"Katholieke Universiteit Leuven\" who, in 1964, conceived the idea of producing their own law journal grafted on the famous American law reviews. Since then, \"Jura Falconis\" has grown into a very solid and most unusual value in the Belgian legal literature.\n\nThe leading law reviews in France are those of Dalloz and LexisNexis.\n\nWithin the United Kingdom, as in much of the Commonwealth outside North America (a notable exception being Australia), all of the leading law reviews are edited and run by academics. The leading law reviews in the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth more generally are the \"Law Quarterly Review\" (first published 1885), the \"Modern Law Review\" (first published 1937), the \"Cambridge Law Journal\" (first published 1973), The \"Oxford Journal of Legal Studies\" (first published 1981) and Legal Studies (first published 1981).\n\nThe \"Bracton Law Journal\" (now \"Exeter Law Review\") was the first student-run law review when it began publishing in 1965. Since then, the \"Birkbeck Law Review\", \"Bristol Law Review\", \"Cambridge International Law Journal\", \"Cambridge Student Law Review\", \"Dundee Student Law Review\", \"Durham Law Review\", \"Edinburgh Student Law Review\", \"Warwick Student Law Review\", \"Southampton Student Law Review\", \"Strathclyde Law Review\", the \"UCL Human Rights Review\" and the \"Student Journal of Law\" have also emerged.\n\nThe \"Trento Student Law Review\" is a student-run law review based in Trento, Italy. Established in 2017, it published its first issue, titled \"Number Zero\", in January 2018.\n\n\"Bocconi Legal Papers\" is a student-edited law journal in Italy. It is a project sponsored by Bocconi School of Law and is published by a group of students belonging to the same institution, under the supervision of several faculty advisors.\n\nThe \"University of Bologna Law Review\" is a student-run law journal published by the Department of Legal Studies of the University of Bologna, and officially sponsored by Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP and the International Chamber of Commerce - Italy. Its editorial board is composed of more than 150 members, including students, scholars, and professionals from all over the world.\n\nThe main professionally edited law reviews in Ireland include the following:\n\nThe leading student law reviews are the \"Dublin City University Law Review\", the \"Trinity College Law Review\", the \"UCD Law Review\", the \"Irish Student Law Review\" and the \"Cork Online Law Review\".\n\nIn Iceland, \"Úlfljótur Law Review\", has been in publication since 1947. In 2007 it celebrated its 60th anniversary. Since its creation in 1947 it has been edited and run by students at the Department of Law, University of Iceland. \"Úlfljótur Law Review\" is the most senior of all academic journals still in publication at the university and held in great respect by Icelandic jurists and legal scholars.\n\nIn Finland, \"Helsinki Law Review\", edited by students at the University of Helsinki, has been active since 2007. Earlier, the University of Turku published \"Turku Law Journal\" from 1999 to 2003.\n\nSweden's first law review is \"Juridisk Publikation\". The first number of \"Juridisk Publikation\" was published in April 2009. It originated as a review by students from Stockholm University. It is now delivered to Swedish law students from all universities, as well as to most legal libraries in the country. \"Juridisk Publikation\" is edited by top students from the law schools in Lund, Stockholm Uppsala and Goteborg. The publication is anonymously peer reviewed by a board of leading Swedish legal practitioners and academics.\n\nIn Norway, the first student edited law review \"Jussens Venner\" was founded in 1952 by students Carsten Smith and Torkel Opsahl (both of whom later became distinguished academics). Occasionally it features peer-reviewed articles, but its editors are composed of one student from the Faculty of Law at the University of Oslo and one student from the Faculty of Law at the University of Bergen. Its articles are mainly related to the curriculum at these universities.\n\nIn spite of some few exceptions, in Argentina almost all law reviews are run by publishing houses or law professors. In both cases, the involvement of students in the day to day creation of these reviews is fully narrowed. Among these few exceptions, it should be mentioned the case of \"Revista Lecciones y Ensayos\", a law review ran by students of the School of Law of the University of Buenos Aires.\n\nIn Australia, the leading student-edited peer-reviewed academic law reviews are the \"Melbourne University Law Review\", \"Sydney Law Review\", \"Federal Law Review\", \"Monash University Law Review\" and \"UNSW Law Journal\".\n\nThe \"Melbourne University Law Review\" regularly outperforms \"Sydney Law Review\" on impact, citation in journal and cases and combined rankings. These publications are among the most-cited law reviews by the High Court of Australia and among the most cited non-US reviews by US journals.\n\nThe top international law journal in Australia is the \"Melbourne Journal of International Law\", also a student-edited peer-reviewed academic law review. \"The Melbourne Journal of International Law\" is also considered to be more influential and prestigious than most generalist law reviews in Australia.\n\nIn Brazil, law reviews are usually run by academics as well, but there are efforts by students to change this; for example: \"University of Brasilia Law Students Review\" (re-established in 2007), the \"Review of the Academic Center Afonso Pena\" from the Federal University of Minas Gerais (published since 1996), and the \"Alethes Periodic\" from Federal University of Juiz de Fora. However, academics and official rankings usually refuse to evaluate student law reviews as \"equals\". To pursue academic recognition by the Brazilian Ministry of Education, review bodies must include post-graduated and ranked academics, which prevents student law reviews to even be recognized or compared to other similar legal periodicals.\n\nIn China, there are law reviews run by academics, as well as law reviews run by students.\n\nThe \"China Law Journal\" is an attempt to create a legal publication, that is produced from all groups related to law, including lawyers, academics, students, members of the judiciary, procurators and anyone else in related fields with an interest in China.\n\nAmong academic law journals in India, the \"Journal of Indian Law Institute\" and the \"Delhi Law Review\" published by the Faculty of Law, University of Delhi since 1972 are most prominent and respected among Indian legal scholars and academicians. National Law Schools/Universities are now leading the law review publication field, with notable reviews being the \"NALSAR Student Law Review\" and the \"National Law School of India Review\" and lawbright, eJournal.\n\nThe \"Mexican Law Review\", the law review of the National Autonomous University of Mexico, Mexico's preeminent university, is edited by professors and is therefore a closer cousin to peer-reviewed social science journals than to typical student-run law journals.\n\nOnline legal research providers such as Westlaw and LexisNexis give users access to the complete text of most law reviews published beginning from the late 1980s. Another such service, Heinonline, provides actual scans of the pages of law reviews going back to the 1850s.\n\nMembership on the law review staff is highly sought after by some law students, as it often has a significant impact on their subsequent careers as attorneys. Many U.S. federal judges and partners at the most prestigious law firms were members or editors of their school's law review. There are a number of reasons why journal membership is desired by some students:\nAt schools with more than one law review, membership on the main or flagship journal is normally considered more prestigious than membership on a specialty law journal. This is not the case at all schools, however. At many schools, the more prestigious journal is the specialty journal; a low-ranked general journal will rarely attract as much attention as a category-leading specialized journal. Often the best indicator is the age of the journal; a newer journal will rarely have the same clout with employers that the older journal has, even when the older journal is specialized. In any case, membership on any such journal is a valuable credential when searching out employment after law school.\n\nThe paths to membership vary from law school to law school, and also from journal to journal, but generally contain a few of the same basic elements. Most law reviews select members after their first year of studies either through a writing competition (often referred to as \"writing on\" to the law review), their first-year grades (referred to as \"grading on\" to the law review) or some combination thereof. Most Canadian law reviews, however, do not take grades into considerations and cannot be submitted with the application. A number of schools will also grant membership to students who independently submit a publishable article. The write-on competition usually requires applicants to compose a written analysis of a specific legal topic, often a recent Supreme Court decision. The written submissions are often of a set length, and applicants are sometimes provided with some or all of the background research. Submissions normally are graded blindly, with submissions identified only by a number which the graders will not be able to connect to a particular applicant. A student who has been selected for law review membership is said to have \"made the law review.\"\n\nSecondary journals vary widely in their membership process. For example, at Yale Law School, the only one of its nine journals that has a competitive membership process is the flagship \"Yale Law Journal\" – all others are open to any Yale Law student who wishes to join. By contrast, other secondary journals may have their own separate membership competition, or may hold a joint competition with the main law review.\n\nA law review's membership is normally divided into staff members and editors. On most law reviews, all 2Ls (second-year students) are staff members while some or all 3Ls (third-year students) serve as editors. 3Ls also typically fill the senior editorial staff positions, including senior articles editor, senior note & comment editor, senior managing editor, and, the most prestigious of all, editor-in-chief of the law review. (Upon graduation, the editor-in-chief of the law review can often expect to be highly recruited by the most prestigious law firms.) As members, students are normally expected to:\nThe editorial staff is normally responsible for reviewing and selecting articles for publication, managing the editing process, and assisting members in writing their notes and comments. Depending on the law school, students may receive academic credit for their work on the law review, although some journals are entirely extracurricular.\n\nThe \"University of Pennsylvania Law Review\" is the oldest law review in the U.S., having published continuously since 1852. Also among the oldest and most storied law review publications are the \"Albany Law Review\", successor to the \"Albany Law School Journal\", which began in 1875 and was the nation's first student-edited law review; the \"Columbia Law Review\", successor to the \"Columbia Jurist\", beginning in 1885; the \"Harvard Law Review\", beginning in 1887; \"Yale Law Journal\", beginning in 1891; \"West Virginia Law Review\", beginning in 1894; and \"Dickinson Law Review\", beginning in 1897. The first law review originating outside the Northeast was the \"Michigan Law Review\", beginning in 1902; followed by the \"Northwestern University Law Review\", beginning in 1906; and the \"Kentucky Law Journal\", beginning in 1910. The \"California Law Review\", beginning in 1912, was the nation's first law review published west of Illinois.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4865559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4865559", "title": "League of Communists (Finland)", "text": "League of Communists (Finland)\n\nThe League of Communists or Communist League () is a Finnish Marxist-Leninist political organization. The League of Communists was founded in 14.9.2002 by the Communists who were expelled from the For Peace and Socialism - Communist Workers Party (KTP). The organization was at first known as, plainly, \"Communists\" (Kommunistit) but the name was changed to its current form during the registration process.\n\nThe dispute in the KTP arose as part of its Central Committee wished the party would join a new electoral alliance party (Forces for Change in Finland [MVS]) in which right-wing organizations were also participating. The majority led by chairman Hannu Harju did not approve of this and the Central Committee voted (18-9) against the initiative. The minority, including the Helsinki district organization, the main force behind the project, chose not to respect the decision, and it was expelled. The expelled Helsinki district later participated in the founding of the MVS. Some notable persons among the expelled were Heikki Männikkö (the party secretary), Reijo Katajaranta (the editor-in-chief of the KTP organ) and Pekka Tiainen (the 1994 presidential candidate). In 2005, the (former) Turku district organization of the KTP joined the League of Communists.\nBoth parties adhere to traditional orthodox Marxism-Leninism and support, for example, North Korea as an anti-imperialist bastion. The KTP has, however, chosen not to cooperate with their former comrades who they regard as revisionist traitors. The League of Communists has had to find their allies elsewhere. The MVS was no success and after the general elections of 2003 the league has collaborated with several organizations, like the Communist Party of Finland (SKP) on whose list the League of Communists candidates stood in the elections to European Parliament in 2004. The only elected local councillor of the league, Antti Siika-Aho, stood (in 2004) as a Left Alliance candidate.\n\nAs the new organization was set in motion, a newspaper, called \"Kansan Ääni\", was also founded. The bimonthly paper, the editor-in-chief of which is Reijo Katajaranta, looks very similar to KTP's \"Työkansan Sanomat\". \"Kansan Ääni\" is also published by two other organizations controlled by members of the League of Communists. These are the People's Front Against European Union (EUVKr) and Work Against War and Fascism (SFT), the latter of which was founded after World War II by former Communist resistance fighters.\n\nSince its beginning the League of Communists has been led by Kalevi Wahrman whose board includes only men. The organization acts like a political party although it is not officially registered as one, an option which, however, has not been excluded.\n\n"}
{"id": "33480683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33480683", "title": "List of World Heritage sites in Eastern Europe", "text": "List of World Heritage sites in Eastern Europe\n\nThe UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) has designated 77 World Heritage sites in nine countries (also called \"state parties\") of Eastern Europe; defined here to mean the former Eastern Bloc countries not including the Baltic Countries (which are in Northern Europe) or former Yugoslavia and Albania (which are in Southern Europe) or the parts of Germany that once comprised East Germany (which are included in Western Europe): Russia, Belarus, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Ukraine, Moldova, Romania and Bulgaria. Only the European part of Russia is included here; the Asian part is included in Central Asia. Although they have territory in Eastern Europe, the uniquely positioned Caucasian countries of Armenia, Georgia, and Azerbaijan are not included here but in Western Asia, and Kazakhstan is included in Central Asia.\n\nRussia is home to the most inscribed sites with 17 sites, two of which are transborder properties. Seven sites are shared between several countries with some of them located partially in Northern or Western Europe: the Curonian Spit (Lithuania and Russia), Caves of Aggtelek Karst and Slovak Karst (Slovakia and Hungary), Primeval Beech Forests of the Carpathians and Other Regions of Europe (Germany, Slovakia, Ukraine, Albania, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Italy, Romania, Slovenia, and Spain), Belovezhskaya Pushcha / Białowieża Forest (Poland and Belarus), Fertö / Neusiedlersee Cultural Landscape (Austria and Hungary), Muskauer Park / Park Mużakowski (Germany and Poland) and the Struve Geodetic Arc (ten countries in Northern and Eastern Europe). Moldova has only part of the Struve Geodetic Arc transborder site. The first sites from the region were inscribed in 1978, when Kraków's Historic Centre and the Wieliczka Salt Mine, both in Poland were chosen during the list's conception. Each year, UNESCO's World Heritage Committee may inscribe new sites on the list, or delist sites that no longer meet the criteria. Selection is based on ten criteria: six for cultural heritage (i–vi) and four for natural heritage (vii–x). Some sites, designated \"mixed sites,\" represent both cultural and natural heritage. In Eastern Europe, there are 69 cultural, 8 natural, and no mixed sites.\n\nThe World Heritage Committee may also specify that a site is endangered, citing \"conditions which threaten the very characteristics for which a property was inscribed on the World Heritage List.\" None of the sites in Eastern Europe is currently listed as endangered; two sites, Wieliczka Salt Mine and the Srebarna Nature Reserve, have formerly been listed as endangered but lost this status subsequently; possible danger listing has been considered by UNESCO in a number of cases.\n\nThe table is sortable by column by clicking on the at the top of the appropriate column; alphanumerically for the Site, Area, and Year columns; by state party for the Location column; and by criteria type for the Criteria column. Transborder sites sort at the bottom.\n\n"}
{"id": "284325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284325", "title": "Madeleine L'Engle", "text": "Madeleine L'Engle\n\nMadeleine L'Engle Camp (; November 29, 1918 – September 6, 2007) was an American writer of young adult fiction, including \"A Wrinkle in Time\" and its sequels: \"A Wind in the Door\", \"A Swiftly Tilting Planet\", \"Many Waters\", and \"An Acceptable Time\". Her works reflect both her Christian faith and her strong interest in science.\n\nMadeleine L'Engle Camp was born in New York City on 29 November 1918, and named after her great-grandmother, Madeleine Margaret L'Engle, otherwise known as Mado. Her maternal grandfather was Florida banker Bion Barnett, co-founder of Barnett Bank in Jacksonville, Florida. Her mother, a pianist, was also named Madeleine/Madeleine Hall Barnett. Her father, Charles Wadsworth Camp, was a writer, critic, and foreign correspondent who, according to his daughter, suffered lung damage from mustard gas during World War I.\n\nL'Engle wrote her first story at age five and began keeping a journal at age eight. These early literary attempts did not translate into academic success at the New York City private school where she was enrolled. A shy, clumsy child, she was branded as stupid by some of her teachers. Unable to please them, she retreated into her own world of books and writing. Her parents often disagreed about how to raise her, and as a result she attended a number of boarding schools and had many governesses. The Camps traveled frequently. At one point, the family moved to a château near Chamonix in the French Alps, in what Madeleine described as the hope that the cleaner air would be easier on her father's lungs. Madeleine was sent to a boarding school in Switzerland. However, in 1933, L'Engle's grandmother fell ill, and they moved near Jacksonville, Florida to be close to her. L'Engle attended another boarding school, Ashley Hall, in Charleston, South Carolina. When her father died in October 1936, Madeleine arrived home too late to say goodbye.\n\nL'Engle attended Smith College from 1937 to 1941. After graduating \"cum laude\" from Smith, she moved to an apartment in New York City. L'Engle published her novels \"The Small Rain\" and \"Ilsa\" prior to meeting her husband in 1942. She met actor Hugh Franklin when she appeared in the play \"The Cherry Orchard\" by Anton Chekhov. L'Engle married Franklin on January 26, 1946. Later she wrote of their meeting and marriage, \"We met in \"The Cherry Orchard\" and were married in \"The Joyous Season\".\" The couple's first daughter, Josephine, was born in 1947.\n\nThe family moved to a 200-year-old farmhouse called Crosswicks in Goshen, Connecticut in 1952. To replace Franklin's lost acting income, they purchased and operated a small general store, while L'Engle continued with her writing. Their son Bion was born that same year. Four years later, seven-year-old Maria, the daughter of family friends who had died, came to live with the Franklins, and they adopted her shortly thereafter. During this period, L'Engle also served as choir director of the local Congregational Church.\n\nL'Engle determined to give up writing on her 40th birthday (November 1958) when she received yet another rejection notice. \"With all the hours I spent writing, I was still not pulling my own weight financially.\" Soon she discovered both that she could not give it up and that she had continued to work on fiction subconsciously.\n\nThe family returned to New York City in 1959 so that Hugh could resume his acting career. The move was immediately preceded by a ten-week cross-country camping trip, during which L'Engle first had the idea for her most famous novel, \"A Wrinkle in Time\", which she completed by 1960. It was rejected more than thirty times before she handed it to John C. Farrar; it was finally published by Farrar, Straus & Giroux in 1962.\n\nIn 1960 the Franklins moved to an apartment (sold by the estate for $4 million in 2008), in the Cleburne Building on West End Avenue. From 1960 to 1966 (and again in 1986, 1989 and 1990), L'Engle taught at St. Hilda's & St. Hugh's School in New York. In 1965 she became a volunteer librarian at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, also in New York. She later served for many years as writer-in-residence at the Cathedral, generally spending her winters in New York and her summers at Crosswicks.\n\nDuring the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s, L'Engle wrote dozens of books for children and adults. Four of the books for adults formed the \"Crosswicks Journals\" series of autobiographical memoirs. Of these, \"The Summer of the Great-grandmother\" (1974) discusses L'Engle's personal experience caring for her aged mother, and \"Two-Part Invention\" (1988) is a memoir of her marriage, completed after her husband's death from cancer on September 26, 1986.\n\nL'Engle was seriously injured in an automobile accident in 1991 but recovered well enough to visit Antarctica in 1992. Her son, Bion Franklin, died on December 17, 1999, from the effects of extended alcoholism. He was forty-seven years old.\n\nIn her final years, L'Engle became unable to teach or travel due to reduced mobility from osteoporosis, especially after suffering a cerebral hemorrhage in 2002. She also abandoned her former schedule of speaking engagements and seminars. A few compilations of older work, some of it previously unpublished, appeared after 2001.\n\nL'Engle died of natural causes at Rose Haven, a nursing facility close to her home in Litchfield, Connecticut, on September 6, 2007, according to a statement by her publicist the following day.\nShe is interred in the Cathedral Church of Saint John the Divine in Manhattan.\n\nIn 2018, her granddaughters published \"Becoming Madeleine: A Biography of the Author of A Wrinkle in Time by Her Granddaughters\".\n\nL'Engle's \"A Wrinkle in Time\" was adapted to a film twice by Disney. A television film, directed by John Kent Harrison, premiered on May 10, 2004. When asked in an interview with \"Newsweek\" if the film \"met her expectations\", L'Engle said, \"I have glimpsed it. . . . I expected it to be bad, and it is.\" A theatrical film, directed by Ava DuVernay, premiered March 9, 2018.\n\nL'Engle was an Episcopalian and believed in universal salvation, writing that \"All will be redeemed in God's fullness of time, all, not just the small portion of the population who have been given the grace to know and accept Christ. All the strayed and stolen sheep. All the little lost ones.\" As a result of her promotion of Christian universalism, many Christian bookstores refused to carry her books, which were also frequently banned from Christian schools and libraries. At the same time, some of her most secular critics attacked her work for being too religious.\n\nHer views on divine punishment were similar to those of George MacDonald, who also had a large influence on her fictional work. She said \"I cannot believe that God wants punishment to go on interminably any more than does a loving parent. The entire purpose of loving punishment is to teach, and it lasts only as long as is needed for the lesson. And the lesson is always love.\"\n\nIn 1982, L'Engle reflected on how suffering had taught her. She told how suffering a \"lonely solitude\" as a child taught her about the \"world of the imagination\" that enabled her to write for children. Later she suffered a \"decade of failure\" after her first books were published. It was a \"bitter\" experience, yet she wrote that she had \"learned a lot of valuable lessons\" that enabled her to persevere as a writer.\n\nSoon after winning the Newbery Medal for her 1962 \"junior novel\" \"A Wrinkle in Time\", L'Engle discussed children's books in \"The New York Times Book Review\". The writer of a good children's book, she observed, may need to return to the \"intuitive understanding of his own childhood\", being \"childlike\" although not \"childish\". She claimed, \"It's often possible to make demands of a child that couldn't be made of an adult... a child will often understand scientific concepts that would baffle an adult. This is because he can understand with a leap of the imagination that [which] is denied the grown-up who has acquired the little knowledge that is a dangerous thing.\" Of philosophy, etc., as well as science, \"the child will come to it with an open mind, whereas many adults come closed to an open book. This is one reason so many writers turn to fantasy (which children claim as their own) when they have something important and difficult to say.\"\n\nIn addition to the numerous awards, medals, and prizes won by individual books L'Engle wrote, she personally received many honors over the years. These included being named an Associate Dame of Justice in the Venerable Order of Saint John (1972); the USM Medallion from The University of Southern Mississippi (1978); the Smith College Medal \"for service to community or college which exemplifies the purposes of liberal arts education\" (1981); the Sophia Award for distinction in her field (1984); the Regina Medal (1985); the ALAN Award for outstanding contribution to adolescent literature, presented by the National Council of Teachers of English (1986); and the Kerlan Award (1990).\n\nIn 1985 she was a guest speaker at the Library of Congress, giving a speech entitled \"Dare to be Creative!\" That same year she began a two-year term as president of the Authors Guild. In addition she received over a dozen honorary degrees from as many colleges and universities, such as Haverford College. Many of these name her as a Doctor of Humane Letters, but she was also made a Doctor of Literature and a Doctor of Sacred Theology, the latter at Berkeley Divinity School in 1984. In 1995 she was writer-in-residence for \"Victoria Magazine\". In 1997 she was recognized for Lifetime Achievement from the World Fantasy Awards.\n\nL'Engle received the annual Margaret A. Edwards Award from the American Library Association in 1998. The Edwards Award recognizes one writer and a particular body of work for a \"significant and lasting contribution to young adult literature\". Four books by L'Engle were cited: \"Meet the Austins\", \"A Wrinkle In Time\", \"A Swiftly Tilting Planet\", and \"A Ring of Endless Light\" (published 1960 to 1980). In 2004 she received the National Humanities Medal but could not attend the ceremony due to poor health.\n\nL'Engle was inducted into the New York Writers Hall of Fame in 2011.\n\nIn a 2012 survey of \"School Library Journal\" readers, \"A Wrinkle in Time\" was voted the number two children's novel behind \"Charlotte's Web\".\n\nIn 2013, a crater on Mercury was named after L'Engle.\n\nSince 1976, Wheaton College in Illinois has maintained a special collection of L'Engle's papers, and a variety of other materials, dating back to 1919. The Madeleine L'Engle Collection includes manuscripts for the majority of her published and unpublished works, as well as interviews, photographs, audio and video presentations, and an extensive array of correspondence with both adults and children, including artwork sent to her by children.\n\nL'Engle's best-known works are divided between the \"Chronos\" and \"Kairos\" frameworks. The former is the framework in which the stories of the Austin family take place and is presented in a primarily realistic setting, though occasionally with elements that might be regarded as science fiction. The latter is the framework in which the stories of the Murry and O'Keefe families take place and is presented sometimes in a realistic setting and sometimes in a more fantastic or magical milieu. Generally speaking, the more realistic Kairos material is found in the O'Keefe stories, which deal with the second-generation characters. However, the Murry-O'Keefe and Austin families should not be regarded as living in separate worlds, because several characters cross over between them, and historical events are also shared.\n\nIn addition to novels and poetry, L'Engle wrote many nonfiction works, including the autobiographical \"Crosswicks Journals\" and other explorations of the subjects of faith and art. For L'Engle, who wrote repeatedly about \"story as truth\", the distinction between fiction and memoir was sometimes blurred. Real events from her life and family history made their way into some of her novels, while fictional elements, such as assumed names for people and places, can be found in her published journals.\n\nA theme, often implied and occasionally explicit, in L'Engle's works is that the phenomena that people call religion, science, and magic are simply different aspects of a single seamless reality.\n\nMost of L'Engle's novels from \"A Wrinkle in Time\" onward are centered on a cast of recurring characters, who sometimes reappear decades older than when they were first introduced. The \"Kairos\" books are about the Murry and O'Keefe families, with Meg Murry and Calvin O'Keefe marrying and producing the next generation's protagonist, Polly O'Keefe. L'Engle wrote about both generations concurrently, with Polly (originally called Poly) first appearing in 1965, well before the second book about her parents as teenagers (\"A Wind in the Door\", 1973). The \"Chronos\" books center on Vicky Austin and her siblings. Although Vicky's appearances all occur during her childhood and teenage years, her sister Suzy also appears as an adult in \"A Severed Wasp\", with a husband and teenage children. In addition, two of L'Engle's early protagonists, Katherine Forrester and Camilla Dickinson, reappear as elderly women in later novels. Rounding out the cast are several characters \"who cross and connect\": Canon Tallis, Adam Eddington, and Zachary Gray, who each appear in both the Kairos and Chronos books.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Note: some ISBNs given are for later paperback editions, since no such numbering existed when L'Engle's earlier titles were published in hardcover.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1127639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1127639", "title": "Mise en abyme", "text": "Mise en abyme\n\nIn Western art history, Mise en abyme (; also mise en abîme) is a formal technique of placing a copy of an image within itself, often in a way that suggests an infinitely recurring sequence. In film theory and literary theory, it refers to the technique of inserting a story within a story. The term is derived from heraldry and literally means \"placed into abyss\". It was first appropriated for modern criticism by the French author André Gide.\n\nA common sense of the phrase is the visual experience of standing between two mirrors, seeing as a result an infinite reproduction of one's image. Another is the Droste effect, in which a picture appears within itself, in a place where a similar picture would realistically be expected to appear. That is named after the 1904 Droste cocoa package, which depicts a woman holding a tray bearing a Droste cocoa package, which bears a smaller version of her image.\n\nIn the terminology of heraldry, the \"abyme\" is the center of a coat of arms. The term \"mise en abyme\" then meant put in the center. It described a coat of arms that appears as a smaller shield in the center of a larger one (see Droste effect).\n\nA complex example of \"mise en abyme\" is seen in the coat of arms of the United Kingdom for the period 1816–1837, as used by King George III. The crown of Charlemagne is placed \"en abyme\" within the escutcheon of Hanover, which in turn is \"en abyme\" within the arms of England, Scotland, and Ireland.\n\nAnother example is the two-headed eagle in the modern coat of arms of Russia, which holds a sceptre topped by a similar eagle holding a similar sceptre.\n\nWhile art historians working on the early-modern period adopted this phrase and interpreted it as showing artistic \"self awareness\", medievalists tended not to use it. Many examples, however, can be found in the pre-modern era, as in a mosaic from the Hagia Sophia dated to the year 944. To the left, Justinian I offers the Virgin Mary the Hagia Sophia, which contains the mosaic itself. To the right, Constantine I offers the city of Constantinople (now known as Istanbul), which itself contains the Hagia Sophia.\n\nMore medieval examples can be found in the collection of articles \"Medieval mise-en-abyme: the object depicted within itself\", in which Stuart Whatling conjectures that the self-references sometimes are used to strengthen the symbolism of gift-giving by documenting the act of giving on the object itself. An example of this self-referential gift-giving appears in the Stefaneschi Triptych in the Vatican Museum, which features Cardinal Giacomo Gaetani Stefaneschi as the giver of the altarpiece.\n\nIn Western art history, \"mise en abyme\" is a formal technique in which an image contains a smaller copy of itself, in a sequence appearing to recur infinitely; \"recursive\" is another term for this. The modern meaning of the phrase originates with the author André Gide who used it to describe self-reflexive embeddings in various art forms and to describe what he sought in his own work. As examples, Gide cites both paintings such as \"Las Meninas\" by Diego Velázquez and literary forms such as William Shakespeare's use of the \"play within a play\" device in \"Hamlet\", where a theatrical company presents a performance for the characters that illuminates a thematic aspect of the play itself. This use of the phrase \"mise en abyme\" was picked up by scholars and popularized in the 1977 book \"Le récit spéculaire. Essai sur la mise en abyme\" by Lucien Dällenbach.\n\n\"Mise en abyme\" occurs within a text when there is a reduplication of images or concepts referring to the textual whole. \"Mise en abyme\" is a play of signifiers within a text, of sub-texts mirroring each other. This mirroring can attain a level where meaning may become unstable and, in this respect, may be seen as part of the process of deconstruction. The film-within-a-film, where a film contains a plot about the making of a movie, is an example of \"mise en abyme\". The film being made within the film refers, through its \"mise en scène\", to the real film being made. The spectator sees film equipment, stars getting ready for the take, crew sorting out the various directorial needs. The narrative of the film within the film may directly reflect the one in the real film. An example is \"La Nuit américaine\" (1973) by François Truffaut.\n\nIn film, the meaning of \"mise en abyme\" is similar to the artistic definition, but also includes the idea of a \"dream within a dream\". For example, a character awakens from a dream and later discovers that s/he is still dreaming. Activities similar to dreaming, such as unconsciousness and virtual reality, also are described as \"mise en abyme\". This is seen in the film \"eXistenZ\" where the two protagonists never truly know whether or not they are out of the game. It also becomes a prominent element of Charlie Kaufman's \"Synecdoche, New York\" (2008). A more recent instance can be found in the film \"Inception\" (2010). Classic filmic examples include the snow globe in \"Citizen Kane\" (1941) which provides a clue to the film's core mystery, and the discussion of Edgar Allan Poe's written works (particularly \"The Purloined Letter\") in the Jean-Luc Godard film \"Band of Outsiders\" (1964). \n\nIn literary criticism, \"mise en abyme\" is a type of frame story, in which the core narrative may be used to illuminate some aspect of the framing story. The term is used in deconstruction and deconstructive literary criticism as a paradigm of the intertextual nature of language, that is, of the way language never quite reaches the foundation of reality because it refers in a frame-within-a-frame way, to other language, which refers to other language, and so forth.\n\n"}
{"id": "36584064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36584064", "title": "Multimedia Studies", "text": "Multimedia Studies\n\nMultimedia Studies is an interdisciplinary field of academic discourse focused on the understanding of technologies and cultural dimensions of linking traditional media sources with ones based on new media to support social systems.\n\nMultimedia Studies as a discipline came out of the need for media studies to be made relevant to the new world of CD-ROMs and hypertext in the 1990s. Revolutionary books like Jakob Nielsen's 'Hypertext and Hypermedia' book lay the foundations for understanding multimedia alongside traditional cognitive science and interface design issues. Software like Authorware Attain, now owned by Adobe, made the design of multimedia systems accessible to those unskilled in programming and became major applications by the end of the 1990s\n\nThe Internet age that has been growing since the launch of Windows 98 has brought new challenges for the discipline including developing new models and rules for the World Wide Web. Areas such as usability have had to develop specific guidelines for Website design and traditional concepts like genre, narrative theory, and stereotypes have had to be updated to take account of Cyberculture. Cultural aspects of Multimedia Studies have been conceptualised by authors such as Lev Manovich, Arturo Escobar and Fred Forest.\n\nThe increase in Internet trolling and so-called Internet addiction has thrown up new problems. Concepts like emotional design and affective computing are driving Multimedia Studies research to consider ways of becoming more seductive and able to take account of the different needs of users.\n\nSome academics, such as David Gauntlett, have preferred the neologism, 'Media Studies 2.0' to Multimedia Studies, in order to give it the feel of other fields like Web 2.0 and Classroom 2.0. \nThe Media Studies 2.0 neologism has received strong criticism. Andy Medhurst at Sussex University for instance wrote of the Media Studies 2.0 neologism introduced by David Gauntlett, 'Isn't it odd that whenever someone purportedly identifies a new paradigm, they see themselves as already a leading practitioner of it?'\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15106618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15106618", "title": "Neolithic creolisation hypothesis", "text": "Neolithic creolisation hypothesis\n\nThe Neolithic creolisation hypothesis, first put forward by Marek Zvelebil in 1995, contributes to the Proto-Indo-European Urheimat issue and proposes a cultural melting pot in the Neolithic of Northern Europe of foreign Neolithic farmers and indigenous Mesolithic hunter-gatherer communities that resulted in the genesis of the Indo-European language family. \n\nThe hypothesis holds that the linguistic and cultural influence of the Neolithic farmers was far greater than the persistence of their foreign gene pool. According to Zvelebil, the linguistic influence of indigenous hunter-gatherers predominated, but other archeologists, such as Marek Nowak, favor a scenario compatible to Colin Renfrew's Anatolian hypothesis in attributing the leading linguistic role to the foreign farmers.\n\nA study of strontium isotope signatures among the Neolithic farmers in Southwestern Germany indicated that the first Linear Pottery culture farmers received their partners from a wide catchment, were patrilocal\nand intermarried with hunter-gatherer women along the agricultural frontier. The appearance of Mesolithic motifs on the first Funnel Beaker culture pottery and of other elements in the material culture has been adduced in support of such results. \n\nIt was theorized the intermarriage between the two communities resulted in the breakdown of the early farming Linear Pottery culture and the Lengyel culture social and ideological structure as well as a subsequent development of a new foraging-farming community, which was identified archaeologically as the Funnel Beaker culture. That caused the combination of cultural traditions of earlier foraging and farming generations to be accomplished in an act of cultural creolisation. In the Polish Plain, the pattern persisted during some 2500 years, between 4400 and 1800 BC or 2200 BC, until the last hunter-gatherer communities finally became part of the Globular Amphorae/Corded Ware cultural horizon. They led to a cognitive structure that was more familiar to the indigenous hunter-gatherer community but still retained certain earlier routine practices of both the ancestral Neolithic and Mesolithic traditions. The cultural variability of the Funnel Beaker culture horizon and the later Globular Amphorae and Corded Ware traditions was proposed to be caused, at least partially, by that process.\n\nA more anthropological perspective is proposed to confirm the concept of farmer communities being \"acculturated\" by neighboring foragers. Investigations revealed low paleaodemographic values of Linear Pottery farmers and Corded Ware culture populations with dominant agricultural occupations. The highest values correspond to Corded Ware culture populations, using a husbandry mode of production.\n\nFrederik Kortlandt's assessment takes into account the typological similarity of Proto-Indo-European to the Northwest Caucasian languages. Assuming that the similarity can be attributed to areal factors, Kortlandt thought of Indo-European as a branch of Uralo-Altaic that was transformed under the influence of a Caucasian-like substratum. Kortlandt had in mind areal factors that would be essentially in agreement with the Kurgan hypothesis and an origin in the eastern part of the Great European Plain.\n\nThat should be kept distinct from linguist Peter Schrijver's speculation on the reminiscent lexical and typological features of a family of languages featuring complex verbs, a structural type of which the Northwest Caucasian languages are the sole survivors in the region, which he links to the archeological Linear Pottery culture, the first farmers in Europe. Under the Anatolian hypothesis, they are supposed to have been Indo-European-speaking, but Schrijver's proposal, like Kortlandt's, is compatible with the Kurgan paradigm, as Schrijver suggests they spoke languages from a completely different family, which typologically resembled Hattic, Minoan and Northwest Caucasian. The family did not directly influence Proto-Indo-European in its steppe homeland, but it influenced individual branches in Central and Southeastern Europe (Germanic, Celtic, Italic and Greek) only during the Bronze and the Iron Ages.\n"}
{"id": "49515583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49515583", "title": "Network of Executive Women", "text": "Network of Executive Women\n\nThe Network of Executive Women (NEW) is a women's leadership organization serving the retail, consumer goods, financial services and technology industries. It represents more than 11,000 members from 850 companies, 100 corporate partners and 21 regions in the U.S. and Canada.\n\nNEW's mission is to advance all women and create a better workplace for everyone through research, advocacy, leadership development and organizational change.\n\nSarah Alter — named president and CEO of NEW in June 2017 — has wide-ranging experience in the retail, financial services and technology markets. As vice president of Discover Financial Services, she led the product strategy for all credit card features, benefits and services. As vice president for digital sales and marketing at Quill.com, Alter helped expand digital sales for office supply company Staples. As chief marketing officer for General Growth Properties, Alter developed and executed marketing strategies for 200 shopping mall properties and their top retailers. Alter has served on a number of non-profit boards and has been an organizer of Chicago's annual JDRF Gala, which raised millions of dollars for Type 1 diabetes. She is a graduate of Northwestern University and has a Harvard MBA.\n\nOther NEW leaders include Board Chair Lisa Walsh, CEO of Truco Enterprises, Immediate Past Board Chair Karen Stuckey of Walmart Inc., Vice Chair Monica Turner of Procter & Gamble, Treasurer Erby Foster of Foster Inclusion and Secretary Regenia Stein of Ingenuity Consulting. The Board's Executive Committee also includes Audit Chair Dagmar Boggs of 7-Eleven, Compensation Chair Karen Mooney, Regional Advisory Chair Elizabeth Marrion of Accenture, and Transformation Chair Vicki Felker of Nestlé Purina PetCare.\n\nNEW conducts independent research and partners with other organizations to produce insights to help companies achieve gender equality and inclusion. NEW released \"The Female Leadership Crisis: Why Women Are Leaving (and What We Can Do About It)\" in February 2018 with Mercer & Co and Accenture.\n\nThe Network of Executive Women has 21 regional groups in the United States and Canada that provide local events, outreach and services to the communities where NEW members and supporters live and work.\n\n\nNEW founders held organizational meetings in Atlanta, New York and elsewhere in 2000-2001, and the Network of Executive Women was incorporated April 1, 2001. Five thousand dollars in seed money was provided by The Minute Maid Company (then CEO Don Knauss was an early Champion; Ahold USA CEO Bill Grize was one of the first retail leaders to lend his support). NEW held a kick-off meeting at the FMI Midwinter Executive Conference, January 22, 2001, and NEW's first official meeting was held April 2, 2001 in New York City. On June 1, 2001, NEW held its second official meeting and elected its first Board and Officer slate.\n\n"}
{"id": "8723820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8723820", "title": "Neue Kirche, Berlin", "text": "Neue Kirche, Berlin\n\nThe Neue Kirche (; colloquially \"Deutscher Dom\", i.e., German Church), is located in Berlin on the Gendarmenmarkt across from French Church of Friedrichstadt (\"French Church\"). Its parish comprised the northern part of the then new quarter of Friedrichstadt, which until then belonged to the parish of the congregations of Jerusalem's Church. The Lutheran and Calvinist (in German Reformed Church) congregants used German as their native language, as opposed to the French-speaking Calvinist congregation owning the French Church of Friedrichstadt on the opposite side of Gendarmenmarkt. The congregants' native language combined with the domed tower earned the church its colloquial naming \"Deutscher Dom\". The church is not a cathedral in the actual sense of the word.\n\nIn 1701-1708 Giovanni Simonetti built the first church after a design of Martin Grünberg. It was the third church in Friedrichstadt, established in 1688, which was a town of princely domination, while the neighbouring old Berlin and Cölln were cities of town privileges. The Prince-Elector originally only provided for a Calvinist congregation, since they - the Hohenzollerns - themselves were Calvinists. But also more and more Lutherans moved in. Therefore, in 1708 the \"New Church\" became a Calvinist and Lutheran Simultaneum.\n\nThe site for the church was disentangled from the so-called \"Swiss Cemetery\", which had been provided for Huguenots, who had come to Berlin between 1698 and 1699 from their intermittent refuge in Switzerland. The original building had a pentagonal groundplan with semicircular apses. The interior was characterised by a typical Protestant combined altar and pulpit leaning against the eastern central pillar opposite to the entrance. \n\nIn 1780 Carl von Gontard designed and started the construction of a tower, easterly adjacent to the actual prayer hall. His design of the domed towers, a second one being added to the French Church, followed the Palladian tradition and received the shape of the Parisian Church of Sainte-Geneviève (now the Panthéon), then still under construction by Jacques-Germain Soufflot. The construction of the domed towers aimed at making the Gendarmenmarkt resemble the Piazza del Popolo in Rome. Still under construction the tower of the New Church collapsed. Thus Georg Christian Unger was commissioned to carry out Gontard's plan.\n\nChristian Bernhard Rode created the statues, representing characters from the Old and New Covenant, which are added to the tower. The dome was topped by a statue symbolising the \"victorious virtue\" (now a post-war replica). The gable relief depicts the Conversion of Sha'ul Paul of Tarsus. In 1817 the two congregations of the \"German Church\", like most Prussian Reformed and Lutheran congregations joined the common umbrella organisation named Evangelical Church in Prussia (under this name since 1821), with each congregation maintaining its former denomination or adopting the new united denomination.\n\nIn 1881 the dilapidated prayer hall was torn down and Hermann von der Hude and Julius Hennicke replaced it with a new one on a pentagonal groundplan, according to the neobaroque design of Johann Wilhelm Schwedler. Otto Lessing designed the six statues on the attic of the new prayer hall. On 17 December 1882 the new prayer hall was inaugurated.\n\nIn 1934 the congregations of the New Church had united with that of Jerusalem's Church and have become - after further mergers - today's Evangelical Congregation in the Friedrichstadt (as of 2001). For services it uses the French Church on the opposite side of Gendarmenmarkt and \"Luke's Church\" in Berlin-Kreuzberg.\n\nIn 1943 the New Church was almost completely destroyed in the bombing of Berlin in World War II and was subsequently rebuilt from 1977 to 1988. Meanwhile, the German government acquired the building and the site. The church building was updated, deconsecrated and reopened in 1996 as the Bundestag's museum on German parliamentary history (\"Milestones - Setbacks - Sidetracks, The Path to Parliamentary Democracy in Germany\").\nThe two congregations of the \"New Church\" maintained cemeteries with the two congregations of the neighbouring Jerusalem's Church (another simultaneum), three of which are comprised - with cemeteries of other congregations - in a compound of six cemeteries altogether, which are among the most important historical cemeteries of Berlin. They are located in Berlin-Kreuzberg south of Hallesches Tor (Berlin U-Bahn) ().\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27724306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27724306", "title": "Nonsense word", "text": "Nonsense word\n\nA nonsense word, unlike a sememe, may have no definition. Nonsense words can be classified depending on their orthographic and phonetic similarity with (meaningful) words. If it can be pronounced according to a language's phonotactics, it is a pseudoword. Nonsense words are used in literature for poetic or humorous effect. Proper names of real or fictional entities are sometimes nonsense words.\n\nA stunt word is a nonsense word used for a special effect, or to attract attention, as part of a performance. Such words are a feature of the work of Dr. Seuss (\"Sometimes I am quite certain there's a Jertain in the curtain\").\n\nThe ability to infer the (hypothetical) meaning of a nonsense word from context is used to test for brain damage.\n"}
{"id": "18745048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18745048", "title": "Ordinalia", "text": "Ordinalia\n\nThe Ordinalia are three medieval mystery plays dating to the late fourteenth century, written primarily in Middle Cornish, with stage directions in Latin. The three plays are Origo Mundi (The Origin of the World, also known as \"Ordinale de Origine Mundi\", 2,846 lines), Passio Christi (The Passion of Christ, also known as \"Passio Domini Nostri Jhesu Christi\", 3,242 lines) and Resurrexio Domini (The Resurrection of Our Lord also known as \"Ordinale de Ressurexione Domini\", 2,646 lines). The metres of these plays are various arrangements of seven- and four-syllabled lines. \"Ordinalia\" means \"prompt\" or \"service book\".\n\nThe first play, called \"Origo Mundi\", begins with the Creation of the World, the Fall of Man, and Cain and Abel, followed by the building of the Ark and the Flood; the story of the temptation of Abraham closes the first act. The second act gives us the history of Moses, and the third represents the story of David and of the building of Solomon's Temple, curiously ending with a description of the martyrdom of St Maximilla as a Christian by the bishop placed in charge of the temple by Solomon.\n\nAn offshoot of the \"Origo Mundi\" is the \"Creation of the World with Noah's Flood\" (\"Gwreans an Bys: the Creacon of the World\"), written in Cornish with English stage directions, copied by William Jordan in 1611.\n\nThe second play, \"Passio Domini\", represents the Temptation of Christ in the desert, and the events from the entry into Jerusalem to the Crucifixion, including the Passion. This goes on without interruption into the third play, \"Resurrectio Domini\", which gives an account of the Harrowing of Hell, the Resurrection, and the Ascension, with the Legend of St Veronica and Tiberius, the death of Pilate, the release of Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus from prison, The Three Marys. As in the \"Poem of the Passion\", the pseudo-Gospel of Nicodemus and other legendary sources are drawn upon.\n\nHowever, running through the whole and interwoven with the scriptural narrative comes the beautiful and curious Legend of the Rood (Legend of the Holy Cross). The legend, most of which is in the Ordinalia, is this:\n\nThere are three manuscripts of this trilogy in existence:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23194", "title": "Phonetics", "text": "Phonetics\n\nPhonetics (pronounced ) is a branch of linguistics that studies the sounds of human speech, or—in the case of sign languages—the equivalent aspects of sign. It is concerned with the physical properties of speech sounds or signs (phones): their physiological production, acoustic properties, auditory perception, and neurophysiological status. Phonology, on the other hand, is concerned with the abstract, grammatical characterization of systems of sounds or signs.\n\nIn the case of oral languages, phonetics has three basic areas of study:\n\n\nThe first known phonetic studies were carried out as early as the 6th century BCE by Sanskrit grammarians. The Hindu scholar Pāṇini is among the most well known of these early investigators, whose four part grammar, written around 350 BCE, is influential in modern linguistics and still represents \"the most complete generative grammar of any language yet written\". His grammar formed the basis of modern linguistics and described a number of important phonetic principles. Pāṇini provided an account of the phonetics of voicing, describing resonance as being produced either by tone, when vocal folds are closed, or noise, when vocal folds are open. The phonetic principles in the grammar are considered \"primitives\" in that they are the basis for his theoretical analysis rather than the objects of theoretical analysis themselves, and the principles can be inferred from his system of phonology.\n\nAdvancements in phonetics after Pāṇini and his contemporaries were limited until the modern era, save some limited investigations by Greek and Roman grammarians. In the millenia between Indic grammarians and modern phonetics the focus of phonetics shifted from the difference between spoken and written language, which was the driving force behind Pāṇini's account, and began to focus on the physical properties of speech alone. Sustained interest in phonetics began again around 1800 CE with the term \"phonetics\" being first used in the present sense in 1841. With new developments in medicine and the development of audio and visual recording devices, phonetic insights were able to use and review new and more detailed data. This early period of modern phonetics included the development of an influential phonetic alphabet based on articulatory positions by Alexander Melville Bell. Known as visible speech, it gained prominency as a tool in the oral education of deaf children.\n\nSpeech sounds are generally produced by the modification of an airstream exhaled from the lungs. The respiratory organs used to create and modify airflow are divided into three regions: the vocal tract (supralaryngeal), the larynx, and the subglottal system. The airstream can be either egressive (out of the vocal tract) or ingressive (into the vocal tract). In pulmonic sounds, the airstream is produced by the lungs in the subglottal system and passes through the larynx and vocal tract. Glottalic sounds use an airstream created by movements of the larynx without airflow from the lungs. Clicks or lingual ingressive sounds create an airstream using the tongue.\n\nArticulations take place in particular parts of the mouth. They are described by the part of the mouth that constricts airflow and by what part of the mouth that constriction occurs. In most languages constrictions are made with the lips and tongue. Constrictions made by the lips are called labials. The tongue can make constrictions with many different parts, broadly classified into coronal and dorsal places of articulation. Coronal articulations are made with either the tip or blade of the tongue, while dorsal articulations are made with the back of the tongue. These divisions are not sufficient for distinguishing and describing all speech sounds. For example, in English the sounds and are both voiceless coronal fricatives, but they are produced in different places of the mouth. Additionally, that difference in place can result in a difference of meaning like in \"sack\" and \"shack\". To account for this, articulations are further divided based upon the area of the mouth in which the constriction occurs.\n\nArticulations involving the lips can be made in three different ways: with both lips (bilabial), with one lip and the teeth (labiodental), and with the tongue and the upper lip (linguolabial). Depending on the definition used, some or all of these kinds of articulations may be categorized into the class of labial articulations. Ladefoged and Maddieson (1996) propose that linguolabial articulations be considered coronals rather than labials, but make clear this grouping, like all groupings of articulations, is equivocable and not cleanly divided. Linguolabials are included in this section as labials given their use of the lips as a place of articulation.\n\nBilabial consonants are made with both lips. In producing these sounds the lower lip moves farthest to meet the upper lip, which also moves down slightly, though in some cases the force from air moving through the aperature (opening between the lips) may cause the lips to separate faster than they can come together. Unlike most other articulations, both articulators are made from soft tissue, and so bilabial stops are more likely to be produced with incomplete closures than articulations involving hard surfaces like the teeth or palate. Bilabial stops are also unusual in that an articulator in the upper section of the vocal tract actively moves downwards, as the upper lip shows some active downward movement.\n\nLabiodental consonants are made by the lower lip rising to the upper teeth. Labiodental consonants are most often fricatives while labiodental nasals are also typologically common. There is debate as to whether true labiodental plosives occur in any natural language, though a number of languages are reported to have labiodental plosives including Zulu, Tonga, and Shubi. Labiodental affricates are reported in Tsonga which would require the stop portion of the affricate to be a labiodental stop, though Ladefoged and Maddieson (1996) raise the possibility that labiodental affricates involve a bilabial closure like \"pf\" in German. Unlike plosives and affricates, labiodental nasals are common across languages.\n\nLinguolabial consonants are made with the blade of the tongue approaching or contacting the upper lip. Like in bilabial articulations, the upper lip moves slightly towards the more active articulator. Articulations in this group do not have their own symbols in the International Phonetic Alphabet, rather, they are formed by combining an apical symbol with a diacritic implicitly placing them in the coronal category. They exist in a number of languages indigenous to Vanuatu such as Tangoa, though early descriptions referred to them as apical-labial consonants. The name \"linguolabial\" was suggested by Floyd Lounsbury given that they are produced with the blade rather than the tip of the tongue.\n\nCoronal consonants are made with the tip or blade of the tongue and, because of the agility of the front of the tongue, represent a variety not only in place but in the posture of the tongue. The coronal places of articulation represent the areas of the mouth the tongue contacts or makes a constriction, and include dental, alveolar, and post-alveolar locations. Tongue postures using the tip of the tongue can be apical if using the top of the tongue tip, laminal if made with the blade of the tongue, or sub-apical if the tongue tip is curled back and the bottom of the tongue is used. Coronals are unique as a group in that every manner of articulation is attested. Australian languages are well known for the large number of coronal contrasts exhibited within and across languages in the region.\n\nDental consonants are made with the tip or blade of the tongue and the upper teeth. They are divided into two groups based upon the part of the tongue used to produce them: apical dental consonants are produced with the tongue tip touching the teeth; interdental consonants are produced with the blade of the tongue as the tip of the tongue sticks out in front of the teeth. No language is known to use both contrastively though they may exist allophonically.\n\nAlveolar consonants are made with the tip or blade of the tongue at the alveolar ridge just behind the teeth and can similarly be apical or laminal. \n\nCrosslinguistically, dental consonants and alveolar consonants are frequently contrasted leading to a number of generalizations of crosslinguistic patterns. The different places of articulation tend to also be contrasted in the part of the tongue used to produce them: most languages with dental stops have laminal dentals, while languages with apical stops usually have apical stops. Languages rarely have two consonants in the same place with a contrast in laminality, though Taa (ǃXóõ) is a counterexample to this pattern. If a language has only one of a dental stop or an alveolar stop, it will usually be laminal if it is a dental stop, and the stop will usually be apical if it is an alveolar stop, though for example Temne and Bulgarian do not follow this pattern. If a language has both an apical and laminal stop, then the laminal stop is more likely to be affricated like in Isoko, though Dahalo show the opposite pattern with alveolar stops being more affricated.\n\nRetroflex consonants have a number of different definitions depending on whether the position of the tongue or the position on the roof of the mouth is given prominence, though in general they represent a group of articulations in which the tip of the tongue is curled upwards to some degree. In this way, retroflex articulations can occur in a number of different locations on the roof of the mouth including alveolar, post-alveolar, and palatal regions. If the underside of the tongue tip makes contact with the roof of the mouth, it is sub-apical though apical post-alveolar sounds are also described as retroflex. Typical examples of sub-apical retroflex stops are commonly found in Dravidian languages, and in some languages indigenous to the southwest United States the contrastive difference between dental and alveolar stops is a slight retroflexion of the alveolar stop. Acoustically, retroflexion tends to affect the higher formants.\n\nArticulations taking place just behind the alveolar ridge, known as post-alveolar consonants, have been referred to using a number of different terms. Apical post-alveolar consonants are often called retroflex, while laminal articulations are sometimes called palato-alveolar; in the Australianist literature, these laminal stops are often described as 'palatal' though they are produced further forward than the palate region typically described as palatal. Because of individual anatomical variation, the precise articulation of palato-alveolar stops (and coronals in general) can very widely within a speech community.\n\nDorsal consonants are those consonants made using the tongue body rather than the tip or blade.\n\nPalatal consonants are made using the tongue body against the hard palate on the roof of the mouth. They are frequently contrasted with velar or uvular consonants, though it is rare for a language to contrast all three simultaneously, with Jaqaru as a possible example of a three way contrast. \n\nVelar consonants are made using the tongue body against the velum. They are incredibly common crosslinguistically; almost all languages have a velar stop. Because both velars and vowels are made using the tongue body, they are highly affected by coarticulation with vowels and can be produced as far forward as the hard palate or as far back as the uvula. These variations are typically divided into front, central, and back velars in parallel with the vowel space. They can be hard to distinguish phonetically from palatal consonants, though are produced slightly behind the area of prototypical palatal consonants.\n\nUvular consonants are made by the tongue body contacting or approaching the uvula. They are rare, occurring in an estimated 19 percent of languages, and large regions of the Americas and Africa have no languages with uvular consonants. In languages with uvular consonants, stops are most frequent followed by continuants (including nasals).\n\nThe larynx, commonly known as the \"voice box\" is a cartilaginous structure in the trachea responsible for phonation. The vocal folds (chords) are held together so that they vibrate, or held apart so that they do not. The positions of the vocal folds are achieved by movement of the arytenoid cartilages. The intrinsic laryngeal muscles are responsible for moving the arytenoid cartilages as well as modulating the tension of the vocal folds. If the vocal folds are not close enough or not tense enough, they will vibrate sporadically (described as creaky or breathy voice depending on the degree) or not at all (voiceless sounds). Even if the vocal folds are in the correct position, there must be air flowing across them or they will not vibrate. The difference in pressure across the glottis required for voicing is estimated at 1 – 2 cm H0 (98.0665 – 196.133 pascals). The pressure differential can fall below levels required for phonation either because of an increase in pressure above the glottis (superglottal pressure) or a decrease in pressure below the glottis (subglottal pressure). The subglottal pressure is maintained by the respiratory muscles. Supraglottal pressure, with no constrictions or articulations, is about atmospheric pressure. However, because articulations (especially consonants) represent constrictions of the airflow, the pressure in the cavity behind those constrictions can increase resulting in a higher supraglottal pressure.\n\nThe lungs are the engine that drives nearly all speech production, and their importance in phonetics is due to their creation of pressure for pulmonic sounds. The most common kinds of sound across languages are pulmonic egress, where air is exhaled from the lungs. The opposite is possible, though no language is known to have pulmonic ingressive sounds as phonemes. Many languages such as Swedish use them for paralinguistic articulations such as affirmations in a number of genetically and geographically diverse languages. Both egressive and ingressive sounds rely on holding the vocal folds in a particular posture and using the lungs to draw air across the vocal folds so that they either vibrate (voiced) or do not vibrate (voiceless). Pulmonic articulations are restricted by the volume of air able to be exhaled in a given respiratory cycle, known as the vital capacity.\n\nThe lungs are used to maintain two kinds of pressure simultaneously in order to produce and modify phonation. In order to produce phonation at all, the lungs must maintain a pressure of 3–5 cm H0 higher than the pressure above the glottis. However small and fast adjustments are made to the subglottal pressure to modify speech for suprasegmental features like stress. A number of thoracic muscles are used to make these adjustments. Because the lungs and thorax stretch during inhalation, the elastic forces of the lungs alone are able to produce pressure differentials sufficient for phonation at lung volumes above 50 percent of vital capacity. Above 50 percent of vital capacity, the respiratory muscles are used to \"check\" the elastic forces of the thorax to maintain a stable pressure differential. Below that volume, they are used to increase the subglottal pressure by actively exhaling air.\n\nDuring speech the respiratory cycle is modified to accommodate both linguistic and biological needs. Exhalation, usually about 60 percent of the respiratory cycle at rest, is increased to about 90 percent of the respiratory cycle. Because metabolic needs are relatively stable, the total volume of air moved in most cases of speech remains about the same as quiet tidal breathing. Increases in speech intensity of 18 dB (a loud conversation) has relatively little impact on the volume of air moved. Because their respiritory systems are not as developed as adults, children tend to use a larger proportion of their vital capacity compared to adults, with more deep inhales.\n\nAn important factor in describing the production of most speech sounds is the state of the glottis—the space between the vocal folds. Muscles inside the larynx make adjustments to the vocal folds in order to produce and modify vibration patterns for different sounds. Two canonical examples are modal voiced, where the vocal folds vibrate, and voiceless, where they do not. Modal voiced and voiceless consonants are incredibly common across languages, and all languages use both phonation types to some degree. Consonants can be either voiced or voiceless, though some languages do not make distinctions between them for certain consonants. No language is known to have a phonemic voicing contrast for vowels, though there are languages, like Japanese, where vowels are produced as voiceless in certain contexts. Other positions of the glottis, such as breathy and creaky voice, are used in a number of languages, like Jalapa Mazatec, to contrast phonemes while in other languages, like English, they exist allophonically. Phonation types are modelled on a continuum of glottal states from completely open (voiceless) to completely closed (glottal stop). The optimal position for vibration, and the phonation type most used in speech, modal voice, exists in the middle of these two extremes. If the glottis is slightly wider, breathy voice occurs, while bringing the vocal folds closer together results in creaky voice.\n\nThere are a number of ways to determine if a segment is voiced or not, the simplest being to feel the larynx during speech and note when vibrations are felt. More precise measurements can be obtained through acoustic analysis of a spectrogram or spectral slice. In spectrographic analysis, voiced segments show a voicing bar, a region of high acoustic energy, in the low frequencies of voiced segments. In examining a spectral splice, the acoustic spectrum at a given point in time a model of the vowel pronounced reverses the filtering of the mouth producing the spectrum of the glottis. A computational model of the unfiltered glottal signal is then fitted to the inverse filtered acoustic signal to determine the characteristics of the glottis. Visual analysis is also available using specialized medical equipment such as ultrasound and endoscopy.\nFor the vocal folds to vibrate, they must be in the proper position and there must be air flowing through the glottis. The normal phonation pattern used in typical speach is modal voice, where the vocal folds are held close together with moderate tension. The vocal folds vibrate as a single unit periodically and efficiently with a full glottal closure and no aspiration. If they are pulled farther apart, they do not vibrate and so produce voiceless phones. If they are held firmly together they produce a glottal stop.\n\nIf the vocal folds are held slightly further apart than in modal voicing, they produce phonation types like breathy voice (or murmur) and whispery voice. The tension across the vocal ligaments (vocal cords) is less than in modal voicing allowing for air to flow more freely. Both breathy voice and whispery voice exist on a continuum loosely characterized as going from the more periodic waveform of breathy voice to the more noisy waveform of whispery voice. Acoustically, both tend to dampen the first formant with whispery voice being more extreme deviations. \n\nHolding the vocal folds more tightly together results in creaky voice. The tension in across the vocal folds is less than in modal voice, but they are held tightly together resulting in only the ligaments of the vocal folds vibrating. The pulses are highly irregular, with low pitch and frequency amplitude.\nWhen producing speech, the articulators move through and contact particular locations in space resulting in changes to the acoustic signal. Some models of speech production take this as the basis for modeling articulation in a coordinate system which may be internal to the body (intrinsic) or external (extrinsic). Intrinsic coordinate systems model the movement of articulators as positions and angles of joints in the body. Intrinsic coordinate models of the jaw often use two to three degrees of freedom representing translation and rotation. These face issues with modeling the tongue which, unlike joints of the jaw and arms, is a muscular hydrostat like an elephant trunk that lacks joints. Because of the different physiological structures, movement paths of the jaw are relatively straight lines during speech and mastication, while movements of the tongue follow curves.\n\nStraight line movements have been used to argue articulations as planned in extrinsic rather than intrinsic space, though extrinsic coordinate systems also include acoustic coordinate spaces, not just physical coordinate spaces. Models which assume movements are planned in extrinsic space run into an inverse problem of explaining the muscle and joint locations which produce the observed path or acoustic signal. The arm, for example, has seven degrees of freedom and 22 muscles, so multiple different joint and muscle configurations can lead to the same final position. For models of planning in extrinsic acoustic space, the same one-to-many mapping problem applies as well, with no unique mapping from physical or acoustic targets to the muscle movements required to achieve them. Concerns about the inverse problem may be exagerated, however, as speech is a highly learned skill using neurological structures which evolved for the purpose.\nThe equilibrium-point model proposes a resolution to the inverse problem by arguing that movement targets be represented as the position of the musle pairs acting on a joint. Importantly, muscles are modeled as springs, and the target is the equilibrium point for the modeled spring-mass system. By using springs, the equilibrium point model is able to easily account for compensation and response when movements are disrupted. They are considered a coordinate model because they assume that these muscle positions are represented as points in space, equilibrium points, where the spring-like action of the muscles converges.\n\nGestural approaches to speech production propose that articulations are represented as movement patterns rather than particular coordinates to hit. The minimal unit is a gesture which represents a group of \"functionally equivalent articulatory movement patterns that are actively controlled with reference to a given speech-relevant goal (e.g., a bilabial closure).\" These groups represent coordinative structures or \"synergies\" which view movements not as individual muscle movements but as task-dependent groupings of muscles which work together as a single unit. This reduces the degrees of freedom in articulation planning, a problem especially in intrinsic coordinate models, which allows for any movement that achieves the speech goal, rather than encoding the particular movements in the abstract representation. Coarticulation is well described by gestural models as the articulations at faster speech rates can be explained as composites of the independent gestures at slower speech rates.\n\nPhonetics as a research discipline has three main branches:\n\nPhonetic insight is used in a number of applied linguistic fields such as:\n\nIn contrast to phonetics, phonology is the study of how sounds and gestures pattern in and across languages, relating such concerns with other levels and aspects of language. Phonetics deals with the articulatory and acoustic properties of speech sounds, how they are produced, and how they are perceived. As part of this investigation, phoneticians may concern themselves with the physical properties of meaningful sound contrasts or the social meaning encoded in the speech signal (socio-phonetics) (e.g. gender, sexuality, ethnicity, etc.). However, a substantial portion of research in phonetics is not concerned with the meaningful elements in the speech signal.\n\nWhile it is widely agreed that phonology is grounded in phonetics, phonology is a distinct branch of linguistics, concerned with sounds and gestures as abstract units (e.g., distinctive features, phonemes, morae, syllables, etc.) and their conditioned variation (via, e.g., allophonic rules, constraints, or derivational rules). Phonology has been argued to relate to phonetics via the set of distinctive features, which map the abstract representations of speech units to articulatory gestures, acoustic signals or perceptual representations.\n\nPhonetic transcription is a system for transcribing sounds that occur in a language, whether oral or sign. The most widely known system of phonetic transcription, the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), provides a standardized set of symbols for oral phones. The standardized nature of the IPA enables its users to transcribe accurately and consistently the phones of different languages, dialects, and idiolects. The IPA is a useful tool not only for the study of phonetics, but also for language teaching, professional acting, and speech pathology.\n\n"}
{"id": "32204428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32204428", "title": "Political violence", "text": "Political violence\n\nPolitical violence is violence perpetrated by people or governments to achieve political goals. It can describe violence used by a state against other states (war) or against non-state actors (e.g. police brutality, counter-insurgency, genocide). It can also describe politically-motivated violence by non-state actors against a state (e.g. rebellion, rioting) or against other non-state actors. Non-action on the part of a government can also be characterized as a form of political violence, such as refusing to alleviate famine or otherwise denying resources to politically identifiable groups within their territory. \n\nDue to the imbalances of power between state and non-state actors, political violence often takes the form of asynchronous warfare where neither side is able to directly assault the other, instead relying on tactics such as terrorism and guerrilla warfare, and often include attacks on civilian or otherwise non-combatant targets that are perceived as a proxy for the opposing faction.\n\nMany groups and individuals believe that their political systems will never respond to their demands and thus believe that violence is not only justified but also necessary in order to achieve their political objectives. Similarly, many governments around the world believe they need to use violence in order to intimidate their populace into acquiescence. At other times, governments use force in order to defend their country from outside invasion or other threats of force and to coerce other governments or conquer territory.\n\nPolitical violence varies widely in form, severity, and practice. In political science, a common organizing framework is to consider types of violence by the relevant actors: violence between non-state actors, one-sided violence perpetrated by a state actor against civilians, and violence between states.\n\nFighting between non-state actors without state security forces playing a direct role in the conflict.\nAn ethnic conflict is fought between ethnic groups. While at times a specific ethnic group may have the backing (whether formal or informal) of the state (or conversely, a specific ethnic group may be targeted by the state), ethnic conflict can also take place between two groups without the direct intervention of the state, or despite the state's attempts to mediate between groups.\n\nTerrorism can be directed by non-state actors against political targets other than the state (e.g. Stabbing attacks at gay pride parades in Jerusalem, Charlie Hebdo shooting). Because terrorism is a tactic often used by the weaker side of a conflict, it may also fall under violence between a state and non-state actor.\n\nWhile there lacks a concrete definition of terrorism, the United States Department of Defense however defines terrorism as, \"the calculated use of unlawful violence or threat of unlawful violence to inculcate fear; intended to coerce or to intimidate governments or societies in the pursuit of goals that are generally political, religious, or ideological.\" What is and is not considered terrorism is itself a controversial political question, as states have often used the label of terrorism to exclusively demonize the actions of their enemies while obscuring \"legal\" violence administered by the state (e.g. The Troubles, CPP–NPA–NDF rebellion, 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict).\n\nThe use of force by an organized armed group, be it a government or non-state group, which results in the deaths of civilians. According to the Human Security Report Project, a campaign of one-sided violence is recorded whenever violence against civilians committed by one group results in at least 25 reported deaths in a calendar year.\n\nOne form of political violence is genocide. Genocide is commonly defined as \"the deliberate and systematic destruction, in whole or in part, of an ethnic, racial, religious, or national group\", although what constitutes enough of a \"part\" to qualify as genocide has been subject to much debate by legal scholars. Genocide is typically carried out with either the overt or covert support of the governments of those countries where genocidal activities take place. The Holocaust is the most cited historical example of genocide.\n\nTorture is the act of inflicting severe pain (whether physical or psychological) as a means of punishment, revenge, forcing information or confession, or simply as an act of cruelty. Torture is prohibited under international law and the domestic laws of most countries in the 21st century. It is considered a human rights violation and is declared unacceptable by Article 5 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Signatories of the Third Geneva Convention and Fourth Geneva Convention have officially agreed not to torture prisoners in armed conflicts. National and international legal prohibitions on torture derive from a consensus that torture and similar ill-treatment are immoral, as well as impractical. Despite international conventions, torture cases continue to arise such as the 2004 Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse scandal committed by military police personnel of the United States Army. Organizations such as Amnesty International and the International Rehabilitation Council for Torture Victims monitor abuses of human rights and reports widespread violations of human torture in by states in many regions of the world. Amnesty International estimates that at least 81 world governments currently practice torture, some of them openly.\n\nCapital punishment is the sentence of death upon a person by the state as a punishment for an offense. This does not include extrajudicial killing, which is the killing of a person by governmental authorities without the sanction of any judicial proceeding or legal process. The use of capital punishment by country varies, but according to Amnesty International 58 countries still actively use the death penalty, and in 2010, 23 countries carried out executions and 67 imposed death sentences. Methods of execution in 2010 included beheading, electrocution, hanging, lethal injection and shooting. In 2007 the United Nations General Assembly passed the UN moratorium on the death penalty which called for worldwide abolition of the death penalty.\n\nPolice brutality is another form of political violence. It is most commonly described in juxtaposition with the term excessive force. Police brutality can be defined as \"a civil rights violation that occurs when a police officer acts with excessive force by using an amount of force with regards to a civilian that is more than necessary\". Police brutality and the use of excessive force are present throughout the world and in the United States alone, 4,861 incidences of police misconduct were reported during 2010 (see also Police brutality (United States)). Of these, there were 6,826 victims involved and 247 fatalities.\n\nFamine can be initiated or prolonged in order to deny resources, compel obedience, or to depopulate a region with a recalcitrant or untrusted populace.\n\nAt least one of the warring parties involved is the government of a state.\n\nA riot can be described as a violent disturbance by a group of individuals formed to protest perceived wrongs and/or injustice. These can range from poverty and inequality to unemployment and government oppression. They can manifest themselves in a number of ways but most commonly in the form of property damage. Riots are characterized by their lack of predictability and the anonymity of their participants. Both make it difficult for authorities to identify those participating.\n\nRiots have been analyzed in a number of ways but most recently in the context of the frustration-aggression model theory, expressing that the aggression seen in most riots is a direct result of a groups frustration with a particular aspect of their lives.Widespread and prolonged rioting can lead to and/or produce rebellion or revolution. There are also a number of different types of riots including but not limited to police riots, race riot, prison riots, and sport riot.\n\nAlso known as an intrastate war, a civil war is a war fought within the same state or country between organized groups. Less commonly, it can also be fought between two countries that have been created from one previously unified state. Often these conflicts involve one group wishing to take control of a region or expressing dissatisfaction with the government. There is typically a desire to overthrow the existing power or at least change some of their policies. In many cases, an outside power may intervene on behalf of one side if they share their ideology or condemn the methods/motives of their opponents.\n\nCounter-insurgency, another form of political violence, describes a spectrum of actions taken by the recognized government of a state to contain or quell an insurgency taken up against it. There are many different doctrines, theories, and tactics espoused regarding counter-insurgency that aim to protect the authority of the government and to reduce or eliminate the supplanting authority of the insurgents. Because it may be difficult or impossible to distinguish between an insurgent, a supporter of an insurgency who is a non-combatant, and entirely uninvolved members of the population, counter-insurgency operations have often rested on a confused, relativistic, or otherwise situational distinction between insurgents and non-combatants. Counter-insurgency operations are common during war, occupation and armed rebellions.\n\nWar is a state of organized, armed, and often prolonged conflict carried on between states, nations, or other parties typified by extreme aggression, social disruption, and usually high mortality. War should be understood as an actual, intentional and widespread armed conflict between political communities, and therefore is defined as a form of political violence. Three of the ten most costly wars, in terms of loss of life, have been waged in the last century: the death toll of World War II, estimated at more than 60 million, surpasses all other war death tolls by a factor of two. It is estimated that 378,000 people died due to war each year between 1985 and 1994.\n\nScholarship and data suggests that violence has declined. Since World War II, there has been a decline in battle deaths and since the Cold War, there has been a decline in conflict. Recently, scholars have started to question this long-held belief.\n\nSince World War II, there has been a decline in battle deaths and since the Cold War, there has been a decline in conflict. Between 1992 and 2005, violent conflict around the world dropped by 40 percent. In The Better Angels of Our Nature, Steven Pinker argues that this decline has not occurred over the past 60 years, but has been going on for over the past millennia.\n\nDatasets on political violence have shown similar trends.\n\nFor example, the Center for Systemic Peace finds that in the post-World War II era armed conflict was at its peak when the Soviet Union collapsed. From the 1990s to the early 2000s, the levels of armed conflict declined. Recently, armed conflict has begun to increase as political violence in the Middle East and Africa begins to increase.\n\nUppsala Conflict Data Program (UCDP), another project that collects armed conflict data, has found similar trends as well. UCDP defines armed conflict as conflict that involves the government of a state which \"results in at least 25 battle-related deaths in one calendar year.\"\n\nIn their overview of armed conflict, UCDP has found that the number of armed conflicts in the world has decreased since the end of the Cold War, yet, there has been some recent upward trends. In the past ten years, the UCDP has found an upward trend in the number of internationalized armed conflicts, \"a conflict between a government of a state and internal opposition groups with intervention from other states.\"\n\nRecently, the conventional wisdom that violent conflict has declined is being challenged. Scholars argue that the current data, focus on the number of battle deaths per country per year, are misleading.\n\nTanisha Fazal argues that wars have become less fatal because of medical advancements that help keep more people alive during wars. Therefore, the battle death threshold used by the UCDP and other organizations to determine cases of armed conflict is misleading. A conflict \"that produced 1,000 battle deaths in 1820 will likely produce many fewer overall casualties (where casualties, properly understood, include the dead and wounded) than a conflict with 1,000 battle deaths today.\" The current data makes it seem like, war is becoming less frequent, when it is not.\n\nBear F. Braumoeller argues that looking at data on per-capita death is a \"misleading and irrelevant statistic\" because it does not tell us how wars actually happen. A decrease in battle-related deaths can mean that population growth is outpacing war deaths or that \"fewer people are exposed to risk of death from war\". Instead, we should examine the willingness of a state to go to war. Braumoeller creates a new metric for conflicted called the \"use of force\", which is the number of militarized dispute that reaches at least a level 4 on the 5-point Correlates of War Militarized Interstate Dispute scale. He finds that use of force has held steady from the 1800s through the First World War, but after World War I the use of force has steadily increased. Braumoeller creates another metric called \"uses of force per relevant dyad\", which is the use of force between neighboring states or states with one major power. Using this metric he finds that there is no downward trend in the rates of conflict initiation since the post-World War II period. Additionally, he finds that the rates of conflict have remain steady over the past two hundred years and the slight increases and decreases in use of force are random.\n\nIn 2014, UCDP estimates that 126,059 people were killed in organized violence, which is the highest fatality count in the post-Cold War period. Syria had the most violent conflict followed by Iraq and Afghanistan. Additionally, there were 40 armed conflicts active in 27 locations in the world. This is the largest number of conflicts reported since 1999.\n\nRegionally, Asia had the largest amount of violent conflict at 14, followed by Africa at 12, Europe at six, Middle East at six, and the Americas at two.\n\nDuring that year, four new conflicts began, all of them in Ukraine. Three conflicts were restarted by new actors in  Egypt, Lebanon, and Libya. Additionally, six conflicts were restarted by previously registered actors in \"Azerbaijan (Nagorno-Karabakh), India (Garoland), India–Pakistan, Israel (Palestine), Mali (Azawad), and Myanmar (Kokang)\". Finally, seven conflicts in 2013 were no longer active in 2014. The conflicts were in Central African Republic, Ethiopia (Oromiya), Malaysia (Sabah), Myanmar (Karen), Myanmar (Shan), Mozambique, and Turkey (Kurdistan).\n\nOut of the 40 conflicts, 11 have been classified at the level of war, which means that there were at least 1,000 deaths in one calendar year. The conflict between India and Pakistan was the only interstate conflict, conflict between two or more states. Out of the remaining 39 conflicts, 13 were internationalized, a conflict between a government and internal opposition group where other states intervene. The percentage of internationalized conflict is 33% (13/39), which is the largest proportion of external actors in intrastate conflicts since the post-World War II era.\n\nJust like armed conflict, there was an increase in fatalities associated with terrorism. In 2014, the United States State Department reported 13,463 terrorist attacks in the world. These attacks resulted in at least 32,700 deaths and 34,700 injuries. In addition, more than 9,400 people were kidnapped or taken hostage. Compared to 2013, the number of terrorist attacks increased by 35% and the total fatalities increased by 81%.\n\nIn 2014, the five countries that experienced the most terrorist attacks were Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan, India, and Nigeria. In 2013, Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan, India, and the Philippines were the countries that experienced the most terrorist attacks.\n\nIn 2013 and 2014, the perpetrators responsible for the most terrorist attacks were ISIS, the Taliban, al-Shabaab, Boko Haram, and Maoists. Fifty-five percent of the targets were either private citizens, private property, or police. 66% of attacks in Nigeria and 41% of attacks in Iraq targeted private citizens and property.\n\nThe Global Terrorism Database estimates that  that between 2004 and 2013, about 50% of all terrorist attacks, and 60% of fatalities due to terrorist attacks, took place in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan.\n\nTheories of political violence can be organized by their level of analysis: \n\nSocial conflict theory is a Marxist-based social theory which states that social systems reflect the vested interests of those who own and control resources. The people in power use the political and economic institutions to exploit groups with less power. This causes the rest of society to become alienated or psychologically separated from the people in power. Revolutions occur to break down the social and economic separation between the people in power and the exploited people and \"to achieve equity and social unity\".\n\nWar's inefficiency puzzle explains why states go to war even though war is costly. In James Fearon’s \"Rationalist Explanations for War\", he asserts war is costly and that creates an incentive to bargain with the other side. However, states do not bargain and instead go to war because of private information on the capability to fight and the incentives to misrepresent this information.\n\nFunctionalism sees society as \"an organism whose entire system has to be in good working order for systemic equilibrium to be maintained.\" However, when there is an unexpected shock to the system, society becomes disorientated allowing for collective violence.\n\nMass society argues that violent social movements come from people who are isolated socially and from political institutions. People who are alienated are easily convinced to join radical or extremist movements.\n\nResource mobilization is a theory on social movement that emphasizes the capacity of competing groups to organize and use adequate resources to achieve their goals. The resources can be time, money, organizational skills, and certain social or political opportunities. Political violence occurs when individuals are able to mobilize sufficient resources to take action.\n\nPrimordialism is an explanation of ethnic violence and ethnic conflict. \"Interethnic differences based on racial, language, religious, regional characteristics, and other visible markers produce interethnic conflicts because members of that same group emotionally identify with their in-group, but feel no such identify with those outside their ethnic group.\"  \n\nInstrumentalism is an explanation of ethnic violence and ethnic conflict. Ethnicity is not inherent in human nature. Conflict occurs when leaders manipulate ethnicity for the sake of political power or economic gain.\n\nConstructivist is an explanations of ethnic violence and ethnic conflict. Ethnic and national identities are socially constructed and are formed through social, economic and political processes, like colonization and conquest. Ethnic conflict is a product of the factors shaping ethnic identity and not from ethnicity itself.\n\nA youth bulge occurs when there is disproportionate percentage of a state population being between the ages of 15 and 24 years old. It occurs when infant mortality rates decrease and fertility rate increase. This youth bulge increases the working-age population; however, it does not translate to more jobs being available, which leads to severe unemployment. This will cause the young adult male population to \"prolong dependency on parents, diminish self-esteem and fuel frustrations\". This leads the youth to \"seek social and economic advancement by alternative, extralegal means\", which means that the opportunity costs to join armed movements are low.\n\nRational choice theory is a decision-making approach in which the decisions makers compare the expected utility of competing options and select the option that produces the most favorable outcome. Political violence occurs when the benefits in participating in political violence outweighs the costs.\n\nIn \"Why Men Rebel\", Ted Robert Gurr uses relative deprivation theory to explain why men commit acts of violence. As Gurr explains, relative deprivation \"is defined as actors' perception of discrepancy between their value expectations and their value capabilities.\" In other words, relative deprivation is the gap between the wants and needs we feel we deserve versus what we are capable of \"getting and keeping.\" The collective discontent, the gap between the expected and achieved welfare, leads people to resort to violence.\n\nCollective action theory explains why people participate in rebellions. A person decides to participate or not participate in a rebellion based on the benefits and costs. Generally, people decide to be free riders and not to participate in the rebellion. These people will still receive the benefits of the rebellion since the benefits are a public good. However, if people are expected to receive private goods, like material rewards or power, then that person is expected to rebel.\n\nGreed versus grievance provides two lines of explanations as to why individuals will fight. Individuals are said to be motivated by greed when they decide to join a conflict in an effort to better their situation and find that benefits of joining a rebellion or any kind of collective violence is greater than not joining. Individuals are said to be motivated by grievance when they fight over \"high inequality, a lack of political rights or ethnic and religious divisions in society.\" In \"Greed and Grievance in Civil War\", Paul Collier and Anke Hoeffler argue that greed is a better predictor of participating in violence than grievance.\n\nIn the aftermath of political violence, there are many changes that occur within the state, society, and the individual.\n\nSocial science literature that examines how political violence affects the region, state, nation, and society.\n\nCharles Tilly argues that \"war making\", eliminating rivals outside a territory, \"state making\", eliminating rivals within a territory, \"protection\", protecting subjects within a territory, and \"extraction\", extracting resources to \"[carry] out the first three activities\", are what defines a state. All four actives depend on the state's ability to use and monopolize violence. In other words, politically and non-politically motivated violence is necessary in state-building and building fiscal capacity.\n\nThere are a growing number of social science studies that examine how political violence affects individuals and households. It is important to keep in mind that what happens at the individual and household level can affect what happens at the macro level. For example, political violence effects an individual's income, health, and education attainment, but these individual consequences combined can effect a state or nation's economic growth. In other words, the macro and micro consequences of political violence do not occur in a vacuum.\n\nThere are empirical studies that link violence with increases in political participation. One natural experiment examines the effect of being abducted by Joseph Kony's LRA on political participation. An abducted male Ugandan youth, or in other words a former child soldier, had a greater probability of voting for Uganda's 2005 referendum and being a community mobilizer/leader than a male Ugandan youth who wasn't abducted.\n\nHowever, this effect is not just contained to Uganda. Another natural experiment on the effects of the Sierra Leone civil war found that victimized households, household whose members were killed, injured, maimed, captured, or made refugees, were more likely to register to vote, attend community meetings, and participate in local political and community groups than households that did not experience violence.\n\nA study on the effects of the Sierra Leone civil war found that victimized households, household whose members were killed, injured, maimed, captured, or displaced, did not have long-term impacts on owning assets, child nutrition, consumption expenditures and earnings.\n\nThe Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project (ACLED) is a project that collates data on political violence and protest in developing states, from 1997 to the present. As of early 2016, ACLED has recorded over 100,000 individual events, with ongoing data collection focused on Africa and ten countries in South and Southeast Asia. The data can be used for medium- and long-term analysis and mapping of political violence across developing countries through use of historical data from 1997, as well as informing humanitarian and development work in crisis and conflict-affected contexts through real time data updates and reports.\n\nACLED defines \"political violence\" as \"the use of force by a group with a political purpose or motivation.\" The database uses this definition to catalog a number of what it refers to as political events across Africa and South East Asia. Political events are described as \"a single altercation where often force is used by one or more groups for a political end. The data project catalogs nine different types of events.\n\nThe Human Security Report Project or HSRP catalogs global and regional trends in organized violence, their causes and consequences. Research findings and analyses are published in the Human Security Report, Human Security Brief series, and the miniAtlas of Human Security based in Vancouver, Canada.\n\nUsing data from the Uppsala Conflict Data Program, the report tracks 5 types of violence \none of the warring parties is the government of a state.\nInterstate Conflicts are conflicts between two states. \nIntrastate Conflicts happen within a state such as a civil war. \nneither of which is the government of a state\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39169323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39169323", "title": "Porn Art Movement", "text": "Porn Art Movement\n\nThe Porn Art Movement (Movimento de Arte Pornô) was a transgressive Brazilian avant-garde movement that started in 1980 and ended in 1982. The movement took place under a military dictatorship and pioneered the use of pornography both as a form of political resistance and as an innovative art medium. The movement was formally experimental, politically progressive and socially non-normative. It used the word “porn” deliberately but it did not produce conventional pornography. Rather, it rejected erotica, which was accepted by the dictatorship, and subverted the logic of pornography to create social, political and aesthetic alternatives that employed humor, scatology, surprise, poetry, performance, body politics and pansexuality. Organized and coordinated activities ended in 1982, but isolated performances were realized and publications came out until 1984. The book \"Antolorgia\", published in 1984, was the last publication of the movement.\n\nThe Movimento de Arte Pornô (Porn Art Movement), also known as Poesia Pornô (Pornpoetry) or Pornismo (Pornism), was conceived by Eduardo Kac in January 1980 in Rio de Janeiro. Kac invited Cairo Trindade to develop the movement together and they launched it publicly on March 30, 1980, through their Ipanema Beach intervention called \"Pelo Topless Literário\" (\"Literary Topless\"). This was a sudden invasion of the beach’s Lifeguard Post 9 (Posto Nove) with performances, poetry readings, demonstrations with banners featuring slogans, and distribution of publications. Lifeguard Post 9 was a strategic choice: it was considered at the time the epicenter of the beach (and, as a consequence, a major focal point of the city).\n\nSoon after the \"Literary Topless\" intervention, Kac and Trindade invited Teresa Jardim to join them, thus forming the official performative arm of the movement, which they called Gang (The Gang). Braulio Tavares, Ana Miranda, Cynthia Dorneles and Sandra Terra also performed with The Gang.\n\nKac and Trindade wrote the \"Manifesto Pornô\" (\"Porn Manifesto\") in May 1980 and first published it in the movement’s zine \"Gang\", n. 1, September 1980. The movement published a total of three editions of the \"Gang\" zine, in addition to chapbooks, stickers, t-shirts, prints, comics, artist’s books and anthologies.\n\nBetween 1980 and 1982, every Friday night The Gang performed at Rio’s main square known as Cinelândia, a vibrant and busy area surrounded by the Municipal Theatre, the National Library, the Rio de Janeiro City Council and the National Museum of Fine Arts. In front of a public that mixed intellectuals and popular audiences, the Gang read out loud the \"Porn Manifesto\" on September 9, 1980. The selection of Cinelândia was also a strategic maneuver, since it is the heart of Rio de Janeiro.\n\nOn February 13, 1982, the Gang presented its last major public intervention, which took place in Ipanema Beach’s Lifeguard Post 9. This event, which Kac considers the formal end of the movement, mobilized 9 performers, explored the entire repertoire developed during the preceding two years, included a wide array of props and publications, climaxed with a nude demonstration along the beach (which was and still is forbidden by law), mobilized public participation, and culminated with a collective dive in the ocean—a symbolic act meant to signify self-renewal, the beginning of a better path forward beyond the prevailing political and aesthetic conservatism.\n\nThe videographer Belisario Franca, then a photographer, accompanied The Gang between 1980 and 1982, producing photographic documentation of many of its interventions.\n\nThe Brazilian Porn Art Movement anticipated the international use of pornography as a critical and imaginative art form, as later seen in the work of Jeff Koons, Annie Sprinkle, Sue Williams, Santiago Sierra, Shu Lea Cheang, Wim Delvoye and the artists featured in the 2006 DVD compilation entitled \"Destricted\".\n\nThe movement started to be rediscovered in 2010, when the Laura Marsiaj Gallery, in Rio de Janeiro, exhibited Eduardo Kac’s series entitled \"Pornogramas\" (\"Pornograms\"), developed by the artist between 1980 and 1982. The first museum exhibition of the Brazilian Porn Art Movement took place at the Reina Sofía Museum, in Madrid, in the context of the group show \"Losing the Human Form\", realized in October 2012. The museum published a catalogue that features the movement.\n\n\nThe Porn Art Movement produced work in a variety of media, including performance, poetry, graffiti, drawing, photography, cartoon and the graphic arts. Glauco Mattoso created an innovative form that he called \"Jornal Dobrabil\", a self-printed double-sided sheet designed entirely on a typewriter that was visually provocative and mixed indiscriminately classic, experimental and popular pornographic material. Hudinilson Jr. created a visual vocabulary based on his systematic sampling of his own body through reprographic media, notably the photocopier. Leila Míccolis, Teresa Jardim and Cynthia Dorneles developed their respective poetic voices through a form of feminism that combined unabashed pornography and liberal political positions. Ota produced invitations, posters, cartoons and comics through which he advanced the movement’s agenda while inviting the movement’s participants and the public to laugh. The poetry of Braulio Tavares and the drawings of Siegbert Franklin were also significant contributions to the movement. Publicly forging a new subjectivity, Eduardo Kac wore a pink mini-skirt in his daily life. Kac also developed the innovative series entitled \"Pornograms\", hybrid of body art, design, political resistance, performance, publishing, activism, photography and poetry. In this series Kac uses photography to explore the possibilities of writing with the body and writing the body itself. Kac included two \"Pornograms\" in his artist’s book \"Escracho\", which he published in 1983.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24210628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24210628", "title": "ReCALL (journal)", "text": "ReCALL (journal)\n\nReCALL is an academic journal of the European Association for Computer Assisted Language Learning, published by Cambridge University Press. The journal's main focus is the use of technologies for language learning and teaching. It was established in 1989 and previously published by the CTI Centre of the University of Hull. It publishes approximately 20 articles per year. The articles cover various aspects of CALL (computer-assisted language learning) and technology enhanced language learning.\n\nThe journal is currently abstracted and indexed in ERIC, EBSCOhost, Educational Research Abstracts, Inspec, Linguistics and Language Behavior Abstracts, MLA International Bibliography, ProQuest, PsycINFO, Scopus, Social Sciences Citation Index.\n"}
{"id": "3420434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3420434", "title": "Red–green–brown alliance", "text": "Red–green–brown alliance\n\nThe term red-green-brown alliance, originating in France, refers to the alleged alliance of Leftists (\"red\"), ecologically-minded agrarians (\"green\"), and Islamists (\"brown\").\nThe term has also been used to describe alleged alliances of industrial union-focused leftists (\"red\"), ecologically-minded agrarians (\"green\"), and nationalists (\"brown\").\nIt is often used in a broad sense to refer to antisemitic, anti-globalization, anti-American, or anti-Western views shared by disparate groups and movements.\n\nFrench essayist Alexandre del Valle wrote of \"une alliance idéologique ... rouge-brun-vert\" (\"a red-green brown ... ideological alliance\") in an 22 April 2002 article in the newspaper \"Le Figaro\", and wrote \"Rouges-Bruns-Verts, l'étrange alliance\", in a January 2004 article in the magazine \"Politique Internationale\".\n\nDel Valle's conceptual rendering of Islamist ideological trends appears to be based, at least partially, on earlier writings in which he had charged the United States and western Europe with favouring the \"war machine\" of \"armed Islamism\" via its funding of the Afghani mujahideen during the Soviet–Afghan War during the presidency of Ronald Reagan, which helped future enemies of the West. In 2010, Del Valle published in Italy an essay entitled \"\" (Red, Black, Green: The meeting of extreme opposites.)\n\nThe later popularity of the \"red-green-brown\" theory (and its various permutations) derives mainly from a speech given by Roger Cukierman, president of the French Jewish organization CRIF, to a CRIF banquet on 25 January 2003, and given wide circulation by a 27/28 January 2003 article in \"Le Monde\". Cukierman used the French term \"alliance brun-vert-rouge\" to describe the antisemitic alignment supposedly shared by \"an extreme right nostalgic for racial hierarchies\" (symbolized by the color brown), \"an extreme left [which is] anti-globalist, anti-capitalist, anti-American [and] anti-Zionist\" (red), and followers of José Bové (green).\n\nIn Great Britain in 2003, politician George Galloway announced that he was seeking \"to unify the red, green, anti-war, Muslim and other social constituencies radicalised by the war\". Shortly thereafter, led by Salma Yaqoob and George Monbiot, the Socialist Workers Party and the Muslim Association of Britain formed an alliance in the Respect Party, under which Galloway ran for office. Respect initially tried to form an electoral pact with the Green Party of England and Wales, but the Green Party refused to ally with Respect, saying that Respect did not align with their values of openness and democracy and had an under-developed political platform among other issues.\n\nIn the United States, a similar alliance of disparate groups occurred in opposition to the World Trade Organization in the alter-globalization movement, which joined trade unions, neo-Luddite environmentalists, and paleoconservative nationalists like Pat Buchanan in common cause. Many were surprised by leftist Lenora Fulani's support for Pat Buchanan, which has been viewed as an example of a red–green–brown alliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "14665696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14665696", "title": "Richard Nolte", "text": "Richard Nolte\n\nRichard H. Nolte (December 27, 1920 – November 22, 2007) was an American Middle East expert and diplomat. Nolte was the second director of the Institute of Current World Affairs. He was appointed ambassador to the United Arab Republic, which was the name of Egypt at the time, but never served due to the Six-Day War.\n\nNolte was born on December 27, 1920 in Duluth, Minnesota to Julius and Mildred Miller Nolte. He earned a bachelor's degree in European Studies at Yale University in 1943.\n\nHe served as a U.S. Navy pilot in World War II from 1943 to 1945 following his graduation. He returned to Yale following his discharge from the Navy and earned a master's degree in international relations in 1947. He earned a Rhodes Scholarship and began studying Arabic, Arab history and Islamic law at Oxford University in 1947.\n\nNolte and his wife lived in Beirut, Lebanon from 1951 until 1957, thanks to a grant from the Institute of Current World Affairs. He also taught at Dartmouth College in the late 1950s before serving as a Middle East specialist for the American Universities Field Staff.\n\nNolte was appointed as the second executive director of the Institute of Current World Affairs in 1959, a position he held until 1978. (The ICWA was founded in 1925 by Walter Rogers). He often awarded fellowships not just to the traditional fields of diplomacy and journalism, but also to a wide array of disciplines such as music (Roger Reynolds) and dieticians (Andrew Weil). He was best known at the Institute for appointing its first woman fellow, Barbara Bright, a journalist who studied in Germany.\n\nU.S. President Lyndon Johnson named Nolte as the U.S. ambassador to Egypt in 1967 because of his expertise in Middle Eastern affairs. He arrived in Cairo on May 21, 1967. However, the Six-Day War broke out just two hours before Nolte was due to present his diplomatic credentials to Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser on June 5, 1967. Nolte instead spent his first week in Cairo, Egypt, helping to arrange passage home for Americans stranded in Egypt by the war.\n\nNasser had refused to meet with Nolte because the United States had allied with Israel during the war. He was expelled from Egypt on June 10, 1967, just one day before the ceasefire which halted the war. \"The Washington Post\" later called Nolte's short three week term as ambassador \"one of the shortest and most hectic diplomatic careers on record.\" Nolte reportedly expected to be offered another ambassadorship somewhere in the Middle East, but U.S. Secretary of State Dean Rusk refused to offer Nolte another position because he viewed Nolte as an Arabist.\n\nIronically, Nolte supported Nasser specifically and the Arab side of the conflict with Israel in general, producing diplomatic cables that argued the U.S. should ignore its pledge to Israel that it would not allow Egypt to cut off the Sinai Peninsula via the Straits of Tiran to Israeli vessels. According to Benjamin Foldy, when Egyptian officials suddenly agreed to meet with the U.S. and opened up an official embassy channel to get their demands to Washington, Nolte held talks with Egyptian government representatives on providing a \"pro-Arab\" response (providing recognition of the Egypt-Syrian United Arab Republic, declaring Israel to be the aggressor in the conflict, and drafting a UN Security Council resolution to force Israel to withdraw from any territories they'd won in the conflict) to the disastrous results for Cairo as Egyptian forces were routedby Israelis. However, his recommendations to the State Department were completely ignored, as the incompetent work of Arabist diplomats before the war had left LBJ's Administration uninterested in listening to any of their suggestions.\n\nNolte served as the chairman of the American Geographical Society from 1988 until 1996. The American Geographical Society, founded in 1851, provides geographic consulting to American foreign policymakers. Nolte led the Society's 1978 negotiations with the University of Wisconsin–Madison when the AGS transferred ownership of its maps and artifacts to the school.\n\nHe also served as a member of a number of other organizations concerned with international relations. Nolte served on the board of directors and as a past president of the Near East Foundation. He was also a member of the National Geographic Society, the Council on Foreign Relations, the Arctic Institute of North America and the Alicia Patterson Foundation. He also became an active board member of the National Aphasia Association after his wife, Jeanne McQuarrie Nolte, suffered a stroke and lost her ability to speak.\n\nNolte and 16 other former American diplomats wrote a letter to President George W. Bush in May 2004 urging the President's administration to change its foreign policy in the Middle East. The letter criticized the Bush administration for placing U.S. troops, diplomats and civilians \"in an untenable and even dangerous position.\"\n\nRichard Nolte died of complications from a stroke at his home in Hanover, New Hampshire, on November 22, 2007. He was 86 years old and was survived by his wife, Jeanne McQuarrie Nolte, and four sons.\n\n"}
{"id": "47256414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47256414", "title": "Ronald H. Chilcote", "text": "Ronald H. Chilcote\n\nRonald H. Chilcote (born February 20, 1935) is Edward A. Dickson Emeritus Professor of Economics and Political Science at the University of California, Riverside, and has served as Managing Editor of the academic journal \"Latin American Perspectives\" since its founding in 1974. Chilcote is known for his scholarship on Brazil, Portugal, and the former Portuguese colonies in Africa as well as for his work on comparative politics and political economy and development theory.\n\nChilcote came from an upper-middle-class Republican family that owned a small business in Cleveland, Ohio, that manufactured photo mounts. Following family tradition, Chilcote attended Dartmouth College where he was introduced to progressive thought during his senior year as a member of the English poetry circle, dedicated to encouraging promising writers, led by Richard Eberhart. Through Eberhart’s seminar, he met Richard Wilbur (then at Smith College), Donald Hall, and Robert Frost, and later, at Stanford, he attended the literature courses of Yvor Winters and Wallace Stegner.\n\nAfter returning from an extended stay in Europe, he enrolled in Stanford’s Graduate School of Business, received an M.B.A., and experienced an unexpectedly radicalizing period when he was funded to conduct a study of U.S. business in Guatemala and Chile, hitchhiked through other countries, and even visited Cuba on the eve of the Cuban Revolution. Exposure to Latin America’s extreme inequality led him to Ronald Hilton’s M. A. program in at Stanford and then into a Ph.D. program in political economy, including studies with Paul Baran. His interest in the roots of Latin American poverty shaped his long-term research agenda, beginning with a doctoral dissertation on Spain and continuing with a book on Portugal and the Portuguese colonies in Africa. This work occurred under the fascist regimes of Francisco Franco in Spain and António de Oliveira Salazar in Portugal, and it included a research trip to the then-Portuguese colony of Angola where he was arrested by the Portuguese secret police in Luanda and held prisoner and interrogated for ten days. Denied the possibility of returning to Portugal, he refocused his research on Brazil, especially the high poverty Northeast.\n\nHe and Frances Bunker Chilcote have been married since 1961 and they have two sons, Edward and Stephen.\n\nChilcote taught in the Departments of Economics and Political Science at the University of California Riverside (UCR) from 1964 to 1994 where he was honored with the Distinguished Teaching Award. Since 1994, he has been Professor Emeritus. With a Ford Foundation grant he headed up the Latin American Research Program at UCR during the 1960s. He was a founder of the Latin American Studies major, served as Director of the Program on Latin American Studies for over 15 years, and as Professor Emeritus continues to serve on the Latin American Studies Steering Committee. He also established the UC Brazil Studies Center in Rio de Janeiro and served as its Director from 1992-1994.\n\nHis role in graduate education included starting a graduate program in comparative political economy and chairing 40 dissertation committees and serving on an additional 24 for Ph.D. degrees awarded at UCR, UCLA, Rutgers, SUNY, and other universities. He also provided opportunities for graduate students to develop professional writing, editing, and reviewing skills as \"Latin American Perspectives\" interns.\n\nChilcote was a founder of the academic journal \"Latin American Perspectives\"(LAP) which was launched in 1974 as a new scholarly space to bring together academics and other intellectuals, both within and outside Latin America, for critical theoretical and empirical work on cutting-edge topics that had few academic outlets in the United States at that time. It was organized as an independent editorial collective, with Chilcote serving as the elected Managing Editor from its founding to the present. It emphasized scholarship that analyzes national and transnational systems of power and the movements for structural transformation, social justice and human rights in Latin America. The founders highlighted the importance of political economy and opened its pages to a range of approaches, including Marxism. They were committed to LAP addressing significant theoretical debates and to bringing the work of Latin American scholars to an English-speaking readership, including translating Spanish and Portuguese manuscripts.\n\nThis thrust was evident in LAP’s first issue, which focused on the debates within dependency theory in Latin America, with a lead article by Chilcote, “Dependency: A Critical Synthesis of the Literature” and contributions from leading Latin American theorists. Subsequently, (LAP, Summer-Fall 1981), he considered the relationship of dependency and Marxism. A consistent proponent of class analysis, Chilcote critiqued the neo-Marxist and postmodernist theoretical currents that developed as approaches to new social movements, as expressed in his lead article in LAP’s 1990 thematic issue on “Post-Marxism, the Left, and Democracy.” Since the setbacks for Latin American revolutionary movements and the collapse of the Soviet Union, journal content reflected the shift toward critical analysis of the ascendant Washington Consensus around neoliberalism and the resistance to it by social movements. LAP approached neoliberal globalization from the perspective of imperialism and class analysis as illustrated by Chilcote’s article “Globalization or Imperialism?” in the November 2002 issue.\n\nUnder Chilcote’s leadership, the LAP editorial collective engaged in internal discussion of topics such as the significance of the Cuban Revolution on its fiftieth anniversary and President Obama’s Latin American policy and published the resulting statements in the journal in January 2009 and July 2011 respectively. The latter was part of a broader Obama Initiative that included a featured session chaired by Chilcote at the Latin American Studies Association Congress in Toronto in 2010 and resolutions on Obama’s policy and Cuba submitted by LAP editors.\n\nChilcote currently edits the \"Latin American Perspectives\" in the Classroom and Critical Currents book series for Rowman and Littlefield. The Classroom series introduces students in the social sciences and Latin American studies to important themes and issues about Latin America that have appeared in the journal. The nine books in the series contain articles edited to be accessible to nonspecialists. Each text includes both general and section introductions to contextualize the concepts and topics that follow.\n\nThe Critical Currents series emphasizes examination of the institutional, political, economic, and social forces that are shaping contemporary Latin America, considered in a context of current theoretical issues and debates. The 13 books in the series are intended for scholars, advanced students, and general readers alike.\n\nChilcote previously edited Latin American Perspectives Monographs with 24 titles for Westview Press (1980-2000).\n\nChilcote is the author of over 200 academic publications, including books, book chapters, and peer-reviewed journal articles, with emphasis on comparative politics, political economy, and development economics. He was one of the earliest U.S. scholars to assess Latin American dependency theory, as in his lead article in the first issue of \"Latin American Perspectives\", “Dependency: A Critical Synthesis of the Literature.” He also edited and/or contributed to several additional LAP issues on the subject. His work on dependency includes the book, \"Latin America: The Struggle with Dependency and Beyond\" (1974), edited with his student and colleague Joel Edelstein, which was extensively used as a college text and went through eight printings. His \"Theories of Comparative Politics\" was for two decades a leading book for advanced graduate study in the United States and elsewhere, and he wrote two major books on comparative political economy as well as an anthology of retrospective essays on imperialism.\n\nChilcote is recognized for his scholarship on Brazil, Portugal, and the former Portuguese colonies in Africa, all of which he has visited extensively in the course of his research. His pioneering work on Lusophone Africa during the 1960s provided a foundation for an African perspective critical of the Portuguese presence in Angola, Mozambique, Guinea-Bissau, and Cape Verde. He published a book on the African revolutionary, Amílcar Cabral, who inspired and led the independence movements. He has written four major books on Brazil, three of them translated and appearing in Portuguese. His 2010 book \"The Portuguese Revolution: State and Class in the Transition to Democracy\" culminates decades of research to analyze the 1974–1975 Portuguese revolution and its aftermath through periods of authoritarianism and resistance as well as representative and popular democracy. His 2014 book \"Intellectuals and the Search for National Identity in Twentieth Century Brazil\" likewise draws on his decades of research in Brazil and the relationships he developed with Brazilian intellectuals, more than one hundred of whom were interviewed for the book.\n\nHis work has appeared in Brazilian, Malaysian, Korean, Chinese, Russian, and Iranian editions.\n\nFor his scholarship, Chilcote received three Fulbright awards, two Social Science Research Council grants, Organization of American States and Mellon-SOCCIS Latin American Fellowships, and Rockefeller and Ford Foundation grants.\n\nChilcote donated more than 12,000 books and other research materials to the UCR library to establish the Ronald H. Chilcote collection on the politics, economy, and history of Latin America, Portugal, and Portuguese-speaking Africa. Highlights include rare books and periodicals on Brazilian left movements; approximately four thousand literary pamphlets of social poetry, drawn from the singing and writing of troubadours (Cordel); books, ephemera, and research, including written and audio interviews, on Northeast Brazil, in particular its hinterland or sertão; books and pamphlets on the Portuguese revolution of 1974-1975 and its aftermath, including audio interviews and transcripts with participants; comprehensive writings by and about the revolutionary, Amílcar Cabral; pamphlets, leaflets, films, and newspaper clippings on Central American political and resistance movements as well as covert and overt cases of intervention in Latin America; audio cassettes, videotapes, and books on the Iran-Contra Affair; and materials on the Southern Cone, especially Chile.\n\nIn 2000, Chilcote placed the complete archives of Latin American Perspectives, including all manuscripts submitted, publication decisions, editorial board minutes, annual reports and other working documents, in the UCR Library and recruited additional donations from other scholars.\n\nTo facilitate use of all these materials and other Latin American resources at the UCR library, Chilcote led the effort to establish an endowment to fund the \"Latin American Perspectives\" Visiting Scholar Fellowship to bring scholars from outside the United States to the library for a research residency of several weeks to two months. Since 2007 there have been six recipients.\n\nAn active environmentalist, Chilcote has also been deeply involved in conservation and wilderness protection campaigns, especially in California and Wyoming. Since 1974 he has served as a board director of Laguna Greenbelt that was able to preserve twenty-two thousand acres of land in a rapidly urbanizing area of Southern California. He has combined this environmental activism with his work as a landscape and nature photographer. To use photography to promote the preservation of pristine environments, with the late Jerry Burchfield he founded Laguna Wilderness Press, which since 2003 has published 13 books of photography including three with his own work. \"Nature's Laguna Wilderness\" includes 80 color photographs of this area he helped to preserve; the book received a five-page review in a Sunday section of the \"Los Angeles Times\", and in 2014 it was published in a completely revised and expanded edition. \"Wind River Wilderness\" features photos and text on Wyoming's Wind River Range, Wyoming Range, Upper Hoback and Gros Ventre Range, and Red Desert with photos by Chilcote and several other photographers. A third book, \"Wild Wyoming Range Wilderness\", appeared in early 2013. Book sales helped raise some of the $8.4 million used to save a pristine area from development when the Trust for Public Land announced a buyback of oil and gas leases. Since 1998 Chilcote's photographs have been exhibited at many art galleries in Southern California and Wyoming, including a retrospective of 60 of his photographs of the Laguna Wilderness which were shown at the Founders Gallery of Soka University of America from January to August 2012.\n\nHe combined his interest in photography with his love for Latin America by editing and publishing \"At the Hour of Combat: Sabino Osuna's Photographs of the Mexican Revolution\". The book features dramatic black and white previously unpublished photographs of the revolution during the 1908-1922 period. It was previewed at the 2012 LASA Congress but was formally launched in August, followed by his co-curated exhibition of 56 prints from the Osuna archive which opened November 10, 2012, at the California Museum of Photography in Riverside. The exhibit has moved to various university campuses, especially where Latin American studies programs are prominent, has been shown in Mexico, and will ultimately be permanently exhibited at the UC Casa de California in Mexico City.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13145330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13145330", "title": "Santa Special", "text": "Santa Special\n\nA Santa Special is a special Christmas rail service, common on heritage steam railways (or sometimes on mainline railways, as is done by the RPSI in Ireland), where children are given the opportunity to meet \"Santa Claus\".\n\nThe revenues derived from Santa Specials make an important contribution to the finances of the railways as they attract large numbers of families during the off-peak winter period.\nCommon features of Santa Special services are \n\n\n"}
{"id": "12788933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12788933", "title": "Sholem Aleichem Amur State University", "text": "Sholem Aleichem Amur State University\n\nSholem Aleichem Amur State University (), formerly Birobidzhan State Pedagogical Institute, is a university in Russia. This is the only university based in the Jewish Autonomous Oblast. It is named after Jewish-Russian author Sholem Aleichem.\n\nThe university works in cooperation with the local Jewish community of Birobidzhan and the Birobidzhan Synagogue. It is unique in the Russian Far East. The basis of the training courses is study of the Hebrew language, history and classic Jewish texts.\n\nIn recent years, the Jewish Autonomous Oblast has grown interest in its Jewish roots. Students study Hebrew and Yiddish at the Jewish school and Birobidzhan Jewish National University. In 1989, the Jewish Center founded a Sunday school, where children can study Yiddish, learn Jewish folk dance, and history of Israel. The Israeli government helps fund this program.\n\nIn 2007, the first Birobidzhan International Summer Program for Yiddish Language and Culture was launched by Boris Kotlerman, a Yiddish studies professor at Bar-Ilan University. Yiddish is still the region’s second official language after Russian, although it is spoken only by a handful of 4,000 remaining Jews. This program includes a workshop on the village of Valdgeym and its Yiddish heritage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37181554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37181554", "title": "Sixteenth Century Journal", "text": "Sixteenth Century Journal\n\nThe Sixteenth Century Journal: The Journal of Early Modern Studies (SCJ) is a quarterly journal of early modern studies. The senior editors are Raymond B. Waddington and Merry Wiesner-Hanks. It is published by Truman State University Press, and supported by the Sixteenth Century Society and Conference.\n\n\"SCJ\" was founded in 1969, and has been at Truman State University since 1971. It was initially a biannual journal, and moved to quarterly publication in 1976.\n"}
{"id": "49332474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49332474", "title": "The Group (New Zealand art)", "text": "The Group (New Zealand art)\n\nThe Group was an informal but highly influential art association formed in Christchurch, New Zealand in 1927. Initially begun by ex-students from Canterbury College of Art, its aim was to provide a freer, more experimental alternative to the academic salon painting exhibitions of the Canterbury Society of Arts. The Group exhibited annually for 50 years, from 1927 to 1977, and was continuously at the forefront of New Zealand art's avant-garde scene.\n\nMany of the country's best-known artists were associated at some time with The Group, among them Colin McCahon, Doris Lusk, Toss Woollaston, Rita Angus, Olivia Spencer Bower, Leo Bensemann, Rata Lovell-Smith, Philip Trusttum, and Douglas MacDiarmid. The influence of The Group extended into other areas of New Zealand culture through the collaborations and friendship of members with the likes of writer and editor Charles Brasch and composer Douglas Lilburn. Its influence was such that it is occasionally referred to as \"Bloomsbury South\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22651660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22651660", "title": "Tom Tillemans", "text": "Tom Tillemans\n\nT. J. F. (Tom) Tillemans (born Haarlem, December 21, 1950) is a Dutch-Canadian Buddhologist, Indologist and Tibetologist. Since 1992, Tillemans has been Professor of Buddhology in the Faculty of Oriental Languages and Civilizations at the University of Lausanne in Switzerland.\n\nTom Tillemans received his bachelor's degree at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. His masters, in Sanskrit, Chinese and philosophy, he received at the Universities of Lausanne and Geneva and his doctorate in Buddhist Studies in Lausanne.\n\nAfter his studies he did research at Hiroshima University in Japan and was invited to several universities as a visiting professor. In addition to his professorship in Lausanne as head of the department of Oriental Studies and Associate Dean for the Faculty of Arts Tillemans does research on Indian and Tibetan Buddhist logic and epistemology, Madhyamaka philosophy, indigenous Tibetan literature, and Tibetan grammar and poetry.\n\nDuring the spring semester 2010, Tillemans is giving a lecture entitled \"L'éthique dans la pensée bouddhique\" at the University of Lausanne.\n\n\n09.04.2007\n2\n\n12) 1988b. «Some Reflections on R.S.Y. Chi's Buddhist Formal Logic», Journal of the International Association of Buddhist Studies Vol. 11, no. 1, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana, 1988, pp. 155–171.\n\n14) 1989b. «Formal and Semantic Aspects of Tibetan Buddhist Debate Logic», Journal of Indian Philosophy 17, 1989, pp. 265–297.\n\n16) 1991a. «Dharmakīrti on Some Sophisms», in E. Steinkellner (ed.), Studies in the Buddhist Epistemological Tradition. Proceedings of the Second International Dharmakīrti Conference Vienna, June 11–16, 1989. Österreichische Akademie der Wissenschaften, Philosophisch-Historische Klasse, Beiträge zur Kultur- und Geistesgeschichte Asiens 8. Vienna : Verlag der Österreichische Akademie der Wissenschaften. pp. 403–418.\n\n09.04.2007\n3\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56135", "title": "Touchstone (assaying tool)", "text": "Touchstone (assaying tool)\n\nA touchstone is a small tablet of dark stone such as fieldstone, slate, or lydite, used for assaying precious metal alloys. It has a finely grained surface on which soft metals leave a visible trace.\n\nThe touchstone was used by the Indus Valley Civilization about 3500 BC for testing the purity of soft metals.\nIt was also used in Ancient Greece.\n\nDrawing a line with gold on a touchstone will leave a visible trace. Because different alloys of gold have different colours (see gold) the unknown sample can be compared to samples of known purity. This method has been used since ancient times. In modern times, additional tests can be done. The trace will react in different ways to specific concentrations of nitric acid or aqua regia, thereby identifying the quality of the gold. Thus, 24 carat gold is not affected but 14 carat gold will show chemical activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "5398365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5398365", "title": "Treehouse of Horror", "text": "Treehouse of Horror\n\nTreehouse of Horror, also known as \"The Simpsons\" Halloween specials, are a series of Halloween specials within the animated series \"The Simpsons\", each consisting of three separate, self-contained segments. These segments usually involve the Simpson family in some horror, science fiction, or supernatural setting. They take place outside the show's normal continuity and completely abandon any pretense of being realistic, being known for their far more violent and much darker nature than an average \"Simpsons\" episode. The first, entitled \"Treehouse of Horror\", aired on October 25, 1990, as part of the second season and was inspired by EC Comics horror tales. Since then, there have been 28 other \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes, with one airing every year.\n\nEpisodes contain parodies of horror, science fiction and fantasy films, as well as the alien characters Kang and Kodos, a special version of the opening sequence, and \"scary names\" in the credits. The show's staff regard the \"Treehouse of Horror\" as being particularly difficult to produce, as the scripts often go through many rewrites, and the animators typically have to design new characters and backgrounds.\n\nMany of the episodes are popular among fans and critics of the show and have inspired a whole offshoot of \"Simpsons\" merchandise, including action figures, playsets, video games, books, DVDs, comic books and a special version of \"Monopoly\". Several of the episodes have won awards for animation and sound editing. In 1996, 2013, and 2015, \"Treehouse of Horror VI\", \"Treehouse of Horror XXIII\" and \"Treehouse of Horror XXV\" were respectively nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award in the \"Outstanding Animated Program (for Programming Less Than One Hour)\" category.\n\n\"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes typically consist of four parts: an opening and Halloween-themed version of the credits, followed by three segments. These segments usually have a horror, science fiction or fantasy theme and quite often are parodies of films, novels, plays, television shows, \"Twilight Zone\" episodes, or old issues of EC Comics. Although they are sometimes connected by \"wraparounds\", the three segments rarely have any kind of continuing connection within the episode. The two exceptions are \"Treehouse of Horror V\", in which Groundskeeper Willie is killed by an axe in a similar fashion in all three segments, as well as in Treehouse of Horror XXVIII, in which Maggie is possessed by the demon Pazuzu in the first segment and is still recovering in the next segment. The episodes are considered to be non-canon and always take place outside the normal continuity of the show, since each character appears to be fine afterwards.\n\nFrom \"Treehouse of Horror\" to \"Treehouse of Horror XIII\", all three segments were written by different writers. In some cases there was a fourth writer who wrote the opening and wraparound segments. For the original \"Treehouse of Horror\", there were three different directors for the episode. Starting with season 15's \"Treehouse of Horror XIV\", however, only one writer has been credited with writing each \"Treehouse of Horror\" episode.\n\nOn occasion, the episodes will be used to showcase special animation, such as the \"Treehouse of Horror VI\" segment \"Homer\", in which a computer-animated Homer is shown in a non-animated setting. At the time (1995), it was groundbreaking, as it was unusual for a television show to use such animation. The segment was executive producer Bill Oakley's idea and included live action directed by David Mirkin. \"Treehouse of Horror XX\" included the segment \"There's No Business Like Moe Business\", which was the first to be musically-themed.\n\nEvery \"Treehouse of Horror\" episode opens with a special introductory segment. The first, second and fifth \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes open with Marge standing on a stage and warning parents about the content of the episode, advising them to put their children to bed. The warning in the first episode was put in as a sincere effort to warn young viewers, as the producers felt it was somewhat scary. The entire segment was a parody of the opening of the 1931 film \"Frankenstein\". Marge's warnings quickly became a burden to write. After \"Treehouse of Horror V\", they were permanently dropped and the writers did not make any attempts at reviving them.\n\nOther \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes have opened with parodies; for example, \"Treehouse of Horror III\" had Homer introduce the episode in a manner similar to Alfred Hitchcock in \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\", \"Treehouse of Horror IV\" had Bart introduce the episode and segments in a manner similar to \"Night Gallery\", and \"Treehouse of Horror V\" featured a parody of \"The Outer Limits\". The sixth and seventh episodes featured short clips with no lines because the episodes had run long and longer segments were cut. Following \"Treehouse of Horror VII\", the opening has been upwards of a minute long and sometimes featured an introduction by a character, such as Mr. Burns in \"Treehouse of Horror XVII\" or included over-the-top violence, such as \"Treehouse of Horror VIII\" (which showed a Fox Network censor being brutally murdered) and \"Treehouse of Horror XIV\" (which showed the Simpson family killing each other).\n\nIn the opening segment of the first five episodes, the camera zooms through a cemetery where tombstones with humorous epitaphs can be seen. These messages include the names of canceled shows from the previous season, deceased celebrities such as Walt Disney and Jim Morrison and a tombstone with an inscription that read \"TV violence\" that was riddled with bullets as the camera panned on it. They were last used in \"Treehouse of Horror V\", which included a solitary tombstone with the words \"Amusing Tombstones\" to signal this. The tombstone gags were easy for the writers in the first episode, but like Marge's warnings, they eventually got more difficult to write, so they were abandoned. Another reason they were dropped was that the tombstones would list television shows that had been canceled the previous season; after a few years, several of the shows that were canceled were produced by former \"Simpsons\" writers. However after two decades, this gag made a brief comeback in Treehouse of Horror XXIX at the very beginning, this time appearing before the main opening sequence and title. \n\nWhile the early \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes featured a Halloween themed opening sequence, the later ones only included the title and the \"created by\" and \"developed by\" credits. Every episode between \"Treehouse of Horror II\" and \"Treehouse of Horror X\" featured a couch gag with a Halloween theme, including the Simpson family dressed as skeletons, zombies and characters from previous Halloween episodes.\n\nThe first four \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes had brief wraparounds that occurred before each segment and loosely tied together all three stories. \"Treehouse of Horror\" was the only one that actually included a treehouse as a setting. In that episode, Bart and Lisa sat in it telling stories to each other. \"Treehouse of Horror II\" presented all of the segments as being nightmares of Lisa, Bart and Homer; \"Treehouse of Horror III\" had Lisa, Bart and Grampa telling stories at a Halloween party; and \"Treehouse of Horror IV\" is presented by Bart in a parody of Rod Serling's \"Night Gallery\". After a few years, the amount of broadcast time for an episode was shortened, allowing less time to tell a proper story. There were no wraparounds for \"Treehouse of Horror V\" because they had been cut to make more time for the segments. Following that, the writers permanently dropped them.\n\nTwo characters that are virtually exclusive to the \"Treehouse of Horror\" series are Kang and Kodos, a pair of large green space aliens who were introduced in the \"Hungry are the Damned\" segment of \"Treehouse of Horror\". Kang and Kodos have since appeared in every \"Treehouse of Horror\" episode, sometimes as important parts of a story, but often just for brief cameos. In some episodes, they only appear in the opening segment, but often they will make a cameo appearance in the middle of a different story. For example, a story about zombies attacking the town briefly cuts to them in their space ship, watching the events and laughing maniacally at the Earthlings' suffering. The action then switches back to the actual story. The unofficial rule is that they must be in every episode, although quite often they will be forgotten and are added at the last moment, resulting in only a brief appearance. Their scene in \"Treehouse of Horror VIII\" nearly did not make the final cut of the episode, but David X. Cohen managed to persuade the producers to leave the scene in.\n\nKang and Kodos were prominent characters in the 2015 episode \"The Man Who Came to Be Dinner,\" which was not Halloween themed.\n\nBeginning with \"Treehouse of Horror II\", the producers decided to give the cast and crew of the show \"scary names\" in the opening and closing credits. Although the names quickly became more silly than scary, there have been a wide variety of special credits, from simple names like \"Bat Groening\" to complex ones like \"David²+S.²=Cohen²\". Sam Simon, who left the show during the fourth season but still receives \"developed by\" and \"executive producer\" credits, has ever since been listed in \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes as \"Sam 'Sayonara' Simon\". Since his death in 2015 he has been credited simply by his real name.\n\nThe idea for \"scary names\" came from executive producer Al Jean, who was inspired by EC Comics because some of the issues also used \"scary\" alternate names. The \"scary names\" became such a burden to write that they were cut for \"Treehouse of Horror XII\" and \"Treehouse of Horror XIII\", but after hearing complaints from the fans, Jean decided to bring them back. Matt Groening's rule for the \"scary names\" is that they cannot be longer than a person's real name, but this is rarely followed by anyone else.\n\nReferences to films, novels, plays, television shows and other media are commonly featured, and many segments have been parodies of a specific work in the horror, science fiction or fantasy genre. Many segments are spoofs of episodes of \"The Twilight Zone\" and entire segments will be based on a single episode. Some of the \"Twilight Zone\" episodes parodied include \"A Kind of a Stopwatch\", \"To Serve Man\", \"A Small Talent for War\", \"Living Doll\", \"Nightmare at 20,000 Feet\", \"Little Girl Lost\", and \"The Little People\". The \"Bart's Nightmare\" segment of \"Treehouse of Horror II\" parodies the episode \"It's a Good Life\" and is even presented in a format similar to an episode of \"The Twilight Zone\". The Halloween episodes also regularly parody horror and thriller films such as \"The Exorcist\", \"The Amityville Horror\", \"King Kong\", \"Night of the Living Dead\", \"The Shining\", \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\", \"The Fly\", \"Psycho\", \"Paranormal Activity\", and \"Dead Calm\". Robert Englund, who portrays Freddy Krueger in the \"Nightmare on Elm street\" franchise, had a cameo appearance in \"Treehouse of Horror IX\" as the character. Science fiction films have also occasionally been used as inspiration for segments, and in later episodes many of the segments were based more on science fiction than horror. Science fiction works parodied include \"The Omega Man\", the novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\" and Orson Welles's \"The War of the Worlds\" radio broadcast. In \"Treehouse of Horror\", Edgar Allan Poe's poem \"The Raven\" is read by James Earl Jones while the parts are acted by various characters. Recent parodies have included films and television specials in more varied genres, including \"Mr. & Mrs. Smith\", \"It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown\", \"Transformers\", \"Sweeney Todd\", the \"Twilight\" film series, and \"Jumanji\".\n\nA modified version of the production logo for Gracie Films is displayed after the closing credits. The shushing sound is replaced by a scream, and the jingle is played in a minor key on a pipe organ.\n\nThe first \"Treehouse of Horror\" episode aired in 1990 as part of the second season, and its on-screen title was \"The Simpsons Halloween Special.\" It was inspired by EC Comics Horror tales. Although every episode is entitled \"Treehouse of Horror\", the first one was the only episode that actually used the treehouse motif. During production of the first episode, Matt Groening was nervous about \"The Raven\" segment, and felt it would be \"the worst, most pretentious thing [they had] ever done.\"\n\nThe \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes are difficult for both the writers and the animators. The episodes were originally written at the beginning of the production run, but in later seasons they were written at the end and aired at the beginning of the next season as holdovers, giving the animators more time to work. Part of the difficulty for the animators is that the episodes always involve many complex backgrounds, new characters, and new designs. They are difficult for the writers because they must produce three stories, an opening and, in the early episodes, a wraparound. They would have to try to fit all of this into a 20–22 minute episode. The episodes often go through many last minute changes, with rewrites requiring new lines to be recorded. \"Treehouse of Horror III\" in particular underwent somewhere between 80 and 100 line changes in the six-week period between the arrival of the animation from Korea and the airing of the episode. By the fourth season, executive producers Al Jean and Mike Reiss were less enamored of \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes and considered dropping them, but the other writers insisted that they be kept.\n\nPart of the attraction for the writers is that they are able to break the rules and include violence that would not make a regular episode. In some cases, the writers will have an idea that is too violent and far-fetched or too short for a normal episode, but can be used as a segment in the seasonal special. Several of the writers, former executive producer David Mirkin among them, believe that the episodes should be scary and not just funny. \"Treehouse of Horror V\" has been described by Mirkin as being one of \"the most intense, disturbing Halloween show ever\" as it was filled with violence and gore in response to new censorship rules. Earlier \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes began with Marge issuing a disclaimer that \"if you have sensitive children, maybe you should tuck them into bed early tonight instead of writing us angry letters tomorrow.\" However, these episodes seem mild compared to the carnage that followed in later episodes, according to Jean, who calls it \"a societal thing\". He points out that his 10-year-old daughter loves films like \"Coraline\", and that, \"[in] the age of scary stories [...] appropriateness has gotten lower.\"\n\nAlthough gruesome for the most part, some segments, such as \"Citizen Kang\" in \"Treehouse of Horror VII\", satirize political issues. The opening segment of \"Treehouse of Horror XIX\" featured Homer attempting to vote for Barack Obama but a rigged electronic voting machine instead registers a vote for John McCain. Rather than taking sides in the election, Al Jean says it is \"mostly a comment on what many people to believe to be the irregularities in our voting system.\"[sic]\"\" In \"Treehouse of Horror XVII\", a segment called \"The Day the Earth Looked Stupid\" ends with Kang and Kodos taking over Springfield as part of a mission called \"Operation: Enduring occupation\". The script originally called for Kodos and Kang to look over the smoking ruins of Springfield and say \"This sure is a lot like Iraq will be.\" The Fox network did not have any objection to the line, but it was rejected by some of the writers as too obvious and was cut from broadcast. While cut from the aired version, the line does appear in the \"review\" version sent to newspapers and magazines.\n\nThe first \"Treehouse of Horror\" episode was the first time that an alternate version of the theme that airs over the end credits was used. Originally it was supposed to use a theremin, but one could not be found that could hit all the necessary notes. Usually when the producers submit an episode for the Primetime Emmy Award for \"Outstanding Individual Achievement in Music Composition for a Series (Dramatic Underscore)\", they submit a Treehouse of Horror episode, and to date, seven episodes have been nominated. The closing of \"Treehouse of Horror IV\" features a version of the theme that is a combination of the instruments used in \"The Munsters\" theme song and the harpiscord and clicking from the \"Addams Family\" theme song.\n\nÜter Zörker is so far the only human character introduced in a Treehouse of Horror episode to make it into the canon. His debut episode was \"Treehouse of Horror IV\" in the segment \"Terror at Feet\". He is an obese German exchange student obsessed with candy and is voiced by Russi Taylor.\n\nExecutive producer Al Jean revealed that 2019's \"Treehouse of Horror\" will be the 666th episode of \"The Simpsons \"series. Jean stated that this was planned ever since the show began airing in 1989.\n\nAlthough \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes are Halloween-themed, for several years new episodes premiered in November following the holiday, due to Fox's coverage of Major League Baseball's World Series. Season 12's \"Treehouse of Horror XI\" was the first episode to air in November. There have been several references to this in the show, such as in \"Treehouse of Horror XIV\" where Kang looks at a \"TV Guide\" and says, \"Pathetic humans. They're showing a Halloween episode... in November!\" and Kodos replies \"Who's still thinking about Halloween? We've already got our Christmas decoration up.\" The camera then cuts to a shot of the fireplace with Christmas decorations, and festive Christmas music plays over the opening credits. Season 21's \"Treehouse of Horror XX\" aired October 18, before the World Series, but the following year's episode, \"Treehouse of Horror XXI\", aired in November. Season 23's \"Treehouse of Horror XXII aired on October 30, however, as the World Series (which went the maximum of seven games) had concluded on October 28. Subsequent \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes have premiered in the month of October.\n\nThere has been a variety of merchandise based on the \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes, including books, action figures, comic books, video games, DVDs and a \"Treehouse of Horror\" version of Hasbro's board game Monopoly. Although every \"Treehouse of Horror\" episode until \"Treehouse of Horror XVI\" has been released along with its season in a boxset, in 2003, \"The Simpsons: Treehouse of Horror DVD\" was released. It includes \"Treehouse of Horror\"s V, VI, VII and XII. A \"Treehouse of Horror\" comic book has been published annually since 1995, and collected into several books, including \"The Simpsons Treehouse of Horror Fun-Filled Frightfest\", \"Bart Simpson's Treehouse of Horror Spine-Tingling Spooktacular\", \"Bart Simpson's Treehouse of Horror Heebie-Jeebie Hullabaloo\" and \"The Simpsons Treehouse of Horror Hoodoo Voodoo Brouhaha\". Several video games based on \"The Simpsons\" include levels with a Halloween theme, including \"\" and \"The Simpsons Game\". In 2001, Fox Interactive and THQ released \"\" on Game Boy Color. The entire game has a Halloween theme as the player tries to save the Simpson family from the Treehouse of Horror.\n\nMany of the special character designs featured in the episodes have become action figures. Four different playsets have been made by Playmates Toys and released as Toys \"R\" Us exclusives. The sets are:\n\nAfter the Playmates Toys sets were finished, McFarlane Toys produced four \"Treehouse of Horror\" themed playsets including the \"Ironic Punishment Box Set\" released in 2004, the \"In the Belly of the Boss — Homer & Marge Action Figures\" released in 2005, \"The Island of Dr. Hibbert Box Set\" released in 2006, and a \"Lard Lad Box Set\" released in 2007.\n\nThe \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes are often among the top-rated episodes of their seasons and many of the \"Treehouse of Horror\"s have generally been well-received by fans. However, like \"The Simpsons\" itself, critics have noted a decline in the quality of the later episodes. In its first airing, \"Treehouse of Horror\" finished with a 15.7 Nielsen rating and a 25% audience share and would lose to \"The Cosby Show\". It was said that it \"set a level of excellence that viewers never expected creator Matt Groening to repeat\", although it was also described as \"kind of stupid and unsatisfying\". \"Treehouse of Horror V\" is considered the best episode by several critics: it finished ninth on \"Entertainment Weekly\"'s top 25 \"The Simpsons\" episode list, fifth on AskMen.com's \"Top 10: Simpsons Episodes\" list, and was named best episode of the sixth season by IGN.com. In 2006, James Earl Jones, who guest starred in \"Treehouse of Horror\" and \"Treehouse of Horror V\" was named seventh on IGN's \"Top 25 Simpsons Guest Appearances\" list.\n\nIn 2006, IGN.com published a list of the top ten \"Treehouse of Horror\" segments, and they placed \"The Shinning\" from \"Treehouse of Horror V\" at the top, saying it was \"not only a standout installment of the annual Halloween episode, but of \"The Simpsons\", period.\" Rounding out the list were \"Dial \"Z\" for Zombies\", \"The Devil and Homer Simpson\", \"Time and Punishment\", \"Hungry Are the Damned\", \"Clown Without Pity\", \"Citizen Kang\", \"If I Only Had a Brain\", \"Bart Simpson's Dracula\" and \"Starship Poopers\". The third, fourth and fifth episodes were each represented by two segments. The most recent episode on the list was \"Treehouse of Horror IX\", which first aired in 1998.\n\n\"Treehouse of Horror VII\" is \"Simpsons\" creator Matt Groening's seventh favorite episode, and the line he likes best is \"We have reached the limit of what rectal probing can teach us.\" \"King Homer\" of \"Treehouse of Horror III\" is one of Matt Groening's favorite segments. \"Treehouse of Horror III\" is also noted for the moment where Homer shoots Ned Flanders and Bart says \"Dad, you killed the Zombie Flanders!\" only for Homer to reply, \"He was a zombie?\" It is also one of Groening's favorite lines.\n\nIn 1996, the \"Homer³\" segment of \"Treehouse of Horror VI\" was awarded the Ottawa International Animation Festival grand prize. In 1998, \"Treehouse of Horror VIII\" won a Golden Reel Award for \"Best Sound Editing – Television Animated Specials\"; the recipients were Robert Mackston, Travis Powers, Norm MacLeod and Terry Greene. Bob Beecher also received a nomination for \"Best Sound Editing in Television Animation – Music\" for \"Treehouse of Horror X\".\n\nThe second, third, fifth, eighth, ninth, fourteenth and fifteenth and eighteenth \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes were nominated for \"Outstanding Individual Achievement in Music Composition for a Series (Dramatic Underscore)\" at the Primetime Emmy Awards. The second and third \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes were also nominated for \"Outstanding Individual Achievement in Sound Mixing for a Comedy Series or a Special\". In 1996, \"Treehouse of Horror VI\" was submitted for the Primetime Emmy Award in the \"Outstanding Animated Program (For Programming less than One Hour)\" category because it had a 3D animation sequence, which the staff felt would have given it the edge. The episode failed to win and Bill Oakley later expressed regret about submitting the episode. The twenty-third and twenty-fifth \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes were nominated for the same award in 2013 and 2015 respectively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4723866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4723866", "title": "Tuttle Publishing", "text": "Tuttle Publishing\n\nTuttle Publishing, originally the Charles E. Tuttle Company, is a book publishing company that includes Tuttle, Periplus Editions, and Journey Editions. A company profile describes it as an \"International publisher of innovative books on design, cooking, martial arts, language, travel and spirituality with a focus on China, Japan and South East Asia.\" Many of its books on Asian martial arts, particularly those on Japanese martial arts, were the first widely read publications on these subjects in the English language.\n\nPublisher and book dealer Charles E. Tuttle (1915–1993) founded the company in 1948 in Tokyo, Japan, with the aim of publishing \"books to span the East and West.\" It was the 31st corporation approved by the occupying Allied administration. In its first year of operation, the company imported and distributed U.S. paperback publications to the occupying forces, and the next year, it released its first publication. From 1951, it published many books on the Japanese language, arts, and culture, as well as translations of Japanese works into the English language.\n\nIn 1953, part of the company was separated to form a new, partially owned company, Yohan, which took on responsibility for distributing U.S. paperback books and magazines. The Charles E. Tuttle Company retained responsibility for distributing UK publications. In 1991, under chief executive Peter Ackroyd, a planned acquisition of the Atlantic Monthly Press failed to eventuate. According to executives, \"Tuttle, which specializes in Japanese and other Asian books, came to feel that it was putting its existing business at risk by acquiring Atlantic.\" In 1996, the company changed its name to Tuttle Publishing.\n\nSince its founding, Tuttle has published more than 6,000 books and today maintains an active backlist of around 2,000 titles. The company now produces 150 new titles each year, most of which still focus on the areas of Asian interest that Tuttle has long been known for—everything from Asian literature and language learning to cooking, art, crafts, and design.\n\nThe company’s founder, Charles Egbert Tuttle, Jr., was a graduate of Phillips Exeter Academy and Harvard University. He enlisted in the U.S. military and was stationed in Japan immediately after World War II, working on General Douglas MacArthur’s staff. His job, among other things, was to help revive the Japanese publishing industry after the war. After his military service was completed, he decided to stay on in Japan and set up his own business importing English-language books and magazines and exporting rare Japanese antiquarian books to U.S. libraries.\n\nTuttle came from a distinguished New England publishing family. His father ran Tuttle Antiquarian Books—one of several Tuttle companies in Rutland, Vermont, that had been involved with printing and publishing since the 1830s. At university, he studied American history and literature. After graduating in 1937, he worked in the library of Columbia University for a year, then joined the family business. His interest in publishing 'quality' books about Japan and Asia, and his keen eye for design and editorial matters as a publisher, grew out of an appreciation for the valuable antiquarian books that he dealt with as a youth.\n\nTuttle's current publisher and CEO is Singapore resident Eric Oey. Oey is a nephew of Charles E. Tuttle.\n\nAccording to UNESCO (2002, 2007), Tuttle Publishing is the most active publisher of books teaching Japanese to the English-speaking world, and English to the Japanese-speaking world. The company has also published books on Tagalog. The company publishes more than 40 products that teach Chinese, 20 that teach Korean, 20 for Indonesian, and numerous products on other Asian languages such as Burmese, Cambodian, Lao, Malay, Thai, and Vietnamese. Tuttle published its first Arabic phrasebook in 2004 and, in 2009, its first introduction to Modern Standard Hindi.\n\nIn 2010, out of the company's top 20 best-selling books, 11 were martial arts titles. Tuttle Publishing had estimated annual sales of $2.5–$5 million U.S., and a staff of around 40 people. It had offices in North Clarendon (in Vermont, USA), Singapore, Tokyo, and Jakarta. Leading officers are in the U.S. are Michael Sargent (General Manager), David Loseby (Finance Executive), and Christopher Johns (Sales & Marketing Director).\n\nIn September, 2012, Tuttle announced that it would move its fulfillment operation to Simon & Schuster, resulting in the layoff of 16 employees in its Vermont operation. By late 2013, subsequent departures left a staff of 18.\n\n\na. This is not the same person as the British author by the same name.\n\n"}
{"id": "14492741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14492741", "title": "Vowel diagram", "text": "Vowel diagram\n\nA vowel diagram or vowel chart is a schematic arrangement of the vowels. Depending on the particular language being discussed, it can take the form of a triangle or a quadrilateral. Vertical position on the diagram denotes the vowel closeness, with close vowels at the top of the diagram, and horizontal position denotes the vowel backness, with front vowels at the left of the diagram. Vowels are unique in that their main features do not contain differences in voicing, manner, or place (articulators). Vowels differ only in the position of the tongue when voiced. The tongue moves vertically and horizontally within the oral cavity. Vowels are produced with at least a part of their vocal tract obstructed. \n\nIn the vowel diagram, convenient reference points are provided for specifying tongue position. The position of the highest point of the arch of the tongue is considered to be the point of articulation of the vowel. The vertical dimension of the vowel diagram is known as vowel high, which includes high, central (mid), or low vowels. The horizontal dimension of the vowel diagram includes tongue advancement and identifies how far forward the tongue is located in the oral cavity during production. Vowels are also categorized by the tenseness or laxness of the tongue. The schwa [ə] is in the center of the chart and is frequently referred to as the neutral vowel. Here, the vocal tract is in its neutral state and creates a near perfect tube. For other vowels, there is a necessary movement of the vocal tract and tongue away from the neutral position, either up/down or backward/forward. The next dimension for vowels are tense/lax; here we can distinguish high/mid/low dimensions and the front/central/back dimensions. In other words, all vowels but schwas. For instance, [i] and [ɪ] or [o] and [ɔ] are very hard to tell apart, but we can categorize them into tense or lax. Tense vowels are [i] and [o] . Lax vowels are [ɪ] and [ɔ]. The next dimension of vowels is rounding. Rounding is important because it continues to help differentiate the vowels of English. For example, for [u], the lips are rounded, but for [i], the lips are spread. Vowels can be categorized as rounded or unrounded. Rounded vowels are [u], [ʊ], [o], [ɔ] and the unrounded vowels are [i], [ɪ], [e], [ɛ], [æ], [ɑ], [ʌ], [ə].\n\nThe vowel systems of most languages can be represented by vowel diagrams. Usually, there is a pattern of even distribution of marks on the chart, a phenomenon that is known as vowel dispersion. For most languages, the vowel system is triangular. Only 10% of languages, including English, have a vowel diagram that is quadrilateral. Such a diagram is called a vowel quadrilateral or a vowel trapezium. \n\nDifferent vowels vary in pitch. For example, high vowels, such as [i] and [u], tend to have a higher fundamental frequency than low vowels, such as [a]. Vowels are distinct from one another by their acoustic form or spectral properties. Spectral properties are the speech sound's fundamental frequency and its formants.\n\nEach vowel in the vowel diagram has a unique first and second formant, or F1 and F2. The frequency of the first formant refers to the width of the pharyngeal cavity and the position of the tongue on a vertical axis and ranges from open to close. The frequency of the second formant refers to the length of the oral cavity and the position of the tongue on a horizontal axis. [i], [u], [a] are often referred to as point vowels because they represent the most extreme F1 and F2 frequencies. [a] has a high F1 frequency because of the narrow size of the pharynx and the low position of the tongue. The F2 frequency is higher for [i] because the oral cavity is short and the tongue is at the front of the mouth. The F2 frequency is low in the production of [u] because the mouth is elongated and the lips are rounded while the pharynx is lowered.\n\nThe IPA vowel chart has the cardinal vowels and is displayed in the form of a trapezium. By definition, no vowel sound can be plotted outside of the IPA trapezium because its four corners represent the extreme points of articulation. \n\nThe vowel diagrams of most real languages are not so extreme. In English, for example, high vowels are not as high as the corners of the IPA trapezium, and front vowels are not as front.\n\nVowel symbols with diacritics added are not included in the official vowel chart of the International Phonetic Alphabet. The term \"mid\" does not appear on the official chart.\n\n"}
{"id": "39294629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39294629", "title": "White Caribbeans", "text": "White Caribbeans\n\nWhite Caribbeans or European Caribbeans are people who are born in the Caribbean whose ancestors are from Europe or people who immigrated to the Caribbean from Europe and had acquired citizenship in their respective Caribbean countries. White Caribbeans include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1209996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1209996", "title": "Wilhelm Imaging Research", "text": "Wilhelm Imaging Research\n\nWilhelm Imaging Research is an American company with expertise in the permanence of photographic and digital printing materials. It provides testing services and conservation advice.\n\nIt was started in 1995 by Henry Wilhelm and Carol Brower, who in 1993 had together written a book on photograph preservation,\"The Permanence and Care of Color Photographs: Traditional and Digital Color Prints, Color Negatives, Slides, and Motion Pictures\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21550729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21550729", "title": "Works of John Betjeman", "text": "Works of John Betjeman\n\nSir John Betjeman (1906–1984) was a twentieth-century English poet, writer and broadcaster. Born to a middle-class family in Edwardian Hampstead, he attended Oxford University, although left without graduating. He turned down a position in the family furniture business, and instead took a series of jobs before becoming the assistant editor of \"The Architectural Review\" in 1931, which reflected a deeply held affection for buildings and their history. That same year he published his first book, \"Mount Zion\", a collection of poems.\n\nIn 1932 Betjeman began a career in broadcasting, with a radio programme about the proposed destruction of Waterloo Bridge; he continued with regular radio work for the rest of his life, appearing in a wide range of genres, from panel and game shows, interviews, news interviews, documentaries and poetry readings. He published his first non-verse book in 1933, \"Ghastly Good Taste\", which was subtitled \"a Depressing Story of the Rise and Fall of English Architecture\"; it reflected his concern of the destruction of Victorian and Edwardian architecture to make way for \"grimmer contemporary developments, shopping arcades, and bogus Tudor bars\". In 1937—shortly after the BBC began regular screen broadcasts—he appeared in his first television programme, \"How to Make a Guidebook\", and went on to appear in a wide range of programmes until his death. His television appearances increased from the 1950s, and his output was prolific.\n\nIn 1960 Betjeman was appointed a Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (CBE), which was followed in 1968 with his election as a Companion of Literature. In 1969 he was knighted and, in 1972, he succeeded Cecil Day-Lewis as Britain's Poet Laureate. In the later years of his life, Betjeman suffered from Parkinson's disease, and he died in May 1984. His obituarist in \"The Times\" thought him \"a true original\", and considered that he was \"whimsical, imprudent, shrewd, humorous, disarming, always something of an \"enfant terrible\". The poet Philip Larkin wrote that Betjeman \"was not only the best loved poet, but one of the best loved men of our time\", while his biographer, the academic John Clarke, described him as a \"unique figure in twentieth-century English poetry, enjoying a degree of fame and success unequalled by any poet since Byron\".\n\nBetjeman was broadcast in numerous radio performances, although no full record exists. Most were on British radio, although he also made recordings for American radio.\n\nBetjeman undertook the role of editor for several magazines and journals, including the undergraduate magazines of \"Oxford Outlook\" and \"Cherwell\"; the following consists of the books he edited.\n\n"}
