{"id": "7189161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7189161", "title": "Air waybill", "text": "Air waybill\n\nAn air waybill (AWB) or air consignment note is a receipt issued by an international airline for goods and an evidence of the contract of carriage, but it is not a document of title to the goods. Hence, the air waybill is non-negotiable.\n\nThe air waybill is the most important document issued by a carrier either directly or through its authorized agent. It is a non-negotiable transport document that covers the transport of cargo from airport to airport. By accepting a shipment, an IATA cargo agent is acting on behalf of the carrier whose air waybill is issued.\n\nAir waybills have eleven digit numbers which can be used to make bookings, check the status of delivery, and a current position of the shipment. \n\nAir waybills are issued in eight sets of different colours. The first three copies are classified as originals. The first original, green in colour, is the issuing carrier's copy. The second, coloured pink, is the consignee's copy. The third, coloured blue, is the shipper's copy. A fourth brown copy acts as the Delivery Receipt or proof of delivery. The other four copies are white.\n\nThe main functions of an airway bill are:\n\n\n\nThe format of the air waybill has been designed by IATA and these can be used for both domestic as well as international transportation. These are available in two forms, viz. the airline logo equipped air waybill and the neutral air waybill.\n\nUsually, airline air waybills are distributed to IATA cargo agents by IATA airlines.\nAn air waybill shows:\n\nIt is also possible to complete an air waybill through a computerized system. IATA's e-Air Waybill (e-AWB) programme and multilateral e-AWB Agreement remove the requirement for an air waybill to be issued as a paper document and therefore allow for electronic air waybill documentation. Agents all over the world are now using their own in-house computer systems to issue airlines' and freight forwarders' own air waybills. IATA cargo agents usually hold air waybills of several carriers. However, it gradually became difficult to accommodate these pre-numbered air waybills with the printed identification in the computer system. Therefore a neutral air waybill was created. Both types of air waybills have the same format and layout. However, the neutral air waybill does not bear any pre-printed individual name, head office address, logo and serial number.\n\nAn air waybill is a contract—an agreement enforceable by commercial law. To become a valid contract it has to be signed by the shipper or his agent and by the carrier or its authorized agent. Although the same individual or organisation may act on behalf of both the carrier and the shipper, the air waybill must be signed twice one each in the respective carrier and shipper boxes. Both signatures may be of the same person. This also implies that the air waybill should be issued immediately upon receipt of the goods and letter in instructions from the shipper.\n\nAs long as the air waybill is neither dated nor signed twice, the goods do not fall within the terms of the conditions of the contract and therefore the carrier will not accept any responsibility for the goods. The validity of the air waybill and thus the contract of carriage expires upon delivery of the shipment to the consignee (or his authorized agent).\n\nThe air waybill is a contract—an agreement between the shipper and the carrier. The agent only acts as an intermediary between the shipper and carrier. The air waybill is also a contract of good faith. This means that the shipper will be responsible for the haul also be liable for all the damage suffered by the airline or any person due to irregularity, incorrectness or incompleteness of insertions on the air waybill, even if the air waybill has been completed by an agent or the carrier on his behalf.\n\nWhen the shipper signs the AWB or issues the letter of instructions he simultaneously confirms his agreement to the conditions of contract.\n\nWaybills are non-negotiable documents unlike bills of lading which are negotiable. The words non-negotiable are printed clearly at the top of the air waybill. This means that the air waybill is a contract for transportation only and does not represent (the value of) merchandise mentioned in the box nature and quantity of goods. The ocean bill of lading, if negotiated, may represent (the value of) the goods and must be endorsed by the party ultimately accepting the goods.\nAlthough the AWB is a non-negotiable document, it can be used as a means of payment. This can be done only through the intermediary of a bank and only when the carriage is subject to a letter of credit. The air waybill executed according to the terms of a letter of credit allows the shipper to present the original of the air waybill to the bank and collect the billed value of the shipped goods from the bank. The amount paid by the bank to the shipper will be debited to the consignee who ordered the goods. At the destination the carrier will only hand over the goods to the consignee on receipt of a bank release order from the consignee's bankers.\n\nThe goods in the air consignment are consigned directly to the party (the consignee) named in the letter of credit (L/C). Unless the goods are consigned to a third party like the issuing bank, the importer can obtain the goods from the carrier at destination without paying the issuing bank or the consignor. Therefore, unless a cash payment has been received by the exporter or the buyer's integrity is unquestionable, consigning goods directly to the importer is risky.\n\nFor air consignment to certain destinations, it is possible to arrange payment on a COD (cash on delivery) basis and consign the goods directly to the importer. The goods are released to the importer only after the importer makes the payment and complies with the instructions in the AWB.\n\nIn air freight, the exporter (the consignor) often engages a freight forwarder or consolidator to handle the forwarding of goods. The consignor provides a Shipper's Letter of Instructions which authorizes the forwarding agent to sign certain documents (e.g. the AWB) on behalf of the consignor.\n\nThe air waybill must indicate that the goods have been accepted for carriage, and it must be signed or authenticated by the carrier or the named agent for or on behalf of the carrier. The signature or authentication of the carrier must be identified as carrier, and in the case of agent signing or authenticating, the name and the capacity of the carrier on whose behalf the agent signs or authenticates must be indicated.\n\nInternational air waybills that contain consolidated cargo are called master air waybills (MAWB). MAWBs have additional papers called house air waybills (HAWB). Each HAWB contains information of each individual shipment (consignee, contents, etc.) within the consolidation. International AWBs that are not consolidated (only one shipment in one bill) are called \"simple AWBs\". A house air waybill can also be created by a freight forwarder. When the shipment is booked, the airline issues a MAWB to the forwarder, who in turn issues their own house air waybill to the customer.\n\nA freight forwarder offering a consolidation service, will issue its own air waybill. From now on AWB will be used to refer to both. This is called a Forwarder's or House AWB with its equivalent House BL. These act as contracts of carriage between the shipper and the forwarder, who in this case becomes a Deemed Carrier. The forwarder in turn enters into contracts with one or more carriers, often using more than one mode of transportation. The contract of carriage between the forwarder and carrier is called a Master Air Waybill. A House Air Waybill (HAWB) could act as a multimodal transport document.\n\nThe AWB number has 11 digits and 3 parts.\n\n\nPart of a copy of a British Caledonian Airways air waybill can be seen on the back of the cover of the album \"Band On The Run\" by Wings.\n\n"}
{"id": "293649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293649", "title": "Anarchist Federation (Britain and Ireland)", "text": "Anarchist Federation (Britain and Ireland)\n\nThe Anarchist Federation (AF) is a federation of anarcho-communists in Great Britain and Ireland. It is not a political party, but a direct action, agitational and propaganda organisation.\n\n"}
{"id": "48582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48582", "title": "ArtCyclopedia", "text": "ArtCyclopedia\n\nArtcyclopedia is an online database of museum-quality fine art founded by Canadian John Malyon.\n\nThe Artcyclopedia only deals with art that can be viewed online, and indexes 2,300 art sites (from museums and galleries), with links to around 180,000 artworks by 8,500 renowned artists. The site has also started to compile a list of art galleries and auction houses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33950150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33950150", "title": "Arthur Monty M. Ahalt", "text": "Arthur Monty M. Ahalt\n\nArthur Monty M. Ahalt (born 27 April 1942) is an American jurist, and a lifelong resident of Maryland. He served as Circuit Court Judge for Prince George's County, and is an internationally recognized advocate of technological solutions for the judicial and legal community. Judge Ahalt has pioneered advances in case management software and online dispute resolution, and is the founder and chief executive officer of VirtualCourthouse.com.\n\nJudge Ahalt received his B.S. in Agricultural Economics from the University of Maryland in 1964 and his J.D. from the Washington College of Law of the American University in 1967. He was a Law Clerk for Blair H. Smith, Esquire, Ralph W. Powers and J. Dudley Digges in the Seventh Judicial Circuit.\n\nUpon his retirement in 1999 Judge Ahalt commenced a career as a Mediator, Arbitrator and Technology Innovator. In addition to his private mediation practice Judge Ahalt is currently recalled by order of the Court of Appeals of Maryland to sit on specially assigned cases and conduct pre-trial, settlement conferences and ADR sessions. Judge Ahalt has been certified as a mediator by all of the Courts of Maryland. He has also been certified to mediate Medical Malpractice Disputes by the statewide Medical Malpractice panel and the statewide panel for Complex Business and Technology disputes. Judge Ahalt has successfully mediated tens of thousands disputes in areas including complex business transactions, construction, personal injury, medical malpractice, real estate, landlord and tenant, and contracts. He is frequently called upon by the parties and judges to mediate the most challenging judicial controversies involving post trial and appellate issues. He brings his 45 years of experience in the trial arena to benefit the parties assisting them in evaluating and mitigating risk. His efforts of tracking, analysing and publishing jury verdicts provide the litigants with real life examples of risk application.\n\nAfter 15 years of private practice as a litigator, Judge Ahalt was appointed to the Circuit Court for Prince George's County on 9 February 1982. His appointment was confirmed in November 1984 by election to a 15-year term. During this time Judge Ahalt tried over 750 jury trials, and eventuated the jury value of over 20,000 injuries as a neutral case evaluator for litigants in the Court's settlement practice. Judge Ahalt also served as President of the Prince George's County Bar Association, and chaired the Youth and Law Committee for the Maryland Bar Association until his retirement. His achievements in improving law related-education were recognized by the American Bar Association honoring him with the \"Isidore Starr Award\", which is the association's highest honor for law-related education.\n\nJudge Ahalt also served as Chief Industry Advisor for LexisNexis CourtLink, and as Chairman of the Circuit Court's Technology committee, which implemented JusticeLink. This represented the first comprehensive effort nationally to file pleadings electronically, and to organize the Court's information electronically so as to make it available to the public online. Judge Ahalt is on the faculty of the Institute for Court Management, and has lectured extensively on the need for technology to find a wider acceptance in the legal community. He has made presentations to the Conference of Chief Justices, The Conference of State Court Administrators, CTC6 the Technology Conference sponsored by the National Center for State Courts as well as the Tech shows of The American Bar Association, The Maryland Bar Association, and the Connecticut Bar Association.\n\nJudge Ahalt is also founder and CEO of VirtualCourthouse.com, an online dispute resolution service that allows parties to choose a provider of ADR services to settle their dispute online. The site has settled over 1000 cases, and in 2009, it received the American Bar Association's Louis M. Brown Award for Legal Access for minimizing \"the need and cost of unnecessary face-to-face meetings, mailing and copying\" during the ADR process. In 2012, VirtualCourthouse.com entered into partnerships with the video-conferencing provider IOCOM as well as with Auburn University.\n\n"}
{"id": "27588629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27588629", "title": "Badoglio Proclamation", "text": "Badoglio Proclamation\n\nThe Badoglio Proclamation was a speech read on Ente Italiano per le Audizioni Radiofoniche (EIAR) at 19:42 on 8 September 1943 by Marshal Pietro Badoglio, Italian head of government, announcing that the Cassibile armistice between Italy and the Allies signed on 3 September had come into force. It followed a speech on Radio Algiers by U.S. General Dwight D. Eisenhower at 18:30 (17:30 Algerian time) also announcing the armistice.\n\nThe abandonment of Rome by the military high command, the head of government Badoglio, King Vittorio Emanuele III and the king's son Umberto, their move towards Pescara then Brindisi, and above all the proclamation's use of a format which did not give the clauses of the armistice in a clearly comprehensible form (which was largely wrongly interpreted as meaning a complete end to the war) all led to confusion. This was particularly so among the Italian armed forces on all fronts, who remained unaware of the armistice's precise content and disbanded themselves. Over 600,000 Italian soldiers were captured by the German army and sent to various prisoner of war camps under the designation I.M.I. (\"internati militari italiani\", or Italian military internees) in the weeks immediately after the announcement. More than half of all Italian soldiers laid down their arms and returned home (as referred to in the title of the 1960 film set at the time, \"Tutti a casa\"). The Italian and German high commands intercepted the Eisenhower broadcast first and so the Germans immediately put Operation Achse into effect to disarm their former allies and occupy the whole Italian peninsula, on 9 September sinking the Italian battleship \"Roma\", which had been ordered on the night of 8 September to sail with the entire Italian fleet to Malta in accordance with the armistice's clauses, under the cover-story of attacking the Allied forces landing at Salerno in Operation Baytown.\n\nAt the same time part of the Italian armed forces decided to remain loyal to the king, giving rise to the Italian resistance (one of whose first examples ended in the annihilation of the 33 Mountain Infantry Division Acqui on Cephalonia by the Germans) and part joined the free individuals, parties and movements such as the Brigata Maiella. Other branches, especially in the north, such as the Xª Flottiglia MAS, decided to remain loyal to fascist Italy and the Germans. Despite the proclamation, the Allies thwarted a massive and immediate release of Italian prisoners of war loyal to the Italian king and the Badoglio regime, to avoid their possibly rejoining the Fascist forces in northern Italy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2497187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2497187", "title": "Clement Mansfield Ingleby", "text": "Clement Mansfield Ingleby\n\nClement Mansfield Ingleby (29 October 1823 – 26 September 1886) was an English Shakespearian scholar.\n\nClement Ingleby was born at Edgbaston near Birmingham, the son of a lawyer. Poor health – he was not expected to live long – kept him from attending school, so he was privately educated at home. He went to Trinity College, Cambridge, when twenty years old, and specialised in mathematics. He received his B.A. in 1847 and his M.A. in 1850. Returning to Birmingham he went to work in his father's law office, and then became a partner in the firm of Ingleby, Wragge, and Ingleby (now Wragge & Co LLP). In spite of his poor health he devoted his spare time to metaphysics, mathematics, and English literature.\n\nIn 1850 Ingleby married Sarah Oakes (d. 3 January 1906).\n\nIn 1855 the Birmingham and Midland Institute was established, an experiment in continuing adult education. Ingleby took on giving a class in logic and metaphysics at the industrial branch. His methods were novel and the class was successful. A disciple of William Hamilton, Ingleby focused on the most current views, even obtaining from Hamilton his yet-unpublished improvements. Urged by his students, Ingleby issued \"Outlines of Theoretical Logic\" in 1856 as a textbook in the subject. It was his first published volume.\n\nIn the 1850s documents discovered by John Payne Collier bearing on Elizabethan stage history in general and Shakespeare's life in particular fell under suspicion. Re-examination of several documents showed them to be out-and-out forgeries, forgeries so obvious it was difficult to see how Collier could have been deceived by them. One item of particular interest, the Perkins Folio, had never been examined by anybody besides Collier. It contained many corrections in what appeared to be a 16th-century hand that Collier suggested might be based on stage tradition. Ingleby, along with Sir Frederick Madden, who put the resources of the British Museum on the task, were finally able to examine the Perkins Folio in detail. They discovered—as was the case with others of the forgeries—modern pencil-marks under the supposedly ancient writing. The handwriting of these appeared to be Collier's.\n\nThe conclusion was inescapable—Collier himself must have forged these documents. In 1859 Ingleby published a small volume entitled \"The Shakespeare Fabrications\", setting these facts forth dispassionately. (An appendix to this volume dealing with the Ireland Shakespeare forgeries, however, was later repudiated by the author.) Collier denied the allegations, but Ingleby's \"A Complete View of the Shakespeare Controversy\" closed the discussion, and Collier did not reply.\n\nIngleby abandoned law for literature in 1859, and removed from Birmingham to the neighbourhood of London. His early works were of a philosophical nature (his \"Introduction to Metaphysics\" in two parts came out in 1864 and 1869), but he is best known as the author of a long series of works on Shakespearian subjects. In 1874 appeared \"The Still Lion\", enlarged in 1875 as \"Shakespeare Hermeneutics\". This warned against needless emendation of Shakespeare's text and explained some alleged problems. In 1875 \"Shakespeare's Centurie of Prayse\" came out, a definitive collection of allusions to Shakespeare and his works between 1592 and 1692. Other contributions include \"Shakespeare: the Man and the Book\" (a collection of essays in two volumes, 1877 and 1881), \"Shakespeare's Bones\" (1882), and \"Shakespeare and the Enclosure of the Common Fields at Welcombe\" (1885).\n\nIngleby was also a musician (he sang Shakespearean songs as part of the 1864 tercentenary celebration of Shakespeare's birth in Birmingham), a chess enthusiast who contributed problems to \"Chess Player's Chronicle\" and the \"Illustrated London News\", and a member of the Athenæum Club. At various times he was Secretary of the Birmingham and Edgbaston Chess Club and a Vice-President of the Royal Society of Literature.\n\nIll-health had plagued him throughout his life, and in 1886 he became seriously ill. His edition of \"Cymbeline\" had just come out when he died on 26 September 1886.\n\nIngleby took a dark view of his own character: \"I am morally weak in many respects,\" he wrote. \"In some matters I have been systematically deceptive, and occasionally cowardly and treacherous. I am passionately fond of personal beauty; but on the whole, I dislike my kind, and my natural affections are weak\" Horace Howard Furness, however, wrote of him:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "974709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=974709", "title": "Comparison of baseball and cricket", "text": "Comparison of baseball and cricket\n\nBaseball and cricket are the best-known members of a family of related bat-and-ball games.\n\nDespite their similarities, the two sports also have many differences in play and in strategy. A comparison between baseball and cricket can be instructive to followers of either sport, since the similarities help to highlight nuances particular to each game.\n\nBat-and-ball games, in general, are sports in which one team (the fielding team) has possession of the ball and delivers it to a member of the other team (the batting team), who tries to hit it. The two opposing teams take turns playing these two distinct roles, which are continuous during a specified interval. This contrasts with \"goal-oriented\" games, such as all forms of football, hockey, and basketball, in which possession of the ball or puck can change in an instant, and thus \"attackers\" and the \"defenders\" frequently reverse roles during the course of the game.\n\nIn both cricket and baseball, the players of one team attempt to score points known as \"runs\" by hitting a ball with a bat, while the members of the other team field the ball in an attempt to prevent scoring and to put batting players \"out\".\n\nOnce a certain number of batting players are out (different in the two sports), the teams swap roles. This sequence of each team taking each role once is called an \"inning\" (plural \"innings\") in baseball, and an \"innings\" (both singular and plural) in cricket. The single/plural usage in cricket is comparable to the baseball slang term for a single inning as the team's \"ups\". A baseball game consists of nine innings per team, while a cricket match may have either one or two innings per team.\n\nOther present-day bat-and-ball games include softball, stickball, rounders (both English and Irish forms), stoolball, pesäpallo or Finnish baseball, punchball, kickball, and British baseball. Earlier forms include The Massachusetts Game of baseball, which was similar to rounders, and Old Cat.\n\nBaseball is played in a quadrant of fair territory between foul lines. The official minimum distance from home plate to the nearest fence, stand or other obstruction is , and the recommended distances are at least along the foul lines and in centre field. This produces a recommended fair territory field area just over . Most Major League Baseball parks have fair territory areas in the range of .\n\nIn contrast, Test and One Day International cricket is played on a field with a minimum width of and length , giving a minimum area of , assuming an elliptical shape. However the shape of a cricket ground is not fixed. Test grounds around the world are typically , an area of about , ranging up to or at a venue such as the MCG.\n\nIn cricket, the \"pitch\" is a prepared rectangular area between two wickets. Its length is the distance between the wickets, . While its width is 12 feet or 3.66 metres in length, the width of the playing area on that pitch is distance between two return creases, which are 8 feet 8 inches or 2.44 metres apart. The popping creases at each end of the pitch, from which the bowler bowls and the batsman plays, are 4 feet or 1.22 metres in front of the wickets. The bowling, popping and return creases are defined by contrasting lines, generally white in color. \n\nIn baseball, the pitcher must deliver from a rubber slab (typically referred to as \"the rubber\") that lies atop a raised area of the infield called the \"pitcher's mound\". The front of the rubber is from the rear point of home plate (officially called \"home base\" and often simply \"home\"). Before the advent of the pitcher's mound and the rubber, the pitcher threw from within a rectangular \"pitcher's box\". There was a large rectangular dirt area, between the pitcher's box and the batting areas around home, which resembled the cricket pitch.\n\nThe bowler at the moment of delivery must have part of the front foot behind the popping crease and be within the return crease. The rules do not prohibit delivery of the ball from behind the popping crease, and the ball may be released from well behind the crease. The ball must be \"bowled,\" not thrown, and, since 2000, not delivered with an underarm action. The batsmen \"take guard\" or \"block\" in front of the wicket, and they may choose to do so in front of or behind the popping crease. That nets to a typical distance of about between the delivery point and batsman.\n\nIn baseball, the pitcher's release point could be about depending on his delivery style, but the batter also tends to stand back or \"deep\" in the batter's box, to maximise his time to \"look the ball over\", up to further from the pitching rubber than the point of home plate is. Thus the horizontal distance, from release of the ball by the pitcher/bowler to its arrival at the batter/batsman, is similar in both sports. However, the ball usually travels further in cricket as it normally bounces off the ground first, adding a significant vertical component to the total distance travelled.\n\nThe main difference in fielding in the two sports is that even though a cricket ball is harder and heavier than a baseball, generally fielders in cricket are not permitted to use gloves (except in exceptional circumstances, and when approved by both umpires) or external leg guards.. The only fielders who wear protective gear are the wicket-keeper, who is allowed to wear padded gloves as well as leg guards and an abdominal protector or box; and fielders in potentially dangerous close-in positions such as silly point and short leg may wear leg protection underneath their clothing, boxes and helmets but are not allowed any gloves. In baseball, catchers and first basemen normally wear mitts, which have no fingers and are specially designed for each respective position. The other fielders wear gloves with fingers. (Early baseball was also played bare-handed; gloves were adopted in the later 19th century.) This means that the risk of hand injury due to the impact of the ball is far higher in cricket. Also, especially in Test cricket, it is common for several fielders to be stationed close to the bat (slips, short leg, silly point and similar positions) since the likelihood and value of dismissing a batsman by a catch in a close fielding position is higher.\n\nBaseball games have far lower scores than cricket matches. The largest combined runs total in a single game in the history of Major League Baseball is 49, whereas first-class cricket matches, including Tests, have produced combined totals from all four innings of over 1000 runs.\n\nFor a more direct comparison, matches in Twenty20 cricket, a form of limited overs cricket in which games last about the same time as a regulation baseball game, frequently produce combined run totals of 300 or more, with the all-time record being 489. Each run in a baseball game is roughly 75 times as important as a run in a Test cricket match (or 10–20 times the value of a cricketer scoring 4 or 6 runs off a single ball); therefore moments of poor pitching and individual fielding mistakes are much more costly. A baseball player who is a great hitter will start games regularly regardless of how good his fielding is, but a player who is merely an above average hitter, but who is not a competent fielder, may not play regularly, or may be used only in the designated hitter position in leagues that use it.\n\nBaseball players often need to throw immediately after catching the struck ball (for example, the double play), while this is unnecessary in cricket as the ball is deemed \"dead\" when a dismissal takes place. Hence, fielders in cricket have a greater incentive to dive and take a catch due to the fact that a run out is generally much harder to achieve in comparison to baseballers throwing runners out.\n\nThe configuration of the baseball diamond effectively bars left-handers from the fielding positions that make throwing to first base a primary responsibility. Right-handers can throw to their left – i.e., toward first base – with much greater ease than can left-handers. So in practical terms, all second basemen, shortstops, and third basemen are right-handed. Left-handed catchers are also exceedingly rare; while the reasons appear to be primarily cultural, handling bunts up the third-base line and throws on plays at home pose particular obstacles to left-handed catchers.\n\nWhile most throws a first baseman must make go to the right, which a left-hander can generally accomplish with greater speed and fluency, this is a relatively small factor to the advantage of a left-handed first baseman. More important advantages are related to the position of a left-handed first baseman with respect to the base. First, a left-handed first baseman has an advantage over his right-handed counterpart when catching a pickoff throw from the pitcher—when a first baseman is in pickoff position, standing in front of the bag, the left-hander can catch the ball and make a tag without having to move his arm across his body. (See the picture in the \"Strategy over the course of the game\" section below for the standard pickoff position with a right-handed first baseman.) Second, because the first baseman starts most plays with his left leg closer to the base, the left-hander does not have to make a half-pivot to get into the correct position to stretch out for a throw. For these reasons, left-handed throwers are far more common at first base than in the general population of baseball players. In contrast, cricket is fielded in the round: the handedness of the fielder in any given position is of far less consequence due to the priority being placed on catching rather than throwing, coupled with the fact that the batsmen are running in opposite directions and both left-handed and right-handed throwers are found in all parts of the field.\n\nBody contact between runner and fielder is frequent in baseball, particularly at home plate. This is driven to a large extent by the manner in which a runner is put out. In both sports, rules prohibit interfering with runners. However, in baseball, the runner himself (or the base he is advancing to, if forced) must be tagged by a fielder holding the ball, to be put out. The catcher awaiting a throw will often stand between the plate and the runner. Once he catches it, the runner might try to go around the catcher, or he might simply bowl the catcher over, if he thinks he can dislodge the ball by such contact; and if the catcher does \"not\" have the ball, the runner may still bowl the catcher over, which is considered fair because by rule a fielder without a ball cannot impede a runner. By contrast, in cricket, the stumps are the target for \"tagging\" rather than the runner. No contact with the runners is either necessary or allowed. Contact between opposing sides is rare, and is usually not deliberate. Violent contact between players was once even greater in baseball, as before the Knickerbocker Rules it was permitted in some versions of the game to literally \"throw out\" a runner by hitting him (or \"soaking\" him) with a thrown ball (in lieu of hitting a base or stake that would equate to cricket's wickets). This rule still exists in some versions of the baseball variant called kickball, which is played with a soccer ball and thus is much less injurious. Except when played batting in a hands-down position, kickball also calls for literal \"bowling\" of the ball, underhand, as with the old rules of both cricket and baseball. \"All 'round hands down\" kickball leagues exist, but in most of these, the ball is pitched with the face or shoulders.\n\nOne of the main differences between baseball and Test cricket is the primary intent of the batsman. Usually, in Test/First Class cricket, wickets come at a far higher premium, since survival is of primary importance. While nine innings per side are played in a baseball game within a few hours, only two per side are played in Test cricket over five days (thirty hours), so the cost of a dismissal is far higher in cricket. It should be kept in mind that a batsman in cricket is not obligated to take a run after striking the ball, nor is there any penalty for swinging at the ball and missing unless it hits the stumps (i.e., the wicket) (or, as often happens, makes a glancing contact with the bat and is caught) and there is no limit to the number of deliveries a batsman can face; a batsman with the required concentration, determination and technical ability often bats for several hours (occasionally days) without being dismissed. By contrast, in baseball a batter takes a serious penalty (a \"strike\") if he swings and misses: three strikes result in an out, and if the batter hits the ball inside fair territory he must run. This contrast means that in cricket, unlike baseball, the quality of a batsman's defensive game and footwork (unlike baseball batters, cricket batsmen are not required to keep their back foot grounded when hitting the ball) are of the utmost importance. The nuances of batting technique are also greater in cricket, since the interplays between bowling variations, field placements and scoring strengths are more dynamic. Since cricket is played over an extended duration, the bowler and the fielding captain have time to \"work over\" a batsman (e.g., trying several different bowlers). Thus, cricket batting requires a very tight technique and the ability to withstand sustained examinations.\n\nThe area for legal deliveries is much larger in cricket than it is in baseball, overlapping the batsman's entire body. Deliveries that reach the batsmen at rib or shoulder height are legal, and quite common. Depending on the form of the game, more or fewer deliveries can be bowled to reach the batsmen at throat or head level. Any fear or hesitation can lead to a batsman playing a poor shot which may result in him giving away his wicket (being dismissed).\n\nSince the cricket bat is wide and flat, while the baseball bat is narrow and round, on the whole cricket batsmen find it easier to hit and direct the ball than baseball batters, resulting in many more runs being scored in a cricket match. While bowlers can influence the ability of the batsmen to do so, perhaps the most famous episode being the Bodyline tactic, cricket batsmen can use a wider variety of batting strokes to direct the ball in many directions into a field which provides much more open space than in baseball. Keeping in mind, cricket batsmen are under no obligation to attempt to score a run after any stroke, but must strike balls to prevent them from hitting the wicket or their pads. Many strokes are in fact defensive in nature against a well-bowled ball and the quality of defensive batting is often the determining factor of a batsman's success over his career, especially in the longer forms of the game.\nBy contrast, the balance of power is largely reversed in baseball. While particularly skilled batters have some ability to \"place hit\" and direct the ball to desired locations, the pitcher's influence is much more dramatic. Pitchers induce more ground outs, fly outs, or strikeouts, depending on the style of pitch. Thus particular pitchers are known for causing batters to make certain kinds of outs, depending on their mastered pitches. Also in contrast to cricket, baseball batters must attempt to take first base on any ball put into fair territory, and failing to do so will result in an out, but the size of the strike zone more strictly limits the set of deliveries that must be swung at compared to cricket. Like cricket, baseball batters do have a defensive tactic available; many batters will often attempt to deliberately \"foul off\" pitches that are strikes yet difficult to hit well, by hitting them into foul territory, awaiting an easier delivery later in the at-bat. Since an uncaught foul ball cannot be a third strike (unless it was a bunt attempt), this tactic allows the batter to receive more pitches.\nIn the early generations of baseball, the emphasis was mostly on bat control, place hitting, bunting, etc. But, starting in 1919, several factors resulted in a dramatic expansion of strategic orientation, supplementing traditional \"small ball\" with the \"power game\": a \"livelier\" ball, because of better materials and a tighter weave; more frequent substitutions of new balls; lighter, more flexible bats; the outlawing of the spitball; and the increase in attendance which drove owners to build more outfield seating, thus reducing the outfield area significantly. The power game has been encouraged further in recent years, by the construction of new ballparks with smaller outfields than previously, and even the reduction of field size at \"classic\" ballparks known for spacious outfields; for example, the distance to the fence in deep left field at the original Yankee Stadium was reduced from between 1984 and 1988 (the post-1988 dimensions were maintained at the current Yankee Stadium). Still, it is generally agreed that no one can hit a home run at will, and every successful batter knows never to go to the plate intending to hit a home run. Rather, he should attempt a level swing, try to pull only the ball on the inside of the plate, go the other way with balls low and outside, and otherwise start each at bat intending to drive the ball up the middle, which is the most vulnerable part of the infield (especially if the pitcher is not particularly good at fielding his position).\n\nThe games emphasise power hitting to different degrees. Cricket requires the accumulation of large numbers of runs; and placement of the ball between the fielders produces runs efficiently and is generally accepted as a better strategy than \"swinging for sixes\". In baseball, power hitting can produce runs quickly and frequently in many situations, as well as force pitching changes and other fielding moves; but it can also result (because of the great difficulty of driving a ball off a cylindrical bat) in a great many strike outs, fly outs, and ground outs. In cricket situations can arise in a match where power hitting, also called \"slogging\", is required. This typically occurs towards the final overs of a limited overs game and can also be an option to get runs for batsmen even earlier in the innings. It is still quite risky.\n\nCricket bowlers, since they are not restricted to a small strike zone as their target, also use a wide variety of approaches which are not available to baseball pitchers. These involve varying the line and length of deliveries and using unpredictable movement caused by the ball bouncing on the pitch before it reaches the batsman. Baseball pitchers, by contrast, must use changes in ball speed and movement (cricket bowlers also vary ball speed) caused only by air friction and spin to deceive batters, as most pitches which come near touching the ground are ineffectively allowed to pass as balls. The raised undulating stitching on a baseball allows an accomplished pitcher to create a huge variety of motions in the air; even fastballs are thrown in such a way as to create certain kinds of movement. The cricket ball also moves in the air, to a lesser degree than the baseball, but it achieves its most pronounced movement on the bounce, with seamers landing the ball on the seam to create slight but unpredictable turn, and spinners using spin to create significant turn and bounce variation. Furthermore, pitchers must begin their throw from a stationary position, while bowlers may run up to their delivery. (In the early days of baseball, the pitcher pitched from anywhere within a \"box\" and so had more flexibility as to where to stand when releasing the ball, before the 1880s.) Baseball pitchers also throw from an elevated mound ( above the level of home plate), while cricket bowlers are at the same height as the batsman (because every 6 deliveries which end of the pitch is used for bowling and batting switches) and must bowl with an overarm (or roundarm, a style rarely seen today) rotation of the arm during which the arm must not straighten by more than 15 degrees. (This was also a restriction on pitchers in the early days of baseball, abolished in the 1880s; today, baseball pitchers use a variety of delivery motions discussed below.) Despite the differences in delivery action, the delivery speeds are similar for both sports with the fastest bowlers and pitchers propelling the ball in the region of : the fastest recorded cricket delivery is with baseball's record quicker at . It is the case, however, that baseball pitches near or at 100 mph are considerably more common than bowled balls of comparable velocity in cricket. The bowler in cricket is much more restricted with respect to how much he can straighten his arm in delivering the ball, and this is one very significant reason why baseball pitchers can deliver the ball faster with more frequency.\n\nOne main difference, however, is that the ball in cricket is harder and heavier in weight. The legal weight for the ball in baseball is from ; whereas the ball in cricket must weigh between .\n\nAnother main reason for the difference in pace is that in baseball the ball reaches the batter on the full, whereas in cricket the ball is usually bounced off the pitch before reaching the batsman- which does take pace off the ball, especially on drier dustier pitches. A delivery in cricket that reaches the batsman without bouncing, known as a full toss, is legal so long as it is below waist high. However, this is usually considered a poor delivery as it is often quite easy to score runs from.\n\nCricket's bowlers are grouped into different categories based on their bowling style—pacemen, seamers, off-spinners (or finger-spinners), leg-spinners (or wrist-spinners)—though a bowler may fall into more than one category (pace and seam bowling, for instance, largely overlap). The faster bowlers usually open the bowling, when the ball is at its hardest and smoothest. Spin bowlers generally bowl later, when the ball has begun to deteriorate and become rough.\n\nBaseball's pitchers are classified primarily by their throwing hand (left or right, with left-handed pitchers often called \"southpaws\") and their usual role in games. A starting pitcher begins games, typically not more than one game in five, in a rotation with four teammates who are also starters who will start games in a sequential cycle, and usually pitch five or more innings. Starters rarely appear as substitutes in games started by others. A relief pitcher enters games later, sometimes on short notice in crisis situations in which there are already runners on base and/or the opponent's best hitters due to bat, and usually pitches fewer innings in any given game. But relievers may be called upon to pitch in several games consecutively. Some relievers even specialise further strictly as closers brought in just to pitch the last inning of a game in which his team leads by a narrow margin. Perhaps the most specialised group of relievers is left-handed specialists—left-handed pitchers who pitch almost exclusively to left-handed batters (sometimes to switch hitters who are weaker batters right-handed). More often than not, such a pitcher will face only one batter in a given game.\n\nPitchers are sometimes secondarily grouped according to pitching style, type of pitch most often used, or velocity. This is especially common when pitching technique is rare or unusual. For example, there are many different variations on how the pitch is delivered, including the conventional overhand in which the ball is thrown from the 12 o'clock position, 3/4 styles (with the arm moving towards the plate between 12 and 3 o'clock), as well as the less common sidearm (3 o'clock arm angle, compare roundarm bowling in cricket) and 'submarine' (below 3 o'clock, compare underarm bowling in cricket) deliveries. The submarine pitch is rare, and a pitcher who throws in this way usually has a 'submariner' attached to his name or description. Similarly, there are many kinds of pitches thrown, including the fastball, curve ball, slider, and knuckleball. Capable knuckleballers are extremely rare and are usually described by this skill first.\n\nFor reasons that continue to spur debate, it is historically the case that most right-handed pitchers succeed at higher rates against right-handed hitters than against left-handers, and that most left-handed pitchers succeed at higher rates against left-handed hitters than right-handers.\n\nOne substantial strategic element to baseball is to use this phenomenon as much as possible. Defenses try to force a match between pitcher and hitter by side, and offences attempt to mismatch them; both teams use substitutions at times to accomplish the desired outcome. One response to this phenomenon is that many hitters, among them a number of the finest and most powerful to play the game, such as Mickey Mantle, Eddie Murray, and Chipper Jones, became adept as youngsters to hitting both left-handed and right-handed to prevent defences from using that advantage against them. Many professional clubs employ as many as two or three switch hitters so as to neutralise the advantage of side selection. However, only one switch pitcher has played in the major leagues in modern times.\n\nIn addition, if a baseball batter is struck with a pitch, he is awarded first base; \"hitting\" the batter includes hitting loose parts of his uniform without hitting his body (baseball rules specify that a player's person includes his uniform and equipment except for his bat). Pitchers may throw close to the batters, and a \"brushback\" is often used as an intimidation tactic. Deliberately hitting a batter is fairly uncommon, however, chiefly because it is punished severely. If the umpire believes a batter was intentionally hit, the umpire has his discretion on a first offence to warn both benches that the pitcher for either team will be expelled from the game if there are any further hit batsmen (the one baseball term in which \"batsman\" is used). The warning—and the power to expel if it is contravened—is intended not only to protect batters but to avert fighting; being hit by a fastball is taken seriously by batters, and bench-clearing brawls occasionally result when one team decides the other is deliberately throwing at its batters. Amazingly, in the history of the major league game, only one player has ever been killed by a pitched ball striking him in the head (Ray Chapman of the Cleveland Indians in 1920). This occurred before the invention of the batting helmet and was the principal cause for introducing this piece of equipment into the game as well as replacing dirty balls and outlawing the spitball.\n\nIn cricket, bowlers consider the right to hit a batsman as part of their armoury; indeed, one of the most common methods of dismissal (leg before wicket) requires the bowler to hit the batsman's body rather than his bat. (However, to cause dismissal, the ball must be adjudged to be going onto hit the wicket, and therefore be relatively low, where batsmen are mostly protected by padding.) A fast bowler will punctuate his overs with deliveries intended to bounce up toward the batsman's head, either to induce a poor shot (which can be either defensive or attacking) which may result in the batsman being caught out, or to intimidate the batsman, making him less likely to play forward to the next few deliveries for fear of injury. These tactics have long been an accepted part of cricket. In the modern game, batsmen usually wear helmets and heavy padding, so that being struck by the ball only rarely results in significant injury—though it is nevertheless often painful, sometimes causing concussion or fractures (although it can also have fatal consequences: Phillip Hughes died after being struck in the head/neck area by a Sean Abbott bouncer during a Sheffield Shield match in 2014). Baseball batters wear helmets, but they are unsecured and lack the \"cage\" since only one side of the head/face is exposed. Catchers typically wear a helmet with a cage or protective bars. An equivalent ball to striking the batter in baseball would be a beamer, where the ball hits the batter's upper body area without bouncing first. These are rare and usually caused by the ball slipping out of the top of the bowler's hand. The even rarer intentional beamer provokes strong reaction from batter and crowd alike. The umpire is authorised to take disciplinary action in such instances. The bowler is generally given a first warning, and is dismissed from the game if the offence is repeated. A notable such case was between Waqar Younis and Andrew Symonds: Younis was banned from bowling by umpire David Shepherd for delivering a beamer to Symonds in a match between Pakistan and Australia at the 2003 World Cup; it was the first of only two times it's ever happened during an international match.\n\nThere is a major difference in the way in which different bowlers or pitchers contribute to a single game. In baseball, a single pitcher starts the game, and makes every pitch until the manager replaces the tiring pitcher with a relief pitcher. Replaced pitchers cannot return to pitch again in the same game (unless they are shuttled to another position in the field and thus stay in the line-up, a move rarely seen in the major leagues), and a succession of pitchers may come into the game in sequence until it ends. In cricket, two bowlers begin the game, with those not actively bowling spending time as fielders. Every player in the team, including the wicket-keeper but excluding the 12th man, is available to be used as a bowler. Bowlers alternate bowling overs of six balls each. A bowler will usually bowl for a 'spell' of several (alternate) overs, and will generally bowl the entire spell from the same end of the pitch. A second bowler will bowl the overs missed by the first, from the other end of the pitch, for his own spell. After a bowler is taken off, he may be, and often is, asked to bowl another spell later in the same innings. Although moving a pitcher to a fielding position and returning him to pitch later in the game is legal in baseball, it is a rarely used and potentially risky strategy, as the pitcher may be unprepared to play another position.\n\nThe terms \"bowling\" and \"pitching\", as words, both denote underarm deliveries, as were once required in both games. The rules for delivery were also initially very similar. Once overhand deliveries were permitted in the respective sports, and pitchers were compelled to toe the pitching rubber instead of throwing from anywhere within the \"pitcher's box\", the actions of bowling and pitching diverged significantly.\n\nThe \"wide\" in cricket and the \"ball\" in baseball both derive from the concept of a \"fair\" delivery, i.e., a delivery that the batter or batsman has a fair chance of making contact with his bat. While there is no sharply defined \"strike zone\" in cricket as there is in baseball (but there are lines known as the return creases perpendicular to the other crease lines which the umpires can use as a guide, and in limited overs cricket specific wide lines are painted on the pitch 17 inches (43.2 cm) inside the return creases), in both cases the umpire must judge whether the ball was delivered fairly. Both the \"wide\" and the \"ball\" result in a \"penalty\". In cricket, like a no-ball, a single run is awarded to the battling team and it does not count as a legal delivery. In baseball, a ball is called, and if a pitcher gives up four balls the batter is awarded first base, which is called a \"base on balls\" or a \"walk\". A walk will only score a run directly if the bases are already loaded, forcing the runner at third base to advance to home (known as \"walking in a run\"); otherwise the threat is merely of another runner reaching base instead of making an out. However, since runs are scored so much more frequently in cricket, the occasional wide, scoring a run directly, is not taken too seriously, although the extra delivery can be of vital significance toward the end of a match. In both games, a wide or a ball can be the decisive factor in winning a match or a game.\n\nRunning plays a much larger role in baseball because of the low scoring; also, players on the batting team must run much further to score a run, because runners may remain in play (that is, on the bases) without scoring, and because baserunners can advance to the next base before the ball is hit again (\"steal\" the base) as soon as the ball is live. Base stealing often requires sliding, in which the runner throws himself to the ground to avoid being tagged or over-running the base. The runner may also deliberately slide into the fielder at the base he is trying to steal to keep him from catching the ball or to disrupt a double play. At home plate the runner often will simply, and legally, run into a catcher who is blocking the baseline but who does not have the ball (a defensive player may not impede the runner unless he has the ball or is in the process of catching it).\n\nThe equivalent in cricket is almost impossible because the bowler is next to the non-striker, and in fact was once able to mankad him if he strayed out of his crease. Tactical running in cricket rarely strays beyond the consideration of \"can I make it to the other end before the ball does\". One exception of this is towards the end of a closely fought limited overs game, where a batsman (normally a tail-ender) would sacrifice his wicket to allow the better batsman to remain on strike, usually in the last few balls. While in baseball, steals, sacrificial running, forces, double plays, intimidation, and physical contact enter into the equation.\n\nMaking contact with a fielder, as baserunners often do, would be unsportsmanlike in cricket, and unnecessary, as play stops when a single wicket is taken. Occasionally a cricket runner will dive over the crease, but in baseball this is a regular occurrence, as players are frequently forced to run even when their chances are slim.\n\nSince a team almost always scores fewer runs in a baseball game than its number of outs, a baserunner will frequently take risks attempting to advance an extra base or to score a run, resulting in close plays at a base. In cricket, since the number of runs scored is much greater than the number of wickets taken in a match, a batsman would be very foolish to risk getting run out in an attempt to score an extra run without a very high expected chance of success. In general, cricket batsmen are run out due to exceptional fielding, poor judgment/communication, or a combination of said factors. In baseball, runners are often out not of their own accord – they are simply forced out.\n\nA direct comparison is difficult since cricket is predominantly played in three different formats: Test (and other first-class matches), One Day (50 over/List A matches) and Twenty20. Of these, the Twenty20 format takes much the same time as a baseball game: around three to three-and-a-half hours. Baseball games are generally much shorter than Test and One Day cricket games. Most Major League Baseball games last between two-and-a-half and four-and-a-half hours. Because the Major League playing season is 6 months long (183 days, between April and October with spring training in February and March), with 81 games played at home and 81 away (162 in all, not counting the postseason or the All-Star Game), baseball teams often find themselves playing double-headers and series games. A doubleheader entails two games, played back to back, in one day. This usually occurs when a game needed to be rescheduled, and is a common occurrence at the beginning of the Major League season, which coincides with the rainy spring season. Although they were once common, double-headers are rarely scheduled any more by teams, but are part of the culture of baseball, with Ernie Banks' \"Let's play two\" a famous refrain. A series occurs when two teams play on several consecutive days. This is a part of the regular schedule in baseball because of the number of games required in a season, and because there are large distances between stadiums in the US and Canada, thus conserving time and resources by allowing the teams to spend several days in a single location. In Major League Baseball there is a maximum of 20 days consecutively played before a break in games must be observed.\n\nIn cricket, test matches and certain domestic first class matches can last up to five days, with scheduled breaks each day for lunch and tea, giving three sessions of play each day. Full length games, for example between English counties or between Australian states, have a similar format to Test matches, but either three or four days are allowed. \nThe \"limited overs\" versions of the sport usually last up to 7 hours. Twenty20 has innings of twenty overs per team and generally takes around 3 hours.\n\nOne Day Internationals and Twenty20 cricket, with their inherent limit on the number of fair deliveries, do not have an exact equivalent in baseball. The closest comparison would be games that have a pre-set number of innings shorter than the standard 9 (as with the second game of a doubleheader at some levels) or a pre-set time limit of some kind, such as a curfew restriction, or in the case of one of baseball's cousins, recreational softball, a pre-set length of the game, such as one hour.\n\nA wide array of factors affect both games (from composition of the pitch or field soil to weather conditions, wind, and moisture) and numerous strategies in both games can be employed to exploit these factors. Other than the bowler, cricket places very few restrictions on fielding placement, even for the wicket-keeper, and its variety of bowling styles, 360 degrees of open field, wide bowling area (target zone), and so on give scope for strategic play. Notable exceptions include the limit of two fielders in the leg side quadrant, introduced to prevent the use of Bodyline tactics, and limiting outfield players in the early stages of limited overs matches and the subsequent introduction of powerplays. In baseball, there are very specific rules about the positions of the pitcher and the catcher at the start of each play. The positioning of the other seven fielders is as flexible as cricket, except that each one must start the play positioned in fair territory. The fielders are otherwise free to position themselves anywhere on the playing field, based on the game situation.\n\nA major element of strategy in these sports is the condition of the ball. Since bowling in cricket has more variations (such as bounce, swing, seam movement, off-spin, leg-spin and so on), the condition of the ball also affects play to a great degree. In Test cricket, the same ball must be used for at least 80 overs unless it is lost, damaged or illegally modified at which point it must be replaced with a used ball in a similar condition. After the 80 overs, obtaining a new ball is at the discretion of the fielding captain – who will often ask for a new ball immediately, since a new ball is harder, smoother, bounces higher and has an intact seam, which produces greater conventional swing. But when a captain feels that a spin bowling attack is more likely to be successful, he will persist with the old ball, which is rougher and better grips the surface as well the bowler's fingers. In baseball the ball is replaced numerous times during a game to ensure it is in optimum condition.\n\nThe aerodynamics of swing in cricket are different from baseball. Moreover, the raised seam also causes movement off the pitch in cricket, which is a very important part of medium pace bowling. Once a particular hemisphere of the cricket ball is more rough or scratched than the other, the fielding team meticulously works to preserve the shine on the other half by rubbing it on their clothes or by applying saliva (no \"external\" substances can be applied to alter the condition of the ball). Bowlers very carefully regulate their wrist position at the point of release to ensure the shine is preserved only on one half of the ball, since it will swing towards the rough side.\n\nThe old ball in cricket also tends to generate greater amounts of reverse swing, which is swing towards the polished side. This can be exploited by genuinely fast bowlers (usually, those who can bowl over ). Especially on pitches in the Indian sub-continent, which tend to have abrasive surfaces, bowlers might resort to bowling across the seam as early as the tenth over, so as to quickly scruff up the ball and generate reverse swing early on. Strategies that rely on early reverse swing also need the backup of effective spin bowlers to be able to exploit the roughed up ball.\n\nDue to these factors, a batsman in cricket needs to watch very carefully how the bowler grips the ball even during his run-up, as well as the type of revolutions on the ball as it approaches. Master spin bowlers like Shane Warne and Muttiah Muralitharan, who were able to dramatically vary the trajectory, direction and extent of spin, frequently bowled deliveries with a scrambled seam to disguise the type of ball actually bowled.\n\nIn cricket, since the strategies are greatly influenced by factors such as soil characteristics of the pitch, condition of the ball, time of the day, weather and atmospheric conditions, the decision to bat first or last is of great tactical importance.\n\nThe team that wins the coin toss has the choice of batting first or last. This choice can be crucial to success; particularly in Test cricket. As the pitch is used for up to five consecutive days with little maintenance, the deterioration of the pitch with wear can have a major influence on the result of the match (e.g., typically the ability of spin bowlers to \"turn\" the ball increases toward the end of a Test match, whereas fast bowlers often prefer a harder and bouncier pitch often found at the start of a match). It is usual for some amount of grass to be left on the pitch on the first day of a Test, since it helps bind the surface. The presence of grass on the pitch is conducive for pace bowling, so a grassy pitch may also tempt a captain to field first. Sometimes, weather conditions also influence the decision, since a cloud (especially overcast cloud) cover has been found to assist swing bowling. Aggressive captains such as Allan Border of Australia have been known to bat first in Test cricket regardless of the conditions.\n\nIn One Day International cricket, the time of day is also a crucial factor in determining the captain's decision at the toss. In some parts of the world, dew on the ground can be significant. In a day-night game, grounds in some countries like India or South Africa become wet due to dew, which makes it difficult for a spinner to grip the ball. The captain must balance this against a consideration for bowling becoming more effective under lights, since the ball might skid off any dew on the pitch or get assistance in swing from the cooler night-time air. Even for a day game, the captain might be inclined to exploit early morning dew on the pitch.\n\nIn baseball, on the other hand, the \"home\" team always bats last. This was not originally the case. In the early years, the winner of a coin toss could decide whether to bat first or last. The more offence-oriented aspect of the early game might influence a team's decision to bat first and hope to get a quick lead. This led to the occasional unfortunate situation where the home town crowd would have to watch their team lose a game in the last of the ninth inning, in \"sudden victory\" fashion by the visiting team. By the late 1800s, the rule was changed to compel the home team to bat last. At a \"neutral\" site, such as the College World Series, the \"home\" team may be decided by coin toss, but that \"home\" team must bat last.\n\nIn cricket, since the batsmen can hit the ball with greater variation and different objectives, the field placements are more important and varied. Modern-day coaches and captains have intricate knowledge of the strengths of opposition batsmen, so they try to plug the dominant scoring areas for each batsman. Moreover, since the bowling attack has greater variety in cricket, the field placements required for each type and line of attack also vary greatly.\n\nDepending on the scoring strengths of the batsman (off-side, leg-side, straight, square, front foot, back foot, power hitter, \"finds the gap\", \"clears the field\" and so on), the captain must make adjustments to the field each time the batting pair score a run and change ends, which can possibly happen after every ball in an over. To meet the demands of a speedy over-rate (typically, about 15 overs an hour), the captain must arrange the fielders in a way that they can swiftly interchange positions for the two batsmen. This is especially important if one batsman is right-handed, while the other is left-handed. And also in limited overs cricket if the umpires deem the over rate of the team fielding first is too slow they can dock them overs so they may have less than 20/50 overs to reach their target score when it is their turn to bat.\n\nFielders in cricket can field in all positions, but modern players have specialised field positions. In particular, slip positions require special skills since the slip fielder is placed behind the batsman and the ball comes directly off the edge of the bat. Close catching positions such as forward short leg and silly point, as well as positions for the cut shot such as gully and point, require very fast reflexes and canny anticipation, so they are also specialist positions. Conversely outfielders also can be specialist positions due to the need for a strong throwing arm.\n\nIn baseball, although only the positions of pitcher and catcher are prescribed by the rules, fielders' positions are dictated closely by custom, and shifts in fielders' positions according to circumstance are less dramatic; the strike zone and smaller angle of fair territory limit the usefulness of some strategies which cricket makes available to batsmen. The chief occasion on which fielding placement differs markedly from the usual is the presence of a \"pull\", or \"dead-pull\", hitter at bat (such hitters almost never, except on the rare occasion of a fluke or mishit, hit the ball in any direction except towards the same side of the field as they stand at the plate, i.e., a right-handed pull hitter hits everything toward left field). In such case the fielders will move so far in the direction of the pull that one half of the field is almost completely unprotected. This is called an infield shift or \"overshift\". A six-man infield has also been used when circumstances warrant. For the great majority of batters, however, the traditional fielding arrangement is used, with minor changes in position to accommodate the batter's power or bat-handling ability, the location of runners, or the number of outs. (For example, with a base runner on third with less than two out, the importance of fielders being able to throw quickly to home plate on a bunt is increased, and the infielders will play closer to home plate.) However, baseball has no equivalent of cricket's close-in fielders, because it is impractical to have fielders so close to the bat as they would have virtually no chance of latching onto a ball travelling so fast. It is possible to place a close-in fielder to catch a bunt, but this practice is almost never followed except in specialised circumstances such as a pitcher being forced to bat late in a game, with less than two outs and the opportunity to drive in a run. The team's best chance to score in such a situation may be to sacrifice bunt and may warrant the first or third baseman playing halfway up the line to cut off the run at home.\n\nIn cricket, coaches cannot intervene or direct gameplay; the captain must make all the calls once the players are out on the field. However, the coach may convey messages to the captain or the players at any time, since there is no restriction on signalling or speaking to players on the field. In dynamic situations, like a run chase with an imminent possibility of rain, it is quite common for coaches to update tactics using signals. Hansie Cronje, the former cricket captain of South Africa, once took the field with a wireless link to the coach, Bob Woolmer. Subsequently, the use of gadgets to transmit messages was banned by the International Cricket Council. Regardless, the coach is merely an adviser; it is almost always the case that the cricket captain has complete authority over the team once play starts. In baseball, by contrast, managers and coaches will often direct the players (through hand signals) to carry out a play (such as a stolen base or hit and run), or to field at a particular depth. In fact, \"stealing signs\" can play an important part in baseball strategy when a player on an opposing team tries to interpret hand signals between pitcher and catcher or between runner and base coach, and possibly then relay this information to another player without being themselves detected.\n\nIn both sports, strategy varies with the game situation. In baseball, pitcher, batter, and fielders all play far differently in the late innings of a close game (e.g., waiting for walks, trying for stolen bases or the squeeze play to score a decisive run) than they do early, or when one team has already scored many more runs than the other (where batters will be likely to swing at many more pitches and try for extra-base hits and even home runs). The number, speed, and position of baserunners, which have no equivalent in cricket, all dramatically change the strategies used by pitcher and batter. A runner on first base must decide how large a lead to take off the base—the larger the lead, the greater the chance of advancing on a stolen base or batted ball, but also the greater the risk of being picked off by the pitcher. In leagues which do not allow designated hitters, strategic thinking also enters into substitutions. For example, in the double switch, the substitution of a relief pitcher is combined with the substitution of a pinch hitter who takes the pitcher's spot in the batting order so that the new pitcher will come to bat later (as almost all pitchers are poor hitters much like most specialist bowlers are poor batsmen). Since players may not return to the game after being substituted for, a manager cannot take lightly the decision when and if to substitute a better-fielding but worse-hitting player if his team is ahead.\n\nAnother difference between baseball and cricket strategy is the importance of sacrifice plays in baseball. These are plays in which a batter deliberately hits in a particular way or in a particular direction to advance runner at the expense of himself getting out. For example, a poor batter may deliberately bunt (hit a low slow ball) a ball towards first base so that he will be easily put out, to ensure that a runner on second base will end up safe on third. A stronger batter may deliberately hit a long \"sacrifice fly\" that he knows will be caught (resulting in an out) so that a runner can make it home to score a run. This strategy results from the relative cheapness of individual outs in baseball and the relative importance of individual runs in baseball compared to cricket, where such a strategy would be foolish as runs cannot be scored when a wicket has fallen except in the case of a run-out (although if a batsman is caught and if he and the non-striker attempt a run and cross each other the new batsman must assume the non-striker's position).\n\nThe essential action in baseball is either (for the offence) to advance runners around the bases or (for the defence) to halt that advance. As simple as this is in principle, in practice it generates a remarkably large range of strategies. Any given situation—the number of runners on base, the bases they occupy, their skills as runners or base-stealers, the count on the hitter, the number of outs, the specialties of the pitcher and the batter, the catcher's skill at throwing out runners, the positioning of fielders, which inning is being played, and so on—allows for a considerable variety of possible plays, on either side of the ball. At any moment, one manager may be calculating how to advance his runners (whether to call for the steal, the hit-and-run, sacrifice bunt, sacrifice fly, a double steal, the squeeze, and so on) while the opposing manager is calculating how best to thwart his opponent (not only through the pitching approach and positioning of fielders, but by, say, calling for a pitch-out when a steal is anticipated, and so on). Since the variables that determine which strategies are possible or advisable change from pitch to pitch, and according to all the varieties of play situation that may come about in any game, the game played between the two managers is the most intricate aspect of the game, and for many followers of the sport is considered the true 'inner game'.\n\nFirst-class cricket also has a number of strategic elements not found in baseball, simply because the maximum time duration of the game is fixed (which can be up to five days for Test cricket) and a match not completed by the end of the time duration results in a draw regardless of the relative score (Although, in domestic competitions a 1st innings lead is beneficial a team's final standings). By contrast, baseball games are played to completion regardless of the time duration and there is no possibility for a tie or draw (with the exception of certain exhibition games such as the MLB All-Star Game, or in the case of Japan, where games are declared ties after 12 innings). There are no equivalents in baseball of, for example, deciding when to declare or whether or not to make your opponent follow on.\n\nThe condition of the playing strip (the pitch) in cricket is of vital significance as, unlike baseball, the ball more often than not is deliberately bounced on the pitch before reaching the batsman. While in baseball, playing conditions between different stadia are much the same (except for perhaps small differences in the dimensions of the field, whether the outfield is fast or slow, and if the field is grass or artificial turf), the physical characteristics of the cricket pitch can vary over the course of the game, or from one field to another, or from one country to another. On the Indian subcontinent, for instance, pitches tend to be dry, dusty and soft. These pitches offer less assistance to fast bowlers because the ball tends to bounce slower and lower, where most fast bowlers rely on bounce and speed to defeat the batsman. On the other hand, spin bowlers prefer this surface because it gives greater traction to the ball and will result in the ball breaking or turning more when it hits the surface. When such a delivery is bowled, the ball is said to have \"turned\". Conversely, pitches in places such as Australia, England, South Africa, and the West Indies tend to be hard, true surfaces, called \"batting wickets\" or \"roads\" because the ball bounces uniformly and thus batsman find it easier to score runs, although these wickets suit fast bowlers more than spinners. Accordingly, teams are generally much harder to beat in their own country, where both their batsmen and bowlers are presumably suited to the types of pitches encountered there. On any given pitch, however, conditions will become more suitable for spinners as time progresses as the pitch becomes softer and worn through use, making the spin bowler something of a cricketing \"closer\". The pitch can be cleaned of debris and rolled between innings, and should be mowed before each day's play at the discretion of the umpires. But the pitch cannot be watered once the match has started (unless it rains which can happen at a time when nobody can cover the pitch). Its characteristics can therefore change during the game, and can be a major factor in deciding whether to bat or field first.\n\nBaseball parks are also not completely uniform, however many of the variations in playing conditions in baseball also arise in cricket. Stadiums with retractable roofs, for example, usually play differently with and without the roof. For example, with the roof open the wind will affect how far the ball carries. Against a running team the basepaths may be heavily watered. Many stadiums have idiosyncratic features – for example, the short right field and high left field wall (called the Green Monster) at Fenway Park, the hill and flagpole in the outfield (Tal's Hill) at Minute Maid Park, or numerous \"porches\" (parts of the grandstands hanging over the outfield, such as the \"Short Porch in Right\" at Yankee Stadium) which allow short home runs. There is an equivalent for this in cricket, where the placement of the pitch may render one perpendicular boundary significantly shorter than the other. For example, in a particular game, the leg-side boundary may be 15 feet closer to the batsman than the off-side boundary. Such a boundary can then be targeted by batmen in search of quick runs.\n\nThe baseball behaves differently in those stadiums with artificial turf as well. Artificial surfaces are harder and more uniform than grass, and the ball tends to roll farther and straighter, and to bounce truer and more highly on these fields. Teams built to play the majority of their games on this field tend to place a higher premium on defence (since it is more likely to get an infield out) and speed (since it is more important to be able to beat out a throw) than on power hitting. The altitude of the stadium (most notably Coors Field) can also impact the distance a batted ball travels and the amount of ball movement a pitcher can generate with his deliveries, although recently balls have begun being placed in humidors at high-altitude parks to negate these effects. The amount of moisture in the dirt on the basepaths can also affect the behaviour of ground balls and the ease with which players may steal bases; some teams are known to alter the amount of watering done to the dirt depending on the skills of the home and visiting team. The amount of foul territory is also an important variable, since foul pop-ups that would be outs in some parks (e.g., the Oakland Coliseum) may end up in the stands in other parks, thereby allowing the batter to remain at the plate (e.g., Fenway Park and Coors Field). On the whole, though, these variations do not produce effects as great as variations in cricket pitches, with one arguable exception being Coors Field.\n\nIn general, the condition of the pitch is a much greater factor in cricket than in baseball, while at the professional level stadium shape and quirks permanently built into the playing surface are greater factors in baseball than in cricket. Note that in amateur cricket pitches may have considerable variation in shape and may even incorporate obstacles (like tree roots), but this is not considered desirable or ideal. In baseball, familiarity with distinct field layout is considered to be an important part of having home-field advantage.\n\nThe batting order in baseball must be declared before the game begins, and can only be changed if a substitution occurs. Batting out of turn is a rule violation resulting in a penalty. When a manager makes a substitution, the new player must occupy the same place in the batting order as the old one. To allow more complicated changes in batting order, managers may use the double switch, substituting for two players simultaneously. This is typically used to replace the pitcher but put the new pitcher in a spot in the batting order that will not come up to bat soon, previously occupied by another fielder (pitchers are almost uniformly poor hitters much like most specialist bowlers are poor batsmen). However, the rule remains that no individual player can ever change his position in the batting order within the same game.\n\nUnlike baseball, the batting order in cricket is not fixed, and can be changed at any time, provided each player bats at most once per innings. This gives rise to the \"pinch hitter\" in cricket – a non-specialist batsman promoted up the order to get quick runs – and the Nightwatchman. This latter is typically a lower-order batsman put in to bat near the end of the day to avoid a better batsman having to make two cold starts, a particular risk. If a batsman is not ready to bat at the fall of a wicket, another batsman, typically the player who occupies the next spot in the batting order, will go out to bat in his place, to avoid the risk of the original batsman being timed out.\n\nThe roles of individual players in the batting order are strikingly similar. In both sports, the players near the top of the batting order are considered superior batters or batsmen. The initial batters or batsmen generally specialise in avoiding making outs/losing their wicket, while the third through fifth batters and batsmen are considered their team's best at providing runs. After that, the talent generally drops off, with the pitchers and bowlers generally being the worst at batting. Because outs are less important in baseball than in cricket, poorer batters are sometimes asked to attempt a \"sacrifice\" play in which they deliberately get themselves out in baseball to achieve a bigger team goal. This only occasionally happens in cricket, at the end of a limited-overs game, when a poorer batsman may sacrifice himself so that his partner will be on-strike for the next delivery. Also, since in baseball a batter who puts the ball in play does not get another at-bat until the entire batting order is cycled through, the opposing team may \"pitch around\" a skilled batter, deliberately walking him so that another batter comes to the plate. In cricket, a batsman remains at the pitch until he is out (or the team is all out, or his captain declares, or the set number of overs have been bowled), and the other team must bowl to him until he is out. The only way captains can negate the influence of superior batters similar to \"pitching around\" is to try to keep the more skilled batsman \"off-strike\". This can be seen at the end of closely fought matches, where a captain might try and maximise the number of deliveries his bowlers can bowl at a non-specialist batsman. The exception is if the player is injured and has to leave the field for treatment: the next batsman in the order will then take his place. If the original batsman is able to continue later on, he can join the game again when one of his team's batsmen is out provided his injury time has expired or after 5 wickets have fallen, whichever comes first provided the rest of the team is not bowled out before either of these situations arise.\n\nBaseball players use thin, round bats and wear gloves to field (with the catcher wearing a special, more protective glove), while cricketers use wide, flat bats and field barehanded (except for the wicket-keeper, who wears gloves and protective leg pads). Note that while baseball fielders' gloves do provide modest protection against impact, they are used primarily to extend reach and are generally not padded (except for the catcher's glove). In cricket a batsman wears protective gear such as pads, gloves, thigh pads, helmet, a chest guard, an arm pad and a box (A.K.A. a cup), whereas the only required protective gear for baseball batters is an unsecured helmet (as required in major league baseball rule 1.16); many batters also use elbow, shin, ankle, or hand protectors, and most wear a cup (A.K.A. a box) and use batting gloves (similar to golf gloves) to aid grip.\n\nAnother difference between the two sports involves the condition of the ball as a match progresses. In cricket, if a ball is hit into the stands, the spectators must return it to the field. Also, a ball that is scuffed or scratched will continue in use; a ball must be used for a minimum number of overs (currently 80 in Test cricket and 25 in One-Day-International cricket with a different ball being used from each end) before it can be replaced. If a ball is damaged, lost, or illegally modified, it is replaced by a \"used\" ball of similar condition to the old one. Finally, cricketers are allowed sparingly to modify the ball, though this is highly restricted. The ball may be polished (usually on a player's uniform) without the use of an artificial substance, may be dried with a towel if it is wet, and may have mud removed from it under supervision; all other actions which alter the condition of the ball are illegal. In Major League Baseball (MLB), a ball that is hit into the stands is never returned to play and spectators are free to keep any balls that come into their possession (although local tradition may provide for a ball to be thrown back, specifically in the case of home-run balls hit against the Chicago Cubs when playing at Wrigley Field).\n\nMoreover, baseballs are replaced on a regular interval during the course of a game. Major League Baseball requires the home team to supply the baseballs that will be used during that day's games. MLB further require that the home team make available at least 90 new baseballs to the umpires prior to the start of the game. Generally, a baseball is replaced every time it either is hit by a batter or touches the ground. In a typical Major League Baseball game, baseballs are replaced every five pitches or so with a total game average of around 70 baseballs being used.\n\nBecause baseball hitting is difficult, baseball rules prohibit the deliberate scratching or scuffing of a ball, or the application of any foreign substance that could conceivably affect the flight or visibility of a ball. Balls that are deliberately made more difficult to hit by applying foreign substances are often known as spitballs, regardless of the specific substance applied (such as Vaseline). Both spitballs and those that become scuffed or scratched through normal game play are immediately removed from play and never reused. The current rules regarding the condition of baseballs did not come into effect until 1920, after the death of Ray Chapman from being hit with a Carl Mays spitball. Before that point, the rules were similar to those still present in cricket. However, the new rules were not consistently enforced for several decades afterwards, and several pitchers (most notably Gaylord Perry) built careers around skirting these rules, doing such things as hiding nail files in their gloves or putting Vaseline on the underside of the peaks of their caps. In modern baseball, however, the prohibition against modifying the baseball in almost any way is strictly enforced and players found to be in violation of this rule are not only ejected from the game in which the infraction occurred, but are also subject to a suspension. The only substance applied to a baseball is the Delaware River mud formula that umpires rub in before a game to remove the \"shine\" from the ball and improve its grip. The pitcher is also allowed to use rosin on his hands (via a rosin bag) to improve his grip, and to blow on his hands in cold weather.\n\nBoth games have a long history of using a vast array of statistics. The scorers are directed by the hand signals of an umpire. Every play or delivery is logged, and from the log, or scoresheet, is derived a summary report. Baseball commonly uses times at bat, base hits, RBIs, stolen bases, errors, strikeouts and other occurrences. These are then often used to rate the player. In cricket, commonly used individual player statistics for batsman include batting average, strike rate (mainly used in limited overs cricket), and number of 50 and 100 run scores made during an innings. For bowlers, bowling average, economy rate (most relevant to limited overs cricket), career wickets taken and number of five wicket hauls are commonly cited. Although cricket uses detailed statistics as a guide, owing to the variety of situations in cricket, they are not always considered a true reflection of the player. Ian Botham is an example of a player who, despite relatively poor averages, was particularly noted as one of England's greatest cricketers for his ability to dominate games.\n\nHenry Chadwick (1824–1908) was an English-born American sportswriter, pioneer baseball statistician and historian, often called the \"father of baseball\". Before he first came across organised baseball in 1856, he was a cricket reporter for \"The New York Times\" and player of cricket and similar ball games such as rounders.\n\nIn baseball, questioning of the validity and utility of conventional baseball statistics has led to the creation of the field of sabermetrics, which assesses alternatives to conventional statistics. Conclusions are sometimes drawn from inadequate samples – for example, an assertion that a batter has done poorly against a specific pitcher, when they have only faced each other a handful of times, or that a player is \"clutch\" due to having more success with runners in scoring position or during the late innings with rather small sample sizes.\n\nBoth sports play an important part in the cultures of the societies in which they are popular. Baseball is deeply ingrained in the American psyche, and is known in the United States as \"the national pastime\". It is one of the sports most readily identified with the United States. Baseball references abound in American English, and the sport is well represented in American cinema in numerous baseball movies. Baseball also plays an important cultural role in many parts of Latin America, (specifically Cuba, Dominican Republic, Mexico, Puerto Rico and Venezuela), as well as in East Asia. Many terms and expressions from the sport have entered the English lexicon. Examples are \"getting to first base,\" \"out of left field\", \"having two strikes against him/her\", \"swinging for the fences\", \"he struck out\", \"that's a home run\", and \"southpaw\" (baseball diamonds are traditionally built with home plate to the west so hitters do not have to fight the setting sun as well as the pitch, a pitcher's left arm is always to the south).\n\nCricket has an equally strong influence on the culture of many nations, mainly Commonwealth nations, including England, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Kenya, Zimbabwe, the English-speaking Caribbean and especially in the Indian-subcontinent where it is often said to be followed like a religion. Canada has seen a marked increase in domestic, as well as interest in international cricket, over the past decade. This can be attributed, in large part, to the growing subcontinental diaspora in Canada. Cricket is the most popular sport or a major sport in most former British Colonies. Like baseball, cricket has had an influence on the lexicon of these nations with such phrases as \"that's not cricket\" (unfair), \"had a good innings\", \"sticky wicket\", \"hitting for six\", \"played with a straight bat\" and \"bowled over\".\n\nThe twelve Test-playing nations regularly participate in tours of other nations to play usually both a Test and One Day International series. Twenty20 is becoming more popular in international competition. The amateur game has also been spread further afield by expatriates from the Test-playing nations. Many of these minor cricketing nations (including the USA and Canada and other nations, such as the Netherlands, which do not have a British heritage) compete to qualify for the Cricket World Cup. The very first international cricket match was played between the USA and Canada in 1844.\n\nBaseball in a similar way has also been spread around the world, most notably in Central America and East Asia. Canadian baseball developed as a minor league sport in parallel to the US major leagues before eventually joining them, first with the Montreal Expos in 1969 (now the Washington Nationals) and then with the Toronto Blue Jays in 1977. Serious domestic leagues are found in many nations including Japan, South Korea, Cuba, Venezuela, Mexico, and the Dominican Republic, and players routinely move across countries to join professional baseball teams. However, baseball does not have a robust tradition of national teams or professional international competition, although this is slowly becoming more popular around the world with the emergence of competitions like the World Baseball Classic. There have been several Australian Major League Baseball players, a country where cricket is more popular by far.\n\nThe nature of the top elite level in both sports differs markedly. Nearly all cricket revenue comes from international matches, and domestic leagues serve largely as a development ground for international players. By contrast nearly all baseball revenue comes from domestic leagues, most notably in the United States and Japan.\n\nCricket's international programme allows the weaker cricketing nations to play against the best in the world, and the players have the chance to become national heroes. On the other hand, the dominance of national teams also means that a great many talented cricketers in nations such as Australia and India will never receive recognition or prestige unless they make it into the national team.\n\nStandards of sportsmanship differ. In cricket, the standard of sportsmanship has historically been considered so high that the phrase \"It's just not cricket\" was coined in the 19th century to describe unfair or underhanded behaviour in any walk of life. In the last few decades though, top-level cricket has become increasingly fast-paced and competitive, increasing the use of appealing and sledging, although players are still expected to abide by the umpires' rulings without argument, and for the most part they do. Even in the modern game fielders are known to signal to the umpire that a boundary was hit, despite what could have been a spectacular save (though they may well be found out by the TV umpire anyway) and also signal if they did not take a catch even if it appeared that they did. In addition, many cricket batsmen \"walk\" when they think they are out, even if the umpire does not declare them out. This is considered a very high level of sportsmanship, as a batsman might easily take advantage of incorrect umpiring decisions; but with the introduction of the decision review system this has become more difficult (in games when the system is in use). The \"Spirit of Cricket\" was added as a preamble to the Laws in 2000, declaring that \"Cricket is a game that owes much of its unique appeal to the fact that it should be played not only within its Laws but also within the Spirit of the Game. Any action which is seen to abuse this Spirit causes injury to the game itself\".\n\nIn baseball, a player correcting an umpire's call to his own team's detriment is unheard of, at least at the professional level. Individual responsibility and vigilance are part of the game's tradition. It is the umpire's responsibility to make the right call, and matters of judgment are final. Similarly, when a runner misses a base or leaves too early on a caught fly ball, the umpire keeps silent, as it is the fielder's responsibility to know where the runners are and to make an appeal. When a fielder pretends not to know where the ball is (the \"hidden ball trick\"), the umpire keeps silent, as it is the runner's responsibility to know where the ball is.\n\nIn baseball, celebrating an out, stealing bases when well ahead, or smiling on the field when well ahead are considered serious breaches of sportsmanship. Possibly the most serious breach of sportsmanship is the pitcher's throwing behind the batter, since batters often react to a pitch that may hit them by backing up.\n\n"}
{"id": "987101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=987101", "title": "Comparison of instant messaging clients", "text": "Comparison of instant messaging clients\n\nInstant messaging was created in July 1996 by Yair Goldfinger, Arik Vardi, Sefi Vigiser, and Amnon Amir, when they started a company called Mirabilis in order to introduce a new way of communication over the Internet. The current landscape for instant messaging involves cross-platform instant messaging clients that can handle one or multiple protocols so that internet users can communicate with multiple users at the same time. The following tables compare general and technical information for a number of instant messaging clients. See the individual products' articles for further information. External links may lead to extensions that add a feature to a client.\n\nThe operating systems the clients can run on without emulation or compatibility layers.\n\nInformation on what features each of clients support.\n\nThe following table is an overview of instant messaging clients that provide end-to-end encryption. Some of the listed client applications do not provide end-to-end encryption by default. These clients may require that users install a separate plugin, turn on a setting, or use an optional mode. In these cases, the encryption-related information in this table is only applicable when the encryption is enabled.\n\nThe following table is an overview of those Instant Messenger clients which provide client-to-server encryption. It does not include clients that also provide end-to-end encryption.\n\nThe following is a list of those Instant Messenger clients which do not provide client-to-server encryption:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44070151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44070151", "title": "Compcorp Ltd v Force Entertainment Ltd", "text": "Compcorp Ltd v Force Entertainment Ltd\n\nCompcorp Ltd v Force Entertainment Ltd (2003) 7 NZBLC 103,996 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding terms implied by the Courts to give \"business efficacy\" to a contract that would have otherwise been unworkable. It effectively upholds the English case of The Moorcock into New Zealand law.\n\nCompcorp Limited constructed the Force Entertainment Centre in Auckland, for Force Entertainment Limited, for which a firm called MTM were helping finance by purchasing FEC shares.\nFEC had paid all but the remaining $1,577,000, but as MTM had not purchased the shares, FEC were unable to pay this, and they were in litigation with MTM to require them to honour their share purchase agreement.\nIn the meantime, FEC entered into an agreement to pay Compcorp this amount, when MTM finally purchased the FEC shares.\nThe relevant clause in this agreement was as follows:\n“The balance of any Sum Outstanding will be paid to CL by Force on the sale and settlement (and no later than within 48 hours of that Settlement) of the Force Entertainment Centre by Force.”\n\nHowever, later a problem developed that FEC eventually settled its legal action with MTM, with MTM paying compensation in cash, without being required to purchase FEC shares.\nAs a result, FEC denied liability for the $1,577,000 on the basis that MTM did not purchase FEC shares, which was a condition of the settlement agreement.\nCompcorp sued.\n\nThe Court held that the sale of the shares was merely a date for payment, not a condition of liability. If the shares were not purchased, it was implied that FEC would obtain monies from other sources. Gault P stated “There could hardly be a clearer case for giving a commercial contract business efficacy”.\n"}
{"id": "37558540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37558540", "title": "Dealchecker", "text": "Dealchecker\n\ndealchecker is a UK-based travel comparison website. The site does not sell any flights or holidays but provides users with a variety of search tools which enables them to compare prices between competing travel companies. dealchecker initially launched as a flight search engine, working on a pay-per-click (PPC) model with its partners. New search tools were added in subsequent years including hotel search in 2008 and cruise search in 2012.\nIn addition to online search tools, dealchecker publishes a weekly newsletter highlighting 20 travel deals, which are all vetted by researchers at dealchecker.\n\ndealchecker is the first website developed by DMC digital. dealchecker experienced early success in the years following its launch – particularly in July 2007, when the site achieved a 102% increase in web traffic and was awarded second place in the Best Travel Website category at the 2007 Telegraph Travel Awards. \nIn November 2010, dealchecker launched a new, luxury travel club, Secret Escapes. \nThe company was purchased in 2011 by French online travel publishers EasyVoyage. This prompted a change in management as Saint and Collins left to develop Secret Escapes. Mark Attwell joined dealchecker as managing director from his previous position as e-commerce chief at comparethemarket.com \n\n\n"}
{"id": "408682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408682", "title": "Declaration of Independence of Lower Canada", "text": "Declaration of Independence of Lower Canada\n\nThe Declaration of Independence of Lower Canada () was written in French by the patriot rebel Robert Nelson on February 22, 1838, while in exile in the United States, after the first rebellion of 1837.\n\nThe 1838 declaration was primarily inspired by the 1776 United States Declaration of Independence and the 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, but it also included some other political ideas that were popular in the 19th century. The movement for the independence of Lower Canada (today Quebec) ultimately failed, as it did not result in the creation of an independent nation-state. \n\n...\"whereas we can no longer suffer the repeated violations of our most dearest rights, and patiently support the advanced outrages and cruelties of the Government of Lower Canada,\"\n\n\"WE, in the name of the people of Lower Canada, acknowledging the decrees of a Divine Providence, which permits us to put down a Government, which hath abused the object and intention for which it was created, and to make choice of that form of Government which shall re-establish the empire of justice — assure domestic tranquility — provide for common defense — promote general good, and secure to us and our posterity the advantages of civil and religious liberty,\"\n\n\"SOLEMNLY DECLARE:—\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19963268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19963268", "title": "Dudley Leavitt (publisher)", "text": "Dudley Leavitt (publisher)\n\nDudley Leavitt (1772 – September 20, 1851) was an American publisher. He was an early graduate of Phillips Exeter Academy in his native town of Exeter, New Hampshire, and later moved to Gilmanton where he first edited a newspaper and taught school. Within a few years, Leavitt relocated to Meredith, where in addition to teaching school and farming, he began publishing in 1797 \"Leavitt's Farmers Almanack\", one of the nation's earliest farmers' almanacs. A polymath, Leavitt poured his knowledge of disparate fields including mathematics, language and astronomy into the wildly popular almanacs, which outlived their creator, being published until 1896. The inaugural issue of 1797 carried the title of \"The New England Calendar: Or, Almanack for the Year of Our Lord 1797\". On the cover was the disclaimer that the new publication was \"Calculated for the Meridian of Concord, Latitude 43° 14' N. Longitude 72° 45' W.: And with But Little Variation Will Answer for Any of the New England States.\"\n\nDudley Leavitt was born at Exeter, the oldest child of farmer and landowner Joshua Leavitt and Elizabeth (née James). He was named after Governor Thomas Dudley, the second colonial governor of Massachusetts, from whom both parents descended. The descendant of early Exeter settlers, his father Joshua moved from Exeter to Deerfield early in Dudley Leavitt's life. After attending Exeter Academy, where he graduated in 1790, Leavitt married Judith Glidden of Gilmanton in 1794, and he and his new wife took up residence in the town, where he had family. In Gilmanton, Leavitt began studying Latin and Greek under Rev. Isaac Smith. In 1802 Leavitt also served as a selectman for the town.\n\nLeavitt's first love was mathematics and astronomy. Something of a pure scientist, Leavitt contributed scientific papers to societies until the end of his life, often having to do with astronomy and physics. The annual conventions of the American Philosophical Society often heard presentations of the latest of Leavitt's findings. Nor were Leavitt's the musings of some crackpot New Hampshire hermit. In an 1811 paper concerning astronomy addressed to the President and membership of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, for instance, Leavitt outlined his \"New and short Method of calculating the times of the First and Last Quarters of the Moon\".\n\nBut with his scholarly inquiries and meager publishing income, Leavitt turned to teaching to supplement his income. In 1800 he founded the \"Gilmanton Gazette\", a local weekly newspaper in Gilmanton, as well as the \"Farmer's Weekly Magazine\" for two years with a partner in the newly established publishing house of \"Leavitt & Clough\". Leavitt's foray into newspaper publishing was an apparent failure, but he was pioneer of the industry in the state. The presses used to print his early broadsheet were purchased by the proprietors of the new \"Concord Gazette\" in 1806, who paid to have the presses lugged from Gilmanton to Concord on a two-horse wagon so they could begin printing one of the capital's earliest newspapers, and the only competitor of \"The New Hampshire Patriot\".\n\nDiscouraged with the economics of newspaper publishing, Leavitt and his wife decided to move to Meredith in 1819. Pursuing another avenue of work, Leavitt ran an advertisement in the Concord \"Observer\" newspaper announcing that he was opening the \"Meredith Academick School\". The new school, its headmaster announced, would \"offer instruction in the various grades usually taught in academies... No pains will be spared on the part of the instructor to render the acquisition of useful knowledge easy and pleasant to those young gentlemen and ladies who may attend the School.\"\n\nThe \"reasonable\" board would cost $3.00 for each quarter's enrolment, Leavitt announced in his initial advertisement, and would cover most fields of study, except \"Algebra, Navigation, Gunnery, or the Science of Projectiles, &c., Spherick Geometry & Trigonometry, Astronomy & Philosophy.\" For study in those more complicated fields Leavitt proposed to charge an additional 50 cents tuition for each quarter of enrolment. Around Meredith the new schoolmaster became known as \"Old Master Leavitt\".\n\nLeavitt settled on his Meredith farm near Center Harbor, less than a mile from Lake Winnipesaukee, where he held his classes. He was known as a stern taskmaster who did not suffer fools, or wisecracking students. But Leavitt had enough of a sense of whimsy that he handpainted panels of \"Award of Merit\" to those students he felt met his stringent guidelines. (Leavitt never gave up teaching, even when busying himself with his almanac and other projects. He taught school into his 70s, and it was customary in New Hampshire for successful men to boast that they had been educated by Leavitt.)\n\nWhen not teaching, he was to be found farming his or immersed in study. Stories were legion of Leavitt so immersed in reading or study that he was oblivious to nearly everything around him. And the scholar Leavitt was no gentleman farmer. Aside from having edited a newspaper devoted to agriculture, Leavitt raised cattle on his small farm and toiled long hours when not teaching or writing.\n\nOut of the confluence of Leavitt's scholarly interests, his former career as a newspaper writer and publisher, and his work as an author of textbooks was born the idea behind his farmer's almanac, which he first began publishing while living in Gilmanton. From the beginning, Leavitt demonstrated an unrelenting common sense, as well as a sly sense of humor. In an early edition of his almanacs, for instance, Leavitt included an illustration of a New Hampshireman struggling against the elements. Quoting a supposed poem of the 17th century, Leavitt wrote, in lines summoning feelings familiar to current Granite State residents, \"Our mountains and hills and our vallies (sic) below; Being commonly cover'd with ice and with snow; And when the north-west wind with violence blows, Then every man pulls his cap over his nose; But if any's so hardy, and will it withstand, He forfeits a finger, a foot or a hand.\"\n\nLeavitt continued to publish the eponymous almanac after he moved to Meredith. He had already founded a newspaper in 1811, while still living in Gilmanton, which he called \"The New Hampshire Register\", and which he continued publishing for several years (1811–17). The \"Register\" became well-known thanks to Leavitt's habit of printing brief synopses of historical events. On the side, between farming, teaching school, and publishing his newspaper, Leavitt wrote and published at least eight textbooks on mathematics, grammar, astronomy, geography and music, including an edition of Nicolas Pike's widely distributed \"A New and Complete System of Arithmetic\" in 1826, as well as the staple textbooks of teachers across the nation \"The Scholar's Review\" and \"Teacher's Daily Assistant\". The scores of textbooks produced by Leavitt, a dizzying array of titles down the years, including \"Complete Directions for Parsing the English Language; Or, The Rules of Grammar Made Easy: Being a New Grammatical Essay, Designed as a Supplement to Lindley Murray's Grammar, for the Use of Students as Soon as They Begin to Parse\", make one wonder where Leavitt found the time.\n\nBut the almanac, which he dubbed \"Leavitt's Farmers' Almanack and Miscellaneous Yearbook\", became such a success that after a while Leavitt shelved many of his other activities to focus on it. The once-farfetched idea was a runaway hit. By 1846, for instance, Leavitt's almanacs were selling some 60,000 copies for that year's two editions – a tremendous number for the era.\n\nWhat Leavitt seized on, probably because of his interest in astronomy, was something every New Englander knew: that the weather was topic number one. Leavitt's publication, with its interest in astronomy and crops, was an early \"Weather Channel\". He took note of inclement and especially of freakish weather. And readers noticed. During the cold summer of 1816, when crops froze in July, and snow fell a foot deep in the Berkshires, Leavitt turned to his astronomy to divine the cause: he attributed the cold to sun spots. Had he known about it, Leavitt might have suggested the eruption of Mount Tambora in the East Indies as the cause. But whatever the cause was, readers noticed that Leavitt noticed and hazarded a guess, at least, and one that sounded plausible, at least to their ears. Of such stuff are circulation gains made.\n\nUltimately the schoolteacher and part-time farmer Leavitt came to be seen as \"Leavitt the almanac-maker\", as he was often referred to in his day, and in the ultimate tribute, his once-anonymous almanacs came to carry the creator's name. In an early instance of \"brand identity\", by 1824 the almanacs carried the title of \"Leavitt's New-England Farmer's Almanack\". During his era, improbably enough, Dudley Leavitt was as close to a celebrity as the times produced. \"Through his almanacs,\" noted Joseph Walker, as close a biographer as the almanac-compiler ever had, \"(Leavitt) was probably known to more persons in New Hampshire than any other man.\"\n\nThe aura of celebrity around Leavitt was such, wrote Henry McFarland in his \"Sixty Years in Concord and Elsewhere\", that \"stage-drivers pointed out his house to passengers as that of a person of great renown... I remember him as a courtly man with gentle manners.\" John F. Brown, a local printer for whom McFarland worked, published Leavitt's almanacs, paying the unheard-of sum, said McFarland, of \"$100 for the copy.\"\n\nLeavitt aimed the almanacs at the general population of New England, supplying tips on everything from farming to the weather to astronomy. As word spread about the publication, readership jumped, and the publication became a fixture throughout the region. The almanacs were sold at general stores, and later at grocery stores and drug stores. Leavitt was aided in some of the almanac's calculations geared towards agriculture by his nephew, astronomer William B. Leavitt.\n\nThe almanac's entry of September 6, 1881, for instance, published after the founder's death, demonstrated the detailed observation of natural phenomena which marked the publication. \"Tuesday, September 6, 1881, was remarkable over the whole of New England and may be known as Yellow Day. It was so dark in many places that artificial light was needed for the common acts of indoor life. Without, the dense curtains of smoke or dry fog that shut out the sun, gave a peculiar yellow hue to the atmosphere, changing the color of the trees and grass, perplexing the birds and other animals and seriously frightening the superstitious. It will long be remembered.\"\n\nDespite his descent from Puritan John Leavitt, founding deacon of Old Ship Church, America's oldest in continuous use, Dudley Leavitt was a skeptic. Perhaps it was his academic and scientific nature, but Leavitt was known throughout the Meredith area for his scoffing at religion. At one session of evening prayer, for instance, Leavitt's wife offered up a fervent prayer that her husband scholar be saved. When she was done, Leavitt got up, put on his hat and said \"We read in God's word, that the unbelieving husband shall be justified by the prayers of the believing wife,\" and marched out of the church.\n\nLeavitt died at his farm in Meredith on September 20, 1851. At the time of his death, Leavitt had the upcoming issue of his almanac at the press, and another five years' worth of issues of his almanac written, calculated and ready for the printer. The feat was so impressive to fellow writers and printers that one contemporary journal was moved to declare: \"This is a degree of punctuality, of which there are few examples, especially in the editorship of a periodical work.\"\n\n\"The New York Times\" carried news of the death of the man who had become something of a quiet sensation, known for the paper almanacs which hung by cords in family kitchens across New England. \"Dudley Leavitt, the veteran almanac maker, died this morning\", noted \"The Times\". \"His age was 80.\" Leavitt was buried in the Leavitt private burial ground on the family farm near his home. His beloved almanac, for which he did all the calculations and writing, outlived him. It continued to be published in Concord until 1896 – 45 years after its founder's death. William B. Leavitt edited the publication following his father's death.\n\nLeavitt's publication, notes the New Hampshire historical marker delineating the site of Leavitt's farm and school, \"provided information vital to domestic and agricultural life of the period. He lived in a house 200 yards east.\" The almanac was one of the longest-running such publications in the history of the nation. The \"Old Farmer's Almanac\", which first appeared in 1792, five years ahead of Leavitt's almanac, was the Meredith schoolteacher's chief competitor, and has been published continuously ever since – making it the oldest continuously published periodical in North America.\n\nThe New Hampshire Historical Society in Concord owns a painting of Dudley Leavitt, to which local citizens contributed towards the purchase, including former Governor Charles H. Bell and diplomat George G. Fogg, both of whom were connected to Leavitt through his Gilman ancestors. Leavitt and his wife had 11 children, two of whom married Congregational missionaries to Thailand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51933797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51933797", "title": "Durham v. United States (1954)", "text": "Durham v. United States (1954)\n\nDurham v. United States, 214 F.2d 862 (D.C. Cir. 1954), is a criminal case articulating what became known as the Durham rule for juries to find a defendant is not guilty by reason of insanity, that \"an accused is not criminally responsible if his unlawful act was the product of mental disease or mental defect\". It was to enable psychiatrists to \"inform the jury of the character of [the defendant's mental disease\" so that a jury could be \"guided by wider horizons of knowledge concerning mental life\";. so that juries could make determinations based on expert testimony about the disease. It was patterned on \"State v. Pike\". It was adopted by only two states, for a short time, but has and continues to be influential on debate over legal insanity. The decision was criticized for leaving a jury with no standard to judge impairment of reason or control, did not define mental disease, and left the jury dependent on expert testimony.\n"}
{"id": "11051981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11051981", "title": "Encyclopedia of Analytical Chemistry", "text": "Encyclopedia of Analytical Chemistry\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Analytical Chemistry is an English-language multivolume encyclopedia published by John Wiley & Sons.\n\nIt is a comprehensive analytical chemistry reference, covering all aspects from theory and instrumentation through applications and techniques. Containing over 600 articles and over 6500 illustrations the 15-volume print edition published in 2000. The encyclopedia has also been available online since the end of 2006. Online access to the complete encyclopedia requires a subscription or one-time purchase, but individual articles can be accessed by pay-per-view. Free sample articles are also available.\n\n"}
{"id": "1216675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1216675", "title": "Erya", "text": "Erya\n\nThe Erya or Erh-ya is the oldest surviving Chinese dictionary or Chinese encyclopedia known. Bernhard Karlgren (1931: 49) concluded that \"the major part of its glosses must reasonably date from\" the 3rd century BC.\n\nChinese scholars interpret the first title character \"ěr\" (爾; \"you, your; adverbial suffix\") as a phonetic loan character for the homophonous \"ěr\" (邇; \"near; close; approach\"), and believe the second \"yǎ\" (雅; \"proper; correct; refined; elegant\") refers to words or language. According to W. South Coblin: \"The interpretation of the title as something like 'approaching what is correct, proper, refined' is now widely accepted\" (1993:94). It has been translated as \"The Literary Expositor\" or \"The Ready Rectifier\" (both by James Legge), \"Progress Towards Correctness\" (A. von Rosthorn), and \"The Semantic Approximator\" (Needham et al.).\n\nThe book's author is unknown. Although it is traditionally attributed to the Duke of Zhou, Confucius, or his disciples, scholarship suggests that someone compiled and edited diverse glosses from commentaries to pre-Qin texts, especially the \"Shijing\". Joseph Needham et al. (1986: 191) place the \"Erya\"'s compilation between the late 4th and early 2nd centuries BCE, with the possible existence of some core text material dating back to the 6th century BCE, and the continued additions to the text as late as the 1st century BCE.\n\nThe first attempts to date the different parts of the \"Erya\" separately began when the Tang scholar Lu Deming (556-627) suggested that the Duke of Zhou only compiled the \"Shigu\" chapter (1), while the rest of the text dated from later (Needham 1986: 190). The Japanese historian and sinologist Naitō Torajirō analyzed the \"Erya\" text and concluded it originated in the early Warring States period, with the Jixia Academy having a considerable hand in it from c. 325 BCE onwards, and the text was enlarged and stabilized during the Qin and Western Han dynasty. Naitō connects the \"Shigu\" chapter (1) with the first generations of the Confucian School (450-400 BCE), places the family relationships, astronomy, and meteorology chapters (4-8) in the time of Xun Ching 荀卿 (300-230 BCE) with additions as late as 90 BCE, allocates the geographical chapters (9-12) to the late Warring States, Qin, and beginning of Han (300-200 BCE), puts the natural history chapters (13-18) between 300 and 160 BCE, and ascribes the last chapter (19) on domestic animals to the time of Emperor Wen or Emperor Jing of Han (180 to 140 BCE).\n\nThe \"Erya\" was considered the authoritative lexicographic guide to Chinese classic texts during the Han Dynasty, and it was officially categorized as one of the Thirteen Confucian Classics during the Song Dynasty. Although the only ancient \"Erya\" commentary that has come down to us is the (c. 310) \"Erya zhu\" (爾雅注, \"\"Erya\" Commentary\") by Guo Pu (276–324), there were a number of others, including the (early 1st century) \"Erya Fanshi zhu\" (爾雅樊氏注, \"Mr. Fan's \"Erya\" Commentary\") by Liu Xin, and the (late 3rd century) \"Erya Yinyi\" (爾雅音義, \"Sounds and Meanings of \"Erya\") by Sun Yan, which popularized the \"fanqie\" system of pronunciation glosses (Needham 1986: 191).\n\nMost of these texts about the \"Erya\" were still extant in the Tang dynasty (618-907) but had disappeared by the Song dynasty (960-1279), when there was a revival of interest in the \"Erya\" (Needham 1986: 192). The Northern Song dynasty scholar Xing Bing (邢昺) wrote the (c. 1000) \"Erya shu\" (爾雅疏, \"Erya\" Subcommentary\"), which quoted many descriptions from both ordinary literature and medicinal \"bencao\" (本草, \"pharmacopoeia; herbal\") texts. A century later, Lu Dian (陸佃) wrote the (1096) \"Piya\" (\"Increased [Er]ya\") and the (1099) \"Erya Xinyi\" (爾雅新義 \"New Interpretations of the \"Erya\"\") commentary. The Southern Song dynasty scholar Luo Yuan (羅願) subsequently wrote the (1174) \"Eryayi\" (爾雅翼, \"Wings to the \"Erya\"\") interpretation. During the Qing Dynasty, Shao Jinhan (邵晋涵, 1743–1796) published the \"Erya Zhengyi\" (爾雅正義, \"Correct Meanings of the \"Erya\"\") and the naturalist Hao Yixing (郝懿行) wrote the (1808-1822) \"Erya yishu\" (爾雅義疏, \"Subcommentary on Meanings of the \"Erya\").\n\nIn the history of Chinese lexicography, nearly all dictionaries were collated by graphic systems of character radicals, first introduced in the \"Shuowen Jiezi\". However, a few notable exceptions, called \"yashu\" 雅書 \"[Er]ya\"-type books\", adopted collation by semantic categories such as Heaven and Earth. The Ming Dynasty scholar Lang Kuijin (郎奎金) categorized and published the \"Wuya\" (五雅 \"Five [Er]yas\"): \"Erya\", (c. 150 BCE) \"Xiao Erya\" (\"Little Erya\"), (c. 200) \"Yiya\" (\"Lost Erya\" or the \"Shiming\"), (c. 230) \"Guangya\" (\"Expanded Erya\"), and (1125) \"Piya\" (\"Increased Erya\"). Chinese \"leishu\" encyclopedias, such as the (1408) \"Yongle Encyclopedia\", were also semantically arranged. Needham (1986: 192) takes the \"Eryas derivative literature as the main line of descent for the encyclopedia in China.\n\nThe \"Erya\" has been described as a dictionary, glossary, synonymicon, thesaurus, and encyclopaedia. Karlgren (1931: 46) explains that the book \"is not a dictionary \"in abstracto\", it is a collection of \"direct glosses to concrete passages in ancient texts\".\" The received text contains 2094 entries, covering about 4300 words, and a total of 13,113 characters. It is divided into nineteen sections, the first of which is subdivided into two parts. The title of each chapter combines \"shi\" (\"explain; elucidate\") with a term describing the words under definition. Seven chapters (4, 8, 9, 10, 12, 18, and 19) are organized into taxonomies. For instance, chapter 4 defines terms for: paternal clan (宗族), maternal relatives (母黨), wife's relatives (妻黨), and marriage (婚姻). The text is divided between the first three heterogeneous chapters defining abstract words and the last sixteen semantically-arranged chapters defining concrete words. The last seven – concerning grasses, trees, insects and reptiles, fish, birds, wild animals, and domestic animals – describe more than 590 kinds of flora and fauna. It is a notable document of natural history and historical biogeography.\n\nOwing to its laconic lexicographical style, the \"Erya\" is the only Chinese classic that has not been fully translated into English. However, there are several unpublished PhD dissertations translating particular chapters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41028594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41028594", "title": "Ex parte Harmse", "text": "Ex parte Harmse\n\nIn Ex parte Harmse, an important case in South African insolvency law, the applicant’s statement indicated an excess of assets over liabilities, but the only evidence that he adduced to prove otherwise were certain letters written by estate agents or valuers. The court held that the applicant had failed to adduce sufficient evidence to establish on a balance of probabilities that he was insolvent: “It is only acceptable and admissible evidence which can displace the prima facie inference of solvency when the applicant’s own estimate of values exceeds the amount of the liabilities.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24878047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24878047", "title": "Genetics Abstracts", "text": "Genetics Abstracts\n\nGenetics Abstracts is a database produced by CSA Illumina. It includes abstracts from articles from 954 peer-reviewed scientific journals in the field of genetics published since 1982. The database is updated monthly, with approximately 1600 new records added. As of October 2009, it contains over 535,623 records.\n"}
{"id": "1036546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1036546", "title": "HIV trial in Libya", "text": "HIV trial in Libya\n\nThe HIV trial in Libya (or Bulgarian nurses affair) concerns the trials, appeals and eventual release of six foreign medical workers charged with conspiring to deliberately infect over 400 children with HIV in 1998, causing an epidemic at El-Fatih Children's Hospital in Benghazi, Libya. About 56 of the infected children had died by August 2007.\n\nThe defendants, arrested in 1999, were a Palestinian medical intern and five Bulgarian nurses (often termed \"medics\"). They were first sentenced to death, then had their case remanded to Libya's highest court, and were sentenced to death again, a penalty which was upheld by Libya's highest court in early July 2007. The six then had their sentences commuted to life in prison by a Libyan government panel. They were released following a deal reached with European Union representatives on humanitarian issues—the EU did not condone the guilty verdict in Libya against the six. On 24 July 2007, the five medics and the doctor were extradited to Bulgaria, where their sentences were commuted by the Bulgarian President Georgi Parvanov and they were freed. Furthermore, a controversy has arisen concerning the terms of release, which allegedly include an arms trade as well as a civilian nuclear cooperation agreement signed by French President Nicolas Sarkozy in July 2007. Both the French and Bulgarian presidents have denied that the two deals were related to the liberation of the six, although this has been alleged by a variety of sources, including Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, son of former Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi.\n\nThe epidemic at El-Fatih and the subsequent trials were highly politicized and controversial. The medics say that they were forced to confess under torture and that they are innocent. Saif al-Islam Gaddafi later confirmed that Libyan investigators tortured the medics with electric shocks and threatened to target their families in order to extract the confessions, and confirmed that some of the children had been infected with HIV before the medics arrived in Libya. He said that the guilty verdict of the Libyan courts had been based on \"conflicting reports\", and said: \"There is negligence, there is a disaster that took place, there is a tragedy, but it was not deliberate.\"\n\nSome of the world's foremost HIV experts had written to courts and the Libyan government on the medics' behalf, blaming the epidemic on poor hygiene practices in the hospital. The epidemic is the largest documented outbreak of HIV within a hospital in history, and it was the first time HIV/AIDS became a public issue in Libya. Two of the world's foremost HIV experts, Luc Montagnier and Vittorio Colizzi, supported the medics' case, and reaction to their convictions was swift, with a number of appeals from scientific and human rights organizations, and various official condemnations of the verdict along with diplomatic initiatives.\n\nThree of the Bulgarian medics published autobiographical books regarding the trial: \"Eight and a Half Years Hostage of Gaddafi\" by Kristiyana Vulcheva; \"In Gaddafi's Cage\" by Snezhana Dimitrova, and \"Notes from Hell\" by Valya Cherveniashka and Nikolay Yordanov.\n\nThe El-Fatih epidemic is the largest documented incident of nosocomial (hospital-induced) infection of HIV in history. The Libyan public was enraged and many foreign medical workers were arrested; six were eventually charged. Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi initially blamed the CIA or Mossad for plotting to carry out a deadly experiment on the Libyan children.\n\nThe crisis first came to light in November 1998 when Libyan \"La\" magazine (issue 78) published an exposé about AIDS at the hospital. In December, the Association of Libyan Writers reported over 60 cases of AIDS so far that year in Libya. \"La\" interviewed Sulaiman al-Ghemari, Libyan Minister for Health, who told them that most of the cases concerned children. Parents believed their children were infected through blood transfusions in Benghazi's main children's hospital.\nAlthough \"La\" magazine was shut down, it was eventually revealed that over 400 children had been infected. Libya requested and received an emergency WHO team, which was sent in December and stayed through January 1999. The WHO team issued a classified report on the situation.\n\nIn February 1999, the Bulgarian embassy announced that 23 Bulgarian specialists had been \"kidnapped\". A week later they were informed by Libyan authorities that \"precautionary measures\" had been taken against Bulgarian doctors and nurses working at the Benghazi Children’s Hospital. Most of the nurses were recruited by Bulgarian state-owned company Expomed to work at the Libyan hospital, where pay was considerably higher than they could receive at home, beginning work in February 1998.\nOn 7 March 1999, six members of the group subjected to \"precautionary measures\" were formally arrested on a warrant in connection with the case of infecting children in Benghazi with HIV. The group consisted of Ashraf al-Hadzhudzh, a Palestinian intern, and Bulgarian nurses Kristiyana Valtcheva, Nasya Nenova, Valentina Siropulo, Valya Chervenyashka, and Snezhana Dimitrova. They later became widely known as \"the Benghazi Six\".\n\nWell over 400 children were infected with HIV at the El-Fatih Children's Hospital. Some were receiving treatment in Europe. The death toll went up to 50. Parents and relatives of the children protested, and demanded that death penalties be carried out against those responsible. Libyan prime minister Shukri Ghanem insisted that the outcome of the trial was entirely a judicial matter. In a statement broadcast on Al Jazeera, Ghanem said that all efforts should now be focused on the infected children, \"who are subject to a death sentence each day\". The families of the infected children also demanded compensation for the actions taken by the convicted medics; figures of up to $10 million per family were mentioned. In July 2007, Libya announced a settlement had been reached, with $400 million going to the 426 victims' families in exchange for conversion of the nurses' sentences from death to life in prison.\n\nInitially, 23 foreign medical personnel, mostly Bulgarian, were arrested; 17 were subsequently released and returned to Bulgaria. Additionally, 11 Libyan nationals were arrested and charged with the alleged crimes. Doctor Zdravko Georgiev went to Libya to see his wife (Valtcheva) and was subsequently detained and tried on the charge of illegally transacting in foreign currency. Several Libyans were also arrested and tried on non-capital offences—Abdul Azis Husein Mohammed Shembesh, Abdul Menam Ahmed Mohammed al-Sherif, Idris Maatuk Mohammed al-Amari, Salim Ibrahim Suleyman Abe Garara, Mansur al-Mansur Saleh al-Mauhub, Nureddin Abdulhamid Halil Dagman and Saad Musa Suleyman al-Amruni.\n\nAshraf al-Hadzhudzh was defendant number one in the case. In the prosecution's view he was a man in a deadly criminal ring of female nurses dedicated to a plot involving agents of foreign governments; large sums of money; illegal, adulterous sex; and illegal alcohol. He was convicted of murdering 426 Libyan children in carrying out the plot, with the intention of destabilizing the country. He was an intern who started working at the hospital two months before news of the epidemic broke out. His family fled Libya to the Netherlands because, according to them, they had been portrayed by the Libyan media as \"killers of innocent children\". Ashraf's cousin in the Palestinian Territories As'ad El-Hajouj told the Turkish Daily News that Ashraf had lost an eye and that one of his hands had been paralyzed due to torture endured in prison. Ashraf al-Hadzhudzh was granted Bulgarian citizenship on 19 June 2007.\n\nOn 19 April 2009, El-Hajouj caught the Libyan ambassador off-guard when he confronted her at a preparatory committee for Durban II in Geneva. He asked her:\n\nThe Libyan chair then forced him not to complete his speech.\nEl-Hajouj has since vowed to \"remain, until the last moment of [his] life, as a stone in their throats.\"\n\nKristiyana Vulcheva, wife of Doctor Zdravko Georgiev, was not recruited by Expomed. She was charged along with the others, but was ultimately found not guilty of all charges after initially having been convicted of currency violations. Purported by the prosecution to be the ringleader of the plot, it was claimed she spoke Arabic, and had a luxurious lifestyle. The other four testified that they had never seen Vulcheva before their blindfolds were taken off after their kidnapping by Libyan security, when they were first brought to the police compound in February 1999. Vulcheva was also the only one charged and convicted of illegally distilling alcohol. The defense pointed out that no device used to do this was produced at trial. She admitted in court to having seen Ashraf at the Benghazi Children's Hospital. Unlike Ashraf, she never confessed to having sexual relations with him, which is required for a conviction for the crime of adultery under Libyan law. She retracted her confession that vials were given to her by a British citizen which were used to infect the children, denying knowing any such person as \"John the Englishman\" or having been paid \"large sums of money\" to infect the children\nAfter the re-imposition of the death sentence in 2006 it was announced that Vulcheva would be seeking to have Vladimir Sheitanov represent her again. Plamen Yalnuzov had replaced him as representative for the Bulgarians in 2002.\n\nAfter the verdict her mother made a public plea: \"We are sending our plea to the British government and the victims of Lockerbie. We are well aware the issue is painful to all, but in the name of the most humane of the professions we ask them to be merciful and let Megrahi go.\", referring to Abdelbaset al-Megrahi who was serving a life sentence in Scotland for the Lockerbie bombing.\n\nGaddafi has repeatedly compared the two cases. After the 2006 verdict he said, \"Organisations like the Arab League, the non-aligned movement and the Islamic Conference said al-Megrahi was a political prisoner and international observers said elements of foreign intelligence were present at the trial... Nobody asked for his release.\"\n\nNasya Nenova attempted suicide. She testified that she confessed and attempted suicide because she was afraid she would be tortured again. She was interrogated alongside Ashraf and told the court they were beaten and that there was no interpreter. She did not confess to having illegal sexual relations with him. She, along with Vulcheva, are the only nurses who admitted knowing Ashraf by sight beforehand, but she said she had never spoken with him. She denied having attempted suicide out of guilt for what she had done. In court she stated that \"I am not guilty on any of the counts. My conscience is clear.\" and \"We had protection from no-one, we had no doctor. We were alone there with those men who did everything they wanted to do\". She said she attempted to retract her confession on 17 July 1999, but that a Colonel Juma came and threatened to renew the torture if she persisted.\n\nShe is seeking to reappoint Vladimir Sheitanov as a replacement for defense attorneys Yalnyzov and Byzanti after the 2006 death sentence.\n\nShe is from Byala Slatina. She was recruited by Expomed company. Her husband, Emil Uzunov, in a 2003 interview with Bulgarian National Radio (BNR) said that the defence lawyer Bizanti was one of the torturers who beat the six medics during the initial interrogations. Chervenyashka had to correct the story. \"I suppose my husband was too nervous and over-reacted,\" she said.\n\nHer daughter Antoaneta Uzunova has commented on the case.\"It's been terrible. ... The charges were absurd then, they remain absurd now,\" she said in 2005. \"When I heard them being described as CIA agents ... I knew what would happen,\" said Uzunova, 28. \"Then we found out our loved ones had been tortured in a most cruel way. It's a nightmare.\"\n\nAt another time she said\n\"Nurses from little towns in Bulgaria acting as agents of Mossad?\"\n\"It all sounds funny and absurd until you realize your mother could die for it.\"\n\nShe is seeking to reappoint Vladimir Sheitanov as a replacement for defense attorneys Yalnyzov and Byzanti after the 2006 death sentence.\n\nIn 2009 Cherveniashka co-wrote with the Bulgarian screenwriter Nikolay Yordanov а biographical book about her years in Libya. The book is titled \"Notes from Hell\". It was published in Bulgaria on 20 November 2009, and in South Africa in February 2010. It was published again as e-book in 2014.\n\nDimitrova did not arrive at the hospital until 10 August 1998. She was recruited by Expomed. She is the only one of the condemned to have been picked up for questioning in the roundup of medical workers on 14 December 1998. She was held for two days then, and rearrested with the others on 10 February 1999.\n\nIn a handwritten 2003 declaration to the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry, Snezhana Dimitrova, described torture that had included electric shocks and beatings.\n\n\"They tied my hands behind my back,\" she wrote. \"Then they hung me from a door. It feels like they are stretching you from all sides. My torso was twisted and my shoulders were dislocated from their joints from time to time. The pain cannot be described. The translator was shouting, 'Confess or you will die here.\"'\n\n\"I confessed during torture with electricity. They put small wires on my toes and on my thumbs. Sometimes they put one on my thumb and another on my tongue, neck or ear. It had a hand crank to make it go. They had two kinds of machines, one with a crank and one with buttons.\"\"\n\nDoctor Zdravko Georgiev the husband of Kristiana Vulcheva, came to Libya after his wife was arrested. He was charged along with the others but ultimately was found not guilty of all charges after having been once convicted of currency violations.\n\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) report (1999) describes the visit performed by the WHO team (Dr. P.N. Shrestha, Dr. A. Eleftherious and Dr. V. Giacomet) to Tripoli, Sirte and Benghazi the 28th of December 1998 through 11 January 1999; while the Bulgarians were still on staff.\n\nThere have been several reports done on the HIV outbreak. The most important of these, the Final Report of Prof. Luc Montagnier and Prof. Vittorio Colizzi was commissioned by the Libyan Jamahiriya, and arranged through UNESCO. Montagnier and Colizzi had access to all the files of the infected subjects available at the Hospital as well as samples from European hospitals that had taken some of the sick children, as well as the samples at El-Fatih.\n\nTheir report concluded that the infection at the hospital resulted from poor hygiene and reuse of syringes, and that the infections began before the arrival of the nurses and doctor in 1998. Through hospital records, and the DNA sequences of the virus, they traced it to patient n.356 who was admitted 28 times between 1994–97 in Ward B, ISO and Ward A, and theorized that this patient was the probable source of the infection. The first cross-contamination occurred during that patient's 1997 admission. The report concludes that the admission records of a total of 21 of the children \"definitively prove that the HIV infection in the Al-Fatih Hospital was already active in 1997\" and that \"Ward B was already heavily contaminated in November 1997.\"\n\nMontagnier and Colizzi both testified in person at the trial of record for the defense, and the report was submitted in evidence.\n\nProf. Luc Montagnier (Paris, France) and Prof. Vittorio Colizzi (Rome, Italy) were appointed as international scientific consultants by the Secretary of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya.\n\nThe prosecution advanced a contrary report drawn up by a Libyan expert panel. The scientific community became politically embroiled in events when the criminal court in Benghazi rejected Montagnier-Colizzi in favor of the conclusions of the Libyan experts. After the conviction, Colizzi said the scientific evidence being used against them \"is so irrational it's unbelievable\" and the verdict read \"like a bad spy film\"\n\nThe brief report is given in Nature.\n\nSummary of results:\n\n\nConclusion:\n\nUpon examining the scientific attached papers, medical reports and defense memoranda: with respect to the scientific view and according to known scientific practices, the National Experts Committee deems the outbreak of AIDS in the Al-Fateh Children's Hospital as not having occurred as a result of a nosocomial infection and having not resulted because of the misuse and/or the reuse of medical instruments. Furthermore, the data available to us did not contradict the possibility of a deliberate transmission of HIV to the infected children.\n\nDr. Amina Saleh Abusidra\n\nDr. Othman Al-Shibani Al-Zentani\n\nDr. Mohamed Dhao Ighniah\n\nDr. Ibrahim Abdusalam Abeid\n\nDr. Osama Awadh Al-Zwai\n\nSunday 28 December 2003\n\nOn 6 December 2006, the influential science journal \"Nature\" published a new study which examined the mutation history of the HIV found in blood samples from some of the children, and concluded that a number of those children had been infected well before the six defendants arrived in Libya. In addition, a common ancestor of the strains that infected the children was already present in Libya. The study was based on statistical models of the rate of evolution in HIV derived from previous outbreaks. The publication was reported in newspapers world-wide and sparked an editorial campaign by \"Nature\" calling for the acquittal of the defendants.\n\nThe authors of the study agreed to make fully available all the data they had used so that independent confirmations could be made.\n\nOmar Bagasra, MD, PhD Department of Biology, South Carolina Center for Biotechnology\nMohammad Alsayari, MD South Carolina Center for Biotechnology\n\nThe Case of the Libyan HIV-1 Outbreak\n\nProf Omar Bagasra and his group discussed in detail the previous published reports and asked for examination of the CD4+ T lymphocytes of the infected children to exclude the possibility of their intentional infection with HIV.\nTheir hypothesis is that the children were infected as part of an AIDS vaccine trial.\n\n114 Nobel Laureates in the sciences co-signed an open letter to Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi calling for a fair trial.\n\nAll of the defendants said they had been tortured. This was later confirmed by Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, son of the leader of Libya. He said that the confessions were extracted through torture with electric shocks and threats targeted at the medic's families, and confirmed that some of the children had been infected with HIV before the medics arrived in Libya. He said that the guilty verdict of the Libyan courts had been based on \"conflicting reports\", and said that\n\nAshraf Ahmed al-Hadzhudzh has reportedly lost an eye and one of his hands has been paralyzed. Snezhana Dimitrova declared that her hands were tied behind her back and she was hung from a door dislocating her shoulders, and that she was told to \"confess or you will die here\". Nasya Nenova testified that \"We were alone there with those men who did everything they wanted to do\". In May 2005 Human Rights Watch interviewed them in Jadida prison.\n\nIn her book, Valya Cherveniashka writes in details the tortures. In the chapter \"The Red Carpet\" she describes first day of interrogation:\n\nIn another chapter, \"The Hell In Me\", there are tens of examples of torture, including dogs, hanging, beating, humiliating, and many more.\n\nAshraf al-Hadzhudzh, the Palestinian intern, told Human Rights Watch \"We had barbaric, sadistic torture for a crime we didn’t do,\" \"They used electric shocks, drugs, beatings, police dogs, sleep prevention.\" The interview was conducted in the presence of a prison guard. \"The confession was like multiple choice, and when I gave a wrong answer they shocked me,\"\n\nValentina Siropulo told Human Rights Watch \"I confessed during torture with electricity. They put small wires on my toes and on my thumbs. Sometimes they put one on my thumb and another on either my tongue, neck or ear,\" \"They had two kinds of machines, one with a crank and one with buttons.\"\n\nKristiana Valcheva said interrogators used a small machine with cables and a handle that produced electricity. \"During the shocks and torture they asked me where the AIDS came from and what is your role...\" She said that Libyan interrogators subjected her to electric shocks on her breasts and genitals. \"My confession was all in Arabic without translation,\" ... \"We were ready to sign anything just to stop the torture.\"\n\nLawyers for the accused medical personnel have asked for 5 million Libyan dinars (approx. US$3.7M/€3.1M as of 2005) as compensation. Much of the evidence is based on medical reports prepared by authorities from Bulgaria relating to marks and scars on the defendants. All of the accused Libyans deny the charges, and none of them were jailed. After several procedural delays, their trial began in late May 2005. On 7 June 2005, the 10 defendants were acquitted.\n\nThe prisoners were sued by several Libyan police officers for slandering them with the allegations of torture. However, on 27 May 2007, the prisoners were acquitted of these charges and the plaintiffs ordered to pay the legal fees.\n\nThe first case against the medics was brought in the People’s Court (Mahkamat al-Sha`b), a special court for crimes against the state. The trial began on 7 February 2000. The charges were: intentionally \"murdering with a lethal substance (Article 371 of the Penal Code), randomly killing with the aim of attacking the security of the State (Article 202), and causing an epidemic through spreading harmful virus, leading to the death of persons (Article 305).\" In addition, the Bulgarians were accused of acting contrary to Libyan customs and traditions, by engaging in non-marital sexual relations and drinking alcohol in public places, distilling alcohol, and illegally transacting in foreign currency.\n\nIn April 2001 Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi made a speech at the African summit on HIV/AIDS. He told the conference that the world AIDS epidemic started when \"CIA laboratories lost control over the virus which they were testing on black Haitian prisoners\"\nHe called the HIV crisis in Benghazi \"an odious crime\" and questioned who was behind it.\"Some said it was the CIA. Others said it was the Mossad Israeli intelligence. They carried out an experiment on these children.\" He went on to say that the trial would be \"an international trial, like the Lockerbie trial.\"\n\nThe defendants all plead not guilty. The Prosecution submitted the Defendant's confessions in evidence, but the defendants all repudiated their confessions. They gave interviews and testified at trial that they were forced to confess by the use of torture. This led to charges being filed against 10 Libyan security personnel, some of whom later claimed they had also been tortured, tortured to confess that they had tortured the medics. The guards were eventually acquitted in subsequent trials.\n\nThe prosecution described a plot to disrupt Libya by foreign secret services.\"To those services, child killing is nothing new. In this way they want to prevent Libya from playing an important role in the Arab World and to disturb calm in the country. The killing of the children by that virus is a means by which those secret services achieve their ends\" In calling for the death penalty the prosecutor said:\"These people have no moral human feelings once they have killed those children. They have sold themselves to the devil, even though the Jamahiriya has given them the right to work and live without let or hindrance.\" He described the epidemic as a \"national catastrophe.\"\n\nThe defendants denied being part of a conspiracy. Nenova, Chervenyashka, Siropoulo and Dimitrova testified that they did not know Vulcheva until 24 hours after what they called their \"kidnapping\" from Benghazi, and, according to Nenova, only after their blindfolds were taken off. Vulcheva denied knowing \"John the Englishman\" or \"Adel the Egyptian\". They all denied that they had been paid \"large sums of money\" to infect the children. Nenova and Vulcheva admitted that they had seen Ashraf at the Benghazi Children's Hospital, but testified that they did not communicate with him and did not perform any tasks assigned by him.\n\nThe defense lawyers argued that physical evidence on all the charges was lacking, including, the blood bottles alleged to contain contaminated plasma, the device alleged to have been used by Kristiyana Vulcheva to distil alcohol, the syringes which were alleged to have been used to commit the crime, and the photos alleged to show sexual relationships between the defendants. Lawyer Sheitanov, argued that the medics had neither the time nor the conditions to carry out a conspiracy to commit the crime, since Nenova, Siropoulo and Chervenyashka started work at the children's hospital on 17 February 1998, Dimitrova on 10 August and Ashraf on 1 August 1998.\n\nA year after the trial began, the People's Court ruled that it did not have jurisdiction in the matter.\"The People's Court has the jurisdiction to pronounce itself on state security-related cases and believes itself incompetent on this matter, the spreading of HIV which caused the death of more than one person is a fact, but the claims that the defendants were conspiring against the Libyan state are dubious and controversial\"\nThe case was then bound over to ordinary criminal court. The People's Court was disbanded in 2005.\n\nThe second trial took place in the Benghazi Appeals Court, beginning 8 July 2003. The judges were from Derna, a town neighboring Benghazi. Judges from Tripoli and Benghazi refused to take on the case due to the high level of public sentiment in those cities. Tight security measures were in place. Police officers with submachine guns guarded the venue as relatives of the children gathered in front.\n\nThe prosecutor stated that the case documents did not reflect the real number of children. The real number of children is 429. A report by prominent AIDS experts Luc Montagnier and Vittorio Colizzi was admitted in evidence.\n\nProf. Luc Montagnier and Prof. Vittorio Colizzito were called to testify in person on behalf of the medics.\n\nProfessor Montagnier, the co-discoverer of the Human Immuno-deficiency Virus (H.I.V), testified that the virus in the 393 children studied is a rare type found mostly in West Africa, but also throughout the continent. Montagnier told the court that the outbreak was probably started by an infected child admitted for treatment at the hospital. He said that injection was not the only possible means of infection, any other manipulation involving penetration of the skin, or even multiple use of the same oxygen mask, could have transmitted the virus. Montagnier was certain that the epidemic at the hospital started about a year before the Bulgarian nurses were hired. He said he was familiar with the case before his first visit to Libya in 1999 because he was in the process of studying the cases of hundreds of HIV-positive children from El-Fatih that were being examined or treated in hospitals in Switzerland, France, and Italy. At the time he was working on these cases, some of the children did not yet have the symptoms because the incubation period of the virus is about 10 years.\n\nUnder cross examination, Montagnier stated that it is possible to preserve the virus and then reactivate it if it has been held in plasma. It could be kept active for several days, depending on how it is stored. He testified that he was not aware of the existence of the technical capacity in Libya for monitoring this kind of storage, either during the epidemic or currently. Montagnier testified that during his first visit, the health authorities in Libya and the management of the Benghazi hospital showed serious concern over the infection, and that at the time they had no idea of the cause of the epidemic's spread.\n\nWhen questioned by the Bulgarian defense, he affirmed that the infection could have started outside the hospital ward where the Bulgarians were working.\n\nThe Court ordered a new expert study of the case record. It received the report from the Libyan panel in December. Contrary to the findings of Prof. Luc Montagnier and Prof. Vittorio Colizzi, this panel concluded that there was no evidence that an in-hospital infection led to the AIDS outbreak at the Benghazi hospital that affected 426 children. The Libyan doctors concluded that the mass infections were more likely due to deliberate actions.\n\nTwo of the Libyan experts were brought in to testify for the prosecution, Awad Abudjadja of the Libyan national committee on AIDS and Busha Allo, head of the infectious diseases ward of the Al Jamahiriya hospital in Tripoli. They testified that the virus load in the blood of the infected children was too high, an indication that the infection was intentional.\n\nAnother Libyan virologist Salim Al-Agiri was summoned by the defense. He told the court that the infection at the Benghazi children's hospital was due to lack of prevention and poor control.\n\nThe prosecutors called for the death penalty based on Nassya Nenova's confession. Nenova admitted in writing to injecting children with contaminated products that she had gotten from the Palestinian Ashraf al-Hadzhudzh. According to the confession she was unaware that they contained HIV, and believed she was testing a new drug. Nenova withdrew her confession before the Libyan People's Court in 2001 and told that court they were extracted under duress. Libyan law disregards confessions extracted with violence.\n\nThe prosecutors claimed that Kristiana Vulcheva acted as the mastermind. They introduced transcripts of her bank accounts and said she performed money transfers, paying the other defendants. The prosecutors averred that Vulcheva had a luxurious lifestyle and that she speaks Arabic, citing that as a further proof of her guilt.\n\nOne piece of material evidence which they said called for the death penalty were five containers of plasma protein found to contain four varieties of HIV according to a report by Awad Abudadjadja, a coordinator of the Libyan national committee on AIDS.\n\nOn 6 May 2004 the Criminal Court in Benghazi sentenced to death by firing squad; Ashraf al-Hadzhudzh, Kristiyana Valtcheva, Nasya Nenova, Valentina Siropulo, Valya Chervenyashka, and Snezhana Dimitrova, finding them guilty for the intentional infection of 426 Libyan children with AIDS. Dr Zdravko Georgiev was found guilty of illegal transactions in foreign currency and sentenced to four years in prison and a fine of 600 dinars. He was ordered released for time served.\n\nIn public after the conviction Colizzi called the scientific evidence used against them \"so irrational it's unbelievable\" and said the verdict read \"like a bad spy film\".\n\nThe convictions were appealed to the Libyan Supreme Court which heard the case beginning on 29 March 2005. The defense urged the court to revoke the death sentences and remand the case to the lower courts for retrial. Under Libyan law, the court could not accept any new evidence, although the defense team argued that there was wrongly interpreted evidence during the court sessions so far. There were a number of delays and postponements. Eventually the Supreme Court revoked the death sentences and ordered a new trial.\n\nBulgarian president Georgi Parvanov said the court ruling \"confirmed our hope that justice in this case will prevail.\" President Parvanov added: \"The unfair death sentences were reversed. ...We hope that the swiftness and the effectiveness demonstrated by the Libyan court in the past days will help solve the case as soon as possible.\"\n\nUS State Department spokesman, Justin Higgins, described the decision as a \"positive development since it removes the risk of the death penalty being carried out. As we have made clear before, we believe a way should be found to allow the medics to return to their home\". The Council of Europe welcomed the decision and said it hoped the new trial will \"comply with the internationally recognised standards of fairness and due process\".\n\nOn 19 December 2006, the court pronounced its verdict in the retrial, all six were guilty, and again sentenced to death by firing squad.\nFollowing the verdict the court published a 100 page document on the website of 'Libya Today' newspaper explaining its decision.\n\nAccording to the document:\n\nThe research by the World Health Organization showed that the HIV infected children also had Hepatitis C, which was proof that the infection was intentional and malicious. However, co-infection with Hepatitis was emphasized as indicating poor hygiene and reuse of syringes by the WHO study authors themselves, as well as all of the other non-Libyan studies used by the defense, the opposite conclusion to this analysis by the court.\n\nThe court also said that it was not willing to accept the fact that the five were tortured, because another court has already waived this accusation, and found therefore that the defendants all confessed in full consciousness and without being subject of any violence or torture.\n\nOn 17 July 2007, Libya's High Judicial Council, its highest judicial body, announced that the sentences would be converted to life imprisonment. Earlier that day, Libya negotiated a $400 million settlement with the families of 426 HIV victims. The Judicial Council received authority to review the case after the Supreme Court upheld the death sentences one week prior to the commutation. The Judicial Council is controlled by the government and can commute sentences or grant pardons.\n\nOn 24 July 2007, the French President Nicolas Sarkozy officially announced that French and European representatives had obtained the extradition of the prisoners, including the Palestinian doctor, who had been granted Bulgarian citizenship a month earlier. They left Libya on a French government plane, with the EU's external affairs commissioner, Benita Ferrero-Waldner, and the former wife of the French President, Cécilia Sarkozy, who traveled twice to Libya.\n\nDuring his investiture speech as President beginning of May 2007, Sarkozy had alluded to the nurses, declaring: \"France will be to the sides of the Libyan nurses detained since 8 years...\"\n\nThe six prisoners were released after extensive negotiations between the EU (including Bulgaria, and particularly France's President Nicolas Sarkozy and his former wife) and Libya. As a result of the resolution of the crisis, negotiations for further restoring Libya's ties to the EU are in progress.\n\nA 1985 prisoner-exchange agreement between Bulgaria and Libya was the legal instrument used for the transfer; technically Libya did not free the medics but rather allowed them to serve their sentences in Bulgaria. On landing in Sofia, however, they were pardoned by the Bulgarian President, Georgi Parvanov.\n\nThe French President said that \"some humanitarian mediation\" by the \"friendly\" government of Qatar was decisive in helping with the release of the medics. Sarkozy claimed that no additional money was given by France, Bulgaria, or the European Union in addition to the amount stipulated in the private agreement previously reached with the Libyan families. He also confirmed that the release of the medics would allow him to perform an official visit to Libya to meet the Libyan president to negotiate other international issues.\n\nThe EU believes the six are innocent - Libya does not. Libya complained that the six should not have been pardoned once they reached Bulgaria. Libya petitioned the Arab League, and was supported by Oman, but, as of 31 July no definitive Arab League support had been decided on and no complaint had been filed with the EU.\n\nThe EU maintains it did not pay compensation to either the infected children or their families: according to Sarkozy, Europe did not pay \"the slightest financial compensation\" for the medics' release. However, the European Commission committed $461 million to the Benghazi International Fund. Also, Bulgaria cancelled a probably noncollectible $57 million debt owed by Libya, and humanitarian funds were made available for both the infected's treatment and for a new children's hospital in Benghazi. Saif Gaddafi declared that the humanitarian aid to the Benghazi hospital amounted to \"not less than 300 million euros,\" which was denied by the French, who declared that it was largely overestimated. The Benghazi International Fund received from abroad 600 million Libyan dinars and Libya received promises of equipment and personnel to train of Libyan medics over a period of five years.\n\nInitially Gaddafi's son, Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, contradicted Sarkozy's claim that no additional agreements had been made. In exchange for the release of the nurses, he said Nicolas Sarkozy not only signed with Gaddafi security, health care and immigration pacts (assistance with border management and scholarships for Libyan students in the EU) : according to Libyan sources cited by the Agence France-Presse, a $230 million (168 million euros) MILAN antitank missile sale was also part of the release deal.\n\nSaif al-Islam announced the existence of these deals in an interview to \"Le Monde\". EADS also confirmed it after Saif Gaddafi's declarations, contradicting the official position of the Elysée Palace. Another 128 million euro contract would have been signed, according to Tripoli, with EADS for a TETRA radio system. The Socialist Party (PS) and the Communist Party (PCF) criticized a \"state affair\" and a \"barter\" with a \"rogue state\". The leader of the PS, François Hollande, requested the opening of a parliamentary investigation. The Parliamentary Commission is expected to be created in October 2007. The French left asked for Cécilia Sarkozy to be heard by the Commission, as she had played an \"important role\" in the release of the six according to Pierre Moscovici (PS). Arnaud Montebourg had criticized her role, accusing her of having fast-tracked the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Bernard Kouchner, while Sarkozy himself praised his wife.\n\nHe also linked the release of the Bulgarian nurses and of the Palestinian physician to bilateral negotiations with the United Kingdom concerning the extradition of Abdelbaset al-Megrahi, convicted in the Lockerbie bombing case.\n\nFollowing the controversy lifted by Saif Gaddafi's revelations concerning the arms deal, Sarkozy claimed that the arms contract was not connected to the liberation of the six, declaring: \"\"The contract was not linked to the release of the nurses. What do they criticise me for? Getting contracts? Creating jobs for French workers?\".\n\nFurthermore, Saif Gaddafi retracted his August 1 statements three days later, claiming that the arms deal and the agreement for the delivery of a nuclear reactor were not linked to the liberation of the Bulgarian nurses. He stated that the deal with EADS had started 18 months ago, information that was confirmed by EADS.\n\nDespite these denegations, it is commonally accepted that the arms deal would not have been possible if the six hadn't been freed, as Europe generally would have sided with Bulgaria on this issue. The head of the Bulgarian intelligence, General Kirtcho Kirov, declared that important arms contracts and oil contracts were at stake.\n\nAdditionally, President Sarkozy pledged to sell Libya three civil nuclear power stations as part of a package of trade and assistance that will boost the role of French companies in the oil-rich country. During his visit to Libya on 25 July 2007, Sarkozy signed an agreement of cooperation on civil nuclear technology. He decided to build three civil nuclear power stations for the Libyan state. According to Paris, the nuclear power stations are meant for desalinization of sea water, but \"Le Monde\" has pointed out that the Libyans quickly bypassed any reference to desalinization. This deal was criticized by the French left-wing and also by German governmental sources, including Deputy Foreign Minister Gernot Erler, Greens leader Reinhard Buetikofer and SPD deputy Ulrich Kelber. And during Tony Blair's visit end of May 2007, the British group BP signed a natural gas contract for 900 million dollars.\n\nFurthermore, \"Le Parisien\" alleged on 13 August 2007 that the agreement concerning nuclear technologies did not concern desalinization of sea water, but focused in particular on the ERP third-generation nuclear reactor, worth $3 billion. The Parisian newspaper cited Philippe Delaune, the deputy of the deputy director of international affairs of the CEA atomic agency. It is the main share-holder of Areva, the firm which products ERP reactors. Although the French President denied any relationship between the deal with Areva and the liberation of the six, \"Le Parisien\" points out a troubling chronology: Areva was called to present its products to Libya at the end of June 2007, a short time before the release of the six. The French Socialist Party, through the voice of Jean-Louis Bianco, declared that this deal was \"geopolitically irresponsible.\" The German government also denounced the agreement. Through Siemens, they retain 34% of the shares of Areva's subsidiary in charge of building the ERP (Areva NP).\n\nThis information from \"Le Parisien\" was immediately denied by Areva. Areva's spokesman did admit that negotiations had taken place early June 2007, but that no particular technology transfer had been agreed upon. Furthermore, Philippe Delaune, the CEA's spokesman, added that in any case, any transfer concerning the ERP technology would take at least ten or fifteen years.\n\nWhile Areva did admit that general negotiations had taken place, Nicolas Sarkozy formally dismissed all of the story, claiming it was \"false.\" Bulgarian President Georgy Parvanov also claimed that the arms and nuclear agreements were not related to the release of the nurses.\n\nThree of the Bulgarian medics published auto-biographical books regarding the trial. Kristiyana Vulcheva's \"8 and a half years hostage of Ghaddafi\" premiered in 2007. Snezhana Dimitrova's \"In Gaddafi's Cage\" was published a month later. In 2009 Valya Cherveniashka wrote her version of the story together with Nikolay Yordanov in \"Notes from Hell\". Her book was published in South Africa in 2010, and re-issued worldwide as e-book in 2014.\n\nA movie tentatively titled \"The Benghazi Six\" was planned for filming to be developed by US based producers Sam Feuer and Richard Harding, who own the exclusive life rights.\n\nThere have been a number of diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis.\n\nOne of Muammar Gaddafi's sons Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, has admitted at least some Libyan responsibility. On 24 December 2005, it was announced that Libya, Bulgaria, the EU and the US had agreed on the creation of a fund, which may have helped to resolve the matter. In the end, Saif al-Islam was heavily credited with the resolution of the crisis.\n\nThe Bulgarian independent daily newspaper \"Novinar\" published a set of 12 cartoons mocking Gaddafi, Libyan justice, and the Bulgarian government's quiet diplomacy vis-à-vis the HIV trial. Publication of the cartoons caused outrage in Tripoli, and the Libyan ambassador in Sofia delivered a protest note to the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry. In response, the Bulgarian Deputy Foreign Minister, Feim Chaushev, and President Parvanov apologized and distanced themselves from the \"Novinar\" cartoons.\n\nThe six medics were again sentenced to death. EU Justice Commissioner Franco Frattini quickly expressed his shock at the verdict and called for the decision to be reviewed, as was done by the Bulgarian government and international organizations, including Amnesty International, the World Medical Association and the International Council of Nurses.\n\nThe Libyan foreign ministry said international response to the convictions and death sentences was disrespectful to the Libyan people. The foreign ministry also said (as reported by the Washington Post) \"The political stance expressed by the Bulgarian government, the EU countries and others is a clear bias <nowiki>to[wards]</nowiki> certain values that are likely to trigger wars, conflicts and cause enmity between religions and civilizations.\"\n\nThe trials have been condemned by The European Union, individual EU member nations, the United States and Russia.\n\nThe African Union (AU) Commission has expressed concern at what it calls \"politicization\" of the case. According to the Angola Press the AU Commission said all of Africa was monitoring the case with great interest, and that attempts to politicize the matter must stop forthwith. The AU also expressed solidarity with the families of the victims. It said people should not aggravate the tragic case, where 56 of the infected children have already succumbed to AIDS.\n\nAccording to Sofia News Agency, The Arab League \"asked all countries not to politicize the issue, as the accused have still one more chance for appealing their sentence. The League also underlined the need to be compassionate to the HIV-infected Libyan children in order to curb the consequences of this painful human catastrophe\".\n\nThe Council of Europe passed Recommendation 1726 in 2005 titled \"Serious human rights violations in Libya – Inhuman treatment of Bulgarian medical staff\". The Committee of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly severely condemned this verdict which is contrary to the fundamental values they uphold...The Parliamentary Assembly...categorically condemns the barbaric way in which they were treated in the first few months after their arrest and the torture and ill-treatment to which they were subjected.\n\nEuropean Commission opposed the position of the Libyan court decision to sentence to death.\n\nMinistry of Foreign Affairs - Alexander Yakovenko, Spokesman:\"According to our information, the Bulgarian medics' lawyers intend to appeal this decision in the Supreme\" \"Court of Libya. For our part, we hope that an additional trial in Tripoli,\"\n\"in which all the facts and the opinions of people involved in this case will be comprehensively examined\"\"\n\nThe United States State Department did not agree with the decision of the court.\n\nMany non-governmental organizations took a stand against the sentences.\n\nIn a statement on 6 May 2004, a statement from Amnesty International was released: \"We are shocked by the imposition of these death sentences and call for the Libyan authorities to immediately quash them.\n\nThe ICN President Christine Hancock wrote: \"The sentence is unjust, unwarranted and unacceptable.\" \"We implore the Libyan government to rectify this dreadful situation as quickly as possible. The health workers are being unfairly held responsible for a tragedy which has caused outrage in Libya.\"\n\nDr. Yoram Blachar, chairman of the WMA Council, said after a meeting of the WMA wrote: \"I appeal to the Libyan authorities to quash this sentence. It is completely unjustified.\"\n\nMany newspapers and journals came out against the sentences.\n\nIn Libya, \"La\" magazine (issue 78) published its exposé about AIDS at the hospital, but was shut down. Initial Bulgarian coverage focused on a scandal in the wake of the arrests when the Bulgarian news journal \"24 hours\" of 24 February published an investigation of money laundering at Expomed entitled \"How we [lost] USD 5,048,292 in Libya\".\n\nThe trial received almost no public attention outside Libya and Bulgaria until an account by Eric Favereau was published in the French paper Libération on 2 June 2000 entitled \"Libye : Six Bulgares accusés d’être à l’origine de 393 cas de sida Assassins d’enfants ou boucs émissaires de la Libye ? \" (Libya: six Bulgarians accused of causing 392 Aids cases - Child killers or Libya's Scapegoats?).\nLibya had requested help and France, Italy and Switzerland had received some of the sick children. Eighty children were sent to France in May 1999. The Swiss paper Neue Zuercher Zeitung followed with the article \"Bulgarians as Scapegoats\" and the Washington Times picked up the story.\n\nIn April 2001 the trial gained brief attention after Muammar Gaddafi gave his speech at the African summit on HIV/AIDS implicating the CIA.\nCold War era GRU defector Viktor Suvorov would claim on Radio Free Europe that the conspiracy theory espoused by Gaddafi about CIA creating HIV and letting it loose in Africa had been invented by the KGB and was still promoted by Russian secret services, who were controlling Libya.\n\nThis theory was widely published throughout the Balkans in Serbian and Greek newspaper articles. On 2 July 2001 the Washington Post ran a story by Peter Finn, interviewing Prof. Luc Perrin. Perrin dismissed the allegations of a deliberate infection, and WHO spokesperson Melinda Henry told the Post that members of WHO missions in Libya in 1998 and 1999 felt that further study was necessary, but they \"were not invited back.\"\n\nThe case continued to receive minor attention until the conclusion of the second trial and the imposition of the death penalty on 6 May 2004, which provoked a major reaction, and worldwide television coverage.\n\nOn 24 February 2011, Mustafa Abdul Jalil, Libya's newly resigned Minister of Justice, told Al Jazeera that the responsibility for the HIV infection lies totally with Muammar Gaddafi's regime.\nHowever Abdul Jalil, who became head of the Libyan NTC and then de facto head of state after the execution of Gaddafi, was one of the judges who twice upheld the nurses' death sentence.\n\nAP Story\n\n\n\n\nAIDS in our children-\nWho is responsible?\n"}
{"id": "32509644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32509644", "title": "International Dialects of English Archive", "text": "International Dialects of English Archive\n\nThe International Dialects of English Archive (IDEA) is a free, online archive of primary-source dialect and accent recordings of the English language. The archive was founded by Paul Meier in 1997 at the University of Kansas and includes hundreds of recordings of English speakers throughout the world.\n\nIDEA is divided into 10 major sections: Africa, Asia, Australia-Oceania, Caribbean, Central America, Europe, Middle East, North America, South America and Special Collections, with further divisions by country. Most speakers read a passage of scripted text and also speak some unscripted text, usually containing biographical information about themselves, such as their age, where they were born and where they have lived. This allows the listeners to evaluate the subject's accent or dialect based upon where that subject has spent most of his or her life.\n\nThe Special Collections section contains unique information related to accent and dialect studies. For instance, one subsection is devoted to Holocaust survivors while another features readings of \"Comma Gets a Cure\" (the standard scripted text for most IDEA subjects) by trained speech teachers in the General American dialect. Another part of the Special Collections section is devoted to oral histories and allows subjects to discuss the places in which they grew up and reflect on their heritage. Still another subsection of the Special Collections contains native speakers pronouncing place names, people names and idioms from well-known plays often produced in the theatre. The speakers sometimes add interesting commentary on these words and terms.\n\nThe geographical locations of all the subjects featured on the site can be viewed on IDEA's Global Map.\nThe Archive is used primarily by students of accents and dialects, researchers, linguists, actors and those wishing to either study English pronunciation or learn a new dialect or accent. Anyone can submit a sample recording by visiting the \"Submit A Sample\" page of the Website.\n\nUniversity of Kansas professor and dialect coach Paul Meier, author of \"Accents & Dialects for Stage and Screen\", created IDEA. Since its founding in 1997, the Archive has added approximately 70 associate editors, who are responsible for gathering new primary-source recordings. Senior editors are Eric Armstrong, Geraldine Cook, John Fleming, Bill McCann, and David Nevell. Cameron Meier is executive editor, and Dylan Paul is webmaster and special consultant.\n\nEntsminger, Brandy (November 10, 2008). \"KU Theatre Members Sing and Act in the Raunchy Play, \"Street Scene\".\" \"University Daily Kansan.\"\n\nGlobal English Editors. Global English . Retrieved 2011-07-22.\n\nGooch, William (March 20, 2009). \"Everything Old is New Again.\" \"Stage and Cinema.\"\n\nMeier, Paul (2001). \"Accents & Dialects for Stage and Screen.\" Lawrence, Kansas: Paul Meier Dialect Services. .\n\nMeier, Paul (Spring/Summer 1999). \"IDEA: An Online Database of Accent and Dialect Resources.\" \"VASTA\", p. 6.\n\nParkin, Lin (June 17, 2008). \"Got an IDEA of How English Dialects Sound?\" \"Voice Over Times.\"\nRoberts, Sam (January 16, 2006). \"Mayor's Accent Deserts Boston for New York.\" \"The New York Times.\"\n\nSingh, Anita (January 12, 2009). \"Unknown British Actress Set for Holywood Stardom After Becoming New Ally McBeal.\" \"The Telegraph.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9287055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9287055", "title": "Karl Kroeber", "text": "Karl Kroeber\n\nKarl Kroeber (November 24, 1926 – November 8, 2009) was an American literary scholar, known for his writing on the English Romantics and American Indian literature. He was the son of Theodora and Alfred L. Kroeber, both anthropologists. His most recent book was an account of his father's work with Ishi: \"Ishi in Three Centuries\".\n\nHe was professor of English and comparative literature at Columbia University. He wrote widely on literary criticism and its relationship to ecology, traditional literature, and art history.\n\nKroeber was the brother of the science fiction writer Ursula K. Le Guin. He was father of Paul Kroeber, a linguist; Arthur Kroeber, a journalist and consultant on the Chinese economy; and Katharine Kroeber Wiley, a writer.\n\nKroeber died of cancer on November 8, 2009 at the age of 82.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2161638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2161638", "title": "Lacnunga", "text": "Lacnunga\n\nThe Lacnunga ('Remedies') is a collection of miscellaneous Anglo-Saxon medical texts and prayers, written mainly in Old English and Latin. The title \"Lacnunga\", an Old English word meaning 'remedies', is not in the manuscript: it was given to the collection by its first editor, Oswald Cockayne, in the nineteenth century. It is found, following other medical texts, in London, British Library Manuscript Harley 585, a codex probably compiled in England in the late tenth or early eleventh century. Many of its herbal remedies are also found, in variant form, in \"Bald's Leechbook\", another Anglo-Saxon medical compendium.\n\nThe \"Lacnunga\" contains many unique texts, including numerous charms, some of which provide rare glimpses into Anglo-Saxon popular religion and healing practices. Among the charms are several incantations in Old English alliterative verse, the most famous being those known as \"For Delayed Birth\", the \"Nine Herbs Charm\" and \"Wið færstice\" ('Against a sudden, stabbing pain'). There are also several charms in corrupt Old Irish.\n\nAmong the Latin prayers, the longest is a redaction of the \"Lorica of Laidcenn\" (formerly often known as the \"Lorica of Gildas\"). This seventh-century Irish poem, also preserved in other manuscripts, is a member of the \"lorica\" genre of protective prayers. This instance takes the form of an extended litany of body parts for which the speaker seeks the protection of Christ and a multitude of angels from the assaults of demons. It is accompanied in this manuscript by an interlinear gloss in Old English, which probably derives from an exemplar in the Mercian dialect.\n\n"}
{"id": "6727352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6727352", "title": "Negrophobia", "text": "Negrophobia\n\nNegrophobia is a fear or hatred toward \"negro\" peoples worldwide. It can be influenced by various things, such as racism or traumatic events and circumstances.\n\nThe hybrid word \"negrophobia\" consists of two components: \"negro\" and \"phobia\". As such, it literally derives from \"fear of black\", from Spanish and Portuguese: \"negro\", \"black\" and from Greek: φόβος, phóbos, \"fear\". Other terms with similar meanings include \"antiblackness\" and \"blackophobia\". However, some publishers have discouraged designating individuals as \"blackophobes\" or \"negrophobes\" and rather highlight the general epithet that is usually applied to racists.\n\nAlthough \"melanophobia\" is sometimes confused with \"negrophobia\", the former term is more commonly applied to situations involving inanimate objects that are very dark or black. \"Negrophobia\" is also distinct from \"Afrophobia\", which is a perceived fear of the various cultures and peoples of Africa and the African diaspora irrespective of racial origin. Unlike \"negrophobia\", \"Afrophobia\" is thus essentially a cultural rather than a racial phenomenon.\n\nThere are differences in the senses that are applied to negrophobes or the noun negrophobia. Some senses use the term to describe discriminatory sentiment towards people who may identify with the black race. This sense adopts the notion that a person with negrophobia believes his or her race is superior over the black race with xenophobia. However an alternative definition stays true to the original clinical meaning of the suffix phobia. Thereby negrophobia is not associated with racism, but rather is associated with those who fear the black race. In July 2010, a segment on negrophobia was featured on \"The Rachel Maddow Show\" on MSNBC.\n\nSome, such as psychiatrist Frantz Fanon, assert that negrophobia is a form of \"trauma for white people of the Negro\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3618940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3618940", "title": "Quintipartite Deed", "text": "Quintipartite Deed\n\nThe Quintipartite Deed was a legal document that split the Province of New Jersey, dividing it into the Province of West Jersey and the Province of East Jersey from 1674 until 1702. \n\nOn July 1, 1676, William Penn, Gawen Lawrie (who served from 1683 to 1686 as Deputy to Governor Robert Barclay), Nicholas Lucas and Edward Byllynge executed a deed with Sir George Carteret known as the “Quintipartite Deed,” in which the territory was divided into two parts, East Jersey being taken by Carteret and West Jersey by Byllynge and his trustees. \n\nAlmost as soon as the Deed was signed, disputes arose over the exact dividing point of the two provinces. The first attempt at resolving the issue, the Keith line, was created by Surveyor-General George Keith in 1686, and runs North-Northwest from the southern part of Little Egg Harbor, passing just north of Tuckerton, and reaching upward to a point on the Delaware River which is just north of the Delaware Water Gap. More accurate surveys and maps were made to further resolve property disputes. This resulted in the Thornton line, drawn around 1696, and the Lawrence line, drawn around 1743, which was adopted as the final line for legal purposes.\n\nRemnants of the most operative line Keith Line can still be seen in the county boundaries between Burlington and Ocean and between Hunterdon and Somerset, as well as in a number of municipal boundaries within Mercer and Ocean counties, and the alignment of Province Line Road in Mercer County. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "57716492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57716492", "title": "Raczyński's Note", "text": "Raczyński's Note\n\nRaczyński's Note was the official diplomatic note of the Government of Poland in exile from December 10, 1942, signed by Minister of Foreign Affairs Edward Raczyński regarding the extermination of the Jews in Poland occupied by Germany. It was the first official report on the Holocaust, informing the Western public about these crimes. It was also the first official speech of one of the governments in defense of all Jews persecuted by Nazi Germany – not only citizens of their country.\n\nThe note was written by the Polish diplomat, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Exile Government in London Edward Raczyński on the basis of documents imported in the form of microfilm (materials prepared by the Jewish Affairs Department of the Home Army Headquarters) to London by courier Jan Karski and confirmed by his certificate, and Karski's reports prepared in 1940-1942 by Jan Karski. Raczyński's note was sent on December 10, 1942 to the governments of the signatory countries of the United Nations Declaration. It was personally addressed to other foreign ministers.\n\nOn behalf of the Polish government, Raczyński informed the governments of all Allied countries about the desperate situation of Jews in the German-occupied Poland and the unfolding genocide being carried by the Germans, calling for help.\n\nThe note has been written on 9 pages of the typescript. In 21 points it presented a description of the background of the problem and the current situation of Jews in occupied Poland, a chronological description of the information campaign of the Polish government on this area, and a call for allied governments to stop the crime. The note was sent to foreign ministers of the 26 governments that signed the Declaration by United Nations in 1942. Below is the note sent to Anthony Eden on 10 December 1942:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32802649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32802649", "title": "Robert Druitt", "text": "Robert Druitt\n\nRobert Druitt (December 1814 – 15 May 1883), was an English medical writer.\n\nDruitt, the son of a medical practitioner at Wimborne, Dorsetshire, was born in December 1814. After four years' pupillage with Mr. Charles Mayo, surgeon to the Winchester Hospital, he entered in 1834 as a medical student at King's College and the Middlesex Hospital in London. He became L.S.A. in 1836, and M.R.C.S. in 1837, and settled in general practice in Bruton Street, Berkeley Square.\n\nIn 1839 he published the \"Surgeon's Vade-Mecum\", for which he is best known. Written in a very clear and simple style, it became a great favourite with students, and the production of successive editions occupied much of the author's time. The eleventh edition appeared in 1878, and in all more than forty thousand copies were sold. It was reprinted in America, and translated into several European languages.\n\nIn 1845 Druitt became F.R.C.S. by examination, and in 1874 F.R.C.P., later receiving the Lambeth degree of M.D. He practised successfully for many years, and also engaged in much literary work, having for ten years (1862–72) edited the \"Medical Times and Gazette\". He was an earnest advocate of improved sanitation, and from 1856 to 1867 was one of the medical officers of health for St. George's, Hanover Square. From 1864 to 1872 he was president of the Metropolitan Association of Medical Officers of Health, before which he delivered numerous valuable addresses.\n\nIn 1872 his health broke down, and he for some time lived in Madras, whence he wrote some interesting \"Letters from Madras\" to the \"Medical Times and Gazette\". On his retirement 370 medical men and other friends presented him with a cheque for 1,215l. in a silver cup, \"in evidence of their sympathy with him in a prolonged illness, induced by years of generous and unwearied labours in the cause of humanity, and as a proof of their appreciation of the services rendered by him as an author and sanitary reformer to both the public and the profession.\" After an exhausting illness he died at Kensington on 15 May 1883. In 1845 he had married a Miss Hopkinson, who with three sons and four daughters survived him.\n\nDruitt was a man of wide culture, being well versed in languages, as well as in science and theology. Church music was one of his special studies, and as early as 1845 he wrote a \"Popular Tract on Church Music\". Besides his principal work, Druitt wrote a small work on \"Cheap Wines, their use in Diet and Medicine\", which appeared first in the \"Medical Times and Gazette\" in 1863 and 1864, and was twice reprinted in an enlarged form in 1865 and 1873. In 1872 he contributed an important article on \"Inflammation\" to Cooper's \"Dictionary of Practical Surgery\". Among his minor writings may also be mentioned his paper on the \"Construction and Management of Human Habitations, considered in relation to the Public Health\" (Transactions of the Royal Institute of British Architects, 1859–60).\n"}
{"id": "39395000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39395000", "title": "S v Tembani (2006)", "text": "S v Tembani (2006)\n\nIn S v Tembani, an important case in South African criminal law, the Supreme Court of Appeal held that the deliberate infliction of an intrinsically dangerous wound, from which the victim was likely to die without medical intervention, must generally lead to liability for an ensuing death, whether or not the wound was readily treatable, and even if the medical treatment given later was substandard or negligent—unless the victim had so recovered that at the time of the negligent treatment the original injury no longer posed a danger to his life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28351735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28351735", "title": "Scharf-Gerstenberg Collection", "text": "Scharf-Gerstenberg Collection\n\nThe Scharf-Gerstenberg Collection () is an art museum in Berlin. Its collection of paintings, graphics and sculptures, spanning the period from French Romanticism to Surrealism, is currently housed in former rooms of the Egyptian Museum in Charlottenburg on a ten-year loan. It was founded in 2008, and is part of the National Gallery of Berlin.\n\nThe works on display are owned by the \"Foundation of the Dieter Scharf Collection in Remembrance of Otto Gerstenberg\". Gerstenberg was an early 20th-century Berlin art collector, whose collection was partly destroyed and partly seized as plunder (ending up in Russian museums) during the war. After Gerstenberg's death in 1935, his paintings went to his daughter, Margarete Scharf, who stored most in the bunker of the Nationalgalerie in Berlin during the war. These were taken to the Soviet Union. But some were put in storage and burned in an air raid. The surviving artworks remained in family ownership and were inherited by his grandson, Dieter Scharf. This collection of graphics was to be the foundation of Scharf's own acquisitions, and in 2000 Scharf's collection was put on display in Berlin under the name \"Surreal Worlds\". Shortly before his death in 2001 he transferred these works to the new Foundation. There is currently a ten-year loan agreement between this foundation and the Berlin State Museums, while the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation has allowed it the use of the East Stüler Building in Charlottenburg.\n\nThe Scharf-Gerstenberg Collection is located on Schloßstraße, opposite the present-day Berggruen Museum (in the West Stüler Building). Both buildings are separated from Charlottenburg Palace by the Spandau Dam. They originate from designs by the Prussian king Frederick William IV, implemented by the architect Friedrich August Stüler from 1851-59. Both the Stüler Buildings originally served as officer barracks for the Gardes du Corps regiment. The East Building is part of the old Marstall Building (constructed 1855-58 by Wilhelm Drewitz), and together these two housed the Egyptian Museum between 1967 and 2005. From 2005-08 they were renovated for future use by the Scharf-Gerstenberg Museum, under the architectural direction of Gregor Sunder-Plassmann.\n\nThe works inherited by Dieter Scharf from his grandfather's collection include graphics by Goya, Hugo, Klinger, Manet, Meryon and Piranesi. The works by these artists formed the foundation on which Scharf built his own collection of symbolist and surrealist art.\n\nBesides paintings by Dalí, Dubuffet, Ernst, Magritte, Masson, Moreau, Redon, Rousseau and Tanguy, as well as sculptures by Ernst, Laurens, Lipchitz and Tàpies, the key works of the collection are graphics, following the example set by Gerstenberg. Other artists in the collection include Baumeister, Bellmer, Brauner, Éluard, Ensor, Giacometti, Grosz, Janssen, Klee, Léger, Miró, Munch, Oelze, Picabia, Picasso, Schwitters, Seurat, Tobey, and Wols.\n\nThe Scharf-Gerstenberg Collection thematically complements the exhibition \"Picasso and His Time\" in the Berggruen Museum located opposite. Some artists, such as Picasso, Klee and Giacometti, are featured in both collections. The Kalabsha Gate and the columns from the ancient Sahure Temple, both owned by the Egyptian Museum, will also be on display in the Scharf-Gerstenberg Museum until the completion of the Pergamon Museum's fourth exhibition wing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "184721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=184721", "title": "Scott catalogue", "text": "Scott catalogue\n\nThe Scott Catalogue of postage stamps, published by Scott Publishing Co, a subsidiary of Amos Media, is updated annually and lists all the stamps of the entire world which its editors recognize as issued for postal purposes. It is published in eight large volumes (as of 2015) that include six volumes containing all the countries of the world that have ever issued postage stamps, the \"United States Specialized Catalog\", and the \"1840-1940 Classic Specialized Catalogue\" (covering the world for the first 100 years that stamps were issued). It is also produced in non-printable CD and DVD editions. The numbering system used by Scott to identify stamps is dominant among stamp collectors in the United States, Canada and Mexico.\n\nThe first Scott catalogue was a 21-page pamphlet with the title\n\"Descriptive Catalogue of American and Foreign Postage Stamps, Issued from 1840 to Date, Splendidly Illustrated with Colored Engravings and Containing the Current Value of each Variety\". It was published in September 1868 by John Walter Scott, an early stamp dealer in New York, and purported to list all the stamps of the world, with prices for each. A notice inside does caution the reader that \"it is simply impossible for any one to always have every stamp\" in stock. The original catalog has been reprinted.\n\nIn subsequent years, the Scott company gave up dealing in stamps but continued to publish the catalog, gradually providing more detail as the hobby evolved and collectors became more sophisticated. In addition to the factual information about the stamps, the catalog includes price information based on market analysis and reported sales from the previous year. As of 2006, and despite annual changes to save space, the catalog was more than 5,000 pages.\nThe Scott numbering system assigns plain numbers for regular mail stamps, and uses capital letter prefixes for special-purpose types, such as \"B\" for semi-postals and \"C\" for airmail. The numbers are generally consecutive; there are gaps among older stamps, where some numbered types were later renumbered, and among newer stamps where Scott has left numbers unassigned in the anticipation of additional stamps in a series. If more stamps than expected appear, Scott will add a capital letter as suffix, or if the change is very recent, it will renumber stamps. Minor variations, such as shades or errors, get a lowercase letter; so the \"C3a\" above indicates a variation (error in this case) on what is listed as the third US airmail stamp.\n\nBecause of its commercial importance the publishers of the Scott Catalogue claim copyright on their numbering systems, and grant only limited licenses for their use by others. The inconsistency with which Scott enforced these licenses resulted in a lawsuit by Krause Publications (publishers of the Minkus Catalogue) for copyright infringement. After Krause filed a defense, the suit was settled out of court, and Krause continued to reference the Scott numbers.\n\nEditors of this, the dominant catalog in the US, have great influence over what is and is not considered to be a valid postage stamp. For instance, in the 1960s the countries of the United Arab Emirates issued many stamps that were likely never actually on sale in a post office, so Scott does not list most of them. One must go to a Michel catalog, for instance, to see them described. The lack of a Scott listing, though, means that most American dealers will refuse to trade in such stamps.\nSimilarly, Scott lists most stamps from countries embargoed by the US government, and in some cases lists them without catalog values. To some extent, this is unavoidable, since the ban on importation means that Scott's editors are unable even to acquire copies of the stamps to be described. Moreover, since US dealers and collectors are unable to buy the stamps legally, they are unlikely to have any need of the data. (Again, interested persons typically use Michel or other catalogs instead.) The policy changes with government policy; stamps of Cuba, Libya and North Vietnam now appear in the Scott catalogues after an absence of some years.\n\nThe dominance of Scott is such that US collectors know many of the numbers by heart, and dealers need only mention the number in their price lists. For instance, United States no. \"C3a\" is instantly recognized as the Inverted Jenny, a rare US airmail inverted error stamp.\n\nThe contents of each volume (in current editions) are as follows:\n\n\nThe new volume format was introduced starting with the 2011 edition. Catalogues produced before the 2011 edition featured a different format which is as follows:\n\n\nEach year, the stamps featured on the cover of the catalogue follow a specific theme as follows:\n\n\nIn May, 2001 Scott announced a project to include a scan of each stamp in its catalogues. Many were made from its own reference collection and introduced in the six volume 2002 edition as black and white images. Color images were introduced in 2003 in the \"Classic Specialized Catalogue\" and in 2005 in the \"Specialized Catalogue of United States\". In 2006 color images were included in the main Scott catalogues. Shortly after the program was announced, Scott Publishing received a letter from Hsien-ming Meng, a physician in Dayton, Ohio, and worldwide collector of mint stamps with a nearly complete collection. Dr. Meng offered to permit scanning of his collection, an offer that was eagerly accepted by Scott Publishing. Scans from Dr. Meng's collection began appearing in volume 4 of the 2002 catalog. Together with generous access by many other collectors, Meng's cooperation has resulted in creation of scanned images of all but 500 stamps by Scott as of 2011. Meng, born in 1926, died February 8, 2011.\n\nScott Publishing Co also produces a related volume which more comprehensively lists all United States Postage Stamps and Postal History. It is generally known as the \"Scott Specialized\" and is regarded by many as the definitive single volume reference to USA postage stamps. The catalogue provides more detail than Volume One, with particular emphasis on varieties and errors. A new edition of the catalogue is produced annually with a particular edition year date generally indicating production in the middle of the previous year. Biannual Valuing Supplements are also issued in the Spring and Fall.\n\n\"Scott Classic Specialized Catalogue: Stamps and Covers of the World\" is limited to stamps and covers that were produced between 1840-1940 or for the British Commonwealth nations to 1952. It covers all postage stamp producing nations in one volume for those years.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "690676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=690676", "title": "Seattle Art Museum", "text": "Seattle Art Museum\n\nThe Seattle Art Museum (commonly known as \"SAM\") is an art museum located in Seattle, Washington. It maintains three major facilities: its main museum in downtown Seattle; the Seattle Asian Art Museum (SAAM) in Volunteer Park on Capitol Hill, and the open Olympic Sculpture Park on the central Seattle waterfront, which opened on January 20, 2007.\n\n The SAM collection has grown from 1,926 pieces in 1933 to nearly 25,000 as of 2008. Its original museum provided an area of ; the present facilities provide plus a park. Paid staff have increased from 7 to 303, and the museum library has grown from approximately 1,400 books to 33,252.\n\nSAM traces its origins to the Seattle Fine Arts Society (organized 1905) and the Washington Arts Association (organized 1906), which merged in 1917, keeping the Fine Arts Society name. In 1931 the group renamed itself as the Art Institute of Seattle. The Art Institute housed its collection in Henry House, the former home, on Capitol Hill, of the collector and founder of the Henry Art Gallery, Horace C. Henry (1844–1928).\n\nRichard E. Fuller, president of the Seattle Fine Arts Society, was the animating figure of SAM in its early years. During the Great Depression, he and his mother, Margaret MacTavish Fuller, donated $250,000 to build an art museum in Volunteer Park on Seattle's Capitol Hill. The city provided the land and received ownership of the building. Carl F. Gould of the architectural firm Bebb and Gould designed an Art Deco/Art Moderne building for the museum, which opened June 23, 1933. The Art Institute collection formed the core of the original SAM collection; the Fullers soon donated additional pieces. The Art Institute was responsible for managing art activities when the museum first opened. Fuller served as museum director into the 1970s, never taking a salary.\n\nSAM joined with the National Council on the Arts (later NEA), Richard Fuller, and the Seattle Foundation (in part, another Fuller family endeavor) to acquire and install Isamu Noguchi's sculpture \"Black Sun\" in front of the museum in Volunteer Park. It was the NEA's first commission in Seattle.\nIn 1983–1984, the museum received a donation of half of a downtown city block, the former J. C. Penney department store on the west side of Second Avenue between Union and Pike Streets. They eventually decided that this particular block was not a suitable site: that land was sold for private development as the Newmark Building, and the museum acquired land in the next block south. On December 5, 1991, SAM reopened in a $62 million downtown facility designed by Robert Venturi. The next year, one of Jonathan Borofsky's \"Hammering Man\" sculptures was installed outside the museum as part of Seattle City Light's One Percent for Art program. \"Hammering Man\" would have been installed in time for the museum's opening, but on September 28, 1991, as workers attempted to erect the piece, it fell, was damaged, and had to be returned to the foundry for repairs. \"Hammering Man\" was used in a guerrilla art installation on Labor Day in 1993 when Jason Sprinkle and other local artists attached a ball and chain to the leg of the sculpture. In 1994, the Volunteer Park facility reopened as the Seattle Asian Art Museum. In 2007, the Olympic Sculpture Park opened to the public, culminating an 8-year process.\n\nAmong the museum's notable exhibitions (besides the aforementioned \"Treasures of Tutankhamun\") were a 1954 exhibition of 25 European paintings and sculptures from the Samuel H. Kress Foundation; these pieces were donated to SAM in 1961. A 1959 Van Gogh exhibit drew 126,100 visitors. That same year, SAM organized a retrospective of the work of Northwest School painter Mark Tobey that traveled to four other U.S. museums. Tobey's works and highlights of SAM's Asian collection were featured under the museum's aegis at the Century 21 Exposition (the 1962 Seattle World's Fair). A Jacob Lawrence retrospective in 1974 honored a giant of African American art who had settled in Seattle four years earlier. \"Leonardo Lives\" (1997) featured the Codex Leicester, the last manuscript of Leonardo da Vinci in private hands, which had then been recently purchased by Bill Gates.\n\nAs of June 2008, the SAM collection includes nearly 25,000 pieces. Among them are Alexander Calder's \"Eagle\" (1971) and Richard Serra's \"Wake\" (2004), both at the Olympic Sculpture Park; the aforementioned \"Hammering Man\"; Cai Guo-Qiang's \"Inopportune: Stage One\" (2004), a sculpture constructed from cars and sequenced multi-channel light tubes on display in the lobby of the SAM Downtown; \"The Judgment of Paris\" (c. 1516-18) by Lucas Cranach the Elder; Mark Tobey's \"Electric Night\" (1944); \"Yéil X'eenh (Raven Screen)\" (c. 1810), attributed to the Tlingit artist Kadyisdu.axch'; Do-Ho Suh's \"Some/One\" (2001); and a coffin in the shape of a Mercedes Benz (1991) by Kane Quaye of Ghana. While SAM's collections of modern and ethnic art are notable, its collection of more-traditional European painting and sculpture is quite thin, and the Museum relies on traveling exhibitions rather than its own collection to fill that notable gap. Nevertheless, there are early Italian paintings by Dalmasio Scannabecchi, Puccio di Simone, Giovanni di Paolo, Luca Di Tomme, Bartolomeo Vivarini, and Paolo Uccello. There are paintings by V. Sellaer, Jan Molenaer, Emanuel De Witte, Luca Giordano, Luca Carlevaris, Armand Guillaumin, and Camille Pissarro. This museum also has a large collection of Twentieth-century American paintings by Jacob Lawrence and Mark Tobey. There is an appreciable collection of Aboriginal Australian art.\n\nThe museum returned a painting by Henri Matisse to the heirs of 1930s French-Jewish impressionist and post-impressionist art dealer Paul Rosenberg that had been looted by Nazis in World War II, after having requested that the family sue in order to reach a legal settlement that included another art dealer. So in October 1997, Rosenberg's family filed suit in District Court, to recover the painting \"Odalisque\" (1927 or 1928). It was the first lawsuit against an American museum concerning ownership of Nazi plunder during World War II. Then museum director Mimi Gardner Gates brokered an 11th hour settlement that returned the artwork, after which the museum sued the gallery which had sold it the painting in the 1950s. Author Héctor Feliciano said it was only the second instance in the US of a museum returning looted art.\n\nThe Seattle Art Museum contains the Dorothy Stimson Bullitt Library and the McCaw Foundation Library of Art.\n\nThe Dorothy Stimson Bullitt Library was founded in 1991. As of 2011 it contained 20,000 books and subscribed to 100 periodicals. It specializes in African art, contemporary art, decorative ars, European art, Modern art, and photography.\n\nThe McCaw Foundation Library of Asian Art was founded in 1933. As of 2011 it contained 15000 book volumes and subscribed to 100 periodicals. It specializes in Asian art.\n\nThe museum's main collection moved to its present location on First Avenue in December 1991; the museum's original building became the Seattle Asian Art Museum in 1994. The building, a limestone-covered rectangle with a streak of tile and terra cotta around its outside, is located at University Street and First Avenue, and was completed by Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates at with a $28,100,000 budget.\nIn 2006, the Seattle Art Museum began expanding its 1991 location in a joint effort with Washington Mutual (WaMu); the enlarged building was originally known as the WaMu Center. The expansion actually began in July 2004. Several pieces had to be temporarily moved to prevent them from being damaged due to vibrations during construction. This would have been the initial foundation phase of the WaMu Center. In addition to reworking the Venturi building, SAM now takes up the first four floors of a 16-floor building designed by Portland, Oregon architect Brad Cloepfil. SAM also owns the next eight floors, which WaMu originally rented; Washington Mutual owned the top four floors. As SAM expands in the future, it can take over one or more of the rented floors.\n\nBecause of the construction, the museum's downtown location was closed from January 5, 2006 to May 5, 2007. The expanded building offers 70 percent more gallery space, an expanded museum store, and a new restaurant. In anticipation of the expansion, over a thousand new pieces, with a total value over a billion dollars, were donated to the collection.\n\nWashington Mutual's 2008 failure and subsequent acquisition by JPMorganChase resulted in Northwestern Mutual purchasing WaMu's share of the building September 9, 2009, and renaming it the Russell Investments Center. Currently, Russell Investments, a Northwestern Mutual subsidiary, is headquartered there, having relocated from Tacoma, Washington.\n\nAdmission to the SAM's indoor facilities is free on the first Thursday of each month; SAM also offers free admission the first Saturday of the month. And even the normal admission is suggested, meaning that the museum would like visitors to pay the complete admission but if they can not pay fully they can still enjoy the museum.\n\nAfter the Century 21 Exposition, the fairgrounds became Seattle Center, and the UK Pavilion became the Modern Art Pavilion of the museum. It remained in use until 1987.\n\nThe Seattle Asian Art Museum (SAAM) has been located since 1994 in the original 1933 Deco/Moderne SAM facility in Volunteer Park on Seattle's Capitol Hill.\n\nThe Olympic Sculpture Park is a free and open public park on the Seattle waterfront just north of downtown. It opened on January 20, 2007.\n\nKimerly Rorschach was hired in 2012 to lead the Seattle Art Museum.\n\nThe Seattle Art Museum only receives 4% of its funding from the government; the rest of its operating costs are covered by ticket fees and its membership base. As of 2014, the museum has a $23 million budget. As a result of the banking crisis, the museum in 2009 lost $5.8 million in annual rental and related income from its tenant Washington Mutual. It faced an accumulated debt of $56 million dating back from when the museum and Washington Mutual partnered on a new downtown building they intended to share. After the bank was sold to JPMorgan Chase in 2008, it left the museum with eight floors of office space, at a cost of about $5.8 million a year. Help came in the form of grants from the JPMorgan Chase and the Gates Foundation. The museum’s endowment for art purchases is currently at less than $7.8 million.\n\nWhile the number of visitors has grown, the pattern is more complicated: 346,287 people visited the museum in its first year; in 1978 the traveling exhibit \"Treasures of Tutankhamun\" (shown in the facility at Seattle Center) drew 1.3 million visitors in a mere four months; 2007 attendance was 797,127. In 2010, the exhibition \"Picasso: Masterpieces from the Musée National Picasso, Paris\" drew more than 405,000 people and was the museum's most-attended exhibition since it moved to its downtown location from Volunteer Park in 1991. In SAM's history, only the 1978 King Tut exhibition, held at Seattle Center, ranked higher in attendance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8965605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8965605", "title": "Seder Olam Zutta", "text": "Seder Olam Zutta\n\nSeder Olam Zutta (Hebrew: סדר עולם זוטא) is an anonymous chronicle from 804 CE, called \"Zuṭta\" (= \"smaller,\" or \"younger\") to distinguish it from the older \"Seder 'Olam Rabbah.\" This work is based upon, and to a certain extent completes and continues, the older chronicle. It consists of two main parts: the first, comprising about three-fifths of the whole, deals with the chronology of the 50 generations from Adam to Jehoiakim (who, according to this chronicle, was the father of the Babylonian exilarch), the second deals with 39 generations of exilarchs, beginning with Jehoiachin.\n\nIt is apparent that the object of this work was to show that the Babylonian exilarchs were direct descendants of David. After a short introduction, taken from the \"Seder 'Olam Rabbah\", giving the general chronology from Adam to the destruction of the Second Temple—a period of 3,828 years—and stating the number of years which elapsed between the most important events, such as between the Flood and the confusion of tongues, etc., the chronology recommences with Adam. The \"Seder 'Olam Zuṭa\" is more complete at this point than the larger work, as it gives the duration of the generations between Adam and Abraham, which is lacking in the \"Seder 'Olam Rabbah.\" It gives also the lifetime of each of Jacob's twelve sons as recorded by tradition. Otherwise it merely enumerates the generations.\n\nFrom David onward it gives the names of the high priests and prophets who lived in the time of each king. Thus, for instance, David had Abiathar as high priest, and Nathan and Gad as prophets; Solomon, who ascended the throne at the age of three, had Zadok for high priest, and Jonathan, Iddo, and Ahijah as prophets. In this way it completes the list of the high priests enumerated in et seq. Shallum (verses 38-39) officiated in the time of Amon, and between the former and Azariah, who served in the time of Rehoboam, there were 12 high priests. But in I Chronicles (l.c.) only five high priests are enumerated, whose names are not found at all among those given by the \"Seder 'Olam Zuṭa.\" The author of the work divided these 50 generations into five series, each of 10 generations, the last of each series being, respectively, Noah, Abraham, Boaz, Ahaziah, and Jehoiakim.\n\nThe second part of the work begins with the statement that Jehoiachin, who reigned only three months and ten days, was carried into captivity by Nebuchadnezzar. He was afterward given high rank by Evil-merodach, thus becoming the first prince of the Captivity. Correcting the somewhat confused genealogical account of , the \"Seder 'Olam Zuṭa\" declares that Jehoiachin had four sons, the eldest of whom was Shealtiel, who succeeded his father.\n\nIt is worthwhile noting that, according to this chronicle, Darius conquered Babylon after it had been supreme for 70 years, beginning with the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, and 52 years after the destruction of the First Temple. Zerubbabel, Shealtiel's son, who departed for Jerusalem in the first year of the reign of Cyrus, returned to Babylon after the Temple and the walls of Jerusalem had been rebuilt by Ezra, and succeeded his father in the exilarchate.\n\nThen the chronicle enumerates the successive exilarchs, the account being in part taken from et seq., but differing greatly from the text of the latter. In fact, the first, 13th, 16th, 18th, and 19th exilarchs (the last one being Shaphat, the father of Anan, whose lives extended over a period of more than 600 years, are mentioned in I Chron. (l.c.) not as immediate successors, but as related individuals, and in contemporaneous groups. Sometimes, too, the father in I Chronicles is the son in the \"Seder 'Olam Zuṭa\".\n\nWith the deaths of Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi—more exactly, in the 52nd year of the Persian domination, or year 3442 of the creation—prophecy ceased and the period of the wise men (\"ḥakamim\") began. From Hananiah (Zerubbabel's grandson) onward every exilarch is indicated as having been guided by wise men. The names of the kings that reigned over Judea from Alexander the Great to Roman Palaestina during the destruction of the Second Temple are given. Like the \"Seder 'Olam Rabbah\", this chronicle gives the reigns of the Maccabees and the Herods as covering 103 years each. The Herodian dynasty consisted, according to the \"Seder 'Olam Zuṭa\", of three kings only—Herod, Agrippa, and Monobaz; at the end of Monobaz's reign and during the time of the 11th exilarch, Shechaniah, the son of Shemaiah, the Romans destroyed the Temple. Further, from Nahum, the 17th exilarch, the names are given of the wise men, probably the chiefs of the academy, who assisted the exilarchs. With Rab Huna, 29th exilarch, the direct male line of descent from David terminated. The exilarchs following are stated to have been descendants of Rab Huna through his daughter, the wife of R. Hananiah, the head of the yeshibah, whose marriage is related at length.\n\nAfter having stated that Mar-Zutra II, the 13th exilarch, was executed in the year 502 C.E., and that his posthumous son Mar-Zutra III betook himself, in the year 4280 of the Creation (= 520 C.E.), to Palaestina Prima, where he became chief of the Sanhedrin, the chronicle mentions eight succeeding exilarchs, the last one being Rab Ḥaẓub, son of Rab Phinehas. Apart from certain misstatements, this part contains many authenticated facts, and is therefore considered by modern scholars as a document of historical value. It may be seen that the lives of 31 exilarchs covered a period of more than 900 years, averaging three exilarchs to a century. This might help to determine the time at which the \"Seder 'Olam Zuṭa\" was written, for the 39th exilarch, according to this estimate, would have lived at the end of the 8th century. The additions of the copyists, however, render this task difficult.\n\nIn a fragment of a chronicle published by A. Neubauer (\"M. J. C.\" i. 197) there is a sentence, regarding the reign of John Hyrcanus, which is found in the \"Seder 'Olam Zuṭa\" but is referred to the \"Seder 'Olam de-Rabbanan.\" Lazarus (Brüll's \"Jahrb.\" x. 8) supposes that after \"de-Rabbanan\" the word \"Sabura'e\" should be inserted, as a chronicle under the title \"Seder 'Olam de-Rabbanan Sabura'e\" is mentioned by Baruch b. Isaac of Worms (\"Sefer ha-Terumah,\" Hilkot \"Abodah Zarah,\" § 135) and by Moses of Coucy (\"Sefer Miẓwot Gadol,\" ii. 866), in connection with the statement that the year 4564 (= 804 C.E.) was a Sabbatical year. This induced many modern scholars, as H. Grätz, Steinschneider, and Zunz, to identify the \"Seder 'Olam Zuṭa\" with the \"Seder 'Olam de Rabbanan Sabura'e.\"\n\nAs to the determination of the time of its redaction, there have existed many differences of opinion among authorities. Zunz observed that the sentence quoted by R. Baruch and Moses of Coucy with regard to the year 804 C.E. (see above) might be the author's colophon—omitted by the copyist—showing the time of composition. Zunz's opinion has since apparently been confirmed by a manuscript of the \"Seder 'Olam Zuṭa\" (Parma, De Rossi MSS., No. 541, 10, published by S. Schechter in \"Monatsschrift,\" xxxix. 23 et seq.) which lacks the introduction spoken of above, but has at the end the following sentence: \"From Adam to this day, which is the eleventh day of Kislew of the Sabbatical year, 4,564 years have elapsed\": this gives the year 804 C.E. However, a closer examination of the text seems to show that the enumeration of the eight exilarchs following Mar-Zutra III was added by two later hands—that of six by one, and that of two, Phinehas and Hazub, by another—and that the chronicle was composed in the first quarter of the 6th century.\n\nFor the editions and Latin translations of the \"Seder 'Olam Zuṭa\", see Seder Olam Rabbah. It must be added that Abraham Zacuto inserted in his \"Yuḥasin\" the greater part of this chronicle, his text being more nearly correct than that of any other edition or manuscript. Zacuto's text was republished by A. Neubauer in his \"Mediæval Jewish Chronicles\" (ii. 67 et seq.), where the text of the Mantua edition also is given. The second part, dealing with the exilarchs, has been edited by Lazarus in Brüll's \"Jahrb.\" (x. 157 et seq.).\n\nRecent scholarship ascribes authorship to the 10th-century Nathan HaBavli of Kairouan\nIn addition to the sources mentioned in the article:\n\n"}
{"id": "20024456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20024456", "title": "St. George's Cathedral, Addis Ababa", "text": "St. George's Cathedral, Addis Ababa\n\nSaint George's Cathedral is an Ethiopian Orthodox church in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. The cathedral is noted for its distinctive octagonal form. It is located at the northern end of Churchill Road in the city.\n\nThe new church was built on the ruins of an older church from the 15th century. It was named after St. George, after the Tabot (Ark) of the church was carried to the Battle of Adwa against the Italians during which the Ethiopians secured victory. The building was described in 1938 in an Italian tourist publication as a fine example of the European interpretation of Ethiopian church design. The Italian Fascist authorities set the building on fire during the war in 1937. The cathedral was later restored by the Emperor following the liberation in 1941.\n\nEmpress Zewditu of Ethiopia was crowned at this Cathedral in 1917, and Emperor Haile Selassie was crowned there in 1930, and it became a pilgrimage site for Rastafarians. The Cathedral has a museum, and an Imperial throne is on display as is the stained glass works of artist Afewerk Tekle. Given the reason why the cathedral was named, it displays weaponry used in the wars against the Italians including curved swords and tridents and giant helmets made from the manes of lions.\n"}
{"id": "650105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650105", "title": "São Paulo Museum of Art", "text": "São Paulo Museum of Art\n\nThe São Paulo Museum of Art (, or \"\") is an art museum located on Paulista Avenue in the city of São Paulo, Brazil. It is well known for its headquarters, a 1968 concrete and glass structure designed by Lina Bo Bardi, whose main body is supported by two lateral beams over a freestanding space, considered a landmark of the city and a main symbol of modern Brazilian architecture.\n\nThe museum is a private non-profit institution founded in 1947 by Assis Chateaubriand and Pietro Maria Bardi. MASP distinguished itself for many important initiatives concerning museology and art education in Brazil, as well as for its pioneering role as a cultural center. It was also the first Brazilian museum interested in Post-World War II artistic tendencies.\n\nThe museum is internationally recognized for its collection of European art, considered the finest in Latin America and all Southern Hemisphere. It also houses an emphatic assemblage of Brazilian art, prints and drawings, as well as smaller collections of African and Asian art, antiquities, decorative arts, and others, amounting to more than 8,000 pieces. MASP also has one of the largest art libraries in the country. The entire collection has been named by Brazil's Institute of History and Art to the Brazilian National Heritage list.\n\nAt the end of the 1940s, Brazilian economy was passing through large structural changes, consolidating the transition from an era dependent on coffee cycle to one of growing industrialization. The state of São Paulo specifically was attracting many industries and workers from many regions of the country and the world, and the city of São Paulo, in particular, had established itself as the most important industrial hub in the country.\n\nRegarding the artistic life, however, São Paulo's most notable reference was still the Week of Modern Art of 1922. Despite the importance this event had enjoyed in the 1920s, Modernism wouldn't draw much attention of city dwellers and institutions in the following decades. There was only one art museum in São Paulo, the Pinacoteca do Estado, solely devoted to Academic art, besides a commercial gallery.\n\nAssis Chateaubriand, founder and owner of \"Diários Associados,\" or \"Associated Daily Press\", the largest media and press conglomerate of Brazil at the time, was one of the most influential individuals of this period. Jockingly nicknamed \"King of Brazil\", he was a very active partaker in the national moves toward modernization. Backed by the power of his press conglomerate, Chateaubriand used to pressure Brazilian political and economical elite to help him in his \"public campaigns\". In the mid-1940s, Chateaubriand created the \"Campanha da Aviação\" (\"aviation campaign\"), which consisted of vigorous fundraising to acquire training aircraft, at the aim of endowing the country with a proper aviation system. As a result, more than one thousand aircraft were donated to Brazilian aviation schools.\n\nAfter the end of the \"Campanha da Aviação\", Chateaubriand would start a new campaign, with the boldly intent of acquiring masterpieces to form an art collection of international standard in Brazil. He intended to host the museum in Rio de Janeiro, but chose São Paulo where he believed it would be easier to gather the necessary funds, since this city was enjoying a very prosperous moment. At the same time, the European art market had been deeply influenced by the end of World War II, making it possible to acquire fine artworks for reasonable prices.\n\nChateaubriand would need the help of an expert in the selection of the artworks. With that purpose, he invited Pietro Maria Bardi, an Italian professor, critic and art dealer, former owner of galleries in Milan and Rome, to help him create a \"Museum of Classical and Modern Art\". Bardi objected that there shouldn't be distinctions among arts, proposing simply a \"Museum of Art\", and accepted the invitation. Planning to lead the project for only a year, Bardi would dedicate the rest of his life to it. He moved to Brazil together with his wife, the architect Lina Bo Bardi, and brought along his library and his private art collection.\n\nThe museum was inaugurated and opened to public visitation on October 2, 1947, displaying the first acquisitions, amongst which canvases by Picasso and Rembrandt. In these first years of activity, the museum was located on the first floor of the Diarios Associados headquarters. Lina Bo Bardi was in charge of adapting the building to the needs of the museum, dividing it into four distinct areas: art gallery, a didactic exposition room about history of art, temporary exhibition room and an auditorium. MASP was the first Brazilian institution interested in acquiring works of modern art. The museum would quickly become a meeting point for artists, students and intellectuals, attracted not only by its holdings, but also because of the workshops and courses about history of art, temporary exhibitions of national and foreigner artists, and the educative program, open to receive manifestations of multiple fields of art, such as theater, cinema and music.\n\nIn the 1950s the museum increased its didactic performance, creating the Institute of Contemporary Art (offering workshops of engraving, drawing, painting, sculpture, dance and industrial design), the Publicity School (presently Superior School of Propaganda and Marketing), organizing debates about cinema and literature and creating a juvenile orchestra and a ballet company. The courses were frequently given by important names of the Brazilian artistic scene, such as the painters Lasar Segall and Roberto Sambonet, the architects Gian Carlo Palanti and Lina Bo Bardi, the sculptor August Zamoyski, and the motion-picture technician Alberto Cavalcanti.\n\nAlong with the amplification of the educational program, the museum witnessed the growth in importance of its collection and the international recognition of the institution. Between 1953 and 1957, a selection of 100 masterpieces of the museum's collection traveled throughout European museums, such as Musée de l'Orangerie (Paris) and the Tate Gallery (London), in a series of exhibitions organized with the intent of consolidating the collection. In 1957, the collection was also displayed in the United States, at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and in the Toledo Museum of Art. The following year, the holdings of MASP were exhibited at other Brazilian venues, such as the Museu Nacional de Belas Artes, in Rio de Janeiro.\n\nThe high-level of art excellence of its exhibitions promoted the museum those first years. Great notoriety and prestige were the results, which increased attendance and greater interest in fine arts.\n\nThe collection's rising amount and importance soon required the construction of a building to headquarter the museum. With that purpose, the São Paulo City Hall donated a plot of ground, previously occupied by the Belvedere Trianon – a traditional meeting point of the Paulistano wealthy, which had been demolished in 1951 – to host the first edition of São Paulo Art Biennial. The ground on Paulista Avenue had been donated to the City Hall with the condition that the view to the downtown area and the valley of the Nove de Julho Avenue be preserved.\n\nThe new MASP building is the brainchild of Lina Bo Bardi. In order to preserve the required view of the downtown area, Bardi idealized a sustained building, supported by four massive concrete plain rectangular columns. The construction is considered to be unique worldwide for its peculiarity: the main body of the building stands on four lateral supporting pillars, generating a free area of 74 meters underneath the sustained building. Constructed between 1956 and 1968, the new site of the museum was inaugurated on November 7 by Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom during her visit to Brazil.\n\nAssis Chateaubriand would not get to see the inauguration of the new building. He died months before, victime of thrombosis. The media empire which he raised had also been facing difficulties since the beginning of the 1960s. Growing debts and the competition in the media market by Roberto Marinho's press conglomerate – caused the scarcity of the funds which had permitted the gathering of the collection.\n\nThe overthrow of Diários Associados and the death of its founder made the government intervene and pay for some of the debts contracted with foreign institutions. During the government of president Juscelino Kubitschek, Caixa Econômica Federal granted a loan to honor the financial obligations of the institution and secured the loan with its art collections. Years later, in the 1970s, the debt with the Brazilian government was negotiated and paid off.\n\nIn 1969, in response to a request by the museum, the Brazilian Institute for Historic and Artistic Heritage (IPHAN) registered MASP's holdings as part of the national heritage. Then, the collection became inalienable. It is part of Brazilian public patrimony, and any movement of works of the collection to outside of the country needs the authorization by IPHAN.\n\nNotwithstanding the financial problems of the institution, São Paulo Museum of Art undergoes an even greater growing of its international recognizing. In the 1970s the museum gathered notoriety in the Eastern Hemisphere by organizing many exhibitions using selected works of its collection at Japanese museums. In 1973, the collection was presented at the Ministry of Foreign Relations in Brasília. MASP's collection was presented again in Japan in 1978/79, 1982/83, 1990/91, and 1995. In 1992, works of the French school and Brazilian landscapes were exhibited in the Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes, in Santiago, Chile, and in the Biblioteca Luís Angel Aragón, in Bogotá.\n\nIn 2011, MASP received an important donation of Asian Art and artcrafts from Ambassador Godoy to India, which is said to have placed MASP under the same category of the Metropolitan Museum of Art of New York, which houses items of anthropological interest as well as fine arts. Before that, MASP already figured amongst the 19 finest institutions of art in the world, which include D'Orsay in Paris and the Met itself. A new wing to harbor the collection will be dedicated in 2012, when MASP's restaurant and offices will be transferred to a building under restoration to its left.\n\nThe present building of the museum was constructed by the São Paulo City Hall and inaugurated in 1968, with the presence of Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom. It is famous for its remarkable brutalist structure and it is considered one of the landmarks of the Brazilian modern architecture. The building should be raised in the formerly site of Belvedere Trianon, on Paulista Avenue from where it would be possible to watch the downtown area and the Cantareira Mountains. José Borges de Figueiredo, the investor who sold the plot of ground to the City Hall, wrote a non-binding letter to the administration, asking that it be preserved as a \"public place in perpetuity\". While in the following years multiple proposed projects ignored his wish, the idea of an underground construction or, otherwise, a sustained one was chosen by the architect Lina Bo Bardi and engineer José Carlos Figueiredo Ferraz nevertheless. They conceived an underground block as well as a sustained structure, which would stand eight meters above the floor, with the use of four pillars connected by two huge concrete beams. Underneath those beams there lay what was considered a boldness, meaning a free space of between the pillars and underneath the beams; the largest in the world at that time. The building inaugurated the so-called protented technique reinforced concrete in Brazil.\n\nIn the construction of approximately there are – besides the permanent and temporary exhibition rooms – library, photo gallery, film gallery, video gallery, two auditoriums, restaurant, a store, workshop rooms, administrative offices and a technical reserved area. The building's installations and finishing are homely, as Lina Bo herself describes: \"Concrete in sight, whitewash, flagstone flooring covering the great Civic Hall, tempered glass, plastic walls. Industrial black rubber flooring covering inner spaces. The belvedere is a 'square', with plants and flowers around, paved with parallelepipeds, according to Iberian-Brazilian tradition. There are also water spaces, small water mirrors with aquatic plants. […] I didn't search for beauty. I've searched for freedom\". In 2003, the building was also registered as national patrimony by Brazilian Institute for Historic and Artistic Heritage.\n\nIn the museographic area, Lina Bo Bardi also innovated by using tempered crystal sheets leaned on concrete blocks bases as display supports for the paintings. The intention is to imitate the position of the canvas on the painter's easel. In the reverse of these supports, which are not used anymore, there were planks with information about the painter and the work. Paradoxically, the museum abandoned this model of exhibition at the same time when, at the end of the 1990s, it starts to be noticed and implemented by foreign institutions.\n\nBetween 1996 and 2001, the current administration of the museum undertook a vast and controversial reform. Notwithstanding the indispensable restoration of the general structure, the architect and former director of the institution Julio Neves determined the substitution of the original floor conceived by Lina Bo, the installation of a second elevator, the construction of a third underground floor, and the substitution of the water mirrors for gardens. Many architects allege that the reform caused a profound discharacterization of Lina's original project.\n\nThe main body of the collection was gathered between 1947 and 1960. Pietro Maria Bardi, formerly owner of commercial galleries in Milan and Rome, was in charge of searching and selecting the works which should be acquired, while Chateaubriand had to look for donors and patrons who shared his dream of endowing the country with a museum of international standard. Although many spontaneous donations had been registered, Chateaubriand gained reputation for using bold methods of persuasion. Endorsed by the influence of his Diários Associados Press, he negotiated with announcers his gathering of funds. After that, he rewarded the donors with the title of patrons, celebrating each new acquisition with banquets, speeches and even student parades in the streets of São Paulo, as happened at the arrival of Van Gogh's \"The Student.\"\n\nThe international art market was passing through a propitious moment for those who had funds to acquire high-quality works of art – there were many of them available in view of the end of the war, and Brazil enjoyed prosperity, having ceased to depend heavily on international production, as it was forced to develop its own industry during the war. The works of art were generally acquired in traditional and esteemed fine art auction houses, such as Christie's, Marlborough, Sotheby's, Knoedler, Seligman and Wildenstein.\n\nThe bold methods used by Chateaubriand to finance the formation of the collection produced many critics. Along with these, there were others related to the fact that the museum acquired works of art without the proper corroboration of authenticity. This impression was endorsed by the fact that the museum was at the time one of the major buyers in the international market. Unlike other institutions, whose acquisitions depended on approval of a curators council, the São Paulo Museum of Art usually acquired its pieces quickly, sometimes by telegram. Thanks to this agility the museum was able to gather important masterpieces, even when facing private collectors or institutions of major renown and bigger financial resources.\nAt the end of the 1960s, Chateaubriand's press conglomerate was facing troubles, with growing debts and Roberto Marinho's media companies competition. The financial difficulties of Diários Associados caused the downfall of the museum's financial resources. Thus, after 13 years of great acquisitions, the museum increased its collection only by spontaneous donations of artists, companies and private collectors.\n\nThe São Paulo Museum of Art collection is considered the largest and more comprehensive collection of Western art in Latin America and all Southern Hemisphere. Among the 8,000 works of the museum, the collection of European paintings, sculptures, drawings, engravings, and decorative arts stands out. The French and Italian schools are more broadly represented, forming the main body of the collection, followed by Spanish, Portuguese, Flemish, Dutch, English and German masters. The museum also keeps a significant collection of Brazilian art and \"Brasiliana\", which witnesses the development of Brazilian art from 17th century to nowadays. Still in the context of Western art, the museum possesses important holdings of Latin and North American art. In a smaller scale, the museum's holdings contemplate representative objects of many periods and distinct non-Western civilizations – such as African and Asian arts – and others which stand out for their archaeological, historic and artistic relevance, like the select collections of Egyptian, Etruscan, Greek and Roman antiquities, besides other artifacts of Pre-Columbian cultures and medieval European art.\n\n\"Italian school\"\n\n\"Brazil and the Americas\"\n\n\"French school\"\n\n\"Spanish school\"\n\n\"Dutch, Flemish and German schools\"\n\n\"English school\"\n\nPlease note that this list is not complete.\n\nThe museum also has some small collections of photographs, costumes and textiles, kitsch objects, etc.\n\nOn December 20, 2007, around 5:09 a.m., three men invaded the museum and took two paintings, considered to be among the most valuable of the museum: \"O Lavrador de Café\" (\"The Coffee Farmer\"), by Cândido Portinari, and the \"Portrait of Suzanne Bloch\" by Pablo Picasso. The whole action took about three minutes. Art experts estimated value of the paintings at about 55 or 56 million dollars. The paintings were recovered by the Brazilian police on January 8, 2008, in the city of Ferraz de Vasconcelos, in the Greater São Paulo.\n\n"}
{"id": "27779458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27779458", "title": "Table of authorities", "text": "Table of authorities\n\nA table of authorities is part of a legal brief that contains a list of the cases, statutes, and secondary sources cited in the brief. The table of authorities has the page number or numbers on which each authority appears.\n"}
{"id": "5175527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5175527", "title": "Tennessee Blue Book", "text": "Tennessee Blue Book\n\nThe Tennessee Blue Book is an official government manual for the U.S. state of Tennessee, published by the Secretary of State of Tennessee.\n\nThe \"Blue Book\" is typically published on a biennial basis. Its contents include details on the organization of the government of Tennessee, maps of Congressional districts, state Senate districts, state House districts, and listings of other facts, such as which counties are joined together in judicial districts, and the composition of certain governmental boards and how their members are appointed.\n\nAdditionally, thumbnail biographies of most senior state officials and all past governors are included, as well as a brief history of the state, and the text of the Tennessee State Constitution and the United States Constitution. The \"Blue Book\" is a fairly reliable source of information about Tennessee governmental officials.\n\n"}
{"id": "10679967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10679967", "title": "Test case (law)", "text": "Test case (law)\n\nIn case law, a test case is a legal action whose purpose is to set a precedent. Test cases are brought to court as a means to provide a clearer definition to laws with disputed meaning and/or intent. An example of a test case might be a legal entity who files a lawsuit to see if the court considers a certain law or a certain legal precedent applicable in specific circumstances. This is useful, for example, to validate later filing similar lawsuits.\n\nGovernment agencies sometimes bring test cases to confirm or expand their powers.\n\nExamples of influential test cases include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9157978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9157978", "title": "The Aurum Film Encyclopedia", "text": "The Aurum Film Encyclopedia\n\nThe Aurum Film Encyclopedia is a multi-volume reference work on cinema, published in the UK by Aurum Press and edited by Phil Hardy. The first volume, devoted to western films, appeared in 1983, with eight subsequent volumes announced at that time as \"forthcoming\". However, only three additional entries were issued. All four volumes have been published in the U.S. by The Overlook Press, with the same contents as the UK editions but with the title changed to The Overlook Film Encyclopedia.\n\nThe Foreword to all four volumes is the same, describing the proposed nine-volume encyclopedia as \"covering the principal film categories or genres which have developed since the birth of the industry.\" The intent was to produce a \"complete and authoritative\" body of information that, upon completion, would be seen as \"a truly comprehensive and enduring reference guide to the fabulous world of film.\"\n\nEach book provides a decade by decade overview of that volume's respective genre. Capsule reviews of individual films are provided per year of release. Each year's films are listed alphabetically, and feature brief cast and credit details.\n\nTim Lucas described the first three volumes as \"essential reference tools\" and \"eminently collectable as a set.\"\n\nPublished in 1983, \"The Aurum Film Encyclopedia: The Western\" is a chronological history of the genre from 1930 - 1983. The book is credited solely to Phil Hardy, and all reviews are ostensibly his work alone. All subsequent volumes credit Hardy as editor, and provide a list of the contributing reviewers on the main title page. Hardy made the decision not to include any silent films in this first volume because, as he explained in his Preface, \"space is at a premium\" and \"only a few silent Westerns are available for viewing.\" In addition, hundreds of “minor” sound westerns were not included in the main text, again because of noted space issues; the titles of all excluded sound films are provided in a massive, 20-page appendix entitled \"All Other Sound Westerns\". Many serials and Italian westerns are relegated to this appendix. No such listing is provided for the missing silent films. Other appendices include a list of the top box office western hits, top ten lists from critics, and all Academy Award-winning westerns. Sixteen pages of color stills are provided in a center insert.\n\nA second edition of the book was published in 1991, with its chronology expanded through 1990 and a different set of appendices. Ten pages were added to the new edition, covering the few films produced during the years 1984 - 1990. This edition was reprinted in 1995.\n\nPublished in 1984, \"The Aurum Film Encyclopedia: Science Fiction\", followed the history of the genre chronologically, from 1897 – 1983. Unlike the previous volume, silent genre titles are included, and even minor genre films are reviewed in the main text. Also unlike the first volume, Hardy mentions the names of the various critics who provided the reviews in the text, which in this book were Denis Gifford, Anthony Masters, Paul Taylor, and Paul Willemen. However, none of the film reviews are signed, so it is not possible to determine what material each writer contributed to the book. Like the first, this volume includes supplemental material including all-time box-office hits, critics’ top ten lists and all science fiction films that have won Academy Awards. The book includes sixteen pages of color stills in a center insert.\n\nTim Lucas wrote of the first edition that \"no self-respecting film library should be without it\", and further noted that it was \"particularly recommended for its coverage of the early silent trick films - perhaps the most complete document of its kind ever published.\"\n\nAn expanded second edition was published in 1995, with new entries on all films that had received a theatrical release through 1994. Longer by 62 pages than the original version, the edition dropped most of the appendices due to space issues. \n\nPublished in 1984, \"The Aurum Film Encyclopedia: Horror\", provides a chronological history of the horror film since its inception in 1896 through 1983. Like the science fiction volume, all known theatrically released films, including those from the silent era, have entries. More than either of the two previous books, the horror volume is international in scope, providing coverage of all films from all countries that have ever produced a horror-related title. The contributors to this volume were Tom Milne, Paul Willemen, Julian Petley, and Tim Pulleine. The writers' specific contributions are not possible to determine, as none of the film reviews are signed. Sixteen pages of color stills are featured in a center insert.\n\nTim Lucas has acclaimed the first edition as \"the greatest and most influential of all books on the subject\". In a later review, he described the book as \"an intoxicating road map to further study and the enthusiasms of its authors(...)planted the seeds for the rediscovery and reappraisal of such \"cinéastes\" as Jesús Franco, José Mojica Marins, Pupi Avati, and Jean Rollin...Hardy's hefty tome redefined how horror cinema was perceived by its admirers more so than any other single work...\"\n\nAn expanded second edition was published in 1993, with new entries on all films released through 1992. This edition is approximately 90 pages longer than the first, with three of the appendices dropped for space reasons. As noted by Hardy in his Preface to the updated edition, Kim Newman wrote nearly all of the book’s new material. This second edition was reprinted in 1995. Tim Lucas felt the second edition would probably disappoint many readers as it was not \"as rich in international selection this time around\", concentrating mainly on films produced in the United States and United Kingdom.\n\nPublished in 1998, \"The Aurum Film Encyclopedia: The Gangster Film\" follows the same basic format of the previous books, offering a chronological, decade-by-decade history of the genre. Hardy starts his history in 1928, noting in his introductory material that the genre did not exist prior to that. All films released through 1997 have capsule review entries. The contributors were Jeremy Clarke, Richard Coombs, David McGillivray, Tom Milne, Kim Newman, Tim Pulleine, and Paul Willemen. As with previous volumes, the film reviews are unsigned, and so details regarding what material each writer contributed to the book has not been made available to the reader. Two appendices are included, listings of the top grossing gangster films through 1998 and all Academy Award winning and nominated films in the genre. Unlike the other three books in the series, this entry does not have a center color stills insert. The book has not been updated or reprinted.\nIn his introduction to \"The Gangster Film\", Hardy noted that work on a crime-themed “companion work” to that volume was in preparation. This book was to be devoted to private eyes, femmes fatales, murderers, and serial killers. To date, no such volume has been published.\n\nThe first book in the series, \"The Western\", had laid out the complete plans for all future volumes. In addition to the published Western, Science Fiction, and Horror volumes, the remaining six “forthcoming” books were to be: Comedy, Romance, War, Epics, Musicals, and Thrillers.\n"}
{"id": "49622647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49622647", "title": "The Bob Dylan Archive", "text": "The Bob Dylan Archive\n\nThe Bob Dylan Archive is a collection of documents and objects relating to American singer Bob Dylan. It was announced on March 2, 2016 that the archive had been acquired by the George Kaiser Family Foundation (GKFF) and the University of Tulsa (TU). It will be under the care of the University's Helmerich Center for American Research. \n\nThe archive consists of more than 6,000 items, including notebooks, contracts, unreleased concert films and the leather jacket Dylan wore at the 1965 Newport Folk Festival. Most of the material has never before been seen by members of the public; it will now be made available for research and will form the basis of public exhibitions. The Woody Guthrie Centre Archives were purchased earlier by the GKFF and are already housed in Tulsa.\n\nDylan is quoted as saying \"\"I'm glad that my archives, which have been collected all these years, have finally found a home and are to be included with the works of Woody Guthrie and especially alongside all the valuable artifacts from the Native American Nations. To me it makes a lot of sense and it's a great honor.\"\n\nAs of March 16, 2016, nearly 1,000 items from the Archive had been brought to the Hardesty Archival Center inside the Helmerich Center, to be preserved and digitally recorded. The remainder of the archive will be brought to Tulsa from various locations over the next two years.\n"}
{"id": "1322148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1322148", "title": "Thomson Directories", "text": "Thomson Directories\n\nThomson Directories, more commonly referred to as Thomson Local, is a local business directory company based in Farnborough, Hampshire, England, and offers business listings both in print and online following the launch of ThomsonLocal.com in 2003.\n\n174 regional editions of the Thomson Local are produced and delivered free of charge to residential and commercial addresses throughout the UK.\nThe Chief Executive Officer is currently Elio Shiavo. \n\nThe company was purchased by US West, a telecommunications company in the United States, in 1994. In 1999, the company was sold by 3i to TDL Infomedia, a subsidiary of Apax Partners.\n\nThe company was placed in Administration (law) in August 2013, and acquired by Corporate Media Partners.\n\nAs of 2017 Thomson Local operates from their new head office in the Templer building of Farnborough Business Park overlooking Farnborough Airport. \n\n"}
{"id": "36598539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36598539", "title": "Unilateral declaration of independence", "text": "Unilateral declaration of independence\n\nA unilateral declaration of independence (UDI) is a formal process leading to the establishment of a new state by a subnational entity which declares itself independent and sovereign without a formal agreement with the national state from which it is seceding. The term was first used when Rhodesia declared independence in 1965 from the United Kingdom (UK) without an agreement with the UK.\n\nProminent examples of a unilateral declaration of independence other than Rhodesia's UDI in 1965 include that of the United States in 1776, the Irish Declaration of Independence of 1919 by a revolutionary parliament, Katanga's declaration of independence by Moise Tshombe in July 1960, the attempted secession of Biafra from Nigeria in 1967, the Bangladeshi declaration of independence from Pakistan in 1970, the (internationally unrecognized) secession of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus from Cyprus in 1983, the Palestinian Declaration of Independence from the Palestinian territories in 1988, and that of the Republic of Kosovo in 2008. During the break up of the Soviet Union throughout 1991, many of its republics declared their independence unilaterally without agreement and were thus not recognised as legitimate by the Soviet central government.\n\nDuring the breakup of Yugoslavia, the government of the United States asked the governments of Slovenia and Croatia to drop their UDI plans because of the threat of major war erupting in the Balkans because of it, and threatened that it would oppose both countries' UDIs on the basis of the Helsinki Final Act if they did so. However, four days later both Slovenia and Croatia announced their UDIs from Yugoslavia.\n\nThe International Court of Justice, in a 2010 advisory opinion, declared that unilateral declarations of independence were not illegal under international law.\n\n"}
{"id": "229765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229765", "title": "Vatican Museums", "text": "Vatican Museums\n\nThe Vatican Museums (; ) are Christian and art museums located within the city boundaries of the Vatican City. They display works from the immense collection amassed by popes throughout the centuries including several of the most renowned Roman sculptures and most important masterpieces of Renaissance art in the world. The museums contain roughly 70,000 works, of which 20,000 are on display, and currently employ 640 people who work in 40 different administrative, scholarly, and restoration departments.\n\nPope Julius II founded the museums in the early 16th century. The Sistine Chapel, with its ceiling decorated by Michelangelo and the Stanze di Raffaello decorated by Raphael, are on the visitor route through the Vatican Museums. In 2017, they were visited by 6 million people, which combined makes it the 5th most visited art museum in the world.\n\nThere are 54 galleries, or \"sale\", in total, with the Sistine Chapel, notably, being the very last sala within the Museum. It is one of the largest museums in the world.\n\nIn 2017, the Museum's official website and social media presence was completely redone, in accord with current standards and appearances for modern websites.\n\nThe Vatican Museums trace their origin to one marble sculpture, purchased in the 16th century: \"Laocoön and His Sons\" was discovered on 14 January 1506, in a vineyard near the basilica of Santa Maria Maggiore in Rome. Pope Julius II sent Giuliano da Sangallo and Michelangelo Buonarroti, who were working at the Vatican, to examine the discovery. On their recommendation, the pope immediately purchased the sculpture from the vineyard owner. The pope put the sculpture, which depicts the Trojan priest Laocoön and his two sons being attacked by giant serpents, on public display at the Vatican exactly one month after its discovery.\n\nBenedict XIV founded the \"Museum Christianum\", and some of the Vatican collections formed the Lateran Museum, which Pius IX founded by decree in 1854.\n\nThe Museums celebrated their 500th anniversary in October 2006 by permanently opening the excavations of a Vatican Hill necropolis to the public.\n\nOn 1 January 2017, Barbara Jatta became the Director of the Vatican Museums, replacing Antonio Paolucci who had been director since 2007.\n\nThe art gallery was housed in the Borgia Apartment until Pope Pius XI ordered construction of a proper building. The new building, designed by Luca Beltrami, was inaugurated on 27 October 1932. The museum has paintings including:\n\n\nThe Collection of Modern Religious Art was added in 1973 and houses paintings and sculptures from artists like Carlo Carrà, Giorgio de Chirico, Vincent van Gogh, Paul Gauguin, Marc Chagall, Paul Klee, Salvador Dalí, and Pablo Picasso.\n\nThe group of museums includes several sculpture museums surrounding the Cortile del Belvedere. These are the Gregoriano Profano Museum, with classical sculpture, and others as below:\n\nThe museum takes its name from two popes; Clement XIV, who established the museum, and Pius VI, the pope who brought the museum to completion. Clement XIV came up with the idea of creating a new museum in Innocent VIII's Belvedere Palace and started the refurbishment work.\n\nPope Clement XIV founded the Pio-Clementino museum in 1771, and originally it contained the Renaissance and antique works. The museum and collection were enlarged by Clement's successor Pius VI. Today, the museum houses works of Greek and Roman sculpture. Some notable galleries are:\n\nThis museum was founded in the early 19th century by Pope Pius VII, whose surname before his election as pope was Chiaramonti. The museum consists of a large arched gallery in which are exhibited several statues, sarcophagi and friezes. The New Wing, Braccio Nuovo, built by Raffaele Stern, houses statues including the Augustus of Prima Porta, the \"Doryphoros\", and \"The River Nile\". The Galeria Lapidaria forms part of the Museo Chiaramonti, and contains over 3,000 stone tablets and inscriptions. It is accessible only with special permission, usually for the purpose of academic study.\n\nFounded by Pope Gregory XVI in 1836, this museum has eight galleries and houses important Etruscan pieces, coming from archaeological excavations. The pieces include: vases, sarcophagus, bronzes and the \"Guglielmi Collection\".\n\nThis museum houses a large collection of artifacts from Ancient Egypt. Such material includes papyruses, the \"Grassi Collection\", animal mummies, and reproductions of the \"Book of the Dead\".\n\nThe Museo Gregoriano Egiziano was inaugurated on 2 February 1839 to commemorate the anniversary of Gregory XVI's accession to the papacy. The creation of the Museo Gregoriano Egiziano was particularly close to the pope's heart as he believed the understanding of ancient Egyptian civilisation was vital in terms of its scientific importance as well as its value in understanding the Old Testament. This feeling was expressed in a paper by the museum's first curator, the physiologist and Barnabite, Father Luigi Maria Ungarelli.\n\nThe Vatican Historical Museum () was founded in 1973 at the behest of Pope Paul VI, and was initially hosted in environments under the Square Garden. In 1987, it moved to the main floor of the Apostolic Palace of the Lateran where it opened in March 1991.\n\nThe Vatican Historical Museum has a unique collection of portraits of the Popes from the 16th century to date, the memorable items of the Papal Military Corps of the 16–17th centuries and old religious paraphernalia related to rituals of the papacy. Also on display on the lower floor are the \"papamobili\" (Popemobiles); carriages and motorcars of Popes and Cardinals, including the first cars used by Popes.\n\n\n\nThe Museums had 6,427,277 visitors in 2017, making them the fourth-most-visited art museum in the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25347848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25347848", "title": "Vernacular Music Research", "text": "Vernacular Music Research\n\nVernacular Music Research is an archival and historical collection of music. It includes print (books, sheet music, orchestrations), 78' records, and other media featuring American music and dance from the early 19th century to the 1960s.\nIt was founded by jazz historian Thornton Hagert. Jazz.com lists his name as \"Tony Hagert\" for albums \"Come & Trip it\" & \"Too Much Mustard\" with trombonist Dave Sager.\n\nThe Archive itself consists of about 125,000 items of printed\nmusic, 75,000 items of recorded music, 5,500 books and\n2,000 periodicals on New World Vernacular music, dance, and\nrelated topics.\n\nResearch and historical writing has been compiled for has been prepared for The Smithsonian's \"An Experiment in Modern Music: Paul Whiteman at Aeolian Hall. Smithsonian Collection recording DMM 2-0518\", and the Maryland Historical Society,\n\nThe archive has provided sheet music, recorded music, and referenced source material for books and publications including:\n\n\"\" author Bill Matthiesen made special note of the use of Thornton Hagert's research, sheet music and orchestration.\n\nRagged but Right by Lynn Abbott features sheet music from the Archive. Printed by University of Mississippi \n\nCome & Trip It \"Instrumental Dance Music, 1780s-1920s\" Released on New World Records \nThe Release is even currently for sale on Amazon, with reviews included- Come & Trip It \n\nIt also received a special thanks from the author of \"Black Manhattan\", conductor Rick Benjamin. Maintained by Recorded Anthology of American Music, Inc.\n\nWas a contributor to the Eubie Blake Collection with the Maryland Historical Society. They maintain correspondence between Hagert & Eubie Blake.\n\n\"\" by John Edward Hasse and published on\nSchirmer Books, 1985 also references the archive.\n\nRecord Research features research and writing in partnership with Jean C Averty on numerous articles throughout the 70s and 80s.\nProvided Samples of Music for book The Devil's Horn (The Devil's Horn: The Story of the Saxophone, From Noisy Novelty to King of Cool. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. ) \n\nParticipated in the book Pioneers of Jazz: The Story of the Creole Band by Lawrence Gushee Page 552 \n\nProvided sheet music cover of \"Oh you Devil! Rag\" for a University of Mississippi book Ragged but Right \n"}
{"id": "28267397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28267397", "title": "William Morfill", "text": "William Morfill\n\nWilliam Richard Morfill FBA (17 November 1834 – 9 November 1909) was Professor of Russian and the other Slavonic languages at the University of Oxford from 1900 until his death. He was the first professor of Russian in Britain, and his house in North Oxford was marked with a commemorative blue plaque by the Oxfordshire Blue Plaques Board in 2009.\n\nWilliam Richard Morfill, the second child and first son of a professional musician called William Morfill from Maidstone, Kent, was born on 17 November 1834. After studying at Maidstone Grammar School and Tonbridge School, he matriculated at the University of Oxford as a member of Corpus Christi College, on 28 May 1853. He moved to Oriel College with a scholarship in classics later in 1853. He obtained his BA degree in 1857, although this was only a pass degree as he had fallen seriously ill during the examinations. He remained in Oxford after graduation, giving private tuition. His Oxford MA was awarded in 1860, the same year in which he married Charlotte Lee and in which his first published translations from Russian appeared.\n\nBetween 1865 and 1869, he lectured in philosophy and modern history at one of the private halls attached to the university, Charsley's Hall.\n\nMorfill had had an interest in foreign languages since school days, encouraged by a Tonbridge teacher who gave him a Russian grammar. He first visited Russia in 1870 and Prague in 1871, learning languages as he travelled; a visit to Georgia in 1888 led to an article on Georgian literature. His interest in Slavonic languages was rewarded with his appointment in 1870 by Oxford to provide the first lectures of the Ilchester Foundation, endowed to encourage studies in this area. He gave further lectures in this series in 1873 and 1883, leading to his 1883 publication \"Dawn of European Literature: Slavonic Literature\". By this stage, his wife had died (in 1881; there were no children) and he took comfort in his work. He was appointed Reader in Russian and the other Slavonic languages in 1889 and Professor in 1900. Russian was not a degree subject at Oxford until 1904: it has been said that Oxford's \"approval of the languages he had cultivated while they lay outside the curriculum is Morfill's most enduring achievement.\"\n\nHe was the first professor of Russian in Britain. He also became Curator of the Taylor Institution and was appointed a Fellow of the British Academy in 1903. He was awarded an honorary doctorate by Charles University, Prague in 1908. His publications included \"Slavonic Literature\" (1883), \"A history of Russia from the birth of Peter the Great to the death of Alexander II\" (1902) and various books on grammar in Polish, Serbian, Bulgarian and Russian, as well as translations. He died on 9 November 1909 and was buried in the same grave as his wife.\n\nIn 2009, the Oxfordshire Blue Plaques Board marked 42 Park Town, where Morfill lived from 1863 to 1899, with a plaque to commemorate him. The Board's secretary said that the house had been like a \"cultural embassy\", where people came to learn languages, and that Morfill had been chosen for being a \"great pioneer\" who had spent his life establishing Russian and Slavonic languages in Oxford.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33852835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33852835", "title": "Winster Guisers", "text": "Winster Guisers\n\nThe Winster Guisers are a group who perform a traditional mummers play in and around the village of Winster, Derbyshire, UK, during the Christmas season. Their performance is based on a photograph taken c. 1870 outside Winster Hall showing an unidentified set of performers about whom little is known for certain. The Winster Guisers' play is not local to the area, but is a revival (dating from 1980) of a Cheshire play, chosen because it features a hobby horse similar to the one in the centre of the old photograph. A \"guiser\" (sometimes spelled \"guizer\") is someone in disguise, though in the Winster area the term was widely used for the teams of Christmas mummers.\n\nIn the mid 19th century, guisers (mummers) were evidently common in Derbyshire in the week between Christmas and New Year, as can be seen from the notes below, which record around a dozen visits to Winster Hall in the four days 26–30 December 1867.\n\nThe village of Winster also has a long-established morris dance tradition. Although the first documentary evidence of morris dancing in Winster dates only from 1863, it seems to have been well established by then. The famous pioneering folklorist Cecil Sharp visited the village in 1908 and noted five dances, including The Processional and The Gallop. All the dancers are men or boys, dressed in white; a full team numbers 16. There are four other characters, also men: the King and Queen, who preside over the dancing, and the Jester (formerly known as the Fool) and the Witch, who entertain the crowd, as Cecil Sharp described: \"The dancers danced in procession … through the streets of Winster, stopping at certain places to perform one or two of their stationary dances. The King headed the procession, marching in step with the music … the Queen and the musician walked by the side of the dancers; the Fool and the Witch ran about clearing the way.\"\n\nThe photograph (right) taken at Winster Hall, Derbyshire, in about 1870 (probably by or for Llewellynn Jewitt (1816–1886), who lived at the house between 1868 and 1880) shows a possibly unique midwinter custom involving three hobby horses. (The picture appears to have been taken in winter, as the climbing plants on the wall are leafless.) Eight or nine performers are involved; all (bar one?) have facial disguise. It has been claimed to be the oldest known photograph of a group of mummers or guisers.\n\nTwo men wearing military-looking jackets, buttoned to the neck, and white trousers stand astride small hobby horses of an apparently unique design: a cylindrical body, \"about three inches diameter and two feet long\", held between the rider's legs (supported at the front by a cord or narrow strap around the rider's neck), with a flat, curved wooden neck and a small, stylised head with snapping jaws (apart from their mouths, the horses look almost like simple rocking horses with the legs removed). The horsemen are faceless: their heads are wrapped in light-coloured cloth.\n\nThe performers are grouped around a \"mast horse\" with a shiny black head made from a skull (with ears attached and a large eyeball in its white-painted eye socket) set on a short pole. It is operated by a person who crouches under a blanket, attached to the back of the skull, that hides most of the pole. Behind this horse are two men who seem to be threatening it, one with a long stick like the handle of a brush or rake, the other with a besom broom (blurred). The one with the stick wears white trousers, a dark jacket and a top hat; his face is disguised, perhaps by a mask or possibly wrapped in cloth. The other has a dark jacket and a flat-topped, ornate hat that looks like a smoking cap; he may be wearing a mask or perhaps a painted-on beard; his legs cannot be seen.\n\nNext to them stands a rather matronly woman in a long apron; she has no facial disguise and is possibly a member of the household staff rather than a performer; another smartly dressed person, also possibly a servant is looking out of the house through a window in the door.\n\nAnother character wears a rather voluminous, tattered, long, dark dress with pale sleeves (or a pale blouse under it) and a top hat. Busily brushing the ground with a besom broom, \"she\" is reminiscent of the character Besom Bet who appears in some mummers plays or the Winster morris Witch.\n\nThe last two characters, on the outer edges of the group, are playing rough music on bladder fiddles. One has his face disguised with a simple (cloth?) mask and wears a peaked cap. He wears white trousers, and possibly a dark, sleeveless jerkin over a paler, long-sleeved garment. The other \"musician\" is more smartly dressed, in top hat, a long riding jacket, breeches, tight, knee-length socks or gaiters and polished shoes. He has what appears to be a false beard and bushy eyebrows.\n\nThe performance may have been arranged by Llewellynn Jewitt, who lived at the hall between 1868 and 1880. In 1931, Stanley Evans (\"Folk Dancing in Derbyshire\", \"Derbyshire Countryside\", vol 1, no 2, April 1931, p29) suggested the performers may have been performing a mumming play. Cawte dismissed this suggestion: \"if so it is a most unusual one, there is no sign of the combatants, the pair of horses is of an unusual design, and the mast horse seems to be the centre of attention.\" But, despite the absence of weapons, it is not difficult to envisage the two military-looking characters on hobby-horses as possible combatants, or even the two characters behind who are waving a pole and a broomstick. Moreover, the \"Wild Horse\" is a central character in the Soul-caking plays of nearby Cheshire (see photo).\n\nIn his field notes, made in 1908, folklorist Cecil Sharp referred to a hobby horse \"without a curtain\" being connected with the morris dance at Winster; he also mentions a \"Snap Dragon\" made from \"a real horse's head\" (presumably a skull) dug up for the purpose, but does not say whether it was associated with the morris. It seems he did not see them himself, and his account published in 1924, long after his visit to Winster, is confusing. In 1966, Winster morris dancers stated that there had never been a hobby horse associated with their morris, but that there had been a separate horse ceremony involving a skull that was reburied each year. It seems possible that Sharp's \"Snap Dragon\" and the horse ceremony recalled by the morris men are the same custom that is shown in the Winster Hall photograph.\n\nIn 1867 Jewitt recorded several visits to Winster Hall by groups of traditional performers (some being children, others men): 'guisers', 'mummers', the 'hobby horse' and 'Snap Dragon'. Jewitt differentiates between 'Snap Dragon' and 'Hobby Horse(s)' but does not describe how they were made, or how they differed, but implies that they did not always go out together. If Sharp is correct and Snap Dragon was made from a horse's skull, the photograph may show one such \"conjoined\" team of guisers. Jewitt also seems to have seen several different hobby horses and two different Snap Dragons (the Winster one and another) during these four days, as it is unlikely he would have paid the same team twice in two days.\n"}
{"id": "21157258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21157258", "title": "‡biblios.net", "text": "‡biblios.net\n\n‡biblios.net is a free browser-based cataloging service with a data store containing over thirty-million records. Records are licensed under the Open Data Commons Public Domain Dedication and License, making the service the world's largest repository of freely-licensed library records. The service was created and is maintained by LibLime.\n\n‡biblios.net (pronounced 'biblios dot net') features a metadata editor with templates, macros, authority auto-completion and embedded context-sensitive help. The central record repository contains 25-million bibliographic records and just under eight-million authority records. The data is maintained by ‡biblios.net users. Catalogers can use and contribute to the database without restrictions because records in ‡biblios.net are freely-licensed under the Open Data Commons Public Domain Dedication and License.\n\n‡biblios.net also includes a built-in federated search system allowing catalogers to find records from any Z39.50 target. Additionally, there is a central Search Target Registry, seeded with over 2,000 Z39.50 servers, for catalogers to find, create and share Z39.50 targets.\n\nIn addition to offering a traditional cataloging interface, ‡biblios.net offers social cataloging features. Built-in forums and private messaging make finding help and communicating with others possible within the software.\n\n\n"}
