{"id": "56694299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56694299", "title": "Alexander Hastie (Lord Provost)", "text": "Alexander Hastie (Lord Provost)\n\nAlexander Hastie MP (1805–1864) was a late 19th century Scottish Whig politician who served as Lord Provost of Glasgow from 1846 to 1848. He was MP for Glasgow from 1847 to 1848 and from 1852 to 1857. He was one of the few people to simultaneously have been Lord Provost and MP for the same city.\n\nHe was noted as an anti-slavery activist.\n\nHe was born on 24 April 1805 in Fife, the son of Robert Hastie (1774-1827). The family moved to Glasgow around 1815. His father was President of the Glasgow Philosophical Society.\n\nFrom 1822 to 1827 he lived and worked in Canada.\n\nHe worked for the family firm of R. Hastie & Co, based first at Somerville Place and later at 13 John Street in Glasgow. The company traded with America and the East Indies.\n\nIn 1837 he joined Glasgow town council as a councillor. At the time of his being Lord Provost in 1846 he lived at 212 Bath Street in the Glasgow city centre. \n\nIn 1863 he purchased Luscar House, near Dunfermline in Fife.\n\nHe had an attack of cerebral palsy at home in Bath Street in January 1864. He died on 13 August 1864 at Luscar House.\n\nIn 1852 he married Ann Napier daughter of Robert Napier of West Sherndon. They had two daughters, Isabella Napier Hastie and Jane Alexia Hastie.\n\nIn 1873 Isabella (\"Ella\") (1854-1919) married Thomas Charles Perceval Lefroy and became Isabella Napier Lefroy. She was an author under the name of E. N. Leigh Fry.\n"}
{"id": "12715119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12715119", "title": "Amadeus CRS", "text": "Amadeus CRS\n\nAmadeus is a computer reservation system (or global distribution system, since it sells tickets for multiple airlines) owned by the Amadeus IT Group with headquarters in Madrid, Spain. The central database is located at Erding, Germany. The major development centers are located in Sophia Antipolis (France), Bangalore (India), London (UK), and Boston (United States). In addition to airlines, the CRS is also used to book train travel, cruises, car rental, ferry reservations, and hotel rooms. Amadeus also provides New Generation departure control systems to airlines. Amadeus IT Group is a transaction processor for the global travel and tourism industry. The company is structured around two key related areas—its global distribution system and its IT Solutions business area.\n\nAmadeus is a member of IATA, OTA and SITA. Its IATA airline designator code is 1A.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11072796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11072796", "title": "Ames Gate Lodge", "text": "Ames Gate Lodge\n\nThe Ames Gate Lodge is a celebrated work by American architect H. H. Richardson. It is privately owned on an estate landscaped by Frederick Law Olmsted, but its north facade can be seen from the road at 135 Elm Street, North Easton, Massachusetts. In 2013, the Ames Gate Lodge was protected by a preservation easement held by Historic New England.\n\nThe lodge was designed and constructed in 1880-1881 for Frederick Lothrop Ames, son of railway magnate Oliver Ames, Jr., as the northern entrance to his Langwater estate. Although Langwater dated from 1859 with 1876 additions, its northern regions had until then remained unfinished. Ames thus engaged Richardson and Olmsted in collaboration on its creation. Olmsted's landscape designs were implemented in 1886-1887.\n\nThe Gate Lodge is a remarkable synthesis of oversize stone wall, arched gate, and gatehouse building, perhaps based in part on Richardson's appreciation of the Central Park bridges designed by Calvert Vaux. It forms a long, low mass lying directly athwart the estate's entry road, which runs southward within its dominating, semicircular arch. The massive walls appear to be crude heaps of rounded boulders from the estate soil -- \"cyclopean rubble\" in Vincent Scully's memorable phrase—trimmed in Longmeadow brownstone. The blocky, two-story lodge proper stands west of the arch, and originally housed the estate gardener on the lower floor with rooms for bachelor guests above. Across the arch is a long, low wing ending in a circular bay, once used for storing plants through the winter.\n\nThe lodge's public (northern) facade is relatively flat and austere; its southern facade, by contrast, is highly shaped with protrusions and a large porch featuring carvings by Augustus Saint-Gaudens. Capping all is the lodge's prominent, hipped, reddish-tiled roof with its eyelid dormers. As Frank Lloyd Wright once wrote, \"The presence of a building is in its roof, and what a roof the Ames Gate Lodge has!\"\n\nThe nearby F. L. Ames Gardener's Cottage (1884–85) was also designed by Richardson, and built some east of the Gate Lodge when the gardener's family outgrew the lodge. It was later enlarged by Richardson's successors, Shepley, Rutan and Coolidge, and has subsequently been shingled and otherwise modified.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58991247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58991247", "title": "Amina Lahbabi-Peters", "text": "Amina Lahbabi-Peters\n\nAmina Lahbabi-Peters, née Amina Lahbabi is a Moroccan interpreter and translator, who has gone on to become a branding, marketing and Communication for Development specialist.\n\nAmina Lahbabi was born in Tangier, Morocco into a family that spoke both Arabic and French and an environment that was influenced by Spanish culture. A multilinguist who also spent fourteen years studying and living in an English-speaking environment, she is fluent in Arabic, English, French and Spanish. At a young age, she had an involvement in different civil society organizations, such as the Scouting-related Fédération Nationale du Scoutisme Marocain.\n\nLahbabi gained a degree in English languages and literature, with a specialization in discourse analysis and sociolinguistics, at Abdelmalek Essaâdi University in Tétouan, a city in northern Morocco. From there, she gained a Masters degree in translation at the King Fahd School of Translation in Tangier. Awarded a Fulbright scholarship, she then went to study for a second Masters degree in advertizing and marketing at Michigan State University (MSU) in the United States.\n\nIn 2008, while studying at MSU, Lahbabi acted as team leader for an international group of students who carried out market research to help the town of Marine City, Michigan promote itself as a tourist attraction.. She also co-founded the International Sponsored Students Organization at MSU in 2007 and volunteered in several community action projects helping minorities and refugees.\n\nAfter finishing her first Masters degree, Lahbabi worked for three years in management positions at Al Akhawayn University in Ifrane, Morocco. While in the United States, she worked as a marketing and communications consultant for non-governmental organizations and for the local chamber of commerce. Returning to Morocco in 2009, she again found work at Al Akhawayn University as Director for Communication and Development, where she developed the institution's first branding and communication strategy and led innovative communication actions with her team. For a time, Lahbabi worked as a Communication and Visibility Officer at the UNESCO headquarters in Paris, where she led innovative and successful global campaigns and initiatives in Communication for Development, working particularly in the Southern Mediterranean/MENA region, Africa and Europe. Throughout her career, she has also worked as a translator, interpreter, newspaper contributor, and writer, as well as a freelance graphic designer, illustrator and photographer.\n\nLahbabi-Peters is married to photographer and writer, Lucas Peters, and currently lives in Paris, France.\n\nLahbabi wrote a self-improvement book, \"Les Couleurs de la Vie\" and this was published by Édilivre on 8 January 2016, .\n\nReviewing \"Les Couleurs de la Vie\" for Kenzi+, Kenza Tazi describes the work as a collection of philosophical reflections that tell us about the different colours of life and their relation to experiences such as \"self-esteem, love, the need to have objectives and to fight to reach them.\" She says that the book encourages optimistic and positive thought to cope with life's difficulties and to move forward, and that it is therapeutic for readers who are overwhelmed by negativity.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17369343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17369343", "title": "Andrew Mellon Building", "text": "Andrew Mellon Building\n\nMcCormick Apartments, also known as Andrew Mellon Building, Mellon Apartment, or 1785 Massachusetts Avenue Northwest, is a landmark apartment building on Embassy Row in Washington, D.C., whose inhabitants once included Andrew W. Mellon. It will soon become home to the American Enterprise Institute.\n\nThe Andrew Mellon Building was built by Stanley McCormick, heir to the International Harvester fortune, in 1915 and completed in 1917. Washington-based Jules Henri de Sibour was architect of the building. This was one of the first Washington apartment buildings for luxury living. The structure was meant to fit in with other Beaux-Arts buildings in the Dupont Circle neighborhood. The building's composition is three principal elevations, to serve as a pivot point for a residential boulevard and two street intersections. The six units it originally contained had quarters for more than forty servants. Some of the Capital's most distinguished personalities once lived here. A partial listing of these residents, from the Historic American Buildings Survey, includes:\n\nThe millionaire industrialist Andrew Mellon is perhaps most significant of these past occupants. He was Secretary of the Treasury from 1921 to 1932. This was the longest tenure since Albert Gallatin. Mellon made this his residence shortly after taking on that role, occupying the top floor from 1922 until his death in 1937. Among his accomplishments include authoring the \"Mellon Plan\" which stimulated the economic boom of the 1920s, and founding the National Gallery of Art. In 1936 Mellon paid $21 million for paintings and sculptures owned by Sir Joseph Duveen, an art dealer leasing the apartment below. At the time this was the largest art transaction on record.\n\nAfter 1941, the building was used for offices and eventually partitioned. The property was conveyed by deed from Katherine Dexter McCormick to the American Council on Education on March 31, 1950. Later the property was conveyed to The Brookings Institution on January 2, 1970. Finally, the building was sold to the National Trust for Historic Preservation on October 28, 1976.\n\nThe Andrew Mellon Building was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1976.\n\nThe National Trust put the building up for sale in mid-2009. The organization said it had outgrown the building, and needed about of space. Real estate experts believed the structure would sell for $1,000 a square foot, or $60 million. Potential buyers considered turning it into a museum or luxury apartments again, but there were no offers at any price. After Trust president Richard Moe stepped down in early 2010 and was replaced by Stephanie Meeks, the organization's board of directors decided to pull the building off the market so that Meeks would not have to devote all her time to finding the National Trust a new home. Instead, National Trust officials said they would rehabilitate some of the structure's windows, HVAC, and mechanical systems and possibly add a green roof.\n\nIn late June 2013, the National Trust sold the Mellon Building to the American Enterprise Institute for $36.5 million. The Trust said it will lease space on the top two floors of the Watergate Office Building. The National Trust holds a permanent historic preservation easement that protects both the interior and exterior of the Mellon Building.\n\n"}
{"id": "30676766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30676766", "title": "Arken Arystanov", "text": "Arken Arystanov\n\nArkén Kenesbékovich Arystánov (; ) (born March 7, 1966 in Almaty), Doctor of Economy.\n\n1988 - Graduated from Lomonosov Moscow State University, Faculty of economics.\n\n1994 - 1996 - National Bank of Kazakhstan, Deputy Director, Department of currency regulation; Director of department of foreign affairs.\n\n1996 - 1998 - Almaty Trade and Financial Bank, Adviser to the Chairman, head of Commercial Department, Vice-Chairman.\n\n1998 - 2000 - Halyk Bank, first Deputy Director of regional division, Head of Credit Department — Managing Director, Director of Credit Risks Department, Adviser to the Chairman.\n\n2000 - 2006 - Vice-Chairman and then Chairman of Kazpost.\n\n2006 - 2011 - Chairman of the Agency for regulation of the regional financial center of Almaty city (RFCA).\n\n2011 - 2013 - Chairman of Kazpost.\n\nArken Arystanov is decorated with the Order of Parasat (2012), Order of Kurmet (2005), Medal \"100 years of Kazakhstan railways\" (2004) and Medal \"10 years to the Constitution of Kazakhstan\".\n"}
{"id": "34546262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34546262", "title": "Asil Nadir", "text": "Asil Nadir\n\nAsil Nadir (born 1 May 1941) is a Turkish Cypriot businessman, who was chief executive of Polly Peck, which he took over as a small textile company, growing it during the 1980s to become one of the United Kingdom's top 100 FTSE-listed companies, with interests in consumer electronics, fruit distribution and packaging. \n\nIn 1990, Polly Peck collapsed following an investigation by the Serious Fraud Office and charges were brought against Asil Nadir on 70 counts of false accounting and theft, which he denied. From 1993 until 2010 Nadir lived in northern Cyprus, having fled there to escape a trial in the UK. He remained a fugitive from British justice until 26 August 2010, when he returned to London to face trial. His trial commenced at the Old Bailey on 3 September 2010, on 13 specimen charges of false accounting and theft totalling £34m. He was found guilty of 10 counts of theft totalling £29m and on 23 August 2012 was sentenced to 10 years in prison.\n\nNadir was born in 1941 in Lefka, Cyprus. His father, Irfan Nadir, was a local businessman and police constable in the colonial police department. When he was six years old he began selling newspapers, and he moved with his family to London in the 1950s when his father expanded the family clothing business from a base in the East End of London.\n\nNadir studied economics at Istanbul University, but returned to Cyprus before graduation to set up a clothing business. He returned to London in the 1960s, but after the invasion by Turkey of northern Cyprus in 1974, accepted the appeal of the authorities to bolster the new region economically. The Turkish occupation enabled him to take over a Greek-Cypriot owned clothing factory in Nicosia, where he greatly expanded exports to the Middle East.\n\nIn the late 1970s he purchased a small British textile company, Polly Peck, which he turned into a portfolio company with which to make various corporate raiding purchases in clothing, fruit packing and later consumer electronics. Through this he came to prominence in the 1980s as a tycoon and the CEO of an organisation by then with over 24,000 shareholders and interests ranging from produce to electronics. Within a decade, Nadir had built Peck from almost nothing into a member of the FTSE 100.\n\nHis alleged criminal mismanagement led to its collapse in 1990.\n\nNadir was prosecuted on various counts of theft and fraud, amounting to 66 charges, but failed to appear at the trial in 1993 having travelled to the unrecognised Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which has no extradition treaty with the United Kingdom, where he resided until 2010. Although a UK arrest warrant was subsequently issued for his breach of bail, it was not valid due to procedural reasons. In a 2003 interview with the BBC, Nadir vowed to return to the UK to attempt to clear his name. However, he said that he was fearful of the consequences to his health and refused to go back until the British government agreed to give him bail and not remand him in prison until his trial. On 26 August 2010, having provided bail of £250,000 and secured an agreement to not be remanded in prison until his trial, he returned to the UK.\n\nPeter Dimond, the pilot who flew Nadir out of the UK from Compton Abbas Airfield in a twin-engined private plane, was jailed for two years in August 1998 for committing an act intended to pervert the course of justice, but he was freed by the Court of Appeal in January 1999 when it quashed the conviction after it was discovered that Nadir was not technically on bail at the time of his escape as his bail had lapsed.\n\nNadir ran a business in northern Cyprus called the Kıbrıs Media Group, which \"inter alia\" publishes the newspaper \"Kıbrıs\" (Turkish for 'Cyprus') and the English language weekly \"Cyprus Today\". It also owns a radio and TV station. Nadir's outlets published articles critical of the Republican Turkish Party/Reform Party coalition government in the run-up to the April 2009 general election and actively supported the then opposition National Unity Party and Democratic Party. On 12 March 2009 Kıbrıs Media Group was suddenly presented with a tax demand in the amount of 11 million Turkish Lira ($6.3 million) payable the following day, on pain of the sequestration of its assets. Leading opposition politicians branded this action as an attempt to gag the free media. The edition of 14 March 2009 of \"Cyprus Today\" appeared as usual.\n\nMinisters subsequently awarded him a multimillion-euro contract to operate Lefkoniko Airport in northern Cyprus.\n\nOn 30 July 2010 it was reported that a British judge had granted Nadir bail, which it was said would pave the way for him to return to the UK to face trial.\n\nOn 26 August 2010, Nadir returned to the UK with his wife Nur in a private Boeing 737 aircraft, leased from Onur Airlines, to face trial. His bail conditions included the £250,000 bail surety already paid to the court, surrendering his passport, wearing an electronic tag, reporting to a police station once a week, and being prohibited from going near any airport. He appeared at the Old Bailey on 3 September 2010 to comply with bail conditions. Nadir stayed in a £20,000-a-month rented house. Owing to the complexity of the allegations, his trial did not begin until 23 January 2012.\n\nOn 22 August 2012, Asil Nadir was found guilty on ten counts of theft of nearly £29m from Polly Peck. The jury found him not guilty on three counts. The jury had been advised at the start of the trial that the 13 were specimen charges and the overall amount allegedly stolen was about £146m. He was sentenced to ten years' imprisonment.\n\nIn April 2016, Asil Nadir was transferred to a Turkish prison. A Ministry of Justice spokesman said: \"It is right that foreign criminals are properly punished but not at the expense of British taxpayers. This government is committed to removing foreign criminals to their own countries. Since Asil Nadir has now repaid the £2 million he owed the Legal Aid Agency, plus £5 million in compensation he paid earlier, arrangements were made with the Turkish government for his removal as part of our Prisoner Transfer Agreement.\"\n\nNadir was born to a Turkish Cypriot family. He is the father of four children, one by his mistress when aged 19, two by his first wife and one by a former mistress. Nadir was listed at 36th on the \"Sunday Times Rich List\" in 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "6831814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6831814", "title": "BPA Worldwide", "text": "BPA Worldwide\n\nBPA Worldwide is an American company that provides independent, third-party audits of audience claims of business-to-business and consumer magazines. It also provides audit services for newspapers, web sites, events, email newsletters, digital magazines and other advertiser-supported media produced by its members. The company is a not-for-profit, (501(c)(6) organization, and is the largest auditor of media in the world in terms of membership, which consists of media owners, marketer companies and advertising agencies. BPA is similar to Alliance for Audited Media, providing independent, third-party verified data that media owners provide to media buyers and advertisers.\n\nThe company operate the \"iCompli\" brand, documenting compliance to defined standards. iCompli verifies adherence to the recommended guidelines of industry bodies and government regulations, as well as self-declared or internal policies and controls.\n\nIn 1931, Controlled Circulation Audit Inc (CCA) opened in New York City. Their first audit, \"Drug Topics\", was completed in September of that year.\n\nIn 1946, they became the first firm to equally audit titles that practiced paid circulation, non-paid circulation, or a combination thereof. The first BPA audit to report paid and controlled circulation on single report was released in 1953.\n\nIn 1954, the CCA changed its name to BPA, which at the time stood for Business Publications Audit of Circulation, Inc. In the same year that they opened their first satellite office in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nIn 1970 BPA completed its first audit of a European title, \"Vision\". In 1976, the Supplementary Audit of product usage and buying influence was introduced. This report allowed publishers to provide advertisers with demographics of which products their readers were currently using, and their role in making future purchases.\n\nIn 1980, the first audit of pass-along individuals was conducted for \"Architectural Record\". This report used surveys to qualified subscribers to determine how many additional individuals also read their copy of the publication.\n\nIn 1985, BPA opened their West Coast office in Los Angeles, California.\n\nBy 1990, the count of business publication members reached 1,200 members. In 1995, BPA was changed to BPA International with the addition of their first overseas office in London. In 1998, the Canadian Circulations Audit Board (CCAB) merged with BPA International. With the addition of their audited titles, total media owner membership exceeded 2,500 members and 500 employees.\n\nBPA changed the business model they had operated under for the previous seventy years and replaced on-site audits at clients' offices with clients shipping them \"boxed\" audits of materials required. This was now possible since the majority of clients records were being stored electronically and accessible via the internet. By 2002, BPA downsized its satellite offices in the US and moved its headquarters to Shelton, Connecticut. By 2003, more than 70% of all US audits were \"boxed\" and sent to Connecticut.\n\nIn 2004, BPA International changed its name to BPA Worldwide. This coincided with the opening of an office in Beijing, China. In 2006, they opened an office in Dubai Media City.\n\nBPA launched its Brand Report product in 2008. The statement allows media owners to report all of their audience \"touch points\" on a single statement.\n\nIn 2012, BPA opened a branch office in Shenzhen, Guangdong Province in China. BPA opened another office in Hong Kong in March 2001. \n\nBPA Worldwide currently performs nearly 2,600 audits in over 20 countries.\n\nThe BPA Media Exchange was launched in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "3691832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3691832", "title": "Bachelor of Business", "text": "Bachelor of Business\n\nA Bachelor of Business (BBus, BBus (Major)) is a three-year undergraduate business degree offered by traditional and newer universities from the post-Dawkins era in Australia, New Zealand and Ireland. It is similar in format and structure to a Bachelor of Commerce (BCom).\n\nIn Australia, it was traditionally awarded by former non-university tertiary institutions which include institutes of technologies, such as Queensland University of Technology, RMIT University and the University of Technology, Sydney. Some former Institute of Technologies and Colleges such as Ballarat College of Advanced Education (University of Ballarat), Swinburne Institute of Technology (Swinburne University) the South Australia Institute of Technology (University of South Australia) and the Western Australia Institute of Technology (Curtin University of Technology) have renamed their Bachelor of Business programs to Bachelor of Commerce after achieving university status.\n\nMany universities such as Monash University and the University of Queensland are offering Bachelor of Business degrees as a way to further specialise students study needs while other universities such as University of New England, University of Tasmania, James Cook University, Griffith University and La Trobe University have replaced many of their traditional general Commerce programs with Business programs. Within Australia, Bachelor of Business degrees are as common as Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor of Economics degrees.\n\nIn Ireland this award can also be offered as an honours degree B Business (Hons) with a further one year study than the ordinary level Bachelor degree.\n\nExamples of such include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23748305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23748305", "title": "Bayer", "text": "Bayer\n\nBayer AG (; ) is a German multinational pharmaceutical and life sciences company. Headquartered in Leverkusen, where its illuminated corporate logo, the Bayer cross, is a landmark, Bayer's areas of business include human and veterinary pharmaceuticals; consumer healthcare products; agricultural chemicals and biotechnology products; and high-value polymers. The company is a component of the Euro Stoxx 50 stock market index. Werner Baumann has been CEO since 2016.\n\nFounded in Barmen in 1863 as a dyestuffs factory, Bayer's first and best-known product was aspirin. In 1898 Bayer trademarked the name \"heroin\" for the drug diacetylmorphine and marketed it as a cough suppressant and non-addictive substitute for morphine until 1910. Bayer also introduced phenobarbital; prontosil, the first widely used antibiotic and the subject of the 1939 Nobel Prize in Medicine; the antibiotic Cipro (ciprofloxacin); and Yaz (drospirenone) birth control pills.\n\nIn 1925 Bayer was one of six chemical companies that merged to form IG Farben, the world's largest chemical and pharmaceutical company. The Allied Control Council seized IG Farben after World War II, because of its role in the Nazi war effort and involvement in the Holocaust, which included using slave labour from concentration camps. It was split into its six constituent companies in 1951, then split again into three: BASF, Bayer and Hoechst.\n\nBayer played a key role in the Wirtschaftswunder in post-war West Germany, quickly regaining its position as one of the world's largest chemical and pharmaceutical corporations. In 2006 the company acquired Schering, in 2014 it acquired Merck & Co.'s consumer business, with brands such as Claritin, Coppertone and Dr. Scholl's, and in 2018 it acquired Monsanto, a leading producer of genetically engineered crops, for $63 billion. Bayer CropScience develops genetically modified crops and pesticides.\n\nBayer AG was founded as a dyestuffs factory in 1863 in Barmen (later part of Wuppertal), Germany, by Friedrich Bayer and his partner, Johann Friedrich Weskott, a master dyer. Bayer was responsible for the commercial tasks. Fuchsine and aniline became the company's most important products.\n\nThe headquarters and most production facilities moved from Barmen to a larger area in Elberfeld in 1866. Friedrich Bayer (1851–1920), son of the company’s founder, was a chemist and joined the company in 1873. After the death of his father in 1880, the company became a joint-stock company, Farbenfabriken vorm. Friedr. Bayern & Co, also known as Elberfelder Farbenfabriken.\nA further expansion in Elberfeld was impossible, so the company moved to the village Wiesdorf at Rhein and settled in the area of the alizarin producer Leverkus and Sons. A new city, Leverkusen, was founded there in 1930 and became home to Bayer AG's headquarters. The company's corporate logo, the Bayer cross, was introduced in 1904, consisting of the word \"BAYER\" written vertically and horizontally, sharing the \"Y\" and enclosed in a circle. An illuminated version of the logo is a landmark in Leverkusen.\n\nBayer's first major product was acetylsalicylic acid—first described by French chemist Charles Frederic Gerhardt in 1853—a modification of salicylic acid or salicin, a folk remedy found in the bark of the willow plant. By 1899 Bayer's trademark Aspirin was registered worldwide for Bayer's brand of acetylsalicylic acid, but it lost its trademark status in the United States, France and the United Kingdom after the confiscation of Bayer's US assets and trademarks during World War I by the United States, and because of the subsequent widespread usage of the word.\n\nThe term \"aspirin\" continued to be used in the US, UK and France for all brands of the drug, but it is still a registered trademark of Bayer in over 80 countries, including Canada, Mexico, Germany and Switzerland. As of 2011 approximately 40,000 tons of aspirin were produced each year and 10–20 billion tablets consumed in the United States alone for prevention of cardiovascular events. It is on the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines, the most important medications needed in a basic health system.\n\nThere is an unresolved controversy over the roles played by Bayer scientists in the development of aspirin. Arthur Eichengrün, a Bayer chemist, said he was the first to discover an aspirin formulation that did not have the unpleasant side effects of nausea and gastric pain. He also said he had invented the name \"aspirin\" and was the first person to use the new formulation to test its safety and efficacy. Bayer contends that aspirin was discovered by Felix Hoffmann to help his father, who had arthritis. Various sources support the conflicting claims. Most mainstream historians attribute the invention of aspirin to Hoffmann and/or Eichengrün.\n\nHeroin (diacetylmorphine), now illegal as an addictive drug, was introduced as a non-addictive substitute for morphine, and trademarked and marketed by Bayer from 1898 to 1910 as a cough suppressant and over-the-counter treatment for other common ailments, including pneumonia and tuberculosis. Bayer scientists were not the first to make heroin, but the company led the way in commercializing it. \"Heroin\" was a Bayer trademark until after World War I.\n\nIn 1903 Bayer licensed the patent for the hypnotic drug diethylbarbituric acid from its inventors Emil Fischer and Joseph von Mering. It was marketed under the trade name Veronal as a sleep aid beginning in 1904. Systematic investigations of the effect of structural changes on potency and duration of action at Bayer led to the discovery of phenobarbital in 1911 and the discovery of its potent anti-epileptic activity in 1912. Phenobarbital was among the most widely used drugs for the treatment of epilepsy through the 1970s, and as of 2014 it remains on the World Health Organization's list of essential medications.\n\nDuring World War I (1914–1918), Bayer's assets, including the rights to its name and trademarks, were confiscated in the United States, Canada and several other countries. In the United States and Canada, Bayer's assets and trademarks, including the well-known Bayer cross, were acquired by Sterling Drug, a predecessor of Sterling Winthrop and were not reclaimed until 1994.\n\nIn 1916 Bayer scientists discovered suramin, an anti-parasite drug that is still sold by Bayer under the brand name Germanin. The formula of suramin was kept secret by Bayer for commercial reasons, but it was elucidated and published in 1924 by Ernest Fourneau and his team at the Pasteur Institute. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines.\n\nIn 1925 Bayer became part of IG Farben, a German conglomerate formed from the merger of six chemical companies: BASF, Bayer, Hoechst (including Cassella and Chemische Fabrik Kalle), Agfa, Chemische Fabrik Griesheim-Elektron, and Chemische Fabrik vorm. Weiler Ter Meer. In the 1930s Gerhard Domagk, director of Bayer's Institute of Pathology and Bacteriology, working with chemists Fritz Mietzsch and Joseph Klarer, discovered prontosil, the first commercially available antibacterial drug. The discovery and development of this first sulfonamide drug opened a new era in medicine. Domagk won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1939 \"for the discovery of the antibacterial effects of prontosil\". He was forced by the Nazi Party to relinquish the reward; German citizens had been forbidden from accepting Nobel prizes since the Nobel committee had awarded the 1935 Nobel Peace Prize to a German pacifist, Carl von Ossietzky.\n\nHelge Wehmeier, then CEO of Bayer, offered a public apology in 1995 to Elie Wiesel for the company's actions during World War II (1939–1945) and the Holocaust. IG Farben, Bayer's parent company, used slave labour in factories it built in German concentration camps, most notably in the Monowitz concentration camp (known as Auschwitz III), part of the Auschwitz camp complex in German-occupied Poland. By 1943 almost half of IG Farben's 330,000-strong workforce consisted of slave labour or conscripts, including 30,000 Auschwitz prisoners.\n\nHelmuth Vetter, an Auschwitz camp physician, SS captain and employee of the Bayer group within IG Farben conducted medical experiments on inmates at Auschwitz and at the Mauthausen concentration camp. In one study of an anaesthetic, the company paid RM 170 per person for the use of 150 female inmates of Auschwitz. A Bayer employee wrote to Rudolf Höss, the Auschwitz commandant: \"The transport of 150 women arrived in good condition. However, we were unable to obtain conclusive results because they died during the experiments. We would kindly request that you send us another group of women to the same number and at the same price.\"\n\nAfter the war, the Allied Control Council seized IG Farben for \"knowingly and prominently ... building up and maintaining German war potential\". It was split into its six constituent companies in 1951, then split again into three: BASF, Bayer and Hoechst. Bayer was at that point known as Farbenfabriken Bayer AG; it changed its name to Bayer AG in 1972. Fritz ter Meer, an IG Farben director and Nazi Party member who directed operations at the IG Farben plant at Auschwitz, was sentenced in 1948 to seven years for war crimes during the IG Farben Trial at Nuremberg. Released in 1950, he was elected chair of Bayer's supervisory board in 1956 and remained in that position until 1964.\n\nIn 1953 Bayer brought the first neuroleptic (chlorpromazine) onto the German market. In the 1960s Bayer introduced a pregnancy test, Primodos, that consisted of two pills that contained norethisterone (as acetate) and ethinylestradiol. It detected pregnancy by inducing menstruation in women who were not pregnant; the presence or absence of menstrual bleeding was then used to determine whether the user was pregnant. The test became the subject of controversy when it was blamed for birth defects, and it was withdrawn from the market in the mid-1970s. Litigation in the 1980s ended inconclusively. A review of the matter by the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency in 2014 assessed the studies performed to date and found the evidence for adverse effects to be inconclusive.\nIn 1978 Bayer purchased Miles Laboratories and its subsidiaries Miles Canada and Cutter Laboratories, acquiring along with them a variety of product lines including Alka-Seltzer, Flintstones vitamins and One-A-Day vitamins, and Cutter insect repellent.\n\nAlong with the purchase of Cutter, Bayer acquired Cutter's Factor VIII business. Factor VIII, a clotting agent used to treat hemophilia, was produced, at the time, by processing donated blood. In the , people with hemophilia were found to have higher rates of AIDS, and by 1983 the CDC had identified contaminated blood products as a source of infection. According to the \"New York Times\", this was \"one of the worst drug-related medical disasters in history\". Companies, including Bayer, developed new ways to treat donated blood with heat to decontaminate it, and these new products were introduced early in 1984. In 1997 Bayer and the other three makers of such blood products agreed to pay $660 million to settle cases on behalf of more than 6,000 hemophiliacs infected in United States. But in 2003 documents emerged showing that Cutter had continued to sell unheated blood products in markets outside the US until 1985, including in Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Japan and Argentina, to offload a product they were unable to sell in Europe and the US; they also continued manufacturing the unheated product for several months. Bayer said it did this because some countries were doubtful about the efficacy of the new product.\n\nBayer has been involved in other controversies regarding its drug products. In the late 1990s it introduced a statin drug, Baycol (cerivastatin), but after 52 deaths were attributed to it, Bayer discontinued it in 2001. The side effect was rhabdomyolysis, causing renal failure, which occurred with a tenfold greater frequency in patients treated with Baycol in comparison to those prescribed alternate medications of the statin class. Trasylol (aprotinin), used to control bleeding during major surgery, was withdrawn from the market worldwide in 2007 when reports of increased mortality emerged; it was later re-introduced in Europe but not in the US.\n\nIn 2014 pharmaceutical products contributed €12.05 billion of Bayer's €40.15 billion in gross revenue. Top-selling products included:\n\n\nBayer produces various fungicides, herbicides, insecticides, and some crop varieties.\n\n\nIn 1994 Bayer AG purchased Sterling Winthrop's over-the-counter (OTC) drug business from SmithKline Beecham and merged it with Miles Laboratories, thereby reclaiming the U.S. and Canadian trademark rights to \"Bayer\" and the Bayer cross, as well as the ownership of the Aspirin trademark in Canada.\n\nIn 2004 acquired the over-the-counter Pharmaceutical Division of Roche Pharmaceuticals. In March 2008 Bayer HealthCare announced an agreement to acquire the portfolio and OTC division of privately owned Sagmel, Inc., a US-based company that markets OTC medications in most of the Commonwealth of Independent States countries such as Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Belarus, and others. On 28 August 2008 an explosion occurred at the Bayer CropScience facility at Institute, West Virginia, United States. A runaway reaction ruptured a tank and the resulting explosion killed two employees. The ruptured tank was close to a methyl isocyanate tank which was undamaged by the explosion.\n\nIn March 2006 Merck KGaA announced a €14.6bn bid for Schering AG, founded in 1851. By 2006 Schering had annual gross revenue of around €5 billion and employed about 26,000 people in 140 subsidiaries worldwide. Bayer responded with a white knight bid and in July acquired the majority of shares of Schering for €14.6bn, and in 2007 Bayer took over Schering AG and formed Bayer Schering Pharma. The acquisition of Schering was the largest take-over in Bayer's history, and as of 2015 was one of the ten biggest pharma mergers of all time.\n\nIn November 2010 Bayer AG signed an agreement to buy Auckland-based animal health company Bomac Group. Bayer partnered on the development of the radiotherapeutic Xofigo with Algeta, and in 2014 moved to acquire the company for about $2.9 billion. In 2014 Bayer agreed to buy Merck's consumer health business for $14.2 billion which would provide Bayer control with brands such as Claritin, Coppertone and Dr. Scholl's. Bayer would attain second place globally in nonprescription drugs. In June 2015 Bayer agreed to sell its diabetic care business to Panasonic Healthcare Holdings for a fee of $1.02 billion.\n\nIn September 2015 Bayer spun out its $12.3 billion materials science division into a separate, publicly traded company called Covestro in which it retained about a 70% interest. Bayer spun out the division because it had relatively low profit margins compared to its life science divisions (10.2%, compared with 24.9% for the agriculture business and 27.5% for healthcare) and because the business required high levels of investment to maintain its growth, and to more clearly focus its efforts and identity in the life sciences. Covestro shares were first offered on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in October 2015. Effective January 2016 following the spinout of Covestro, Bayer rebranded itself as a life sciences company, and restructured into three divisions and one business unit: Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Health, Crop Science, and Animal Health.\n\nIn May 2016 Bayer offered to buy U.S. seeds company Monsanto for $62 billion. Shortly after Bayer's offer, Monsanto rejected the acquisition bid, seeking a higher price. In September 2016 Monsanto agreed to a $66 billion offer by Bayer. In order to receive regulatory approval, Bayer agreed to divest a significant amount of its current agricultural assets to BASF in a series of deals. On 21 March 2018 the deal was approved by the European Union, and it was approved in the United States on 20 May 2018. The sale closed on 7 June 2018. The Monsanto brand was discontinued; its products will be marketed under the Bayer name. In August 2018, two months after acquiring Monsanto, a U.S. jury ordered Monsanto to pay $289 million to a school groundskeeper who claimed his Non-Hodgkins lymphoma was caused by regularly using Roundup, a glyphosate-based herbicide produced by Monsanto. Following the verdict Bayer's share price dropped by around 14% or $14 Billion.\nThe company filed an appeal on 18 September 2018. It faces 8,700 similar lawsuits alleging Roundup caused cancer. The general consensus among national regulatory agencies, the World Health Organization, and the European Commission is that labeled usage of the herbicide poses no carcinogenic or genotoxic risk to humans.\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's major mergers, acquisitions and historical predecessors:\n\nIn 2003, to separate operational and strategic managements, Bayer AG was reorganized into a holding company. The group's core businesses were transformed into limited companies, each controlled by Bayer AG. These companies were: Bayer CropScience AG; Bayer HealthCare AG; Bayer MaterialScience AG and Bayer Chemicals AG, and the three service limited companies Bayer Technology Services GmbH, Bayer Business Services GmbH and Bayer Industry Services GmbH & Co. OHG. In 2016, the company began a second restructuring with the aim of allowing it to transition to a life sciences based company. By divesting its Chemicals division in 2004 and with the aim of off-loading its Materials division by mid-2016, Bayer will be left with the four core units, as depicted below.\n\nBayer CropScience has products in crop protection (i.e. pesticides), nonagricultural pest control, seeds and plant biotechnology. In addition to conventional agrochemical business, it is involved in genetic engineering of food. In 2002, Bayer AG acquired Aventis (now part of Sanofi) CropScience and fused it with their own agrochemicals division (Bayer Pflanzenschutz or \"Crop Protection\") to form Bayer CropScience; the Belgian biotech company Plant Genetic Systems became part of Bayer through the Aventis acquisition. Also in 2002, Bayer AG acquired the Dutch seed company Nunhems, which at the time was one of the world's top five seed companies. In 2006, the U.S. Department of Agriculture announced that Bayer CropScience's LibertyLink genetically modified rice had contaminated the U.S. rice supply. Shortly after the public learned of the contamination, the E.U. banned imports of U.S. long-grain rice and the futures price plunged. In April 2010, a Lonoke County, Arkansas jury awarded a dozen farmers $48 million. The case is currently on appeal to the Arkansas Supreme Court. On 1 July 2011 Bayer CropScience agreed to a global settlement for up to $750 million. In September 2014, the firm announced plans to invest $1 billion in the United States between 2013 and 2016. A Bayer spokesperson said that the largest investments will be made to expand the production of its herbicide Liberty. Liberty is an alternative to Monsanto's product, Roundup, which are both used to kill weeds.\n\nBayer CropScience Limited is the Indian subsidiary of Bayer AG. It is listed on the Indian stock exchanges viz. the Bombay Stock Exchange & National Stock Exchange of India and has a market capitalization of $2 billion. Bayer BioScience, headquartered in Hyderabad, India has about 400 employees, and has research, production and an extensive sales network spread across India.\n\nBefore the 2016 restructuring, Bayer HealthCare comprises a further four subdivisions: Bayer Schering Pharma, Bayer Consumer Care, Bayer Animal Health and Bayer Medical Care. As part of the corporate restructuring, Animal Health was moved into its own business unit, leaving the division with the following categories; Allergy, Analgesics, Cardiovascular Risk Prevention, Cough & Cold, Dermatology, Foot Care, Gastrointestinals, Nutritionals and Sun Care.\n\nBayer Consumer Care manages Bayer's OTC medicines portfolio. Key products include analgesics such as Bayer Aspirin and Aleve, food supplements Redoxon and Berocca, and skincare products Bepanthen and Bepanthol. Women's healthcare is an example of a General Medicine business unit. Bayer Pharma produces the birth control pills Yaz and Yasmin. Both pills use a newer type of progestin hormone called drospirenone in combination with estrogen. Yaz is advertised as a treatment for premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) and moderate acne. Other key products include the cancer drug Nexavar, the multiple sclerosis drug betaferon/betaseron and the blood-clotting drug, Kogenate. In May 2014 it was announced that Bayer would buy Merck & Co's consumer health care unit for $14.2 billion. Bayer also controls Dihon Pharmaceutical Group Co., Ltd in China.\n\nThe Pharmaceuticals Division focuses on prescription products, especially for women’s healthcare and cardiology, and also on specialty therapeutics in the areas of oncology, hematology and ophthalmology. The division also comprises the Radiology Business Unit which markets contrast-enhanced diagnostic imaging equipment together with the necessary contrast agents.\n\nIn addition to internal R&D, Bayer has participated in public–private partnerships. One example in the area of non-clinical safety assessment is the InnoMed PredTox program. another is the Innovative Medicines Initiative of EFPIA and the European Commission.\n\nBayer HealthCare's Animal Health Division is the maker of Advantage Multi (imidacloprid + moxidectin) Topical Solution for dogs and cats, Advantage flea control for cats and dogs and K9 Advantix, a flea, tick, and mosquito control product for dogs. Advantage Multi, K9 Advantix and Advantage are trademarks of Bayer. The division specializes in parasite control and prescription pharmaceuticals for dogs, cats, horses, and cattle. North American operation for the Animal Health Division are headquartered in Shawnee, Kansas. Bayer Animal Health is a division of Bayer HealthCare LLC.\n\nBayer Business Services located at the Bayer USA Headquarters in Robinson Township, Pennsylvania, a suburb of Pittsburgh, Bayer Business Services handles the information technology infrastructure and technical support aspect of Bayer USA and Bayer Canada. This is also the headquarters of the North American Service Desk, the central IT Help Desk for all of Bayer USA and Bayer Canada. Bayer Business Services also employs 4500 specialists in India. Bayer Technology Services is engaged in process development and in process and plant engineering, construction and optimization. Currenta offers services for the chemical industry, including utility supply, waste management, infrastructure, safety, security, analytics and vocational training and is a joint venture between Bayer and Lanxess.\n\nBayer Chemicals AG (with the exception of H.C. Starck and Wolff Walsrode) was combined with certain components of the polymers segment to form the new company Lanxess on 1 July 2004; Lanxess was listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in early 2005. Bayer HealthCare's Diagnostics Division was acquired by Siemens Medical Solutions in January 2007.\n\nBayer Diabetes Care managed Bayer's medical devices portfolio. Key products included the blood glucose monitors Contour Next EZ (XT), Contour, Contour USB and Breeze 2 used in the management of diabetes. The diabetes business unit was sold to Panasonic Healthcare Co. for $1.15 billion in June 2015. Bayer MaterialScience was a supplier of high-tech polymers, and developed solutions for a broad range of applications relevant to everyday life. On 18 September 2014, the Board of Directors of Bayer AG announced plans to float the Bayer MaterialScience business on the stock market as a separate entity. On 1 June 2015 Bayer announced that the new company would be named Covestro; Bayer formally spun out Covestro in September 2015.\n\nFor the fiscal year 2017, Bayer reported earnings of EUR€7.3 billion, with an annual revenue of EUR€35 billion, a decrease of 25.1% over the previous fiscal cycle. Bayer's shares traded at over €69 per share, and its market capitalization was valued at US€65.4 billion in November 2018.\n\nIn 1904, the company founded the sports club TuS 04 (\"Turn- und Spielverein der Farbenfabriken vorm. Friedr. Bayer & Co.\"), later SV Bayer 04 (\"Sportvereinigung Bayer 04 Leverkusen\"), finally becoming TSV Bayer 04 Leverkusen (\"Turn- und Sportverein\") in 1984, generally, however, known simply as Bayer 04 Leverkusen. The club is best known for its football team, but has been involved in many other sports, including athletics, fencing, team handball, volleyball, boxing, and basketball. TSV Bayer 04 Leverkusen is one of the largest sports clubs in Germany. The company also supports similar clubs at other company sites, including Dormagen (particularly handball), Wuppertal (particularly volleyball), and Krefeld-Uerdingen (featuring another former Bundesliga football club, SC Bayer 05 Uerdingen, now KFC Uerdingen 05).\n\nIn October 2008 Bayer's Canadian division was named one of \"Canada's Top 100 Employers\" by Mediacorp Canada Inc. The Canadian division was named one of Greater Toronto's Top Employers by the \"Toronto Star\" newspaper. Bayer USA was given a score of 85 (out of 100) in the Human Rights Campaign's 2011 Corporate Equality Index, a measure of gay and lesbian workplace equality.\n\nIn 2016 Standard Ethics Aei gave a rating to Bayer in order to include the company in its Standard Ethics German Index. Bayer received an EE- rating, the fourth tier in an eight-tier ranking.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12046413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12046413", "title": "Before the Bell", "text": "Before the Bell\n\nBefore the Bell is a morning business news talk show aired weekdays from 5:30 to 6AM ET on CNBC until c. 1999. Hosted by Felicia Taylor.\n\n\"Before the Bell\" targets market watchers with a concise summary of the news. It features coverage of overnight activity in Asian markets, morning activity in European markets and the day's outlook for Wall Street and other American markets. Plus, in-studio interviews with market experts.\n"}
{"id": "38707650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38707650", "title": "Binod Chaudhary", "text": "Binod Chaudhary\n\nBinod Chaudhary (; born 14 April 1955) is a Nepalese businessman, industrialist, philanthropist, and politician serving in the Nepali Congress. He is the current chairman of Chaudhary Group (CG), a conglomerate that consists of nearly 80 companies. Chaudhary is also the first Nepali billionaire, as listed by \"Forbes\".\n\nBesides business, Chaudhary has been involved in several other government and social sectors. He worked as a member of the constituent assembly and parliament of Nepal from April 2008 to May 2012. His CG Foundation works for the social welfare and he often contributes in the areas of art, music and literature as well.\n\nChaudhary was born in Kathmandu, Nepal as the son of Lunkaran Das and Ganga Devi Chaudhary. He was raised in Kathmandu with his elder sister, Kusum Kumari Agrawal, and two brothers Arun and Basant Chaudhary.\n\nHis grandfather was a textile trader and owned a small textile store. His father transformed the store to Arun Emporium which is considered to be Nepal’s first department store. Chaudhary converted the store to a conglomerate which is one of the biggest corporate houses in Nepal. He left his studies and started business at the age of 18 when his father got heart illness.\nChaudhary is married to Sarika and they have three children ( Niravana Chaudhary, Rahul Chaudhary, Varun Chaudhary) .\n\nInspired from his industrious father, Chaudhary always envisioned to become a very big industrialist of Nepal. With more than four decades of continuous hard work, he is living his dreams as he developed the Chaudhary Group to the biggest conglomerate of Nepal which is worth a billion dollars and more. Forbes magazine has listed him as a billionaire in 2014 and he is the 1,460th richest person in the world. Now(2018), he is the 1561st richest person in the world.\n\nToday CG stands as a transnational conglomerate which consists of nearly 80 companies spanning five continents. It has more than 60 brands in 30 countries with more than 6000 employees. Of its food brands, ‘Wai Wai’ noodles has been the most successful business. The brand produces more than a billion packets of noodles annually and is traded over 35 countries worldwide. The Group’s other notable areas of interests are finance, banking, cement, real estate, hotels, electronics and home appliances, education, energy, biotech, power, retail.\n\nChaudhary has publicly stated that much of his success doing business in Nepal has come from his ability to make connections with the right people. He has had close connections with the Nepalese royalty, and credits his decision to give half ownership of a steelmaking company to the then-king's brother in 1982 as \"the main reason for my success.\"\n\nChaudhary has founded the Chaudhary Foundation which makes significant contributions on the fields of education, health, sports and youth empowerment.\n\nGyan Udaya Scholarship, which provides scholarships for needy students (more than 350 students have received this scholarship to date) and Samata Siksha Niketan, which provided a fund of Rs. 3.5 million for infrastructure are some of the major initiatives taken by CG foundation in education field. Similarly, CG Operation Dristi provides eye care services and CG Medicare provides health services to locals.\n\nMoreover, Chaudhary has taken several new initiatives like Gen Nep and Social Building Fund to improve the financial condition of many Nepali through numerous social business activities.\n\nChaudhary has authored his autobiography in a Nepali language book titled 'विनोद चौधरी आत्मकथा' which has also been translated into English by journalist Sanjeev Ghimire. Both versions have been published by Nepa Laya Publication.\n\nHonorary Doctorate Degree from Sri Sri University, India\n\n"}
{"id": "5173221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5173221", "title": "Buster Pearson", "text": "Buster Pearson\n\nBuster Pearson (4 May 1941 – 14 October 2012), born Stedman Pearson in Jamaica, was a musician and producer, and father and former manager of British pop group Five Star. He also owned and ran a number of record labels, most notably the 1970s reggae label K&B Records and the 1980s R&B/dance label Tent Records. He moved to the UK in the late 1960s and toured as a guitarist with soul and reggae artists such as Otis Redding, Jimmy Cliff, Wilson Pickett and Desmond Dekker. He was married to Delores (née Ogeare), mother of Five Star, who also helped with his music businesses.\n\n"}
{"id": "29589839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29589839", "title": "CDT (TV station)", "text": "CDT (TV station)\n\nCDT is an Australian digital television station broadcasting in remote central and eastern Australia. It is jointly owned by Southern Cross Austereo (owner of Southern Cross Central) and Imparja Television Pty Ltd (owner of Imparja Television) and operates under the company name \"Central Digital Television\".\n\nThe station is available via satellite and terrestrial platforms and free-to-air on a number of digital terrestrial transmitters, in remote areas of Australia.\n\nThe station is similar to other joint venture services already available in Tasmania, Mildura, Darwin and Western Australia. Officially, the service's call sign is CDT in the Remote Central and Eastern Australia TV2 licence areas, and IDQ in the Mount Isa TV1 licence area (reflecting the status of existing Southern Cross Television station ITQ).\n\nCentral Digital Television began broadcasting \"10 Central\", \"10 Boss\" and \"10 Peach\" as digital satellite channels on 30 June 2010, the same day as the Viewer Access Satellite Television service was partially launched. Southern Cross Central and Imparja Television also commenced broadcasting digital satellite channels on the same day. The launch of the commercial digital channels coincided with the first analog television transmitter switch off in Mildura, Victoria. This was so viewers in the area who lost adequate television coverage were able to utilise VAST as an alternative source.\n\nOn 10 December 2010, VAST officially launched and began granting access to viewers in the Remote Central and Eastern Australia licence areas. This brought digital television to satellite viewers in the Northern Territory, Queensland and South Australia for the first time. Digital terrestrial transmissions began in Alice Springs, Northern Territory and Mount Isa, Queensland on 2 May 2011, with other areas launching between 2012 and 2013.\n\nCDT is affiliated to Network Ten, but sources programming from two stations. \"Ten Central North\" is based on TVQ Brisbane, and airs \"Ten News First Brisbane\" nightly at 5pm, as well as sports and events live in the Brisbane market. \"10 Central South\", 10 Peach and \"10 Boss\" are based on TEN Sydney, including news and sports such as \"Ten News First Sydney\". Both \"Ten Central\" channels also air programming produced by Southern Cross Austereo. \"10 Peach\" is the same as it is in every region.\n\nCentral Digital Television broadcasts free-to-air digital television channels \"10 Central\", \"10 Peach\" and \"10 Boss\" via terrestrial transmissions in many regional cities and towns. The service is licensed to broadcast within the Remote Central and Eastern Australia TV2 and Mt Isa TV1 licence areas, which include Alice Springs, Bourke, Ceduna, Charleville, Coober Pedy, Cooktown, Katherine, Longreach, Mount Isa, Roma and Weipa, as well as others.\n\nA digital satellite transmission of CDT's channels is available free-to-view on the VAST service in all states and territories of Australia, except Western Australia. \"10 Boss\" is broadcast as a single high definition channel to all viewers, while \"10 Central\" and \"10 Peach\" are each split into two separate standard definition channels. \"Ten Central North\" and \"Eleven North\" are broadcast in Australian Eastern Standard Time for viewers in Northern Territory and Queensland (Northern Australia TV3 licence area), and \"10 Central South\" and \"10 Peach\" in Australian Eastern Summer Time for viewers in New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Tasmania and Norfolk Island (South Eastern Australia TV3 licence area).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32028350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32028350", "title": "Certified National Accountant", "text": "Certified National Accountant\n\nA Certified National Accountant is a qualified professional accountant that has met the educational qualification and professional experience requirements for membership of Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN), and has been accepted as a member of the association. The \"Certified National Accountant\" is also the title of a quarterly journal of ANAN. \n\nAccountancy graduates with a B.Sc. and Higher National Diploma from Nigerian Universities and Polytechnics qualify for admission to a three-year training program at the Nigerian College of Accountancy, Jos.\nOn successful completion of the examinations they earn the designation of Certified National Accountant (CNA)and qualify to join ANAN.\n"}
{"id": "8677038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8677038", "title": "Confederation of Women Entrepreneurs", "text": "Confederation of Women Entrepreneurs\n\nThe Confederation of Women Entrepreneurs (COWE)is a NGO/social organization engaged in the social and economic \"upliftment of women through entrepreneurship\". The slogan \"Gearing women power\" stands for the democratic structure of COWE and stands for \"Of the women, for the women and by the women\".\n\nIt was inaugurated on 22 December 2004 by Honourable Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, Shri Y.S.Rajasekhara Reddy at Jubilee Hall, Hyderabad, India. It has over four hundred and fifty entrepreneur members in the fields of food processing, information technology, pharmaceuticals, printing, packaging, manufacturing, retailing, industries, textiles and the like.\n\nCOWE's vision is to build a group of women who are economically empowered, valued citizens of the nation by combining the dormant talent, skills, practical knowledge and resources of women with dedication and commitment.\n\nCOWE's mission is to enhance women's opportunities by creating a resource base of technical know-how, management, marketing skills, finance, infrastructure and equipment to promote entrepreneurship.\n\nCOWE partners with ZDH-SEQUA.\n\nStudy tours by delegates of COWE have been undertaken to Australia, Sri Lanka, Germany and Egypt with the support of the ZDH-SEQUA Partnership Programme.\n\nTo enable women entrepreneurs to showcase their products and to network with member organisations in India and abroad, COWE organised its first trade fair, COWE Trade Carnival, on 26–28 October 2007, at the Necklace Road in Hyderabad. A sequel to it was organised in 2008.\n\nAn automotive park with 25 women entrepreneurs is being developed in the allotted to COWE by Government of Andhra Pradesh.\n\nThe Andhra Pradesh government allocated of land in three different areas in Medak district for COWE to set up exclusive industrial estates for women.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "235657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=235657", "title": "Corporate governance", "text": "Corporate governance\n\nCorporate governance is the mechanisms, processes and relations by which corporations are controlled and directed. Governance structures and principles identify the distribution of rights and responsibilities among different participants in the corporation (such as the board of directors, managers, shareholders, creditors, auditors, regulators, and other stakeholders) and includes the rules and procedures for making decisions in corporate affairs. Corporate governance includes the processes through which corporations' objectives are set and pursued in the context of the social, regulatory and market environment. Governance mechanisms include monitoring the actions, policies, practices, and decisions of corporations, their agents, and affected stakeholders. Corporate governance practices are affected by attempts to align the interests of stakeholders. Interest in the corporate governance practices of modern corporations, particularly in relation to accountability, increased following the high-profile collapses of a number of large corporations during 2001–2002, most of which involved accounting fraud; and then again after the recent financial crisis in 2008.\n\nCorporate scandals of various forms have maintained public and political interest in the regulation of corporate governance. In the U.S., these include Enron and MCI Inc. (formerly WorldCom). Their demise led to the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in 2002, a U.S. federal law intended to restore public confidence in corporate governance. Comparable failures in Australia (HIH, One.Tel) are associated with the eventual passage of the CLERP 9 reforms. Similar corporate failures in other countries stimulated increased regulatory interest (e.g., Parmalat in Italy).\n\nIn contemporary business corporations, the main external stakeholder groups are shareholders, debtholders, trade creditors and suppliers, customers, and communities affected by the corporation's activities. Internal stakeholders are the board of directors, executives, and other employees.\n\nMuch of the contemporary interest in corporate governance is concerned with mitigation of the conflicts of interests between stakeholders. In large firms where there is a separation of ownership and management and no controlling shareholder, the principal–agent issue arises between upper-management (the \"agent\") which may have very different interests, and by definition considerably more information, than shareholders (the \"principals\"). The danger arises that, rather than overseeing management on behalf of shareholders, the board of directors may become insulated from shareholders and beholden to management. This aspect is particularly present in contemporary public debates and developments in regulatory policy. More explicitly, the danger is that executives paid by stock option have incentive to divert the retained earnings of the firm into buying shares of own company stock, which will then cause the share price to rise. However, retained earnings will then not be used to purchase the latest equipment or to hire quality people. Over the thirty or forty years that the model has been in place, the diversion of retained earnings to stock price manipulation has gradually eroded the competitiveness of the US industrial base. While the public blames low wages in China for eliminating US jobs, the reality is that many US firms compete with high wage nations such as Canada, Germany, or Japan. It is failure of large publicly-held corporations to invest in new equipment and people that holds the US back and erodes the middle class (fewer engineers, chemists, CNC machinists, accountants are needed as plants are left to age out).\n\nWays of mitigating or preventing these conflicts of interests include the processes, customs, policies, laws, and institutions which affect the way a company is controlled. An important theme of governance is the nature and extent of corporate accountability. A related discussion at the macro level focuses on the effect of a corporate governance system on economic efficiency, with a strong emphasis on shareholders' welfare. This has resulted in a literature focused on economic analysis.\n\nCorporate governance has also been more narrowly defined as \"a system of law and sound approaches by which corporations are directed and controlled focusing on the internal and external corporate structures with the intention of monitoring the actions of management and directors and thereby, mitigating agency risks which may stem from the misdeeds of corporate officers.\"\n\nCorporate governance has also been defined as \"Is the act of externally directing, controlling and evaluating a corporation\" and related to the definition of Governance as \"The act of externally directing, controlling and evaluating an entity, process or resource\". In this sense, governance and corporate governance are different from management because governance must be EXTERNAL to the object being governed. Governing agents do not have personal control over, and are not part of the object that they govern. For example, it is not possible for a CIO to govern the IT function. They are personally accountable for the strategy and management of the function. As such, they “manage” the IT function; they do not “govern” it. At the same time, there may be a number of policies, authorized by the board, that the CIO follows. When the CIO is following these policies, they are performing “governance” activities because the primary intention of the policy is to serve a governance purpose. The board is ultimately “governing” the IT function because they stand outside of the function and are only able to externally direct, control and evaluate the IT function by virtue of established policies, procedures and indicators. Without these policies, procedures and indicators, the board has no way of governing, let alone affecting the IT function in any way.\n\nOne source defines corporate governance as \"the set of conditions that shapes the ex post bargaining over the quasi-rents generated by a firm.\" The firm itself is modelled as a governance structure acting through the mechanisms of contract. Here corporate governance may include its relation to corporate finance.\n\nContemporary discussions of corporate governance tend to refer to principles raised in three documents released since 1990: The Cadbury Report (UK, 1992), the Principles of Corporate Governance (OECD, 1999, 2004 and 2015), and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (US, 2002). The Cadbury and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) reports present general principles around which businesses are expected to operate to assure proper governance. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, informally referred to as Sarbox or Sox, is an attempt by the federal government in the United States to legislate several of the principles recommended in the Cadbury and OECD reports.\n\nDifferent models of corporate governance differ according to the variety of capitalism in which they are embedded. The Anglo-American \"model\" tends to emphasize the interests of shareholders. The coordinated or multistakeholder model associated with Continental Europe and Japan also recognizes the interests of workers, managers, suppliers, customers, and the community. A related distinction is between market-oriented and network-oriented models of corporate governance.\n\nSome continental European countries, including Germany, Austria, and the Netherlands, require a two-tiered board of directors as a means of improving corporate governance. In the two-tiered board, the executive board, made up of company executives, generally runs day-to-day operations while the supervisory board, made up entirely of non-executive directors who represent shareholders and employees, hires and fires the members of the executive board, determines their compensation, and reviews major business decisions.\n\nThe Securities and Exchange Board of India Committee on Corporate Governance defines corporate governance as the \"acceptance by management of the inalienable rights of shareholders as the true owners of the corporation and of their own role as trustees on behalf of the shareholders. It is about commitment to values, about ethical business conduct and about making a distinction between personal & corporate funds in the management of a company.\" India is a growing economy and it is quite important to safeguard the interests of investors and also ensure that the responsibility of management is fixed. The Satyam scandal, also known as India's Enron, wiped off billions of shareholders' wealth and threatened foreign investment in India. This is the reason that corporate governance in India has taken the centre stage.\n\nThe so-called \"Anglo-American model\" of corporate governance emphasizes the interests of shareholders. It relies on a single-tiered board of directors that is normally dominated by non-executive directors elected by shareholders. Because of this, it is also known as \"the unitary system\". Within this system, many boards include some executives from the company (who are ex officio members of the board). Non-executive directors are expected to outnumber executive directors and hold key posts, including audit and compensation committees. In the United Kingdom, the CEO generally does not also serve as Chairman of the Board, whereas in the US having the dual role has been the norm, despite major misgivings regarding the effect on corporate governance. The number of US firms combining both roles is declining, however.\n\nIn the United States, corporations are directly governed by state laws, while the exchange (offering and trading) of securities in corporations (including shares) is governed by federal legislation. Many US states have adopted the Model Business Corporation Act, but the dominant state law for publicly traded corporations is Delaware General Corporation Law, which continues to be the place of incorporation for the majority of publicly traded corporations. Individual rules for corporations are based upon the corporate charter and, less authoritatively, the corporate bylaws.\nShareholders cannot initiate changes in the corporate charter although they can initiate changes to the corporate bylaws.\n\nIt is sometimes colloquially stated that in the USA and the UK 'the shareholders own the company'. This is, however, a misconception as argued by Eccles & Youmans (2015) and Kay (2015).\n\nRecent scholarship from the University of Oxford outlines a new theory of corporate governance, founder centrism, which is premised upon a narrowing in the separation between ownership and control. Through the lens of concentrated equity ownership theory, a new theory of the firm, the traditional checklist of best practices are inapplicable, as evidenced by the significant outperformance of technology companies with dual-class share structures and integrated CEO/Chairman positions:\n\nAn article published by the Australian Institute of Company Directors called 'Do Boards Need to become more Entrepreneurial?' written by Nigel Hennessy FAICD also considered the need for Founder Centrism behaviour at board level to appropriately manage disruption. \n\nCorporations are created as legal persons by the laws and regulations of a particular jurisdiction. These may vary in many respects between countries, but a corporation's legal person status is fundamental to all jurisdictions and is conferred by statute. This allows the entity to hold property in its own right without reference to any particular real person. It also results in the perpetual existence that characterizes the modern corporation. The statutory granting of corporate existence may arise from general purpose legislation (which is the general case) or from a statute to create a specific corporation, which was the only method prior to the 19th century.\n\nIn addition to the statutory laws of the relevant jurisdiction, corporations are subject to common law in some countries, and various laws and regulations affecting business practices. In most jurisdictions, corporations also have a constitution that provides individual rules that govern the corporation and authorize or constrain its decision-makers. This constitution is identified by a variety of terms; in English-speaking jurisdictions, it is usually known as the Corporate Charter or the Memorandum and Articles of Association. The capacity of shareholders to modify the constitution of their corporation can vary substantially.\n\nThe U.S. passed the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) in 1977, with subsequent modifications. This law made it illegal to bribe government officials and required corporations to maintain adequate accounting controls. It is enforced by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Substantial civil and criminal penalties have been levied on corporations and executives convicted of bribery.\n\nThe UK passed the Bribery Act in 2010. This law made it illegal to bribe either government or private citizens or make facilitating payments (i.e., payment to a government official to perform their routine duties more quickly). It also required corporations to establish controls to prevent bribery.\n\nThe Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was enacted in the wake of a series of high-profile corporate scandals. It established a series of requirements that affect corporate governance in the U.S. and influenced similar laws in many other countries. The law required, along with many other elements, that:\n\nCorporate governance principles and codes have been developed in different countries and issued from stock exchanges, corporations, institutional investors, or associations (institutes) of directors and managers with the support of governments and international organizations. As a rule, compliance with these governance recommendations is not mandated by law, although the codes linked to stock exchange listing requirements may have a coercive effect.\n\nOne of the most influential guidelines on corporate governance are the G20/OECD Principles of Corporate Governance, first published as the OECD Principles in 1999, revised in 2004 and revised again and endorsed by the G20 in 2015. The Principles are often referenced by countries developing local codes or guidelines. Building on the work of the OECD, other international organizations, private sector associations and more than 20 national corporate governance codes formed the United Nations Intergovernmental Working Group of Experts on International Standards of Accounting and Reporting (ISAR) to produce their Guidance on Good Practices in Corporate Governance Disclosure. This internationally agreed benchmark consists of more than fifty distinct disclosure items across five broad categories:\n\nThe OECD Guidelines on Corporate Governance of State-Owned Enterprises are complementary to the G20/OECD Principles of Corporate Governance, providing guidance tailored to the corporate governance challenges unique to state-owned enterprises.\n\nCompanies listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and other stock exchanges are required to meet certain governance standards. For example, the NYSE Listed Company Manual requires, among many other elements:\n\nThe investor-led organisation International Corporate Governance Network (ICGN) was set up by individuals centered around the ten largest pension funds in the world 1995. The aim is to promote global corporate governance standards. The network is led by investors that manage 18 trillion dollars, and members are located in fifty different countries. ICGN has developed a suite of global guidelines ranging from shareholder rights to business ethics.\n\nThe World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) has done work on corporate governance, particularly on Accounting and Reporting, and in 2004 released Issue Management Tool: Strategic challenges for business in the use of corporate responsibility codes, standards, and frameworks. This document offers general information and a perspective from a business association/think-tank on a few key codes, standards and frameworks relevant to the sustainability agenda.\n\nIn 2009, the International Finance Corporation and the UN Global Compact released a report, Corporate Governance - the Foundation for Corporate Citizenship and Sustainable Business, linking the environmental, social and governance responsibilities of a company to its financial performance and long-term sustainability.\n\nMost codes are largely voluntary. An issue raised in the U.S. since the 2005 Disney decision is the degree to which companies manage their governance responsibilities; in other words, do they merely try to supersede the legal threshold, or should they create governance guidelines that ascend to the level of best practice. For example, the guidelines issued by associations of directors, corporate managers and individual companies tend to be wholly voluntary, but such documents may have a wider effect by prompting other companies to adopt similar practices.\n\nThe modern practice of corporate governance has its roots in the 17th-century Dutch Republic. The first recorded corporate governance dispute in history took place in 1609 between the shareholders/investors (most notably Isaac Le Maire) and directors of the Dutch East India Company (VOC), the world's first formally listed public company.\n\nRobert E. Wright argues in \"Corporation Nation\" (2014) that the governance of early U.S. corporations, of which over 20,000 existed by the Civil War of 1861-1865, was superior to that of corporations in the late 19th and early 20th centuries because early corporations governed themselves like \"republics\", replete with numerous \"checks and balances\" against fraud and against usurpation of power by managers or by large shareholders. (The term \"robber baron\" became particularly associated with US corporate figures in the Gilded Age - the late 19th century.)\n\nIn the immediate aftermath of the Wall Street Crash of 1929 legal scholars such as Adolf Augustus Berle, Edwin Dodd, and Gardiner C. Means pondered on the changing role of the modern corporation in society. From the Chicago school of economics, Ronald Coase introduced the notion of transaction costs into the understanding of why firms are founded and how they continue to behave.\n\nUS economic expansion through the emergence of multinational corporations after World War II (1939-1945) saw the establishment of the managerial class. Several Harvard Business School management professors studied and wrote about the new class: Myles Mace (entrepreneurship), Alfred D. Chandler, Jr. (business history), Jay Lorsch (organizational behavior) and Elizabeth MacIver (organizational behavior). According to Lorsch and MacIver \"many large corporations have dominant control over business affairs without sufficient accountability or monitoring by their board of directors\".\n\nIn the 1980s, Eugene Fama and Michael Jensen established the principal–agent problem as a way of understanding corporate governance: the firm is seen as a series of contracts.\n\nIn the period from 1977 to 1997, corporate directors' duties in the U.S. expanded beyond their traditional legal responsibility of duty of loyalty to the corporation and to its shareholders. \n\nIn the first half of the 1990s, the issue of corporate governance in the U.S. received considerable press attention due to a spate of CEO dismissals (for example, at IBM, Kodak, and Honeywell) by their boards. The California Public Employees' Retirement System (CalPERS) led a wave of \"institutional\" shareholder activism (something only very rarely seen before), as a way of ensuring that corporate value would not be destroyed by the now traditionally cozy relationships between the CEO and the board of directors (for example, by the unrestrained issuance of stock options, not infrequently back-dated).\n\nIn the early 2000s, the massive bankruptcies (and criminal malfeasance) of Enron and Worldcom, as well as lesser corporate scandals (such as those involving Adelphia Communications, AOL, Arthur Andersen, Global Crossing, and Tyco) led to increased political interest in corporate governance. This was reflected in the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Other triggers for continued interest in the corporate governance of organizations included the financial crisis of 2008/9 and the level of CEO pay.\n\nIn 1997 the East Asian Financial Crisis severely affected the economies of Thailand, Indonesia, South Korea, Malaysia, and the Philippines through the exit of foreign capital after property assets collapsed. The lack of corporate governance mechanisms in these countries highlighted the weaknesses of the institutions in their economies.\n\nIn November 2006 the Capital Market Authority (Saudi Arabia) (CMA) issued a corporate governance code in the Arabic language. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has made considerable progress with respect to the implementation of viable and culturally appropriate governance mechanisms (Al-Hussain & Johnson, 2009).\n\nAl-Hussain, A. and Johnson, R. (2009) found a strong relationship between the efficiency of corporate governance structure and Saudi bank performance when using return on assets as a performance measure with one exception - that government and local ownership groups were not significant. However, using stock return as a performance measure revealed a weak positive relationship between the efficiency of corporate governance structure and bank performance.\n\nThis is a list of countries by average overall rating in corporate governance:\n\nKey parties involved in corporate governance include stakeholders such as the board of directors, management and shareholders. External stakeholders such as creditors, auditors, customers, suppliers, government agencies, and the community at large also exert influence. The agency view of the corporation posits that the shareholder forgoes decision rights (control) and entrusts the manager to act in the shareholders' best (joint) interests. Partly as a result of this separation between the two investors and managers, corporate governance mechanisms include a system of controls intended to help align managers' incentives with those of shareholders. Agency concerns (risk) are necessarily lower for a controlling shareholder.\n\nIn private for-profit corporations, shareholders elect the board of directors to represent their interests. In the case of nonprofits, stakeholders may have some role in recommending or selecting board members, but typically the board itself decides who will serve on the board as a 'self-perpetuating' board. The degree of leadership that the board has over the organization varies; in practice at large organizations, the executive management, principally the CEO, drives major initiatives with the oversight and approval of the board.\n\nFormer Chairman of the Board of General Motors John G. Smale wrote in 1995: \"The board is responsible for the successful perpetuation of the corporation. That responsibility cannot be relegated to management.\" A board of directors is expected to play a key role in corporate governance. The board has responsibility for: CEO selection and succession; providing feedback to management on the organization's strategy; compensating senior executives; monitoring financial health, performance and risk; and ensuring accountability of the organization to its investors and authorities. Boards typically have several committees (e.g., Compensation, Nominating and Audit) to perform their work.\n\nThe OECD Principles of Corporate Governance (2004) describe the responsibilities of the board; some of these are summarized below:\n\nAll parties to corporate governance have an interest, whether direct or indirect, in the financial performance of the corporation. Directors, workers and management receive salaries, benefits and reputation, while investors expect to receive financial returns. For lenders, it is specified interest payments, while returns to equity investors arise from dividend distributions or capital gains on their stock. Customers are concerned with the certainty of the provision of goods and services of an appropriate quality; suppliers are concerned with compensation for their goods or services, and possible continued trading relationships. These parties provide value to the corporation in the form of financial, physical, human and other forms of capital. Many parties may also be concerned with corporate social performance.\n\nA key factor in a party's decision to participate in or engage with a corporation is their confidence that the corporation will deliver the party's expected outcomes. When categories of parties (stakeholders) do not have sufficient confidence that a corporation is being controlled and directed in a manner consistent with their desired outcomes, they are less likely to engage with the corporation. When this becomes an endemic system feature, the loss of confidence and participation in markets may affect many other stakeholders, and increases the likelihood of political action. There is substantial interest in how external systems and institutions, including markets, influence corporate governance.\n\nWorld Pensions Council (WPC) experts insist that “institutional asset owners now seem more eager to take to task [the] negligent CEOs” of the companies whose shares they own.\n\nThis development is part of a broader trend towards more fully exercised asset ownership – notably from the part of the boards of directors (‘trustees’) of large UK, Dutch, Scandinavian and Canadian pension investors:\n\nThis could eventually put more pressure on the CEOs of publicly listed companies, as “more than ever before, many [North American,] UK and European Union pension trustees speak enthusiastically about flexing their fiduciary muscles for the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals”, and other ESG-centric investment practices.\n\nIn Britain, “The widespread social disenchantment that followed the [2008-2012] great recession had an impact” on all stakeholders, including pension fund board members and investment managers.\n\nMany of the UK’s largest pension funds are thus already active stewards of their assets, engaging with corporate boards and speaking up when they think it is necessary.\n\nControl and ownership structure refers to the types and composition of shareholders in a corporation. In some countries such as most of Continental Europe, ownership is not necessarily equivalent to control due to the existence of e.g. dual-class shares, ownership pyramids, voting coalitions, proxy votes and clauses in the articles of association that confer additional voting rights to long-term shareholders. Ownership is typically defined as the ownership of cash flow rights whereas control refers to ownership of control or voting rights. Researchers often \"measure\" control and ownership structures by using some observable measures of control and ownership concentration or the extent of inside control and ownership. Some features or types of control and ownership structure involving corporate groups include pyramids, cross-shareholdings, rings, and webs. German \"concerns\" (Konzern) are legally recognized corporate groups with complex structures. Japanese keiretsu (系列) and South Korean chaebol (which tend to be family-controlled) are corporate groups which consist of complex interlocking business relationships and shareholdings. Cross-shareholding is an essential feature of keiretsu and chaebol groups. Corporate engagement with shareholders and other stakeholders can differ substantially across different control and ownership structures.\n\nFamily interests dominate ownership and control structures of some corporations, and it has been suggested that the oversight of family-controlled corporations are superior to corporations \"controlled\" by institutional investors (or with such diverse share ownership that they are controlled by management). A recent study by Credit Suisse found that companies in which \"founding families retain a stake of more than 10% of the company's capital enjoyed a superior performance over their respective sectorial peers.\" Since 1996, this superior performance amounts to 8% per year. Forget the celebrity CEO. \"Look beyond Six Sigma and the latest technology fad. One of the biggest strategic advantages a company can have is blood ties,\" according to a \"Business Week\" study.\n\nThe significance of institutional investors varies substantially across countries. In developed Anglo-American countries (Australia, Canada, New Zealand, U.K., U.S.), institutional investors dominate the market for stocks in larger corporations. While the majority of the shares in the Japanese market are held by financial companies and industrial corporations, these are not institutional investors if their holdings are largely with-on group.\n\nThe largest pools of invested money (such as the mutual fund 'Vanguard 500', or the largest investment management firm for corporations, State Street Corp.) are designed to maximize the benefits of diversified investment by investing in a very large number of different corporations with sufficient liquidity. The idea is this strategy will largely eliminate individual firm financial or other risk. A consequence of this approach is that these investors have relatively little interest in the governance of a particular corporation. It is often assumed that, if institutional investors pressing for changes decide they will likely be costly because of \"golden handshakes\" or the effort required, they will simply sell out their investment.\n\nCorporate governance mechanisms and controls are designed to reduce the inefficiencies that arise from moral hazard and adverse selection. There are both internal monitoring systems and external monitoring systems. Internal monitoring can be done, for example, by one (or a few) large shareholder(s) in the case of privately held companies or a firm belonging to a business group. Furthermore, the various board mechanisms provide for internal monitoring. External monitoring of managers' behavior occurs when an independent third party (e.g. the external auditor) attests the accuracy of information provided by management to investors. Stock analysts and debt holders may also conduct such external monitoring. An ideal monitoring and control system should regulate both motivation and ability, while providing incentive alignment toward corporate goals and objectives. Care should be taken that incentives are not so strong that some individuals are tempted to cross lines of ethical behavior, for example by manipulating revenue and profit figures to drive the share price of the company up.\n\nInternal corporate governance controls monitor activities and then take corrective actions to accomplish organisational goals. Examples include:\n\nIn publicly traded U.S. corporations, boards of directors are largely \"chosen\" by the President/CEO and the President/CEO often takes the Chair of the Board position for him/herself (which makes it much more difficult for the institutional owners to \"fire\" him/her). The practice of the CEO also being the Chair of the Board is fairly common in large American corporations.\n\nWhile this practice is common in the U.S., it is relatively rare elsewhere. In the U.K., successive codes of best practice have recommended against duality.\n\nExternal corporate governance controls the external stakeholders' exercise over the organization. Examples include:\n\nThe board of directors has primary responsibility for the corporation's internal and external financial reporting functions. The chief executive officer and chief financial officer are crucial participants, and boards usually have a high degree of reliance on them for the integrity and supply of accounting information. They oversee the internal accounting systems, and are dependent on the corporation's accountants and internal auditors.\n\nCurrent accounting rules under International Accounting Standards and U.S. GAAP allow managers some choice in determining the methods of measurement and criteria for recognition of various financial reporting elements. The potential exercise of this choice to improve apparent performance increases the information risk for users. Financial reporting fraud, including non-disclosure and deliberate falsification of values also contributes to users' information risk. To reduce this risk and to enhance the perceived integrity of financial reports, corporation financial reports must be audited by an independent external auditor who issues a report that accompanies the financial statements.\n\nOne area of concern is whether the auditing firm acts as both the independent auditor and management consultant to the firm they are auditing. This may result in a conflict of interest which places the integrity of financial reports in doubt due to client pressure to appease management. The power of the corporate client to initiate and terminate management consulting services and, more fundamentally, to select and dismiss accounting firms contradicts the concept of an independent auditor. Changes enacted in the United States in the form of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (following numerous corporate scandals, culminating with the Enron scandal) prohibit accounting firms from providing both auditing and management consulting services. Similar provisions are in place under clause 49 of Standard Listing Agreement in India.\n\n\nIncreasing attention and regulation (as under the Swiss referendum \"against corporate rip-offs\" of 2013) has been brought to executive pay levels since the financial crisis of 2007–2008. Research on the relationship between firm performance and executive compensation does not identify consistent and significant relationships between executives' remuneration and firm performance. Not all firms experience the same levels of agency conflict, and external and internal monitoring devices may be more effective for some than for others. Some researchers have found that the largest CEO performance incentives came from ownership of the firm's shares, while other researchers found that the relationship between share ownership and firm performance was dependent on the level of ownership. The results suggest that increases in ownership above 20% cause management to become more entrenched, and less interested in the welfare of their shareholders.\n\nSome argue that firm performance is positively associated with share option plans and that these plans direct managers' energies and extend their decision horizons toward the long-term, rather than the short-term, performance of the company. However, that point of view came under substantial criticism circa in the wake of various security scandals including mutual fund timing episodes and, in particular, the backdating of option grants as documented by University of Iowa academic Erik Lie and reported by James Blander and Charles Forelle of the \"Wall Street Journal\".\n\nEven before the negative influence on public opinion caused by the 2006 backdating scandal, use of options faced various criticisms. A particularly forceful and long running argument concerned the interaction of executive options with corporate stock repurchase programs. Numerous authorities (including U.S. Federal Reserve Board economist Weisbenner) determined options may be employed in concert with stock buybacks in a manner contrary to shareholder interests. These authors argued that, in part, corporate stock buybacks for U.S. Standard & Poor's 500 companies surged to a $500 billion annual rate in late 2006 because of the effect of options. A compendium of academic works on the option/buyback issue is included in the study \"Scandal\" by author M. Gumport issued in 2006.\n\nA combination of accounting changes and governance issues led options to become a less popular means of remuneration as 2006 progressed, and various alternative implementations of buybacks surfaced to challenge the dominance of \"open market\" cash buybacks as the preferred means of implementing a share repurchase plan.\n\nShareholders elect a board of directors, who in turn hire a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) to lead management. The primary responsibility of the board relates to the selection and retention of the CEO. However, in many U.S. corporations the CEO and Chairman of the Board roles are held by the same person. This creates an inherent conflict of interest between management and the board.\n\nCritics of combined roles argue the two roles should be separated to avoid the conflict of interest and more easily enable a poorly performing CEO to be replaced. Warren Buffett wrote in 2014: \"In my service on the boards of nineteen public companies, however, I’ve seen how hard it is to replace a mediocre CEO if that person is also Chairman. (The deed usually gets done, but almost always very late.)\"\n\nAdvocates argue that empirical studies do not indicate that separation of the roles improves stock market performance and that it should be up to shareholders to determine what corporate governance model is appropriate for the firm.\n\nIn 2004, 73.4% of U.S. companies had combined roles; this fell to 57.2% by May 2012. Many U.S. companies with combined roles have appointed a \"Lead Director\" to improve independence of the board from management. German and UK companies have generally split the roles in nearly 100% of listed companies. Empirical evidence does not indicate one model is superior to the other in terms of performance. However, one study indicated that poorly performing firms tend to remove separate CEOs more frequently than when the CEO/Chair roles are combined.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45242255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45242255", "title": "David Ford (marketing scientist)", "text": "David Ford (marketing scientist)\n\nDavid Ford (born 1944) is a British organizational theorist, Professor Emeritus at the University of Bath School of Management, and co-founder of the International Marketing and Purchasing Group (IMP Group) in the mid 1970s. He is known for his work with Håkan Håkansson on business networks.\n\nFord obtained his BSc in Mechanical Engineering at the University of Salford, his MSc at the University of Bradford, and his PhD at the Manchester Business School. In 2007 he was awarded an Honorary Degree from the Uppsala Universitet, Sweden for developing \"a worldwide system for improving the way companies interact with customers and suppliers.\"\n\nFord started his academic career at the University of Bath as lecturer, and promoted to senior lecturer, reader and in 1989 Professor of Marketing. In 2008 he retired as Emeritus Professor, and became Affiliate Professor at KEDGE Business School in Marseille, France. In 1976 he was co-founder of the Industrial Marketing and Purchasing Group (IMP group). \n\nFord's research interests are in the field of \"relationships between companies develop and how they can be managed effectively. It also involves issues of technological development within and between companies. I am currently working as part of the team on the \"Newmark\" project. This study is looking at ways in which complex networks of companies operate and how companies behave within them.\" \n\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "34805463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34805463", "title": "Eastern Orthodox psychotherapy", "text": "Eastern Orthodox psychotherapy\n\nOrthodox psychotherapy refers to \"the process of spiritual growth and development\" as used in the Eastern Orthodox Church. In this context, it is a theological term rather than medical or psychological term. The term is not limited to traditional psychotherapy used to treat psychological problems, but it rather refers to all people by dealing with their core existential issues. Metropolitan Hierotheos introduced the phrase through his homonymous book.\n"}
{"id": "52738509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52738509", "title": "European management", "text": "European management\n\nEuropean management is defined as \"cross-cultural, societal management based on an interdisciplinary approach\" and has three characteristics:\n\n\nOften European management is contrasted to the American or Japanese management culture. While Americans pursue risk more easily, Europeans rather pursue stability leading to less opportunities with fewer financial rewards. The European approach often is considered to be more balanced between economic efficiency and social concerns.\n\n"}
{"id": "10239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10239", "title": "Exxon", "text": "Exxon\n\nExxon was the brand name of oil and natural resources company Exxon Corporation, prior to 1972 known as Standard Oil Company of New Jersey. In 1999, Exxon Corporation merged with Mobil to form ExxonMobil. The \"Exxon\" brand is still used by ExxonMobil's downstream operations as a brand for certain gas stations, motor fuel and related products (the highest concentration of which are located in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Texas and in the Mid-Atlantic and Southeastern states). Standard Oil Company of New Jersey was one of the Seven Sisters that dominated the global petroleum industry from the mid-1940s to the 1970s.\n\nExxon replaced the Esso, Enco, and Humble brands in the United States in 1973. The Esso name was a trademark of Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, and attracted protests from other Standard Oil spinoffs because of its phonetic similarity to the acronym of the name of the parent company, Standard Oil. As a result, Standard Oil Company of New Jersey was restricted from using Esso in the U.S., except in those states awarded to it in the 1911 Standard Oil antitrust settlement.\n\nIn states where it was restricted from using the Esso name, the company marketed under the Humble or Enco brands. The Humble brand was used at Texas stations for decades, as those operations were under the direction of Standard Oil Company of New Jersey affiliate Humble Oil & Refining Company. In the middle to late 1950s, use of the Humble brand spread to other southwestern states, including Arizona, New Mexico, and Oklahoma.\n\nIn 1959, Standard Oil Company of New Jersey secured full control of Humble Oil and restructured it into its U.S. marketing and refining division, to market nationwide under the Enco, Esso and Humble brands. Enco was created as an acronym for the phrase \"Energy Company\". Humble introduced the Enco brand in 1960 in Oklahoma and surrounding states, to replace Humble's subsidiary Oklahoma and Pate brands. Humble also tried marketing under Enco in Ohio, but Standard Oil Company of Ohio (Sohio) protested that the Enco name and logo (a white oval with blue border and red lettering) too closely resembled that of Esso. Consequently, stations in Ohio were rebranded as Humble, and remained so until the Exxon brand came into use.\n\nAfter the Enco brand was discontinued in Ohio, it was moved to other non-Esso states. In 1961, Humble stations in Arizona, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas were rebranded to Enco. That same year, Enco appeared on former Carter stations in the Midwest and the Pacific Northwest.\n\nIn 1963, Humble Oil and Tidewater Oil Company began negotiating a sale of Tidewater's West Coast refining and marketing operations. The sale would have given Humble Oil a large number of existing Flying A stations and distributorships, as well as a refinery in California, the nation's fastest-growing gasoline market. However, the Justice Department objected to the sale on anti-trust grounds. (In 1966, Phillips Petroleum Company bought Tidewater's western properties and rebranded all Flying A outlets to Phillips 66.)\n\nHumble Oil continued to expand its West Coast operations, adding California to its marketing territory, building a large number of new Enco stations and rebranding others. In 1967, Humble Oil purchased all remaining Signal stations from Standard Oil Company of California (Chevron) and rebranded them as Enco outlets, greatly increasing Enco's presence in California. Finally, in 1969, Humble Oil opened a new refinery in Benicia, California.\n\nIn 1966, the U.S. Justice Department ordered Humble Oil to \"cease and desist\" from using the Esso brand at stations in several southeastern states, following protests from Standard Oil of Kentucky (Kyso), which was a Standard Oil of California subsidiary in the process of rebranding its Standard stations to Chevron. By 1967, Humble Oil's Esso stations in the Southeast were rebranded to Enco.\n\nIn the 1960s and early 1970s, Humble Oil continued to have difficulties promoting itself as a nationwide marketer of petroleum products, despite a number of high-profile marketing strategies. These included the popular \"Put a Tiger in Your Tank\" advertising campaign and accompanying tiger mascot, introduced in 1959, to promote Enco Extra and Esso Extra gasolines. Humble Oil also used similar logotypes, use of the Humble name in all Enco and Esso advertising, and uniform designs for all stations regardless of brand. In addition, Humble Oil was a major promoter and broadcast sponsor for college football in the Pacific-8 (now Pac-12) and Southwestern conferences.\n\nBut Humble Oil still faced stiff competition from national brands such as Shell and Texaco, which at that time was the only company to market under one brand name in all 50 states. By the late 1960s, Humble officials realized that the time had come to develop a new brand name that could be used nationwide.\n\nAt first, consideration was given to simply rebranding all stations as Enco, but that was shelved when it was learned that the word \"Enco\" is similar in pronunciation to the Japanese slang term \"enko\", meaning \"stalled car\" (an abbreviation of \"enjin no kosho\", \"engine breakdown\").\n\nIn 1972, Exxon was unveiled as the new, unified brand name for all former Enco and Esso outlets. At the same time, the company changed its corporate name from Standard Oil of New Jersey to Exxon Corporation. The rebranding came after successful test-marketing of the Exxon name, under two experimental logos, in the fall and winter of 1971–1972. Along with the new name, Exxon settled on a rectangular logo using red lettering and blue trim on a white background, similar to the familiar color scheme on the old Enco and Esso logos.\n\nThe company initially planned to change its name to \"Exon\", in keeping with the four-letter format of Enco and Esso. However, during the planning process, it was noted that James Exon was the governor of Nebraska. Renaming the company after a sitting governor seemed ill-advised. George T. Piercy, a senior member of the board of directors suggested adding an X resulting in the new EXXON name.\n\nThe unrestricted international use of the popular Esso brand prompted Exxon to continue using it outside the U.S. Esso is the only widely used Standard Oil descendant brand left in existence. Others, such as Chevron, maintain a few Standard-branded stations in specific states in order to retain their trademarks and prevent others from using them.\n\nUnder the guidance of its paid consultants at Boston Consulting Group, Exxon announced in the 1970s that it would compete against IBM and Xerox. The mantra was ‘Information Is the Oil of the 21st Century’. It launched Exxon Office Systems, which predictably failed, since \"the giant oil company failed to fully realize the subtleties of managing small high-tech companies.\" In the early 1980's, Exxon retailed its fax machines and software through Sears. Exxon announced the closure of the venture at the end of 1984.\n\nIn 1989, Exxon announced that it was moving its headquarters, including about 300 employees, from Manhattan, New York City to the Las Colinas area of Irving, Texas. Exxon sold the Exxon Building (1251 Avenue of the Americas), its former headquarters in Rockefeller Center, to a unit of Mitsui Real Estate Development Co. Ltd. in 1986 for $610 million. John Walsh, president of Exxon subsidiary Friendswood Development Company, stated that Exxon left New York because the costs were too high. In 2009 Exxon partnered with Turner Ridge Capital Management to develop and finance their U.S. alternative energy infrastructure.\n\nIn 2016, ExxonMobil successfully asked a U.S. federal court to lift the aforementioned trademark injunction that banned it from using the Esso brand in various states. By this time, as a result of numerous mergers and rebranding, the remaining Standard Oil companies that previously objected to the Esso name had been acquired by BP. ExxonMobil cited trademark surveys in which there was no longer possible confusion with the Esso name as it was more than seven decades before. BP also had no objection to lifting the ban. ExxonMobil did not specify whether they would now open new stations in the U.S. under the Esso name; they were primarily concerned about the additional expenses of having separate marketing, letterheads, packaging, and other materials that omit \"Esso\".\n\nThe rectangular Exxon logo, with the blue strip at the bottom and red lettering with the two 'X's interlinked together, was designed by noted industrial stylist Raymond Loewy. The interlinked 'X's are incorporated in the modern-day ExxonMobil corporate logo; in mid-2016, as part of a corporate rebranding accompanying the launch of ExxonMobil's \"Synergy\" fuel products, the mixed-case Exxon wordmark from the ExxonMobil corporate logo became the brand's main logo.\n\nIn 1985, Minolta introduced an autofocus SLR camera system named \"Maxxum\" in the United States. Originally, cameras (such as the Maxxum 7000) lenses and flashes used a logo with the X's crossed in 'MAXXUM'. Exxon considered this a violation of their trademark, and as a result, Minolta was allowed to distribute cameras already produced, but was forced to change the stylistic 'XX' and implement this as a change in new production. ExxonMobil similarly sued 21st Century Fox over its cable channel FXX, but the parties agreed to dismiss the suit in October 2015.\n\nExxon is ExxonMobil's primary retail gasoline brand in most of the United States, with the highest concentration of retail outlets located in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Texas and in the Mid-Atlantic and Southeastern states. The Exxon brand also has a market presence in the following metropolitan areas:\nMobil is the company's primary retail gasoline brand in California, Florida, New York, New England, the Great Lakes and the Midwest. Esso is ExxonMobil's primary gasoline brand worldwide except in Australia, Mexico and New Zealand, where the Mobil brand is used exclusively. In Colombia, Japan, and formerly Malaysia, both the Esso and Mobil brands are used, and Esso and Mobil in Japan will be rebranded as ENEOS in 2020, while Esso and Mobil in Malaysia were fully rebranded as Petron in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "253492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253492", "title": "Factor analysis", "text": "Factor analysis\n\nFactor analysis is a statistical method used to describe variability among observed, correlated variables in terms of a potentially lower number of unobserved variables called factors. For example, it is possible that variations in six observed variables mainly reflect the variations in two unobserved (underlying) variables. Factor analysis searches for such joint variations in response to unobserved latent variables. The observed variables are modelled as linear combinations of the potential factors, plus \"error\" terms. Factor analysis aims to find independent latent variables. The theory behind factor analytic methods is that the information gained about the interdependencies between observed variables can be used later to reduce the set of variables in a dataset. Factor analysis is commonly used in biology, psychometrics, personality theories, marketing, product management, operations research, and finance. Proponents of factor analysis believe that it helps to deal with data sets where there are large numbers of observed variables that are thought to reflect a smaller number of underlying/latent variables. It is one of the most commonly used inter-dependency techniques and is used when the relevant set of variables shows a systematic inter-dependence and the objective is to find out the latent factors that create a commonality.\n\nFactor analysis is related to principal component analysis (PCA), but the two are not identical. There has been significant controversy in the field over differences between the two techniques (see section on exploratory factor analysis versus principal components analysis below). PCA can be considered as a more basic version of exploratory factor analysis (EFA) that was developed in the early days prior to the advent of high-speed computers. Both PCA and factor analysis aim to reduce the dimensionality of a set of data, but the approaches taken to do so are different for the two techniques. Factor analysis is clearly designed with the objective to identify certain unobservable factors from the observed variables, whereas PCA does not directly address this objective; at best, PCA provides an approximation to the required factors. From the point of view of exploratory analysis, the eigenvalues of PCA are inflated component loadings, i.e., contaminated with error variance.\n\nSuppose we have a set of formula_1 observable random variables, formula_2 with means formula_3.\n\nSuppose for some unknown constants formula_4 and formula_5 unobserved random variables formula_6 (called \"common factors,\" because they influence all the observed random variables), where formula_7 and formula_8 where formula_9\n\nHere, the formula_10 are unobserved stochastic error terms with zero mean and finite variance, which may not be the same for all formula_11.\n\nIn matrix terms, we have\n\nIf we have formula_13 observations, then we will have the dimensions formula_14, formula_15, and formula_16. Each column of formula_17 and formula_18 denotes values for one particular observation, and matrix formula_19 does not vary across observations.\n\nAlso we will impose the following assumptions on formula_18:\n\n\nAny solution of the above set of equations following the constraints for formula_18 is defined as the \"factors\", and formula_19 as the loading matrix.\n\nSuppose formula_27. Then note that from the conditions just imposed on formula_18, we have\n\nor\n\nor\n\nNote that for any orthogonal matrix formula_32, if we set formula_33 and formula_34, the criteria for being factors and factor loadings still hold. Hence a set of factors and factor loadings is unique only up to an orthogonal transformation.\n\nSuppose a psychologist has the hypothesis that there are two kinds of intelligence, \"verbal intelligence\" and \"mathematical intelligence\", neither of which is directly observed. Evidence for the hypothesis is sought in the examination scores from each of 10 different academic fields of 1000 students. If each student is chosen randomly from a large population, then each student's 10 scores are random variables. The psychologist's hypothesis may say that for each of the 10 academic fields, the score averaged over the group of all students who share some common pair of values for verbal and mathematical \"intelligences\" is some constant times their level of verbal intelligence plus another constant times their level of mathematical intelligence, i.e., it is a combination of those two \"factors\". The numbers for a particular subject, by which the two kinds of intelligence are multiplied to obtain the expected score, are posited by the hypothesis to be the same for all intelligence level pairs, and are called \"factor loading\" for this subject. For example, the hypothesis may hold that the average student's aptitude in the field of astronomy is\n\nThe numbers 10 and 6 are the factor loadings associated with astronomy. Other academic subjects may have different factor loadings.\n\nTwo students assumed to have identical degrees of the latent, unmeasured traits of verbal and mathematical intelligence may have different measured aptitudes in astronomy because individual aptitudes differ from average aptitudes and because of measurement error itself. Such differences make up what is collectively called the \"error\" — a statistical term that means the amount by which an individual, as measured, differs from what is average for or predicted by his or her levels of intelligence (see errors and residuals in statistics).\n\nThe observable data that go into factor analysis would be 10 scores of each of the 1000 students, a total of 10,000 numbers. The factor loadings and levels of the two kinds of intelligence of each student must be inferred from the data.\n\nIn the following, matrices will be indicated by indexed variables. \"Subject\" indices will be indicated using letters a,b and c, with values running from 1 to formula_35 which is equal to 10 in the above example. \"Factor\" indices will be indicated using letters p, q and r, with values running from 1 to formula_36 which is equal to 2 in the above example. \"Instance\" or \"sample\" indices will be indicated using letters i,j and k, with values running from 1 to formula_37. In the example above, if a sample of formula_38 students responded to the formula_39 questions, the \"i\"th student's score for the \"a\"th question are given by formula_40. The purpose of factor analysis is to characterize the correlations between the variables formula_41 of which the formula_40 are a particular instance, or set of observations. In order for the variables to be on equal footing, they are normalized:\nwhere the sample mean is:\nand the sample variance is given by:\nThe factor analysis model for this particular sample is then:\n\nor, more succinctly:\n\nwhere\n\nIn matrix notation, we have\nObserve that by doubling the scale on which \"verbal intelligence\"—the first component in each column of \"F\"—is measured, and simultaneously halving the factor loadings for verbal intelligence makes no difference to the model. Thus, no generality is lost by assuming that the standard deviation of the factors for verbal intelligence is 1. Likewise for mathematical intelligence. Moreover, for similar reasons, no generality is lost by assuming the two factors are uncorrelated with each other. In other words:\nwhere formula_53 is the Kronecker delta (0 when formula_54 and 1 when formula_55).The errors are assumed to be independent of the factors:\nNote that, since any rotation of a solution is also a solution, this makes interpreting the factors difficult. See disadvantages below. In this particular example, if we do not know beforehand that the two types of intelligence are uncorrelated, then we cannot interpret the two factors as the two different types of intelligence. Even if they are uncorrelated, we cannot tell which factor corresponds to verbal intelligence and which corresponds to mathematical intelligence without an outside argument.\n\nThe values of the loadings \"L\", the averages μ, and the variances of the \"errors\" ε must be estimated given the observed data \"X\" and \"F\" (the assumption about the levels of the factors is fixed for a given \"F\"). \nThe \"fundamental theorem\" may be derived from the above conditions:\nThe term on the left is the (a,b) term of the correlation matrix (an formula_58 matrix) of the observed data, and its formula_35 diagonal elements will be 1's. The last term on the right will be a diagonal matrix with terms less than unity. The first term on the right is the \"reduced correlation matrix\" and will be equal to the correlation matrix except for its diagonal values which will be less than unity. These diagonal elements of the reduced correlation matrix are called \"communalities\" (which represent the fraction of the variance in the observed variable that is accounted for by the factors):\nThe sample data formula_61 will not, of course, exactly obey the fundamental equation given above due to sampling errors, inadequacy of the model, etc. The goal of any analysis of the above model is to find the factors formula_62 and loadings formula_50 which, in some sense, give a \"best fit\" to the data. In factor analysis, the best fit is defined as the minimum of the mean square error in the off-diagonal residuals of the correlation matrix:\n\nThis is equivalent to minimizing the off-diagonal components of the error covariance which, in the model equations have expected values of zero. This is to be contrasted with principal component analysis which seeks to minimize the mean square error of all residuals. Before the advent of high speed computers, considerable effort was devoted to finding approximate solutions to the problem, particularly in estimating the communalities by other means, which then simplifies the problem considerably by yielding a known reduced correlation matrix. This was then used to estimate the factors and the loadings. With the advent of high-speed computers, the minimization problem can be solved iteratively with adequate speed, and the communalities are calculated in the process, rather than being needed beforehand. The MinRes algorithm is particularly suited to this problem, but is hardly the only iterative means of finding a solution.\n\nIf the solution factors are allowed to be correlated (as in oblimin rotation, for example), then the corresponding mathematical model uses skew coordinates rather than orthogonal coordinates.\n\nThe parameters and variables of factor analysis can be given a geometrical interpretation. The data (formula_61), the factors (formula_62) and the errors (formula_67) can be viewed as vectors in an formula_37-dimensional Euclidean space (sample space), represented as formula_69, formula_70 and formula_71 respectively. Since the data are standardized, the data vectors are of unit length (formula_72). The factor vectors define an formula_36-dimensional linear subspace (i.e. a hyperplane) in this space, upon which the data vectors are projected orthogonally. This follows from the model equation \nand the independence of the factors and the errors: formula_75. In the above example, the hyperplane is just a 2-dimensional plane defined by the two factor vectors. The projection of the data vectors onto the hyperplane is given by \nand the errors are vectors from that projected point to the data point and are perpendicular to the hyperplane. The goal of factor analysis is to find a hyperplane which is a \"best fit\" to the data in some sense, so it doesn't matter how the factor vectors which define this hyperplane are chosen, as long as they are independent and lie in the hyperplane. We are free to specify them as both orthogonal and normal (formula_77) with no loss of generality. After a suitable set of factors are found, they may also be arbitrarily rotated within the hyperplane, so that any rotation of the factor vectors will define the same hyperplane, and also be a solution. As a result, in the above example, in which the fitting hyperplane is two dimensional, if we do not know beforehand that the two types of intelligence are uncorrelated, then we cannot interpret the two factors as the two different types of intelligence. Even if they are uncorrelated, we cannot tell which factor corresponds to verbal intelligence and which corresponds to mathematical intelligence, or whether the factors are linear combinations of both, without an outside argument.\n\nThe data vectors formula_69 have unit length. The correlation matrix for the data is given by formula_79. The correlation matrix can be geometrically interpreted as the cosine of the angle between the two data vectors formula_69 and formula_81. The diagonal elements will clearly be 1's and the off diagonal elements will have absolute values less than or equal to unity. The \"reduced correlation matrix\" is defined as \n\nThe goal of factor analysis is to choose the fitting hyperplane such that the reduced correlation matrix reproduces the correlation matrix as nearly as possible, except for the diagonal elements of the correlation matrix which are known to have unit value. In other words, the goal is to reproduce as accurately as possible the cross-correlations in the data. Specifically, for the fitting hyperplane, the mean square error in the off-diagonal components \n\nis to be minimized, and this is accomplished by minimizing it with respect to a set of orthonormal factor vectors. It can be seen that \n\nThe term on the right is just the covariance of the errors. In the model, the error covariance is stated to be a diagonal matrix and so the above minimization problem will in fact yield a \"best fit\" to the model: It will yield a sample estimate of the error covariance which has its off-diagonal components minimized in the mean square sense. It can be seen that since the formula_85 are orthogonal projections of the data vectors, their length will be less than or equal to the length of the projected data vector, which is unity. The square of these lengths are just the diagonal elements of the reduced correlation matrix. These diagonal elements of the reduced correlation matrix are known as \"communalities\":\n\nLarge values of the communalities will indicate that the fitting hyperplane is rather accurately reproducing the correlation matrix. It should be noted that the mean values of the factors must also be constrained to be zero, from which it follows that the mean values of the errors will also be zero.\n\nExploratory factor analysis (EFA) is used to identify complex interrelationships among items and group items that are part of unified concepts. The researcher makes no \"a priori\" assumptions about relationships among factors.\n\nConfirmatory factor analysis (CFA) is a more complex approach that tests the hypothesis that the items are associated with specific factors. CFA uses structural equation modeling to test a measurement model whereby loading on the factors allows for evaluation of relationships between observed variables and unobserved variables. Structural equation modeling approaches can accommodate measurement error, and are less restrictive than least-squares estimation. Hypothesized models are tested against actual data, and the analysis would demonstrate loadings of observed variables on the latent variables (factors), as well as the correlation between the latent variables.\n\nPrincipal component analysis (PCA) is a widely used method for factor extraction, which is the first phase of EFA. Factor weights are computed to extract the maximum possible variance, with successive factoring continuing until there is no further meaningful variance left. The factor model must then be rotated for analysis.\n\nCanonical factor analysis, also called Rao's canonical factoring, is a different method of computing the same model as PCA, which uses the principal axis method. Canonical factor analysis seeks factors which have the highest canonical correlation with the observed variables. Canonical factor analysis is unaffected by arbitrary rescaling of the data.\n\nCommon factor analysis, also called principal factor analysis (PFA) or principal axis factoring (PAF), seeks the least number of factors which can account for the common variance (correlation) of a set of variables.\n\nImage factoring is based on the correlation matrix of predicted variables rather than actual variables, where each variable is predicted from the others using multiple regression.\n\nAlpha factoring is based on maximizing the reliability of factors, assuming variables are randomly sampled from a universe of variables. All other methods assume cases to be sampled and variables fixed.\n\nFactor regression model is a combinatorial model of factor model and regression model; or alternatively, it can be viewed as the hybrid factor model, whose factors are partially known.\n\nFactor loadings: Commonality is the square of standardized outer loading of an item. Analogous to Pearson's r, the squared factor loading is the percent of variance in that indicator variable explained by the factor. To get the percent of variance in all the variables accounted for by each factor, add the sum of the squared factor loadings for that factor (column) and divide by the number of variables. (Note the number of variables equals the sum of their variances as the variance of a standardized variable is 1.) This is the same as dividing the factor's eigenvalue by the number of variables.\n\nInterpreting factor loadings: By one rule of thumb in confirmatory factor analysis, loadings should be .7 or higher to confirm that independent variables identified a priori are represented by a particular factor, on the rationale that the .7 level corresponds to about half of the variance in the indicator being explained by the factor. However, the .7 standard is a high one and real-life data may well not meet this criterion, which is why some researchers, particularly for exploratory purposes, will use a lower level such as .4 for the central factor and .25 for other factors. In any event, factor loadings must be interpreted in the light of theory, not by arbitrary cutoff levels.\n\nIn oblique rotation, one may examine both a pattern matrix and a structure matrix. The structure matrix is simply the factor loading matrix as in orthogonal rotation, representing the variance in a measured variable explained by a factor on both a unique and common contributions basis. The pattern matrix, in contrast, contains coefficients which just represent unique contributions. The more factors, the lower the pattern coefficients as a rule since there will be more common contributions to variance explained. For oblique rotation, the researcher looks at both the structure and pattern coefficients when attributing a label to a factor. Principles of oblique rotation can be derived from both cross entropy and its dual entropy.\n\nCommunality: The sum of the squared factor loadings for all factors for a given variable (row) is the variance in that variable accounted for by all the factors, and this is called the communality. The communality measures the percent of variance in a given variable explained by all the factors jointly and may be interpreted as the reliability of the indicator in the context of the factors being posited.\n\nSpurious solutions: If the communality exceeds 1.0, there is a spurious solution, which may reflect too small a sample or the choice to extract too many or too few factors.\n\nUniqueness of a variable: The variability of a variable minus its communality.\n\nEigenvalues/characteristic roots: Eigenvalues measure the amount of variation in the total sample accounted for by each factor. The ratio of eigenvalues is the ratio of explanatory importance of the factors with respect to the variables. If a factor has a low eigenvalue, then it is contributing little to the explanation of variances in the variables and may be ignored as less important than the factors with higher eigenvalues. \n\nExtraction sums of squared loadings: Initial eigenvalues and eigenvalues after extraction (listed by SPSS as \"Extraction Sums of Squared Loadings\") are the same for PCA extraction, but for other extraction methods, eigenvalues after extraction will be lower than their initial counterparts. SPSS also prints \"Rotation Sums of Squared Loadings\" and even for PCA, these eigenvalues will differ from initial and extraction eigenvalues, though their total will be the same.\n\nFactor scores (also called component scores in PCA): are the scores of each case (row) on each factor (column). To compute the factor score for a given case for a given factor, one takes the case's standardized score on each variable, multiplies by the corresponding loadings of the variable for the given factor, and sums these products. Computing factor scores allows one to look for factor outliers. Also, factor scores may be used as variables in subsequent modeling. (Explained from PCA not from Factor Analysis perspective).\n\nResearchers wish to avoid such subjective or arbitrary criteria for factor retention as \"it made sense to me\". A number of objective methods have been developed to solve this problem, allowing users to determine an appropriate range of solutions to investigate. Methods may not agree. For instance, the parallel analysis may suggest 5 factors while Velicer's MAP suggests 6, so the researcher may request both 5 and 6-factor solutions and discuss each in terms of their relation to external data and theory.\n\nHorn's parallel analysis (PA): A Monte-Carlo based simulation method that compares the observed eigenvalues with those obtained from uncorrelated normal variables. A factor or component is retained if the associated eigenvalue is bigger than the 95th percentile of the distribution of eigenvalues derived from the random data. PA is one of the most recommended rules for determining the number of components to retain, but many programs fail to include this option (a notable exception being R ). However, Formann provided both theoretical and empirical evidence that its application might not be appropriate in many cases since its performance is considerably influenced by sample size, item discrimination, and type of correlation coefficient.\n\nVelicer's (1976) MAP test “involves a complete principal components analysis followed by the examination of a series of matrices of partial correlations” (p. 397). The squared correlation for Step “0” (see Figure 4) is the average squared off-diagonal correlation for the unpartialed correlation matrix. On Step 1, the first principal component and its associated items are partialed out. Thereafter, the average squared off-diagonal correlation for the subsequent correlation matrix is then computed for Step 1. On Step 2, the first two principal components are partialed out and the resultant average squared off-diagonal correlation is again computed. The computations are carried out for k minus one step (k representing the total number of variables in the matrix). Thereafter, all of the average squared correlations for each step are lined up and the step number in the analyses that resulted in the lowest average squared partial correlation determines the number of components or factors to retain. By this method, components are maintained as long as the variance in the correlation matrix represents systematic variance, as opposed to residual or error variance. Although methodologically akin to principal components analysis, the MAP technique has been shown to perform quite well in determining the number of factors to retain in multiple simulation studies. This procedure is made available through SPSS's user interface. See Courtney (2013) for guidance.\n\nKaiser criterion: The Kaiser rule is to drop all components with eigenvalues under 1.0 – this being the eigenvalue equal to the information accounted for by an average single item. The Kaiser criterion is the default in SPSS and most statistical software but is not recommended when used as the sole cut-off criterion for estimating the number of factors as it tends to over-extract factors. A variation of this method has been created where a researcher calculates confidence intervals for each eigenvalue and retains only factors which have the entire confidence interval greater than 1.0.\n\nScree plot:\nThe Cattell scree test plots the components as the X axis and the corresponding eigenvalues as the Y-axis. As one moves to the right, toward later components, the eigenvalues drop. When the drop ceases and the curve makes an elbow toward less steep decline, Cattell's scree test says to drop all further components after the one starting the elbow. This rule is sometimes criticised for being amenable to researcher-controlled \"\". That is, as picking the \"elbow\" can be subjective because the curve has multiple elbows or is a smooth curve, the researcher may be tempted to set the cut-off at the number of factors desired by their research agenda.\n\nVariance explained criteria: Some researchers simply use the rule of keeping enough factors to account for 90% (sometimes 80%) of the variation. Where the researcher's goal emphasizes parsimony (explaining variance with as few factors as possible), the criterion could be as low as 50%.\n\nThe unrotated output maximizes variance accounted for by the first and subsequent factors, and forces the factors to be orthogonal. This data-compression comes at the cost of having most items load on the early factors, and usually, of having many items load substantially on more than one factor. Rotation serves to make the output more understandable, by seeking so-called \"Simple Structure\": A pattern of loadings where each item loads strongly on only one of the factors, and much more weakly on the other factors. Rotations can be orthogonal or oblique (allowing the factors to correlate).\n\nVarimax rotation is an orthogonal rotation of the factor axes to maximize the variance of the squared loadings of a factor (column) on all the variables (rows) in a factor matrix, which has the effect of differentiating the original variables by extracted factor. Each factor will tend to have either large or small loadings of any particular variable. A varimax solution yields results which make it as easy as possible to identify each variable with a single factor. This is the most common rotation option. However, the orthogonality (i.e., independence) of factors is often an unrealistic assumption. Oblique rotations are inclusive of orthogonal rotation, and for that reason, oblique rotations are a preferred method. Allowing for factors that are correlated with one another is especially applicable in psychometric research, since attitudes, opinions, and intellectual abilities tend to be correlated, and since it would be unrealistic in many situations to assume otherwise.\n\nQuartimax rotation is an orthogonal alternative which minimizes the number of factors needed to explain each variable. This type of rotation often generates a general factor on which most variables are loaded to a high or medium degree. Such a factor structure is usually not helpful to the research purpose.\n\nEquimax rotation is a compromise between varimax and quartimax criteria.\n\nDirect oblimin rotation is the standard method when one wishes a non-orthogonal (oblique) solution – that is, one in which the factors are allowed to be correlated. This will result in higher eigenvalues but diminished interpretability of the factors. See below.\n\nPromax rotation is an alternative non-orthogonal (oblique) rotation method which is computationally faster than the direct oblimin method and therefore is sometimes used for very large datasets.\n\nCharles Spearman pioneered the use of factor analysis in the field of psychology and is sometimes credited with the invention of factor analysis. He discovered that school children's scores on a wide variety of seemingly unrelated subjects were positively correlated, which led him to postulate that a general mental ability, or \"g\", underlies and shapes human cognitive performance. His postulate now enjoys broad support in the field of intelligence research, where it is known as the \"g\" theory.\n\nRaymond Cattell expanded on Spearman's idea of a two-factor theory of intelligence after performing his own tests and factor analysis. He used a multi-factor theory to explain intelligence. Cattell's theory addressed alternative factors in intellectual development, including motivation and psychology. Cattell also developed several mathematical methods for adjusting psychometric graphs, such as his \"scree\" test and similarity coefficients. His research led to the development of his theory of fluid and crystallized intelligence, as well as his 16 Personality Factors theory of personality. Cattell was a strong advocate of factor analysis and psychometrics. He believed that all theory should be derived from research, which supports the continued use of empirical observation and objective testing to study human intelligence.\n\nFactor analysis is used to identify \"factors\" that explain a variety of results on different tests. For example, intelligence research found that people who get a high score on a test of verbal ability are also good on other tests that require verbal abilities. Researchers explained this by using factor analysis to isolate one factor, often called crystallized intelligence or verbal intelligence, which represents the degree to which someone is able to solve problems involving verbal skills.\n\nFactor analysis in psychology is most often associated with intelligence research. However, it also has been used to find factors in a broad range of domains such as personality, attitudes, beliefs, etc. It is linked to psychometrics, as it can assess the validity of an instrument by finding if the instrument indeed measures the postulated factors.\n\n\n\nWhile exploratory factor analysis and principal component analysis are treated as synonymous techniques in some fields of statistics, this has been criticised (e.g. Fabrigar et al., 1999; Suhr, 2009). In factor analysis, the researcher makes the assumption that an underlying causal model exists, whereas PCA is simply a variable reduction technique. Researchers have argued that the distinctions between the two techniques may mean that there are objective benefits for preferring one over the other based on the analytic goal. If the factor model is incorrectly formulated or the assumptions are not met, then factor analysis will give erroneous results. Factor analysis has been used successfully where adequate understanding of the system permits good initial model formulations. Principal component analysis employs a mathematical transformation to the original data with no assumptions about the form of the covariance matrix. The aim of PCA is to determine a few linear combinations of the original variables that can be used to summarize the data set without losing much information.\n\nFabrigar et al. (1999) address a number of reasons used to suggest that principal components analysis is not equivalent to factor analysis:\n\n\nFactor analysis takes into account the random error that is inherent in measurement, whereas PCA fails to do so. This point is exemplified by Brown (2009), who indicated that, in respect to the correlation matrices involved in the calculations:\n\nFor this reason, Brown (2009) recommends using factor analysis when theoretical ideas about relationships between variables exist, whereas PCA should be used if the goal of the researcher is to explore patterns in their data.\n\nThe differences between principal components analysis and factor analysis are further illustrated by Suhr (2009):\n\nThe basic steps are:\n\nThe data collection stage is usually done by marketing research professionals. Survey questions ask the respondent to rate a product sample or descriptions of product concepts on a range of attributes. Anywhere from five to twenty attributes are chosen. They could include things like: ease of use, weight, accuracy, durability, colourfulness, price, or size. The attributes chosen will vary depending on the product being studied. The same question is asked about all the products in the study. The data for multiple products is coded and input into a statistical program such as R, SPSS, SAS, Stata, STATISTICA, JMP, and SYSTAT.\n\nThe analysis will isolate the underlying factors that explain the data using a matrix of associations. Factor analysis is an interdependence technique. The complete set of interdependent relationships is examined. There is no specification of dependent variables, independent variables, or causality. Factor analysis assumes that all the rating data on different attributes can be reduced down to a few important dimensions. This reduction is possible because some attributes may be related to each other. The rating given to any one attribute is partially the result of the influence of other attributes. The statistical algorithm deconstructs the rating (called a raw score) into its various components, and reconstructs the partial scores into underlying factor scores. The degree of correlation between the initial raw score and the final factor score is called a \"factor loading\".\n\n\n\nFactor analysis has also been widely used in physical sciences such as geochemistry, hydrochemistry, astrophysics and cosmology, as well as biological sciences, such as ecology, molecular biology and biochemistry.\n\nIn groundwater quality management, it is important to relate the spatial distribution of different chemical\nparameters to different possible sources, which have different chemical signatures. For example, a sulfide mine is likely to be associated with high levels of acidity, dissolved sulfates and transition metals. These signatures can be identified as factors through R-mode factor analysis, and the location of possible sources can be suggested by contouring the factor scores.\n\nIn geochemistry, different factors can correspond to different mineral associations, and thus to mineralisation.\n\nFactor analysis can be used for summarizing high-density oligonucleotide DNA microarrays data at probe level for Affymetrix GeneChips. In this case, the latent variable corresponds to the RNA concentration in a sample.\n\nFactor analysis has been implemented in several statistical analysis programs since the 1980s:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3431632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3431632", "title": "Félicien Kabuga", "text": "Félicien Kabuga\n\nFélicien Kabuga (born 1935) is a Rwandan businessman, accused of bankrolling and participating in the Rwandan genocide.\n\nKabuga was born in Muniga, in the commune of Mukarange, prefecture of Byumba, present-day Rwanda. Kabuga amassed his wealth by owning tea farms in northern Rwanda, among other business ventures. A multimillionaire, he was closely connected to Juvénal Habyarimana's MRND party and the Akazu, an informal group of Hutu extremists from northern Rwanda that strongly contributed to the Rwandan genocide.\n\nKabuga was also allegedly heavily involved in the founding and bankrolling of RTLM, as well as Kangura magazine. In 1993, at an RTLM fundraising meeting organised by the MRND, Felicien Kabuga allegedly publicly defined the purpose of RTLM as the defence of Hutu Power. During the ICTR's so-called \"media trial\", former RTLM presenter Georges Ruggiu named Kabuga as the \"Chairman Director-general\" of the station, with duties such as \"presiding over RTLM\" and \"representing RTLM.\"\n\nFrom January 1993 to March 1994, a total of 500,000 machetes were imported into Rwanda, statistically one for every three adult Hutus in the country. Kabuga has been named as one of the main importers of these machetes.\n\nKabuga is married to Josephine Mukazitoni. Two of their daughters are married to two of Habyarimana's sons.\n\nOn 29 August 1998, the prosecutor of the United Nations International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, Carla Del Ponte indicted Kabuga. In the amended indictment dated 1 October 2004, prosecutor Hassan Jallow charged Kabuga with:\n\nIn June 1994, after Rwanda was conquered by the RPF, Kabuga fled the country. He first attempted to enter Switzerland, but was ordered to leave. He went to Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and was later believed to be residing in Nairobi, Kenya.\n\nIn September 1995, before any indictment and before he was named as a suspected planner of the genocide, Kabuga registered and ran a business named 'Nshikabem Agency' in Nairobi, operating out of the Kilimani area located along Nairobi’s Lenana Road.\n\nIn a speech given on 28 August 2006 during his visit to Kenya, then US Senator Barack Obama accused Kenya of \"allowing him [Kabuga] to purchase safe haven.\" The Kenyan government denied these allegations and described Obama's allegation regarding Kabuga as \"an insult to the people of this country.\"\n\nAccording to June 2008 reports by a Norwegian-based blogger calling himself African Press International (API), Kabuga was in hiding in Oslo, and might be seeking to turn himself in. Authorities dismissed this claim as a hoax.\n\nKTN news network in Kenya reported on 14 June 2008 that Kabuga had been arrested by Kenya Police the day before and was being held at Gigiri Police Station in Nairobi. Later, the suspect was found to be a local university lecturer, not Kabuga as previously thought, and released. It is suspected that Kabuga is in Kenya, and is believed to be running businesses and enjoying protection from either the Kenyan government or some influential figures within the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1533035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1533035", "title": "Grant Thornton LLP", "text": "Grant Thornton LLP\n\nGrant Thornton LLP is the American member firm of Grant Thornton International, the sixth largest accounting network in the world by combined fee income. Grant Thornton LLP is the sixth largest U.S. accounting and advisory organization. The firm operates 58 offices across the US with approximately 7,000 employees, 550 partners, and produces annual revenue in excess of US$1.74 billion.\n\nHeadquartered in Chicago, Grant Thornton LLP has three service lines: audit, tax, and advisory services. Specific advisory services and areas of expertise include: Sarbanes-Oxley compliance, mergers and acquisitions advice, tax, and business valuations. Target industries include construction, distribution, energy, financial services, food and beverage, health care, hospitality and restaurants, life sciences, manufacturing, not-for-profit organizations, private equity, public sector, real estate, retail, technology, and transportation.\n\nIn 1924, Alexander Richardson Grant, a 26 year old senior accountant with Ernst & Ernst (later Ernst & Young) decided to leave the firm and start his own business with William O’Brien. Alexander Grant & Co. was built in Chicago and it provided services as a middle market firm. The firm was growing rapidly and nationally under the guidance of several new leaders during the next three decades.\n\nIn 1961, the company established its national office in Chicago and earned net revenue of more than $5 million. During this time, a competitive firm that was also committed to providing services to middle market established in Europe, and this firm later became known as Binder Dijker Otte & Co. (BDO).\n\nDuring the mid-1960s, the firm decided to expand its business internationally. In 1969, Alexander Grant & Co. merged with companies from Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom to form an organization called Alexander Grant Tansley Witt.\n\nBy 1980, Alexander Grant & Co. had joined with 49 international accounting firms, including a UK firm named Thornton Baker, and formed a professional global network, Grant Thornton International.\n\nIn 1985, Alexander Grant & Co. merged with Fox & Co. and became the ninth largest accounting firm in the United States, just behind the nation’s \"Big Eight\" firms. At that time, the company had 80 offices and more than 3,000 employees.\n\nIn 1986, Alexander Grant & Co. changed its name to Grant Thornton, resulted from its affiliation with the United Kingdom firm Thornton Baker, which also changed its name to Grant Thornton.\n\nIn 2002, Grant Thornton acquired 7 offices, 43 partners and 396 employees from ex-Arthur Andersen.\n\nIn June 2014, Grant Thornton announced J. Michael McGuire as the firm’s new chief executive officer.\n\nToday, Grant Thornton is the sixth largest accounting firm in the United States and has 58 offices nationwide with more than 550 partners and 7,000 employees. Its revenue for fiscal year 2017 is $1.74 billion.\n\nGrant Thornton offers three main service lines\n\nTax desks is developed by Grant Thornton US and it connects other member firms in different countries to help clients grow their business and solve their common problems in the global market. Grant Thornton US has established the desks between the United States and the UK, the United States and China, and the United States and Japan.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56547266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56547266", "title": "Harold Caro", "text": "Harold Caro\n\nHarold David Caro (1 September 1887 – 10 June 1964) was the 23rd mayor of Hamilton, New Zealand and a Hamilton businessman. He was awarded the OBE in 1950. \n\nHe was born in Christchurch to Mrs Lewis Cato. He was educated in Parnell, Auckland and was employed by P Hayman of Auckland. Then he was a partner in Caro Bros, Auckland from 1910 to 1923. In 1923 he founded Caros GBS or Great Bargain Stores in Hamilton. \n\nHe was on the Hamilton Borough Council from 1931 to 1953, and was Mayor of Hamilton from 1938 to 1953, when he was defeated. He was chairman of the Waikato Hospital Board from 1948 to 1953, and chairman of the Waikato Patriotic Fund Board from 1939 to 1954. He was re-elected to the Hamilton City Council in 1959. \n\nCaro contested the seat of Hamilton at the 1935 general election for the anti-Labour Democrat Party, polling third with 20% of the vote.\n\nHe married Rubina Ballin in 1916. In 1961 he was living in Raglan. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "44499347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44499347", "title": "Henri Gradis", "text": "Henri Gradis\n\nMoïse Henri Gradis (30 July 1823 – 23 January 1905) was a French businessman and historian.\n\nMoïse Henri Gradis was born on 30 July 1823 in Bordeaux.\nHe came from a family of prominent Bordeaux merchants who had flourished in the 18th century but were ruined by the French Revolution and the insurrections in Santo Domingo and Martinique.\nHis parents were Benjamin Gradis (1789–1858) and Laure Sarah Rodrigues Henriquès (1803–46).\nIn 1853 he married Claire Brandame (1835–1925).\nTheir son was Raoul Gradis (1861–1943).\nTheir daughter Emma Gradis married Georges Schwob d'Héricourt in 1889.\n\nThe \"Maison Gradis\" recovered, and by 1892 was selling sugar from several producers in Bordeaux, Nantes and Marseille.\nHenri Gradis was deputy mayor of Bordeaux in 1864 and 1876.\nHe was also author of a history of Bordeaux and several other literary works.\nHis history of the 1848 revolution won praise for its accuracy and lack of bias.\nMoïse Henri Gradis died in Paris in 1905.\nHe was succeeded at the \"Maison Gradis\" by his son Raoul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18175797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18175797", "title": "Huntington family", "text": "Huntington family\n\nHuntington is the surname of three prominent families from the United States of America. The first was active in the eastern region; the second founded the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormon) and pioneered and founded the State of Utah with the Brigham Young Company; the third was active on both coasts and the regions linking them. All three lines originate with the Simon and Margaret Huntington family which emigrated from Great Britain in 1633 and is among the oldest immigrant British Founding Families in North America. Elijah Baldwin Huntington speculates that the genetic line descends from the Earl of Huntingdon of Scotland and Great Britain. Early stage genetic testing of Huntington descendants support this theory. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55913449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55913449", "title": "Introductory diving", "text": "Introductory diving\n\nIntroductory diving, also known as trial diving and resort diving are dives where people without diver training or certification can experience scuba diving under the guidance of a recreational diving instructor. Introductory diving is an opportunity for interested people to find out by practical experience if they would be interested in greater involvement in scuba diving. For scuba instructors and diving schools is it an opportunity to acquire new customers. An introductory diving experience is much less time-consuming and costly than the completion of autonomous diver training, but has little lasting value, as it is an experience program only, for which no certification is issued. Introductory scuba diving experiences are intended to introduce people to recreational diving, and increase the potential client base of dive shops to include people who do not have the time or inclination to complete an entry level certification program.\n\nParticipants are usually required to read and sign waivers to minimise liability of the program provider, and to provide a declaration that they do not suffer from any medical condition listed that would be an unacceptable risk for diving. Prior to the dive itself, an instructor teaches essential theoretical knowledge, so that the participants can dive with a low level of risk, and with informed consent. After putting on the necessary diving equipment, the participant enters the water under close supervision of the instructor. First of all, breathing from the scuba regulator is practiced at the water surface. At shallow water depth, some scuba skills are learned: Clearing the diving mask, removing the regulator from the mouth and replacing and clearing it of water. These two skills are essential for the safety of the participants. Afterwards, there may be an opportunity to either play underwater games or explore the surroundings in shallow water. Trial diving usually takes about two to four hours.\n\nThe participant learns the basic minimum safety guidelines and skills needed to dive under the direct supervision of a diving professional. If an open water dive is included, a few more basic skills will be practiced in confined water. The course includes:\n\nUsually the introductory diving first takes place in \"confined water\", which usually means a swimming pool or a very shallow and safe place in a lake or the sea. Depending on the offer, after the first dive in confined water, a second or further shallow dives may be done in suitable confined or open water.\n\nPeople can go directly from high altitude to scuba diving, but should not scuba dive then go up in altitude without allowing an interval, depending on the time and depth of the dive, to reduce risk of decompression sickness. The Divers Alert Network (DAN) Flying after Diving workshop of 2002 recommended a 12-hour surface interval for uncertified individuals who took part in an introductory scuba experience before flying or ascending to an altitude greater than, or cabin pressure less than, an altitude equivalent of .\n\nThe diving school may ask that the participants of the trial dive prove their medical fitness to dive with a medical certificate, but more commonly they will use a standardized form for the participant to declare their self assessment of fitness to dive.\n\nFrom the age of 8 years it is possible to take part in an introductory dive, but some providers require a greater age. The participant should be able to swim at least without any buoyancy aid.\n\nThe international standard ISO 11121 standardizes the minimum requirements for an \"Introductory Training Program\". Despite the standardization, the title and contents of the program vary depending on the provider and their membership of a diver certification agency. The following programs are based on ISO 11121.\n\nThe CMAS Introductory Scuba Experience participants should be at least 14 years of age and able to swim. The \"Introductory Scuba Experience\" includes a theory lesson, a confined water dive where several diving skills are practiced and an open water dive to a maximum depth of .\n\nParticipants in a NAUI Try scuba / Passport Diver program must be at least 10 years old. However, it is possible to take part in a confined water dive from the age of 8 years. The \"Try scuba\" program includes a theory lesson and a confined water dive where participants practice several dive skills and one or more open water dives. The first open water dive has recommended depth limit of . For further dives there is a limit of . Participants who have completed two open water dives will receive an \"NAUI Passport Diver\" confirmation. It enables them to participate in further open water introductory dives later on, guided by a NAUI instructors, without repeating the confined water dive.\n\nThe \"Tandem Diver\" program is an alternative to the \"NAUI Try scuba\" and differs mainly by the individual supervision of the participant and lack of the opportunities offered by the \"NAUI Passport Diver\".\n\nParticipants in a PADI Discover Scuba Diving program should be at least 10 years old and should be able to swim. The \"Discover Scuba Diving\" program includes a theory lesson and a confined water dive where basic diving skills are practiced. Afterwards, one or more directly supervised open water dives can be done to a maximum depth of . Discover Scuba Diving includes the theoretical content and skills of the first lesson of the PADI Open Water Diver course, and this experience may be credited as the first confined water dive of a PADI Open Water Diver course if done within for one year,\n\nThe PADI Discover Scuba Diving course allows for repetitive diving experiences within a time limit at the discretion of the dive instructor and dive shop. This is a common request for people who try diving, then want to repeat the activity (often at a different location).\n\nThe \"Bubblemaker\" program is a trial dive in the swimming pool for children from 8 years of age. The participants are introduced to scuba diving in a playful way by a scuba instructor. The maximum allowed diving depth is .\n\nParticipants must be at least 8 years old. The \"Try scuba\" course takes place in confined water and includes a theory session. The participant may be submerged to a maximum depth of .\n\nParticipants must be at least 10 years old. SSI \"Try Scuba Diving\" is similar to the Try Scuba (Pool) program. The main difference is that it includes an open water dive and can be credited towards an SSI Open Water Diver course later. For open water dives there is a depth limit of .\n\nThere are programs for advanced divers that are also called introductory diving. These include programs that allow an experienced diver to try out technical diving, rebreather, or cave diving.\n"}
{"id": "42317021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42317021", "title": "James A. Kelly Jr.", "text": "James A. Kelly Jr.\n\nJames A. Kelly Jr. (May 11, 1926 – August 9, 2013) was an American politician who served as a Democrat in the Massachusetts House of Representatives from 1959 to 1965 and the Massachusetts Senate from 1965 to 1979. In 1983, he was convicted of extortion.\n\nKelly was born on May 11, 1926 in Worcester, Massachusetts to James and Florence Kelly. During World War II he served in the United States Navy. He attended Becker Junior College and in 1950 earned a Bachelor of Applied Arts from Clark University. While at Clark, Kelly met and married Elisabeth Kelly. He became a Certified Public Accountant and established a practice in Leicester, Massachusetts.\n\nPrior to becoming a state legislator, Kelly served one term on the Leicester School Committee and was clerk and treasurer of the Oxford – Rochdale Sewer District.\n\nIn 1958, Kelly was elected to the Massachusetts House of Representatives by defeating Republican incumbent John E. Riley 6456 votes to 6045. Six years later he ran for the 4th Worcester District Senate seat that was being vacated by Joseph Gibney. He won a five-way Democratic primary with 37% of the vote and won the general election with 66%.\n\nFrom 1965 to 1971, Kelly chaired the Joint Committee on State Administration. In 1966, he also chaired the Special Committee Special Senate Committee to investigate the activities of the commissioner of administration, John J. McCarthy. In this role, Kelly had an opportunity to bring down the administration of popular Republican Governor John A. Volpe. However, Kelly, according to a Volpe aide, assisted the governor's team by keeping them abreast of what was going on behind the scenes and assisting them in planning their strategy. Many, including fellow committee member Beryl Cohen, believed that Kelly leaked a damaging report to the Volpe administration, which gave it time to counterattack. After the investigation, Kelly enjoyed a close relationship with Volpe's Commissioner of Administration and Finance Anthony DeFalco and was able to get patronage from the Volpe's administration. In 1971, Kelly backed Kevin B. Harrington for the Senate Presidency over Ways and Means Committee Chairman James F. Burke. Harrington defeated Burke and chose Kelly to replace Burke as Chairman of the Senate Ways and Means Committee, one of the most powerful positions in the legislature.\n\nDuring his tenure in the legislature, Kelly was described as businesslike, accessible, and accommodating and was the only legislative leader to openly describe himself as a liberal. He increased funding for existing social welfare programs and budgeted money for new ones, eliminated funding for the Massachusetts State Police's Subversive Activities Control Unit, supported of constructing a new stadium, opposed using state funds to pay for desegregation in Boston Public Schools, and played a major role in establishing the University of Massachusetts Medical School in Worcester. Kelly was honored by Massachusetts Fair Share, Public Interest Research Group, and Americans for Democratic Action for his work for the poor, elderly, and disabled. In recognition of his power as Chairman of Ways and Means and his effectiveness as a member of the Senate leadership, Kelly was widely known as the \"Wizard of Oxford\".\n\nIn 1976, federal prosecutors sought to have Kelly named as an unindicted co-conspirator for his role in the MBM scandal. According to Anthony Mansueto, one of MBM's senior vice presidents, Kelly told him that he had talked with Senator Joseph DiCarlo, chairman of a special legislative committee investigating one of the company's contracts, and \"For $100,000, MBM's problems could be solved\". However, Judge Walter Jay Skinner ruled that the prosecution had failed to link Kelly to the conspiracy and ordered that all references to him be removed from the indictment (Kelly's name was replaced with \"John Doe\" in the indictment). During the MBM investigation, it was also alleged that Kelly had endorsed a $2,000 check from MBM to Boston Mayor Kevin White and that Kelly himself had received a $1,000 from MBM. Campaign contributions from corporations were illegal in Massachusetts. Kelly denied the allegations and the state declined to prosecute.\n\nOn December 15, 1977, Kelly announced that he would not run for reelection in 1978. He said that although the MBM scandal had no effect on him in his district, it likely meant that he could never advance in the Senate leadership. It was also possible that William Bulger, who was likely to become the next Senate President, would not allow Kelly to remain as Ways and Means Chairman.\n\nAfter his departure from the Senate, Kelly moved to Miami Beach, Florida.\n\nKelly and his wife had eight children (five sons and three daughters). One of his daughters died as an infant.\n\nIn 1970, Kelly and his wife separated. After their separation, Kelly moved to the Jamaicaway Towers in Boston. While residing in Boston he was known to have breakfast at the Ritz, drive a Mercedes-Benz, go out with young women, and play a daily game of squash at the Harvard Club of Boston.\n\nIn 1980, Worcester architect Frank Masiello testified before the Special Commission Concerning State and County Buildings that his company paid Kelly's accounting firm a $500 monthly retainer after Kelly threatened to have his firm's contracts with the state cancelled. The payments allegedly began in January 1971 when Kelly became chairman of the Ways and Means Committee and ended in September 1976. He also stated that his company paid for Kelly's travel, entertainment, and YMCA memberships. Kelly's firm received a total of $9,500, but never performed any work for Masiello and Associates. James L. Bauchat of Masiello and Associates' parent company Kassuba Development Corp., testified that Kelly demanded $10,000 in exchange for state design contracts. Kelly appeared before the Commission on June 27, 1980, pleaded the Fifth Amendment and refused to answer any questions.\n\nOn September 23, 1980, Kelly was indicted on charges of extorting $34,500 from Masiello and Associates. The indictment was based on the Hobbs Act, which makes it illegal for a public official to solicit money from people trying to influence his official conduct. On September 30 he pleaded not guilty and was released by United States magistrate judge Peter W. Princi on $10,000 bond. His trial began on March 18, 1981 and ended on April 29. After eleven hours of deliberation, the jury remained deadlocked 11 to 1 for conviction. Judge Joseph L. Tauro declared a mistrial.\n\nBefore the retrial, the prosecution attempted to have Tauro removed from the case, citing his pro-defense rulings during the trial and having received assistance from Kelly when Kelly was chair of a committee investigating the Volpe administration and Tauro was Volpe's chief legal counsel. The United States Court of Appeals ruled that there was no legal basis to bar Tauro from presiding over the retrial. Also prior to the retrial, two of the prosecution's witnesses had committed perjury.\n\nKelly's retrial began on November 15, 1982, and ended on December 22. The next day, the jury found Kelly guilty of extortion. On January 20, 1983, Judge Rya W. Zobel sentenced him to two years in prison. He was allowed to remain out of prison until the outcome of his appeal, which was rejected on December 1, 1983. Kelly then sought to have his sentence delayed until April 1984 so he could complete his studies for a master's degree in business administration at Florida International University. The request was denied and Kelly began his sentence in March 1984. He was incarcerated in Federal Prison Camp, Eglin.\n\nKelly spent his later years in Colorado Springs, Colorado. He died on August 9, 2013 in Aurora, Colorado, from complications following a hip fracture. He was buried in Leicester, Massachusetts, near his parents and daughter.\n"}
{"id": "43480737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43480737", "title": "John Johnstone (businessman)", "text": "John Johnstone (businessman)\n\nJohn Johnstone (born 1881) was a British businessman and rider. He was the taipan of the Jardine, Matheson & Co., member of the Shanghai Municipal Council and Legislative Council of Hong Kong.\n\nHe was the head of the Jardine, Matheson & Co. as well as director of numerous companies. He was member of the Shanghai Municipal Council and the Legislative Council of Hong Kong.\n\nHe was a keen rider and bore the reputation of being the best rider East of the Suez. He succeeded in winning the Jockey Cup on a pony named Ben-y-Gloe belonging to C. H. Ross, the former taipan of Jardines when he first went to Hong Kong in 1903. In 1904, he won the Professional Cup on a pony named Runaway Girl, purchased from W. A. Cruickshank. From 1903 to 1919, he rode in 1,178 races, winning 334, securing 192 seconds and 186 thirds, being unplaced 466 times, excluding the record of minor events such as Off Days or Gymkhanas. He was also the President of the St. Andrew's Society.\n\nHe left Hong Kong on 31 March 1921 for home by the \"Empress of Asia\".\n"}
{"id": "5507596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5507596", "title": "Junior Bridgeman", "text": "Junior Bridgeman\n\nUlysses Lee \"Junior\" Bridgeman (born September 17, 1953) is an American businessman and former professional basketball player.\n\nBorn in East Chicago, Indiana, Bridgeman was a member of the 1971 East Chicago Washington High School Senators basketball team, which went undefeated (29-0) and won the Indiana state high school basketball championship. Among his teammates were his brother Sam, Pete Trgovich (who played at UCLA) and Tim Stoddard (N.C. State), who would go on to have success as a Major League Baseball pitcher.\n\nA tall guard/forward from the University of Louisville, Bridgeman was drafted by the Los Angeles Lakers in 1975 and immediately traded with Brian Winters, David Meyers and Elmore Smith to the Milwaukee Bucks for Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. Bridgeman went on to have a solid 12-year NBA career, spent mostly with the Bucks, and he scored 11,517 total points. Although he was a sixth man for most of his career, he averaged double figures in scoring for nine consecutive seasons. He played in 711 games for the Bucks, still the most in franchise history, although he started only 105 times.\n\nDuring the off-seasons of his playing career, Bridgeman used to work and learn the business model of Wendy's fast food restaurant franchise. After retiring from the NBA, he started owning various Wendy's and Chili's restaurants, and then sold them in 2016. In 2017, Bridgeman became a bottler for The Coca-Cola Company, and in 2018, he signed a letter of intent to buy bottling operations in Canada.\n\nBridgeman's no. 2 jersey was retired by the Milwaukee Bucks in 1988. He was inducted into the Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame in 1999.\n\nBridgeman is a member of Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity.\n\nIn late June 2016, Bridgeman was appointed to the University of Louisville Board of Trustees by Governor of Kentucky Matt Bevin following an administrative reorganization in which Bevin abolished the university's former governing board. The appointment of the new board, including Bridgeman, was challenged by the state's Attorney General Andy Beshear on grounds that the governor did not have the power to do so. He is a member of the Louisville megachurch Southeast Christian Church, which Bevin also attends.\n\n"}
{"id": "51281314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51281314", "title": "Kris Senanu", "text": "Kris Senanu\n\nKris Senanu (born July 12, 1973) is a businessman and entrepreneur from Ghana. He is currently the Managing Director of the Enterprise Division at Telkom Kenya and Chair of the Governing Council at the Kenya Institute of Management. He was also a key figure in AccessKenya Group's international growth by opening it on the Nairobi Securities Exchange as the first publicly listed ICT firm. He is also a venture capitalist and founder of investment company Blackrock Capital Investments, a company that owns entertainment clubs and African-themed restaurants in East Africa.\n\nKris Senanu attended USIU-A and Warwick University. In 2001, he assisted in co-founding AccessKenya Group, becoming the company's Chief operating officer in 2005, and subsequently its Managing Director. In 2016 AccessKenya Group became IS, and Senanu became its deputy CEO. He also led the strategic management of the public listing of AccessKenya Group on the Nairobi Securities Exchange Limited, which became the first listed ICT Company in the region. He is also Chairman of KeNIC and The Committee for the United States International University Africa, as well as Board Member of the Nairobi Securities Exchange. He is also founder and venture capitalist of investment company Blackrock Capital Investment.\n\n"}
{"id": "40595074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40595074", "title": "Lim Chin Tsong", "text": "Lim Chin Tsong\n\nLim Chin Tsong (; ) was a Burmese Chinese tycoon and merchant, with business interests ranging from rice to oil. Throughout his career, he served as the sole partner of Lim Soo Hean & Company, originally established by his father, a Chinese emigre to Burma.\n\nDuring his own lifetime he was known as the most successful Chinese merchant in Rangoon. He entertained the social elite of the city in lavish parties hosted at his residence, Chin Tsong Palace, and gave generously to charities, including a hospital, a temple, and several schools. In modern Yangon, he is mostly remembered for the sudden and mysterious circumstances of his bankruptcy and death.\n\nLim was born on October 28, 1867 to Lim Soo Hean (林仕興), a Chinese man of Hokkien origin who migrated from Xiamen to Burma in 1861, shortly after the family arrived in Burma from China. After arriving from China, his father apprenticed for a Chinese milling firm before beginning his own business, originally importing goods from China and the Straits Settlements. He later established a rice trading firm, \"Lim Soo Hean\" (林仕興商行). In 1886, Lim's father also began marketing oil, with Lim working as his assistant.\n\nLim's father, believing that his own poor English ability was hampering his ability to do business, sent Lim to the best English-language schools in Yangon. Lim attended Rangoon College and St. Paul's School (now BEHS No. 6 Botataung). He also spoke Chinese, but was not literate in the language.\n\nIn 1888 Lim's father died. Lim took over his father's company and expanded from the rice trade to petroleum. In 1891, he became the exclusive local agent of the Burmah Oil Company, handling the internal distribution of oil throughout Burma. After acquiring a fleet of steamships he also began exporting oil to Penang, Singapore, Hong Kong, Shantou and Xiamen. Lim played a prominent role in negotiating the oil company's rights to extract oil from properties in Upper Burma, and was rewarded with a small commission from every barrel produced from those wells.\n\nLim diversified his business interests into rubber plantations, cotton gins, peanut mills, and into earth metal extraction, including tin, copper, lead, wolfram and gold. Besides exporting oil, his steamships carried passengers, especially labourers from Fujian. Lim owned a match factory whose matches were favored by the viceroy of India, Lord Chelmsford.\n\nDuring the early 1900s, in which Lin was one of the most prominent merchants in Rangoon, he donated generously to schools and hospitals. Before 1910 a biographer noted that he led the local the Chinese community to contribute generously to the upkeep of a maternity hospital. In 1897 he donated the resources of his steamship company to have materials for Rangoon's Guanyin temple shipped from China. In 1905, Lim and his partners established Anglo-Chinese Boys' and Girls' Schools in Rangoon (中華義學). In 1907, Lim founded the Lim Chin Tsong School (林振宗中西學校). Lim's schools employed teachers hired from England, and the quality of education was good enough that some families from Hong Kong and Macau sent their children to be educated there. One of the goals of Lim's schools, by teaching Chinese students in English, was to increase the competitiveness of Chinese businessmen and professionals abroad.\n\nLim Chin Tsong maintained good relations with the social and economic elite of colonial Burma. He was made an honorary magistrate, sat on the Rangoon Municipal Committee, and served as a member of the Legislative Council of Burma. In 1919, he was awarded the Order of the British Empire for his fundraising efforts during World War I. The funds raised by Lim included his donation of a steamship, which entered service as the HMAT A49 \"Seang Choon\". The ship transported a regiment of Australian light horse to the battlefields of WWI in 1916. It was later sunk by a torpedo off the coast of Ireland on July 10, 1917. Lim owned the Rangoon Turf Club, a racing stable.\n\nLim's financial fortunes declined drastically following WWI. He had been in heavy debt since at least 1911, and by 1914 all of his properties and businesses were mortgaged. In 1915 he won a civil suit over the cancellation of a steam ship charter, but he used the money to import a Rolls-Royce Silver Ghost from England. In 1919 his lack of ability to repay what he owed to the Burmah Oil Company led the company to cease employing him as an agent. He also lost enough money through gambling and by making bad loans for his business associates to criticize him for it. Later in 1919, Lim took his family, relatives, and friends on a five-month vacation to England, where they lived and spent lavishly. Lim hoped that the value of the freight he carried back from England would be sufficient to clear his debts, but his hopes were not fulfilled.\n\nLim attempted to corner the local rice market in 1921. His resulting monopoly led to a sharp increase in the price of rice, which led the British government to ban the exportation of rice outside of India (which Burma was then a part of). Because of this ban, the rice market in Burma collapsed. By 1922 he was on the verge of bankruptcy. By 1923 he was evading arrest, never appearing in public while refusing to answer the door or answer phone calls. There was an application to the High Court of Burma asking that he be judged insolvent, the proceedings of which Lim did not attend. The court agreed to temporarily halt the trial and to renew efforts to arrest Lim, when he died suddenly in November 2, 1923.\n\nLim died in his sleep, possibly of a heart attack. At the time of his death he had been suffering from influenza and fever. Before his death he had been notified that the telephone company had threatened to cut his phone service due to non-payment of fees, and his resulting distress may have contributed to his death. Because of the timing of his death, some people speculated that he had committed suicide. His estate was declared insolvent on June 10, 1924, shortly following his death.\n\nBetween 1915 and 1918, Lim built a lavish residence in the Golden Valley area of Rangoon at a cost of over 2,000,000 rupees. The building includes a mixture of Eastern and Western architectural styles, and its five-story tower was built to resemble the Fu Xing Pavilion in the Summer Palace, in Beijing. Building material was imported from both China and Italy, and foreign artists were employed to decorate its interior. The most notable artists to work on the building included the English painters Dod and Ernest Procter. The fusion of Chinese and Western architectural elements was not unusual in other British colonies with strong Chinese communities (such as Penang and Melaka), but was unique in Rangoon.\n\nThe original name of the property was \"Mount Pleasant\", but after it construction the property became popularly known as \"Chin Tsong Palace\". After the construction of Chin Tsong Palace, Lim and his wife regularly threw lavish parties and entertained the social elite of Rangoon. The most notable guest entertained by Lim at the residence was Georges Clemenceau, who visited Burma in 1920.\n\nDuring the Japanese occupation of Burma, from 1941–45, the house was the headquarters for a Japanese radio station that broadcast propaganda, the \"All Burma Broadcasting Station\". Following Japan's defeat the house was owned by an Indian businessman, before being nationalized by the newly-independent Burmese government in 1950. After the Burmese government took ownership of the house, they turned it into a guesthouse and changed its official name to \"Kanbawza Yeiktha\". In the late 1960s the building was converted into a hostel for female students attending the Institute of Economics and the Rangoon Arts and Science University, which were nearby. Today, the house is used as an office and arts school by the Fine Arts Department of Myanmar's Ministry of Culture.\n\nIn 2015 the Chin Tsong Palace was designated a heritage site by Myanmar's Ministry of Culture. It is undergoing renovations and, as of 2017, remains open to the public. The renovations are scheduled to be completed in 2018, on the 100th anniversary of its construction. After the renovations, the Ministry of Culture plans to open the space as a cultural center.\n\nLim was married to Tan Guat Tean (Po U in Burmese). She was illiterate, required an assistant to write and read for her, and signed her name with an \"X\". The couple had 8 children, including Lim Kar Chang, Lim Kar Hin, Lim Kar Kim, Lim Kar Taik, Lim Kar Tye, and Lim Gaik Kee. His second eldest son, Lim Kar Hin, died on 11 November 1916, preceding his father.\n\nHe sent his sons to be educated in England. After Lim's death, many of his children left Burma, and his descendants now live in various Commonwealth countries, including Malaysia, Singapore, and Canada.\n\nLim and his family were generally popular during his later life. When his eldest son was married (in the newly-completed Chin Tsong Palace), all of the notable European and Eurasian residents of Rangoon attended. The day after the wedding, another wedding party was held in which all of the notable Burmese residents of Rangoon attended. Two days after the initial wedding, another party was held in which the notable Muslim members of the city attended. Finally, three days after the wedding, another party was held in which all of the notable Chinese people in Rangoon attended.\n\nAfter Lim Chin Tsong's death, Lim Kar Chang, Lim's eldest son, took over the management of his company. Lim Kar Chang attempted to ameliorate his father's debts partially through repossession of property and businesses and partially through applying to have them written off. Despite Lim's efforts, the legal ownership of his properties was still in the process of litigation by at least 1929. Lim's bank, Xie De Yuan (協德園), was acquired by Nam Hwa Bank, a Japanese-owned firm, after it went bankrupt.\n\nIn 1938, executives at the Burmah Oil Company discovered that Lim's widow, Tan Guat Tean, though still living in Chin Tsong Palace, was destitute. Reminded of the long association that had existed between Lim and the company in its early years, they arranged for a modest payment to be made to provide for her well-being, which she received in January 1938.\n\nDuring his lifetime Lim was known for kindness and generosity among the Chinese community in Rangoon, and he donated a percentage of his commissions to maintaining schools for Chinese students. Today, Lim is not well known in Myanmar, and those who do know him mostly know that he was very wealthy, but that he died in ignominious circumstances. Among the Sino-Burmese community of Yangon, Lim is remembered as a man whose fall was partially caused by his hubris: in China, an octagonal tower was only constructed by those with claims to imperial authority; by building his home in such a shape, believers in Chinese geomancy claim that he overstepped his place in the world and unwittingly caused his own demise. As a wealthy Chinese man from a colonial era, most modern Burmese people feel they have little connection to Lim.\n\nAfter Lim's death, many stories circulated orally among the residents of Yangon concerning the sudden circumstances of his financial ruin and death. According to popular lore, Lim ran a counterfeiting operation from a secret chamber under his estate, and the construction of his residence included a network of secret tunnels leading to Inya Lake, which were used to dispose of bodies. In popular legends, his sudden financial ruin is explained as being the result of a betrayal by a foreign wife employed by a police special branch, who uncovered his counterfeiting operation and reported him to the British authorities.\n\nPossibly corroborating these stories, a jockey living on Lim's estate, Thein Pe, claimed to have discovered Lim's counterfeiting operation shortly before his financial difficulties became acute, forcing Thein Pe to quickly pack his belongings and \"flee\". At the time of Lim's death, there was a foreign woman living on his estate who may have been close to him (\"Miss Hannah Boudeville\"). She went to court to challenge Lim's creditors' legal right to repossess her home, claiming that Lim had given the house to her as a gift.\n\n"}
{"id": "3349994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3349994", "title": "List of business terms", "text": "List of business terms\n\nThe following terms are in everyday use in financial regions, such as commercial business and the management of large organisations such as corporations.\n\n"}
{"id": "326913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326913", "title": "Maria Shriver", "text": "Maria Shriver\n\nMaria Owings Shriver (; born November 6, 1955)\nis an American journalist, author, and former First Lady of California. She has received a Peabody Award and was co-anchor for NBC's Emmy-winning coverage of the 1988 Summer Olympics. As executive producer of \"The Alzheimer's Project\", Shriver earned two Emmy Awards and an Academy of Television Arts & Sciences award for developing a \"television show with a conscience\". She is related to the Kennedy family; her mother, Eunice Kennedy Shriver, was a sister of John F. Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy, and Ted Kennedy. Shriver is currently a special anchor and correspondent for NBC News.\n\nShriver was born in Chicago, Illinois, the second child and only daughter of the politician Sargent Shriver and activist Eunice Kennedy Shriver. Shriver is a niece of United States President John F. Kennedy, U.S. Attorney General and U.S. Senator Robert F. Kennedy, U.S. Senator Ted Kennedy, and five other prominent siblings. A Roman Catholic, she is of mostly Irish and German descent.\n\nShriver attended Westland Middle School in Bethesda, Maryland, a suburb of Washington, D.C., and graduated in 1973 from Stone Ridge School of the Sacred Heart in Bethesda. She attended Manhattanville College for two years, then transferred and went on to receive a Bachelor of Arts degree in American studies from Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., in June 1977.\n\nIn her book \"Ten Things I Wish I'd Known Before I Went Out Into The Real World\" (2000), Shriver says that she became passionate about broadcast journalism after being sent to the back of the campaign plane with the press corps while volunteering for her father's 1972 U.S. vice presidential race, calling these orders \"the best thing that ever happened to me.\" After her journalism career began with KYW-TV in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, she co-anchored \"The CBS Morning News\" with Forrest Sawyer from August 1985 until August 1986, co-anchored NBC News's \"Sunday Today\" from 1987 until 1990. Shriver also served as Saturday anchor from 1989–1990 of \"NBC Nightly News\". She was a contributing anchor on \"Dateline NBC\" from 1992 until 2004. In August 2003, Shriver took an unpaid leave of absence from NBC News when her husband became a candidate in the 2003 California gubernatorial recall election.\n\nFollowing her husband's November 17, 2003, inauguration as the 38th Governor of California, she became the First Lady of California. She then returned to reporting, making two more appearances for \"Dateline NBC\".\n\nOn February 3, 2004, Shriver asked to be \"relieved of [her] duties at NBC News,\" citing concerns the network had over the conflict of interest between her role as a journalist and her status as the First Lady of California and her increasing role as an advocate of her husband's administration.\n\nShe appeared as herself in the film \"Last Action Hero\" (1993). She also played a minor role as herself in \"Be Prepared\", a 2006 episode of the television series \"That's So Raven\" promoting a \"Preparedness Plan\". On March 23, 2007, Shriver returned to television news as substitute host of panel-discussion talk show \"Larry King Live\" on CNN with musician Sheryl Crow and other guests.\n\nShriver announced that she will not return to the news media after the excessive media coverage of the death of Anna Nicole Smith.\n\nIn 2008, Shriver executive-produced \"American Idealist: The Story of Sargent Shriver\". The documentary originally aired on PBS on January 21, 2008. The film chronicled the life, accomplishments and vision of her father, Sargent Shriver. Shriver also serves on the advisory board of the Sargent Shriver Peace Institute, which raises public awareness of her father's legacy as a peacebuilder and offers educational and training programs grounded in the principles of public service that motivate the many programs he created, including the Peace Corps, Job Corps, Head Start, and Legal Services for the Poor.\n\nShriver has been a lifelong advocate for people with intellectual disabilities. She is a member of the International Board of Special Olympics, the organization her mother founded in 1968. She is also on the advisory board of Best Buddies, a one-to-one friendship and jobs program for people with intellectual disabilities. In addition, Shriver serves as Chair of the Audi Best Buddies Challenge: Hearst Castle, a bike ride that raises millions of dollars for programs supporting people with intellectual disabilities. As First Lady, Shriver has been instrumental in the hiring of individuals with intellectual disabilities in the capitol and in various state offices through her WE Include program. In February 2008, Shriver launched an ice cream company called Lovin' Scoopful with her brother, Tim Shriver. Twenty-five percent of the proceeds from Lovin' Scoopful benefits the Special Olympics.\n\nShriver executive-produced \"The Alzheimer's Project\", a four-part documentary series that premiered on HBO in May 2009 and later earned two Emmy Awards. It was described by the \"Los Angeles Times\" as \"ambitious, disturbing, emotionally fraught and carefully optimistic\". The series took a close look at cutting-edge research being done in the country's leading Alzheimer's laboratories. The documentary also examined the effects of this disease on patients and families. One of the Emmy Award-winning films, \"Grandpa, Do you Know Who I Am?\" is based on Shriver's best-selling children's book dealing with Alzheimer's.\n\nIn October 2009, Shriver launched \"The Shriver Report: A Woman's Nation Changes Everything,\" a national study and comprehensive report conducted in partnership with the Center for American Progress, USC's Annenberg Center on Communication, Leadership and Policy, and the Rockefeller Foundation. The Shriver Report revealed that American women, for the first time, make up half of the United States workforce and studied how that fact is impacting major institutions like family, business, government and faith organizations. The report was released in 2013 in partnership with \"TIME\" and NBC News. According to \"The New York Times\", the report \"was modeled on a study undertaken almost 50 years ago during the administration of John F. Kennedy, Shriver's uncle, and led by Eleanor Roosevelt.\" The report features, among other things, writings by public figures including Suze Orman, Beyoncé, Tammy Duckworth, Billie Jean King, Heidi Hartmann, Susan J. Douglas, Stephanie Coontz, Kristin Rowe-Finkbeiner, John Podesta, and Oprah Winfrey.\n\nIn 2010 \"The Shriver Report: A Woman's Nation Takes on Alzheimer's\" was published. It is a study by Maria Shriver and the Alzheimer's Association. It features, among other things, writings by public figures including Barbra Streisand, Laura Bush, Patti Davis, Soleil Moon Frye, Rosalynn Carter, Susan Collins, Kathleen Sebelius, Barbara Mikulski, and Joe Biden.\n\nIn 2014, \"The Shriver Report: A Woman's Nation Pushes Back from the Brink\" was published; it is about women and their children in poverty. It is by Maria Shriver, with editors Olivia Morgan, and Karen Skelton, and features, among other things, writings by public figures including Carol Gilligan, Beyoncé, Joan Chittister, Ai-Jen Poo, Eva Longoria, Stephanie Coontz, Jennifer Garner, Kathleen Sebelius, Jada Pinkett Smith, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Tory Burch, Sheryl Sandberg, Kirsten Gillibrand, Barbara Ehrenreich, LeBron James, and Hillary Clinton.\n\nOn April 30, 2013, NBC announced Shriver would join the network again as a special anchor working on issues surrounding the shifting roles of women in American life.\n\nOn October 18, 2013, Shriver returned to the anchor desk on Today, filling-in for Savannah Guthrie for the first time since 1998 as co-anchor with Matt Lauer.\n\nAfter Governor Schwarzenegger took office, Shriver took on several key initiatives as First Lady, which included raising awareness of the contributions of women to the state, working on practical solutions to end cycles of poverty, and encouraging all Californians to engage in acts of service to their communities. Once Schwarzenegger was elected, Shriver had to cut back on her news reporting to avoid conflicts of interest.\n\nShriver began leading the California Governor & First Lady's Conference on Women when Schwarzenegger took office in 2003. Under her leadership, The Women's Conference event grew into the nation's premier forum for women and, in 2010, attracted more than 30,000 attendees and 150 world opinion leaders over three full days. Each year, the event is held at the Long Beach Convention Center in October. The event aims to inspire, empower and educate women to be Architects of Change. Hundreds of luminaries have spoken at the conference including Oprah Winfrey, Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court Sandra Day O'Connor, U.S. Secretaries of State Condoleezza Rice and Madeleine Albright, Barbara Walters, Warren Buffett, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, former British Prime Minister Tony Blair, Richard Branson, Bono, Billie Jean King, Gloria Steinem, and the Dalai Lama.\n\nIn 2004, Shriver created The Minerva Awards to honor and reward \"remarkable California women\" who have changed their communities, their state, their country and the world with their courage, wisdom and strength. The Minerva Awards are named after Minerva, the Roman goddess who adorns the California State Seal and \"who symbolizes the dual nature of women as warriors and peacemakers\". The Minerva Awards are presented annually at The Women's Conference in Long Beach during a special ceremony. Recipients of the award also receive a grant to continue their work. Past Minerva Awards recipients include former first lady Betty Ford, Nancy Pelosi, Gloria Steinem, Billie Jean King, astronaut Sally Ride and the late Eunice Kennedy Shriver, Shriver's mother. The achievements of The Minerva Award winners are chronicled in a permanent exhibit at The California Museum for History, Women and the Arts in Sacramento and have become part of California's official state archive.\n\nIn 2005, Shriver launched her WE Connect Program, which connects working families in need with money-saving programs and support services. WE Connect brings together community organizations and businesses, government agencies and state leaders, congregations and schools as partners in responding to the needs of the millions of individuals and families who are struggling to make ends meet. Through a partnership with \"La Opinion\", the nation's largest Spanish-language newspaper, WE Connect has developed three editions of a 24-page, full-color, bilingual supplement that has been circulated to over 20 million Californians in need. In December 2009, Shriver, in partnership with The Women's Conference, created the WE Connect–Million Meals Initiative. Through this initiative, The Women's Conference made a donation to The California Association of Food Banks to provide more than one million meals to California families in need. The donation was allocated to the food bank's 44 member organizations who then distributed the food to California families through its more than 5,000 community-based organizations. In March 2010, Shriver held a three-day Community Resources Fair in Fresno and Los Angeles through WE Connect. The fairs provided vital programs and free support services such as tax preparation, housing and home foreclosure assistance, job assistance, flu shots, healthy food distribution and more. Event organizers estimated that over 40,000 individuals took advantage of free services during the course of the two weekends and hundreds of thousands pounds of food were distributed.\n\nAs First Lady, Shriver worked to promote service and volunteerism. As Honorary Chair of CaliforniaVolunteers, Shriver conceived of and launched the largest statewide volunteer matching network at CaliforniaVolunteers.org. Shriver was instrumental in inspiring Governor Schwarzenegger to establish the nation's first state cabinet-level Department of Service and Volunteering. She also pioneered and promoted a statewide disaster preparedness program called WE Prepare that encourages and educates Californians to be ready for an emergency or natural disaster. In addition, Shriver established WE Build and WE Garden, a children's playground and community garden-building initiative. Through CaliforniaVolunteers, Shriver has built 31 playgrounds with gardens in lower-income communities around the state in partnership with KaBOOM!.\n\nIn 2008, Shriver launched her WE Invest Program, which provides training, mentoring, support networks, microloans and other resources to help women launch or grow their businesses. In June 2009, she expanded WE Invest nationally through a partnership with Kiva, creating the first-ever online peer-to-peer microlending program in the U.S. Shriver is credited with coming up with the idea to bring Kiva's international micro-lending model to the United States.\n\nShriver is Co-Chair of The California Museum for History, Women and the Arts and she has been credited with revitalizing the state museum during her tenure. Shriver created the California Hall of Fame in 2006 at the Museum to honor legendary Californians such as Cesar Chavez, Clint Eastwood, Walt Disney, Amelia Earhart, Ronald Reagan, John Steinbeck, Rita Moreno, Earl Warren, Julia Morgan, Leland Stanford, Dorothea Lange and others. In November 2008, Shriver launched the California Legacy Trails, a first-of-its-kind web-based multimedia learning tool designed to help students learn California history.\n\nOn February 3, 2008, Shriver endorsed Senator Barack Obama for the 2008 Democratic presidential nomination. The endorsement was given at a UCLA rally featuring Caroline Kennedy, Oprah Winfrey, Stevie Wonder, and the candidate's spouse, Michelle Obama. Governor Schwarzenegger had endorsed Senator John McCain for the Republican presidential nomination a few days earlier on January 31, 2008.\n\nIn May 2009, Shriver planted the first edible garden at a state capitol in what once was a flower bed. She teamed up with Alice Waters on the project. The food grown in the organic garden is distributed to local food banks. Shriver has been an advocate for edible gardens and chairs the California School Garden Network that has doubled the number of gardens in state schools from 3,000 to 6,000 since 2004.\n\n\nIn 1977, Tom Brokaw introduced Maria to Austrian bodybuilder and actor Arnold Schwarzenegger at a charity tennis tournament being held at her mother's home. She married Schwarzenegger on April 26, 1986, in Hyannis, Massachusetts, at St. Frances Xavier Roman Catholic Church. They have four children: Katherine Eunice (born 1989), Christina Maria Aurelia (born 1991), Patrick Arnold (born 1993), and Christopher Sargent Shriver (born 1997).\n\nOn May 9, 2011, Schwarzenegger and Shriver announced their separation after 25 years of marriage, with Shriver moving out of the couple's Brentwood mansion. In a message for her Twitter followers posted on May 13, 2011, Shriver said: \"Thank you all for the kindness, support and compassion. I am humbled by the love. Thank you.\"\n\nOn May 17, 2011, Schwarzenegger publicly admitted to fathering a child with a longtime member of their household staff, Mildred Patricia Baena, 14 years earlier, and before his election as Governor of California. He confessed to Shriver only after she confronted him with the information, having earlier confirmed what she had suspected about the child in a confrontation with Baena. Shriver described Schwarzenegger's admission as \"painful and heartbreaking.\" She declined to speak further on the issue, saying: \"As a mother, my concern is for the children. I ask for compassion, respect and privacy as my children and I try to rebuild our lives and heal.\" Shriver filed for divorce on July 1, 2011. citing \"irreconcilable differences\".\n\nIn 2013, Shriver began dating political consultant Matthew Dowd, the strategist for Arnold Schwarzenegger's 2006 reelection campaign.\n\nAs executive producer of \"The Alzheimer's Project\", Shriver earned two Emmy Awards and an Academy of Television Arts & Sciences award for developing a \"television show with a conscience\". She has additionally won Peabody awards for her television journalism.\n\nIn 2009, Shriver was honored with the Shinnyo-en Foundation's 2009 Pathfinders to Peace Award, which is bestowed annually to a person who exemplifies the ideals of compassion, harmony and peace. At the presentation ceremony honoring Shriver, the foundation's chief executive said, \"Maria Shriver sees the best in other people – their innate goodness – and inspires them to become their own 'Architects of Change'. In a world that glorifies ambition at any cost, Maria instead teaches character. She is a woman of quiet strength who role-models kindness and charity, and has used her celebrity to help create peace in the world.\"\n\nThe Saint John's Health Center has a nursery named after Shriver.\n\nA hybrid rose was named after Shriver in October 2004. The Maria Shriver rose contains starchy-white blooms and a powerful citrus fragrance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14096175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14096175", "title": "Michael McCaskey", "text": "Michael McCaskey\n\nMichael McCaskey (born December 1943) was the Chairman of the Chicago Bears in the National Football League from 1999 until 2011.\n\nMcCaskey, son of current Bears principal owner Virginia Halas McCaskey, is the oldest grandchild of George Halas. He became president of the Bears in 1983 after Halas' death. McCaskey held that post until 1999, when he succeeded his father Ed as Chairman of the Board until 2011. He is the brother of current Bears Chairman George McCaskey.\n\nMcCaskey frequently clashed with Mike Ditka, who had been hired by Halas, but the volatile coach retained his job with an extension in 1984; The Bears won Super Bowl XX the following season. McCaskey finally fired Ditka after a losing season in 1992. Ditka's replacement was McCaskey's first coaching hire, Dave Wannstedt, who was a heavily-sought-after candidate by several teams. However, after a 1994 playoff appearance, the Bears posted more losing seasons; Wannstedt was fired after the 1998 season and, after a botched hiring of Dave McGinnis, McCaskey was stripped of much of his operational responsibilities and limited to the position of chairman of the board.\n\nMcCaskey is an alumnus of the Weatherhead School of Management, at Case Western Reserve University. He served in the Peace Corps in Ethiopia and taught at the business schools at UCLA and Harvard University prior to becoming president of the Bears. McCaskey is also a member of the Yale College Class of 1965 and lettered in football there.\n"}
{"id": "5167851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5167851", "title": "North Coast Harbor", "text": "North Coast Harbor\n\nNorth Coast Harbor is a district in downtown Cleveland, Ohio on the shore of Lake Erie. The district serves as the home of the Great Lakes Science Center, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, FirstEnergy Stadium, the Steamship William G. Mather Maritime Museum, the USS \"Cod\", Burke Lakefront Airport, Voinovich Bicentennial Park, and the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority. It is served by the West 3rd and North Coast stations on RTA's light rail Waterfront Line.\n\nThe harbor was the site of the Great Lakes Exposition, a historic event starting in 1936 that commemorated the centennial of Cleveland's incorporation as a city.\n\nNorth Coast Harbor has been the home of multiple events over the years: Cleveland Pride, RoverFest, Cleveland National Air Show, Ingenuity Festival, Cleveland Triathlon, Rock Your World with STEAM Family Festival, Gay Games, Rock'N'Roll Cleveland 1/2 Marathon\n\nIn the summers of 2007 and 2008, the harbor hosted the AST Dew Tour's Right Guard Open. In the summers of 2010 and 2013, the Port Authority sponsored an event called Cleveland Tall Ships, which visits Cleveland's North Coast Harbor every 3 years and is presented by The Rotary Club of Cleveland.\n\nThe Cleveland Browns are spearheading development plans to construct an entertainment and commercial district in the area behind FirstEnergy Stadium and the Great Lakes Science Center.\n\nRandy Lerner, the former owner of The Browns, stated: \n\"This is a unique opportunity for Cleveland to come together. We think the time has come to make the Lakefront a more dynamic and inviting area. We are very pleased to help with this concept, and we hope our interest attracts other private sector development geared toward making the Lakefront what it could and should be for the Cleveland community.\"\n\nWhile the Browns aren't getting into the real estate business, they would like to stimulate private investment, \"bridging a gulf that local governments and foundations aren't flush enough to fill.\" Cleveland politicians and planners have floated many ideas for lakefront development over the years, yet much of the city's downtown waterfront is undeveloped and inaccessible.\n\nOn March 19, 2012, Cleveland City Council approved key pieces of Mayor Frank Jackson's lakefront plan, a development plan to transform the waterfront by remaking the shoreline from the Cuyahoga River east across Burke Lakefront Airport, while building on existing attractions, such as the East Ninth Street pier, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, the Great Lakes Science Center and FirstEnergy Stadium. Architectural drawings include shops, restaurants, offices and a hotel tied together by walking and bicycle paths. The Rock & Dock at the North Coast Harbor Transient Marina in Downtown Cleveland opened behind the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum in June 2014.\n\nIn 2014, Cumberland Development, LLC and Trammel Crow Company were selected by City of Cleveland to develop 20+ acres surrounding Cleveland's North Coast Harbor. Phase 1; a restaurant on E9th pier was complete July 2016. Ground breaking for Phase 2; multi-use space located in the former skate park just north of the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame is scheduled for 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "31066739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31066739", "title": "Passfield Memorandum", "text": "Passfield Memorandum\n\nSidney Webb, 1st Baron Passfield was appointed as Secretary of State for the Colonies in June 1929 by Ramsay MacDonald in the second Labour government. \nHe called a Colonial Office Conference in June–July 1930 to discuss general colonial questions including the Colonial Development Fund, communication and transport, trade questions, films and colonial labour reform. As part of the proceedings of the conference, Passfield issued what was termed the Passfield Memorandum of 1930, officially the Memorandum on Native Policy in East Africa, which was a memorandum circulated to colonial governors in the British Empire. This was an emphatic reassertion of the principles of the paramountcy of native interests first set out in the Devonshire Declaration of 1923, and in its place advocated a policy of trusteeship, whereby the imperial state would protect the interests of Africans.\n\nDevonshire’s successor as Colonial Secretary from 1924 to 1929 Leo Amery, had sought to qualify this assurance, both during his 1927 tour of Southern Rhodesia, when he suggested that the colony could amalgamate with Northern Rhodesia regardless of the substantial African majority in the later and in a White paper on East Africa in the same year. Passfield stated his intention of re-establishing Devonshire's principle of trusteeship, and rejected settler wishes for self-government in Kenya or Northern Rhodesia.\n\nIn Northern Rhodesia, one effect of the Passfield Memorandum was to lessen the support of settlers for self-government as a separate entity in favour of amalgamation with Southern Rhodesia. However, Passfield and his Colonial Office officials would only consider transferring a relatively small area north of the Zambezi which contained the majority of settler farms to Southern Rhodesia.\n\nAfter the fall of the Labour Government in August 1931, there was no immediate change in the policy stated in the memorandum, but the 1938 report of the Bledisloe Commission recommended closer cooperation the two Rhodesias and Nyasaland possibly leading to future amalgamation or a loser federation. This marked a rejection of Passfield’s policy. \nThe memorandum also \"introduced a new era in colonial labour policy. Trade unions were to be encouraged, even though subject to registration\".\n"}
{"id": "10536784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10536784", "title": "Paul Hersey", "text": "Paul Hersey\n\nPaul Hersey (26 January 1931 - December 18, 2012) was a behavioral scientist and entrepreneur. He was best known for conceiving Situational Leadership. Hersey published \"Management of Organization Behavior\", which is now in its ninth edition.\n\nHersey taught about training and development in leadership, management, and selling. He was also a consultant to industrial, government, and military organizations.\n\nHersey was born in 1931 to Ralph Emerson Hersey and Beatrice Bromell. He was a Distinguished Professor of Leadership Studies at Nova Southeastern University. He had been a faculty member of Northern Illinois University, California State University, Chico, University of Arkansas, and Ohio University. He also served in the roles of Chairman of the Department of Management and Dean of the School of Business. Hersey had also served as Project Director for the Industrial Relations Center of the University of Chicago, Training Director at Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Company, and Department Head at Sandia Corporation.\n\nHersey's works included \"Management of Organizational Behavior: Utilizing Human Resources\", \"Organizational Change through Effective Leadership and Selling: A Behavioral Science Approach\". His most recent books included \"The Situational Leader\", \"Situational Selling\", \"Situational Service: Customer Care for the Practitioner\", and \"Situational Parenting.\"\n\nHersey contributed to the Isolobella lecture series at Alliant International University in San Diego, hosted by Symlog. He received degrees from various institutions including a Doctorate of Education from the University of Massachusetts Amherst, M.B.A. Degrees from the Universities of Arkansas and Chicago, and a B.S. Degree from Seton Hall University.\n\nIn the 1960s, Hersey established the Center for Leadership Studies, which provides training in Situational Leadership, as well as Situational Coaching, Parenting, and Selling. Hersey credits Douglas McGregor and Carl Rogers as being foundational to his early thinking on management and leadership.\n\nHersey married his wife Suzanne in 1968 in Pleasants, West Virginia. and was known colloquially as 'Doc'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34648132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34648132", "title": "Percy Roderick Coleman", "text": "Percy Roderick Coleman\n\nPercy Roderick Coleman (26 January 1897–20 April 1965) was a New Zealand mechanic, motor-cycle racer, businessman and aviator. He was born in Ngaere, Taranaki, New Zealand on 26 January 1897.\n"}
{"id": "51012277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51012277", "title": "Ramon Lopez (businessman)", "text": "Ramon Lopez (businessman)\n\nRamón M. López is the incumbent Secretary of Trade and Industry under the Rodrigo Duterte's administration. Before he was appointed as the DTI secretary, he was the Vice President and Executive Assistant to the President and CEO of RFM Corporation, having served for the company for 22 years, and Executive Director of Go Negosyo of the Philippine Center for Entrepreneurship.\n\nHe topped his Master in Development Economics at Williams College in Massachusetts (1988) and finished his AB Economics degree at the University of the Philippines Diliman in 1981.\n"}
{"id": "48313723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48313723", "title": "Renato Usatîi", "text": "Renato Usatîi\n\nRenato Usatîi (born 4 November 1978 in Fălești) is a Moldovan businessman and politician, since 13 April 2014 the chairman of Our Party, a left-wing populist opposition party. In 2015, he was elected the mayor of Bălți with the support of around 72% of votes. He is a leader of the pro-Russian opposition in Moldova.\n\nUsatîi graduated in foreign languages from the Bălți State University. In 2005 he started his own business, founding in Russia ″VPT-NN″, a company producing railway equipment. Since 2011, he was the major stakeholder of Universalbank, one of the major banks of Moldova.\n\nIn July 2014, Russian banker German Gorbuntsov accused Renato Usatîi of hiring a gunman to kill him.\n\nOn 23 October 2015 Usatîi was arrested in Chișinău and charged with illegal tampering of phone of Vlad Filat, the former prime-minister who himself was arrested for corruption charges. Usatîi confessed he indeed published the phone records but that he thinks it is a necessary measure in order to save the country from corruption. On 25 October he was released; the charges were not dismissed.\n\nIn October 2016 an national and international arrest warrant was issued by a Moldovan Court for Usatîi, . Since then Usatîi stays in Russia. As mayor of Bălți, formally he is in a business travel.\n"}
{"id": "15403595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15403595", "title": "Ritz Theatre (Jacksonville)", "text": "Ritz Theatre (Jacksonville)\n\nThe Ritz Theatre is an African-American oriented theatre in the LaVilla neighborhood of Jacksonville, Florida. The theater, which seats 426, is used for a variety of music, dance and theatrical productions, as well as movies. The spacious lobby is also used for private functions. Just off the lobby is the LaVilla Museum which holds\nThe Ritz Theater was designed in the Art Deco style by local architect Jefferson Powell and constructed in 1929.\nLaVilla had a thriving, vibrant culture from 1921 to 1971, when it was known as the \"Harlem of the South\". From the 1970s, the entertainment district of LaVilla went into decline and crime increased, but Mayor Ed Austin's River City Renaissance plan included $4.2 million to renovate the theatre and museum. The groundbreaking for the project was in 1998, and the pair were reopened on September 30, 1999. The sign and northwest corner are all that remain of the original building.\n"}
{"id": "50680126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50680126", "title": "SmithBucklin", "text": "SmithBucklin\n\nSmithBucklin, based in Chicago, is an association management company, founded in 1949 with secondary offices in Washington, D.C.; Old Lyme, Conn.; St. Louis; and San Ramon, Calif.\n\nWilliam E. Smith started the company with nine client organizations—headlined by the Popcorn, Seed Pea and Frozen Potato Products Institutes—and just 22 employees. On July 24, 2004, Smith died at age 90.\n\nDuring the Dot-com bubble of 1997-2001, some of SmithBucklin's client associations encountered \"painful\" financial cutbacks.\n\nOn June 29, 2005, the company became employee-owned.\n\nIn 2011, SmithBucklin contracted for 111,081 square feet at Chicago's former IBM Building, 330 N. Wabash Ave., under a 15-year lease that was set to begin in 2013.\n\nAcquisitions have fueled SmithBucklin's recent growth, including events firm Courtesy Associates (2000); public relations firm Tech Image Ltd. (2007); medical education provider The France Foundation (2011); content provider Information Inc. (2011); stakeholder-alliance firm Inventures Inc. (2013); ad-sales firm The Townsend Group (2015); and incentive-travel company SDI (2016).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4975497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4975497", "title": "Theresa Gattung", "text": "Theresa Gattung\n\nTheresa Gattung is a New Zealand businessperson and the former chief executive of Telecom New Zealand (1993–2007).\n\nGattung was born in Wellington, the eldest of four daughters. She was educated at McKillop College, Rotorua, the University of Waikato (graduating with a Bachelor of Management Studies in marketing) and Victoria University of Wellington (graduating with a Bachelor of Laws).\n\nGattung worked in senior marketing roles at National Mutual and at the Bank of New Zealand before taking up a similar role at Telecom New Zealand. In April 1996, she became Telecom's Group General Manager Services. In October 1999, she took over from Rod Deane as Telecom's CEO of the telecommunications business with a $5billion turnover operating in New Zealand and Australia and listed on the NZX, ASX and NYSE. Gattung was the first woman to run a large New Zealand public company.\nDuring her tenure as CEO Gattung led Telecom through world-changing technology developments and the evolution of the business from a traditional Telco to the number one IT provider in New Zealand.\n\nGattung resigned her position at Telecom in 2007.\n\nFrom July 2008 to March 2011, Gattung was the inaugural chair of Wool Partners International, applying her leadership skills, international business experience, marketing and branding expertise to lead the company’s drive to reinvigorate the international market for New Zealand’s strong wools.\n\nFollowing her passion for books and reading Gattung was also the chair of the New Zealand Advisory Group for the Frankfurt Book Fair 2012.\n\nGattung was appointed chair of insurer AIA Australia in 2010, and also chairs the online education content provider Telco Technology Services and CoOfWomen.\nIn 2013, Gattung, alongside Cecilia Robinson and Nadia Lim, co-founded food delivery business My Food Bag. Operating in New Zealand the company has grown very quickly with turnover exceeding $100 million.\n\nGattung has been involved with a number of not-for-profit and philanthropic interests, including being co-founder and trustee of the World Women Charitable Trust, the Eva Doucas Charitable Trust, Patron of the Cambodia Charitable Trust and Chair of the Wellington Board of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA).\n\nIn 2010, Gattung published an autobiography, \"Bird on a Wire\".\n\nIn the 2015 New Year Honours, Gattung was appointed a Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to business and philanthropy. In August 2015, she was inducted into the Marketing Hall of Fame at the 2015 TVNZ Marketing Awards.\n\nGattung has been named in \"Fortune\" magazine's list of the 50 most powerful women in international business several times, and in 2006 the Forbes list of \"The World's 100 Most Powerful Women\" ranked Gattung at number 49.\n\n"}
{"id": "46337394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46337394", "title": "Thomas Clarke (Australian politician)", "text": "Thomas Clarke (Australian politician)\n\nThomas Clarke JP (1846 – 28 December 1922) was an Australian politician and businessman who served several terms as Mayor of Redfern.\n\nClark was born to a Methodist family in 1846 in County Fermanagh, Ireland, and emigrated to the Colony of New South Wales in 1861. He commenced business as a commercial agent and produce merchant in Sydney and entered politics when he was elected as an Alderman on the first Broughton Vale Municipal Council on 19 June 1871.\n\nClarke was first elected to serve on Redfern Municipal Council in February 1887 for Golden Grove Ward. He rose to become mayor on two occasions, from February 1890 to February 1891 and from October 1898 to February 1900.\n\nClarke first stood for the NSW Parliament at the 1895 election as a Free Trade candidate for Darlington, but was unsuccessful. He was eventually elected to the New South Wales Legislative Assembly for Darlington in 1898 as a Free Trader, and sat after federation as a member of the Liberal Reform Party. However he was defeated at the following election in 1901. Clarke continued to serve on Redfern Council until his retirement in February 1906. For thirty-five years, Clarke operated as a commission agent on Sussex Street, Sydney, but retired owing to ill health a few years before his death. In 1902 \"The Catholic Press\" reported that Clarke had been elected a vice-president of the Orange Order in Sydney, noting: \"Can any of our readers inform us whether this is the same Tom Clarke, potato-seller, of Sussex-street, whom many Catholics of Golden Grove helped to return to Parliament a few years ago? If so, what do his old Catholic supporters and fellow-aldermen think of the Christian gratitude of Alderman T. Clarke?.\"\n\nHe died at his residence, 'The Willows' (which he had owned since at least 1907 and after 1914 joint-owned with his brother Sydney), in Hazelbrook on 28 December 1922 aged 74, with his obituary noting that he \"was a popular figure in Redfern, in the affairs of which he always took a deep and active interest.\" Survived by his wife, Susanna Robinson (d. 1924), he was buried in the family plot at Lawson Cemetery alongside his son Sydney Charles Adam Clarke (1881–1922) who had predeceased him by two months.\n"}
{"id": "46660289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46660289", "title": "Trial and sentencing of Robert H. Richards IV", "text": "Trial and sentencing of Robert H. Richards IV\n\nRobert H. Richards IV is a convicted child rapist and great-grandson of chemical magnate Irénée du Pont and heir to the du Pont family fortune.\n\nRichards, 48, is the son of Robert H. Richards III and Mariana, daughter of Mariana DuPont Stillman. He lives in Delaware, and owns three homes, located in Greenville and North Shores. He married Tracy Richards, but they later divorced.\n\nIn 2009, he entered a guilty plea and was convicted of raping his 3-year-old daughter, after the girl reported the abuse to her grandmother. Instead of serving out his eight-year prison sentence, the sentencing order signed by Delaware Superior Court Judge Jan R. Jurden said that the \"defendant will not fare well\" in prison and thus the eight-year sentence was suspended. Delaware Public Defender Brendan J. O'Neill expressed surprise that Jurden would use such a rationale to avoid sending Richards to prison.\n\nIn 2010, allegations were made that Richards had also molested his son beginning in December 2005 and continuing for two years. Police and prosecutors investigated but did not find sufficient evidence to pursue charges. Delaware Attorney General Beau Biden later defended the sentencing of Richards to probation. Although Richards was ordered by Jurden to go through in-patient treatment at a Massachusetts facility, he has failed to do so.\n\nIn 2014, Richards' former wife, Tracy Richards, filed a lawsuit seeking damages for the abuse of his daughter. The lawsuit also claims that the polygraph tests Richards took in April 2010 during his probation supported allegations that he had molested his son. These reports were provided to Jurden. In April 2014, Superior Court Judge Richard F. Stokes denied Richards' request to seal the court files, stating that the proceedings were open to the public and this was a First Amendment issue. By the end of June 2014, it was reported that a sealed confidential settlement had been reached on the lawsuit.\n\nThe case has caused questions to be raised if the wealthy receive unfair preference in the legal system, and compared to Ethan Couch, whose \"affluenza\" defense famously earned him probation.\n"}
{"id": "5918532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5918532", "title": "Undervalue transaction", "text": "Undervalue transaction\n\nAn undervalue transaction is a transaction entered into by a company who subsequently goes into bankruptcy which the court orders be set aside, usually upon the application of a liquidator for the benefit of the debtor's creditors. Under Australian insolvency law they are referred to as uncommercial transactions.\n\nUnder ordinary principles of contract law, the courts will not generally look into the adequacy of the consideration provided by either side. However, if a company is in real peril of going into bankruptcy, many legal systems provide a mechanism that transactions which are seriously commercially disadvantageous to the company can be unwound, so as to prevent prejudice to the creditors of the company.\n\nNormally, for a transaction to be set aside as an undervalue transaction, the liquidator or equivalent must demonstrate that:\n\nThe vulnerability period is the period of time immediately prior to the company going into bankruptcy. The length of the vulnerability period varies between countries, and some countries apply different vulnerability periods in different circumstances. For example, in the United Kingdom, the vulnerability period is either:\nThe period is calculated by reference to the period of time immediately preceding the company going into liquidation or administration.\n\nThe effect of a successful application to have a transaction declared as an undervalue transaction varies. Inevitably the other party to the transaction who received the benefit has to return the benefit (or account for it) it to the liquidator. In some countries the assets are treated in the normal way, and may be taken by any secured creditors who have a security interest which catches the assets (characteristically, a floating charge). However, some countries have \"ring-fenced\" recoveries of unfair preferences so that they are made available to the pool of assets for unsecured creditors.\n\nMany jurisdictions which have prohibitions on undervalue transactions also provide for an exception in the case of transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business where the directors are of a view that it is for the benefit of the company, and such transactions are usually either validated or presumed to be validated.\n\n"}
{"id": "30296786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30296786", "title": "Universal annuity system", "text": "Universal annuity system\n\nUniversal Annuity System is when an international community (e.g. the UN) establishes a fund that the governments or communities of the world add to every year. These funds are invested. The gains on these investments are distributed evenly among the people as income. This process is known as the Universal Annuity System. A sovereign wealth fund at an international level.\n\n"}
{"id": "1078228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1078228", "title": "William Rockefeller Sr.", "text": "William Rockefeller Sr.\n\nWilliam Avery \"Big Bill\" Rockefeller Sr. (November 13, 1810 – May 11, 1906) was an American businessman, lumberman, and salesman who went by the alias of Dr. William Levingston. He worked as a lumberman and then a traveling salesman who identified himself as a \"botanic physician\" and sold elixirs. He was known to buy and sell horses, and was also known at one point to have bought a barge-load of salt in Syracuse. Land speculation was another type of his business, and the selling of elixirs served to keep him with cash and aided in his scouting of land deals. He loaned money to farmers at twelve percent, but tried to lend to farmers who could not pay so as to foreclose and take the farms. Two of his sons were Standard Oil co-founders John Davison Rockefeller Sr. and William Avery Rockefeller Jr.\n\nWilliam Avery Rockefeller was born in Ancram, New York. He was the eldest son of businessman/farmer Godfrey Lewis Rockefeller (September 24, 1783, Albany, New York – September 28, 1857, Richford, New York) and Lucy Avery (February 11, 1786, Great Barrington, Massachusetts – April 6, 1867). Godfrey and Lucy had married on September 20, 1806, in Amwell, Hunterdon County, New Jersey. Bill had two elder sisters—Melinda and Olympia—as well as seven younger siblings; Norman, Sally, Jacob, Mary, Miles, Mary Miranda, and Egbert.\n\nThe Rockefellers trace their patrilineal line to Goddard Rockefeller (born Gotthard Rockenfeller) (1590) of Fahr, today part of Neuwied, Germany. The first Rockefeller to emigrate to America (1723) was Johann Peter Rockenfeller (1710, Segendorf, Neuwied; 1787, Amwell Township, New Jersey), who changed his name to Rockefeller. Godfrey Lewis Rockefeller was a son of distant cousins William Rockefeller (1750–1793) and Christina Rockefeller (1754–1800).\n\nLucy Avery was born to Miles Avery and Melinda Pixley, New England Yankees of mostly English descent. She was descended by her father from Edmund of Langley's first marriage (through 5th Baron Audley's second marriage) and from Mary Boleyn's first marriage (through the 2nd Barons de la Warr).\n\nRockefeller married his first wife, Eliza Davison (September 12, 1813 – March 28, 1889), a daughter of farmer John Davison and Cynthia Selover, on February 18, 1837 in Niles, Cayuga Co., New York. John highly opposed the union. Since Cynthia had died when Eliza was twelve, Eliza had been raised by her elder sister, Mary Ann Davison, and father John. \n\nRockefeller met Eliza on one of his business trips in Upstate New York. It is said that Rockefeller pulled out a slate and chalk to communicate when he arrived at the Davison residence, as he often pretended to be deaf and dumb on his selling trips. Eliza is to have supposedly remarked, \"If that man were not deaf and dumb, I'd marry him.\"\n\nBill and Eliza were the parents of three sons and three daughters: \n\nBill once bragged, \"I cheat my boys every chance I get. I want to make 'em sharp.\" Although Bill abandoned the family while Lucy, John, and William Jr. were teenagers, he remained legally married to Eliza until her death. In 1856, having assumed the name Dr. William Levingston, he married Margaret Allen (1834–1910) in Norwich, Ontario, Canada. Bill and Margaret had no children together. Before leaving his first wife, he also had two daughters with his mistress and housekeeper Nancy Brown:\n\nBefore marrying Eliza, Bill had been in love with Nancy. However, he ended up marrying Eliza since her father was to give her $500 when she married, and Nancy was poor.\n\nWhen John D. Rockefeller started his own produce commission business with Maurice B. Clark in 1859, Clark initiated the idea of the partnership and offered $2,000 towards the goal. John D. Rockefeller had only $800 saved up at the time and so borrowed $1,000 from his father, \"Big Bill\" Rockefeller, at 10 percent interest. \n\nBill visited with his grandchildren at the Forest Hill estate in Cleveland and at Pocantico Hills in Tarrytown. He taught his grandchildren how to shoot and played fiddle in the evenings for them. Prior to Bill's visits, John D. would invite some of Bill's Upstate New York relatives and friends.\n\nOn July 26, 1849, in the city of Auburn, New York, William was indicted for a rape which had occurred at gunpoint. His victim had worked in the Rockefeller household; her name was Ann Vanderbeak. In the 1905 book \"Memoirs of an American Citizen\", Robert Herrick says an improper relationship had been rumoured to exist.\n\nThe court document reads, \"That William A. Rockefeller late of the Town of Moravia in the County of Cayuga, on the first day of May in the year of the Lord Thousand Eight hundred and forty eight, with force and arms at the Town of Moravia in said County, in and upon one Ann Vanderbeak in the Peace of God with the People of the State of New York then and there being, violently did make and assault on her, the said Ann Venderbeak, then and there make violently and against her will feloniously did ravish and carnally know […]\". William Cooper, the Rockefeller family Doctor, also indicated with the assault and battery with the intention of raping Ann Vanderbeak.\n\nBecause of the allegations, William sold the Moravia home and moved to Oswego, New York, possibly to avoid trial, under the pretence of providing better opportunities for the boys. Four days later, Eliza's father sued Bill in the Supreme Court of Cayuga for failure to pay a $1,175 debt. His plea states that Bill had asked him for help with his bail for the rape charges, but that Eliza's father had not seen Bill since. Eliza also informed authorities that her husband had \"absconded and cannot now be found within the state.\" William assumed the title Doctor Bill Levingston and worked as a travelling snake oil specialist. Although nothing became of the charges William left the family penniless.\n\nAfter hearing rumours that John D. Rockefeller—then the richest man in the world at the height of his fame—had a shameful family secret, the press went into a frenzy. Joseph Pulitzer offered a reward of $8,000 for information about \"Doc Rockefeller,\" who was known to be alive and living under a false name, but whose whereabouts were a family secret. Despite slender clues picked up from interviews with family members and an 18-month search, the journalists failed to track him down before he died. The full story was not exposed until two years later.\n\nRockefeller had spent some time in Park River, North Dakota under the Levingston alias. He died on May 11, 1906, at the age of 95 in Freeport, Illinois. He was buried there in Oakland Cemetery. John D. Rockefeller never publicly acknowledged the truth about his father's life as a bigamist, and the cost for Bill's grave marker was paid by the second wife's estate.\n"}
