{"id": "53931703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53931703", "title": "90-94 Maiden Lane Building", "text": "90-94 Maiden Lane Building\n\n90-94 Maiden Lane at Gold Street, between William and Pearl Streets in the Financial District of Manhattan, New York City, was built in 1870-71 in the French Second Empire style and is attributed to Charles Wright. It has a cast-iron façade from Daniel D. Badger's Architectural Iron Works, and is one of the few surviving examples of cast-iron architecture between Fulton Street and the Battery, as well as one of the handful of mid-19th century commercial buildings extant in Lower Manhattan. The building's façade was commissioned by Roosevelt & Son, the leading plate glass and mirror importer; Theodore Roosevelt Sr., the father of the U.S. President of the same name, was one of the company's principals. Unlike most other buildings of its sort, it has not been converted into condominium apartments, and is still in use as a commercial building.\n\nThe building was designated a New York City landmark on August 1, 1989.\n\n"}
{"id": "11317534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11317534", "title": "Albert Dadon", "text": "Albert Dadon\n\nAlbert Dadon AM (born 1957) is an Australian businessman, philanthropist and musician. He was born in Morocco and grew up in Israel and France before immigrating to Melbourne, Australia in 1983. He is prominent in promoting cultural and business links between Australia and Israel. He undertakes a range of activities covering international affairs, political activism and cultural activities within Australia and overseas exchange programs. He is executive chairman of Ubertas Group, a diversified funds management and property development company.\n\nFrom 1991 to 1993 Dadon was chairman of the French Chamber of Commerce in Australia (Victorian Chapter). He established “Le Concours des Vins du Victoria”, a wine competition in Australia.\n\nFrom 1994 to 1996, he was director of the Australia French Foundation, an appointment made by Senator Gareth Evans, the then Minister of Foreign Affairs of Australia. This foundation was initiated by the then prime minister, Bob Hawke, as a gift to France for the bicentennial of the French Revolution.\n\nIn 2001 Dadon was chairman of the United Israel Appeal in Victoria. He founded in 2002 and then chaired the Australian Israel Cultural Exchange, an organization launched through a Joint Declaration between the Australian and Israeli Governments. A joint declaration announcing and supporting the establishment of AICE by Alexander Downer MP, Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs, and Binyamin Netanyahu MK, Israeli Minister for Foreign Affairs, took place simultaneously in Parliament House, Canberra and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Jerusalem. It was the first time that such a joint declaration has been made between the two countries. Dadon also publishes a quarterly magazine for AICE titled \"Rhapsody\". \n\nFrom 2003 to 2005 Dadon was chairman of the Melbourne Jazz Festival. In 2005 he brought to Melbourne the Umbria Jazz Festival, which was named “Umbria Jazz Melbourne 05”. The festival in 2005 attracted 135,000 visitors under the artistic direction of Carlo Pagnotta. The festival is mainly funded by the Victorian government through Victoria Major Event Company and Arts Victoria. In 2006 the organisation appointed Dadon to become the new director of the festival and take the artistic lead. \n\nThe appointment of Dadon as artistic director resulted in a change of name of the festival to Melbourne Jazz, and the 2007 edition of the festival enjoyed the presence of more than 200 artists from the world around, performing in ten venues in 112 concerts during its ten days. Some of the artists who played at the festival were Herbie Hancock, Chick Corea, Gary Burton and McCoy Tyner.\n\nIn 2003 Dadon founded the Australian Jazz Bell Awards (named after Australian legend and patron of the event Graeme Bell, AO). Dadon chairs the board of The Australian Jazz Awards Limited (a not-for-profit arts organisation) that governs the awards. The Bells are the only form of formal recognition system entirely devoted to the jazz art form in Australia. They recognise the achievements of young and established Australian jazz performers and composers. \n\nIn 2008 Dadon received an Order of Australia (AM) for service to the arts, particularly through the Melbourne Jazz Festival, through philanthropic support for cultural and charitable organisations, and to business.\n\nIn 2009, Dadon established the Australia Israel Leadership Forum which then became the Australia UK Israel Leadership Dialogue once the UK joined the group in 2011.\nIn March 2015, Albert Dadon realised one of his long-term dreams with the opening of Bird's Basement, a Jazz Club in Melbourne, in association with Birdland New York. \n\nUnder his stage name \"Albare\", Dadon is a jazz guitarist and composer. He has recorded two albums with Festival Records in Australia and produced \"A History of Standard Time\", Joe Chindamo’s first solo recording and featuring Ray Brown. His latest albums are \"Midnight Blues\" (2007), \"After the Rain\" (2009), \"Travel Diary\" (2010), \"Long Way\" (2012), \"The Road Ahead\" (2013), \"2 Decades of Jazz\" (2014), \"Only Human\" (2015) and \"Dream Time\" (2016). Dadon is currently signed to Enja Records.\n\n"}
{"id": "5360657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5360657", "title": "Alfred Mulock Bentley", "text": "Alfred Mulock Bentley\n\nAlfred Mulock Bentley (1878–1956) was a British-born financier who founded the Rhodesian Stock Exchange in Bulawayo in 1946.\n"}
{"id": "23671601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23671601", "title": "Amy Elizabeth du Pont", "text": "Amy Elizabeth du Pont\n\nAmélia \"Amy\" Elizabeth du Pont (August 7, 1875 – February 16, 1962) was a philanthropist and prominent member of the Du Pont family of American industrialists.\n\nShe was born on August 7, 1880, the fifth of six children born to Eugène du Pont, grandson of DuPont founder Éleuthère Irénée du Pont (1771–1834). Eugène was the first head of the modern DuPont corporation, seeing the corporation into the 20th century.\n\nAmy's mother and namesake, Amélia Elizabeth du Pont, was also born a du Pont, granddaughter of Charles I. du Pont (1797–1869), nephew of Éleuthère Irénée.\n\nIn his will, Eugène provided equally for his children, but the portions for Amy and her sisters were held in trust for them, while their brothers received their inheritance outright.\n\nKnown as \"Miss Amy\", she never married.\n\nAn ardent horsewoman, she was injured in a fall from a horse in 1954 that restricted her activities. She died on February 16, 1962 at age 86, following a stroke at her home in Montecito, near Santa Barbara. She was buried at Santa Barbara Cemetery.\n\nDu Pont was a major benefactor of the University of Delaware. She served on the University of Delaware Board of Trustees' Advisory Committee on the Women's College from 1939–1944.\n\nIn 1939, she and her attorney, Judge Hugh M. Morris, founded the Unidel Foundation, a private charitable organization whose mission is \"to aid and promote higher education in the State of Delaware, and to increase, enlarge and improve the scientific and educational advantages and opportunities of its people by gifts and contributions [to the university].\" Without any children, Amy willed much of her inheritance to the Unidel Foundation, including DuPont and Hercules Inc. stock valued at some $25 million at her death in 1962. The first major project was to renovate the Carpenter Sports Building, named in honor of du Pont's cousin R. R. M. Carpenter (1877–1949), a DuPont executive, owner of the Philadelphia Phillies and long-time benefactor for the university's athletic department. By the end of the 20th century, Unidel provided more than $112 million to university programs.\n\nIn 1973, the Unidel Foundation helped build the Amy E. du Pont Music Building in her honor. It houses the university's department of music.\n"}
{"id": "28868938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28868938", "title": "Archibald Barr", "text": "Archibald Barr\n\nArchibald Barr FRS FRSE LLD (18 November 1855, Glenfield House, Paisley, Renfrewshire – 5 August 1931) was a Scottish scientific engineer, inventor and businessman. He was a co-founder of Barr & Stroud, and invented the Barr & Stroud Rangefinder.\n\nArchibald was born in Glenfield House in Abbey, near Paisley, the third son of Archibald Barr, a yarn merchant, and Jeanie Stirrat, Barr was educated at Paisley Grammar School and apprenticed as an engineer to A F Craig & Co in Paisley before attending University of Glasgow to study engineering.\n\nIn 1885 he married Isabella Young.\n\nBarr first worked as assistant to James Thomson, the Regius Professor of Civil Engineering and Mechanics at Glasgow, a post Barr was to attain himself later in his career. He was subsequently appointed to the chair of Civil and Mechanical Engineering at the Yorkshire College (since 1904 the University of Leeds).\n\nBarr was a motoring enthusiast and as a member of the Scottish Automobile Club, he participated as an organiser of Scotland’s first motor car reliability trials in 1901.\nHe also helped to form the Scottish Aeronautical Club in 1909, becoming its president, and was a promoter of Scotland’s first aviation meeting, held at Lanark in 1910.\nHe served as President of the Institution of Engineers and Shipbuilders in Scotland in 1910-11. Barr was also a governor of the Royal Scottish National Institution for the care of those with learning difficulties.\n\nHe also gifted £8,000 towards the cost of a new organ for Paisley Abbey.\n\nIn 1898 he successfully campaigned for a new Chair in Electrical Engineering at Glasgow University. In 1901 he raised £54,000 to build and equip the James Watt Engineering Building at Glasgow University.\n\nBarr died at his home, Westerton of Mugdock, near Milngavie, near Glasgow, on 5 August 1931.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35120328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35120328", "title": "Bill of lading", "text": "Bill of lading\n\nA bill of lading (sometimes abbreviated as B/L or BoL) is a document issued by a carrier (or their agent) to acknowledge receipt of cargo for shipment. Although in England, the term once related only to carriage by sea, a bill of lading may be used for any type of carriage of goods.\n\nBills of lading are one of three crucial documents used in international trade to ensure that exporters receive payment and importers receive the merchandise. The other two documents are a policy of insurance and an invoice. Whereas a bill of lading is negotiable, both a policy and an invoice are assignable. In international trade outside the United States, bills of lading are distinct from waybills in that the latter are not transferable and do not confer title. Nevertheless, the UK Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1992 grants \"all rights of suit under the contract of carriage\" to the lawful holder of a bill of lading, or to the consignee under a sea waybill or a ship's delivery order.\n\nA bill of lading must be transferable, and serves three main functions:\n\nTypical export transaction use INCOTERMS terms such as CIF, FOB or FAS, requiring the exporter/shipper to deliver the goods to the ship, whether onboard or alongside. Nevertheless, the loading itself will usually be done by the carrier himself or by a third party stevedore; (see Scruttons Ltd v Midland Silicones Ltd and NZ Shipping Co Ltd v A M Satterthwaite & Co Ltd - The \"Eurymedon\").\n\nA bill of lading is a standard-form document that is transferable by endorsement (or by lawful transfer of possession). Most shipments by sea are covered by the Hague Rules, the Hague-Visby Rules or the Hamburg Rules, which require the carrier to issue the shipper a bill of lading identifying the nature, quantity, quality and leading marks of the goods.\n\nIn the case of \"Coventry v Gladstone\", Lord Justice Blackburn defined a bill of lading as \"A writing signed on behalf of the owner of ship in which goods are embarked, acknowledging the receipt of the Goods, and undertaking to deliver them at the end of the voyage, subject to such conditions as may be mentioned in the bill of lading.\" Therefore, it can be stated that the bill of lading was introduced to provide a receipt to the shipper in the absence of the owners.\n\nAlthough the term \"bill of lading\" is well known and well understood, it may become obsolete. Articles 1:15 & 1:16 of the Rotterdam Rules create the new term \"transport document\"; but (assuming the Rules come into force) it remains to be seen whether shippers, carriers and \"maritime performing parties\" (another new Rotterdam Rules coinage) will abandon the long-established and familiar term, \"bill of lading\".\n\nWhile there is evidence of the existence of receipts for goods loaded aboard merchant vessels stretching back as far as Roman times, and the practice of recording cargo aboard ship in the ship's log is almost as long-lived as shipping itself, the modern bill of lading only came into use with the growth of international trade in the medieval world.\n\nThe growth of mercantilism (which produced other financial innovations such as the charterparty (once \"carta partita\"), the bill of exchange and the insurance policy) produced a requirement for a title document that could be traded in much the same way as the goods themselves. It was this new avenue of trade that produced the bill of lading in much the same form as we know today.\n\nAlthough the term \"bill of lading\" is well known and well understood, it may become obsolete. Articles 1:15 & 1:16 of the Rotterdam Rules create the new term \"transport document\"; but (assuming the Rotterdam Rules come into force) it remains to be seen whether shippers, carriers and \"maritime performing parties\" (another new Rotterdam Rules coinage) will abandon the familiar term \"bill of lading\".\n\nThe principal use of the bill of lading is as a receipt issued by the carrier once the goods have been loaded onto the vessel. This receipt can be used as proof of shipment for customs and insurance purposes, and also as commercial proof of completing a contractual obligation,especially under INCOTERMS such as CFR (cost and freight) and FOB (free on board).\n\nAlthough the Hague-Visby Rules provide that a bill of lading is only \"prima facie\" evidence of receipt, the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1992 s.4 declares a BoL \"conclusive evidence of receipt\".\n\n\n\nThe bill of lading from carrier to shipper can be used as an evidence of the contract of carriage by the fact that carrier has received the goods and upon the receipt the carrier would deliver the goods. In this case, the bill of lading would be used as a contract of carriage. In this case, the bill of lading can be used if shipper does not properly ship the goods then the shipper cannot receive the bill of lading from the carrier. Eventually, the shipper would have to deliver the bill of lading to the seller. In this case, the bill of lading is used as a contract of carriage between seller and carrier. However, when the bill of lading is negotiated to a bona fide third party then the bill of lading becomes a conclusive evidence where no contradictory evidence can be introduced. It is because the third party cannot examine the actual shipment and can only pay attention to the document itself, not survey or examination of the shipment itself. However, the bill of lading will rarely be the contract itself, since the cargo space will have been booked previously, perhaps by telephone, email or letter. The preliminary contract will be acknowledged by both the shipper and carrier to incorporate the carrier's standard terms of business. If the Hague-Visby Rules apply, then all of the Rules will be automatically annexed to the bill of lading, thus forming a statutory contract.\n\nWhen the bill of lading is used as a document of title, it is particularly related to the case of buyer. When the buyer is entitled to received goods from the carrier, bill of lading in this case performs as document of title for the goods. There are two types of bill of lading that can perform as document of title. They are straight bill of lading and order bill of lading. Straight bill of lading is a bill of lading issued to a named consignee that is not negotiable. In this case, the bill of lading should be directed only to one specific consignee indicated on the bill of lading. Order bill of lading is the opposite from a straight bill of lading and there is no specific or named consignee. Therefore, an order bill of lading can be negotiated to a third party.\n\nSimply, the bill of lading confers \"prima facie\" title over the goods to the named consignee or lawful holder. Under the \"nemo dat quod non habet\" rule (\"no one gives what he doesn't have\"), a seller cannot pass better title than he himself has; so if the goods are subject to an encumbrance (such as a mortgage, charge or hypothec), or even stolen, the bill of lading will not grant full title to the holder.\n\nBills of lading may take various forms, such as on-board and received-for-shipment.\n\n\nA charterparty is the contract governing the relationship between the shipowner and the charterer. The bill of lading governs the relationship between the shipper and the carrier (who will be either a shipowner or a demise charterer). If the exporter (the shipper) is shipping a small amount of cargo, he will arrange for a carrier to carry the goods for him, using a bill of lading. If the exporter needs the whole (or a very substantial part) of the ship's cargo capacity, the exporter may need to charter the vessel, and he will enter into a charterparty agreement with the shipowner.\n\nIf the charter party is a time or voyage charterparty, the shipowner will still have control of the ship and its crew. If there is a demise (or \"bareboat\") charterparty, the charterer will effectively have a long lease and will have full control of the vessel. When the master (captain) issues a B/L to a shipper, he will be acting as an agent for the carrier, who will be either the shipowner (time or voyage) or the charterer (demise).\n\nIn a time-charterparty or voyage-charterparty, if the charterer is shipping his own cargo (rather than the cargo of a third party) he will receive a bill of lading from the master, acting as agent of the shipowner; but that B/L will serve solely as a receipt and document of title, and its terms will (subject to contrary intent) be secondary to the terms of the charterparty, which remains the dominant contract.\n\nUnder Art. III of the Hague-Visby Rules, a carrier must, on demand, provide the shipper with a bill of lading; but if the shipper agrees, a lesser document such as a \"sea waybill\" may be issued instead. In recent years, the use of bills of lading has declined, and they have tended to be replaced with the sea waybill. (If a so-called bill of lading is declared to be \"non-negotiable\", then it is not a true B/L, and instead will be treated as a sea waybill.)\n\nThe main difference between these two documents is that the waybill gives the bearer the right to possession of the cargo, but does not confer title in the goods. As a result, there is no need for the physical document to be presented for the goods to be released. The carrier will automatically release the goods to the consignee once the import formalities have been completed. This results in a much smoother flow of trade, and has allowed shipping lines to move towards electronic data interchange which may greatly ease the flow of global trade.\n\nFor some time, it has been the case that the cargo may arrive at the destination before the bill of lading; and a practice has arisen for the shipper (having sent the bill of lading to the banks for checking) to send to the consignee a letter of indemnity (LOI) which can be presented to the carrier in exchange for the cargo. The LOI indemnifies the carrier against any cargo claim, but the document is not transferable and has no established legal status. For letter of credit and documentary collection transactions, it is important to retain title to the goods until the transaction is complete. This means that the bill of lading still remains a vital document within international trade.\n\nFor many years, the industry has sought a solution to the difficulties, costs and inefficiencies associated with paper bills of lading. One answer is to make the bill an electronic document. An electronic bill of lading (or eB/L) is the legal and functional equivalent of a paper bill of lading. An electronic bill of lading must replicate the core functions of a paper bill of lading, namely its functions as a receipt, as evidence of or containing the contract of carriage and as a document of title.\n\nThe UK Carriage of Goods Act 1992 s.1(5) enables the trade minister to make regulations for electronic transactions. As yet, no such regulations have been made, as electronic interchange is already lawful. Electronic \"clubs\" such as BOLERO have been quite successful, but the maritime trade community is traditional and loath to move away from paper transactions, so progress has been very slow. However, in recent times, it has been proposed that Blockchain technology may be the answer to cover the myriad steps in an export trade transaction, thereby enabling electronic transactions and information transfer that is both speedy and reliable.\n\nThe word \"lading\" means \"loading\", both words being derived from the Old English word \"hladan\". \"Lading\" specifically refers to the loading of cargo aboard a ship. The Dutch word \"lading\" has exactly the same meaning (freight, cargo, an amount of transportable goods) as it has in the English \"bill of lading\", but is not restricted to shipping.\n\nUnder English law, the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1992 provides that the term \"bill of lading\" includes a \"received-for-shipment\" bill of lading issued by, say, a freight forwarder or a storage depot/warehouse. A \"combined bill of lading\" may be issued by a carrier who, say, collects goods from a factory for subsequent delivery to a ship via multi-modal transport. \n\nThe table below explains how to recognize a valid BOL for most international shipping companies, including the SCAC:\n\n"}
{"id": "1830910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830910", "title": "Chanin Building", "text": "Chanin Building\n\nThe Chanin Building is a brick and terra-cotta skyscraper located at 122 East 42nd Street, at the corner of Lexington Avenue, in Midtown Manhattan, New York City. Built by Irwin S. Chanin in 1927–1929, it is 56 stories high, reaching excluding the spire and including it. It was designed by Sloan & Robertson in the Art Deco style, with the assistance of Chanin's own architect Jacques Delamarre, and it incorporates architectural sculpture by Rene Paul Chambellan.\n\nThe building was designated a New York City landmark in 1978, and was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.\n\nThe base of the building boasts black Belgian marble around the store fronts with a bronze frieze directly above depicting scenes of evolution. A second terra-cotta frieze runs the whole length of the lower facade, presenting a dramatic collection of angular zigzags and curvy leaves. The tower rises 22 stories and then thins into a series of setbacks, reaching a total of 56 floors. The top of the building is a series of buttresses that are illuminated from the inside at night, lighting up the recesses in the crown.\n\nIn the lobbies, which originally served as a \"palatial\" bus terminal and which still connect to the Grand Central subway station, eight bronze reliefs designed by Rene Paul Chambellan perch above ornate bronze radiator grilles. The bronze ornamentation continues in the waves on the floor, mailboxes, and elevator doors extending the general Art Deco style from the outside in. When originally completed, the 50th floor had a silver-and-black high-brow movie theater. This floor and the 51st are now offices joined by a stairwell instead. Initially a dominant landmark in the midtown skyline, the building had an open-air observatory on the 54th floor. Having been surpassed in height by a number of buildings, most notably the Chrysler Building located across the street, the observatory has been long closed. The self-supporting tower atop the building was the original transmission site for WQXR-FM from 1936 to 1965, when it moved to the Empire State Building.\n\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "41107277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41107277", "title": "Credit agreements in South Africa", "text": "Credit agreements in South Africa\n\nCredit agreements in South Africa are agreements or contracts in South Africa in terms of which payment or repayment by one party (the debtor) to another (the creditor) is deferred. This entry discusses the core elements of credit agreements as defined in the National Credit Act, and the consequences of concluding a credit agreement in South Africa.\n\nIt is essential that the meanings of important terms used in the practice of consumer law are clearly understood. Most of the definitions below are obtained from the National Credit Act 34 of 2005 (“the Act”).\n\nAn “agreement” simply means a contract.\n\n“Credit” means a deferral or delay of payment of a sum of money to another person, or a promise to pay money.\n\nThe critical role of credit in the economy is explained in the August 2004 policy framework of the Department of Trade and Industry:\n\nCredit enables people to have use of a product or service, at a cost represented by an interest rate, prior to their having paid for that product or service or, where an item cannot be afforded from a single month’s salary, to spread payments over a number of months.\n\nThis document goes on to describe credit as a “double-edged sword,” because of the “considerable imbalance of power between consumers and credit providers,” due to poor consumer education levels and knowledge of consumer rights, and inability to enforce such rights through negotiation or legal action:\n\nCredit cannot therefore be seen as a universal basic service to which access should be extended in the same way as access to water, health care and electricity. There is a greater need to balance access to credit with protection for consumers, especially the vulnerable.\n\nA credit provider is the party who supplies goods or services (in terms of an instalment sale agreement, for example), or who pays money (in terms, for example, of a secured or unsecured money loan, overdraft facility, pawn transaction or mortgage loan). The credit provider is often also referred to as “the creditor,” in particular when steps are taken to recover amounts due from the consumer.\n\nA consumer is the party to whom goods or services are sold, or to whom money is loaned in any of the examples referred to above. When steps are taken to recover amounts due, the consumer is often referred to as “the debtor.”\n\nAn agreement is a credit agreement if it provides for a deferral or delay of payment, and if there is a fee or interest charged for the deferred payment. The Act does not require that a credit agreement be in writing and signed by both parties, although this is implied throughout the Act. A credit agreement may be a credit facility, a credit transaction or a credit guarantee (or a combination of these). These three terms are defined in section 8 of the Act.\n\nA credit facility is an agreement in terms of which a credit provider supplies goods or services, or pays an amount to the consumer. The consumer's obligation to pay the price or repay the money is deferred, in exchange for which the consumer pays interest and fees. Examples of a credit facility are credit advanced\n\n\nA “credit transaction” may refer any one of a number of different types of transactions. Most important for present purposes are the follow\n\nIn terms of instalment agreements, movable goods (like furniture, clothing or a car) are sold, the price is paid in instalments, and the item is delivered to the consumer. The consumer becomes owner only once all instalments have been paid.\n\nUnsecured money loans are usually smaller money loans (micro-loans) re-payable in instalments, where the lender is given no security for re-payment of the debt.\n\nIn terms of pawn transactions, money is lent and the borrower provides an item of property as security, the resale value of which is greater than the loan. The creditor is entitled to sell the property if the money is not repaid by an agreed date, and to keep the proceeds of the sale.\n\nMortgage agreements are money loans secured by the registration of a mortgage bond over land, the proceeds of which are usually used to buy land or housing.\n\nIn terms of secured loans, money is paid, and the credit provider receives a pledge of any movable property or something else of value as security for repayment of the loan.\n\nLeases of movable goods—that is, not land or housing—would include, for example, a telefax machine or a motor car, with rent being paid in instalments, together with fees and interest. (If interest and fees are not charged, it will not be a credit transaction in terms of the Act). The total instalments will usually amount to the value of the item let. Once all instalments are paid, ownership passes to the consumer. This is contrary to the common law of lease. If, however, the agreement provides that ownership will always remain with the lessor, it will still be a credit transaction in terms of the Act.\n\nIn terms of a credit guarantee, a third party agrees to pay to a creditor the amount due by a consumer, on demand (as, for example, in the case of suretyship, in terms of which personal security is provided for the debt of another person resulting from an overdrawn cheque account).\n\nIncidental credit agreements occur when goods or services are provided to a consumer over a period of time and a fee or interest is charged only if payment is not made by an agreed date. Examples include\n\n\nIncidental credit agreements do not fall under the definition of credit agreements in the Act. Section 5 sets out the limited provisions of the Act applicable to them.\n\nA number of other agreements are not regarded as credit agreements by the Act, including\n\n\nThe National Credit Act is a complicated and lengthy piece of legislation that tries to regulate closely every sector of the consumer credit market. The last provisions of the Act became effective on June 1, 2007. The Act repealed the Usury Act and the Credit Agreements Act, and bears very little resemblance to these Acts. It represents a clean break from the past. All consumer credit law is contained within the Act, which applies to all credit agreements and all credit providers.\n\nThe Act has the ambitious and extremely difficult objective of promoting a competitive, efficient and effective credit industry and market which is at the same time fair, transparent, responsible and accessible. The overriding theme of the Act is consumer protection. Section 3 of the Act sets out a number of methods that the Act adopts to achieve this.\n\nMuch of the responsibility for implementing the purposes of the Act lies with the National Credit Regulator (NCR), which oversees the entire consumer credit industry, including all the functions and responsibilities of the former Micro-finance Regulatory Council (in the micro-lending context). The NCR is an independent organisation governed by a Board, with a Chief Executive Officer who may appoint inspectors and investigators.\n\nThe NCR has an enormous number of responsibilities. These are set out in great detail in sections 13 to 18 of the Act. It remains to be seen whether or not it will have the necessary capacity to perform all these functions. Its responsibilities include\n\n\nThe National Consumer Tribunal is an independent body, separate from the NCR. It has jurisdiction throughout South Africa, and comprises a chairperson and at least ten other members appointed by the President. A tribunal of record, it conducts its proceedings in public in an informal, inquisitorial manner. It applies principles of natural justice, and has the function of ruling on any matter brought before it in terms of the Act. The Act provides rules of practice, procedure, evidence and a list of possible orders in relation to the Tribunal.\n\nThe powers of the Tribunal are mentioned throughout the Act, the most important of which are\n\n\nThe NCR is required to establish and maintain two important registers:\n\n\nCredit providers, credit bureaux and debt counsellors are required to register with the NCR. Before a credit provider enters into a credit agreement (threshold is R zero) it has to register with the NCR.\n\nThe NCR has the power to suspend or cancel registration in certain circumstances.\n\nAny person may access this register on the NCR website or may obtain a copy of an extract from the register on payment of a fee. Any person may also obtain a copy of a registration certificate on payment of a fee.\n\nCredit providers and credit bureaux were required to register with the NCR by July 28, 2006. Debt counsellors may register at any time.\n\nThe NCR may be required by the Minister to establish a single national register of outstanding credit agreements, but it has not done so yet. Once established, credit providers will have to submit the following information in relation to every credit agreement:\n\n\nCertain information regarding credit agreements entered into prior to the coming into effect of the Act must also be provided. This register will be accessible to any person on application in the prescribed form. It will also provide a way of monitoring South Africa's consumer debt levels, which the NCR is required to do.\n\nA credit bureau is an entity that is engaged for payment in the business of receiving reports or investigating credit applications and agreements, payment history or patterns, and other consumer credit information. Credit bureaux are also in the business of compiling and maintaining data and issuing reports concerning consumers based on this data. As indicated above, credit bureaux were required to register with the NCR by July 28, 2006. Credit bureaux assist credit providers with information that could prevent over-indebtedness of consumers and the granting of reckless credit.\n\nDebt counsellors are not defined in the Act. The NCR's “Debt Counsellor Training Program Learners’ Guide” describes the debt counsellor as “a registrant who is required to do certain tasks stipulated in the Act—including facilitating, investigating, and recommending solutions for over-indebtedness.”\n\nDebt counsellors have a number of functions which appear throughout the Act. The main role of debt counsellors is to evaluate consumers’ indebtedness (upon referral of the consumer by a court, or upon application by the consumer directly to the debt counsellor). The debt counsellor may then recommend to the court\n\n\nThis procedure is explained in more detail below.\n\nDebt counsellors must apply to the NCR to be registered as such. The Act contains a lengthy list of reasons for disqualification as a debt counsellor. In addition, the Regulations provide that debt counsellors must\n\n\nConsumer courts are tribunals established by provincial legislation. The Act allows these courts to be used in various circumstances. There is only one instance where these courts operate at the same level as the National Consumer Tribunal, which is when the NCR refers a complaint to it. Most provinces have introduced their own legislation, but only Gauteng presently has a properly-functioning consumer court.\n\nThe Act uses the gender-neutral term “ombud” (often known as ombudsman). The Act provides that certain disputes between a financial institution (like a bank) and a consumer, arising from a credit agreement, may be referred to the relevant ombud. The ombud will then act as mediator between the institution and the consumer with a complaint.\n\nBefore concluding a credit agreement, the credit provider must give to the consumer, free of charge, a statement and quotation in the form prescribed by the Regulations (Form 20 to the Regulations, in the case of small credit agreements). No agreement is entered into at this stage; the consumer does not have to sign anything or pay any fee. This is a new development in the law, designed to protect consumers. This document must contain the financial details of the proposed agreement (like the amount of credit provided, the number and amount of instalments payable, interest and other fees, deposit required and credit insurance). Consumers must accept or reject the quotation within five days, giving them a chance to shop around for better or cheaper credit. Once the consumer has accepted the quotation, the credit agreement itself can then be concluded.\n\nThe form of the document that records the credit agreement is prescribed by regulation, and varies for different-size credit agreements. The details required for a small credit agreement (a principal debt of less than R15 000) are set out in Form 20.2 to the Regulations. This is not really a form, but rather a framework for the minimum contents of the agreement. These details include\n\n\nThe credit provider must give to the consumer, free of charge, a copy of the signed credit agreement (in paper form or printable electronic form).\n\nCredit agreements may be altered only in very specific circumstances, most importantly in relation to the reduction or increase in credit limits.\n\nMany consumer rights are contained in the Act, but very few rights for credit providers. (By contrast, credit providers have many duties.) The Act is biased towards consumers, because it seeks to redress imbalances inherent in our common law. This is not unusual for legislation of this kind.\n\nEvery adult person has the right to apply for credit, but no-one has the right to be granted credit. A credit grantor may choose to refuse credit for reasonable business reasons, but may not unfairly discriminate against a consumer relative to other consumers on the grounds of race, religion, pregnancy, marital status, ethnic or social origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability, culture, language, etc. A consumer may ask for reasons for the refusal of credit, which must be given by the credit provider in writing.\n\nThe consumer has the right to be given a quotation and credit agreement in an official language that he reads or understands, to the extent that this is reasonable. Any documents where no form is prescribed must be in plain language (language which an ordinary consumer with average literacy skills and minimal credit experience will understand).\n\nCredit bureaux have an important role. For example, they provide credit providers with information on the creditworthiness of consumers. This information could, of course, be damaging to consumers. Credit bureaux are therefore obliged to check with other sources that the information given to them by credit providers is correct. Consumers have the right to have information relating to rescinded judgments expunged (removed) from the records of credit bureaux. Likewise, a consumer who has satisfied all his obligations in terms of a debt rearrangement has the right to have the fact that a debt rearrangement previously existed removed from these records.\n\nA credit provider must advise a debtor before reporting unfavourable information to a credit bureau. Any person may challenge the accuracy of any information reported to or held by a credit bureau. The credit bureau or NCR is then obliged to investigate at no charge and rectify any incorrect information.\n\nThe regulations prescribe maximum periods of time that different categories of consumer credit information may be retained by credit bureaux. For example, civil judgments may be retained for the earliest of\n\n\nAnyone has the right to a free credit bureau report once per year. After that it will cost R20 per enquiry. Two important credit bureaux, with contact numbers, are:\n• ITC — 086 148 2482 (Website: www.mycredit.co.za).\n• Experian — 086 110 5665 (Website: www.creditexpert.co.za)\n\nThe Act contains a number of rules in this regard:\n\n\nCredit bureaux are required to protect the confidentiality of consumer credit information that they hold or report on. Credit providers must also present to consumers the options of being excluded from telemarketing campaigns, marketing or customer lists sold or distributed and mass distribution of e-mail or SMS messages.\n\nIn certain circumstances, consumers may terminate agreements (in writing and properly delivered) within five business days of signing them. This cooling-off right applies only to leases and instalment agreements that are concluded at a location other than the registered business premises of the credit provider. Typically, this right will apply to credit sales on instalments (as in the cases of cars, books, household appliances) concluded at the consumer's home or place of work. The consumer must return the goods bought, and the credit provider must refund amounts paid by the consumer within seven days of termination, less the following:\n\n\nConsumers are entitled to settle their debts in advance at any time, with or without advance notice, after requesting a statement from the credit provider of the amount required to settle the account. No settlement charge is payable for small agreements; interest and other fees are payable only until date of settlement. This means that a consumer may request from the credit provider the balance due, pay the entire amount, and not be penalised for doing so.\n\nThis, however, does not apply to large agreements such as mortgage bonds. If a consumer wishes to settle a bond he must first give notice of cancellation for a period of three months to the credit provider. When a mortgage bond is cancelled, the consumer will be liable for bond cancellation costs.\n\nConsumers may prepay any amount due under a credit agreement (e.g. instalments due) and credit providers are obliged to accept such amounts, even if they are not due. Such payments are used for unpaid interest and fees first, and then to reduce the principal debt.\n\nA consumer may, at any time, return to a credit provider goods that are subject to a credit agreement, whether or not the consumer is in default. The credit provider must then sell the goods and use the proceeds to settle the account. In terms of the former Credit Agreements Act, this procedure applied only when the consumer was in default. This new provision gives the consumer an extraordinary right, enabling him to rid himself of the agreement when he chooses to.\n\nThe following procedure must be followed if the consumer elects to enforce this right:\n\n\nThe Act contains detailed provisions regarding statements of account. The Regulations prescribe the form and content of statements in the case of small agreements. Credit providers must deliver to consumers periodic statements of account, usually once a month (but once every two months for instalment sale agreements).\n\nCredit providers are also obliged to provide consumers with statements of account on request, at no charge. The consumer may choose how the statement must be delivered:\n\n\nCredit providers need not give written statements on demand more than once every three months.\n\nThese provisions are explained in detail below.\n\nIn the case of certain credit agreements (typically instalment agreements), the consumer becomes the owner only once the full purchase price has been paid, and the credit provider has a right to repossession on breach of the agreement. Until then, the credit provider has an interest in the whereabouts of the goods.\n\nThe consumer has a duty to inform the credit provider of any of the following changes:\n\n\nThe consumer must also give to the credit provider or sheriff, on request, the address where the goods are kept, and the name and address of the landlord of the premises.\n\nThe credit provider's most important rights are\n\n\nA credit provider may suspend a credit facility (like a credit card or cheque account) at any time if the consumer is in default, or otherwise close the facility on ten business days’ notice.\n\nA credit provider who has incurred costs in the attachment of goods while enforcing a debt may ask a court to order the consumer to pay the costs of attachment. The court will make such an order only if the consumer provided false information about his address or the location of the goods.\n\nEvery consumer right entails a duty on the part of credit providers. The duties on credit providers are onerous; they provide many administrative burdens. Some of the credit provider's more important duties are\n\n\nOver-indebtedness is frequently a disastrous consequence of the high cost of credit. Levenstein summarises this state of affairs:\n\nUnfortunately, in South Africa, too many people with too little money have been given too much credit. This ultimately leads to over-indebtedness which results in a never-ending circle of frustration for the consumer who can never repay his debts.\n\nThe Department of Trade and Industry's 2004 policy framework describes credit as “a double-edged sword:”\n\nWhilst credit allows access to products or services that cannot be acquired out of a single month’s income, it can also be a dangerous instrument that can lead to high levels of debt and indebtedness.\nIt is quite easy for credit to lead to financial hardship and destroy a household’s wealth. Taking on extra loans in order to pay back existing loans can lead people into a debt spiral out of which it may be difficult to escape. Over-indebtedness has a negative impact on families and has in some extreme cases even led to family suicides. Over-indebtedness further has an impact upon the workplace, can lead to de-motivation, absenteeism and even a propensity to commit theft.\n\nA Human Sciences Research Council survey on household indebtedness in South Africa showed that, in 2000, over sixty per cent of the regular disposable income of households earning less than R5,000 per year was used to service debt: that is, to pay interest on debt. Levels of indebtedness increased by more than 200 per cent between 1995 and 2000 in the poorest households, with incomes of less than R25,000 per year. This trend seems to have continued since.\n\nIt has been argued that consumers are often to blame for allowing themselves to become over-indebted by unwisely borrowing too much money, or by buying too much on credit. This is usually the result of economic desperation and lack of understanding of the difficulties of repaying or servicing their debt. Credit providers are, however, often to blame for recklessly giving too much credit to consumers who cannot afford to service their debt. One of the most important objectives of the Act is to combat over-indebtedness and reckless credit granting. Sections 78 to 88 of the Act contain detailed, far-reaching and extremely important provisions in this regard.\n\nA consumer is over-indebted if the available information indicates that the consumer is unable to pay the amounts due under a credit agreement in time. When deciding whether or not a consumer is over-indebted, a court must consider the consumer's\n\n\nIn any court proceedings, a court may declare a consumer to be over-indebted. Alternatively, a debt counsellor may have a role in one of two ways:\n\n\nA debt review must then take place. The debt counsellor must notify all credit providers and credit bureaux listed in the application; they must co-operate fully with the debt counsellor. The debt counsellor must then evaluate the consumer's indebtedness. The evaluation can have one of three possible results:\n\n\nA credit agreement may be declared to be reckless only if the consumer is found to be over- indebted. If the debt counsellor finds that the consumer is not over-indebted, but is of the view that one or more credit agreements are reckless, these agreements may not be declared to be reckless. Credit providers may therefore still enforce credit agreements that are in fact reckless, but they may not be formally declared to be reckless.\n\nWhile this process is under way, a consumer may not use his credit facility (for example, his credit card); nor may he enter into another credit agreement. A credit provider who enters into a credit agreement with a consumer while the consumer is under debt review runs the risk of the credit agreement's being declared reckless credit.\n\nAlso, if a consumer is in default under a credit agreement, and the credit provider has already commenced debt-enforcement proceedings, that agreement may not be subject to the debt review. This could encourage credit providers to start proceedings to recover debt earlier than they otherwise might have done.\n\nThe debt-review procedure might well be used by shrewd consumers to delay or avoid payment under a credit agreement. This is so because there are many provisions in the Act which limit the rights of credit providers to enforce debts under review. However, if the consumer is in default under a credit agreement subject to review, the credit provider may give notice to the consumer, the debt counsellor and the NCR to terminate the review. This notice may be given at least sixty days after the date of application for debt review: that is, if the debt-review process is dragging on too long. The credit provider may then take steps to enforce the agreement. The court then has the discretion to order that the debt review resume if appropriate. Finally, it should be noted that an application for debt review by a consumer has serious implications for the consumer as to his creditworthiness and the conclusion of future agreements.\n\nA credit provider must not enter into a reckless credit agreement with a consumer. Before entering into a credit agreement, a credit provider must first take reasonable steps to assess the consumer's\n\n\nA credit agreement is reckless\n\n\nThis provision helps to prevent credit providers from taking shortcuts by simply accepting seemingly creditworthy debtors at face value. A credit provider may use its own assessment mechanisms, provided these are fair and objective. The consumer, in turn, must fully and truthfully provide the requested information. Failure by the consumer to do so could provide the credit provider with a complete defence to an allegation of reckless credit granting.\n\nIn any proceedings that concern credit agreements, a court may declare that a credit agreement is reckless, in which case the court may make an order\n\n\nIf a court declares that a specific credit agreement is reckless, it must also decide whether or not the consumer is over-indebted at the time of the court proceedings. All the debt of the consumer must be considered. If the court finds the consumer to be over-indebted, it may make an order\n\n\nWhile an agreement is suspended (not set aside),\n\n\nAfter the period of suspension ends, all the parties’ rights and obligations are revived and become enforceable again. However, interest or fees that would normally have accrued during the period of suspension may not be charged to the consumer. This is a drastic remedy indeed.\n\nThe reckless-credit provisions do not apply to a number of credit agreements, including\n\n\nA student loan, for example, could be granted to an unemployed consumer, who might not have a credit record (so that the credit provider does not know his payment history). The consumer might not be creditworthy, and there is no security. The nature of these agreements excludes them from being reckless lending.\n\nThe negative results for credit providers of either\n\n\nare serious. Many of the provisions are designed to penalise credit providers. Credit providers will be very careful to reduce the risk of bad debt. These provisions are therefore likely to reduce over-indebtedness and reckless credit granting, at least in the formal sector. A negative result for consumers, however, could be that credit grantors will be much more reluctant to grant credit in the future, and that, therefore, fewer people will be able to access credit. Further, this could lead to an increase in the number of unregistered and illegal credit providers.\n\nIt is critical that one understand the full implications of the new cost-of-credit provisions in the\nNational Credit Act and Regulations.\n\nUntil June 1, 2007, the Usury Act (which has now been repealed by the National Credit Act) prescribed limits on the interest rates that credit providers could charge. Until this date, the maximum interest rate was twenty per cent per year on all credit agreements up to R10,000 and seventeen per cent per year on credit agreements over R10,000. However, registered micro-lenders were made exempt from the Usury Act from 1992, meaning that they were entitled to charge whatever interest rates they liked. This resulted in exorbitant interest rates, with micro-lenders charging typically thirty per cent per month (or 360 per cent per year)—eighteen times more than the limit of twenty per cent per year for other credit. Because of the enormous profits that micro-lenders could make, the industry spiralled out of control, growing rapidly year-on-year. In the three years between September 2003 and August 2006, for example, industry disbursements more than doubled. The industry grew by an average of over thirty per cent per year. For the twelve months ending August 2006, the total Rand-value of loans disbursed in the registered micro-finance sector was over R30,000,000,000.\n\nExcessive interest rates have caused terrible socio-economic hardships and suffering for low-income individuals and communities. A high percentage of personal income is used to service micro-lending debt, leaving very little of borrowers’ personal income to pay for other household expenses. Borrowers on thirty-day loans in particular are very soon caught in debt traps from which they are unable to escape. Tens of billions are lost to lower-income communities in the form of interest on micro-loans every year, contributing to the perpetuation of poverty.\n\nLevels of indebtedness are high and appear to be increasing. The problem of over-indebtedness is made worse by high levels of consumption finance and consumer ignorance and illiteracy. (32 per cent of the adult population of South Africa were functionally illiterate in 2001.) By allowing the micro-lending industry to function without legislated and enforced interest-rate limits since 1992, the Government effectively made possible the exploitation of the ignorance of lower-income communities, which arguably amounted to legislated economic abuse.\n\nThe National Credit Act prescribes limits on interest rates for all forms of credit, including micro-loans. However, the Act introduces other fees (the initiation fee and the service fee) which cause the total cost of credit to remain extremely high. No longer is it sufficient to consider only interest rates. Interest rates, initiation fees and service fees must all be carefully calculated in order to work out the total cost of credit for borrowers. The new cost-of-credit provisions came into force on June 1, 2007.\n\nDifferent interest rates apply to different categories of credit agreements:\n\n“Short-term credit transactions” are agreements up to R8,000 repayable within six months; usually these are micro-loans. The maximum interest rate permitted is five per cent per month, or sixty per cent per year.\n\n“Unsecured credit transactions” are agreements for which there is no security for the debt at all (like loans or sales on credit). There is no limit on the amount or repayment period. Unsecured agreements for more than R8,000 and/or repayable over more than six months fall into this category. The maximum interest rate is linked to the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) Repurchase Rate ((Repurchase Rate x 2.2) + 20% per year), and is currently 39,8 per cent per year (based on the current repo rate of nine per cent). This maximum rate is nearly double the maximum permissible rate in terms of the Usury Act that applied until May 31, 2007 (20 per cent per year). Sales of furniture, for example, could now cost twice as much to service.\n\nSecured bank loans, credit card or cheque accounts fall under the category “credit facility.” The maximum interest rate is also linked to the SARB Bank Repurchase Rate, and is currently 29.8 per cent per year.\n\n“Developmental credit agreements” are credit agreements entered into to develop a small business, an educational loan, or a loan for purposes of building low-cost housing. The maximum interest rate is 38.8% per year.\n\nFor mortgage bond agreements, the maximum interest rate is 24.9 per cent per year.\n\nThe initiation fee is intended to cover the costs of initiating a credit agreement, although it is not clear exactly what costs the fee is intended to cover. It is a once-off payment made by the consumer on conclusion of the credit agreement or payable in instalments (as a separate loan attracting interest).\n\nThe maximum initiation fee in terms of the Regulations is R150 per credit agreement, plus ten per cent of the amount of the agreement in excess of R1,000, but never to exceed R1,000. Also, the initiation fee may never exceed fifteen per cent of the principal debt.\n\nIt will be extremely difficult for consumers to find the necessary cash to pay the initiation fee up front at a time when they are taking out a loan precisely because they are in need of cash. Most lenders will thus be unable to afford to pay the initiation fee on taking out a loan, particularly in the case of the very poor borrowing for consumption purposes. These people will thus be forced to allow the initiation fee to be capitalised and re-paid, probably in the same number of instalments as the initial loan, and subject to the same interest rate as the initial loan. The result will be that the effective monthly cost of credit will increase.\n\nThe service fee is defined as a fee that may be charged periodically (usually monthly) by a credit provider in connection with the routine administrative cost of maintaining a credit agreement. The maximum service fee in terms of the Regulations is R50 per month, or R600 per year. The same “flat-rate” maximum service fee of R50 is applicable to all categories and sizes of credit agreements. It appears that the service fee was standardised in order to simplify the application of the Act, justifiable on the basis that every loan, no matter what its size, needs to be administered.\n\nThe smaller the loan, the more expensive will be the service fee relative to the loan. When this cost is shown as a percentage, it is clear that the service fee adds significantly to the cost of the loan, increasing rapidly with smaller and smaller loan amounts. The “flat-rate” service fee of R50 per month is exorbitant in the case of small loans of less than R1,000 and is still too high in the case of loans up to R5,000.\n\nThis result is so unfair that borrowers of very small loans (who are almost invariably from the poorest communities) will be discriminated against. The Act itself provides that the service fee must vary relative to the principal debt: that is, that it should be higher for bigger loans, and lower for smaller loans. This is not so. The Regulations should be amended to set the service fee at a percentage of the loan amount, subject to both a minimum and a maximum rand amount (as is the case for the initiation fee). Alternatively, the service fee should be scrapped on smaller credit agreements, and the maximum interest rate increased if necessary. If the service fee is not amended or scrapped, then it should be challenged in court.\n\nThe prescribed interest rates and fees are maximum amounts only. The Department of Trade and Industry hopes that the credit industry will not “jump to the maximum rates”, and has said that it has the power to adjust these rates quickly if necessary.\n\nThe micro-lending industry in particular was born and grew on the strength of exorbitant interest rates, and many micro-lenders will struggle to stay in business with the new limits in place. It is therefore very likely that most lenders will charge the maximum rates of interest and fees to keep their profits as high as possible. Bigger lenders such as banks, on the other hand, are able to afford to be competitive, and are likely to charge lower rates.\n\nThe drastic reduction in interest rates has the effect of masking or obscuring the true total cost of credit when the initiation and service fees are added. It is possible that these fees could to a large extent remain hidden, with the emphasis being placed on interest rates (which are more familiar to consumers) when products are marketed. The fees help to keep interest rates lower, which makes credit look cheaper, when in fact credit may not be cheaper. The skewing of credit costs away from interest and towards fees (which are not familiar to consumers) will increase the chances of consumers’ being misled as to the actual cost of credit. Many will be lured into borrowing money which will cost much more than they had initially expected. It is essential that paralegals understand the danger of this masking of the true cost of credit, in order to be able to warn their clients of this danger.\n\nThe new credit limits have a negative impact on smaller loans. The smaller the loan, the more expensive it is. A one-month loan of R500 will cost about the same as the typical thirty per cent per month charged prior to the Act. Smaller loans will be even more expensive than that. A R200 loan will cost 46 per cent per month (552 per cent per year), which is more than nine times the maximum interest of five per cent per month.\n\nThe positive impact of capped interest rates, furthermore, is negated by the high maximum initiation and service fees.\n\nThe impact of the initiation and service fees on smaller loans amounts to a skewing of the cost of credit away from interest and towards these fees, so that interest decreases relative to these fees. This skewing has the dangerous effect of masking the true cost of credit from the consumer, and of misleading the consumer.\n\nA more equitable result could be achieved by removing or reducing the initiation and service fees, reducing the maximum permissible interest rate, and reducing the maximum size amount of short-term credit transactions. This will require amendments to the Regulations.\n\nThe new structure for costing of credit will work best for the biggest credit advances, in excess of R8,000. The cost of credit on agreements of less than R1,000 is comparable with the typical thirty per cent per month charged with no interest limits on small loans, The vast majority of borrowers of micro-loans are from low-income groups. The poorest households carry the greatest debt-servicing burden. Low-income individuals and communities who borrow small amounts are therefore likely to continue to suffer the same devastating socio-economic hardships referred to above, contributing to the perpetuation of poverty.\n\nBorrowers of one-month loans are most vulnerable, since these loans are much more expensive than other short-term loans. Low-income borrowers are usually unable to afford to pay back these loans at the end of the month; repeated loans have often to be taken out to fund in full the re-payment of previous loans. Borrowers are caught in debt spirals and subsequent debt traps, with the disastrous consequence that borrowers in effect remain permanently indebted.\n\nThe National Credit Act has made great strides towards consumer protection, and the new limits on interest rates will provide welcome relief for many borrowers. The combined effect of interest, the initiation fee and the service fee will, however, cause the cost of credit on small loans to remain exorbitant. This will have a devastating negative impact on poorer individuals and communities.\n\nThe Act provides only a relatively short list of offences that attract criminal penalties. By contrast, the Usury Act provided that any person who contravenes any provision of the Act commits an offence. Thus, for example, it was a criminal offence to charge interest higher than the Usury Act maximum, which is no longer the case.\n\nHowever, the Act does provide a number of civil legal remedies for consumers, some of which are drastic departures from previous law. The most important of these remedies are outlined below.\n\nSection 89 lists a number of credit agreements that are unlawful, including\n\n\nIf a credit agreement is found to be unlawful, a court must order\n\n\nThe credit provider will not get back the money lent or property sold, and the court does not have a discretion to order this. This is a drastic remedy and a departure from the common law. It was not previously available in the case of unregistered micro-lenders, and is a significant new remedy readily available to consumers.\n\nThus, for example, a court will be able to declare a loan from an unregistered micro-lender to be void (if the Act requires the micro-lender to be registered), and order the micro-lender to refund all instalments paid, with interest. Furthermore, the court must order that the loan amount paid to the consumer be retained by the borrower or forfeited to the State. The amount loaned is therefore lost to the unregistered micro-lender altogether.\n\nSection 90 lists numerous provisions of credit agreements (as opposed to the entire agreements) that are unlawful and not permitted. They are too many to list here. The list is broadly-worded and far-reaching; many of the provisions will probably be open to a wide range of interpretations, which is likely to lead to uncertainty. For example, a provision is unlawful if its general purpose or effect is to defeat the purposes or policies of the Act, or to “deceive” the consumer. Further, a provision is unlawful\n\n\nAn unlawful provision is void. Whenever a court has a matter before it which concerns a credit agreement that contains an unlawful provision, the court may\n\n\nThe consumer alleging the unlawful provision is entitled to apply to court for orders in these terms.\n\nThus, for example, if a credit agreement for the sale of furniture provides for interest or fees in excess of the maximum amounts permissible, a court must declare the offending provisions to be void and enforce the remainder of the agreement. However, it seems that the court may be able to declare the entire agreement void, order the furniture shop to refund all amounts paid, and order that the furniture sold be retained by the borrower or forfeited to the State.\n\nThe Act has codified the in duplum rule for the first time in South Africa's legislative history, and extended the rule further to include all credit costs. This rule states that, while a consumer is in default, all credit costs will stop being added to the debt when their total equals the unpaid balance of the principal debt. It is likely that increased use will be made of the rule since it has been legislated. It must be remembered, however, that it will apply only when the consumer is in default.\n\nOther legal remedies for consumers already discussed above include\n\n\nIf the Act has been contravened, a person has one of two options:\n\n\nThe Act contains detailed provisions regarding the role of the NCR. Complaints to the NCR must be lodged by completing and submitting to the NCR Form 29 to the Regulations. The NCR may resolve complaints lodged with it; the resolution may become a consent order by a court or the Tribunal. The NCR may also refer the dispute to a debt counsellor, an ombud with jurisdiction or a consumer court. After investigating the matter, the NCR may refer the matter to a provincial consumer court or the Tribunal for an order allowed by the Act.\n\nAlternatively, disputes may be referred for resolution directly to the relevant ombud if the credit provider is a financial institution (like a bank), to a consumer court or to an alternative dispute resolution agent. With the consent of the parties, the resolution may be recorded in writing and made an order of court or the Tribunal.\n\nIn his book \"The National Credit Act Explained\", Otto concludes,\n\nAll in all, the muscle of the National Credit Regulator, the far-reaching powers of the National Consumer Tribunal and the courts, the almost paternalistic protective inclination of the legislature, and the extensive network of dispute-solving account for consumer legislation that is going to have a huge impact on the enormous credit industry in South Africa.\n\nThe Act limits the credit provider's common-law rights to enforce debt: that is, to claim what is due in terms of the credit agreement. This is in line with international consumer legislation, but the Act's provisions have been criticised as being unusually cumbersome and detrimental to credit providers.\n\nIf a consumer is in default, the credit provider must notify the consumer of his default in writing. This is effectively a letter of demand. The notice must do more, however: The credit provider must propose to the consumer that the consumer refer the credit agreement to, among others, a debt counsellor to resolve the dispute or agree on a plan to get payments up to date.\n\nAs regards the method of delivery of the written default notice, the consumer may choose to be informed in one or more of these ways:\n\n\nMust the default notice actually reach the consumer to be effective? The Constitutional Court held in Sebola v Standard Bank that the Act, although it gives no clear meaning to “deliver,” requires that the credit provider, in seeking to enforce a credit agreement, must aver and prove that the notice was delivered to the consumer. Where the credit provider posts the notice, proof of registered despatch to the address of the consumer, together with proof that the notice reached the appropriate post office for delivery to the consumer, will constitute sufficient proof of delivery (in the absence of contrary indication).\n\nA credit provider may go to court to enforce a credit agreement only if\n\n\nThe twenty days and ten days referred to above may run concurrently: that is, the ten-day period may occur during the 20-day period.\n\nWhere a case has been referred to the National Consumer Tribunal, debt counsellor, ombud, alternative-dispute-resolution agent or consumer court, or the credit agreement is subject to a debt review, the court will adjourn the case.\n\nA much larger number of requests for default judgment on credit agreements now have to be referred to a magistrate, rather than being dealt with by the clerk of the court. This will greatly increase the workload of the magistrates, and could cause debt enforcement procedures to take much longer, resulting in frustration for credit providers.\n\nIf a credit provider properly cancels a credit agreement, the court may order the attachment of the goods, allowing for the sale of the goods to settle the account. This procedure follows the usual common law.\n\nIf the proceeds of the sale are not sufficient to settle the account, the credit provider may approach the court for an order to recover the outstanding balance. This applies in the case of the instalment agreement, secured loan or lease. Strangely absent from this list is the mortgage agreement. This implies that the mortgagee (a bank, usually) will be able to rely only on the proceeds of the sale of the property to settle the account—even if this is insufficient, and even if the mortgagor (the debtor) is very wealthy and has other assets that could be attached.\n\nCommon practice is that a credit provider asks the court for an “interim attachment order,” pending cancellation of the agreement, in order to protect goods at risk (like a motor car) from deterioration or damage. This order will allow the sheriff to attach the goods for safekeeping until such time as the court action is finalised, which can take a long time. It is not clear from the Act whether or not credit providers will still be able to obtain interim attachment orders. The past practice of obtaining such orders may well continue.\n\nAt any time before cancellation, a consumer may reinstate a credit agreement that is in default by paying all amounts overdue, plus default charges and the costs of enforcing the debt to date. The consumer may then repossess property attached, but not if the goods have already been sold.\n\nThe consumer may choose at any time to surrender the goods that are subject to the credit agreement, whether or not the consumer is in default. This provision is discussed in detail above.\n\nA credit provider may not use an identity document, credit or debit card, access card or PIN to enforce a credit agreement or collect on the agreement. A contravention of this provision is a criminal offence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1746844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1746844", "title": "David Thomson, 3rd Baron Thomson of Fleet", "text": "David Thomson, 3rd Baron Thomson of Fleet\n\nDavid Kenneth Roy Thomson, 3rd Baron Thomson of Fleet (born 12 June 1957) is a Canadian hereditary peer and media magnate. Upon the death of his father in 2006, Thomson became the chairman of Thomson Corporation and also inherited his father's British title, Baron Thomson of Fleet. After the acquisition of Reuters in 2008, Thomson became the chairman of the merged entity, Thomson Reuters.\n\nAs of July 2018, Thomson is listed as one of the wealthiest people in the world, with an estimated net worth of $25 billion.\n\nHe is the eldest child of the late Kenneth Thomson, 2nd Baron Thomson of Fleet and his wife, the late Marilyn Lavis. His sister is Taylor Thomson and his brother is Peter Thomson, a venture capitalist and race car driver.\n\nIn 1978, Thomson received his Bachelor of Arts (subsequently upgraded to an MA (Cantab)) at Selwyn College, University of Cambridge where he studied history. As a child, he attended both Upper Canada College and the Hall School.He was also a part of New England.\n\nThomson started his business career as a junior associate at McLeod Young Weir in Toronto. He left the firm to enter the family business, working in a number of positions in companies controlled by the Thomson family. Thomson was manager of The Bay store at Cloverdale Mall in Etobicoke, and president of Zellers. In an effort to develop his independence, Thomson founded the real estate firm Osmington Incorporated, owned and operated outside of the Thomson empire. Osmington acquires and manages commercial real estate assets on behalf of institutional shareholders. In 2010, Osmington sold its stake in eight retail properties to the Canada Pension Plan for $336 million. Osmington is a major investor in FarmersEdge, a precision agriculture company. Osmington is also a partner in True North Sports and Entertainment, owners of the National Hockey League's Winnipeg Jets and the Bell MTS Place in downtown Winnipeg, Manitoba. Osmington is redeveloping the retail space of Toronto's Union Station. Thomson's investment activities are managed through Toronto hedge fund Morgan Bay Capital, which he created with longtime financial advisor, foreign exchange trader and \"consigliere\", Patrick M. Phillips, vice president of Woodbridge, the Thomson family holding company.\n\nAccording to a plan devised decades ago by Thomson Corporation founder Roy Thomson, when Kenneth Thomson died (in June 2006), control of the family fortune passed on to David.\n\nFollowing Thomson Reuter's sale of a controlling stake in its financial business in 2018, Thomson expressed frustrations working in the family business. He is currently engaged in discussions with family members to leave the family business, Thomson Reuters, to focus on his own art and real estate activities. \n\n\"David, my grandson, will have to take his part in the running of the Organisation and David's son, too,\" Roy Thomson wrote in his 1975 autobiography. \"With the fortune that we will leave to them go also responsibilities. These Thomson boys that come after Ken are not going to be able, even if they want to, to shrug off these responsibilities.\"\n\nThomson is a noted art collector and owns works by Rembrandt, J. M. W. Turner, Paul Klee, Hammershoi, Edvard Munch, Patrick Heron, Joseph Beuys, E. L. Kirchner, and Egon Schiele. Thomson owns the world's largest collection of paintings and drawings by the English painter John Constable. In an interview with Geraldine Norman in \"The Independent\" in 1994, Thomson said he bought his first Constable drawing at 19, giving the seller \"an oil painting in exchange and quite a lot of money\". Norman described him as a \"fanatical collector\", and Thomson described how he \"fell in love\" with Constable's style as a young child. In his twenties, Thomson stunned the art world with two monumental purchases. In 1984, he acquired J. M. W. Turner's spectacular 'Seascape: Folkestone\", for a record £7.3 million (£21.8 million in 2017) from the sale of the collection of noted British art historian Kenneth Clark. The following year, Thomson, 27, broke another world record when he bought Rembrandt's monumental \"Christ Presented to the People\", from 1655, for a record £561,000 (£1.7 million in 2017) at Christie's London, when the Duke of Devonshire sold the Chatsworth Collection in one of the largest auctions of the time. Thomson sold both masterpieces within a few years during the 1980s financial crisis.\n\nIn 2002, Thomson and his father paid a world record price of $76.7 million to acquire Rubens' \"Massacre of the Innocents\", now the centrepiece of the Thomson Collection at the Art Gallery of Ontario. In 2012, Thomson shattered records buying a painting by Danish artist Vilhelm Hammershoi, \"Ida Reading a Letter\", paying the highest price ever for a Danish artist. In 2012, Thomson broke the record for the most expensive 18th-century British watercolour when he paid £2.4 million for a small landscape by John Robert Cozens.\n\nThomson is an active acquirer of Canadian art. In 2007, Thomson paid $1.8 million for a face mask, the highest price ever paid for a single piece of Native North American art. An in November, 2016 he paid a record C$11.2 million to buy a painting at auction by Group of Seven artist Lawren Harris entitled \"Mountain Forms\". \n\nThomson operates his collecting activities through his personal Thomson Works of Art. Thomson also funds the Archive of Modern Conflict, based in London. Specialists within the archive purchase photography collections worldwide and also run a book-publishing arm, AMC Books, which has a Canadian imprint, Bone Idle Books, based in Toronto.\n\nThomson is the father of six children from four different mothers. With his first wife, Mary Lou La Prairie, he has two daughters: Thyra Nicole and Tessa Lys. With his second wife, Laurie Ludwick, Thomson has one son, Benjamin, born after Thomson left the marriage. With the actress Kelly Rowan, Thomson has a daughter, Braeylin, born after Thomson left the relationship. With his partner Severine Nackers, an employee of Sotheby's in London, Thomson has two daughters, Ottilie, born in 2015, and Elodie, born in 2018. None of the children live with their father. Thomson was estranged from his eldest daughter, Thyra, for five years, with Thyra eventually suing her father over mismanagement of the family trusts. The case was settled out of court in 2017. Thomson lives alone in a private residence that also houses an underground art gallery, in Rosedale, Toronto. Three of his children live in London, UK, where Thomson retains several homes. \nThomson is a patron of the Art Gallery of Ontario. With the death of his father, he became the 3rd Baron Thomson of Fleet on 12 June 2006, his 49th birthday. He does not use this title in Canada. He is an avid art collector and owns the world's top collection of John Constable.\n\nThomson has rarely given interviews to the press and maintains a low public profile. \"The only substantial interview he has given was to James FitzGerald, who wrote a book about the elite private school (Upper Canada College) they both attended in Toronto\", according to a July 3, 2006, article in \"The New York Times\". \"In his comments to Mr. FitzGerald 12 years ago, David had little positive to say about many people in the business world\". In the interview, Thomson said: \"When you try to live a more balanced life, traditional businessmen think that you are not a real man. But who is not the real man? You are telling me? You have not taken a weekend with your wife, you have no spare time that you use constructively, you do not have any hobbies, you do not know how to spell Mozart. And here you are telling me that I am weak?\" He resides in Toronto, Ontario.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42641502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42641502", "title": "Dmytro Tymchuk", "text": "Dmytro Tymchuk\n\nDmytro Borysovych Tymchuk (, born 27 June 1972) is a Member of parliament of Ukraine, a Ukrainian military expert and blogger, an officer of Ukrainian military reserve (\"підполковник\"), and one of the coordinators of the \"Information Resistance\" blog. During the ongoing 2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine, he became one of the most popular Ukrainian online activists and was extensively cited on the situation in the country.\n\nIn 2014 Tymchuk was elected to the Ukrainian parliament for People's Front.\n\nTymchuk was born 27 June 1972 in Chita, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union. From 1978 to 1983, he lived in the German Democratic Republic due to his father's service in the Soviet Army and then moved to Berdychiv, Ukrainian SSR, where he spent the rest of his youth. (Both Russia and Ukraine were part of the Soviet Union from 1920 until Ukraine declared its independence from the Soviet Union on 24 August 1991.) In 1995, Tymchuk graduated from the Faculty of Journalism of the Lviv Higher Military-Political School.\n\nTymchuk served in the Ukrainian army from 1995 to 1997 and then worked at the headquarters of the National Guard of Ukraine until 2000. From 2000 to 2012, he worked in various divisions of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine. He served in Iraq, Kosovo, and Lebanon. His highest military rank is Lieutenant colonel.\n\nIn 2008, Tymchuk became the chief editor of the online publication \"Fleet-2017\" and head of the NGO \"Center for Military-Political Studies\". He is one of the coordinators of the \"Information Resistance\" news website. During the 2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine and war in Donbass, Tymchuk became one of the most popular Ukrainian online activists in Ukraine and was extensively cited on the situation in the country. In November 2014, the number of those following his Facebook page exceeded 190,000 IP addresses.\n\nTymchuk became a founding member of the new party People's Front on 10 September 2014, 46 days before the 2014 Ukrainian parliamentary election. He was elected to the Verkhovna Rada (Ukrainian parliament).\n\n"}
{"id": "3070719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3070719", "title": "EastPark, Kentucky", "text": "EastPark, Kentucky\n\nEastPark is a 1000-acre (4 km²) industrial park located in the state of Kentucky, United States, at the junction of Boyd, Greenup, and Carter counties, although most of the park resides in Greenup County. The park is operated by the Northeast Kentucky Regional Industrial Park Authority. The site of the park was donated to the state of Kentucky by Addington Enterprises from reclaimed land that had once been used as a strip mine. The state of Kentucky used the donated land to build the park and a two-lane highway, now known as the Industrial Parkway (Kentucky Route 67) This proved to be beneficial to both Addington and the state, as the land was not able to be developed without the road and it provided a way to connect US 23 in Greenup County to Interstate 64. The park has a convenient location, as it is located where Interstate 64 and KY 67 intersect. EastPark is also connected to a port on the Ohio River in Wurtland, Kentucky, via KY 67.\n\nEastPark is located in the Huntington-Ashland, WV-KY-OH, Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA). As of the 2000 census, the MSA had a population of 288,649.\n\nEastPark is divided into two sections. Businesses located off of EastPark Drive include:\n\nBusinesses located off Technology Drive include:\n\n"}
{"id": "31587250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31587250", "title": "Eldon R. Clingan", "text": "Eldon R. Clingan\n\nEldon R. Clingan is an American accountant and former Liberal Party of New York politician from New York City.\n\nClingan served in the New York City Council representing a Manhattan, New York at-large district from 1970 to 1973. He served as Minority Leader of that body from also from 1970 to 1973 and helped to introduce Intro 475, civil rights legislation that would have prohibited discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. The bill was defeated.\n\nIn later years Clingan served as the President of the National Society of Accountants from 2004 to 2005.\n"}
{"id": "23825719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23825719", "title": "Faras Hamdan", "text": "Faras Hamdan\n\nFaras Hamdan (; , born 1910, died 29 November 1966) was an Israeli Arab politician who served as a member of the Knesset for Agriculture and Development between 1951 and 1959.\n\nHamdan was born in Baqa al-Gharbiyye during the Ottoman era. In 1944 he was elected head of local council of his village, where he later established a citrus confectionery factory.\n\nIn 1951 he was elected to the Knesset as head of the Agriculture and Development list, which was associated with the ruling Mapai party. The party joined David Ben-Gurion's government, but Hamdan did not receive a ministerial portfolio.\n\nHe was re-elected in 1955, and again joined the governing coalition. For the 1959 elections the party was headed by Mahmud A-Nashaf. It won only one seat and Hamdan lost his place in the Knesset.\n\nHe died in 1966.\n"}
{"id": "24717959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24717959", "title": "Forced labor of Germans after World War II", "text": "Forced labor of Germans after World War II\n\nIn the years following World War II, large numbers of German civilians and captured soldiers were forced into labour by the Allied forces. The topic of using Germans as forced labour for reparations was first broached at the Tehran conference in 1943, where Soviet premier Joseph Stalin demanded 4,000,000 German workers.\n\nForced labour was also included in the final protocol of the Yalta conference in January 1945, where it was sanctioned by UK Prime Minister Winston Churchill and US President Franklin D. Roosevelt.\n\nThe largest group of forced laborers in the Soviet Union consisted of several million German prisoners of war. Most German POW survivors of the forced labor camps in the Soviet Union were released in 1953. Forced labour of Germans occurred well into the 1960’s\n\nEstimates of German POW casualties (in both East and West and cumulative for both the war and peace-time period) range from 600,000 to 1,000,000. According to the section of the German Red Cross dealing with tracing the captives, the ultimate fate of 1,300,000 German POWs in Allied custody is still unknown; they are still officially listed as missing.\n\nThe capture and transfer of civilian ethnic Germans to the Soviet Union began as soon as countries with a German minority began to be overrun in 1944. Large numbers of civilians were taken from countries such as Romania, Yugoslavia, and from the eastern parts of Germany itself. For example, after Christmas 1944 between 27,000 and 30,000 ethnic Germans (aged 18–40) were sent to the USSR from Yugoslavia. Women made up 90% of the group. Most were sent to labor camps in the Donbass (Donets or Donez basin) where 16% of them died.\n\nMany ethnic Germans living within the Polish pre-war borders, prior to their expulsion, were used for years as forced labor in labor camps such as that run by Salomon Morel. Among these camps were Central Labour Camp Jaworzno, Central Labour Camp Potulice, Łambinowice, Zgoda labour camp and others. The law authorising forced labour, Article 20 of the law on the exclusion of the enemy elements from society, also removed rights to Polish citizenship and all property owned.\n\nThe many camps were used during the process of the expulsions for the sake of \"rehabilitating\" Reichs- or Volksdeutsche, to decide if they could stay or go, but in reality this was a program of slave labor. Roughly 200,000 ethnic Germans died in the Soviet run concentration camps in Poland.\n\nOthers were still amongst the rest of the population, but the Polish government had made several declarations that the German population should be exploited as forced labor, instructing a minimum of 60 hours work per week with no rights for breaks. The salaries were insufficient for survival, usually 25 or 50 percent of Polish salaries.\n\nThe German-speaking population of the Sudetenland was, in the same case as Poland, expelled after the war. The expulsion was not indiscriminate, however, since as late as 1947, large numbers of skilled German workmen were still being detained. Germans were forced to wear a white armband with the letter \"N\", for \"Němec\" signifying German in Czech to identify them (even German Jews had to wear it).\n\nCzech Deputy Premier Petr Mareš has in the past, in vain, tried to arrange compensation for ethnic Germans who were forcibly resettled or used as forced labour after the war.\n\nMany Germans in what would become East Germany were forced by the Communist authorities to work in German uranium mines producing the majority of the raw material of the Soviet atomic bomb project. Beginning in the summer of 1946 the Soviets began explorations in the Erzgebirge, and sealing off the old radium hot springs by September of the same year. An initial workforce of four to five thousand was established, with another 20,000 called for by the end of the year. The work was dangerous and stressful and the Soviets made no effort to improve it; as a result the mines became filled with forced labor conscripts and has been compared to a death march and the Gulags of Kolyma. Quotas were repeatedly set and raised, and conscription took place without regard to health or work experience - mines became staffed with office workers, craftsmen and students with no mining experience. By 1948 workers were pulled away from factories and criminals from jails to staff the mines, as were POWs returning to Germany from the Soviet Union. Housing lagged behind the burgeoning workers (with many regions doubling in population between 1946 and 1951), worsening already difficult conditions. The mines were considered worse than a penal colony, but were controlled directly by Moscow and local governments were unable to help. When an extra 60,000 workers were called for in the summer of 1947, a wave of potential workers flooded into West Germany to avoid the mines including many citizens who would otherwise prefer to live in the communist East. Workers who began as volunteers were turned into forced labourers. In an effort to increase the number of labourers, women were increasingly recruited to the non-segregated mines, many of whom brought or were infected with venereal diseases, and were sexually exploited by the Russian guards. Workers who attempted to escape, whether conscripts or volunteers, were hunted down and returned to the mines. Eventually Germans would become more involved in the running of the mines, forming a joint company with Russia in 1956.\n\nContrary to Section IV of the Hague Convention of 1907, \"The Laws and Customs of War on Land\", the SHAEF \"counter insurgency manual\" included provisions for forced labor and hostage taking.\n\nGerman prisoners were forced to clear minefields in France and the Low Countries.\n\nAccording to Simon MacKenzie, \"callous self-interest and a desire for retribution played a role in the fate\" of German prisoners, and he exemplifies by pointing out that sick or otherwise unfit prisoners were forcibly used for labour, and in France and the Low Countries this also included work such as highly dangerous mine-clearing; \"by September 1945 it was estimated by the French authorities that two thousand prisoners were being maimed and killed each month in accidents\"\n\nSome of the 740,000 German prisoners transferred in 1945 by the U.S. for forced labour in France came from the Rheinwiesenlager camps, these forced labourers were already very weak, many weighing barely 50 kg (110 lbs).\n\nIn retaliation for acts of resistance French occupation forces expelled more than 25,000 civilians from their homes. Some of these civilians were subsequently forced to clear minefields in Alsace.\n\nIn 1946, the UK had more than 400,000 prisoners, many had been transferred from POW camps in the U.S. and Canada. Many of these were used as forced labour, as a form of \"reparations\".\n\nThe two main reasons for their internment were political re-education (Wilton Park), and for non-officers employment as agricultural and other labour. In 1946 a fifth of all agricultural work in the UK was performed by German prisoners.\nAn emotional and public debate ensued in the UK, where words such as \"slaves\", \"slave labour\" and \"forced labour\" were increasingly used in the media and in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. In 1947 the Ministry of Agriculture argued against rapid repatriation of working German prisoners, since by then they made up 25 percent of the land workforce, and they wanted to use them also in 1948. Faced with political difficulties in using volunteer foreign labour a compromise solution was suggested by the ministry of agriculture, German prisoners were to be allowed to remain in Britain as free men. Following disputes about how many former prisoners of war would be permitted to remain voluntarily in Britain and whether they would first have to return briefly to Germany before being allowed to officially migrate to Britain, by the end of 1947 about 250,000 of the prisoners of war were repatriated, and the last repatriations took place in November 1948. About 24,000 chose to remain voluntarily in Britain.\n\nIn Norway the last available casualty record, from August 29, 1945, shows that by that time a total of 275 German soldiers had been killed while clearing mines, while an additional 392 had been maimed. German protests that forcing POWs to clear mines was against international law, article 32 of the Geneva conventions, were rejected with the assertion that the Germans were not POWs; they were disarmed forces who had surrendered unconditionally (\"avvæpnede styrker som hadde overgitt seg betingelsesløst\"). Mine clearance reports received by the Allied Forces Headquarters state: June 21, 1945; 199 dead and 163 wounded Germans; 3 Norwegians and 4 British wounded. The last registration, from August 29, 1945 lists 392 wounded and 275 dead Germans. Mine clearance was then for unknown reasons halted for close to a year before recommencing under better conditions during June–September 1946. This time many volunteered thanks to good pay, and death rates were much lower, possibly thanks in part to a deal permitting them medical treatment at Norwegian hospitals.\n\nThe United States transferred prisoners for forced labor to both the UK and France (which received 740,000 from the US).\nFor prisoners in the U.S. repatriation was also delayed for harvest reasons.\n\nCivilians aged 14–65 in the U.S. occupation zone of Germany were also registered for compulsory labor, under threat of prison and withdrawal of ration cards.\n\nMost captives of the Americans and the British were released by the end of 1948, and most of those in French captivity were released by the end of 1949.\n\nAccording to the Office of Public Administration (part of Federal Ministry of the Interior), compensation for Germans used as forced labor after the war cannot be claimed in Germany since September 29, 1978, due to the statute of limitations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3717542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3717542", "title": "Francis Irénée du Pont", "text": "Francis Irénée du Pont\n\nFrancis Irénée du Pont (December 3, 1873 – March 16, 1942) was an American chemist, and manager at the E.I. du Pont de Nemours Company. He was the great grandson of its founder, Eleuthère Irénée du Pont.\n\nFrancis I. du Pont was the eldest son of Frances G. du Pont and Elise Wigfall Simons. He was born and grew up at Hagley, near Greenville, Delaware, attended the University of Pennsylvania and graduated from Yale University’s Sheffield Scientific School in 1895. He was placed at his father's Carney's Point, New Jersey facility, where he joined in the research into the development of the new smokeless powder. This product was high sought after as the military was moving towards its use. He was known for his scientific expertise and managerial abilities, became superintendent of Carney's Point, and was the first head of DuPont’s new Experimental Station research facility in 1904.\n\nWhen the company was reorganized following its purchase by the three cousins, Alfred I. du Pont, Pierre S. du Pont, and T. Coleman du Pont in 1903, Francis I. du Pont was named to the Board of Directors and Executive Committee. With T. Coleman du Pont as President the company continued to grow, but within a few years Pierre S. du Pont became the acting president and effective leader of the company. In 1914, with the outbreak of World War I and the declining health of T. Coleman du Pont, Pierre and Coleman sought a way to have the company buy Coleman's share of the company and redistribute it to some of the most highly valued non-family members in the company management. This effort, along with other more personal factors, touched off a full scale break between the cousins. Francis sided with Alfred I. du Pont in the contest, but by 1916 they had lost control and Francis lost his seat on the Board of Directors.\n\nAfter leaving the company, he and his brother, Ernest du Pont, organized the U.S.F. Powder Company, which produced for the U.S. Navy a flashless powder for cannon. In 1922 he became Treasurer for the du Pont Motor Company and, with his son, Edmund du Pont, founded a Wall Street brokerage in 1931.\n\nIn 1913, he published, through Saylor Show Print, Wilmington, DE, \"Taxation: A Treatise written by F. I. DuPont\" developing the ideas of Henry George (1839-1897), the Philadelphia-born author of \"Progress and Poverty,\" which remains the best-selling book ever on political economy. In his treatise, he examines various potential tax bases, and concludes that taxation of privilege, through taxation of land value, is the most desirable alternative. He calls land speculation \"a gross misuse of the power of government\" which ought to be abolished by taxation, in order to create prosperity. He ran unsuccessfully for Mayor of Wilmington on that platform on the Progressive ticket.\n\nFrancis I. du Pont died on March 16, 1942.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45420372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45420372", "title": "Gary John Previts", "text": "Gary John Previts\n\nGary John Previts (born 1942) is an American accountant, Professor of Leadership and Enterprise Development and Professor of Accountancy at the Weatherhead School of Management. He is known for his work on the history of the theory and practice of accountancy.\n\nBorn in Cleveland, Ohio, where his father, a graduate from Teachers College, Columbia University worked as an educator. Previts obtained his BA from John Carroll University, under the guidance of Professor of Accounting Francis J. McGurr, in 1963. In 1964 he obtained his MA in accountancy at the Ohio State University, and in 1972 his PhD at the University of Florida.\n\nPrevits served in the US Army in the Vietnam War, where he was stationed in Thailand from 1965 to 1967. Back in the States he worked at Haskins & Sells, now Deloitte, before continuing his graduate study. After graduation Previts started his academic career at University of Alabama in 1973. During the first year of his academic career, Previts was instrumental in generating interest in and in the formation of the Academy of Accounting Historians, devoted to the study of accounting history. He was the founding editor of the \"Accounting Historians Journal\" in 1974. He is also the editor of \"Research in Accounting Regulation\". In 1979, Previts joined the Weatherhead School of Management at Case Western Reserve University, where he was eventually appointed Professor of Leadership and Enterprise Development and Professor of Accountancy.\n\nPrevits' research interests focus on the \"development of accounting thought and institutions... the corporate origins and ongoing events that have shaped contemporary accounting practices... [and on] the regulation of accounting disclosures.\" Previts was inducted into the Accounting Hall of Fame in 2011.\n\n\nArticles, a selection\n\n"}
{"id": "29566023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29566023", "title": "Gilbert Cooper", "text": "Gilbert Cooper\n\nSir Gilbert Alexander \"Gibby\" Cooper, C.B.E., E.D. (31 July 1903 – 29 May 1989) was a businessman and politician in Bermuda, serving as a member of the House of Assembly and Mayor of Hamilton, Bermuda. After graduating from McGill University with a degree in commerce, he worked for his family's business, A.S. Cooper & Sons Ltd., a department store in Front Street, Bermuda, where he later became chairman of the board of directors.\n\nCooper joined the Bermuda Volunteer Rifle Corps in 1921, becoming an officer in 1928, and served during the Second World War at Prospect Camp on the island. In 1944 he became chairman of the Chamber of Commerce and was appointed to the Trade Development Board. He served as a member of the House of Assembly from 1948 to 1968, and as chairman of its Finance Committee from 1959 to 1968. He was Mayor of Hamilton from 1963 to 1972, when he was awarded a knighthood for public services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1318967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1318967", "title": "Gordon Getty", "text": "Gordon Getty\n\nGordon Peter Getty (born December 20, 1933) is an American businessman, investor, philanthropist and classical music composer, the fourth child of oil tycoon J. Paul Getty. His mother, Ann Rork, was his father's fourth wife. When his father died in 1976, Gordon assumed control of Getty's US$2 billion trust. According to the Forbes 400, as of September 2011 his net worth is $2 billion, making him number 212 on the list of the richest Americans.\n\nGetty was raised in San Francisco, California, attended St. Ignatius College Preparatory, University of San Francisco and earned a B.A. in music from the San Francisco Conservatory of Music. He married Ann Gilbert in Las Vegas, Nevada, on Christmas Day, 1964.\n\nHe joined the oil business to please his father; however, he eventually sold the family's Getty Oil to Texaco in 1986 for US$10 billion. In 1983, \"Forbes\" magazine ranked him the richest person in America with a net worth a little over $2 billion. His current net worth is cited as $2 billion, making him the 212th richest person in the United States.\n\nGetty is one of the nation's leading venture capitalists and philanthropists. In 2002, he donated US$3 million to the Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation, a charitable trust. He is a major fundraiser for local and national Democratic Party candidates, and has contributed to the campaigns of Nancy Pelosi, Willie Brown, Gavin Newsom, and John Kerry.\n\nAmong a number of professions, Getty is a classical music composer whose compositions include the opera \"Plump Jack\", \"Joan and the Bells\", piano pieces and a collection of choral works. His one-act opera \"Usher House\" was performed by the San Francisco Opera in 2015. Aspiring to become an opera singer, Getty studied in the mid-1970s with Louise Caselotti, a mezzo-soprano who had been Maria Callas' voice teacher (1946–47). He and his wife have supported the fine arts, especially underwriting productions of the San Francisco Opera and the Russian National Orchestra.\n\nIn 2002, Getty founded ReFlow, a company which temporarily purchases shares in mutual funds to save funds taxes and commissions.\n\nOn April 1, 2015, it was reported that Getty's son Andrew Rork Getty died at his home in Hollywood Hills of what was initially classified as natural causes, although coroner's officials needed to wait for the results of further examination and toxicology tests before making a final determination. The coroner eventually ruled the death as accidental. \n\nOn May 9, 2015, was the premiere at Leipzig Opera of \"The Canterville Ghost\" opera by Gordon Getty.\n\nGordon Getty's life and work was chronicled in Peter Rosen's documentary \"\" which premiered on February 5, 2016 at Cinema Village in New York City.\n\n\nCantata and opera\n\nChamber works\n\nChoral works\n\nOrchestral works\n\nPiano works\n\nSongs\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47903008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47903008", "title": "Hilton Garden Inn (Cleveland)", "text": "Hilton Garden Inn (Cleveland)\n\nThe Hilton Garden Inn is a 120-foot 11 story high-rise hotel in the downtown Cleveland Gateway District. It is postmodern in style and has a color scheme of light red and beige. The Hilton is very squat in structure and occupies over a city block of space length wise, however, width wise it is very thin. It is connected to the Gateway Conference Center. The hotel features 240 rooms and sits directly across the street from Progressive Field which is the home of the Cleveland Indians. It opened in 2002. It was one of the first major new hotels constructed in the central city area of downtown in the new millennium. It is one of five Hilton hotels in Cleveland, the other four being the Hilton Cleveland Downtown Hotel and the Double Tree Hotel Cleveland, Hampton Inn (Cleveland) and Reserve Square.\n\nThe hotel's location on Carnegie Avenue affords it a view of downtown and surrounding areas. Its location adjacent to offramps to Interstates 71, 77, and 90 makes it the city's only downtown hotel near a major highway. This may change, if the NuCLEus project is completed by 2018.\n"}
{"id": "42721812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42721812", "title": "Hiram Barnes", "text": "Hiram Barnes\n\nHiram Barnes (19 October 1832 – 24 April 1917) was a Queensland businessman, born in Beckley, Sussex, noted for his association with Cobb and Co..\n\nHe came to Australia as a boy with his parents on the \"Duchess of Northumberland\", arriving in Sydney in 1837, attended Staff School, and lived some time in Kissing Point, New South Wales, then in 1847 moved to Victoria. He joined the gold rush, first to Black Hill, then Forest Creek and Friars Creek, the last of which made him a fortune, and he returned to live with his father in St Kilda. He started a business with three horse teams, carrying between St. Kilda, Castlemaine and Bendigo. In 1858 he joined the rush to Rockhampton, Queensland, but was unsuccessful and returned to the carrying business, with Hobby and Hewstead, competitor to Cobb and Co., who shortly took them over. He drove for Cobb and Co., becoming manager of the Forbes to Orange route, at the time bushranger Ben Hall was active in that region. In 1865 he moved to Queensland, where with partners James Rutherford and John Robertson, he took over the business of John Nolan, who had the mail contract between Brisbane and Ipswich. As an independent branch of Cobb and Co., they took over the businesses of Cook and Fraser, then Mrs. Hartley of Jondaryan, so expanding his business out of Toowoomba. Roma and Gympie followed,\n\nLater he was employed by his sons' firm of Barnes and Co., Brisbane, and lived at Kelvin Grove.\n\nHe was a teetotal member of the Methodist Church, and worshipped at the Albert Street Church, and later at the Kelvin Grove Church, where he held responsible official positions. He died at the home of his son-in-law, Rev. Robert Kerr, of Toowong.\n\nHis wife predeceased him by a few months. Their children included politicians G. P. Barnes, M.L.A. and W. H. Barnes (formerly State Treasurer), Fred Barnes, Mrs. John Reid, Mrs. Samuel Knowles, Mrs. B. A. Taudevin (of Melbourne), Mrs. Wagner, Mrs. Robert Kerr, Mrs. T. U. Symonds and Mrs. Henry Roberts.\n"}
{"id": "2767123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2767123", "title": "IMUnited", "text": "IMUnited\n\nIMUnited was a coalition of instant messaging service providers, including Yahoo! and Microsoft, that wanted AOL to open its proprietary AIM network to them. It appears to have disappeared, possibly because both Yahoo!'s and Microsoft's instant messaging services started to gain popularity.\n\n"}
{"id": "16351429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16351429", "title": "Jan Huyghebaert", "text": "Jan Huyghebaert\n\nJan Huyghebaert (born 1945) is a Belgian businessman. He was a member of the Coudenberg group, a Belgian federalist think tank.\n\nHe obtained a degree in Philosophy, Language and Literature from the University of Antwerp (Antwerp, Belgium) and a doctorate in Law from the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (Leuven, Belgium).\n\nDuring his career, he held various government functions, including as adviser to the Belgian Prime Minister, Leo Tindemans, and as Alderman of the Port of Antwerp. He was President of the Executive Committee of the Kredietbank (forerunner of KBC) from 1985 to 1991 and was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors of Almanij in 1991. He is Chairman of the Board of Directors (term expires in 2008) of the KBC Group and in addition, he is Chairman of the Board of Directors of KB Luxembourg. Mr Huyghebaert served as a Director of NV Bekaert SA until May 14, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2375461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2375461", "title": "John D. Chandris", "text": "John D. Chandris\n\nJohn D. Chandris (1890 – 1942) was a Greek shipowner.\n\nChandris was born in Chios, then part of the Ottoman Empire. In 1915, after years of experience in the shipping industry, he bought his first ship, the S/S \"Dimitrios\". By World War I, Chandris' fleet was made up of four ships, including steamships. In 1922, he expanded into the passenger shipping market.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of World War II, Chandris followed the exodus of shipowners from Greece. He moved to England. Chandris ran the cruise lines until he retired in 1939. He died in 1942 at the age 52 from natural causes.\n\nHis two sons, Anthony and Dimitri, later rebuilt the company, named Chandris Line. A partnership called Chandris-Fantasy Cruises started in the early 1980s and later was divided into two separate arms, Fantasy-Cruises and Celebrity cruises.\n"}
{"id": "6582250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6582250", "title": "John York", "text": "John York\n\nJohn C. York (born April 18, 1949) is a retired American cancer research pathologist, married to Marie Denise DeBartolo York, and former co-owner and current co-chairman of the San Francisco 49ers. The Yorks have four children: sons Jed and Tony, and daughters Jenna and Mara.\n\nYork was born in Muskogee, Oklahoma. The son of John Clement York, a dentist who died when York was 15, York grew up in Little Rock and attended local schools until college. He graduated from the University of Notre Dame in South Bend in 1971. He received a doctorate in blood pathology from Stritch School of Medicine at Loyola University Chicago in 1975, and engaged in seven years of post-doctoral study, specializing in the laboratory diagnosis of lymphoma and leukemia.\nYork left academia to establish DeYor Laboratories in Boardman, Ohio. In 1993, he sold DeYor Laboratories to Corning Inc. York has made a number of contributions in the medical field, having given a $1.5 million contribution to establish an Endowed Chair in Pathology and an Endowed Chief Residency in Pathology at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences. In 1999, he donated a science and math building to Catholic High School for Boys, his alma mater. He also joined Jerry Jones and an anonymous donor in donating $10 million to the school.\n\nOn December 28, 2008 John and Denise York announced that their son, Jed York, would become team president and operating head of the franchise, while they would become co-chairmen responsible for providing resources and maintaining their role of interacting with other owners and NFL executives. John continues to serve as chairman of the NFL's International Committee and also sits on the league's Audit and Business Ventures Committees.\n\nOn 24 May 2018, the York family via 49ers Enterprises bought shares in English soccer club Leeds United to become a minority investor, the 49's Enterprises is the business arm of the NFL side San Francisco 49ers.\n\n"}
{"id": "4615063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4615063", "title": "Karin Forseke", "text": "Karin Forseke\n\nKarin Forseke, CBE (born 1955 in Sweden) is a Swedish businesswoman and was CEO of the Swedish investment bank D. Carnegie & Co between 2003 and 2006. She became CEO in March 2003, when Lars Bertmar resigned his position as CEO to become Chairman of the company. She resigned in March 2006, being replaced by Stig Vilhelmson. Karin Forseke was one of very few female CEOs in companies listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange.\n\nCarnegie was at that time a Nordic investment bank with offices in 8 countries listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. Prior to being appointed Chief Executive she was the Head of International Sales and Sales Trading at Carnegie from 1998.\n\nPrior to joining Carnegie, in 1996–1998, Forseke was Chief Operating Officer of the London International Financial Futures Exchange, LIFFE. Other prior positions also include Private Advisor to the Minister of Financial Market and Local Government, Sweden, Westpac Banking Corporation's Financial Markets Group, London and Director of Business Development, The OMLX exchange, London.\n\nShe currently holds a number of private and public directorships. Public directorships include non-executive director of the Financial Services Authority (FSA) Board, Eniro AB and the Royal Swedish Opera. In January 2012 she was appointed Non Executive Chairman of Alliance Trust.\n\nForseke declined to answer questions regarding her academic credentials when confronted by questions from Dagens Nyheter.\n\nIn 2005, Forseke was ranked among the 100 most influential people in European capital markets according to Financial News.\n\nForseke was awarded the Félix Neubergh Lecture 2007, Gothenburg University; \"Leadership; challenges and opportunities in the business of privatization\".\n"}
{"id": "3738604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3738604", "title": "Kenichi Ohmae", "text": "Kenichi Ohmae\n\nBorn in 1943 in Kitakyūshū, Ohmae earned a BS in chemistry in 1966 from Waseda University, an MS in nuclear physics in 1968 from the Tokyo Institute of Technology, and a doctorate in nuclear engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1970.\n\nAfter graduation, Ohmae subsequently worked as a senior design engineer for Hitachi from 1970 to 1972. From 1972 to 1995 he worked for McKinsey & Company. As a senior partner he ran the company's Japan operations for a number of years. He co-founded its strategic management practice, and served companies in a wide spectrum of industries, including industrial and consumer electronics, finance, telecommunications, food and chemicals. In 1995 he ran for Governor of Tokyo, but lost to Yukio Aoshima.\n\nIn 1997 he went to the United States, where he was appointed Dean and Professor of UCLA Luskin School of Public Affairs. In 1997 to 1998, he became a Guest professor of Stanford Graduate School of Business, MBA Program.\n\nIn 2011, he became a Project director for Team \"H2O\", and coordinated in preparing the report \"What should we learn from the severe accident at the Fukushima Dai-ichi Nuclear Power Plant?\" and submitted it to Goshi Hosono, the Minister of Environment & Minister for the Restoration of Nuclear Accident. In 2012, he became a member of The \"Nuclear Reform Monitoring Committee\" of Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO).\n\nOhmae introduced the Japanese management methods to a broad Western audience, a specifically the Toyota practice of just-in-time production. He also outlined the differences between Japanese and Western companies, in particular:\n\nThrough his numerous publications, he coined many terms that are still in use today. In the 1980s, he predicted and described globalization as prominent phenomenon in the world economy.\n\nOhmae has written a number of books, including \n\n"}
{"id": "21454296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21454296", "title": "L. Frank &amp; Son Building", "text": "L. Frank &amp; Son Building\n\nL. Frank & Son Building is a historic retail building located at Baltimore, Maryland, United States. It is a four-story brick commercial building with a cast-iron façade, built about 1875. It was constructed for Samuel Stein & Bros., and occupied by a dealer in iron ranges and furnaces, and later a series of shoe and clothing manufacturers.\n\nL. Frank & Son Building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1994. \nThe building at 409 West Baltimore Street, next door, was listed at the same time.\n\n"}
{"id": "43645094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43645094", "title": "Marie-Jeanne Meyer", "text": "Marie-Jeanne Meyer\n\nMarie-Jeanne Meyer (born 1942) is a French billionaire and member of the Louis Dreyfus family.\n\nBorn Marie-Jeanne Louis-Dreyfus, she was one of three children born to Jean and Jeanne Madeline (née Depierre) Louis-Dreyfus. Her brother is Robert Louis-Dreyfus and her sister is Monique Roosmale Nepveu. Her father was Jewish and her mother Roman Catholic. She is the great granddaughter of Léopold Louis-Dreyfus, founder of the Louis-Dreyfus Group, which had begun buying and selling wheat in the Alsace region a century earlier, and rapidly diversified into shipping, oil and other commodities. Her grandfather was Louis Louis-Dreyfus who served in the French Parliament during the French Third Republic. After the death of her brother Robert, his widow and second wife Margarita Louis-Dreyfus (b: Rita Bogdanova), inherited 60% of the Louis Dreyfus Group (later increased to 65% in 2012). As of 2013, Marie-Jeanne owned 12.5% of the Louis Dreyfus Group making her a billionaire. In 2009, she founded the venture capital company Florac SAS.\n\nShe is married to Philippe Meyer. They have three children.\n\nActress Julia Louis-Dreyfus is her cousin.\n"}
{"id": "34597153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34597153", "title": "Mary Jane Innes", "text": "Mary Jane Innes\n\nMary Jane Innes (née Lewis, 18 April 1852 – 14 November 1941) was a Welsh-born New Zealand brewery manager.\n\nMary Jane Lewis was born on a farm in Llanvaches, Monmouthshire, Wales on 18 April 1852. Her parents were Thomas Lewis and Hannah Morgan Lewis. She immigrated to New Zealand with her older brother and sister in 1870, after their parents died.\n\nMary Jane Innes owned and operated Te Awamutu Brewery from 1877 (with her husband), and Waikato Breweries from 1889. In widowhood she launched the successful C. L. Innes and Company, in partnership with her eldest son Charles Lewis Innes. She turned the company over to two of her sons in 1912. The Innes brewing and bottling businesses not only produced alcoholic beverages, but \"aerated waters,\" thus making a start to the soft-drink industry in New Zealand. Her grandson Harold Hirst Innes was senior director of Innes Industries in 1961, when they merged with another company to create Oasis Group.\n\nMary Jane Lewis married Scotsman Charles Innes in Auckland in 1874. They had ten children together. She was widowed in 1899. Mary Jane Innes died in Auckland in 1941, age 89. Her remains were buried in Hamilton East Cemetery.\n\nIn 2013, she was inducted into the New Zealand Business Hall of Fame, 72 years after her death.\n\nObjects and papers belonging to Innes and her family are part of the collection in the Waikato Museum. Mary Jane's grandson Colin V. Innes co-wrote a book about the family's early history in brewing, \"A Crown for the Lady: The Unravelling of a Pioneer Story\" (Tauranga: Moana Press, 1989).\n"}
{"id": "1101552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1101552", "title": "Media strategy", "text": "Media strategy\n\nMedia strategy, as used in the advertising or content delivery (online broadcasting) industries, is concerned with how messages will be delivered to consumers or niche markets. It involves: identifying the characteristics of the target audience or market, who should receive messages and defining the characteristics of the media that will be used for the delivery of the messages, with the intent being to influence the behaviour of the target audience or market pertinent to the initial brief. Examples of such strategies today have revolved around an Integrated Marketing Communications approach whereby multiple channels of media are used i.e. advertising, public relations, events, direct response media, etc.\n\nThis concept has been used among proponents of entertainment-education programming where pro-social messages are embedded into dramatic episodic programs to change the audiences attitudes and behaviors in such areas as family planning, literacy, nutrition, smoking, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "6880917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6880917", "title": "Michael Cherney", "text": "Michael Cherney\n\nMichael Cherney (, , also Mikhail Chernoy, Mikhail Chorny or Mikhail Chernoi; born 16 January 1952) is a Uzbekistan-born Israeli entrepreneur and industrialist. He is known for his significant role in the 1990s Aluminium in Russia, and his business ventures in Israel. He is also the founder of the Michael Cherney Foundation and a sponsor of The Intelligence Summit.\n\nCherney grew up in Tashkent, Uzbek SSR, in a family whose father was a book-keeper and an engineer, the eldest of three sons. At the age of fourteen, Cherney started working, as he joined his father on moonlighting jobs. After high school, he was drafted into the Soviet Army and attended a technical college. Later, his athletic pursuits – boxing and football – led to employment in sports administration.\n\nIn the early 1990s Cherney immigrated to Israel but kept close ties to Bulgaria, where he had bought a leading newspaper, a top football team and Bulgaria's only mobile phone company, Mobiltel. In August 2000 Bulgarian authorities denounced what they said were his ties to foreign criminal rackets and expelled him, saying he could not return to Bulgaria for 10 years.\n\nFurthermore, the United States has \"denied Cherney a visa since 1999 because of alleged ties to the Russian mafia, according to \"The St. Petersburg Times\"\".\n\nCherney is wanted on an Interpol international arrest warrant on allegations of money laundering and organised crime, but in June 2010 \"The Jerusalem Post\" reported that Cherney is preparing an application to contest it before the European Union Court of Human Rights.\n\nIn August 2010 the Israeli TV Channel Two aired a short program about the most expensive and lavish wedding ceremony in Israel until that time, costing 20 million ILS (about 5 million US dollars). The program revealed that the bride was Cherny's daughter, that the wedding was paid by him and that Israeli ministers and members of parliament (Knesset) of Russian origin attended.\n\nCherney, together with his brother Lev Cherney and UK metals traders David and Simon Reuben, founded Trans-World Group (TWG) – the first and largest private company in Russia, which produced aluminium and sold it on Western markets. \"BusinessWeek\" reports that the brothers \"were known for their rough style of doing business\".\n\nIn 1994, TWG was drawn into a government inquiry into the theft of more than $US100 million from Russia's central bank by a number of separate criminal groups during the early 1990s. In an article on TWG, \"Fortune\" magazine reported: \"That a theft occurred is not in dispute, nor is the fact that the Cherneys ended up with a piece of the stolen money and used it to partially fund Trans World's startup phase in 1992... The inquiry's objective was to determine whether the Cherneys knew the funds were indeed stolen.\"\n\nIn an attempt to clean up its reputation and refute allegations of questionable business practices, the Reuben brothers hired Mayer Brown & Platt, a US-based law firm. Terrence Burke, an investigator employed by the law firm and former acting head of the DEA, recommended that the Reubens sever their ties with Cherney after the FBI told him that \"it believed Michael himself was an organised crime figure.\" As a result, Michael was paid $US400 million \"just to go away\" while his brother Lev remained with the company.\n\nIn August 2001 a \"Fortune\" article notes, \"the prosecutor's office in Düsseldorf notified the Reuben brothers that it had terminated its probe into alleged money laundering, saying 'I hereby confirm expressly that there is no remaining suspicion of money laundering or any other criminal actions.'\" However, the same article states that the Kroll report \"doesn't discuss an essential part of the story\", nor does it \"explore the complex business and financial relationships in Russia between the Reubens and Lev and Michael Chernoy.\"\n\nAccording to the Financial Times, in 1994, Oleg Deripaska, then an independent metals trader, won the backing of Cherney and TWG to become general manager of Sayansk aluminium plant in Siberia, which lead to formation of SibAl and a partnership between Cherney and Oleg Deripaska in this company.\n\nIn 2002, 80% of the capital in the Bulgarian State-owned tobacco company, Bulgartabac, was placed on the market. In April 2002 Cherney put together a three-partner consortium called \"Metatabac\" to bid for Bulgartabac. Ownership was structured between three groups: the Russian firm Soyuzcontracttabac, which owned 35%, MCG Holdings, a firm owned by Cherney, which owned 35%, and another 30% held by a Cypriot company named Metacontact Ltd.\n\nIn 2002 Cherney was involved in the selling-on of the Bulgarian mobile provider Mobiltel. Cherney bought the company together with Austrian business men Martin Schlaff, former minister of the Austrian People's Party Josef Taus, and financial expert Herbert Cordt. The 768 million Euro deal was financed by BAWAG P.S.K.. In 2005 Mobiltel was sold for 1.6 billion euros to Mobilkom Austria Group with a huge profit of 830 million Euros. Critics found it hard to understand \"why the state bought an asset for such a high price from someone who was effectively a go-between who stood to pocket a fat profit, rather than directly from the original owner of the company\".\n\nCherney is the founder and primary sponsor of the Intelligence Summit. In February 2006, \"The New York Sun\" reported that John Deutch and James Woolsey had resigned from the Intelligence Summit's board of advisers after receiving information that the conference's primary sponsor, Cherney, had \"alleged ties to the Russian mafia\".\n\nOn 21 May 1994, Cherney and his future wife were detained by immigration officers on arrival in Heathrow from Geneva. It was discovered that they had attempted to enter the UK on false Polish passports and they were deported back to Switzerland.\n\nThe following day they were arrested by the Swiss police on the grounds that they had made use of false identities. Both were searched and found to be in possession of two allegedly invalid Polish driving licences. Cherney gave a statement to the police in which he admitted using a Polish passport in an attempt to enter the UK, which had been successful previously. On 25 October 1994 the Swiss authorities confirmed that they would not be pressing any charges against Cherney. On 20 November 1996 the Swiss Federal Aliens Office confirmed that he was no longer subject to a prohibition order and that there was nothing to prevent his coming into Switzerland.\n\nCherney is a close friend of Avigdor Lieberman who allegedly received millions of shekels from various entrepreneurs, including Cherney, while serving as member of Knesset; under Israeli law, MKs are not allowed to receive any payment beyond their salary. One claim is that Cherney paid a company called \"Path to the East\" large amounts of money between the years 1999 and 2006, and that these sums were then allegedly passed on to Lieberman as a bribe. Other allegations concern a company called \"M.L.1\", founded by Lieberman's daughter Michal when she was 21. These allegations concern money transferred to M.L.1 from unknown sources outside Israel; the money was later allegedly used for paying salaries to Avigdor and Michal Lieberman.\n\nIn April 2007, Israeli police questioned Avigdor Lieberman, Israel's Deputy Prime Minister, on suspicions of illegally financing his 2001 electoral campaign. According to the police, in May 2001, three months after Lieberman was appointed Minister of Infrastructure in Ariel Sharon's Cabinet, approximately $US500,000 was transferred to the bank accounts of Lieberman associates through Cyprus. This money could be traced back to Cherney. Cherney's attorney, Yaakov Weinroth, said the money was transferred by his client \"for a totally transparent, legal wine deal\".\n\nIn May 2011, Haaretz reported that the Israeli Attorney General had issued a draft indictment against Avigdor Lieberman for fraud and money laundering, including allegations against Cherny. A second \"Haaretz\" article detailing the draft indictment reported that a company owned by Cherney had paid $US500,000 to a company owned by Avigdor Lieberman in May 2001. It added, \"Prosecutors say Lieberman then used his government posts to try to restore Chernoy's Israeli passport, which he had been stripped of in 1999, and to assist him in other personal matters.\" Cherney was acquitted. Over the years, Cherney's passport was returned by the Israeli authorities.\n\nIn 1999, businessman Gad Zeevi purchased shares in the Israeli telecommunications company Bezeq on behalf of businesses he owned. According to an indictment filed in 2004, Cherney provided the financial guarantee for the purchase—information that Cherney and Zeevi hid from the banks financing the deal, in fear that Cherney's direct involvement would not be approved by the Israeli ministry of communications. In 2015, Cherney, Zeevi and a number of other defendants were cleared of all charges, with the court stating that the information had not in fact been hidden, and the fact that Cherney loaned the necessary funds to Zeevi did not constitute fraud against Bezeq.\n\nAccording to sources cited in the Spanish daily \"El Mundo\", Spanish authorities sought Cherney in connection to \"Operation Avispa\", a 2005 investigation that had resulted in the arrest of several prominent Russian mafia figures. The investigators believe that Cherney managed several Spanish businesses, registered in Alicante and Levante, used by the mafia for money laundering of 4 million euros.\n\nIn May 2009, Spain's Supreme Court issued a detention order against Cherney. Along with his business partners Oleg Deripaska (head of RusAl) and Iskander Makhmudov (head of UGMK), Cherney is suspected of laundering money. The Spanish authorities claim they succeeded in tracing the organization's complicated money laundering track, including Deripaska's, Makhmudov's and Cherney's alleged participation. As a result, Interpol issued an international arrest warrant against Cherney.\n\nOn 24 November 2006, Cherney filed a suit against Oleg Deripaska, a Russian billionaire who owns the huge Russian aluminium company, RusAl, in the Commercial Court of London's High Court. Cherney sought a Court declaration affirming that Deripaska holds 20% of the RusAl shares on behalf of Cherney or damages for breach of Deripaska's agreement to dispose of the shares and to account to Cherney for the proceeds. The claims are based on a written agreement between the two businessmen that was signed in a London hotel room in March 2001. Deripaska denies that Cherney owns shares and said in an affidavit that his relationship with Cherney was one of a businessman being extorted by a crime boss. After the 2001 meeting, Deripaska paid Cherney $US250 million.\n\nAs of December 2006 RusAl was in the final stages of negotiating a takeover of domestic rival SuAl and the aluminium assets of Glencore, a major Swiss commodities trader, which could create a new company valued at up to $US30 billion. According to this estimate, Cherney's 20 percent stake in RusAl could be worth as much as $US3 billion. On 3 July 2008, a British judge ruled that Cherney had the right to sue Deripaska for £2 billion. High Court Justice Christopher Clarke ruled that Cherney might be assassinated or held on trumped-up charges if he tried to bring the case in Russia.\n\nAt a June 2011 case management conference, the judge deferred a decision on whether Cherney would be allowed to give evidence by video link from Israel rather than appear in person as an outstanding Interpol arrest warrant means he would be detained if he visited the UK. In late July 2011, the High Court ruled that Cherney may give evidence at the trial by video link from Israel and set trial for April 2012. The case was settled out of court between Cherney and Deripaska in September 2012.\n\nOn 13 January 2010, a Tel Aviv Court handed down its first verdict in the case of illegal eavesdropping on Cherney. Aviv Mor, a private investigator was found guilty of illegally gathering information of personal nature - in particular, tapping the phones of Cherney and sentenced to a plea bargained result which handed down a 14-month sentence to Mor. Part of the sentence will be in the form of community service and the rest will be a suspended sentence. The District attorney's office stated in court that the cases of other suspects in the illegal data collection case \"are at an advanced stage and close to indictment .\" In February 2008 Cheney filed a suit in a Tel Aviv court that alleged the illegal spying was commissioned by a Russian citizen, Alexei Drobashenko who at the time was the head of the External Relations department at Basic Element, a financial and industrial group that belongs to Oleg Deripaska. Cherney claimed that it was this Russian oligarch, acting through Drobashenko, who had hired Eskin, Pridan and Mor. In his claim, Cherney accused a group of 10 plotters, including Oleg Deripaska, Alexei Drobashenko and the already sentenced Aviv Mor, of illegal wiretapping, hacking the computers of his charity fund, publishing slanderous articles, and harassing him with insulting graffities and leaflets.\n\nSpouse of Michael Cherney is a businesswoman Nicole Raidman. In 2010 their first daughter was born Michelle Raidman. and in 2014 their son Richie. Cherney and Raidman live in Herzliya Israel.\n\n"}
{"id": "33757288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33757288", "title": "Mirza Asadullayev", "text": "Mirza Asadullayev\n\nMirza Asadullayev Shamsi oglu (; 1875–1936) was an Azerbaijani industrial magnate, philanthropist and statesman who served as Minister of Industry and Trade in the third cabinet of Azerbaijan Democratic Republic, and was member of Parliament of Azerbaijan.\n\nAsadullayev was born in 1875 in Baku, Azerbaijan to the family of famous oil magnate Shamsi Asadullayev. After graduating from a Baku gymnasium, he worked for his father's oil company. In early 1900s, he married the daughter of another oil magnate Musa Nagiyev, Umm-El-Banine Assadoulaeff, known as by her pan name Banine. Due to his father's oil business, Asadullayev has spent considerable time living in Moscow and St. Petersburg. He also chaired the Muslim Charity Society organization. After the February revolution in Russia, Asadullayev was elected a member to the Executive Committee of the Interim Muslim National Council. In 1918, he was elected chairman of Baku Oil Industry Council.\n\nAfter establishment of Azerbaijan Democratic Republic, he played an important role in the economy of the country. On December 26, when the third cabinet led by Fatali Khan Khoyski was formed, Asadullayev was appointed the Minister of Industry and Trade of ADR. He's recognized as an important contributor in development of industry sector of Azerbaijan. \nAfter Bolshevik occupation of Azerbaijan in 1920, Asadullayev was arrested and imprisoned. He was released the same year and with permission from the authorities, was allowed to leave the country.\n\nAsadullayev settled in Paris where he lived until his death in 1936.\n\n"}
{"id": "20505381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20505381", "title": "Nicole Wong", "text": "Nicole Wong\n\nNicole A. Wong is an American attorney, specializing in Internet, media and intellectual property law. In May 2013, she was selected by the Barack Obama administration to be the White House deputy chief technology officer (CTO) of the United States. She earned the nickname \"the Decider\" while she was vice president and deputy general counsel at Google, where she was responsible for arbitrating issues of censorship for Google. Wong stepped down as Deputy US CTO on August 16, 2014 to return with her family to California. She currently serves as a Senior Advisor to Albright Stonebridge Group, a global business strategy firm.\n\nNicole Wong, a fourth-generation Chinese American, was born in the United States. Her great-grandfather was a Chinese immigrant who entered the United States through Canada and harvested potatoes in Idaho, worked at a laundry in Michigan and became a cook in Livermore, California. Her maternal grandmother was from Southern China. Until the 1950s, her grandparents were unable to own property in California. They helped found one of the first Chinese community banks in the country, and her grandfather became its vice president. \n\nWong grew up in Del Mar, California and initially wanted to be a journalist because her aunt was a reporter at the \"Los Angeles Times\". She attended Georgetown University where she worked as a news editor at the campus paper and radio station. She graduated \"magna cum laude\" with a B.A. degree in American Studies and a minor in English in 1990. She has a fellowship in poetry and later received her law degree from the University of California, Berkeley School of Law, and a master's degree in journalism from the University of California, Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism in 1995. At Berkeley, she co-founded the Asian Law Journal and became its first editor-in-chief.\n\nAfter graduation, Wong worked as an associate and practiced First Amendment law at Steinhart & Falconer LLP in San Francisco; her clients included Bay Area newspapers and radio stations. When the Internet boom hit, she began advising Yahoo!, Evite, and PayPal. She was an associate at Perkins Coie LLP in 1997 and was named a partner in 2000. Wong represented media clients including the \"Los Angeles Times\", The Walt Disney Company, Microsoft, and Amazon.com before joining Google as senior compliance counsel. She eventually got promoted to Vice President and Deputy General Counsel in 2004. Wong was responsible for Google’s product and regulatory matters.\n\nIn November 2012, Wong left Google and became the legal director of products at Twitter. In June 2013, she joined the Obama administration as deputy U.S. chief technology officer, working with U.S. Chief Technology Officer Todd Park. She is currently a Senior Advisor at Albright Stonebridge Group.\n\nWong has served on the governing committee of the ABA Communications Law Forum since 2001, and on the board of directors of the First Amendment Coalition since 2007. She is on the advisory board at University of California, Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism. She previously served on the Board of Governors of the National Asian Pacific American Bar Association from 1996 to 1998, and as a co-chair of the Practising Law Institute’s Internet Law Institute from 2001 to 2004. From 1997 to 1998, she was a member of the San Francisco Sunshine Task Force.\n\nWong had testified four times before the U.S. Congress regarding Internet policy. At one hearing she stated, \"First and foremost, the U.S. Government should promote Internet openness as a major plank for our foreign policy.\" She is a co-editor of \"Electronic Media and Privacy Law Handbook\" (2003). She also has taught media and Internet law courses as an adjunct professor at the University of California at Berkeley, Stanford University, and University of San Francisco School of Law in 1997 and 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "590689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=590689", "title": "Overseas Shipholding Group", "text": "Overseas Shipholding Group\n\nOverseas Shipholding Group, Inc. (OSG - Overseas Shipping Group) () is the operator of a fleet of twenty-four oil tankers. It is based in Tampa, Florida, United States, and was founded in 1948.\n\nIn 1969, under the leadership of Raphael Recanati, OSG began acquiring tanker ships to transport oil from Alaska to the lower 48 US states.\n\nIn the 1990s, OSG began to acquire luxury cruise liners. In 1995, the cruise ships resulted in losses of over $12 million to OSG. As a result of the losses, Michael Recanati, the son of Raphael Recanati, was reported to have been forced to leave OSG.\n\nOSG has offices in Tampa, Florida and Newark, Delaware with nearly 900 sea and shore-based employees.\n\nThe company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2012 after the SEC accused CEO Morten Arntzen and CFO Miles Itkin of falsifying financial statements. In 2017, the company paid a $75,000 fine to the SEC to settle the securities fraud allegations. Former CFO Miles Itkin also paid a separate $75,000 fine. The executives were sued by OSG and agreed to pay a $16.25 million settlement in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "11327743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11327743", "title": "Pearl Academy", "text": "Pearl Academy\n\nPearl Academy (formerly Pearl Academy of Fashion) is an institute offering undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma pathways in design, fashion, media and business.\n\nStarting with a campus in Okhla in South Delhi, the academy later moved to a larger campus in Naraina, in the West of the city.\n\nExpansion saw new campuses being added in Jaipur (2005) and Mumbai (2014). The Jaipur centre moved to a new custom design-and-build campus in 2008, after which a new campus in Noida opened in 2012.\n\nIn 2011 Pearl entered into a long term partnership with Laureate International Universities, and it is now part of the LIU global network which includes more than 80 institutions around the world.\n\nIn 2012 the institute's name was changed to Pearl Academy, in recognition of the growing number of courses in design and business.\n\nThe academy now has over 4,500 students and more than 340 academic staff. A large number of guest faculty are also actively involved in teaching and serving on juries for assessment of projects.\n\n the institution has four centres in India: Delhi NCR West, the academy's oldest campus, located at Naraina; Delhi NCR East which is located in Noida sector 59;Pearl Academy Jaipur, located at Kukas; and the newest campus in Mumbai located in Andheri.\n\nThe Jaipur campus was designed by architects Morphogenesis and completed in 2008. The design uses traditional cooling methods found in the desert environment of Rajasthan, such as a step-well in the centre and the use of Jali-inspired structures. It won the award for 'Best Learning Building' at the World Architecture Festival awards held in Barcelona, Spain in 2009. The Jaipur campus of Pearl Academy recently hosted the Jaipur Design Carnival. Jaipur Design Carnival was conceived as a designers’ festival to celebrate the power of design. Many creative practitioners from diverse fields design participated in the event. There were panel discussions, fashion show, live music, workshops and display of arte facts. The event was organized by the faculty and students of Pearl Academy Jaipur and the workshops were conducted by students of Pearl Jaipur.\n\nThe latest campus (Mumbai) was officially launched on 16 April 2014 by Sussanne Khan, Interior Designer and founder of design studio 'The Charcoal Project', who announced her support for students of the academy by way of Scholarships.\n\nThe Academy has the following Schools: School of Fashion, Styling & Textiles, School of Design, School of Media & Journalism, and School of Creative Business.\n\nApart from the flagship program in Fashion Design, notable courses include Interior Product Design and Luxury Brand Management, both among the first in India for these subjects. Below are the pathways Pearl Academy offers:\nFor the academic year 2017–18, Pearl introduced scholarships for new entrants. The aim was to further encourage and reward the meritorious students.\n\nPearl Academy is a member of the Laureate Education, Inc.\n\nAt Pearl, many international students enroll for a semester / one full year – level study or opt for customized programs of 6 – 8 weeks duration to understand the Indian manufacturing, retail, craft & heritage, garment industry, traditional fabrics, accessories, embroideries, graphic design, jewellery design, fashion merchandising & apparel production etc.\n\nPost Graduate Diploma and PG Professional Diploma courses are validated by Domus Academy, Milan (Italy). Domus Academy was founded in Milan in 1982 as the first postgraduate design school in Italy, and as an open project focusing on the Italian Design and Fashion experience. \n\nThe existing collaborations include that with Fashion Design Council of India (FDCI), Institute of Indian Interior Designers (IIID), Retailers Association of India (RAI), Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) and is affiliated to AMHSSC (Apparel, Made-ups, Home Furnishing Sector Skill Council)\n\nPearl Utsav is a fest organized annually by students to serve as a platform for demonstrating talent in music, drama, dance and other performing arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "166138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166138", "title": "Power of attorney", "text": "Power of attorney\n\nA power of attorney (POA) or letter of attorney is a written authorization to represent or act on another's behalf in private affairs, business, or some other legal matter. The person authorizing the other to act is the \"principal\", \"grantor\", or \"donor\" (of the power). The one authorized to act is the \"agent\" or, in some common law jurisdictions, the attorney-in-fact.\n\nFormerly, the term \"power\" referred to an instrument signed under seal while a \"letter\" was an instrument under hand, meaning that it was simply signed by the parties, but today a power of attorney need not be signed under seal. Some jurisdictions require that powers of attorney be notarized or witnessed, but others will enforce a power of attorney as long as it is signed by the grantor.\n\nThe term \"attorney-in-fact\" is used in many jurisdictions instead of the term \"agent\". That term should be distinguished from the term \"attorney-at-law\". In the United States, an attorney-at-law is a solicitor who is also licensed to be an advocate in a particular jurisdiction. An attorney-in-fact may be a layperson and is authorized to act pursuant to the powers granted by a power of attorney, but may not engage in acts that would constitute the unauthorized practice of law.\n\nIn the context of the unincorporated reciprocal inter-insurance exchange (URIE) the attorney-in-fact is a stakeholder/trustee who takes custody of the subscriber funds placed on deposit with him, and then uses those funds to pay insurance claims. When all the claims are paid, the attorney-in-fact then returns the leftover funds to the subscribers.\n\nThe Uniform Power of Attorney Act employs the term \"agent\". As an agent, an attorney-in-fact is a fiduciary for the principal, so the law requires an attorney-in-fact to be completely honest with and loyal to the principal in their dealings with each other.\n\nCare must be taken when selecting an attorney-in-fact, as some attorneys-in-fact have used their authority to steal the assets of vulnerable individuals such as the elderly (see elder abuse).\n\nThe person who creates a power of attorney, known as the grantor, can only do so when he/she has the requisite mental capacity. Suppose the grantor loses capacity to grant permission after the power of attorney has been created (for example, from Alzheimer's disease or a head injury in a car crash); then the power will probably no longer be effective. In some powers of attorney the grantor states that he/she wishes the document to remain in effect even after he/she becomes incapacitated. This type of power is commonly referred to as a durable power of attorney. If someone is already incapacitated, it is not possible for that person to execute a valid power. If a person does not have the capacity to execute a power of attorney (and does not already have a durable power in place), often the only way for another party to act on their behalf is to have a court impose a conservatorship or a guardianship.\n\nDepending on the jurisdiction, a power of attorney may be oral and, whether witnessed, will hold up in court, the same as if it were in writing. For some purposes, the law requires a power of attorney to be in writing. Many institutions, such as hospitals, banks and, in the United States, the Internal Revenue Service, require a power of attorney to be in writing before they will honor it, and they will usually keep a duplicate original or a copy for their records. Nursing homes often follow the same practice.\n\nThe equal dignity rule is a principle of law that requires an authorization for someone performing certain acts for another person to have been appointed with the same formality as required for the act the representative is going to perform. This means, for example, that if a principal authorizes someone to sell the principal's house or other real property, and the law requires a contract for the sale of real property to be in writing (which is required under the Statute of Frauds in most U.S. jurisdictions), then the authorization for the other person to sign the sales contract and deed must be in writing too. Likewise, in common-law jurisdictions other than the U.S., a power of an attorney to execute a deed (i.e. instrument under seal or executed in presence of two witnesses) must be itself executed as a deed.\n\nIn order for a power of attorney to become a legally enforceable document, at a minimum it must be signed and dated by the principal. Some jurisdictions also require that a power of attorney be witnessed, notarized, or both. Even when not required, having the document reviewed and signed (and often stamped) by a notary public may increase the likelihood of withstanding a legal challenge.\n\nIf the attorney-in-fact is being paid to act on behalf of the principal, a contract for payment may be separate from the document granting power of attorney. If that separate contract is in writing, as a separate document it may be kept private between the principal and agent even when the power of attorney is presented to others for the purposes of carrying out the agent's duties.\n\nA power of attorney may be: \"special\" (also called \"limited\"), \"general\", or \"temporary\". A special power of attorney is one that is limited to a specified act or type of act. A general power of attorney is one that allows the agent to make all personal and business decisions A temporary power of attorney is one with a limited time frame. If ever required, a durable power of attorney can be revoked or changed as long as the principal is still mentally competent to act.\n\nUnder the common law, a power of attorney becomes ineffective if its grantor dies or becomes \"incapacitated,\" meaning unable to grant such a power, because of physical injury or mental illness, for example, unless the grantor (or principal) specifies that the power of attorney will continue to be effective even if the grantor becomes incapacitated. This type of power of attorney is called \"power of attorney with durable provisions\" in the United States or \"enduring power of attorney\" elsewhere. In effect, under a durable power of attorney (DPA), the authority of the attorney-in-fact to act and/or make decisions on behalf of the grantor continues until the grantor's death.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, a durable power of attorney can also be a \"health care power of attorney.\" This particular affidavit gives the attorney-in-fact the authority to make health-care decisions for the grantor, up to and including terminating care and life support. The grantor can typically modify or restrict the powers of the agent to make end-of-life decisions. In many jurisdictions a health care power of attorney is also referred to as a \"health care proxy\" and, as such, the two terms are sometimes used interchangeably.\n\nRelated to the health care power of attorney is a separate document known as an advance health care directive, also called a \"living will\". A living will is a written statement of a person's health care and medical wishes but does not appoint another person to make health care decisions. Depending upon the jurisdiction, a health care power of attorney may or may not appear with an advance health care directive in a single, physical document. For example, the California legislature has adopted a standard power of attorney for health care and advance health care directive form that meets all of that state's legal wording requirements for a power of attorney and advance health care directive in a single document. Compare this to New York State, which enacted a Health Care Proxy law that requires a separate document be prepared appointing one as your health care agent.\n\nIn some U.S. states and other jurisdictions, it is possible to grant a \"springing power of attorney\"; i.e., a power that takes effect only after the incapacity of the grantor or some other definite future act or circumstance. After such incapacitation the power is identical to a durable power, but cannot be invoked before the incapacity. This power may be used to allow a spouse or family member to manage the grantor's affairs in case illness or injury makes the grantor unable to act. If a \"springing\" power is used, the grantor should specify exactly how and when the power \"springs\" into effect. As the result of privacy legislation in the U.S., medical doctors will often not reveal information relating to capacity of the principal unless the power of attorney specifically authorizes them to do so.\n\nDetermining whether the principal is \"disabled\" enough to initiate this type of representation is a formal process. Springing powers of attorney are not automatic, and institutions may refuse to work with the attorney-in-fact. Disputes are then resolved in court.\n\nUnless the power of attorney has been made irrevocable by its own terms or by some legal principle, the grantor may revoke the power of attorney by telling the attorney-in-fact it is revoked. However, if the principal does not inform third parties and it is reasonable for the third parties to rely upon the power of attorney being in force, the principal might still be bound by the acts of the agent, though the agent may also be liable for such unauthorized acts.\n\nStandardized forms are available for various kinds of powers of attorney, and many organizations provide them for their clients, customers, patients, employees, or members. However, the grantor should exercise caution when using a standardized POA form obtained from a source other than a lawyer because there is considerable variation in approved formats among the states. In some states statutory power of attorney forms are available. Examples include the California Statutory Form Power of Attorney, New York Form Power of Attorney and Wisconsin Form Power of Attorney.\n\nAlthough a power of attorney grants the agent powers to perform acts in the absence of the grantor, the POA cannot grant powers to the agent that conflict with rules and regulations governing people and companies that the agent deals with. For example, if a bank has regulations that require the grantor to be physically present in the bank to perform certain actions, the POA cannot grant the agent power to perform those actions in the absence of the grantor.\n\nRobert's Rules of Order notes that proxy voting involves granting a power of attorney. The term \"proxy\" refers to both the power of attorney itself and the person to whom it is granted.\n\nIn financial situations wherein a principal requests a securities broker to perform extensive investment functions on the principal's behalf, independent of the principal's advice, power of attorney must be formally granted to the broker to trade in the principal's account. This rule also applies to principals who instruct their brokers to perform certain specific trades and principals who trust their brokers to perform certain trades in the principal's best interest.\n\nIn Australia, anyone with capacity can grant a power of attorney. This can be done either for a pre-defined period of time, or in perpetuity (\"enduring\"). The power of attorney can be granted to one individual, or to multiple individuals. When granted to multiple individuals, they may be authorised either to act jointly (all together) or to act severally (each can act individually). \n\nIn English and Welsh law, anyone with capacity can grant a power of attorney. These can be general (i.e., to do anything which can legally be done by an attorney), or relate to a specific act (e.g., to sell freehold property). A power of attorney is only valid while the donor has the capacity to ratify the attorney's actions, unless it is made in the form of a lasting power of attorney and registered with the Office of the Public Guardian. This new form of power of attorney was introduced in 2007 under the Mental Capacity Act 2005 and replaced the former enduring power of attorney, although EPAs correctly made before the law changed are still valid. EPAs only need to be registered if the donor has since lost capacity.\n\nThe Office of the Public Guardian provides online process for registering power of attorney.\n\nMany of the provisions in the earlier paragraphs above use terminology different from either common UK usage or terms used in the Mental Capacity Act 2005. Examples are enduring power of attorney, advance directive, and notary public.\n\nIn Irish law there are two forms of power of attorney:\nThe death of the donor ends both.\n\nThe relevant legislation is the Powers of Attorney Act 1996 and the Enduring Powers of Attorney Regulations 1996 (SI No. 196/1996) as amended by SI No. 287/1996. Part 7 of the Assisted Decision-Making (Capacity) Act 2015 provides for new arrangements for those who wish to make an Enduring Power of Attorney and once the 2015 act is commenced, no new powers of attorney will be created under the 1996 act.\n\nA solicitor is not necessary when creating Power of Attorney - it can be created when signed by the donor in the presence of a witness.\n\nCreating an Enduring Power of Attorney requires the following:\n\nThe courts play a general supervisory role in the implementation of the power.\n\nUnder Russian law, specifically art. 185 of the Russian Civil Code, a power of attorney may be executed under hand or in notarial form. The power of attorney to act must be notarially executed. Notarial execution is required for any power of attorney made for concluding a contract subject to special public recordation, namely those dealing with interests in immovable property.\n\nA power of attorney, pursuant to art. 186 of the Russian Civil Code, must also be dated. Any POA without an express date of execution is void.\n\nA power of attorney cannot be irrevocable. The grantor may terminate the POA at any time at his or her sole discretion. Any waiver of this right is void, as provided by the Civil Code.\n\nThe Office of the Public Guardian in Scotland offers the eAttorney Electronic Power of Attorney (EPOAR) system for the submission and payment of powers of attorney registrations.\n\n"}
{"id": "876008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=876008", "title": "Process-based management", "text": "Process-based management\n\nProcess-based management is a management approach that views a business as a collection of processes, managed to achieve a desired result. The processes are managed and improved by organisation in purpose of achieving their vision, mission and core value. A clear correlation between processes and the vision supports the company to plan strategies, build a business structure and use sufficient resources that are required to achieve success in the long run.\n\nFrom a process perspective, an organisation regards its business as a system of vision-achieving vertical processes rather than specific activities and tasks of individual functions. (19:25) The system is not a method or tool for a particular process, but a holistic approach to manage all the processes in one organisation. Therefore, to manage processes effectively, the organisation must have an effective team network and full knowledge of their vision.\n\nThe general management system focuses on specific work-knowledge and direct solutions for cost and budget; on the other hand, process based management applies these financial measurements but in an operational way considering how each performance affects the company as an amalgam of different processes. As a result of recent advances in technology and increased international competition, more companies aim for better methods of grouping and integrating organisational activities.\n\nVision, mission and core value are three crucial factors to manage an organisation from a process perspective. Considering the vision, mission and value as a direction of their business, an organisation can build their corporate strategy and determine the processes they will take into account. As a result, the organisation obtains strengths and competitiveness among other companies.\n\nFirst, the vision is an aspirational purpose what the organisation would like to achieve in the long run. The vision leads the company to challenge various tasks and develop its own business strategy. In other words, the organisation considers vision as a motivation to build a business structure, determine strategic plans and manage human resources. Therefore, the company carries out the ‘vision-achieving operations’ as their primary goals.\n\nMission is a fundamental purpose of a company that remains unchanged over time. The mission provides a guidance for decision making and gives a path to successful results. For instance, mission is different from a vision in that mission is a something to be achieved whereas a vision is something to be aimed for achievement.\n\nCore Values is a principle that helps companies to determine whether the actions and decisions are right or wrong. The value is essential to take decision-making and sustain the company’s long-term success.\n\n\nTo manage its business from a process based perspective, an organisation requires to understand what defines the process and which activities they consist of.\n\nA business consists of different departments in charge of specific jobs or functions. Therefore, the processes support these managerial sectors and transform successful outputs. Then a process team performs a set of sequential tasks to analyse whether the organisation delivers useful outputs to the customers.\n\nBasically, processes are built by information that indicates the current state of company and research data such as customer satisfaction. The information includes customer-based agreement, management documentation, purchasing manuals and flow charts. For instance, the flow chart is a useful information in order to control the flow of processes and list several steps and activities in detail.\n\nAnalysed and clarified processes are allowed to implement on the actual business. Then, an organisation monitors its business and improves the overall stage of process.\n\nTo evaluate the sequence of process, measurement is an essential element that shows results of process performance with numerical and comparative data. In other words, organisations obtain a relevant analysis using the measurements that can be shown as graphical representations such as pie charts, bar charts, cause-and-effect analysis, and gap analysis.\n\nMany organisations highly depend on data and visual analysis processed by information system. For this reason, organisation must obtain accurate analysis based on exact data and must be cautious for mistaken output that impacts whole process of their business.\n\nAs a result, the measurements help the company to analyse current state of performance and give guidance for the firm’s sustainable improvements.\n\nHaving designed the processes of management system and analysed the performances using useful measurements, the final step is how to improve the system and maintain its effectiveness. Therefore, implementing the improvements is a key activity to examine the processes and improve the flow of the management system.\n\nAn organisation determines which part of processes must be improved and modified. It analyses how each process influences a set of activities and applies the improvements to some parts of system. The purpose of implementation is to operate its business strategically and to deliver sufficient resources. In effect, the process based management results in outputs that satisfy their customers and develop the business itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "885462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=885462", "title": "Rendering (animal products)", "text": "Rendering (animal products)\n\nRendering is a process that converts waste animal tissue into stable, usable materials. Rendering can refer to any processing of animal products into more useful materials, or, more narrowly, to the rendering of whole animal fatty tissue into purified fats like lard or tallow. Rendering can be carried out on an industrial, farm, or kitchen scale.\n\nThe majority of tissue processed comes from slaughterhouses, but also includes restaurant grease and butcher shop trimmings and expired meat from grocery stores. This material can include the fatty tissue, bones, and offal, as well as entire carcasses of animals condemned at slaughterhouses, and those that have died on farms, in transit, etc. The most common animal sources are beef, pork, sheep, and poultry.\n\nThe rendering process simultaneously dries the material and separates the fat from the bone and protein. A rendering process yields a fat commodity (yellow grease, choice white grease, bleachable fancy tallow, etc.) and a protein meal (meat and bone meal, poultry byproduct meal, etc.).\n\nRendering plants often also handle other materials, such as slaughterhouse blood, feathers and hair, but do so using processes distinct from true rendering.\n\nThe occupation of renderer has appeared in \"dirtiest jobs\" lists.\n\nThe rendering process varies in a number of ways:\n\nEdible rendering processes are basically meat processing operations and produce lard or edible tallow for use in food products. Edible rendering is generally carried out in a continuous process at low temperature (less than the boiling point of water). The process usually consists of finely chopping the edible fat materials (generally fat trimmings from meat cuts), heating them with or without added steam, and then carrying out two or more stages of centrifugal separation. The first stage separates the liquid water and fat mixture from the solids. The second stage further separates the fat from the water. The solids may be used in food products, pet foods, etc., depending on the original materials. The separated fat may be used in food products, or if in surplus, may be diverted to soap making operations. Most edible rendering is done by meat packing or processing companies.\n\nOne edible product is greaves, which is the unmeltable residue left after animal fat has been rendered.\n\nAn alternative process cooks slaughterhouse offal to produce a thick, lumpy \"stew\" for the pet food industry, which uses it principally in tinned cat and dog foods. Such plants are notable for the offensive odour that they can produce, and are often located well away from human habitation.\n\nMaterials that for aesthetic or sanitary reasons are not suitable for human food are the feedstocks for inedible rendering processes. Much of the inedible raw material is rendered using the \"dry\" method. This may be a batch or a continuous process in which the material is heated in a steam-jacketed vessel to drive off the moisture and simultaneously release the fat from the fat cells. The material is first ground, then heated to release the fat and drive off the moisture, percolated to drain off the free fat, and then more fat is pressed out of the solids, which at this stage are called \"cracklings\" or \"dry-rendered tankage\". The cracklings are further ground to make meat and bone meal.\n\nA variation on a dry process involves finely chopping the material, fluidizing it with hot fat, and then evaporating the mixture in one or more evaporator stages. Some inedible rendering is done using a wet process, which is generally a continuous process similar in some ways to that used for edible materials. The material is heated with added steam and then pressed to remove a water-fat mixture that is then separated into fat, water, and fine solids by stages of centrifuging and/or evaporation. The solids from the press are dried and then ground into meat and bone meal. Most independent renderers process only inedible material.\n\nThe development of rendering was primarily responsible for the profitable utilization of meat industry by-products, which in turn allowed the development of a massive industrial-scale meat industry that made food more economical for the consumer.\nRendering has been carried out for many centuries, primarily for soap and candle making. The earliest rendering was done in a kettle over an open fire. This type of rendering is still done on farms to make lard (pork fat) for food purposes. With the development of steam boilers, it was possible to use steam-jacketed kettles to make a higher grade product, and reduce fire danger. A further development came in the 19th century with the use of steam digesters: a tank used as a pressure cooker where steam was injected into the material being rendered. This process is a wet rendering process called \"tanking\" and was used for edible and inedible products, although better grades of edible products were made using the open kettle process. After the material is tanked, the free fat is run off, the remaining water (\"tank water\") run into a separate vat, and the solids removed and dried by pressing and steam-drying in a jacketed vessel. The tank water was either run into a sewer or it was evaporated to make glue or protein concentrate to add to fertilizer. The solids were used for fertilizer.\n\nUpton Sinclair wrote \"The Jungle\" (1906), an exposé on the Chicago meat processing industry which created public outrage. His work helped the passage of the Pure Food and Drug Act of 1907 which paved the way for the creation of the FDA.\n\nThe pressure tank made possible the development of the Chicago meat industry in the United States, with its concentration in one geographic area, because it allowed the economic disposal of byproducts which would otherwise overwhelm the environment in that area. At first, small companies that sprang up near the packers did the rendering. Later the packers entered the rendering industry. Gustavus Swift, Nelson Morris, and Lucius Darling were among the early pioneers of the U.S. rendering industry with their personal backing and/or direct participation in the rendering industry.\n\nInnovations came rapidly in the 20th century. Some of these were the uses for rendered products, and others were the rendering methods. In the 1920s, a batch dry rendering process was invented; the material was cooked in horizontal steam-jacketed cylinders (similar to the fertilizer dryers of the day). Advantages claimed for the dry process were economy of energy, better protein yield, faster processing, and fewer obnoxious odors. Over the years, the wet \"tanking\" process was replaced with the dry process. By the end of World War II, most rendering installations used the dry process. In the 1960s, continuous dry processes were introduced, one using a variation of the conventional dry cooker and the other making use of a mincing and evaporation process to dry the material and yield the fat. In the 1980s, high energy costs popularized the various \"wet\" continuous processes. These processes were more energy efficient and allowed the re-use of process vapours to pre-heat or dry the materials during the process.\n\nAfter WWII, synthetic detergents arrived, which displaced soaps in domestic and industrial washing. In the early 1950s, over half of the inedible fat market vanished. Diversion in these materials into animal feeds soon replaced the lost soap market and eventually became the single largest use for inedible fats.\n\nThe widespread use of \"boxed beef\", where the beef was cut into consumer portions at packing plants rather than local butcher shops and markets, meant that fat and meat scraps for renderers stayed at the packing plants and were rendered there by packer renderers, rather than by the independent rendering companies.\n\nThe rejection of animal fats by diet-conscious consumers led to a surplus of edible fats, and the resultant diversion into soapmaking and oleochemicals, displacing inedible fats and contributing to the market volatility of this commodity.\n\nThe rendering industry is one of the oldest recycling industries, and made possible the development of a large food industry. The industry takes what would otherwise be waste materials and makes useful products such as fuels, soaps, rubber, plastics, etc. At the same time, rendering solves what would otherwise be a major disposal problem. As an example, the USA recycles more than 21 million metric tons annually of highly perishable and noxious organic matter. In 2004, the U.S. industry produced over 8 million metric tons of products, of which 1.6 million metric tons were exported.\n\nUsually, materials used as raw materials in the rendering process are susceptible to spoilage. However, after rendering, the materials are much more resistant to spoiling. This is due to the application of heat either through cooking in the wet rendering process or the extraction of fluid in the dry rendering process. The fat obtained can be used as low-cost raw material in making grease, animal feed, soap, candles, biodiesel, and as a feed-stock for the chemical industry. Tallow, derived from beef waste, is an important raw material in the steel rolling industry providing the required lubrication when compressing steel sheets.\n\nMeat and bones (in a dry, ground state) are converted to \"meat and bone meal\". Health professionals believe that meat and bone meal in animal feed was the main route for the late-20th century spread of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (mad-cow disease, BSE), which is also fatal to human beings. Early in the 21st century, most countries tightened regulations to prevent this.\n\nIf not for the rendering industry, the cost of waste animal material would be high and would place a significant economic and environmental burden on areas involved in industrial scale slaughtering. This cost would manifest itself through the use of expensive sanitary landfills, incinerators, and other similar waste disposal techniques without yielding profit from opportunity costs. Alternatives to rendering products may not reduce cost.\n\nRendering of fats is also carried out on a kitchen scale by chefs and home cooks. In the kitchen, rendering is used to transform butter into clarified butter, suet into tallow, pork fat into lard, and chicken fat into schmaltz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "372291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372291", "title": "Royal Farms Arena", "text": "Royal Farms Arena\n\nRoyal Farms Arena (originally the Baltimore Civic Center and formerly Baltimore Arena and 1st Mariner Arena) is an arena located in Baltimore. The Arena is located about a block away from the Baltimore Convention Center on the corner of Baltimore Street and Hopkins Place; it is also only a short distance from the Inner Harbor. It seats 11,100 and can be expanded up to 14,000, depending upon the event. The Arena is owned by the city of Baltimore and is currently managed by SMG, a private management company.\n\nThe Arena officially opened October 23, 1962. Designed by AG Odell Jr. and Associates, it was built on the site of \"Old Congress Hall\", where the Continental Congress met in 1776. As a cornerstone for the Inner Harbor redevelopment during the 1980s, it was reopened after renovations and was renamed the Baltimore Arena in 1986. In 2003, it was renamed for 1st Mariner Bank, which purchased naming rights to the arena for 10 years. It was reported that 1st Mariner Bank paid the city $75,000 a year to keep the naming rights to the complex. When this naming rights agreement ended in 2013, the arena was briefly returned to its \"Baltimore Arena\" name, until Royal Farms purchased the naming rights in September 2014. This deal calls for Royal Farms to pay $250,000 annually for five years to the city, and gives Royal Farms first rights to renew or restructure their deal at the end of the contract, or in the event that the city constructs a new arena.\n\nA cornerstone to the Arena was laid in 1961 with a vault that included messages from then-U.S. President John F. Kennedy, then-Maryland governor J. Millard Tawes, and then-Baltimore Mayor J. Harold Grady. The vault was opened in 2006.\n\nThe current site that was chosen for the Baltimore Civic Center was actually not one of the many sites proposed to the Greater Baltimore Committee in 1955. Among nine suggested locations were two in Druid Hill Park, three at the end of the Inner Harbor basin (where the World Trade Center and Harborplace are now located), and one in Clifton Park.\n\nThe Arena has been host to many events, including music, boxing, wrestling, and other sports.\n\nFrom 1962 through 1976, the Baltimore Clippers of the American Hockey League played their home games at the Arena. The Clippers withdrew from the AHL in mid-season, 1974–75, to allow the Baltimore Blades (the relocated Michigan Stags) of the World Hockey Association (WHA) to finish their season. The Clippers regrouped for one final AHL season 1975–76. The Arena has hosted two other AHL franchises: the Baltimore Skipjacks lasted from 1981 to 1993, and the Baltimore Bandits played two seasons from 1995 to 1997.\n\nIn 1962, the Arena hosted a boxing match between Joey Giardello and Johnny Morris.\n\nAlso in 1963, the Arena became the home of the Baltimore Bullets, who played there until 1973.\n\nThe Beatles performed at the Arena on September 13, 1964, to a total of 28,000 attendees in two performances on the same day, at 4:00 pm and 8:30 pm.\n\nOn April 3, 1965, defending WWWF champion Bruno Sammartino defeated Gene Kiniski in a return title match. Just a few months later, in January 1966, Kiniski would win the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) title.\n\nIn 1966, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. gave a speech, \"Race and the Church\", before a gathering of Methodist clergy at the Baltimore Civic Center.\n\nThe NBA All-Star Game was played at the Arena in 1969.\n\nThe venue also hosted Led Zeppelin several times through the early 1970s. A couple of scenes from the Led Zeppelin concert film \"The Song Remains the Same\" were filmed backstage.\n\nOn June 13, 1970, The Jimi Hendrix Experience played the Civic Center with a last-minute decision to visit from New York and sold out. This was noted to be one of the best performances of the whole 1970 tour and was one of the last shows Hendrix played before his death a few months later.\n\nElvis Presley played the Civic Center twice: Tuesday Nov. 9, 1971, 8:30pm (wearing the Red Lion Suit) and Sunday May 29, 1977 8:30pm (wearing the Mexican Sundial Suit). These were less than three months before his untimely death. Both shows were complete sell-outs.\n\nThe Grateful Dead's performance on September 17, 1972, was recorded and later released as \"Dick's Picks Volume 23\". It contains the complete concert, except for the encore, which was \"One More Saturday Night\". It contains the longest CD version of \"The Other One\", to date, at nearly 40 minutes long.\n\nIn 1974, the World Team Tennis (WTT) Baltimore Banners played their home games there. Number 1 in the world Jimmy Connors was on that team. After Connors defeated Ken Roswall in Wimbledon they played each other at the Arena in a rematch. Billie Jean King played and coached the Philadelphia Freedoms of the WTT. Also, John Newcomb played there in the WTT.\n\nThe Civic Center was host to the 1974 and 1975 MEAC Men's Basketball Tournament.\n\nIn 1975, professional basketball returned briefly with the Baltimore Claws of the American Basketball Association (ABA). The Memphis Sounds relocated to Baltimore following the 1974–75 ABA season and were first called the Baltimore Hustlers, before changing their name. Troubled financially from the start, the Claws folded after three road exhibition games.\n\nThe Arena was the home of the Major Indoor Soccer League's Baltimore Blast since their arrival in the 1980–1981 season until the league folded in 1992. The Blast won their only championship in the 1983-84 season which was attended by upwards of 11,200 fans. The Blast, regardless of incarnation, were the longest-serving tenant in the Arena's history.\n\nIn 1986, the Arena was host to popular Italian opera singer Luciano Pavarotti.\n\nVan Halen performed at the Arena on July 22, 1980 as part of their Van Halen World Invasion Tour.\n\nBon Jovi performed to a sold-out Arena crowd during their Slippery When Wet Tour on December 29, 1986.\n\nDef Leppard performed at the Arena on October 9, 1987 during their Hysteria World Tour.\n\nThe Arena was the home of the Major Indoor Lacrosse League (MILL) and later the National Lacrosse League (NLL) Baltimore Thunder from 1987 through 1999. The Thunder won the inaugural MILL championship. Notable players include Gary Gait, Tom Gravante (head Men's Lacrosse coach at Mount St. Mary's University) and Hugh Donovan.\n\nThe Arena was a frequent venue for Jim Crockett Promotions (NWA) and World Championship Wrestling (WCW). Starting in 1988, The Great American Bash pay-per-view was held at the Arena eight times. It also hosted SuperBrawl V in 1995. Sting defeated Ric Flair to win his first NWA World Championship at 1990's Great American Bash, and Ron Simmons upset Vader in 1992 for the WCW title, becoming the first African-American to hold a major world title. The nWo was reformed in 1999 at the Royal Farms Arena with Bret Hart, Kevin Nash, Scott Hall and Jeff Jarrett on the Nitro after Starrcade\n\nThe Arena has also hosted many WWE events over the years. Most notably the 1994 King of the Ring, No Mercy (2003), No Way Out 2006, Backlash 2008, Extreme Rules (2010), and , as well as multiple \"Raw\" and \"SmackDown!\" tapings. Major title changes to take place in the Arena include Superstar Billy Graham over Bruno Sammartino in 1977 for the WWWF championship and Tito Santana over Greg \"The Hammer\" Valentine in 1985 for the WWF Intercontinental title in a steel cage match.\n\nIn 1989, the Arena was host to the U.S. National Figure Skating Championships. Three years later, the International Olympic Committee held the U.S. Olympic Gymnastics Trials there. In 1995, the Arena was host to the NCAA Men's Basketball Division 1 games (Rounds 1 & 2).\n\nThe NBA Washington Bullets played a few home games at the Arena during the 1990s. Their final game at the Arena was a 94-87 victory over the Dallas Mavericks on March 29, 1997.\n\nThe Arena has also been a staple on the PBR's Built Ford Tough Series bull riding tour. It first visited the Arena from 2001 to 2003, then came back again from 2008 to 2010. It returned in 2012 and again in 2015.\n\nIn July 2004, the Arena was host to the US debut of Japanese rock band L'Arc-en-Ciel, as part of the anime and east Asian culture convention Otakon.\n\nOn December 3–4, 2004, the Arena hosted the final Vans Triple Crown Of Freestyle Motocross events.\n\nOn February 1, 2006, the Arena hosted the first concert by The Rolling Stones, in Baltimore, since 1969, which was also at the Arena.\n\nOn February 19, 2006, No Way Out 2006 was held in Baltimore, the WWE's first pay-per-view in the city since No Mercy 2003. Kurt Angle defeated The Undertaker to retain the World Heavyweight Championship.\n\nIt was selected as the site of the 2006 Miss USA Pageant.\n\nOn February 11, 2008, the Arena also hosted a rally for presidential candidate Barack Obama.\n\nOn April 27, 2008, Backlash 2008 was held in Baltimore. Triple H defeated Randy Orton to win the WWE Championship.\n\nOn November 20, 2009, Bruce Springsteen & The E Street Band performed at the Arena, recreating the entirety of their landmark album \"Born to Run\"; it was their first tour stop in Baltimore since 1973.\n\nSeveral country-pop music acts have made tour stops at the Arena, including Carrie Underwood and George Strait.\n\n\nThe Arena has also been a staple on the PBR's Built Ford Tough Series bull riding tour. It first visited the Arena from 2001 to 2003, then came back again from 2008 to 2010. It will return again in 2012.\nShogun Fights, the first promoter to bring professional Mixed Martial Arts to the state of Maryland, held its second event, Shogun Fights 2, on March 27, 2010. This event occurs twice each year, once in the Spring and again in the Fall.\n\nOn April 25, 2010, the Arena played host to WWE Extreme Rules. It has then played host to Monday Night Raw on June 20, 2011. This episode was named \"Power to the People\". It has played host to WWE's on December 18, 2011. It hosted the season 23 premiere of WWE Monday Night Raw on September 8, 2014 and ended the same WWE Raw season on September 7, 2015, with the main event being a six-man tag team match between John Cena and the Prime Time Players vs. Seth Rollins and The New Day. WWE Payback was held in this Arena on May 17, 2015.\n\nThe Colonial Athletic Association announced they would be moving their men's basketball tournament to the Arena in 2014 under a three-year contract after a 24-year run at the Richmond Coliseum. It is the first time the tournament will be held outside the state of Virginia.\n\nOn April 26, 2014, the Royal Farms Arena hosted UFC 172: Jones vs. Teixeira.\n\nOn October 20, 2014, RFA held an NBA preseason game between the Washington Wizards, who played several games there in the 1990s as the Bullets, and the New Orleans Pelicans.\n\nIn still more recent years, the Arena continues holding events such as Garth Brooks (five sold-out concerts in January 2016), Eagles (July 2015), Prince (May 2015), Stevie Wonder (April 2015).\n\nOn November 14, 2016, Monumental Sports & Entertainment (owners of the Washington Wizards of the NBA, Washington Capitals of the NHL, Washington Mystics of the WNBA and the new Washington Valor of the Arena Football League) announced that they had been granted a second Arena Football League franchise, the Baltimore Brigade, to play at the Royal Farms Arena. It is the first time the AFL played in Baltimore and the first team to play in Maryland since the Maryland Commandos played at the Capital Centre in 1989. On July 28, 2018, the Arena and Brigade is set to host its first ArenaBowl championship, ArenaBowl XXXI. \n\n\nOn October 16, 2004, \"The Baltimore Sun\" revealed that official steps had been taken toward replacing the Arena, then 42 years old. The Maryland Stadium Authority had started soliciting proposals for a feasibility study on building an Arena in downtown Baltimore, due on November 1, 2004. According to the request for proposals, the new Arena would be built on the same site of Royal Farms Arena and \"would have a smaller seating capacity than would be required for an NHL or NBA team\" but it did not set a specific seating capacity.\n\nOn May 15, 2006, \"The Baltimore Sun\" reported that the feasibility study started in 2004 had been released publicly and the study stated that the current Arena had \"served its useful life\" and that Baltimore must build a new Arena or face the risk of losing events. The study rejected a proposal to repair the Arena's aging systems, citing an estimated cost of $60 million, and instead suggested that the city demolish Royal Farms Arena and build a new Arena on the same site or elsewhere in Baltimore. Notably the proposed new Arena would seat only 15,000 to 16,000 people; the study assumed that Baltimore would never be successful in attracting a major pro team in the future; however, city officials were still open to this idea.\n\nConceivably, the new arena could be successful in attracting a minor-league hockey team, bringing more than 200 new jobs and generating up to $1 million in additional tax revenue. City officials have said that the private sector would need to bear the brunt of the estimated $162-million construction cost of the new arena, as the city is also considering giving up ownership of the arena. The Baltimore Development Corporation (BDC) stated that it would begin seeking interested developers for the project by June 2007. BDC's President M. J. \"Jay\" Brodie said it was a \"miracle\" that the current Arena books as many events as it does in its current state. City officials have said the location of the new Arena would be dependent on what the developers suggest. Officials stated that they are equally comfortable with keeping the current Arena, building the new Arena in a new location, then demolishing the current Arena, or encouraging a mixed-use development in the site of the current Arena. Advocates for downtown, including the Downtown Partnership and the Westside Renaissance, want the new Arena to remain in the downtown area.\n\nOn November 18, 2007, WJZ 13 reported that seven sites have been submitted to the BDC for a new Arena, and the choices will be narrowed down by the Spring of 2008.\n\nOn July 24, 2008, it was reported that the new Arena will be built on the same site as the current one, with a capacity of upwards of 18,500. It was unknown at that time what would happen to concerts and events while construction is underway, or who would develop the new Arena. However, there have been talks about building a temporary facility for events. The Arena was planned to be completed within three years.\n\nOn August 27, 2008, \"The Baltimore Sun\" reported that developers were looking for designers to build an apartment building and outdoor shopping stores to be a part of the new Royal Farms Arena. Also, the developers announced that they were accepting all design proposals until November 26, 2008, and that, by the summer of 2009, they planned to make a final design decision.\n\nOn December 17, 2008, the \"Baltimore Examiner\" reported that the Baltimore Development Corp. had received four proposals for the Royal Farms Arena replacement that could take away a \"major entertainment venue\" for Baltimore for up to \"4 years\" and the estimated price is $300 million, but could be more depending on additional retail and hotel uses. The Arena is reported to be an 18,500-seat venue built on the site of the current Royal Farms Arena. The four proposals were:\n\nESmith Legacy and Garfield Traub Development: ESmith Legacy was a team led by former NFL player Emmitt Smith that has offices in Baltimore. This proposal included the following features in addition to the larger Arena:\n\n\nStreuver Brothers Eccles & Rouse: A well known Baltimore-based developer. This proposal included:\n\n\nCormony Development and Harrison Development: Respectively, Rockville- and Baltimore-based development firms who have been involved since 2007. This proposal includes:\n\n\nA&R Development, J Street Development Co., and Accent Development Co.: A partnership of Baltimore-based A&R and Washington based J Street and Accent Development under the name Arena Development. This proposal includes:\n\n\nThe Baltimore Examiner reported that the BDC could make a decision on the developer as soon as mid-2009.\n\nOn July 8, 2009, ArenaDigest.com reported that Baltimore City officials had postponed their plans for constructing a new Arena, due in part to the struggling economy, and the officials' decision split between building either an 18,500-seat Arena for a possible NBA or NHL franchise, or constructing a mid-size facility for concerts, family events, and minor league sports.\n\nHowever, on November 12, 2010, with the recession rebounding, Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake announced that city officials were considering new sites for a new arena. The plan called for Royal Farms Arena to remain open, while a new arena was constructed. While Rawlings-Blake believed that the new Arena would most likely to be erected in the city's West Side, the Greater Baltimore Committee suggested building the Arena as an expansion to the Baltimore Convention Center, to help re-develop the Inner Harbor. The cost would range from $750 to $930 million, since it would include the 18,500-seat Arena, expansion of the Baltimore Convention Center, an underground garage, and a new 500-room Sheraton hotel; the proposed Arena site is where the current Sheraton hotel rests.\n\nOn January 14, 2015, David S. Cordish, the chairman and CEO of the Cordish Company, proposed to build a 15,000–16,000-seat waterfront Arena, but built with expanded capacity in mind. The Arena, accommodated with an outdoor amphitheater and a pedestrian bridge to connect the Inner Harbor and Federal Hill, would cost $450 million and tie up with Harbor East and Power Plant Live. However, the Cordish proposal was scrapped when Maryland Governor Larry Hogan cancelled the Red Line, project, which was a dire need for the Arena.\n\nOn August 3, 2016, talks about the convention center/Arena proposal resumed. Since then, a few more studies for a new arena have been planned, including a possible renovation of Royal Farms Arena and construction of a new Arena at the city's State Center station.\n\nThe Royal Farms Arena is immediately adjacent to the University Center/Baltimore Street stop on the Baltimore Light Rail. The Charles Center Metro Subway Station and many bus lines are also nearby.\n\n"}
{"id": "34149650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34149650", "title": "Russian Accounting Standards", "text": "Russian Accounting Standards\n\nRussian Accounting Standards (RAS; ), also called Russian Accounting Principles (RAP) or Russian GAAP, refer to the body of regulatory documents concerning financial accounting and reporting standards in the Russian Federation.\n\nFor historical reasons, the Russian Accounting Standards framework has been determined by the state, rather by professional bodies. The primary users of RAS are state and tax authorities, rather than management or third parties. RAS financial statements must include balance sheet, income statement, statement of changes in equity, cash flow statement and explanatory notes. Under RAS, a specific layout is mandatory for the balance sheet and other statements.\n\nThe Russian government has been striving to harmonize Russian Accounting Standards with IFRS since 1998. The Law No. 208-FZ introduced IFRS into Russian legislation in 2010. Since 2012, IFRS have increasingly been adopted in Russia, and they are mandatory for consolidated financial statements, while standalone financial statements must be prepared using RAS. IFRS statements are also required for domestic public companies. IFRS are generally deemed more relevant to the needs of investors.\n\nMajor reasons for deviation between Russian GAAP and IFRS / US-GAAP (e.g. when the Russian affiliate of a larger group need to be consolidated to the mother company) are the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37011797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37011797", "title": "San Jose BioCenter", "text": "San Jose BioCenter\n\nThe San Jose BioCenter is a business incubator formed as a university foundation in 2004 and focused on the initiation and development of technology companies, with an emphasis on the life sciences industry. The BioCenter emerged from San Jose State University in an effort to revitalize an industrial area of San Jose, California. , the BioCenter had thirty-five member (assisted) companies and twelve affiliate (supporting) companies. In addition to office space, the BioCenter provides wet laboratory facilities to member companies.\n\nThe BioCenter was awarded in 2009 two \"incubator of the year\" awards from the National Business Incubation Association.\n"}
{"id": "24525215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24525215", "title": "Share transmission", "text": "Share transmission\n\nShare transmission is a mechanism by which the title to shares is devolved other than by transfer. This is typically applicable for:\n\nWhen a previous owner of shares dies and his shares are inherited by his personal representatives or heirs, this is called transmission of shares.Shares may be inherited only by production of probate of a will of the deceased owner or letters of administration of his estate granted by the High Court.(section 148 of COMPANIES AND ALLIED MATTERS ACT (CAMA)under NIGERIAN LAW ). The beneficiaries of the shares by transmission must have their names entered in the register of members of the company or elect a nominee to hold the shares on their behalf. In this case the nominee’s name shall be entered in the Register of members of the company to become a member of the company.(section 155 (3) of CAMA).\n\nTransmission of shares occurs when the shares of a deceased share holder are inherited or bequeathed to an heir or personal representative of the deceased shareholder. Where shares are held by two or more persons jointly then upon death of one or more of them, the surviving person shall be entitled to all the shares and they may be transferred to his name. Where the shareholder held the shares as a sole owner, then his shares may be transferred only to the person named in his will or if he died without a will, then to the person who obtains letters of administration from the High Court in respect of the shares or the deceased’s property. Section 148 of CAMA. The above are in Law recognized as the personal representatives of the deceased share holder and are entitled to have his shares transferred to them or their nominee. (Section 155 of CAMA).\n\nSometimes a deceased member may name some persons as the administrators of his estate who are to ensure the deceased’s properties are distributed and/or managed as stated in the will. These persons therefore inherit the deceased persons shares on behalf and for the benefit of those who are named in the will as the beneficiaries inherit. The administrators therefore only have an equitable right in the shares but not the beneficial rights.This right becomes a legal right only when the shares are transferred to those entitled under the will. It is the duty of the executors of the will who in this case are the personal representatives of the deceased to ensure that they nominate those entitled to the shares under the will as those to whom the shares should be transferred to. (section 155 (3) of CAMA).\n\nAny person claiming to have an interest in any shares or the dividends or interest on those shares may protect his interest by swearing to an affidavit indicating the nature of his interest and serving the company with the affidavit. The company shall then enter on the register of members the fact that such notice has been served on the company. The company shall therefore not register any transfer of shares of the deceased in respect of which it had received the affidavit of interest. \nAny company which receives this notice of interest and in default proceeds to register any transfer in favor of any other person shall be personally liable to the person who lodged the notice of interest for any loss he suffers thereby. (Section 156 of CAMA) \nThe Company shall give notice of at least 42 days to any other person seeking a transfer to him, of the shares complained of, for the matter to be resolved otherwise, the proposed transfer will not be effected. section 156 (2)CAMA.\n\"Ownership\": on registration of the transmission of shares, the person entitled to transmission of shares becomes the shareholder of the company and is entitled to all rights and subject to all liabilities as such shareholder.\n\n\"Method\": while transfer of shares is brought about by delivery of a proper instrument of transfer (viz, transfer deed) duly stamped and executed, transmission of shares is done by forwarding the necessary documents (such as a notarised copy of death certificate) to the company.\n\nIn the case of death, the surviving shareholders have to submit a request letter supported by an attested copy of the death certificate of the deceased shareholder and the relevant share certificates. The company’s registrar and share transfer agent on receipt of the said documents will delete the name of deceased shareholder from its records and return the share certificates to the applicant/registered holder with necessary endorsement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56650986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56650986", "title": "Sir James Bell, 1st Baronet", "text": "Sir James Bell, 1st Baronet\n\nSir James Bell, 1st Baronet, DL JP (1850–1929) was a 19th century Scottish shipping owner and coal-exporter who served as Lord Provost of Glasgow from 1892 to 1896. \n\nHe was senior partner of Bell Brothers & McLelland, shipowners, usually using D & W Henderson Ltd as their builder, mainly using the Meadowside shipyard.\n\nHe was born in Glasgow on 16 January 1850 the son of John Bell, a collector of customs.\n\nIn 1890 he lived at 7 Marlborough Terrace in Glasgow.\n\nIn his role as Lord Provost he was most notable for adding electricity to the city streets, officially switching on the first street lights in 1893. He also improved the city sewage treatment and organised a new park, now known as Bellahouston Park.\n\nHe was created a baronet as \"Baronet of Marlborough Terrace\" by Queen Victoria in 1893, and was appointed Honorary Colonel of the 1st Lanarkshire Rifle Volunteers on 7 October that year.\n\nIn 1905 he lived at Montgreenan House near Kilwinning.\n\nHe died at Montgreenan in 1929.\nA serious yachtsman he entered the Americas Cup in 1887 with his yacht \"Thistle\" but was unsuccessful.\n\nThe yacht was designed by George Lennox Watson and built by D & W Henderson in the winter of 1886/7. The ship was captained by John and Charlie Barr. It lost out to the American yacht \"Volunteer\". It was then returned to Europe and sold to Kaiser Wilhelm II for personal use under the name \"Meteor\". It was broken up in 1921.\n\nHe was Vice Commodore of the Royal Clyde Yacht Club.\n\nHis wife, Miss Findlay of Hallhill, died in 1909.\n\nTheir son was killed at the Battle of Bakenlaagte in the Boer War.\n\nTheir son John Bell (1876-1943) became 2nd Baronet of Marlbourough Terrace in 1929 on his father's death.\n\nHe was portrayed in office by Hubert von Herkomer.\n"}
{"id": "15894238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15894238", "title": "Social marketing intelligence", "text": "Social marketing intelligence\n\nSocial marketing intelligence is the method of extrapolating valuable information from social network interactions and data flows that can enable companies to launch new products and services into the market at greater speed and lower cost. This is an area of research however, companies using social marketing intelligence have achieved significant improvement in marketing campaigns.\n\nThrough social marketing intelligence, companies can identify people that are the most influential within their communities. These are the most connected people within any given social network. These people, sometimes called the \"alpha users\" or \"hubs\" as in small-world network theory, have considerable influence over the spread of information within their social network.\n\nAlpha users are key elements of any social networks, who manage the connectivity of the core members of the community. Similar to how viruses spread in nature, there is an initial starting point to communications in social networks, and the originators of such communications are alpha users. They tend to be highly connected users with exceptional influence to the other thought-leaders of any social network.\n\nBefore digital communications, it was only possible to isolate the most influential members of any community by interviewing every member and tracing their full communication patterns within the social network. Traditional fixed landline telephone and internet use did not give enough accuracy to be able to pinpoint alpha users to a meaningful degree. With the advent of mobile phones, a personal digital communication channel was available to study. Early research by mathematicians at Xtract in Finland produced models that suggested mobile networks could indeed track the full communication and isolate the alpha users. Since then, several companies including Xtract have launched commercial tools to detect alpha users, usually using mobile operator billing and telecoms traffic data.\n\nEngagement marketing campaigns attempt to use alpha users as spokespersons in marketing and advertising. The idea is that consumers will trust more the opinion of their friend or known contact from a social network, than the random marketing and advertising messages of companies and brands. The desire is to achieve viral marketing effects by which the alpha users would spread the messages further.\n\nAlpha users were first briefly discussed in public in the book \"3G Marketing\" in 2004. The first industry article about alpha users was by Ahonen and Ahvenainen in Total Telecom in February 2005. The first telecoms conference where \"alpha user\" was explained was the 3G Mobile World Congress in Tokyo in January 2005. The topic was part of the strategy keynote address at the 3GSM World Congress in Cannes in February 2005. The first book to discuss alpha users at length was \"Communities Dominate Brands\" in 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8449472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8449472", "title": "Station master", "text": "Station master\n\nThe station master (or stationmaster) is the person in charge of a railway station, particularly in the United Kingdom and many other countries outside North America. In the United Kingdom, where the term originated, it is now largely historical or colloquial, with the contemporary term being station manager. However, the term \"station master\" remains current on many heritage railways, and also in many countries outside the United Kingdom, notably the extensive Indian Railways network.\n\nHistorically a male occupation, women were sometimes appointed to the position, and the gender variation \"station mistress\" was sometimes employed in such cases. In the United States the role is commonly termed station agent.\n\nThe station master is responsible for the management of other station employees and holds responsibility for safety and the efficient running of the station. The term was historically employed across stations of all sizes, leading to variation in the precise role. At a major city terminus, with potentially hundreds of employees, the station master's duties would focus on personnel management and public relations. At smaller town and country stations, with a more limited staff, the station master would have far more customer interaction with travelling passengers, and would commonly deputise for other members of staff in their absence.\n\nOn the contemporary British rail network a station manager at a major station has duties very similar to those described above. The more localised role of station master at small country stations no longer exists, with group station managers taking responsibility for two or more stations. In very rural areas a station manager may be responsible for a large number of stations, or even for all the stations on a local branch line.\n\nHistorically, the station master was deputised (in his absence) by an \"Assistant Station Master\" (ASM). In large stations this might be a full-time position. In smaller local stations the ASM title was often attached to another post, such as senior booking clerk, or even head porter. On heritage railways the ASM role is often unchanged from this historic role. The ASM post also continues in many Commonwealth nations, and other countries which have experienced British influence. In contemporary British railway operations the station manager is commonly deputised by one or more \"shift station managers\".\n\nThe number of other employees at a railway station varies according to size. A historic station master would typically manage a number of booking clerks (responsible for ticket sales and financial auditing), porters (responsible for platform safety, luggage transportation, and cleaning), and often ancillary staff in catering, left luggage, and maintenance roles. Although technically part of the engineering department, a station master might also have day-to-day management of signalmen in the station's signal box.\n\nFrom the late Victorian era onwards, station masters became prominent figures in local communities. Invariably they would be provided with a substantial house and, in rural communities particularly, would have significant social standing.\n\nThe uniforms worn by station masters, whilst varying widely between different railway companies, often incorporated gold braid embroidery, and peaked caps with gold banding, giving the office-holder a high profile in the community. With his uniform, official housing, and public prominence, the station master was respected and widely attributed with seniority in the local community.\n\nSome station masters achieved legendary fame in their communities. The late James Miller, long-serving station master at Oxford railway station, received widespread recognition for his devoted service in the post, including civic decoration, a public-subscription retirement gift, the award of the British Empire Medal, and the naming of a carriage siding after him.\n\nIn the Beeching cuts of the 1960s many small stations were closed and the station master's house, along with other railway property, sold off. Typically, these buildings retained their original name and in many communities the \"Station Master's House\" can still be found as a private dwelling or converted into a restaurant.\n\nIn current Indian society station masters continue to enjoy a high social standing, and there is considerable competition for vacancies. Indian Railways staff who have attained the grade of assistant station master (ASM), or station master (including regional station managers), have their own professional body or trade union, the All India Station Masters' Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "23752302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23752302", "title": "The Yes Men (film)", "text": "The Yes Men (film)\n\nThe Yes Men, is a 2003 documentary film about the early culture jamming exploits of The Yes Men. \n\nThe film revolves around \"The Yes Men\"—two anti-globalization activists, under the aliases Andy Bichlbaum and Mike Bonanno — who impersonate spokespeople for the WTO and affiliated corporations, in order to secretly lampoon and satirize these organizations with elaborate ruses and fraudulent announcements of ridiculous corporate decisions, in front of live, unsuspecting audiences (usually comprising businesspeople, university student bodies, and/or the press). The film details the two activists' involvement in hoaxes targeting SimCopter, the 2000 G. W. Bush presidential campaign, McDonald's, and, most prominently, the WTO. The film also includes brief interviews with Michael Moore and Greg Palast.\n\nThe film premiered at the 28th Toronto International Film Festival in 2003. It was also shown as part of a special screening at the 2004 Sundance Film Festival. The film received a score of 85% on Rotten Tomatoes. It is followed by a sequel, \"The Yes Men Fix the World\".\n\n"}
{"id": "54914186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54914186", "title": "Tonyi Senayah", "text": "Tonyi Senayah\n\nTonyi Senayah is a Ghanaian businessman and the Chief Executive Officer of Horseman Shoes. Senayah began studying shoe making in 2009 under a local shoe maker at Lapaz. The brand has been featured in local and international media, notably \"CNN\" and DW networks.\n\nSenayah went to Prempeh college in Kumasi and is a sociology graduate of the University of Ghana, Legon where he was also a student leader.\n\nIn 2010, he opened Horseman Shoes, a Ghanaian-based footwear manufacturing company that produces men’s dress shoes, unisex sandals and slippers, school sandals, and safety boots.\n\nIn 2015, Senayah ranked 9th as the Most Influential Young Ghanaian out of a list of 50 personalities and 16th in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "58428627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58428627", "title": "Wayne Caines", "text": "Wayne Caines\n\nWayne Caines is a Bermudian politician currently serving as the Minister of National Security since the 2017 election. Caines represents Devonshire North West for the Progressive Labour Party.\n\nCaines is a graduate of Oakwood University in Huntsville, Alabama, the University of Kent and the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst. \n\nPrior to entering politics, Caines served as a Captain within the Bermuda Regiment and as a Crown Counsel at the Department of Public Prosecutions.\n\nPrior to entering Parliament, Caines was Chief of Staff in the Office of the Premier. He then served as a Progressive Labour Party Senator, becoming Junior Minister of Tourism, Transport, Environment and Sport. \n\nFollowing the Progressive Labour Party victory at the 2017 election, in which Caines was re-elected as member for Devonshire North West, Caines was appointed as Minister of National Security.\n\nIn 2018, Caines attracted media attention in both Bermuda and Britain, after he filmed himself asking female staff at the Cereal Killer Cafe in London whether \"titty milk\" was available, which he then posted to Instagram. After public criticism, Caines issued an apology, telling \"The Royal Gazette\" that he was \"deeply disappointed\" in himself.\n"}
{"id": "36114836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36114836", "title": "William Cunninghame", "text": "William Cunninghame\n\nWilliam Cunninghame of Lainshaw (1731–1799) was a Scottish tobacco merchant who, along with a handful of others in 18th century Glasgow, came to dominate and profit from the transatlantic trade. He made a fortune stockpiling cheap tobacco shortly before the American Revolution, assuming that Great Britain would not be able to retain control over her rebellious colonies, and then selling at high prices. Cunninghame's (much altered and expanded) neo-classical house on Glasgow's Queen Street today houses the collection of the Gallery of Modern Art.\n\nCunninghame was born in 1715 in Kilmarnock, Ayrshire, into a prosperous merchant family. He was a blood relative of Andrew Cochrane of Brighouse (1693-1777), who was one of Glasgow's most respected Lord Provosts. Family ties were of great importance in helping to build Cunninghame's growing fortune.\n\nCunninghame first sailed to America in 1746 as a young apprentice in the firm of Cochrane, Murdoch & Company. After four years of training he was promoted to become a manager and in 1752 he came to oversee all the company business in Virginia.\n\nIn 1762 he returned to Scotland, where he became the principal partner in the firm of Cochrane, Murdoch & Co. By the early 1770s he changed the company name to William Cunninghame & Company, and it grew to become one of the city's five largest importers.\n\nTwice a year his flagship - modestly named \"The Cunninghame\" - arrived in the Chesapeake Bay, loaded with European luxury goods such as silverware and furniture, and ready to collect Tobacco for export back to Europe. Cunninghame, like the other Glasgow merchants, extended credit to the growers enabling them to buy goods from the company store before their tobacco was sold at market. However, many growers found themselves deeply in debt and thereby forced to accept low prices for their crop. Cunningham was known to offer prices as much as 10% below market value to distressed growers.\n\nCunninghame made an even greater fortune from the tobacco scarcity caused by the American War of Independence. On the outbreak of war, Cunningham's business partners found themselves in possession of substantial stocks of tobacco which they had purchased for around three pence per pound. As war began to disrupt the trade the price rose, and Cunningham’s partners, confident that the rebellious colonists would soon be defeated, sold out their stock at sixpence per pound. Cunningham took the opposite view and he personally purchased their entire stock. Eventually, as the long war disrupted supplies, the price of tobacco rose to a staggering 3 shillings and sixpence, making a huge fortune for Cunninghame.\n\nLike many wealthy Glasgow merchants, Cunninghame used his profits to buy a country estate. In 1778 he purchased for £26,200 for the estate of Lainshaw, in Ayrshire. He also purchased a property in the Cow Loan in Glasgow, which he renamed Queen Street after the wife of George III, and in 1780 he built there a large mansion in the neo-classical style at a cost of £10,000, an immense sum at the time.\n\nIn 1779 he completed his rise to the wealthy landed gentry by registering his family coat-of-arms at the office of the Lord Lyon in Edinburgh. In 1780 Cunninghame retired from the tobacco business, although he was not yet fifty years old.\n\nCunninghame married three times and had fourteen children. He disinherited his eldest sons Thomas and Alexander and it was his third son William Cunninghame who eventually inherited the estate in 1799.\n\nToday Cunninghame's neo classical palace on Glasgow's Queen Street houses the collection of the Gallery of Modern Art.\n\n\n\n"}
