{"id": "596913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=596913", "title": "A9.com", "text": "A9.com\n\nA9.com is a subsidiary of Amazon that develops search engine and search advertising technology. A9 is based in Palo Alto, California, with teams in Bangalore, Beijing, Dublin, Iași, Munich and Tokyo. A9 has development efforts in areas of product search, cloud search, visual search, augmented reality, advertising technology and community question answering.\n\nA9 was created by Amazon.com in 2003 as an independent company aimed at producing technology for search and advertising. They moved into the building previously used by the DEC Systems Research Center in Palo Alto, California. \nOne purpose of A9.com was to leverage algorithms, and the name was chosen as a numeronym to represent that word (i.e. 'A' + 9 other letters).\nThe office was in Silicon Valley, near Stanford University.\nUnder the direction of its first president, Udi Manber, A9 focused on several areas, including the A9.com destination website,\nproduct search, and a search advertising platform. Some early A9 services such as \"search inside the book\" continued, while others have been discontinued. \nThe A9 search engine powers product search for Amazon.com and several other eCommerce retailers.\n\nIn February 2006, Manber was replaced by David L. Tennenhouse as president. \nIn September 2006, William Stasior, one of A9's founders and a former AltaVista and Amazon.com executive, was named president.\nIn June 2009, A9 acquired SnapTell, which developed smartphone-based visual search applications.\n\nStasior left in October 2012 to join Apple Inc. and work on Siri.\nBrian Pinkerton, who had developed WebCrawler in the 1990s, became general manager of A9 in 2012.\n\nA9.com originally operated a search portal, along with an A9 toolbar, which was first demonstrated on April 14, 2004. The service featured some innovative design elements, allowing users to choose from over 400 sources to search and view results in separate columns grouped by source. In addition to web search results, users could get product search results from Amazon, encyclopedia results from Wikipedia, movie information from IMDb, and others, starting in September 2004. Web search results were provided by different search engines over time. The search portal functionality was discontinued in 2008.\n\nA9 developed a protocol called OpenSearch that enabled the \"plug-in\" search source functionality from the A9.com portal. The original specification, OpenSearch 1.0, was released in March 2005. A9 made the protocol freely available through a Creative Commons license. OpenSearch is now maintained by the OpenSearch.org community.\n\nA9 developed the first service that allowed users of maps and \"yellow pages\" (a telephone directory) to view buildings at street level. Called BlockView, the service was announced in January 2005. Within a year, the service included images for 24 US cities. Both BlockView and maps (as well as support for the A9 tool bar) were discontinued in September 2006.\n\nIn November 2006, A9 announced Clickriver, an advertising program that let third parties place advertisements on Amazon.com pages.\nClickriver focused primarily on products and services that complemented Amazon's own offerings. For example, if a customer viewed a television on Amazon, a Clickriver ad might offer installation services in his or her local area. Clickriver was discontinued in 2010, replaced by other Amazon advertising programs.\n\nA9 operated Askville, a community-based question-and-answer site first tested in December 2006. Service began in November 2007. Compared with other question-and-answer sites, Askville focused more on social interaction, allowing users to follow other users as well as track specific topics.\nOn October 25, 2013, Askville was shut down.\n\nCloudSearch is a managed Amazon Web Services service that makes client data searchable. For example, a business that wanted to allow customers to search their catalog could upload the catalog entries to CloudSearch and then route search requests from their application or web site to the service. CloudSearch instances could be brought online as data or traffic volume demanded. Sites using CloudSearch included SmugMug, and Sage Bionetworks.\n\nIn March 2014, Amazon moved away from using A9 for CloudSearch to technology based on Apache Solr.\n\nA9 continued to develop and operate the service that provides search on all nine Amazon.com sites, as well as other retail sites owned by Amazon such as Endless.com, Javari.de, and Audible.com. In addition, A9 search is also used by other retailers, such as Marks & Spencer, that license the Amazon retail platform for their online presence.\n\nA9 provided the \"search inside the book\" capability for Amazon. Announced in 2003, this service allows customers to search through the full text of hundreds of thousands of books. This feature is available both for searching individual books and for the entire book catalog. \n\nThe visual search group at A9 created mobile applications that recognize objects and allow users to find these products on Amazon.com. Their first augmented reality app, Flow, provided both object and barcode recognition. It was released in 2011.\n\nA9 visual search technology powers features to let customers search for certain products (such as shoes) by shape, and find visually similar items on Amazon.com, Zappos.com, Endless.com, and other retail sites.\n\nA9's advertising technology group began delivering sponsored link advertisements on the Amazon.com retail Web site in 2003 and continued to manage this program for Amazon properties. A9 also invests in display advertising technology, including technology for Amazon's ad-supported e-reader, the Kindle with special offers.\n"}
{"id": "55296142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55296142", "title": "Azerbaijan-the OIC relations", "text": "Azerbaijan-the OIC relations\n\nIn 1991, Azerbaijan joined the OIC and started to build relations with the organization. As a result, the ambassador of Azerbaijan to Saudi Arabia was given a mandate of permanent representative of Azerbaijan to the General Secretariat of the OIC in May 1994.\n\nA former Azerbaijani President Heydar Aliyev met with the OIC Secretary General in Baku in 1994. Furthermore, Heydar Aliyev attended the 7th Summit of Heads of States and Governments of the OIC member countries in Casablanca and made a speech in that year.\n\nIn 2005, current Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev attended the 3rd Extraordinary Summit of the OIC in Mecca. In 2015, President Aliyev met with the Secretary General of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Iyad Ameen Madan.\n\nBaku hosted the 33rd OIC Foreign Ministers Conference in 19–21 June 2006. Additionally, Mehriban Aliyeva, the President of Heydar Aliyev Foundation initiated to organize International Forum on “Expanding the Role of Women in Cross-Cultural Dialogue” in Baku on June 10–11, 2008.\n\nThe delegation led by Elmar Mammadyarov, Azerbaijani FM regularly participates at the OIC Foreign Ministers conferences.\n\nOn 22–23 November 2011, the Islamic Conference Youth Forum for Dialogue and Cooperation (ICYF-DC), Heydar Aliyev Foundation and Azerbaijani Government organized the Founding Convention of the OIC Countries Young Entrepreneurs Network in Baku. ICYEN is a collaborative initiative to create a platform for young Muslim entrepreneurs.\n\nIn 2017, the 4th Islamic Solidarity Games was held in Azerbaijan. An official opening ceremony was organized in Baku on May 12, 2017.\n\nFurthermore, Azerbaijan has achieved cooperation with other bodies of the OIC. In this regard, Azerbaijan’s First Lady and also head of the Heydar Aliyev Foundation Mehriban Aliyeva’s activities must be noted which contributed to the development of ties between Azerbaijan and the OIC. Therefore, Aliyeva was awarded with the diploma on Goodwill Ambassador of the ISESCO by the Director General of the ISESCO Dr. Abdulaziz Othman Altwaijri for her deeds to bring civilizations closer in 26 November 2006 . Moreover, Prof. Dr. Ekmeleddin Ihsanoghlu awarded her with the diploma on Special Envoy of the OIC on Humanitarian Affairs for her activity in the humanitarian field while attending the International Forum on “Expanding the Role of Women in Cross-Cultural Dialogue” which was held in Baku in 10–11 June 2008.\n\nOn 3 May 2017, a delegation led by Secretary General of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) Yousef Al-Othaimeen met with Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev. The meeting involved the discussions over the solidarity and cooperation between Muslim countries, Azerbaijan’s successful membership to the OIC and tourism potentials.\n\nArmenia-Azerbaijan, Nagorno-Karabakh conflict became one of the topic for discussions since Azerbaijan had been admitted to the membership of the OIC . The OIC adopted a number of resolutions regarding the conflict condemning the occupation of the Azerbaijani territories by Armenia:\n\n1.Final Communique of the 7th Session of The Islamic Summit Conference Casablanca, Kingdom of Morocco (13-15 December 1994) .\n\n2. Final Communique of the 8th Session of The Islamic Summit Conference Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran (9-11 December 1997)\n\n3. Final Communique of the 9th Session of The Islamic Summit Conference Doha, State of Qatar (12-13 November 2000)\n\n4. “Resolution no. 25/9-c (is) on the destruction and desecration of islamic historical and cultural relics and shrines in the occupied Azeri territories resulting from the republic of Armenia's aggression against the Republic of Azerbaijan”\n\n5. “Resolution No.21/9-P(IS) on the aggression of the Republic of Armenia against the Republic of Azerbaijan”\n\nDocuments and resolutions on Armenia-Azerbaijan, Nagorno-Karabakh conflict were approved at the OIC Foreign Ministers conferences, too. For instance, resolution No. 10/42-POL “On the Aggression of the Republic of Armenia against the Republic of Azerbaijan” adopted in the framework of the Forty Second Session of the Council of Foreign Ministers, held in Kuwait, State of Kuwait on 27–28 May 2015. The resolution strongly condemns Armenian aggression against Azerbaijan, considers the actions committed by the Armenian Armed Forces against the Azerbaijani civilians and other protected persons as crimes against humanity and calls the UN Security Council to recognize the existence of aggression against Azerbaijan.\n\nOIC Secretary General regularly commemorates the Khojaly Genocide committed by Armenian Armed Forces against Azerbaijani civilians in February 1992. In 2017, Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) Secretary-General Yousef al-Othaimeen called for the \"immediate\" and \"unconditional\" withdrawal of the Armenian Armed Forces from occupied Azerbaijani territories while marking the 25th anniversary of the 1992 Khojaly Genocide.\n\nAzerbaijan and OIC\n\nOIC\n\nOIC Contact Group to mull Armenia’s aggression against Azerbaijan in UN\n\nAzerbaijan-OIC\n"}
{"id": "17482765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17482765", "title": "Barreira do Inferno Launch Center", "text": "Barreira do Inferno Launch Center\n\nThe Barreira do Inferno Launch Center () is a rocket launch base of the Brazilian Space Agency. It was created in 1965, and is located in the city of Parnamirim, near Natal, the capital of the state of Rio Grande do Norte. It has been used for 233 launches from 1965 to 2007, reaching up to 1100 kilometers altitude.\n\nIt provides tracking support for launches from the Alcântara Launch Center and Guiana Space Centre.\n\nSeveral rockets where launched from CLBI:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4930971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4930971", "title": "Barrington Atlas of the Greek and Roman World", "text": "Barrington Atlas of the Greek and Roman World\n\nThe Barrington Atlas of the Greek and Roman World is a large-format English language atlas of ancient Europe, Asia, and North Africa, edited by Richard J. A. Talbert. The time period depicted is roughly from archaic Greek civilization (pre-550 BC) through Late Antiquity (640 AD). The atlas was published by Princeton University Press in 2000. The book was the winner of the 2000 Association of American Publishers Award for Best Professional/Scholarly Multivolume Reference Work in the Humanities.\n\nThe main (atlas) volume contains 102 color topographic maps, covering territory from the British Isles and the Azores and eastward to Afghanistan and western China. The size of the volume is 33 x 48 cm. A 45-page gazetteer is also included in the atlas volume. The atlas is accompanied by a map-by-map directory on CD-ROM, in PDF format, including a search index. The map-by-map directory is also available in print as a two-volume, 1,500 page edition.\n\nAccording to the editor, the purpose of each map is to offer an up-to-date presentation of the important physical and covered features of the area, using all available literal, epigraphic, and archaeological data.\n\nMost of the maps are of the scale 1:1,000,000 or 1:500,000. However, the environs of the three greater centers (Athens, Rome, Byzantium-Constantinople) are presented in 1:150,000. Some remote regions, where Greeks and Romans mostly explored and traded rather than settled (i.e. Baltic, Arabia, East Africa, India, Sri Lanka), are of the scale 1:5,000,000. Due to the nature of the base maps used for the background and time–cost restrictions, elevation lines (contours) were left in feet except for the 1:150,000 maps where they are in meters. The projection of the maps is Lambert Conformal Conic. Again due to time and cost restrictions, geo-referencing of the maps was left as a future separate project.\n\nEffort was spent to show the physical landscape in its ancient rather than modern aspect. As expected, this task often met insurmountable difficulties, due to the lack of data. In those cases, at least an effort was made to eliminate known modern features and to restore the affected landscapes.\n\nThe atlas' production began in 1988 at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, and involved a team of 221 classicists and 22 map makers. The effort was funded by $4.5 million—\"an unusually large sum for a project in the humanities\"—in federal and private donations. The largest individual contributor was Robert B. Strassler's family philanthropy \"The Barrington Foundation\" which supported the project with over $1 million and for which, in accordance with the donor's wishes, the atlas is named. (The foundation, in turn, is named after the Strassler family's place of residence, Great Barrington, Massachusetts.)\n\nThe atlas provides an up-to-date reference for ancient geography, superseding William Smith's \"An Atlas of Ancient Geography, Biblical and Classical\" (London: John Murray, 1872–1874), the last successfully completed attempt to comprehensively map the Greco-Roman world and reflect the state of scholarship.\n\nAn ongoing wiki-like on-line large scale collaboration for maintaining and diversifying the \"Barrington Atlas\" data-set is carried on by the Pleiades Project.\n\nThe time period covered is roughly from 1000 BC up to c. AD 640, categorized as following:\nAll eras are covered in every map (i.e. there are not separate maps for different periods of the same region).\n\nThe Latin titles given to the regional categories and to the individual maps (see below) are no more than generalized identifications. E.g. Internum Mare (literally, \"Internal Sea\") is the region around Mediterranean Sea.\n\nInside maps, ancient names are underlined with specific colors, when they are applicable only to a specific era. Where modern names are used, they are printed in different (sans-serif) font. For the physical features, standard Latin descriptive terms are usually used (e.g. Lacus for Lake, Mons for Mountain). Explanations for these terms are given in the Map Key. When there is doubt whether the name correctly applies to a feature or area, it is followed by a question mark. When only the approximate location is known, the name is italicized.\n\n\nThe two volumes (and the CD-ROM) contain:\n\nThe CD-ROM also contains the gazetteer in PDF format and an installer of the version 4 of Adobe Acrobat Reader with Search for Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X. However, on Windows systems with the latest version of the Adobe Acrobat Reader already installed, installation of the version 4 might lead to incompatibility problems.\n\nThe supplied PDF index file BATLINDX.PDX is readable for Acrobat Reader versions up to and including version 9.\nFor version X and later, using the \"Use Advanced Search Options\" item in the \"Edit\" menu may be a workaround.\nHowever, searching the complete index directory will take a while and with each new search the scanning of PDF files starts again from scratch. In general it will be faster to look for a name in the index. So, though the atlas claims to be \"a reference work of permanent value\", a simple Acrobat Reader update will cripple its usability even for users who have the printed version of the map-by-map directory available, because the index shows only the main entries for each object.\n\nThe map-by-map directory and the gazetteer are also available in PDF format at the Princeton University Press website. Until 2013, a free download of the CD-ROM as a ZIP file was offered as well.\n\nIn November 2013, PUP released an iPad 2+ App version of the Atlas which retailed at a 95% discount from the hardcover edition making it more accessible to the average reader. It contains the complete contents of the atlas and is searchable.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54278600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54278600", "title": "Climatic geomorphology", "text": "Climatic geomorphology\n\nClimatic geomorphology is the study of the role of climate in shaping landforms and the earth-surface processes. An approach used in climatic geomorphology is to study relict landforms to infer ancient climates. Being often concerned about past climates climatic geomorphology considered sometimes to be an aspect of historical geology. Since landscape features in one region might have evolved under climates different than today, studying climatically disparate regions might help understand present-day landscapes. For example, Julius Büdel studied both cold-climate processes in Svalbard and weathering processes in tropical India to understand the origin of the relief of Central Europe, which he argued was a palimpsest of landforms formed at different times and under different climates.\n\nThe various subbranches of climatic geomorhpology focus on specific climatic environments. \n\nDesert geomorphology or the geomorphology of arid and semi-arid lands shares many landsforms and processes with more humid regions. One distinctive feature is the sparse or lacking vegetation cover, which influences fluvial and slope processes, related to wind and salt activity. Early work on desert geomorphology was done by Western explorers of the colonies of their respective countries in Africa (French West Africa, German South West Africa, Western Egypt), in frontier regions of their own countries (American West, Australian Outback) or in the deserts of foreign countries such as the Ottoman Empire, the Russian Empire and China. Since the 1970s desert geomorphology in Earth has served to find analogues to Martian landscapes.\n\nAs a discipline periglacial geomorphology is close but different to Quaternary science and geocryology. Periglacial geomorphology is concerned with non-glacial cold-climate landforms in areas with and without permafrost.\nAlbeit the definition of what a periglacial zone is not clear-cut a conservative estimate is that a quarter of Earth's land surface has periglacial conditions. Beyond this quarter an additional quarter or fifth or Earth's land surface had periglacial conditions at some time during the Pleistocene. In periglacial geomorphology noted researchers include Johan Gunnar Andersson, Walery Łoziński, Anders Rapp and Jean Tricart.\n\nIf the tropics is defined as the area between 35° N and 35° S, then about 60% of Earth's surface lies within this zone. During most of the 20th century tropical geomorphology was neglected due to a bias towards temperate climates, and when dealt with it was highlighted as \"exotic\". Tropical geomorphology do mainly differ from other areas in the intensities and rates at which surface processes operate, and not by the type of processes. The tropics are characterized by particular climates, that may be dry or humid. Relative to temperate zones the tropics contain areas of high temperatures, high rainfall intensities and high evapotranspiration all of which are climatic features relevant for surface processes. Another characteristic, that is not related to present-day climate per see, is that a large portion of the tropics have a low relief which was inherited from the continent of Gondwana. Julius Büdel, Pierre Birot and Jean Tricart have suggested that tropical rivers are dominated by fine-grained suspended load derived from advanced chemical weathering, and this would make them less erosive than rivers elsewhere. Some landforms previously thought as typically tropical like bornhardts are more related to lithology and rock structure than climate.\n\nClimatic geomorphologists have devised various schemes that divide Earth's surface into various morphoclimatic zones; that is, zones where landforms are associated to present or past climates. However, only some processes and landforms can be associated with particular climates, meaning that they are \"zonal;\" processes and landforms not associated with particular climates are labelled \"azonal\". Despite this, azonal processes and landforms might still take on particular characteristics when developing under the influence of particular climates. When identified, morphoclimatic zones do usually lack sharp boundaries and tend to grade from one type to another resulting in that only the core of the zone has all expected attributes. Influential morphoclimatic zoning schemes are those of Julius Büdel (1948, 1963, 1977) and of Jean Tricart and André Cailleux (1965). Büdel's schemes stresses planation and valley-cutting in relation to climate, arguing the valley-cutting is dominant in subpolar regions while planation is so in the tropics. As such this scheme is concerned not only with processes but also with end-products of geomorphic activity. The scheme of Tricart and Cailleux emphasizes the relationship between geomorphology, climate and vegetation. An early attempt at morphoclimatic zoning is that of Albrecht Penck in 1910, who divided Earth in three zones depending on the evaporation-precipitation ratios. \n\nA 1994 review argues that only the concepts of desert, glacial, periglacial and a few coastal morphoclimatic zones are justified. These zones amounts to about half of Earth's land surface, the remaining half cannot be explained in simple terms by climate-landform interactions. The limitations of morphoclimatic zoning were already discussed by Siegfried Passarge in 1926 who considered vegetation and the extent of weathered material as having more direct impact than climate in many parts of the World. According to M.A. Summerfield large-scale zoning of the relief of Earth's surface is better explained on the basis of plate tectonics than on climate. An example of this are the Scandinavian Mountains whose plateau areas and valleys relate to the history of uplift and not to climate.\n\nPiotr Migoń has questioned the validity of certain morphoclimatic zonation schemes since they are named after processes, like planation, that might not occurring at all in large swathes of the zone. Referring to the 1977 scheme of Büdel Migoń states: \nIs it really helpful to have the Volcanic Cordillera of Mexico, coastal ranges of southeast Brazil, plains of East Africa, the escarpments of Western Ghats and the mountains of Taiwan in the same zone, labelled as the ‘peritropical zone of excessive planation’?\n\nDuring the age of New Imperialism in the late 19th century European explorers and scientists traveled across the globe bringing descriptions of landscapes and landforms. As geographical knowledge increased over time these observations were systematized in a search for regional patterns. Climate emerged thus as prime factor for explaining landform distribution at a grand scale. The rise of climatic geomorphology was foreshadowed by the work of Wladimir Köppen, Vasily Dokuchaev and Andreas Schimper. William Morris Davis, the leading geomorphologist of his time, recognized the role of climate by complementing his \"normal\" temperate climate cycle of erosion with arid and glacial ones. Nevertheless, interest in climatic geomorphology was also a reaction \"against\" Davisian geomorphology that was by the mid-20th century considered both un-innovative and dubious. Early climatic geomorphology developed primarily in continental Europe while in the English-speaking world the tendency was not explicit until L.C. Peltier's 1950 publication on a periglacial cycle of erosion.\n\nClimatic geomorphology was criticized in a 1969 review article by process geomorphologist D.R. Stoddart. The criticism by Stoddart proved \"devastating\" sparking a decline in the popularity of climatic geomorphology in the late 20th century. Stoddart criticized climatic geomorphology for applying supposedly \"trivial\" methodologies in establishing landform differences between morphoclimatic zones, being linked to Davisian geomorphology and by allegedly neglecting the fact that physical laws governing processes are the same across the globe. In addition some conceptions of climatic geomorphology, like that which holds that chemical weathering is more rapid in tropical climates than in cold climates proved to not be straightforwardly true.\n\nDespite having diminished in importance, climatic geomorphology continues to exist as a field of study producing relevant research. More recently, concerns over global warming have led to a renewed interest in the field.\n\n"}
{"id": "31931228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31931228", "title": "Czech Republic–Slovakia football rivalry", "text": "Czech Republic–Slovakia football rivalry\n\nThe Czech Republic–Slovakia football rivalry is a highly competitive sports rivalry exists between the national football teams of the two countries, as well as their respective sets of fans. Games between the two teams, even those that are only friendly matches, are often marked by notable and sometimes controversial incidents. These matches are also called \"Federal derby.\"\n\nThe Czechoslovakia national football team was the national association football team of Czechoslovakia from 1922 to 1993. At the dissolution of Czechoslovakia at the end of 1992, the team was participating in UEFA qualifying Group 4 for the 1994 World Cup; it completed this campaign under the name Representation of Czechs and Slovaks (RCS). The Czech Republic national football team is recognised by FIFA and UEFA as the successor of the Czechoslovakia team.\n\nThe Czechoslovakia team was controlled by the Czechoslovak Football Association. The team had two runner-up finishes in World Cups (1934, 1962) and a European Championship win in 1976. Czechoslovakia qualified for the final stages of the 1990 World Cup and shortly afterwards their national coach Jozef Venglos moved to England to become Aston Villa manager.\n\n"}
{"id": "4162375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4162375", "title": "Derek Gregory", "text": "Derek Gregory\n\nDerek Gregory Ph.D. (Cantab) FBA, FRSC (born 1 March 1951) is a British academic and world-renowned geographer who is currently Peter Wall Distinguished Professor and Professor of Geography at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver. He formerly held positions at the University of Cambridge.\n\nGregory is best known for his book \"\", published in 2004. This book discusses the actions of Israel, the United States and the United Kingdom in the Middle East after 9/11. It reflects how the popular discourses found in the media and in political circles indicate a continued Orientalism and colonialism. It also draws on the work of political theorist Giorgio Agamben and in particular his theory of the 'state of exception'.\n\nEarlier works by Gregory have concentrated on political, cultural and historical geography. He has also contributed to theoretical writing on Imagined geographies and David Harvey. A book published in 1994, \"Geographical Imaginations\", explores the relations between social theory and place, space and landscape.\n\nHe graduated from the University of Cambridge with a Master of Arts and a Doctor of Philosophy in 1981. He has honorary doctorates from the University of Heidelberg and Roskilde University, and he was awarded the Founder's Medal of the Royal Geographical Society in 2006. His current research is on late modern war and on the cultural/political histories and geographies of bombing.\n\nHe blogs at www.geographicalimaginations.com\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37326568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37326568", "title": "Detachment (territory)", "text": "Detachment (territory)\n\nDetachment (Old French \"de\", from, and \"[at]tach\", joining with a stake) under international law is the \"formal\", permanent separation of and loss of sovereignty over some territory to another geo-political entity (either adjacent or non-contiguous). After World War I Alsace and Lorraine were a formal detachment from Germany. More often detachment occurs as a process within a country, for example the creation of the Federal District of Columbia resulted from a detachment of territory from the State of Maryland. The removal of territory from a city or special district is a detachment. Within a country detachment is governed by the laws of the supervening entity. Detachment can be considered the opposite or reverse of annexation.\n\nThe formal detachment of Egypt from the Turkish Empire was a condition for British investment in the Suez Canal.\n\nFollowing World War I, a number of colonial territories and border territories were detached from Germany, as well as portions of the Austrian-Hungarian Empire and Ottoman Empire being detached. Some of these detachments were incorporated directly into new countries, such as Yugoslavia, or annexed by existing countries such as Northern Schleswig into Denmark. But some, particularly in the Middle East and those of the German colonies, were placed under the \"protection\" of one or another of the Allied countries who won the war, including Germany's concessions in China, Kiautschou and Chefoo. From a rule of law standpoint these protectorates were not war \"booty\", but \"mandates\" from a legally constituted international body, so detachment occurred without annexation. \n"}
{"id": "9224860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9224860", "title": "Djurgårdsbrunnsviken", "text": "Djurgårdsbrunnsviken\n\nDjurgårdsbrunnsviken is a bay in central Stockholm, Sweden, together with the canal Djurgårdsbrunnskanalen forming the northern shore line of the island Djurgården (or more correctly between Northern and Southern Djurgården). The bridge Djurgårdsbron stretches over the bay.\n\n\nHistorically known as a good fishing ground, Djurgårdsbrunnsviken, also known as the Bay of Sweden, is today popular for bathing in summer. The bay was used for the diving, swimming (including the part for the modern pentathlon event), water polo and rowing competitions during the 1912 Summer Olympics, and during the Swedish championship 1930.\n\nOn the north shore of the bay are a great number of embassies and several museums, including The National Maritime Museum (\"Sjöhistoriska museet\"), the Ethnographical Museum (\"Etnografiska museet\"), and the Technical Museum (\"Tekniska museet\"). On the south shore are the open-air museum Skansen, the Rosendal Palace (\"Rosendals slott\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55470473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55470473", "title": "Donji Nikšić", "text": "Donji Nikšić\n\nDonji Nikšić is a village in Croatia, under the Slunj township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "16654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16654", "title": "Geography of Kenya", "text": "Geography of Kenya\n\nThe geography of Kenya is diverse, varying amongst Kenya's 47 Counties. Kenya has a coastline on the Indian Ocean, which contains swamps of East African mangroves. Inland are broad plains and numerous hills.\n\nCentral and Western Kenya is characterised by the Kenyan Rift Valley and central province home to the highest mountain, Mount Kenya and Mount Elgon on the border between Kenya and Uganda. The Kakamega Forest in western Kenya is a relic of an East African rainforest. Much bigger is Mau Forest, the largest forest complex in East Africa.\n\n\nCentral Karachi, two kilometres from the Laalu Khet 4 Number\n\n\n\n\n\nMuch of the western two-thirds of the country consists of the Pliocene–Pleistocene volcanics deposited on Precambrian basement rocks. The southeast corner of the country is underlain by sediments of the Karoo System of Permian to Late Triassic age and a strip of Jurassic age sediments along the coast in the Mombasa area. The Anza trough is a NW–SE trending Jurassic rift extending from the Indian Ocean coast to the Sudan northwest of Lake Turkana. The Anza Rift resulted from the break–up of Gondwana.\n\nThe climate of Kenya varies by location, from mostly cool every day, to always warm/hot. The climate along the coast is tropical. This means rainfall and temperatures are higher throughout the year. At the coastal cities, Mombasa, Lamu and Malindi, the air changes from cool to hot, almost every day. (\"See chart below\").\n\nThe further inside Kenya, the more arid the climate becomes. An arid climate is nearly devoid of rainfall, and temperature swings widely according to the general time of the day/night. For many areas of Kenya, the daytime temperature rises about 12 °C (corresponding to a rise of about 22 °F), almost every day.\n\nElevation is the major factor in temperature levels, with the higher areas, on average, as 11 °C (20 °F) cooler, day or night. The many cities over a kilometre in elevation have temperature swings from roughly . Nairobi, at , ranges from , and Kitale, at , ranges from . At night, heavy clothes or blankets are needed, in the highlands, when the temperature drops to about every night.\n\nAt lower altitudes, the increased temperature is like day and night, literally: like starting the morning at the highland daytime high, and then adding the heat of the day, again. Hence, the overnight low temperatures near sea level are nearly the same as the high temperatures of the elevated Kenyan highlands. However, locations along the Indian Ocean have more moderate temperatures, as a few degrees cooler in the daytime, such as at Mombasa (\"see chart below\").\n\nThere are slight seasonal variations in temperature, of , cooler in the winter months. Although Kenya is centred at the equator, it shares the seasons of the southern hemisphere: with the warmest summer months in December–March and the coolest winter months in June–August, again with differences in temperature varying by location within the country.\n\nOn the high mountains, such as Mount Kenya, Mount Elgon and Kilimanjaro, the weather can become bitterly cold for most of the year. Some snowfall occurs on the highest mountains.\n\nKenya's terrain is composed of low plains that rise into central highlands that are, in turn, bisected by the Great Rift Valley. There is also a fertile plateau in the west of the country.\n\nThe lowest point on Kenya is at sea level on the Indian Ocean. The highest point on Kenya is 5,197 meters above sea level at Mount Kenya.\n\nThe three main rivers are the Galana and the Tana and The Nzoia River which is a Kenyan river, rising from Mount Elgon. It flows south and then west, eventually flowing into Lake Victoria near the town of Port Victoria. However, the Ewaso Ng'iro is an important river, supplying water from Mt. Kenya to the eastern and north-eastern part of Kenya.\n\nNatural resources that are found in Kenya include: limestone, soda ash, salt, gemstones, fluorspar, zinc, diatomite, oil, gas, gypsum, wildlife and hydropower.\n\n9.8% of the land is arable; permanent crops occupy 0.9% of the land, permanent pasture occupy 37.4% of the land; forest occupies 6.1% of the land. Other uses make up the rest of Kenya's land. This is as of 2011.\n\n1032 km of Kenyan land was irrigated in 2003.\n\n30.7 km (2011)\n\n\nNatural hazards include recurring drought and flooding during the rainy seasons.\n\nThere is limited volcanic activity in the country. Barrier Volcano (elev. 1,032 m) last erupted in 1921. Several others have been historically active (see List of volcanoes in Kenya).\n\nCurrent issues that threaten the environment at the moment include water pollution from urban and industrial wastes; degradation of water quality from the increased use of pesticides and fertilisers; deforestation; water hyacinth infestation in Lake Victoria; soil erosion; desertification; and poaching.\n\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Kenya, the points that are further north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6545069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6545069", "title": "Geography of North America", "text": "Geography of North America\n\nNorth America is the third largest continent, and is also a portion of the second largest supercontinent if North and South America are combined into the Americas and Africa, Europe, and Asia are considered to be part of one supercontinent called Afro-Eurasia.\n\nWith an estimated population of 460 million and an area of 24,346,000 km² (9,400,000 mi²), the northernmost of the two continents of the Western Hemisphere is bounded by the Pacific Ocean on the west; the Atlantic Ocean on the east; the Caribbean Sea, Atlantic and Pacific oceans, and South America on the south; and the Arctic Ocean on the north.\n\nThe northern half of North America is sparsely populated and covered mostly by Canada, except for the northeastern portion, which is occupied by Greenland, and the northwestern portion, which is occupied by Alaska, the largest state of the U.S. The central and southern portions of the continent are represented by the United States, Mexico, and numerous smaller states primarily in Central America and in the Caribbean.\n\nThe continent is delimited on the southeast by most geographers at the Darién watershed along the Colombia-Panama border, placing all of Panama within North America. Alternatively, a less common view would end North America at the man-made Panama Canal. Islands generally associated with North America include Greenland, the world's largest island, and archipelagos and islands in the Caribbean. The terminology of the Americas is complex, but \"Anglo-America\" can describe Canada and the U.S., while \"Latin America\" comprises Mexico and the countries of Central America and the Caribbean, as well as the entire continent of South America.\n\nNatural features of North America include the northern portion of the American Cordillera, represented by the geologically new Rocky Mountains in the west; and the considerably older Appalachian Mountains to the east. The north hosts an abundance of glacial lakes formed during the last glacial period, including the Great Lakes. North America's major continental divide is the Great Divide, which runs north and south down through Rocky Mountains. The major watersheds all drain to the east: The Mississippi/Missouri and Rio Grande into the Gulf of Mexico, and St. Lawrence into the Atlantic.\n\nClimate is determined to a large extent by the latitude, ranging from Arctic cold in the north to tropical heat in the south. The western half of North America tends to have milder and wetter climate than other areas with equivalent latitude, although there are steppes (known as \"prairies\") in the central and western portions, and deserts in the Southwestern United States of Arizona, Colorado, California, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, Oklahoma, and Texas; along with the Mexican states of Baja California, Baja California Sur, Sonora, Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo Leon and Tamaulipas.\nSeventy percent of North America is underlain by the Laurentia craton, which is exposed as the Canadian Shield in much of central and eastern Canada around the Hudson Bay, and as far south as the U.S. states of Michigan, Wisconsin, and Minnesota. The continental crust started to form 4 billion years ago (Ga), and six of the microcontinents collided to form the craton about 2 Ga. This core has been enlarged by plate tectonics, most notably between 1.8 and 1.65 Ga when a piece currently stretching from Arizona to Missouri fused with the south and west portion of the craton. The craton started to rift about 1.1 Ga, and the fissure (now the Midcontinent Rift System) ran between Kansas and Lake Superior before stopping, perhaps due to the Grenville collision in the east. Otherwise the craton has remained relatively stable, with some rocks dating from 2.5 to 4 Ga, including what may be the world's oldest known rock: Specimens from the Nuvvuagittuq greenstone belt on the coast of the Hudson Bay have been dated to 4.38 Ga, though the dating methods are disputed. Periodic flooding by inland seas, most recently the Western Interior Seaway during the Cretaceous, caused the layer of sedimentary rock over the remainder of the craton. The Laurentia craton is the center of the Proterozoic supercontinent Rodinia in most models, and was also part of the later Laurussia, Pangea, and Laurasia supercontinents.\n\nRoughly 3 million years ago (Ma), the volcanic Isthmus of Panama formed between the North and South American continents creating a bridge over what was the Central American Seaway and allowing the migration of flora and fauna between the two landmasses in the Great American Interchange. Starting 2.58 Ma, the Quaternary glaciation covered much of the continent with ice, centered west of Hudson Bay, the floor of which is slowly rebounding after being depressed by the great weight of the ice. Glaciers descended the slopes of the Rocky Mountains and those of the Pacific Margin. Extensive glacial lakes, such as Glacial Lake Missoula, Bonneville, Lahontan, Agassiz, and Algonquin, formed by glacial melt water. \"Remnants of them are still visible in the Great Basin and along the edge of the Canadian Shield in the form of the Great Salt Lake, the Great Lakes, and the large lakes of west central Canada.\" The last glacial period of the current ice age caused a lowering of the sea level, exposing the Bering Land Bridge between Alaska and Siberia, which resulted in human migration from Asia to the Americas between 40,000 and 15,000 years ago.\n\nNorth America may be divided into at least five major physiographic regions:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Coastal Plain and the main belts of the North American Cordillera continue in the south in Mexico (where the Mexican Plateau, bordered by the Sierra Madre Oriental and the Sierra Madre Occidental, is considered a continuation of the intermontane system) to connect the Transverse Volcanic Range, a zone of high and active volcanic peaks south of Mexico City.\n\nThe vast majority of North America is located on the North American Plate, centered on the Laurentia craton. Parts of California and western Mexico form the partial edge of the Pacific Plate; the two plates meet along the San Andreas Fault. The southern portion of the Caribbean and parts of Central America compose the much smaller Caribbean Plate.\n\nThe western mountains have split in the middle, into the main range of the Rockies and the Coast Ranges in California, Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia with the Great Basin (a lower area containing smaller ranges and low-lying deserts) in between. The highest peak is Mount McKinley/Denali in Alaska. The geographic center of North America is approximately \"6 miles west of Balta, Pierce County, North Dakota\" at 48⁰ 10′north, 100⁰ 10′west, and a 15-foot (4.5 m) field stone obelisk in Rugby, North Dakota (~15 miles or 25 km away) claims to mark the center.\n\nThree countries (Canada, the United States, and Mexico) make up most of North America's land mass; they share the continent with 34 other island countries in the Caribbean and south of Mexico.\n\nThe Great Plains is the broad expanse of prairie and steppe which lies east of the Rocky Mountains in the United States and Canada. The narrow plains in the Mexican coast and the savannas of the Mississippi are analogous to, respectively, the Patagonian steppes and the pampas of the Piranha, Paraguay, and Rio de la Plata. Thus the Appalachians and the mountain chains of Brazil are regarded as creating similar interruptions to the plains community.\n\nNorth America extends to within 10° of latitude of both the equator and the North Pole. It embraces every climatic zone, from tropical rain forest and savanna on the lowlands of Central America to areas of permanent ice cap in central Greenland. Subarctic and tundra climates prevail in north Canada and north Alaska, and desert and semiarid conditions are found in interior regions cut off by high mountains from rain-bearing westerly winds. However, most of the continent has temperate climates very favorable to settlement and agriculture. Prairies, or vast grasslands cover a huge amount in mountain ranges.\n\nThe average rainfall in North America is 76 cm/year, which produces some 18 petaliters of water.\n\nNorth American rivers include:\n\n\nThe Sierra Nevada and Cascade mountain ranges run along the entire Pacific Coast, acting as a barrier to the humid winds that sweep in from the ocean. The rising topography forces this air upwards, causing moisture to condense and fall in the form of rain on the western slopes of the mountains, with some areas receiving more than of rainfall per year. As a result, the air has lost much of its moisture and becomes hot and dry when it reaches the areas east of the coastal mountain ranges. These arid conditions are, in some instances, exacerbated in regions of extremely low altitude (some near or below sea level) by higher air pressure, resulting in drier conditions and adiabatic heating effects, some of these pocket deserts exist in valleys well north of the Canada–US border in interior British Columbia. What precipitation does fall generally does not last long, lost primarily to evaporation, as well as rapid runoff and efficient water uptake and storage by native vegetation.\n\nThere are various plant life distributions in North America. Plant life in the Arctic includes grasses, mosses, and Arctic willows. Coniferous trees, including spruces, pines, hemlocks, and firs, are indigenous to the Canadian and Western U.S. mountain ranges as far south as San Francisco. Among these are giant sequoias, redwoods, great firs, and sugar pines. Sugar pines are generally confined to the northwestern area of the United States.\nThe central region of the country has hardwoods. Southern states grow extensive yellow pines. In addition, mahogany, logwood, and lignumvitae - all tropical in nature - are grown. The southwest has desert plants, including yucci and cacti. The cultivated native plants of North America are tobacco, maize, potato, vanilla, melons, cacao, gourds, indigo plant, and bean.\n\nNorth America is home to many native mammal species. Several species of deer, including elk, caribou, moose, mule deer, and the abundant white-tailed deer are found throughout various regions, along with the bison and musk ox in the central and northern plains, respectively. Three species of bear, several subspecies of wolf, and various other carnivores such as raccoons, skunks, and cats including cougars and lynxes are widely distributed. The family Mustelidae is well represented, including badgers, otters, ferrets, and wolverines. Numerous species of squirrels and other rodents, such as beavers and muskrats, can be found in virtually every region of the continent. Central America has adapted sloths, anteaters, and armadillos. Other animals includes the condor, among the heights of the Andes, the parrots and the monkeys of Tropical forests, the humming bird, rattlesnake, alligator, and Cayman of the banks of the streams, and swarms of mosquitoes on the wide plains.\n\nThe mining and petroleum industries are important in Canada, the United States and Mexico. These natural resources make the region one of the richest on the earth.\n\nThe Rocky Mountain region is known for vast resources and rich mineral deposits including copper, lead, gold, silver, tungsten, uranium, and zinc. Coal, petroleum and natural gas are mineral fuels found. Old mine tailings are present in the Rocky Mountain landscape.\n\nAgriculture and forestry are two major industries. Agriculture includes arid land and irrigated farming and livestock grazing. Livestock are often moved between high-elevation summer pastures and low-elevation and winter pastures.\n\n\nMap and aerial photos\n"}
{"id": "58945283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58945283", "title": "Geology of Saudi Arabia", "text": "Geology of Saudi Arabia\n\nThe geology of Saudi Arabia includes Precambrian igneous and metamorphic basement rocks exposed across much of the country. Thick sedimentary sequences from the Phanerozoic including sandstone, anhydrite, dolomite, limestone, chert and marl dominate much of the country's surface and host oil. \n\nSaudi Arabia is underlain by the Precambrian igneous and metamorphic rocks of the Proterozoic Arabian Craton. Up to 5.5 kilometers of sedimentary rocks from the Cambrian through the Pliocene accumulated on the shield, including many oil bearing units. \n\nWithin these younger rocks, a large western facing escarpment formed in central Saudi Arabia, capped with limestone. Basement rock dips away from the escarpment with thicker sediments in the Rub al Khali and the Persian Gulf region. {\n\nTwo kilometers of Paleozoic rocks are exposed in the northwest, with lowest 600 meters of correlated with the Cambrian in Jordan. The top 300 meters is limestone although most units from the Ordovician, Silurian and Devonian are terrestrial sandstone or shale. \n\nThe Triassic begins with the Khuff Formation shallow water limestone and ascends through 500 meters of Jurassic shelf limestone and marine shale, overlain by fossil-rich rocks from the late Jurassic and early Cretaceous. Jurassic rocks form much of the escarpment in central Saudi Arabia, although discontinuous sedimentation led to the deposition of calcarenite and anhydrite. The alternating layers of the Arab Formation took shape during the time and holds extensive oil and gas resources. The Kimmeridgian age Jubaila Limestone contains the high productivity Arab-D member in the Ghawar oil field and a 1.1 kilometer sequence of aphanitic and calcarenite limestone. It often weathers to prominent scarps without talus. \n\nFor the most part, Middle Cretaceous rocks include thick sandstone, although some marine rocks are present to the north and Jordan. A combined sequence of 500 meters of limestone and dolomite spans the Cretaceous into the Paleogene. \n\nThe Umm er Rhaduma Formation, named by S.B. Henry and C.W. Brown in 1935 is the oldest Cenozoic sedimentary unit in Saudi Arabia, from the Paleocene to the early Eocene. It is visible in the walls of Wadi al Batin and overlies the dolomite and limestone of the Aruma Formation. The formation spans 1200 kilometers from Wadi Jabaliyah to the Iraq-Saudi Arabia border. Karst commonly forms in the uplands along with river channels. Northwest of Al Batin, the rock has very poor internal drainage. Drilling revealed two monocline structures were related to the dissolution and collapse of anhydrite layers. Dolomite, limestone and chert with some fossiliferous units are particularly common. Dissolved hydrogen gas renders water from the unit poor quality near Ras Tenura, Abqaiq and Nariya. Saudi Aramco developed the unit to supply water to its outlying operations. \n\nThe unit formation is overlain by the early Eocene Rus Formation, named for Umm ar Ru'us. Originally known as the Chalky Zone, it was renamed in 1946. It occurs only a few places, extending 180 kilometers north of Wadi as Sahba and occupying the breached center of the Dammam Dome. Chalk and limestone ascend to gypsum-bearing and calcareous shale. Coastal Saudi Arabia was only submerged briefly in the Cenozoic, limiting marine deposition, although the few Miocene and Pliocene marine rock are divided into the Dam, Hofuf and Hadrukh formations. \n\nThe early and middle Eocene Damman Formation is named for the Dammam Dome and includes basal marl, limestone and dolomite as well as the Saila Shale Member. It is exposed above the Umm er Rhaduma but largely overlapped by Miocene and Pliocene sediments and occurs in larger areas near the border with Qatar and in a five kilometer wide, 180 kilometer long belt from Wadi as Sahba. The marl, limestone and shale units taken together do store groundwater and communities in the Eastern Province often draw on the Alat aquifer in the Khobar Member. \n\nGroundwater conditions vary widely within Cenozoic units. Al Hasa and Al Qatif are examples of oases, fed by artesian wells. Al Fufuf has a well-developed Miocene-Pliocene aquifer, likely fed in part by an underlying Eocene aquifer. Neogene groundwater supplies other scattered locations in the Eastern Province. Paleogene gravels form patches in the Wadi Nayyal and Wadi as Sahba. The round quartz pebbles can reach 10 centimeters in diameter, often accompanied by limestone pebbles. In the past, a river may have crossed the Al Aramah escarpment via the Wadi as Sahba structural trench. At the northwest edge of Harrat Hutaym are marl, sandstone and basal conglomerate deposits with ostracode fossils from a freshwater environment, inferred to be from the Pliocene. Small, similar deposits are scattered across the Rub al Khali. \n\nThe Al Harrah volcanic complex is the only eruptive feature in the sediment-covered areas of Saudi Arabia. Its olivine basalt and aplite dikes formed during the Miocene, Pliocene and early Quaternary, spanning 250 kilometers to the northwest from Ath Thayat into Jordan. In the northwest, duricrust carapace is particularly common on Paleozoic and Mesozoic units due to greater moisture. \n\nIn the last 2.5 million years of the Quaternary, limestone-quartz terrace gravel deposited in Wadi al Batin, , occurring 60 to 90 kilometers north of the Trans-Arabian Pipeline. Sheet gravel blankets the Ad Dibdibah Plain, with quartz, carbonate and metamorphic rock grains spanning into Iraq and Kuwait. Al Harrah lava field basalt pebbles make up most of the gravel in the As Sahn Plain. Deltaic sheet gravels are also common in Wadi as Sahba-Wadi and Dawasir-Wadi Najran. In the Al Aramah and Hit escarpment are dissected, older limestone gravels. An Nafud and Ar Rub al Khali have silt, gravel, sabkha, unconsolidated sands and coral limestone from the geologically recent past. Half of Saudi Arabia with sedimentary cover is blanketed in eolian sands, covering an area of 600,000 square kilometers. Lake beds outcrop in the Rub al Khali while marine terraces are common along the Persian Gulf. \n"}
{"id": "5763249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5763249", "title": "Global Scenario Group", "text": "Global Scenario Group\n\nThe Global Scenario Group (GSG) was an international, interdisciplinary body convened in 1995 by the Tellus Institute and the Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI) to develop scenarios for world development in the twenty-first century. Further development of the Great Transition scenarios has been carried on by the Great Transition Initiative (GTI). \n\nThe GSG's underlying scenario development work was rooted in the long-range integrated scenario analysis that Tellus Institute and Stockholm Environment Institute had undertaken through the PoleStar Project and its PoleStar System. Initially conceived in 1991 as a tool for integrated sustainability planning and long-range scenario analysis, the PoleStar System was inspired by the 1987 Brundtland Commission report \"Our Common Future\", which first put the concept of sustainable development on the international agenda.\n\nThe work of the Global Scenario Group was widely adopted in high-level intergovernmental settings. The scenarios informed numerous international assessments, including the World Water Council's World Water Vision report in 1999–2000, the OECD Environmental Outlook in 2001, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's greenhouse gas emission mitigation assessment in 2001, the United Nations Environment Programme's Third GEO Report in 2002, and the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment in 2005. \n\nSeveral of the GSG participants who actively participated in the IPCC assessments have been recognized for contributing to the 2007 award of the Nobel Peace Prize to the IPCC.\n\nIn 2002, the GSG formally summarized their scenario approach in an essay called \"Great Transition: The Promise and Lure of the Times Ahead\". The essay argues that history has entered a qualitatively new era of high global interdependence, which they refer to as the planetary phase of civilization. Some kind of global society will take shape in this century, but its form remains deeply uncertain and highly contested. Three classes of scenarios are discussed – Conventional Worlds, Barbarization, and Great Transitions.\n\nConventional Worlds scenarios envision a future which unfolds without major surprises and with essential continuity with current trends, driving forces, and dominant values. \"Market Forces\" versions rely heavily on free markets that generate sufficient and timely technological evolution to address emerging environmental and social challenges. \"Policy Reform\" versions assume instead that governments mobilize to mount a coordinated, sustained, and effective regime of policy adjustments to mitigate environmental disasters and social destabilization.\n\nBarbarization scenarios depict futures in which the market and policy adjustments of Conventional Worlds are inadequate to address such problems as climate change and social polarization, leading to a devolution of civilized norms. In \"Fortress World\" variants, powerful global actors respond to impending collapse by mounting an authoritarian intervention to stem environmental degradation and social conflict. International elites retreat to protected enclaves, where they manage remaining natural resources and protect their interests. Outside these enclaves, the remainder of civilization endures poverty and degradation. \"Breakdown\" variants would ensue if the elite are unable to form a coherent, adequate response to the mounting crisis. The world descends into conflict and degradation, as institutions collapse.\n\nGreat Transition scenarios go beyond the market and policy adjustments of Conventional Worlds to envision a fundamental shift in institutions and values. The growth imperative of Conventional Worlds economies give way to steady state economies, the tendency toward inequality is countered by egalitarian social policies, and human values turn toward solidarity, well-being, and ecology, rather than individualism, consumerism, and domination of nature. The potential of a Great Transition is linked to the emergence of a global citizens movement to advocate for new values to underpin global society.\n\n\"Eco-communalism\" variants are characterized by extreme localism, while the \"New Sustainability Paradigm\" alternative welcomes cosmopolitanism and global governance in a plural world. In all versions, civilization has a far smaller ecological footprint, societies are more equitable, and citizens have more leisure time to pursue fulfilling activities. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6901456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6901456", "title": "Gpsd", "text": "Gpsd\n\ngpsd is a daemon that receives data from a GPS receiver, and provides the data back to multiple applications such as Kismet or GPS navigation software. \nIt thus provides a unified interface to receivers of different types, and allows concurrent access by multiple applications.\n\nIt is commonly used on Linux and FreeBSD systems. Distributed under the 3-clause BSD license, gpsd is free software.\n\ngpsd provides a TCP/IP service by binding to port 2947. It accepts commands from that socket, and returns results back to it. These commands use a JSON-based syntax and return JSON responses (older, now obsolete versions used single-letter commands). Multiple clients can use gpsd's service in parallel, thus allowing multiple applications to use the data in parallel.\n\nMost GPS receivers are supported, whether serial, USB, or Bluetooth. Starting in 2009, GPSD supports AIS receivers as well. Additionally gpsd supports interfacing with the UNIX network time protocol daemon ntpd via shared memory to enable setting the host platform's time via the GPS clock.\n\ngpsd was originally written by Remco Treffkorn with Derrick Brashear, then maintained by Russell Nelson. It is now maintained by Eric S. Raymond.\n"}
{"id": "6084894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6084894", "title": "Human settlement", "text": "Human settlement\n\nIn geography, statistics and archaeology, a settlement, locality or populated place is a community in which people live. The complexity of a settlement can range from a small number of dwellings grouped together to the largest of cities with surrounding urbanized areas. Settlements may include hamlets, villages, towns and cities. A settlement may have known historical properties such as the date or era in which it was first settled, or first settled by particular people.\n\nIn the field of geospatial predictive modeling, settlements are \"a city, town, village or other agglomeration of buildings where people live and work\".\n\nA settlement conventionally includes its constructed facilities such as roads, enclosures, field systems, boundary banks and ditches, ponds, parks and woods, wind and water mills, manor houses, moats and churches.\n\nThe oldest remains that have been found of constructed dwellings are remains of huts that were made of mud and branches around 17,000 BC at the Ohalo site (now underwater) near the edge of the Sea of Galilee. The Natufians built houses, also in the Levant, around 10,000 BC. Remains of settlements such as villages become much more common after the invention of agriculture.\n\nLandscape history studies the form (morphology) of settlements – for example whether they are dispersed or nucleated. Urban morphology can thus be considered a special type of cultural-historical landscape studies. Settlements can be ordered by size, centrality or other factors to define a settlement hierarchy.\n\nGeoscience Australia defines a populated place as \"a named settlement with a population of 200 or more persons\".\n\nThe Committee for Geographical Names in Australasia used the term localities for rural areas, while the Australian Bureau of Statistics uses the term \"urban centres/localities\" for urban areas.\n\nThe Agency for Statistics in Bosnia and Herzegovina uses the term \"populated place\" for rural, and \"municipality\" and \"town\" for urban areas.\n\nThe Bulgarian Government publishes a National Register of Populated places (NRPP).\n\nThe Canadian government uses the term \"populated place\" in the \"Atlas of Canada\", but does not define it.\nStatistics Canada uses the term localities for historical named locations.\n\nThe Croatian Bureau of Statistics records population in units called settlements (\"naselja\").\n\nThe Census Commission of India has a special definition of census towns.\n\nThe Central Statistics Office of the Republic of Ireland has a special definition of census towns.\n\nThere are various types of inhabited localities in Russia.\n\nStatistics Sweden uses the term localities (\"tätort\") for various densely populated places. The common English-language translation is \"urban areas\".\n\nThe UK Department for Communities and Local Government uses the term \"urban settlement\" to denote an urban area when analysing census information. The Registrar General for Scotland defines settlements as groups of one or more contiguous localities, which are determined according to population density and postcode areas. The Scottish settlements are used as one of several factors defining urban areas.\n\nThe United States Geological Survey (USGS) has a Geographic Names Information System that defines three classes of human settlement:\n\nPopulated places may be specifically defined in the context of censuses and be different from general-purpose administrative entities, such as \"place\" as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau or census-designated places.\n\nIn the field of geospatial predictive modeling, settlements are \"a city, town, village, or other agglomeration of buildings where people live and work\".\n\nThe Global Human Settlement Layer (GHSL) framework produces global spatial information about the human presence on the planet over time. This in the form of built up maps, population density maps and settlement maps. This information is generated with evidence-based analytics and knowledge using new spatial data mining technologies. The framework uses heterogeneous data including global archives of fine-scale satellite imagery, census data, and volunteered geographic information. The data is processed fully automatically and generates analytics and knowledge reporting objectively and systematically about the presence of population and built-up infrastructures. The GHSL operates in an open and free data and methods access policy (open input, open method, open output).\n\nThe term \"Abandoned populated places\" is a \"Feature Designation Name\" in databases sourced by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency and GeoNames.\n\nPopulated places can be abandoned. Sometimes the structures are still easily accessible, such as in a ghost town, and these may become tourist attractions. Some places that have the appearance of a ghost town, however, may still be defined as populated places by government entities.\n\nA town may become a ghost town because the economic activity that supported it has failed, because of a government action, such as the building of a dam that floods the town, or because of natural or human-caused disasters such as floods, uncontrolled lawlessness, or war. The term is sometimes used to refer to cities, towns, and neighborhoods that are still populated, but significantly less so than in years past.\n\n"}
{"id": "13431137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13431137", "title": "Indoor positioning system", "text": "Indoor positioning system\n\nAn indoor positioning system (IPS) is a system used to locate objects or people inside a building using lights, radio waves, magnetic fields, acoustic signals, or other sensory information. There are several commercial systems on the market, but there is no standard for an IPS system. \nIndoor positioning systems use different technologies, including distance measurement to nearby anchor nodes (nodes with known fixed positions, e.g. WiFi / LiFi access points or Bluetooth beacons), magnetic positioning, dead reckoning. They either actively locate mobile devices and tags or provide ambient location or environmental context for devices to get sensed.\n\nThe localized nature of an IPS has resulted in design fragmentation, with systems making use of various optical, radio, or even acoustic\ntechnologies.\n\nFor smoothing to compensate for stochastic (unpredictable) errors there must be a sound method for reducing the error budget significantly. The system might include information from other systems to cope for physical ambiguity and to enable error compensation.\n\nDetecting the device's orientation (often referred to as the compass direction in order to disambiguate it from smartphone vertical orientation) can be achieved either by detecting landmarks inside images taken in real time, or by using trilateration with beacons. There also exist technologies for detecting magnetometric information inside buildings or locations with steel structures or in iron ore mines.\n\nDue to the signal attenuation caused by construction materials, the satellite based Global Positioning System (GPS) loses significant power indoors affecting the required coverage for receivers by at least four satellites. In addition, the multiple reflections at surfaces cause multi-path propagation serving for uncontrollable errors. These very same effects are degrading all known solutions for indoor locating which uses electromagnetic waves from indoor transmitters to indoor receivers. A bundle of physical and mathematical methods are applied to compensate for these problems. Promising direction radiofrequency positioning error correction opened by the use of alternative sources of navigational information, such as inertial measurement unit (IMU), monocular camera Simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) and WiFi SLAM. Integration of data from various navigation systems with different physical principles can increase the accuracy and robustness of the overall solution.\n\nGlobal navigation satellite systems (GPS or GNSS) are generally not suitable to establish indoor locations, since microwaves will be attenuated and scattered by roofs, walls and other objects. However, in order to make positioning signals ubiquitous, integration between GPS and indoor positioning can be made.\n\nCurrently, GNSS receivers are becoming more and more sensitive due to increasing microchip processing power. High Sensitivity GNSS receivers are able to receive satellite signals in most indoor environments and attempts to determine the 3D position indoors have been successful. Besides increasing the sensitivity of the receivers, the technique of A-GPS is used, where the almanac and other information are transferred through a mobile phone.\n\nHowever, proper coverage for the required four satellites to locate a receiver is not achieved with all current designs (2008–11) for indoor operations. Beyond, the average error budget for GNSS systems normally is much larger than the confinements, in which the locating shall be performed.\n\nWhile most current IPS are able to detect the location of an object, they are so coarse that they cannot be used to detect the \"orientation\" or \"direction\" of an object.\n\nOne of the methods to thrive for sufficient operational suitability is \"tracking\". Whether a sequence of locations determined form a trajectory from the first to the most actual location. Statistical methods then serve for smoothing the locations determined in a track resembling the physical capabilities of the object to move. This smoothing must be applied, when a target moves and also for a resident target, to compensate erratic measures. Otherwise the single resident location or even the followed trajectory would compose of an itinerant sequence of jumps.\n\nIn most applications the population of targets is larger than just one. Hence the IPS must serve a proper specific identification for each observed target and must be capable to segregate and separate the targets individually within the group. An IPS must be able to identify the entities being tracked, despite the \"non-interesting\" neighbors. Depending on the design, either a sensor network must know from which tag it has received information, or a locating device must be able to identify the targets directly.\n\nNon-radio technologies can be used for positioning without using the existing wireless infrastructure. This can provide increased accuracy at the expense of costly equipment and installations.\n\nMagnetic positioning can offer pedestrians with smartphones an indoor accuracy of 1–2 meters with 90% confidence level, without using the additional wireless infrastructure for positioning. Magnetic positioning is based on the iron inside buildings that create local variations in the Earth's magnetic field. Un-optimized compass chips inside smartphones can sense and record these magnetic variations to map indoor locations.\n\nPedestrian dead reckoning and other approaches for positioning of pedestrians propose an inertial measurement unit carried by the pedestrian either by measuring steps indirectly (step counting) or in a foot mounted approach, sometimes referring to maps or other additional sensors to constrain the inherent sensor drift encountered with inertial navigation. The MEMS inertial sensors suffer from internal noises which result in cubically growing position error with time. To reduce the error growth in such devices a Kalman Filtering based approach is often used.\nHowever, in order to make it capable to build map itself, the SLAM algorithm framework will be used.\nInertial measures generally cover the differentials of motion, hence the location gets determined with integrating and thus requires integration constants to provide results. The actual position estimation can be found as the maximum of a 2-d probability distribution which is recomputed at each step taking into account the noise model of all the sensors involved and the constraints posed by walls and furniture.\nBased on the motions and users' walking behaviors, IPS is able to estimate users' locations by machine learning algorithms.\n\nA visual positioning system can determine the location of a camera-enabled mobile device by decoding location coordinates from visual markers. In such a system, markers are placed at specific locations throughout a venue, each marker encoding that location's coordinates: latitude, longitude and height off the floor. Measuring the visual angle from the device to the marker enables the device to estimate its own location coordinates in reference to the marker. Coordinates include latitude, longitude, level and altitude off the floor.\n\nA collection of successive snapshots from a mobile device's camera can build a database of images that is suitable for estimating location in a venue. Once the database is built, a mobile device moving through the venue can take snapshots that can be interpolated into the venue's database, yielding location coordinates. These coordinates can be used in conjunction with other location techniques for higher accuracy. Note that this can be a special case of sensor fusion where a camera plays the role of yet another sensor.\n\nAny wireless technology can be used for locating. Many different systems take advantage of existing wireless infrastructure for indoor positioning. There are three primary system topology options for hardware and software configuration, network-based, terminal-based, and terminal-assisted. Positioning accuracy can be increased at the expense of wireless infrastructure equipment and installations.\n\nWi-Fi positioning system (WPS) is used where GPS is inadequate. The localization technique used for positioning with wireless access points is based on measuring the intensity of the received signal (\"received signal strength\" in English RSS) and the method of \"fingerprinting\". Typical parameters useful to geolocate the WiFi hotspot or wireless access point include the SSID and the MAC address of the access point. The accuracy depends on the number of positions that have been entered into the database. The possible signal fluctuations that may occur can increase errors and inaccuracies in the path of the user. Anyplace is a free and open-source Wi-Fi positioning system that allows anybody to rapidly map indoor spaces and that won several awards for its location accuracy.\n\nAccording to the Bluetooth Special Interest Group, Bluetooth is all about proximity, not about exact location. Bluetooth was not intended to offer a pinned location like GPS, however is known as a geo-fence or micro-fence solution which makes it an indoor proximity solution, not an indoor positioning solution. Micromapping and indoor mapping has been linked to Bluetooth and to the Bluetooth LE based iBeacon promoted by Apple Inc.. Large-scale indoor positioning system based on iBeacons has been implemented and applied in practice.\n\nBluetooth speaker position and home networks can be used for broad reference\n\nSimple concept of location indexing and presence reporting for tagged objects, uses known sensor identification only. This is usually the case with passive radio-frequency identification (RFID) / NFC systems, which do not report the signal strengths and various distances of single tags or of a bulk of tags and do not renew any before known location coordinates of the sensor or current location of any tags. Operability of such approaches requires some narrow passage to prevent from passing by out of range.\n\nInstead of long range measurement, a dense network of low-range receivers may be arranged, e.g. in a grid pattern for economy, throughout the space being observed. Due to the low range, a tagged entity will be identified by only a few close, networked receivers. An identified tag must be within range of the identifying reader, allowing a rough approximation of the tag location. Advanced systems combine visual coverage with a camera grid with the wireless coverage for the rough location.\n\nMost systems use a continuous physical measurement (such as angle and distance or distance only) along with the identification data in one combined signal. Reach by these sensors mostly covers an entire floor, or an aisle or just a single room. Short reach solutions get applied with multiple sensors and overlapping reach.\n\nAngle of arrival (AoA) is the angle from which a signal arrives at a receiver. AoA is usually determined by measuring the time difference of arrival (TDOA) between multiple antennas in a sensor array. In other receivers, it is determined by an array of highly directional sensors—the angle can be determined by which sensor received the signal. AoA is usually used with triangulation and a known base line to find the location relative to two anchor transmitters.\n\nTime of arrival (ToA, also time of flight) is the amount of time a signal takes to propagate from transmitter to receiver. Because the signal propagation rate is constant and known (ignoring differences in mediums) the travel time of a signal can be used to directly calculate distance. Multiple measurements can be combined with trilateration and multilateration to find a location. This is the technique used by GPS. Systems which use ToA, generally require a complicated synchronization mechanism to maintain a reliable source of time for sensors (though this can be avoided in carefully designed systems by using repeaters to establish coupling).\n\nThe accuracy of the TOA based methods often suffers from massive multipath conditions in indoor localization, which is caused by the reflection and diffraction of the RF signal from objects (e.g., interior wall, doors or furniture) in the environment. However, it is possible to reduce the effect of multipath by applying temporal or spatial sparsity based techniques.\n\nReceived signal strength indication (RSSI) is a measurement of the power level received by sensor. Because radio waves propagate according to the inverse-square law, distance can be approximated based on the relationship between transmitted and received signal strength (the transmission strength is a constant based on the equipment being used), as long as no other errors contribute to faulty results. The inside of buildings is not free space, so accuracy is significantly impacted by reflection and absorption from walls. Non-stationary objects such as doors, furniture, and people can pose an even greater problem, as they can affect the signal strength in dynamic, unpredictable ways.\n\nA lot of systems use enhanced Wi-Fi infrastructure to provide location information. None of these systems serves for proper operation with any infrastructure as is. Unfortunately, Wi-Fi signal strength measurements are extremely noisy, so there is ongoing research focused on making more accurate systems by using statistics to filter out the inaccurate input data. Wi-Fi Positioning Systems are sometimes used outdoors as a supplement to GPS on mobile devices, where only few erratic reflections disturb the results.\n\n\nOnce sensor data has been collected, an IPS tries to determine the location from which the received transmission was most likely collected. The data from a single sensor is generally ambiguous and must be resolved by a series of statistical procedures to combine several sensor input streams.\n\nOne way to determine position is to match the data from the unknown location with a large set of known locations using an algorithm such as k-nearest neighbor. This technique requires a comprehensive on-site survey and will be inaccurate with any significant change in the environment (due to moving persons or moved objects).\n\nLocation will be calculated mathematically by approximating signal propagation and finding angles and / or distance. Inverse trigonometry will then be used to determine location:\nAdvanced systems combine more accurate physical models with statistical procedures:\n\nThe major consumer benefit of indoor positioning is the expansion of location-aware mobile computing indoors. As mobile devices become ubiquitous, contextual awareness for applications has become a priority for developers. Most applications currently rely on GPS, however, and function poorly indoors. Applications benefiting from indoor location include:\n\n"}
{"id": "51477815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51477815", "title": "Jamnica Pisarovinska", "text": "Jamnica Pisarovinska\n\nJamnica Pisarovinska is a village in Croatia. \n"}
{"id": "908242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=908242", "title": "Korean nationalism", "text": "Korean nationalism\n\nKorean nationalism refers to nationalism among the Korean people. In the Korean context, this encompasses various movements throughout history to maintain the Korean cultural identity, history, and ethnicity. Korean nationalism tends to be ethnic and racial in nature, rather than civic.\n\nHistorically, the central objectives of Korea's nationalist movement were the advancement and protection of Korea's ancient culture and national identity from foreign influence, and the fostering of the independence movement during Colonial Korea. In order to obtain political and cultural autonomy, it first had to promote Korea's cultural dependency. For this reason, the nationalist movement demanded the restoration and preservation of Korea's traditional culture. The Donghak (Eastern Learning) peasant movement, also known as the Donghak Peasant Revolution, that began in the 1870s, could be seen as an early form of what would become the Korean nationalist resistance movement against foreign influences. It was succeeded by the Righteous Army movement and later a series of Korean resistance movements that led, in part, to the current status of the two Korean nations.\n\nNationalism in late 19th century Korea was a form of resistance movements, but with significant differences between the north and south. Since the intrusion by foreign powers in the late 19th century, Koreans have had to construct their identity in ways that pitted them against foreigners. They have witnessed and participated in a wide range of nationalist actions over the past century, but all of them have been some form of resistance against foreign influences. During the colonial period, the Korean nationalists carried on the struggle for independence, fighting against Imperial Japan in Korea, China particularly Manchuria and China Proper and Far East Russia. They formed 'governments in exile', armies, and secret groups to fight the imperial Japanese wherever they are.\n\nKorea was divided at the 38th parallel between north and south by the Allied powers in 1945 as part of the disarmament of Imperial Japan, and the division persists to this day. The split is perpetuated by rival regimes, opposing ideologies, and global politics; it is further deepened by a differing sense of national identity derived from the unique histories, polities, class systems, and gender roles experienced by Koreans on different sides of the border. As a result, Korean nationalism in the late 20th century has been permeated by the split between North and South. Each regime espouses its own distinctive form of nationalism, different from the opposing side's, that nonetheless seeks to encompass the entire Korean Peninsula in its scope.\n\nWith regard to Korean nationalism, the reunification of the two Koreas is a highly related issue. Ethnic nationalism that is prevalent in Korean society is likely to play a significant role in the unification process, if it does occur. As Gi-Wook Shin claims, “Ethnic consciousness would not only legitimize the drive for unification but also could be common ground, especially in the early stage of the unification process, that is needed to facilitate a smooth integration of the two systems.”\n\nKorean reunification (Korean: 남북통일) refers to the hypothetical future reunification of North Korea and South Korea under a single government. South Korea had adopted a sunshine policy towards the North that was based on the hope that one day, the two countries would be re-united in the 1990s. The process towards this was started by the historic June 15th North–South Joint Declaration in August 2000, where the two countries agreed to work towards a peaceful reunification in the future. However, there are a number of hurdles in this process due to the large political and economic differences between the two countries and other state actors such as China, Russia, and the United States. Short-term problems such as a large number of refugees from the North migrating into the South and initial economic and political instability would need to be overcome.\n\nIn North Korea, nationalism is incorporated as part of the state-sponsored ideology of \"Juche\". The \"Juche\" Idea teaches that \"man is the master of everything and decides everything\", and that the Korean people are the masters of Korea's revolution. \"Juche\" is a component of North Korea's political system. The word literally means \"main body\" or \"subject\"; it has also been translated in North Korean sources as \"independent stand\" and the \"spirit of self-reliance\".\n\nThe \"Juche\" Idea gradually emerged as a systematic ideological doctrine in the 1960s. Kim Il-sung outlined the three fundamental principles of \"Juche\" as being:\n\nUnlike in South Korea, North Koreans tend to see the North Korean state and the \"Korean race\" (Korean: \"Minjok\") as being analogous.\n\nWhile nationalistic theory and practice during the colonial era and the First Republic of South Korea were class-based and movement specific forces, in the South Korea of recent times (1990s onward) a more broad-based (including middle-income classes) sentiment has developed in the national ethos, the so-called \"New Nationalism.\" Two ideologies drive the new nationalism: the old national liberation movement logic of anti-imperialism on the one hand, and a state-worshipping ideology introduced by the Park Jung-Hee regime and embodied in its pledge of National Allegiance (국민교육헌장), on the other hand.\n\nThe \"New\" South Korean nationalism drives public policy and has been a powerful controlling force upon the South Korean polity since 2004. It has had a coercive power to raise national consensus on such divisive issues as the South Korea's participation in the War on Iraq, strengthened gestures for sovereignty in the face of a unilateral military alliance with the United States, modern confrontations with China and Japan over territorial issues, and so forth.\n\nState-based nationalism in South Korea is weak, compared with the more salient racial nationalism. Most South Koreans tend to see the \"Korean race\" and the South Korean state as being separate subjects, whereas in North Korea, its citizens see the North Korean state and the \"Korean race\" as being coterminous. Due to the tradition and state support for race nationalism, South Koreans tend to see positive achievements as being a result of inherent racial characteristics, whereas negative events are attributed to the incompetence and inherent inferiority of the state. One of the reasons of South Koreans' lack of support for the South Korean state is due to the popular misconception that only North Korea purged its regime of pro-Japanese collaborators of the colonial period. According to Brian Reynolds Myers, a professor at Dongseo University:\n\nThis weak state nationalism was reflected in the former South Korean military oath and former pledge of allegiance, which pledged allegiance to the \"Korean race\" over the state.\n\nThe legacy of the colonial period of Korean history continues to fuel recriminations and demands for restitution in both Koreas. North and South Korea have both lodged severe protests against visits by Japanese officials to the Yasukuni Shrine, which is seen as glorifying the Class A war criminals whose remains are held there. Koreans claim that a number of Korean women who worked near Japanese military bases as comfort women were forced to serve as sex slaves against their will for Japanese soldiers during World War II which is a persistent thorn in the side of Japan-Korea relations since the 1990s. Disagreements over demands for reparations and a formal apology still remain unresolved despite the previous agreement and compensation in 1965, Koreans started peaceful vigils in 1992 held by survivors on a weekly basis. Recent Japanese history textbook controversies have emerged as a result of what some see as an attempt at historical revisionism with the aim of whitewashing or ignoring Japan's war crimes during World War II. These issues continue to separate the two countries diplomatically, and provide fuel for nationalism in both Koreas as well as anti-Japanese sentiment.\n\nAccording to Robert E. Kelly, a professor at Pusan National University, anti-Japanese racism in South Korea stems not just from Imperial Japanese atrocities during the colonial era, but from the Korean Peninsula's division. As a result, Kelly says, South Koreans take out the anger rising from Korean division against Japan. This view is supported by another professor, Brian Reynolds Myers of Dongseo University.\n\nThe Liancourt Rocks dispute has been ongoing since the end of World War II after the United States rejected Korea's claim to give sovereignty of the Liancourt Rocks islands, known as Dokdo or Tokto (독도/獨島, literally \"solitary island\") in Korean and Takeshima in Japanese, to Korea in the 1951.\nSince 1954, the South Koreans have administered the islands but bickering on both sides involving nationalism and lingering historical acrimony has led to the current impasse. Adding to this problem is political pressure from conservative politicians and nationalist groups in both South Korea and Japan to have more assertive territorial policies.\n\nWith the introduction of the 1994 UN Law of the Sea Convention, South Korea and Japan began to set their new maritime boundaries, particularly in overlapping terrain in the Sea of Japan (East Sea), where some exclusive economic zone (EEZ) borders was less than apart. Tensions escalated in 1996 when both governments declared a EEZ that encompassed the island, which brought Japan-South Korean relations to an all-time low.\n\nThis has not only complicated bilateral relations but heightened nationalist sentiments on both sides. In spite of generational change and the passage of time, the institutionalization of Korean collective memory is causing young Koreans to be as anti-Japanese, if not more so, than the older generation. For Koreans, \"historical memory and feelings of \"han\" (resentment) run deeply and can influence Korea's relations with its neighbors, allies, and enemies in ways not easily predicted by models of policy-making predicated on realpolitik or other geo-strategic or economic concerns.\"\n\nDue to Korea’s colonial past, safeguarding the island has become equivalent to safeguarding the nation-state and its national identity. A territory’s value and importance is not limited to its physical dimensions but also the psychological value it holds as a source of sovereignty and identity. Triggered by strong feelings of injustice and humiliation, Korean nationalistic sentiment has become involved in the dispute. The island itself has become to symbolize Korean national identity and pride, making it an issue even more difficult to resolve. South Korea’s claim to the island holds emotional content that goes beyond material significance, and giving way on the island issue to Japan would be seen as compromising the sovereignty of the entire peninsula.\n\nThe South Korean government has also played a role in fanning nationalism in this dispute. President Roh Moo-hyun began a speech on Korea-Japan relations in April 2006 by bluntly stating, “The island is our land” and “for Koreans, the island is a symbol of the complete recovery of sovereignty.” The issue of the island is clearly tied to the protection of the nation-state that was once taken away by Japan. President Roh emphasizes this point again by saying:\n“Dokdo for us is not merely a matter pertaining to territorial rights over tiny islets but is emblematic of bringing closure to an unjust chapter in our history with Japan and of the full consolidation of Korea’s sovereignty.”\nLater on in his speech Roh also mentions the Yasukuni Shrine and Japanese history textbook controversy, saying that they will be dealt with together. Having placed the Liancourt Rocks issue \"in the context of rectifying the historical record between Korea and Japan\" and \"the safeguarding of [Korea's] sovereignty\", compromise becomes impossible. As the French theorist Ernest Renan said, \"Where national memories are concerned, griefs are of more value than triumphs, for they impose duties, and require a common effort.\"\n\nThe Liancourt Rocks dispute has affected the Korean and Japanese perceptions of each other. According to a 2008 survey by Gallup Korea and the Japan Research Center, 20% of Koreans had friendly feelings towards Japan and 36% of Japanese the same towards Korea. When asked for the reason of their antipathy, most Koreans mentioned the territorial dispute over the island, and the Japanese the anti-Japanese sentiment in Korea. This is in contrast to a 2002 survey (post 2002 FIFA World Cup) conducted by the Chosun Ilbo and Mainichi Shimbun, where 35% of Koreans and 69% of Japanese had friendly views of the other country.\n\nAnti-Americanism in Korea began with the earliest contact between the two nations and continued after the division of Korea. In both North Korea and South Korea, anti-Americanism after the Korean War has focused on the presence and behavior of American military personnel (USFK), aggravated especially by high-profile accidents or crimes by U.S. servicemembers, with various crimes including rape and assault, among others.\n\nThe 2002 Yangju highway incident especially ignited Anti-American passions. The ongoing U.S. military presence in South Korea, especially at the Yongsan Garrison (on a base previously used by the Imperial Japanese Army during Colonial Korea) in central Seoul, remains a contentious issue. While protests have arisen over specific incidents, they are often reflective of deeper historical resentments. Robert Hathaway, director of the Wilson Center's Asia program, suggests: \"the growth of anti-American sentiment in both Japan and South Korea must be seen not simply as a response to American policies and actions, but as reflective of deeper domestic trends and developments within these Asian countries.\"\n\nKorean anti-Americanism after the war was fueled by American occupation of USFK troops and support for the authoritarian rule of Park Chung-hee, and what was perceived as an American endorsement of the brutal tactics used in the Gwangju massacre. Speaking to the Wilson Center, Katherine Moon was noted by Hathaway as suggesting that \"anti-Americanism also represents the collective venting of accumulated grievances that in many instances have lain hidden for decades\", but that despite the \"very public demonstrations of anger toward the United States [...] the majority of Koreans of all age groups supports the continuation of the American alliance.\"\n\nKorean nationalist historians have claimed that Manchuria (Northeast China), in particular Gando (known in China as Jiandao), a region bordering China, North Korea, and Russia, and home to the Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture should be part of Korea, based on prior Goguryeo control of the area. The term Greater Korea, sometimes used in nationalist works, usually enompasses those regions located. The claim for Gando is said to be stronger than the claim for the whole of Manchuria, due to later Balhae presence in Gando after the fall of the Koguryo kingdom, the current area population's consisting of 1/3 ethnic Koreans, and the circumstances of the 1909 Gando Convention that relegated the area to Chinese control. While the Manchurian claims have not received official attention in South Korea, claims for Gando were the subject of a bill introduced in 2004, at a time when China had been claiming that Balhae and Koguryo had been \"minority states\" within China and the resulting controversy was at its height. The legislation proposed by 59 South Korean lawmakers would have declared the Gando Convention signed under Japanese rule to be \"null and void\". Later that year, the two countries reached an understanding that their governments would refrain from further involvement in the historical controversy.\n\nEthnic nationalism emphasizes descent and race. Among some Koreans, ethnicity is interpreted with blood being the key determinant in defining \"Koreanness\".\n\nThe term \"pure blood\" refers to the belief that Korean people are a pure race descended from a single ancestor. First invoked during the period of resistance to colonial rule, the idea of having pure blood gave Koreans an impetus for developing a sense of ethnic homogeneity and national pride, as well as a potential catalyst for racial discrimination and prejudice. As a way of resisting colonial rule, Shin Chaeho published his book \"Joseon Sanggosa\" in the 1920s, proclaiming that Korean descent is based on the Goguryeo kingdom, formed from the intermingling of the descendants of Dangun Joseon with the Buyeo kingdom. This raised a sense of ethnic homogeneity which persists as a major element in Korea's politics and foreign relations. A survey in 2006 showed that 68.2% of respondents considered \"blood\" the most important criterion of defining the Korean nation, and 74.9% agreed that \"Koreans are all brothers and sisters regardless of residence and ideology.\"\n\nBrian Myers argues in his book \"The Cleanest Race: How North Koreans See Themselves and Why It Matters\" (2010) that the North Korean ideology of purest race arose from Japanese fascism. Japanese collaborators are said to have introduced the notion of racial unity in an effort to assert that Japanese and Koreans came from the same racial stock. After Japan left, Myers argues, the theory was adjusted to promote the idea of a pure Korean race.\n\nForeigners may be subject to questions regarding the purity of their blood line, with potential employers \"wanting to know what \"percentage\" of their bloodline was mixed\"\n\nShin Chaeho was the first historian to focus on the Korean \"minjok\" (or ethnicity), and narrated Korean history in terms of its \"minjok\" history. For Shin, \"minjok\" and history were mutually defining and as he says in the preface of the\" Doksa Sillon\", “if one dismisses the \"minjok\", there is no history.” Shin emphasized the ancientness of the Korean \"minjok\" history, elevated the status of the semi-legendary figure, Dangun, as the primordial ancestor of the Korean people and located the host \"minjok\", Puyo. Shin launched a vision of the Korean nation as a historically defined \"minjok\" or ethnicity entity. In an attempt to counter China's controversial Northeast Project and Goguryeo controversies that ensued, the South Korean government in 2007 incorporated the founding of Gojoseon of the year 2333 BCE into its textbooks.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22538780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22538780", "title": "List of Armenian Genocide memorials", "text": "List of Armenian Genocide memorials\n\nA number of organizations, museums, and monuments are intended to serve as memorials to the Armenian Genocide and its over 1 million victims.\n\nThe following table shows the major memorials around the world dedicated to the memory of the Armenian Genocide victims. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "40313166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40313166", "title": "List of Lepidoptera of the Pitcairn Islands", "text": "List of Lepidoptera of the Pitcairn Islands\n\nThe Lepidoptera of the Pitcairn Islands consist of both the butterflies and moths recorded from the Pitcairn Islands, consisting of Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie and Oeno.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38284958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38284958", "title": "List of accolades received by Lincoln (film)", "text": "List of accolades received by Lincoln (film)\n\n\"Lincoln\" is a 2012 American historical drama film directed and produced by Steven Spielberg, starring Daniel Day-Lewis as United States President Abraham Lincoln and Sally Field as Mary Todd Lincoln. The film is based in part on Doris Kearns Goodwin's biography of Lincoln, \"\", and covers the final four months of Lincoln's life, focusing on the President's efforts in January 1865 to have the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution passed by the United States House of Representatives.\n\n\"Lincoln\" premiered on October 8, 2012, at the New York Film Festival. The film was released on November 9, 2012, in select cities and widely released on November 16, 2012, in the United States by DreamWorks through Disney’s Touchstone distribution label in the U.S. The film was released on January 25, 2013 in the United Kingdom, with distribution in international territories, including the U.K., by 20th Century Fox. The film received universal acclaim by critics and was nominated for 12 Academy Awards at the 85th ceremony, the most of any film released in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "14921458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14921458", "title": "List of amusement parks in the Americas", "text": "List of amusement parks in the Americas\n\n\"For a list of water parks in the Americas see List of water parks in the Americas\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCozumel\n\nRiviera Maya\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37321573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37321573", "title": "List of cities in the European Union by Muslim population", "text": "List of cities in the European Union by Muslim population\n\nIslam is the fastest-growing major religion in Europe, primarily due to immigration.\n\nMuslims in Europe are not a homogeneous group. They are of various national, ethnic and racial identities. The top regions of origin of Muslims in Western Europe are Turkey, the Maghreb (including Morocco and Algeria), and South Asia (including Pakistan and Afghanistan).\n\nIn Western Europe, Muslims generally live in major urban areas, often concentrated in poor neighborhoods of large cities.\n\nAccording to the Pew Forum, the total number of Muslims in Europe in 2010 was about 44 million (6%). The total number of Muslims in the European Union in 2010 was about 19 million (3.8%). The French capital of Paris and its metropolitan area has the largest number (up to 1.7 million according to \"The Economist\") of Muslims out of any city in the European Union. London also has a substantial community of Muslim origin, numbering about 1 million within the limits of Greater London and exceeding this figure when the entire metropolitan area is taken into account.\n\nBy 2030, people of Muslim faith or origin are predicted to form about 10% of the population of France and 8% of the population of Europe. \n\nThe table below lists large cities of the European Union with significant Muslim populations, some estimating the percentage of Muslims by using the percentage of Asians in those cities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13555565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13555565", "title": "List of diplomatic missions in Afghanistan", "text": "List of diplomatic missions in Afghanistan\n\nThis is a list of diplomatic missions in Afghanistan. At present, the capital city of Kabul hosts 37 embassies. With the presence of NATO troops, many of the organization's members have opened embassies in the country. This listing excludes honorary consulates.\n\nEmbassies in Kabul:\n\n\nHerat\n\nJalalabad\n\nKandahar\n\nMazar-e-Sharif\n\nResident in Islamabad unless otherwise noted\n\n"}
{"id": "26410537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26410537", "title": "List of kennel clubs", "text": "List of kennel clubs\n\nA Kennel Club (known as a Kennel Council or Canine Council in some countries) is an organization for canine affairs that concerns itself with the breeding, showing and promotion of more than one breed of dog. All-encompassing kennel clubs are also referred to as 'all-breed clubs', although \"all\" means only those breeds that they have decided to recognize, and \"breed\" means purebred dogs, not including dog hybrids and crossbreeds or mixed-breed dogs. A club that handles only one breed is known as a breed club.\n"}
{"id": "355225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355225", "title": "List of renamed places in Zimbabwe", "text": "List of renamed places in Zimbabwe\n\nPlace names in Zimbabwe, including the name of the country itself, have been altered at various points in history. The name Zimbabwe was officially adopted concurrently with Britain's grant of independence in April 1980. Prior to that point, the country had been called Southern Rhodesia from 1898 to 1964 (or 1980, according to British law), Rhodesia from 1964 to 1979, and Zimbabwe Rhodesia between June and December 1979. Since Zimbabwean independence in 1980, the names of cities, towns, streets and other places have been changed by the government, most prominently in a burst of renaming in 1982.\n\nThe Zimbabwean government began renaming cities, towns, streets and other places in 1982, hoping to remove vestiges of British and Rhodesian rule. The capital city, Salisbury, was renamed Harare. Many other place names merely had their spellings altered to better reflect local pronunciation in Shona or Kalanga, as under white rule the spellings officially adopted often coincided with pronunciation in Sindebele. Most major cities and towns were renamed, but some places with an Ndebele majority—such as Bulawayo, the country's second city—were not. Some smaller towns retain their colonial-era names, such as Beitbridge, West Nicholson and Fort Rixon. Street names were changed wholesale, with British-style names, particularly those of colonial figures, being phased out in favour of those of black nationalist leaders, prominently Robert Mugabe, Joshua Nkomo and Jason Moyo.\n\nThe name of the country has changed several times since it was originally demarcated in the late-nineteenth century by Cecil Rhodes' British South Africa Company. The company initially referred to each territory it acquired by its respective name—Mashonaland, Matabeleland and so on—and collectively called its lands \"Zambesia\" (Rhodes' personal preference) or \"Charterland\" (Leander Starr Jameson's), but neither of these caught on. Most of the first settlers instead called their new home Rhodesia, after Rhodes; this was common enough usage by 1891 to be used by journalists. In 1892, the \"Rhodesia Chronicle\" and \"Rhodesia Herald\" newspapers were first published, respectively at Tuli and Salisbury. The company officially applied the name Rhodesia in 1895. \"It is not clear why the name should have been pronounced with the emphasis on the second rather than the first syllable,\" Robert Blake comments, \"but this appears to have been the custom from the beginning and it never changed.\"\n\nMatabeleland and Mashonaland, both of which lay south of the Zambezi, were first officially referred to collectively by Britain as Southern Rhodesia in 1898. Southern Rhodesia attained responsible government as a self-governing colony in 1923, while Northern Rhodesia (to the Zambezi's north) became a directly administered British colony the following year.\n\nThe name \"Zimbabwe\", based on a Shona term for Great Zimbabwe, an ancient ruined city in the country's south-east, was first recorded as a term of national reference in 1960, when it was coined by the black nationalist Michael Mawema, whose Zimbabwe National Party became the first to officially use the name in 1961. The term Rhodesia, derived from Rhodes' surname, was perceived as inappropriate because of its colonial origin and connotations. According to Mawema, black nationalists held a meeting in 1960 to choose an alternative name for the country, and the names Machobana and Monomotapa were proposed before his suggestion, Zimbabwe, prevailed. A further alternative, put forward by nationalists in Matabeleland, had been \"Matopos\", referring to the Matopos Hills to the south of Bulawayo.\n\nIt was initially not clear how the chosen term was to be used—a letter written by Mawema in 1961 refers to \"Zimbabweland\"—but \"Zimbabwe\" was sufficiently established by 1962 to become the generally preferred term of the black nationalist movement. In a 2001 interview, black nationalist Edson Zvobgo recalled that the name was mentioned by Mawema during a political rally, \"and it caught hold, and that was that\". The name was subsequently used by the black nationalist factions during the Second \"Chimurenga\" campaigns against the Rhodesian government during the Rhodesian Bush War. The most major of these were the Zimbabwe African National Union (led by Robert Mugabe from 1975), and the Zimbabwe African People's Union, led by Joshua Nkomo from its founding in the early-1960s.\n\nWhen Northern Rhodesia achieved independence as Zambia in 1964, the Southern Rhodesian government introduced a bill to allow the country to be known simply as Rhodesia, which passed its third reading on 9 December 1964. Although no assent was given to the bill, the revised name was widely adopted, and following the Unilateral Declaration of Independence in 1965, it was the name of the unrecognised government. This name was used until June 1979, when new institutions of government came into power following the Internal Settlement of the previous year. The country adopted the name Zimbabwe-Rhodesia. Following the terms of the Lancaster House Agreement of December 1979 that the United Kingdom should preside over fresh elections before granting independence, direct British control started that month with reversion to the former name of Southern Rhodesia. The UK granted independence under the name Zimbabwe on 18 April 1980.\n\nStarting in 1982, on the second anniversary of the country's independence as Zimbabwe, the government began renaming cities, towns and streets in an attempt to eradicate symbols of British colonialism and white minority rule. The capital Salisbury, which had been named after the British Prime Minister, the 3rd Marquess of Salisbury, was renamed Harare, after the Shona chief Neharawa. Other place names were simply new transliterations, to reflect the correct pronunciation in the relevant local language—many places had been denoted with the Sindebele language pronunciation during the colonial period. This generally included the letter \"l\", which does not exist in Shona, being used instead of \"r\".\n\nWhile most larger cities and towns were renamed, the European spelling of Zimbabwe's second-largest city, Bulawayo, remains unchanged. Other towns which have retained names of European origin include mostly smaller communities such as Beitbridge, Colleen Bawn, West Nicholson, Fort Rixon, Craigmore, Cashel, Juliasdale, Glendale, and Birchenough Bridge. The colonial-era names of suburbs of Harare, such as Borrowdale, Highlands, Rietfontein, Tynwald, and Mount Pleasant also remained unchanged. An exception was Harari, which was renamed Mbare.\n\nStreet names were also changed, with names of British colonists such as Cecil Rhodes being replaced with those of Zimbabwean nationalist leaders, such as Jason Moyo, Josiah Tongogara, Simon Muzenda, and Leopold Takawira. Robert Mugabe's name eventually became attached to the main street or town centre of every sizeable town as a result of a spate of changes in 1990. Other streets have been named after leaders of neighbouring countries, such as Samora Machel of Mozambique, Julius Nyerere of Tanzania, Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia and Nelson Mandela of South Africa. Others have a general pan-African nationalist theme, such as Africa Unity Square in Harare, formerly Cecil Square.\n"}
{"id": "19395694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19395694", "title": "List of sites and peoples visited by the Hernando de Soto Expedition", "text": "List of sites and peoples visited by the Hernando de Soto Expedition\n\nThis is a list of sites and peoples visited by the Hernando de Soto Expedition in the years 1539–1543. In May 1539, de Soto left Havana, Cuba, with nine ships, over 620 men and 220 surviving horses and landed at Charlotte Harbor, Florida. This began his three-year odyssey through the Southeastern North American continent, from which de Soto and a large portion of his men would not return. They met many varied Native American groups, most of them bands and chiefdoms related to the widespread Mississippian culture. Only a few of these cultures survived into the seventeenth century. Others have been recorded only in the written historical accounts of de Soto's expedition.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39105594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39105594", "title": "List of songs recorded by Oh Land", "text": "List of songs recorded by Oh Land\n\nDanish singer-songwriter Oh Land has recorded material for four studio albums and guest features. She has also released an EP and a soundtrack album, and appeared as a featured artist for songs on other artists' releases. After solely writing and independently issuing \"Fauna\" in 2008 with Fake Diamond Records, Oh Land released her eponymous second studio album in 2011. \"Oh Land\" explored dance and modern pop music and featured contributions from a variety of producers. It peaked at number five on the Danish Albums Chart, and became certified platinum for sales of 20,000 copies in December 2012. \"Oh Land\" additionally peaked at number 184 on the United States' \"Billboard\" 200, becoming her first and only album to do so. Five singles were released from the effort, with three of them (\"Sun of a Gun\", \"White Nights\", and \"Speak Out Now\") peaking within the top forty of the single charts in Denmark; \"Sun of a Gun\" also landed the number twelve spot on \"Billboard\"s Dance Club Songs chart. Oh Land's \"otherworldy vocals\" and \"lush soundscapes\" on the album drew comparisons to the music of Björk, La Roux, and Lykke Li. She was featured three times on Danish rock band Kashmir's sixth studio album \"Trespassers\" (2010), on \"Bewildering in the City\", \"Mouthful of Wasps\", and \"Pallas Athena\". In 2011, Oh Land contributed guest vocals to \"Life Goes On\", a promotional single for \"The Papercut Chronicles II\" (2011) by Gym Class Heroes.\n\nThe singer spent a two-year hiatus preceding the release of \"Wish Bone\" in 2013. The record similarly contained music from the pop genre, and was announced alongside the release of three singles: \"Renaissance Girls\", \"Pyromaniac\", and \"Cherry on Top\". It featured contributions from American musician Dave Sitek and its material was compared to the works of Robyn and Goldfrapp. Additionally, Sitek's work with the singer was outed for not being radio-friendly and instead focused on \"strange\" and \"unidentifiable instrumentation\" in order to create unique songs. Oh Land's fourth studio album, \"Earth Sick\", was released in 2014 and promoted by singles \"Head Up High\" and \"Nothing Is Over\". As a whole, the record had a much \"darker\" tone and the songs relied less on the Scandipop genre. Because of her use of synths on \"Earth Sick\", similarities between the singer and Goldfrapp continued. Oh Land was the lone writer for \"Love a Man Dead\", \"Next Summer\", and \"Renaissance Girls\" on \"Wish Bone\" while she solely wrote all of the tracks from \"Earth Sick\" except for \"Machine\" and \"Nothing Is Over\". She also was one of the artists who contributed to the 2015 compilation album \"Toppen af Poppen 2015\", where she sang six covers of previously released songs. In 2016, Oh Land independently released a soundtrack containing music for a Danish revival of the Cinderella ballet tale, titled \"Askepot\". The compilation contains twelve songs, all of which are performed solely by the singer. Dúné collaborated with the singer in 2016 for the song \"Fall Back\", which is featured on their fourth studio album \"Delta\" (2016). Following the announcement that the singer would release her fifth studio album in 2018, she released a soundtrack titled \"Watermusic\" featuring thirteen original compositions created for a theatre piece detailing the relationship between romance and water. \n\n"}
{"id": "17262826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17262826", "title": "List of towns in Malta", "text": "List of towns in Malta\n\nThe following is a list of towns in Malta. \n\nThe following is a list of towns in Malta\n\n\n\n\nThe Following is a list of towns in Gozo\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23077283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23077283", "title": "Long baseline acoustic positioning system", "text": "Long baseline acoustic positioning system\n\nA long baseline (LBL) acoustic positioning system is one of three broad classes of underwater acoustic positioning systems that are used to track underwater vehicles and divers. The other two classes are ultra short baseline systems (USBL) and short baseline systems (SBL). LBL systems are unique in that they use networks of sea-floor mounted baseline transponders as reference points for navigation. These are generally deployed around the perimeter of a work site. The LBL technique results in very high positioning accuracy and position stability that is independent of water depth. It is generally better than 1-meter and can reach a few centimeters accuracy. LBL systems are generally employed for precision underwater survey work where the accuracy or position stability of ship-based (SBL, USBL) positioning systems does not suffice.\n\nLong baseline systems determine the position of a vehicle or diver by acoustically measuring the distance from a vehicle or diver interrogator to three or more seafloor deployed baseline transponders. These range measurements, which are often supplemented by depth data from pressure sensors on the devices, are then used to triangulate the position of the vehicle or diver. In figure 1, a diver mounted interrogator (A) sends a signal, which is received by the baseline transponders (B, C, D). The transponders reply, and the replies are received again by the diver station (A). Signal run time measurements now yield the distances A-B, A-C and A-D, which are used to compute the diver position by triangulation or position search algorithms. The resulting positions are relative to the location of the baseline transducers. These can be readily converted to a geo-referenced coordinate system such as latitude/longitude or UTM if the geo-positions of the baseline stations are first established.\n\nLong baseline systems get their name from the fact that the spacing of the baseline transponders is long or similar to the distance between the diver or vehicle and the transponders. That is, the baseline transponders are typically mounted in the corners of an underwater work site within which the vehicle or diver operates. This method yields an ideal geometry for positioning, in which any given error in acoustic range measurements produce only about an equivalent position error. This compares to SBL and USBL systems with shorter baselines where ranging disturbances of a given amount can result in much larger position errors. Further, the mounting of the baseline transponders on the sea floor eliminates the need for converting between reference frames, as is the case for USBL or SBL positioning systems mounted on moving vessels. Finally, sea floor mounting makes the positioning accuracy independent of water depth. For these reasons LBL systems are generally applied to tasks where the required standard of positioning accuracy or reliability exceeds the capabilities of USBL and SBL systems.\n\nThe search and inspection of the lost nuclear submarine USS Thresher by the U.S. Navy oceanographic vessel USNS Mizar in 1963 is frequently credited as the origin of modern underwater acoustic navigation systems. Mizar primarily used a short baseline (SBL) system to track the bathyscaphe Trieste 1. However, its capability also included seafloor transponders, which in conjunction with early navigation satellites supported station-keeping with a precision of about 300 feet, considered remarkable at the time.\n\nBy the mid-1960s and possibly earlier, the Soviets were developing underwater navigation systems including seafloor transponders to allow nuclear submarines to operate precisely while staying submerged. Besides navigating through canyons and other difficult underwater terrain, there was also a need to establish the position of the submarine prior to the launch of a nuclear missile (ICBM). In 1981, acoustic positioning was proposed as part of the U.S. military's MX missile system. A network of 150 covert transponder fields was envisioned. Submarines typically are guided by inertial navigation systems, but these dead reckoning systems develop position drift which must be corrected by occasional position fixes from a GNSS system. If the enemy were to knock out the GNSS satellites, the submarine could rely on the covert transponder network to establish its position and program the missile's own inertial navigation system for launch.\n"}
{"id": "48311098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48311098", "title": "Loxodromic navigation", "text": "Loxodromic navigation\n\nLoxodromic navigation (from Greek \"λοξóς\", oblique, and \"δρóμος\", path) is a method of navigation by following a rhumb line, a curve on the surface of the Earth that follows the same angle at the intersection with each meridian. This serves to maintain a steady course in sailing.\n\nNavigating on a spherical surface with a fixed course (formula_1 in the figure) results in a spiral path that approaches the North Pole for courses ranging from 270º to 090º and the South Pole for courses from 090º to 270º. On a nautical chart plotted according to the Mercator projection, a loxodromic course appears as a straight line.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20417016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20417016", "title": "Magic Mountain (British Columbia)", "text": "Magic Mountain (British Columbia)\n\nMagic Mountain is a large long-lived hydrothermal vent field on the Southern Explorer Ridge, located about 150 miles west of Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. Unlike most hydrothermal systems found in the Pacific Ocean, Magic Mountain is situated outside the Explorer Ridge. Its source is believed to rise along fault systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "21994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21994", "title": "Navigation research", "text": "Navigation research\n\nWhereas originally the term Navigation applies to the process of directing a ship to a destination, Navigation research deals with fundamental aspects of navigation in general. It can be defined as \"The process of determining and maintaining a course or trajectory to a goal location\" (Franz, Mallot, 2000).\nIt concerns basically all moving agents, biological or artificial, or remote-controlled.\n\nFranz and Mallot proposed a navigation hierarchy in \"Robotics and Autonomous Systems 30\" (2006):\nThere are two basic methods for navigation:\n\n\nIn human navigation people visualize different routes in their minds to plan how to get from one place to another. The things which they rely on to plan these routes vary from person to person and are the basis of the differing navigational strategies.\nSome people use measures of distance and absolute directional terms (north, south, east, and west) in order to visualize the best pathway from point to point. The use of these more general, external cues as directions is considered part of an allocentric navigation strategy. Allocentric navigation is typically seen in males and is beneficial primarily in large and/or unfamiliar environments. This likely has some basis in evolution when males would have to navigate through large and unfamiliar environments while hunting. The use of allocentric strategies when navigating primarily activates the hippocampus and parahippocampus in the brain. This navigation strategy relies more on a mental, spatial map than visible cues, giving it an advantage in unknown areas but a flexibility to be used in smaller environments as well. The fact that it is mainly males that favor this strategy is likely related to the generalization that males are better navigators than females as it is better able to be applied in a greater variety of settings.\n\nEgocentric navigation relies on more local landmarks and personal directions (left/right) to navigate and visualize a pathway. This reliance on more local and well-known stimuli for finding their way makes it difficult to apply in new locations, but is instead most effective in smaller, familiar environments. Evolutionarily, egocentric navigation likely comes from our ancestors who would forage for their food and need to be able to return to the same places daily to find edible plants. This foraging usually occurred in relatively nearby areas and was most commonly done by the females in hunter-gatherer societies. Females, today, are typically better at knowing where various landmarks are and often rely on them when giving directions. Egocentric navigation causes high levels of activation in the right parietal lobe and prefrontal regions of the brain that are involved in visuospatial processing.\n\nOutdoor robots can use GPS in a similar way to automotive navigation systems.\nAlternative systems can be used with floor plan instead of maps for indoor robots, combined with localization wireless hardware.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4933216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4933216", "title": "Osu, Accra", "text": "Osu, Accra\n\nLocated about east of the central business district, Osu is a neighborhood in central Accra, Ghana, known for its busy commercial, restaurant and nightlife activity. It is locally known as the \"West End\" of Accra. Bounded to the south by the Gulf of Guinea, Osu's western boundary is the Independence Avenue. Ring Road separates Osu from the northern district of Labone.\n\nOwing to its establishment as a settlement around the Danish fort of Christiansborg in the 17th century, Osu offers a mix of houses dating from the early 20th century (both low-rise apartment blocks and detached houses) to modern office towers. Ringway Estates, a gated residential community between Gamel Abdul Nasser Avenue and Cantonments Road is located in the western section of Osu.\n\nThe main thoroughfare, Cantonments Road (colloquially known as Oxford Street) features large supermarkets and appliance shops, and is renowned for its food joints and lively nightlife. At its southern end is the site of the 17th-century Fort Christiansborg, a former Danish colonial fort, which formerly housed the seat of government, and relocated to The Flagstaff House near the 37 Military Hospital after it was reconstructed by Former President, John Kufuor.\n\nOsu-RE located on \"Oxford Street\" is arguably the liveliest part of Accra and Ghana as a whole, the most preferred hang-out spot for tourists visiting the city. With most of the country's entertaining places located in the Osu-Re, the town hosts people with diverse cultures and entertainment from different countries.\n\nThe head office of Starbow is in Osu.\n\n"}
{"id": "26613543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26613543", "title": "Panov Seamount", "text": "Panov Seamount\n\nPanov is minor seamount in the southeast Pacific located near the western part of the Valdivia Fracture Zone.\n"}
{"id": "20530028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20530028", "title": "Personnel of the Shackleton–Rowett Expedition", "text": "Personnel of the Shackleton–Rowett Expedition\n\nThe Shackleton–Rowett Expedition, 1921–22, was the last Antarctic expedition led by Sir Ernest Shackleton. Proposed as an ambitious two-year programme of Antarctic exploration it was curtailed by the death of Shackleton and the inadequacies of the expedition's ship, \"Quest\". Under the command of Frank Wild several attempts were made to break through the Antarctic pack ice, but the expedition was never able to proceed further than longitude 20°E. On the crew's return to Cape Town to refit in preparation for the second term they were ordered home. The crew of the \"Quest\" comprised 24 members in all, but only 19 were on board for the start of the Antarctic portion (Hussey accompanied Shackleton's body when it was put on board a ship for England, and Eriksen, Mooney and Bee-Mason had left before the ship reached South Georgia). Gerald Lysaght, a yachtsman, accompanied the crew from Plymouth to Cape Verde.\n\n"}
{"id": "239171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239171", "title": "Provinces of Cuba", "text": "Provinces of Cuba\n\nAdministratively, Cuba is divided into 15 provinces and a special municipality that's not included in any province. The last modification was approved in August 2010 (by the Cuban National Assembly), splitting Havana province into two new provinces: Artemisa (which incorporates the three eastern municipalities of the neighbour Pinar del Río) and Mayabeque. The new provinces started functioning from January 1, 2011. Havana City Province (Ciudad de La Habana) recovered its original name: La Habana (Havana in English).\n\nFrom west to east, Cuba's provinces are:\n\nThe provinces were created in 1879 by the Spanish colonial government. From 1879 to 1976, Cuba was divided into 6 provinces, which maintained with little changes the same boundaries and capital cities, although with modifications in official names. These \"historical\" provinces are the following (from west to east):\n\n\"Pop. = Population. Source: Cuba census 2002\" \nPresidents of the Provincial Assemblies of People's Power in each province in the country (local governments).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43595258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43595258", "title": "Pu'uka'oku Falls", "text": "Pu'uka'oku Falls\n\nPu'uka'oku Falls is a waterfall in Molokai, Hawaii. It is the 8th largest waterfall in the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57074587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57074587", "title": "Road signs in Saudi Arabia", "text": "Road signs in Saudi Arabia\n\nThese road signs are used in Saudi Arabia.\n"}
{"id": "11931879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11931879", "title": "Smoking age", "text": "Smoking age\n\nThe smoking age is the minimum legal age required to purchase or smoke tobacco products. Most countries have laws that restrict those below a minimum age from legally purchasing tobacco products.\n\n"}
{"id": "55471391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55471391", "title": "Snos", "text": "Snos\n\nSnos is a village in Croatia, under the Slunj township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "10816189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10816189", "title": "Stac an Armin", "text": "Stac an Armin\n\nStac an Armin (Scottish Gaelic: \"Stac an Àrmainn\"), based on the proper Scottish Gaelic spelling (formerly \"àrmuinn\"), is a sea stack in the St Kilda archipelago. It is 196 metres (643 ft.) tall, qualifying it as a Marilyn. It is the highest sea stack in Scotland and the British Isles.\n\nThe name Stac an Armin means stack of the soldier/warrior, and evidence remains showing it was used by people living nearby as a hunting grounds. It is not believed to have been inhabited year round, but has hosted some (involuntary) extended stays. Climbing the rocks was once done to collect eggs and has continued in the form of recreational sport. The island was once home to the now extinct great auk, and rules exist to protect the bird habitats and breeding grounds.\n\nStac an Armin is 400 metres (¼ mi) north of Boreray and near the 172-metre-high (564 ft) Stac Lee. Stac an Armin is separated from Boreray by a channel \"so littered with rocks\" that it should not be sailed, though sailors write passionately about the views.\n\nThe first written account of the island was Martin Martin's description in the early 18th century. Martin wrote about the island after the Scottish writer had visited St Kilda in 1697 and included a few anecdotes about the stack in his \"A Description of the Western Isles of Scotland\" published in 1703. It was the first comprehensive book on the archipelago, to which was appended \"A Late Voyage to St Kilda\". Martin calls the island \"Stack-Narmin.\"\n\nIt was never inhabited full-time, but hunting its bird population helped sustain the way of life of the population of St Kilda, as evidenced by the buildings they left behind. There are no fewer than 78 storage cleitean on Stac an Armin and a small bothy, built by the St Kildans. Martin describes these cleitean as \"pyramids\" and wrote they were used to \"preserve and dry\" birds, especially the \"solan goose\" (northern gannet). Martin observed one harvest that brought in 800 birds. In addition to the geese, the islanders used Stac an Armin for harvesting great auks, gannets, and puffins, as well as their eggs. The numerous birds that lived on the island were an important source of sustenance for the people of St Kilda.\nThe longest recorded period anyone ever spent on the island was about nine months. Three men and eight boys from Hirta were marooned here from about 15 August 1727 until 13 May 1728. As luck would have it, Hirta suffered a smallpox outbreak while the eleven were on the stack, and thus the islanders were unable to man a boat and retrieve them until the next year. Such temporary accidental occupation of the island may have been a regular event, since Martin Martin also relates, in an anecdote in \"A Description of the Western Islands of Scotland\", how a group of some twenty men were stranded on the island for a couple of days after the rope that held their boat broke. They survived by fishing, and communicated to their wives that they were alive and well by lighting \"as many fires on the top of an eminence as there were men in number.\" Martin adds, curiously, that the wives were so overjoyed that they managed to produce a record harvest of corn that year.\n\nThe archipelago as a whole was evacuated in 1930, and bequeathed to the National Trust for Scotland in 1957. Hunting birds is no longer allowed, and the stack is visited only occasionally by scientists, journalists and climbers.\n\nOn Stac an Armin, in July, 1840, the last great auk (\"Pinguinus impennis\") seen in Britain was caught and killed. A then 75-yr. old inhabitant of St Kilda told Henry Evans, a frequent visitor to the archipelago, that he and his father-in-law with another man had caught a \"garefowl,\" noticing its little wings and the large white spot on its head. They tied it up and kept it alive for three days, and then killed it by beating it with a stick, apparently because they believed it to be a witch. The last known specimens in the world were killed a few years later either in Eldey, Iceland, or off Newfoundland.\n\nNative St Kildans have climbed Stac an Armin and other cliffs in St Kilda for centuries in order to harvest birds and eggs; they climbed alpine-style, barefoot or in thick socks, using ropes pleated of horse hair. Modern ascents are few; some may have been done illegally. Mountaindays.net has no routes, information, or comments; however, chatter among online groups suggests attempts are made. The summit of Stac an Armin was reached by a party of 11 Marilyn baggers on 13 October 2014. Prior to that, the only verifiable modern ascent happened in 1969, when a group which included Dick Balharry and John Morton Boyd made a number of ascents in the archipelago, which included climbing Stac an Armin.\n\nClimbing Stac an Armin (and Stac Lee), though attractive (\"St Kilda presents some of the most challenging climbing in Britain\") is complicated by a number of factors. The climb of Stac an Armin itself is described as \"little easier than Stac Lee,\" but the topography makes it a \"major expedition\" and \"the weather can make nonsense of any landing plans.\" The stack is accessible only with difficulty; more importantly, since the entire archipelago is both a National Nature Reserve and a World Heritage Site (principally for the cliffs and seabird colonies) managed by Scottish Natural Heritage (SNH), climbing is strictly regulated since it potentially disturbs the natural and cultural heritage and particularly the rich birdlife; according to the 2003 Management Plan, \"For natural heritage interests, natural processes will normally be allowed to continue without intervention.\"\nThe 2003 Management Plan is quite specific about the dangers of climbing in St Kilda: the object of prescription 21.5 is to \"Ensure that breeding seabirds are not disturbed by climbing on the cliffs,\" though the Plan suggests the allowance of climbing the cliffs under strictly monitored circumstances. Prescription 26.4 states that a policy that satisfies climbers and does not violate the Trust's mission is to be developed. The Trust's strict but preliminary position on climbing was formalized quite explicitly: \n\nThe Mountaineering Council of Scotland, in a review of the plan, \"recommends that the NTS celebrate the historical importance and the cultural heritage of the climbing on the Islands of St Kilda.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53055712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53055712", "title": "Tampere urban area", "text": "Tampere urban area\n\nTampere urban area (, ), is the second largest urban area, \"taajama\", in the Pirkanmaa region, Finland. It had almost 320.000 inhibitants and 265,86 km² area in 2012. \n\n"}
{"id": "52837251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52837251", "title": "TanSat", "text": "TanSat\n\nTanSat, also known as CarbonSat, is a Chinese Earth observation satellite dedicated to monitoring carbon dioxide in Earth's atmosphere. It is generally classified as a minisatellite, and is the first dedicated carbon mission of the Chinese space program. The mission was formally proposed in 2010, and work began in January 2011. It is funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) and was built by the Shanghai Institute of Microsystem And Information Technology (SIMIT).\n\nTanSat carries two instruments: the Carbon Dioxide Spectrometer and the Cloud and Aerosol Polarimetry Imager. The Carbon Dioxide Spectrometer (CDS), also called CarbonSpec, is a high-resolution grating spectrometer which measures absorption at 1.61 µm and 2.06 µm, and absorption in reflected sunlight at 0.76 µm. The Cloud and Aerosol Polarimetry Imager (CAPI) is a wide-field, moderate-resolution, imaging spectrometer which works in concert with CDS by compensating for measurement errors caused by clouds and aerosols. It makes observations in ultraviolet (0.38 µm), visible (0.67 µm), and near infrared (0.87 µm, 1.375 µm, and 1.64 µm).\n"}
{"id": "34677639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34677639", "title": "Thomas Adolphus Bowden", "text": "Thomas Adolphus Bowden\n\nThomas Adolphus Bowden (26 July 1824 – 24 June 1906) was an English-born New Zealand Anglican clergyman, farmer, teacher and educationalist. He was born in London on 26 July 1824.\n"}
{"id": "39437754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39437754", "title": "United Nations romanization systems for geographical names", "text": "United Nations romanization systems for geographical names\n\nThe United Nations romanization systems for geographical names (U.N.R.S.G.N.) are alternative romanization systems to ISO romanization developed by the United Nations Group of Experts on Geographical Names under the United Nations Statistical Commission.\n"}
{"id": "68888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68888", "title": "Valley of Rephaim", "text": "Valley of Rephaim\n\nValley of Rephaim (, \"Emeq Rephaim\")- (; , R.V.). A valley descending southwest from Jerusalem to the Valley of Elah below, it is an ancient route from the coastal plain to the Judean Hills, probably named after the legendary race of giants.\n\nWhen David became king over all Israel, the Philistines, judging that he would now become their uncompromising enemy, made a sudden attack upon Hebron, compelling David to retire from it. He sought refuge in \"the hold\" at Adullam (), and the Philistines took up their position in the valley of Rephaim, on the west and south-west of Jerusalem. Thus all communication between Bethlehem and Jerusalem was intercepted. While David and his army were encamped here, there occurred that incident narrated in . Having obtained divine direction, David led his army against the Philistines, and gained a complete victory over them. The scene of this victory was afterwards called Baal-perazim.\n\nA second time, however, the Philistines rallied their forces in this valley (). Again, warned by a divine saying about hearing a marching sound in the tops of the baka trees (הבכאים, KJV \"mulberry trees\", most modern versions \"balsam\"), David led his army to Gibeon, and attacked the Philistines from the south, inflicting on them another severe defeat, and chasing\nthem with great slaughter to Gezer (q.v.). There David kept in check these enemies of Israel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54634549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54634549", "title": "Zandrigo", "text": "Zandrigo\n\nZandrigo is a settlement in Cantagalo District, São Tomé Island in the nation of São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 765 (2012 census). It lies directly west of Santana.\n"}
