{"id": "36907837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36907837", "title": "1969 Greensboro uprising", "text": "1969 Greensboro uprising\n\nThe 1969 Greensboro uprising occurred on and around the campuses of James B. Dudley High School and North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University (A&T) in Greensboro, North Carolina, when, over the course of May 21 to May 25, gunfire was exchanged between student protesters, police and National Guard. One student bystander, Willie Grimes, was killed, although whether he was killed by police or protesters remains unknown.\n\nThe uprising was sparked by perceived civil rights issues at the segregated high school, when a popular student council write-in presidential candidate was denied his landslide victory allegedly because school officials feared his activism in the Black Power movement. Starting on the campus of Dudley High School, the uprising spread to A&T campus where students had stood up in support of the Dudley protest. Escalating violence eventually led to armed confrontation and the invasion of the A&T campus by what was described at the time as \"the most massive armed assault ever made against an American university\". The uprising ended soon after the National Guard made a sweep of A&T college dormitories, taking hundreds of students into protective custody.\n\nWhile local officials blamed outside agitators, a report released by the North Carolina State Advisory Committee to the United States Commission on Civil Rights found that James B. Dudley High School had an unjust system and suppressed dissent. They found the National Guard invasion reckless and disproportionate to the actual danger, and criticized local community leaders for failing to help the Dudley High School students when the issues first emerged. They declared it \"a sad commentary that the only group in the community who would take the Dudley students seriously were the students at A&T State University.\"\n\nBefore events began to coalesce in the spring of 1969, the students at James B. Dudley High School were already unhappy. They no longer believed that desegregation of the school system in Greensboro was a possibility. Their school was the only school in the district to place restrictions on student attire or forbid students leaving campus for lunch. But the catalyst for their uprising was their failure to elect a student council president of their choice.\n\nEven though he was not permitted on the ballot, the students attempted to place honor student Claude Barnes in the office of president as a write-in. A senior, Barnes had been politically active in his earlier years at the school, but was feared by school officials, who believed him a militant advocate of Black Power as a member of the Youth for the Unity of Black Society. Barnes won the election with 600 votes, a landslide compared to the top official candidate who received 200. But the student body was informed on May 1 that Barnes would not be permitted to run.\n\nThe students of Dudley High turned for assistance to A&T. In the later 1960s, A&T was a center for the Black Power movement in the South. They took the Dudley students seriously. On May 2, A&T students attempted to join discussions with school administrators, but their several attempts proved unsuccessful. \n\nAngry response of the students began to build, with an increasing number of students boycotting classes, and armed police were seen in the vicinity of the school in riot gear. On May 9, the school superintendent effectively disempowered the school's black principal, sending in a white administrator to try to quell the trouble. Students made several attempts during this period to reach a peaceful resolution with school officials, but this administrator did not take a sympathetic or conciliatory approach to the students.\n\nOn May 19, events began to reach a head. Police were called to deal with picketing, and, in the midst of alleged police misconduct, nine students were arrested. Student response damaged the school and resulted in more student arrests, as well as student injuries.\n\nOn May 21, during school hours, students again assembled near the school. Police were contacted when an official indicated seeing a weapon on one of the students. Efforts by a school administrator to disperse the protesters peaceably failed when some students instead began throwing rocks through the windows of the school. Police brought tear gas against student protesters, applying it over a larger area than may have been needed for the small percentage of students involved in the protest; in some cases—according to residential bystanders—they pursued and gassed students for blocks even as they attempted to flee. Community members, some of whom were also affected by the tear gas canisters, began throwing rocks at police and cars, while students from Dudley High went again to A&T to appeal for assistance.\n\nEarly response to the situation at Dudley had been restricted to members of the black activism group Student Organization for Black Unity, but the events of the day brought attention from the wider campus. A&T student activist Nelson Johnson reported 400 students marching on Dudley High.\n\nWhile at first violence was contained to tear gas and rocks, the shooting started shortly thereafter. Johnson claims that the first gunfire was instigated by a carload of young white people who fired onto the A&T campus, prompting the students to defend themselves in kind. Police report sniper fire from the dormitories at 10:45 p.m. Wherever it started, the police began returning fire within two hours, and 150 National Guard were sent to the scene to keep the peace. Two students were shot. One of them, bystander Willie Grimes, was killed, although whether he was shot by police or protesters remains unknown. The 22-year-old Grimes had been walking with a group of friends to a restaurant at around 1:30 a.m. when shots came from a passing car. Whether or not the car was a police vehicle has long been the subject of dispute.\n\nGrimes' death ignited the campus. A state of emergency was declared in Greensboro and 500 more National Guardsmen called in. The university was closed down, and a curfew was set for 8p.m. to 5 a.m. During the day of May 22, violence continued, as protesters vented their anger on white motorists, overturning cars and attacking at least one of the drivers. That evening, in spite of the curfew, shooting resumed Early in the morning of the 23rd, a shoot-out resulted in the serious injuries of five policemen and two students, which was followed by what was described at the time by one journalist as \"the most massive armed assault ever made against an American university\", with—according to 2012's \"The Black Revolution on Campus\"—the descent upon A&T of 600 National Guardsmen, a tank, a helicopter, an airplane and several armed personnel carriers. A UPI reporter wrote that \"it looked like war\".\n\nOn information suggesting students may be harboring a large number of guns, then-governor Robert W. Scott ordered the invasion of the dormitory Scott Hall, the centerpoint of the shooting. At approximately 7:00 a.m., supported by smoke, \"nausea\" and tear gas grenades, the National Guard swept through the dorm, placing the students they found under protective custody and doing tens of thousands worth of dollars in damage. Many of the students were packing to evacuate or sleeping at the time of the invasion. Over 300 students from Scott Hall and neighboring dormitories were sent to state prisons, where they were detained through the day. More than 60 bullet holes left their mark on Scott Hall. Students alleged that during the sweep, personal items disappeared. When the sweep was completed, only three operable firearms had been located.\n\nBy the 24th, the violence was contained. The curfew was lifted and the National Guard withdrawn. The uprising was declared over on May 25.\n\nWillie Grimes' funeral was attended by 2,000 people, and a marker was erected on campus in his memory.\n\nGovernor Scott stated that the violence had been incited by a group of hard-core militants who had seized on the high school election as a catalyst for furthering their own cause. On October 3 and 4 of that year, meetings were held to investigate the incident under the direction of the North Carolina State Advisory Committee to the United States Commission on Civil Rights. While local officials continued blaming \"outsiders\" and \"radicals\" for the event, the committee found that the \"prevailing system\" at Dudley was unjust and that the school had suppressed dissent. Criticizing the inaction or ineffective action of school officials and community leaders, they declared it \"a sad commentary that the only group in the community who would take the Dudley students seriously were the students at A&T State University.\" They also condemned the conduct of the National Guard sweep of Scott Hall, which endangered innocent students and seemed out of proportion to the actual risk, writing that \"it is difficult to justify the lawlessness and the disorder in which this operation was executed.\"\n\nIn 1979, Jack Elam, Greensboro's mayor during the event, expressed discomfort with the sweep of Scott Hall, but—although he agreed that communication had been poor—declared the committee's report a \"joke\". Johnson, who had been arrested for inciting the Dudley students to riot and who was instrumental in bringing the committee to review the situation, wrote later that the community ignored the Advisory Committee's report. Additional black policemen were employed by the city, although by 1979 the number of black policemen were still not representative of the proportion of black residents of the area.\n\n2008 saw the release of a documentary recounting the event, \"Walls that Bleed\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24501416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24501416", "title": "60 Second Assassin (emcee)", "text": "60 Second Assassin (emcee)\n\nFrederick Cuffie Jr., known by his stage name 60 Second Assassin, is a rapper who is known as a member of Sunz of Man, an early affiliate of Wu-Tang Clan.\n"}
{"id": "26677857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26677857", "title": "Aba II", "text": "Aba II\n\nAba II was Patriarch of the Church of the East from 741 to 751. He is included in the traditional list of patriarchs of the Church of the East.\n\nBrief accounts of Aba's reign are given in the \"Ecclesiastical Chronicle\" of the Jacobite writer Bar Hebraeus (\"floruit\" 1280) and in the ecclesiastical histories of the Nestorian writers Mari (twelfth-century), Amr (fourteenth-century) and Sliba (fourteenth-century).\n\nThe following account of Aba's reign is given by Bar Hebraeus:\nAfter fulfilling his office for eleven years, he (Pethion) died in the year 123 of the Arabs [AD 740/1] and was succeeded by Aba Bar Brikh Sebyaneh from Kashkar. This man was well read in church literature and dialectic, wrote a commentary on Gregory Theologus, and devoted all his time to the reading of books. Meanwhile the clerics seized the revenues from his school and removed it from the authority of the catholicus. He took this badly, left Seleucia, and went instead to live in a monastery near Kashkar. Then the clerics suppressed his proclamation by removing his name from the diptychs, but after he wrote them soothing letters and returned to them they welcomed him back. During his time, in the year 129 of the Arabs [AD 746], the caliphate of the Arabs came to an end in Palestine and the caliphate of the Abbasids began in the East. The Abbasids were fonder of the Christians than the Damascenes had been. The catholicus Aba, after fulfilling his office for ten years, died at the age of over a hundred and was buried in Seleucia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1892147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892147", "title": "Aristobulus II", "text": "Aristobulus II\n\nAristobulus II (, ; \"Aristóboulos\") was the Jewish High Priest and King of Judea, 66 BC to 63 BC, from the Hasmonean Dynasty.\n\nAristobulus was the younger son of Alexander Jannaeus, King and High Priest, and Alexandra Salome. After the death of Alexander in 76 BC, his widow succeeded to the rule of Judea and installed her elder son Hyrcanus II as High Priest. When Salome died in 67 BC, Hyrcanus succeeded to the kingship as well. \n\nAristobulus shared his late father's views on religion and politics. He entertained designs upon the throne, even during the life of his mother. He courted the nobles and military party by constituting himself the patron of the Sadducees and bringing their cause before the queen. The many fortresses which the queen placed at the disposal of the Sadducees, ostensibly for their defense against the Pharisees, constituted in reality one of the preparatory moves of Aristobulus for the usurpation of the government. The queen sought to direct his military zeal outside Judea, and sent him (70-69) against Ptolemy Mennaeus; but when the undertaking failed, Aristobulus resumed his political intrigues. He left Jerusalem secretly and betook himself to his friends, who controlled the largest number of fortified places, with the intention of making war against his aged mother. But the queen died at the critical moment, and he immediately turned his weapons against his brother Hyrcanus, the legitimate heir to the throne.\n\nHyrcanus seemed to be sympathetic to the Sadducees just like his father Alexander Jannaeus. Aristobulus rebelled against his elder brother. Because of this conflict, the Pharisees seemed to be in a vulnerable position at this time.\n\nHyrcanus advanced against Aristobulus at the head of his mercenaries and his followers. The brothers met in battle near Jericho and many of Hyrcanus' soldiers went over to Aristobulus, and thereby gave the latter the victory. \n\nHyrcanus took refuge in the citadel of Jerusalem; but the capture of the Temple by Aristobulus compelled Hyrcanus to surrender. A peace was then concluded, according to the terms of which Hyrcanus was to renounce the throne and the office of high priest, but was to enjoy the revenues of the latter office.\n\nThis agreement however did not last, as Antipater the Idumaean convinced Hyrcanus that Aristobulus was planning his death and to take refuge with Aretas III, King of the Nabataeans. The Nabataeans advanced toward Jerusalem with an army of 50,000 and besieged the city for several months.\n\nDuring this civil war, the Roman general Pompey defeated the Kingdoms of Pontus and the Seleucids. He sent his deputy Marcus Aemilius Scaurus to take possession of Seleucid Syria.\n\nAs the Hasmoneans were allies of the Romans, both brothers appealed to Scaurus, each endeavoring by gifts and promises to win him over to his side. Scaurus, moved by a gift of 400 talents, decided in favor of Aristobulus and ordered Aretas to withdraw his army. During his retreat, the Nabateans suffered a crushing defeat at the hands of Aristobulus. \n\nWhen Pompey arrived in Syria in 63 BC, both brothers and a third party that desired the removal of the entire dynasty, sent their delegates to Pompey, who however delayed the decision. He favoured Hyrcanus II over Aristobulus II, deeming the elder, weaker brother a more reliable ally of the Roman Empire.\n\nPompey defeated the Jewish armies in multiple battles, and took the fortresses of Judea. Aristobulus and his sons Alexander and Antigonus were captured in 63 BC. Aristobulos, suspicious of Pompey, entrenched himself in the fortress of Alexandrium, but when the Romans defeated his army again, he surrendered and undertook to deliver Jerusalem over to them. However, since many of his followers were unwilling to open the gates, the Romans besieged and captured the city by force, badly damaging city and temple. Hyrcanus was restored as High Priest, but deprived of political authority.\n\nAristobulus II escaped in 57 BC, instigating rebellion against Rome in Judea, until he was finally holed up by Aulus Gabinius, consul of the Roman province of Syria, in Machaerus. Marc Antony, commander of the cavalry under Gabinius, led several men to scale Aristobulus' fortifications and subdue his forces.\n\nTaken prisoner, Aristobulus was released by Julius Caesar in 49 BC in order to turn Judea against Pompey. He was on his way to Judaea with his son Alexander, when \"he was taken off by poison given him by those of Pompey's party\". His son Alexander was beheaded by the Roman commander Scipio at Antioch.\n\nHis son Antigonus led a rebellion against Rome, with help from the Parthians, and became king and high priest in 40 BC, but was defeated and killed by the Romans in 37 BC.\n\n"}
{"id": "20611922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20611922", "title": "Bioseparation of 1,3-propanediol", "text": "Bioseparation of 1,3-propanediol\n\nBioseparation of 1,3-propanediol is a biochemical process for production of 1,3-propanediol (PDO). PDO is an organic compound with many commercial applications. Conventionally, PDO is produced from crude oil products such as propylene or ethylene oxide. In recent years, however, companies such as DuPont are investing in the biological production of PDO using renewable feedstocks such as corn.\n\nIn May 2004, DuPont and Tate & Lyle announced that they would start up a joint venture to build a facility that produces polymers from renewable feedstock instead of petrochemicals. In particular, their goal was to design a fermentation system that converts corn sugar into PDO (propanediol manufactured in this way is referred to in the media as \"BioPDO\"). They argue that using such a bioprocess is more energy efficient than conventional petrochemical processes (conversion of propylene into propanediol) because the bioprocess has four advantages over the conventional process: smaller environmental footprint, lower operating costs, smaller capital investment, and greater sustainability due to use of renewable corn feedstock.\n\nBioPDO can be made by the bacterial fermentation of glycerol. However, DuPont has managed to engineer a strain of \"Escherichia coli\" (\"E. coli\"),<ref name=\"Patent WO 2004/101479\"></ref> a common bacterium, to allow industrial-scale production of 1,3-propanediol by fermentation of glucose. After the \"E. coli\" produce sufficient BioPDO product, DuPont uses a method to separate the BioPDO from the cellular broth that comes out of the bioreactor consisting of four steps: microfiltration and ultrafiltration, ion exchange, flash evaporation, and distillation.\n\nThe first of the two filtration steps, microfiltration, is used to remove the cells from the reactor broth. Ceramic filters are used because, although expensive, they can last for five to ten years. High temperatures have been found to increase the flux of liquid across the microfiltration membrane, so a minimum temperature of is specified. A series of three ultrafiltration membranes are used to filter out proteins with a molecular weight of 5,000 Daltons and higher. The feed pressure to the microfiltration membrane is typically 65 psia with a transmembrane pressure drop of 40 psia. The feed pressure to each ultrafiltration membrane is 60 psia. Using these feed pressures and temperatures, typical transmembrane liquid fluxes are 108 LMH (liters per hour per square meter) for the microfiltration membrane, and 26 LMH for the ultrafiltration membrane.\n\nThe next step of the scheme, ion exchange, removes impurities that cause the downstream polymer product to turn yellow. Four ion exchange columns in series are used to remove these impurities, and they are arranged in the following order:\n\nThe first cationic exchanger replaces the divalent cations in solution with hydrogen ions. The first anionic exchanger replaces the anions in solution with hydroxide ions. The second cationic and anionic exchangers further reduce ion levels in solution. Note that hydrogen ions (H spontaneously react with hydroxide ions (OH) to form water (HO):\n\nAfter the ion exchange step, excess water is produced from the hydrogen and hydroxide ions, and that can dilute the product to less than 10% concentration by weight. By sending the dilute solution to an evaporation system under vacuum, water will flash out of the solution into low-pressure steam, leaving a propanediol solution with up to 80% propanediol by weight. The low-pressure steam is then compressed to a higher pressure and temperature, and afterward directed to the outer casing of the flash evaporation unit to heat the system.\n\nThe final step of the scheme, distillation, comprises two distillation columns, and optionally four distillation columns. The three main types of chemicals in the fluid at this stage of the separation are water, BioPDO, and impurities such as glycerol, sugars, and proteins. Of the three chemicals water has the lowest boiling point (see the water, 1,3-propanediol, and glycerol articles for boiling point information), so it is removed as distillate in the first column. The bottoms of the first column is then sent to a second column, where BioPDO is removed as distillate because of its lower boiling point. Both columns operate under low pressure (55 mm Hg in the first column; 20 mm Hg in the second column) to lower the boiling points of the distillate and bottoms streams, thereby using a lower pressure steam than that for atmospheric columns. At this point, the BioPDO stream has 99% purity. If the BioPDO is to be used for polymer production, however, then greater purity is required. To achieve greater purity, the BioPDO distillate of the second column is sent to a hydrogenation reactor to convert the remaining polymer-coloring impurities into non-coloring chemicals. The effluent of the reactor is then sent to a second set of two distillation columns that operate the same way as the first set of columns. The BioPDO distillate of the fourth distillation column has a purity of 99.97%, which is able to meet polymer- and fiber-grade standards.\n\nAccording to DuPont, the BioPDO process uses 40% less energy than conventional processes. DuPont also claims that the bioprocess reduces greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, and that the production of one hundred million pounds of BioPDO annually \"saves the energy equivalent of fifteen million gallons of gasoline per year\". Because of DuPont and Tate & Lyle's success in developing a renewable BioPDO process, the American Chemical Society awarded the BioPDO research teams the \"2007 Heroes of Chemistry\" award.\n"}
{"id": "42838550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42838550", "title": "Charles Joseph d'Ailleboust des Muceaux", "text": "Charles Joseph d'Ailleboust des Muceaux\n\nCharles Joseph d'Ailleboust des Muceaux (between 1623 and 1626 – November 20, 1700) was a soldier, merchant and judge in New France. He served as acting governor of Montreal from 1651 to 1653. He was a member of the Communauté des Habitants and of the Société Notre-Dame de Montréal.\n\nThe son of Nicolas d'Ailleboust de La Madeleine et de Coulonges and Dorothée de Manthet, he was born in France and came to Canada with his uncle Louis d'Ailleboust, the newly appointed governor, in August 1648. In 1652, he married Catherine, the daughter of Pierre Legardeur de Repentigny. He was lieutenant of the Montreal garrison in 1663. Des Muceaux served as the civil and criminal judge of Montreal from 1666 to 1677. He died at Montreal in 1700.\n"}
{"id": "15469822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15469822", "title": "Chekannur Maulavi", "text": "Chekannur Maulavi\n\nChekannur P. K. Mohammed Abul Hassan Maulavi (born in 1936) was a progressive Islamic cleric who lived in Edappal, in the Malappuram district of Kerala, India. He disappeared on 29 July 1993 and may be dead.\n\nSon of Abdullakutty and Fathima, Maulavi was born in 1936 and studied Islamic theology and Arabic at Baqiyathu Sallihath in Vellor, and at Vazhakkad Darul Ulloom.\n\nAlthough he became a religious teacher at the age of 24, his \"incompatible\" progressive views caused him to leave three teaching assignments in Arabic colleges in Kerala. He began thereafter to spread his own revolutionary ideals, in which he directly based his interpretation of Islam on the Quran, paying little attention to conventional wisdom or ahadith. \n\nHe argued that the Quran alone was true and that many ahadith were written to malign the prophet himself. He rejected those narrated by Abu Hurairah (who is the most prolific among the narrators of hadith) which he claimed were corrupt.\n\nHis controversial teachings — especially on subjects such as Muslim personal law, women's rights and the proper methods for praying — drew considerable attention and, from religious orthodoxy and extremist fringe groups, disapproval.\n\nHe has authored eighteen books including an incomplete Malayalam translation of the Quran. His followers have founded the Khur'aan Sunnath Society to spread his thoughts and ideas.\n\nMaulavi was last seen on 29 July 1993 when, according to his wife Howah Umma, he left his home to deliver a speech with two unidentified people in a vehicle that did not have a number plate. Following a complaint by his wife and uncle Salim Haji, an investigation was launched that also drew considerable public attention, leading to a reward of Rs 300,000 being offered by police for information related to the case.\n\nThe CBI took over the case in 1996, and in 2000 arrested two members of the ultra orthodox Muslim sect, which is linked to Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliyar, under suspicion of murder. By 2005, ten people were accused of the murder.\n\nThe case was hampered by the disappearance of a number of witnesses, whose property was seized when they fled abroad rather than appear to testify in 2008.\n\nMaulavi's wife filed a petition seeking to arraign Kanthapuram Aboobacker Musaliyar as a murder suspect through her lawyer, Advocate S.K. Premraj which was allowed. The Kerala High Court set aside the order, which was challenged in the Supreme Court. Though elaborate arguments were advanced by Advocate S.K. Premraj before the Supreme Court, Kanthapuram who was defended by the legal stalwart Harish Salve ultimately won the legal battle.\n\nOn 30 September 2010, the CBI special court in Kochi sentenced V. V. Hamsa, the first accused in the murder of Chekannur Maulavi, to double life imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 100,000. Stating that the Maulavi case was a rare case, the prosecution had demanded the death sentence. Pronouncing the verdict, Special Court judge S. Vijaykumar said, of the fine amount, that Rs. 50,000 should be given to Maulavi's wife. The other eight accused were acquitted.\n\nThe court found that Maulavi's body was disposed of in some mysterious manner so as never to be recovered.\n\nHis life and disappearance are the subject of a documentary, \"Ore Oru Chekannur\", for which filming began in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1681334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1681334", "title": "Cobra-La", "text": "Cobra-La\n\nCobra-La is a fictional civilization created by Hasbro for the military-themed toyline and TV series . Introduced to the public in \"\" and the 1987 series of action figures, Cobra-La was created as a reference to James Hilton's \"Lost Horizon\", and the name itself is likely a pun on Shangri-La. It was originally meant as a working name, but Hasbro liked the name so much that it remained.\n\n\n\nCobra-La made their first comics appearance in the \"G.I. Joe vs. the Transformers\" series from Devil's Due Publishing, holders of the G.I. Joe license. They first appeared in the second crossover, springing Cobra scientist Doctor Mindbender from jail. They would reappear in the fourth crossover \"Black Horizon\", with a much-expanded back story.\n\nAlthough the series does not directly reveal their origins, it does reveal the reason for their secrecy. Believed to be the children of an old god who was worshipped by early humans, the creatures found themselves confronted by another creature who was also believed to be a god; Unicron, the Chaos-Bringer, had come to Earth to devour it so he could feed his own hunger. Cobra-La opposed him, threatening to attack him with a metal-devouring organic spore. Before the two sides could annihilate each other, an agreement was reached favoring both parties. The creatures would go into hiding, allowing humanity to develop. Then, when they had reached a sufficient technological level so they could serve as slaves for the Chaos-Bringer's inner workings, the creatures would call Unicron. He would destroy the remainder of humanity and Cobra-La would inherit the human-free world he left behind.\n\nThousands of years later the pact would be kept, and the creatures, now calling themselves Cobra-La, would summon Unicron via a beacon, using Bludgeon and his team of Decepticon mercenaries to kill all interlopers, including Autobots from Cybertron. They also have an unusual captive - Joe Colton, the original G.I. Joe. Here they are also led by Golobulus. They attempted to sacrifice Firewall to Unicron, but they are stopped by an escaped Colton, Hawk and Autobot leader Optimus Prime. Golobulus attacks Hawk as he attempts to free Firewall, while Colton battles Nemesis Enforcer. Ranting about how he intends to destroy the mechanical Transformers, Golobulus is then crushed by Prime's fist. Pythona has a change of heart and kills the Enforcer. With Unicron defeated by Cosmos and Flint, Cobra-La are detained by the rest of G.I. Joe.\n\nThe Coil, Cobra's religious wing, worships a god named Gol Lobulas, a celestial serpent-being who brings order. Gol Lobulas once ruled a great paradise called Cobra-La, but human arrogance and ignorance forced the Serpent underground and ruined humanity with disharmony and individuality. However, champions of the Serpent have arisen to try and reverse this, and Serpentor, the Final Disciple, combines the best traits of all these past warriors. Serpentor, the Final Disciple touched by Gol Lobulas himself, combines all the best traits from these past champions. (In Coil doctrine, the enemies of their deity are philosophers and scientists, and the champions are dictators like Napoleon and Genghis Khan.)\n\nLittle is known of the history of Cobra-La in \"\", save for the fact that they dominated much of the Earth in the years before the Ice Age. Their way of life is based on a symbiotic relationship with nature: living creatures comprise their machines, vehicles, clothes and more, particularly massive mutant insectoids and serpents, from which they are descended. The weakness inherent in this technology, however, soon became apparent when the Ice Age began and destroyed much of what Cobra-La had built. Retreating into a massive cavern beneath the Himalayas, with the intention of emerging to retake the world when the Ice Age had passed, the Cobra-Lavians were shocked to discover that the primitive barbarians whom they had left on the surface had managed to survive and flourish, evolving in body and mind and developing inorganic technology, the complete antithesis of Cobra-La.\n\nIn order to retake the Earth, Golobulus chooses a nobleman who had been scarred in a laboratory accident (which gave him additional eyes), to go forth from Cobra-La into the human world. This nobleman's mission was to raise an army that would conquer the world, paving the way for the return of Cobra-La. That army was Cobra, and the nobleman became known as Cobra Commander. After Cobra Commander's repeated failures in this task, Golobulus sets into motion a plan to replace him. Using a \"psychic motivator\" to implant information into the brain of Cobra's top scientist Doctor Mindbender, Golobulus has the unwitting scientist genetically engineer the perfect warrior from DNA samples of history's greatest rulers. This creation who is called Serpentor proceeds to take control of Cobra from Cobra Commander.\n\nGolobulus then sends Pythona to the Terror Drome, to have a private conversation with Serpentor (whom Serpentor had seen in his dreams). Cobra-La guards headed up by Pythona and Nemesis Enforcer then capture Cobra Commander, Serpentor, and all the other Cobra members with them, and take them to their hidden headquarters inside the Himalayas. Golobulus puts Cobra Commander on trial for his repeated failures, and puts Serpentor in his place as a leader of the serpent world to come. Cobra Commander becomes a test subject for special mutating spores, which devolve him into a large snake following his trial. These spores are to be spread around the Earth, in order to de-evolve humanity back \"to the level of mindless beasts\" (as described by Pythona to Serpentor). Following a large-scale battle between the forces of G.I. Joe versus Cobra and Cobra-La forces, Cobra-La is in ruins and their plan is eventually foiled. Pythona is defeated by Jinx, and Nemesis Enforcer meets his doom at the hands of Sgt. Slaughter, when they are both thrown into a spike-walled pit, but Golobulus escapes.\n\nDuring the final battle, Golobulus abandons his pod briefly to make full use of his lower body during combat. According to his commentary for the Shout Factory DVD release of \"G.I. Joe: The Movie\", Buzz Dixon originally envisioned Golobulus to be a very corpulent figure, which would have made it a surprise when he is able to attack Lt. Falcon with such speed. Also stated that Golobulus was killed in the avalanche off screen. \n\nGolobulus, the Royal Guard, and Nemesis Enforcer were all released as action figures in 1987, in a Cobra-La three-pack. Golobulus is the only G.I. Joe figure that does not have traditional legs, as he has a long snake-like tail. Golobulus' only accessory was a red rifle. Nemesis Enforcer's only accessories were two backpacks, dark gray wings and green tentacles (which is never demonstrated in the movie). The Royal Guard came with a grey handgun, a silver scythe, and a red antenna.\n\nNemesis Enforcer was renamed Nemesis Immortal and released in 2008, as part of the 25th Anniversary in a two pack with Lt. Falcon. He came with a red vest, a red belt, a red backpack, two blue bat wings, a green tentacle backpack, and a black display stand. The figure pack also included an original comic, issue #8 titled \"Lt. Falcon vs. Nemesis Immortal: Showdown at the Top of the World\", which is written by Larry Hama and featuring both characters. The story takes place in the Himalayas, the same location as the Movie. Lt. Falcon carries a wounded Dusty to their extraction site, concerned that Nemesis Immortal is still around. As the story continues, it focuses on Lt. Falcon battling Nemesis Immortal, so that the Joes can escape. Nemesis Immortal more closely resembles the movie incarnation of the character than the original Nemesis Enforcer figure, in both design and size.\n\nAt the 2012 San Diego Comic-Con, concept art for new figures of Golobulus, Royal Guard, Pythona, and a mutant-snake Cobra Commander appeared in a Hasbro display featuring cancelled toys.\n\nGolobulus also appeared as one of the \"bosses\" in the \"G.I. Joe\" video game by Taxan for the Nintendo Entertainment System.\n"}
{"id": "2958051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2958051", "title": "Community sentence", "text": "Community sentence\n\nCommunity sentence or alternative sentencing or non-custodial sentence is a collective name in criminal justice for all the different ways in which courts can punish a defendant who has been convicted of committing an offence, other than through a custodial sentence (serving a jail or prison term) or capital punishment (death).\n\nTraditionally, the theory of retributive justice is based on the ideas of retaliation (punishment), which is valuable in itself, and also provides deterrent. Before the police, sentences of execution or imprisonment were thought pretty efficient at this, while at the same time removing the threat criminals pose to the public (protection). Alternative sentences add to these goals, trying to reform the offender (rehabilitation), and put right what he did (reparation).\n\nTraditionally, victims of a crime only played a small part in the criminal justice process, as this breaching the rules of the society. The restorative approach to justice approach often makes it a part of a sentence for the offender to apologize, compensate the damage they have caused or repair it with their own labour.\n\nThe shift towards alternative sentencing means that some offenders avoid imprisonment with its many unwanted consequences. This is beneficial for the society, as it may prevent them from getting into the so-called the revolving door syndrome, the inability of a person to go back to normal life after leaving a prison, becoming a career criminal. Furthermore, there are hopes that this could alleviate prison overcrowding and reduce the cost of punishment.\n\nInstead of depriving those who commit less dangerous offences (such as summary offences) of their freedom, the courts put some limitations on them and give them some duties. The list of components that make up a community sentence is of course different in individual countries, and will be combined individually by the court. Non-custodial sentences can include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56016131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56016131", "title": "CryptoKitties", "text": "CryptoKitties\n\nCryptoKitties is a blockchain based video game developed by Axiom Zen that allows players to purchase, collect, breed and sell various types of virtual cats. It represents one of the earliest attempts to deploy blockchain technology for recreational and leisurely purposes. The game's popularity in December 2017 congested the Ethereum network, causing it to reach an all-time high in transactions and slow down significantly.\n\nCryptoKitties is not a cryptocurrency. Instead it operates on Ethereum's underlying blockchain network, as a non fungible token (NFT) unique to each CryptoKitty. Each CryptoKitty is unique and owned by the user, validated through the blockchain, and its value can appreciate or depreciate based on the market. CryptoKitties cannot be replicated and cannot be transferred without the user's permission even by the game developers. Users can interact with their CryptoKitties, having the ability to buy, sell, and sire (breed) them. A test version of CryptoKitties was unveiled at ETH Waterloo on October 19, 2017, the largest Ethereum hackathon in the world. As of December 2, 2017, Genesis, the first and highest selling cat was sold for 246.9255 ETH (~$117,712 USD) on that day.\n\nThe virtual cats are breedable and carry a unique number and 256 bit distinct genome with DNA and different attributes (cattributes) that can be passed to offspring. Several traits can be passed down from the parents to the offspring. These include pattern, mouth (shape), fur, eye shape, base color, accent color, highlight color, eye color, and optional wild and environment characteristics. Other features like cool down times are not passed down but are instead a function of the 'generation' of the offspring, which is one higher than the maximum generation between the two parents. In December 2017 a CryptoKitty sold for $100,000.\n\nOn March 20, 2018, it was announced that \"CryptoKitties\" would be spun off into its own company and raised $12 million from several top venture capital firms and angel investors. The investment round was led by New York based Union Square Ventures and San Francisco based Andreessen Horowitz.\n\nIn May 2018, \"CryptoKitties\" launched their first celebrity-branded CryptoKitty with Stephen Curry, an American professional basketball player. As part of the partnership, Curry was given three CryptoKitties with special imagery, the first of which he put up for auction. The company later suspended the auction, claiming that Stephen Curry wasn't as involved as they initially thought. The company was later sued for trade secret theft over the Stephen Curry collectibles.\n\nIn October 2018, \"CryptoKitties\" reached the milestone of 1 million cats being bred with a volume of 3.2 million transactions on its smart contracts. In November 2018, Dapper Labs, which was spun out of Axiom Zen as the developer of \"CryptoKitties\", raised an additional $15 million in a venture round led by Venrock.The company doubled its valuation in this round.\n\nIn 2018 \"CryptoKitties\" will help the German museum ZKM Center for Art and Media Karlsruhe explain blockchain.\n\nA CryptoKitties' ownership is tracked via a smart contract on the Ethereum blockchain. CryptoKitties are distributed automatically, via smart contract, at the rate of one every 15 minutes (672 per week) for one year. Each CryptoKitty is represented in the form of a non-fungible ERC-721 token, which allows for each entity to have specific cattributes.\n\nBased on the limited number of cats going into circulation and their limited genomes, there is a limit of 4 billion total cats that can be bred. Each cat will have a distinct visual appearance (\"phenotype\") determined by its immutable genes (\"genotype\") stored in the smart contract. Because cats are tokens on a blockchain, they can be bought, sold, or transferred digitally, with strong guarantees of ownership. A CryptoKitty does not have a permanently assigned gender. While they can only engage in one breeding session at one time, each cat is able to act as either matron or sire. The owner chooses with each breeding interaction.\n\nA group known as Axiom Zen innovation studio developed the game. Until November 2018, Axiom Zen intends to continually release a new CryptoKitty every 15 minutes, with the rest of supply determined by breeding of CryptoKitties. CryptoKitty owners may put them up for sale via an auction for a price set in Ether (ETH).\n\nThere are concerns that \"CryptoKitties\" is crowding out more serious, significant business that use the Ethereum platform. As of December 5, 2017 Etherscan has reported a sixfold increase in pending transactions on Ethereum since the game's release just a week earlier. \"\"CryptoKitties\" has become so popular that it's taking up a significant amount of available space for transactions on the Ethereum platform\", said Garrick Hileman, from the University of Cambridge. Ethereum miners increased the gas limit in response to \"CryptoKitties\", which allowed for more data per block and increasing transactions per second.\n\n"}
{"id": "1274785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1274785", "title": "Cycadales", "text": "Cycadales\n\nCycadales is an order of seed plants that includes all the extant cycads. These plants typically have a stout and woody (ligneous) trunk with a crown of large, hard and stiff, evergreen leaves. They usually have pinnate leaves. The individual plants are either all male or all female (dioecious). Cycads vary in size from having trunks only a few centimeters to several meters tall. They typically grow very slowly and live very long, with some specimens known to be as much as 1,000 years old. Because of the superficial resemblance, they are sometimes confused with and mistaken for palms or ferns, but are only distantly related to either.\n\nCycadales are found across much of the subtropical and tropical parts of the world. They are found in South and Central America (where the greatest diversity occurs), Mexico, the Antilles, southeastern United States, Australia, Melanesia, Micronesia, Japan, China, Southeast Asia, India, Sri Lanka, Madagascar, and southern and tropical Africa, where at least 65 species occur. Some can survive in harsh semidesert climates (xerophytic), others in wet rain forest conditions, and some in both. Some can grow in sand or even on rock, some in oxygen-poor, swampy, bog-like soils rich in organic material, and some in both. Some are able to grow in full sun, some in full shade, and some in both. Some are salt tolerant (halophytes).\n\nCycadales belong to the biological division Cycadophyta along with the fossil order Medullosales. The three extant families of cycadales are Cycadaceae, Stangeriaceae, and Zamiaceae. Though they are a minor component of the plant kingdom today, during the Jurassic period, they were extremely common. They have changed little since the Jurassic, compared to some major evolutionary changes in other plant divisions.\n\nCycads are gymnosperms (naked seeded), meaning their unfertilized seeds are open to the air to be directly fertilized by pollination, as contrasted with angiosperms, which have enclosed seeds with more complex fertilization arrangements. Cycads have very specialized pollinators, usually a specific species of beetle. They have been reported to fix nitrogen in association with a cyanobacterium living in the roots. These blue-green algae produce a neurotoxin called BMAA that is found in the seeds of cycads. This neurotoxin may enter a human food chain as the cycad seeds may be eaten directly as a source of flour by humans or by wild or feral animals such as bats, and humans may eat these animals. It is hypothesized that this is a source of some neurological diseases in humans.\n\nCycads have a cylindrical trunk which usually does not branch.\nLeaves grow directly from the trunk, and typically fall when older, leaving a crown of leaves at the top. The leaves grow in a rosette form, with new foliage emerging from the top and center of the crown. The trunk may be buried, so the leaves appear to be emerging from the ground and the plant appears to be a basal rosette. The leaves are generally large in proportion to the trunk size, and sometimes even larger than the trunk.\n\nThe leaves are pinnate (in the form of bird feathers, pinnae), with a central leaf stalk from which parallel \"ribs\" emerge from each side of the stalk, perpendicular to it. The leaves are typically either compound (the leaf stalk has leaflets emerging from it as \"ribs\"), or have edges (margins) so deeply cut (incised) so as to appear compound. Some species have leaves that are bipinnate, which means the leaflets growing along the rachis each have their own subleaflets growing along a rachilla (self-similar geometry).\nAbout 306 species of living Cycadales have been described, in 10–12 genera and two or 3 families of cycads (depending on taxonomic viewpoint). The classification below is based upon a hierarchical structure based on cladistic analyses of morphological, anatomical, karyological, physiological and phytochemical data.\n\nThe number of species in the clade is low compared to the number in most other plant phyla. However, paleobotanical and molecular research indicates that the diversity was greater in the history of the phylum. The disparity in molecular sequences is very high between the three main lineages of cycads, implying that genetic diversity in the clade was once high.\n\nSome clearly defined cycad species can interbreed and produce fertile offspring.\n\n\nThe three families can be identified by looking at the central stalk of the leaf. Each family has at least one vein running up the leaf stalk from bottom to top (longitudinal). The Cycadaceae have only one vein in the center of the leaf stalk (central vein), but no veins on the stalklets of the leaflet (no lateral veins). The Stangeriaceae have only one central vein, but with lateral veins, also. The Zamiaceae have more than one central vein, and they are parallel to each other.\n\nStarch-rich cycad seeds were an important part of the diet of Aboriginal people in some regions of Australia. Prior to eating them, Aboriginal people used techniques such as roasting the seeds and then soaking the kernels for many days to wash out the poison.\n\nModern knowledge about cycads began in the 9th century with the recording by two Arab naturalists that the genus \"Cycas\" was used as a source of flour in India. Later, in the 16th century, Antonio Pigafetta, Fernão Lopes de Castanheda and Francis Drake found \"Cycas\" plants in the Moluccas, where the seeds were eaten. The first report of cycads in the New World was by Giovanni Lerio in his 1576 trip to Brazil, where he observed a plant named \"ayrius\" by the indigenous people; this species is now classified in the genus \"Zamia\".\n\nIn January 1697, Dutch sailors landed on the banks of the Swan River in Western Australia, part of the crew of the Nyptang, one of the ships in an expedition led by the Dutch navigator Willem de Vlamingh. They noticed palm-like plants with cones bearing large brightly coloured seeds. These were enticing and appeared to be a delicious change to a monotonous seafaring diet. Some of the sailors eagerly sampled the seeds and later wrote about the experience:\n\n“… I ate five or six [seeds] and drank some of the water from one of the aforesaid holes, but after an interval of about three hours I and five more of the others who had also eaten the said fruit began to vomit so violently that there was hardly any distinction between death and us.”\n\nIn August 1770, some British sailors passed the time on the banks of the Endeavour River in northern Queensland. They were part of the crew of the Endeavour voyage of James Cook and their ship has been badly damaged on a coral reef. The sailors noticed many palm-like plants growing nearby, some of which had large brownish seeds described as ‘nuts about the size of a large chestnut and rounder’ Thinking that the seeds were edible, some sailors tried them. A few hours later, these men suffered from painful stomach cramps and explosive vomiting. The ship’s captain later wrote in his journal:\n\n“… those who made the experiment paid dear for their knowledge of the contrary, for they [the seeds] operated as an emetic and cathartic with great violence…”\n\nPigs were taken on board the Endeavour in Tahiti as a source of fresh meat and, when they were fed cycad seeds, several of them died.\n\nThroughout the 18th-19th centuries, discoveries of several species were reported by numerous naturalist researchers and discoverers traveling throughout the world. One of the most notable researchers of cycads was American botanist C.J. Chamberlain whose work is noteworthy for the quantity of data and the novelty of his approach to studying cycads. His 15 years of travel throughout Africa, the Americas and Australia to observe cycads in their natural habitat resulted in his 1919 publication of \"The Living Cycads\" which remains current in its synthesis of taxonomy, morphology and reproductive biology of cycads, most of which was obtained from his original research. His 1940s monograph on the Cycadales, was never published.\n\nThe probable former range of cycads can be inferred from their global distribution. For example, the family Stangeriaceae only contains three extant species in Africa and Australia. Diverse fossils of this family have been dated to 135 mya, indicating that diversity may have been much greater before the Jurassic and late Triassic mass extinction events. However, the cycad fossil record is generally poor and little can be deduced about the effects of each mass extinction event on their diversity.\n\nInstead, correlations can be made between the number of extant gymnosperms and angiosperms. It is likely that cycad diversity was affected more by the great angiosperm radiation in the mid-Cretaceous than by extinctions. Very slow cambial growth was first used to define cycads, and because of this characteristic the group could not compete with the rapidly growing, relatively short-lived angiosperms, which now number over 250,000 species, compared to the 947 remaining gymnosperms.\n\nThe cycad fossil record dates to the early Permian, 280 million years ago (mya). There is controversy over older cycad fossils that date to the late Carboniferous period, 300–325  mya. One of the first colonizers of terrestrial habitats, this clade probably diversified extensively within its first few million years, although the extent to which it radiated is unknown because relatively few fossil specimens have been found. The regions to which cycads are restricted probably indicate their former distribution in the Pangea before the supercontinents Laurasia and Gondwana separated. Recent studies have indicated the common perception of existing cycad species as living fossils is largely misplaced, with only \"Bowenia\" dating to the Cretaceous or earlier. Although the cycad lineage itself is ancient, most extant species have evolved in the last 12 million years.\n\nThe family Stangeriaceae (named for Dr. William Stanger, 1811–1854), consisting of only three extant species, is thought to be of Gondwanan origin, as fossils have been found in Lower Cretaceous deposits in Argentina, dating to 70–135 mya. The family Zamiaceae is more diverse, with a fossil record extending from the middle Triassic to the Eocene (54–200 mya) in North and South America, Europe, Australia, and Antarctica, implying the family was present before the break-up of Pangea. The family Cycadaceae is thought to be an early offshoot, with fossils from Eocene deposits (38–54 mya) in Japan, China, and North America, indicating this family originated in Laurasia. \"Cycas\" is the only genus in the family and contains 99 species, the most of any cycad genus. Molecular data have recently shown \"Cycas\" species in Australasia and the east coast of Africa are recent arrivals, suggesting adaptive radiation may have occurred. The current distribution of cycads may be due to radiations from a few ancestral types sequestered on Laurasia and Gondwana, or could be explained by genetic drift following the separation of already evolved genera. Both explanations account for the strict endemism across present continental lines.\n\nOverall species diversity peaks at 17˚ 15\"N and 28˚ 12\"S, with a minor peak at the equator. There is therefore not a latitudinal diversity gradient towards the equator but towards the tropics. However, the peak in the northern tropics is largely due to \"Cycas\" in Asia and \"Zamia\" in the New World, whereas the peak in the southern tropics is due to \"Cycas\" again, and also to the diverse genus \"Encephalartos\" in southern and central Africa and \"Macrozamia\" in Australia. Thus, the distribution pattern of cycad species with latitude appears to be an artifact of the geographical isolation of cycad genera, and is dependent on the remaining species in each genus that did not follow the extinction pattern of their ancestors. \"Cycas\" is the only genus that has a broad geographical range and can thus be used to infer that cycads tend to live in the upper and lower tropics. This is probably because these areas have a drier climate with relatively cool winters; while cycads require some rainfall, they appear to be partly xerophytic.\n\nIn recent years, many cycads have been dwindling in numbers and may face risk of extinction because of theft and unscrupulous collection from their natural habitats, as well as from habitat destruction. TRAFFIC, the wildlife monitoring network are urging countries supplying the illegal trade in Cycads to implement a blanket ban on all species to prevent further wild extinctions.\n\nAbout 23% of the 305 extant cycad species are either critically endangered or endangered, and 15% are vulnerable. Thus, 38% of cycads are on the IUCN Red List (2004), and the other 62% are in the Least concern or Near Threatened category (i.e. not actually on the Red List), or are data deficient. This value has changed dramatically within the past few years; 46% of cycads were on the 1978 Red List, and this rose to 82% in 1997. This was largely due to the recent discovery of over 150 new species, disagreements about classification, and uncertainty. This has not been helpful for conservation planning for the group.\n\n\"Zamia\" in the New World, \"Cycas\" in Asia and \"Encephalartos\" in Africa are the most threatened genera. This pattern reflects the pressures on species in these regions. At least two species, \"Encephalartos woodii\" and \"Encephalartos relictus\" (both from Africa), are confirmed extinct in the wild. Cycads are long-lived with infrequent reproduction, and most populations are small, putting them at risk of extinction from habitat destruction and stochastic environmental events. Regionally, Australian cycads are the least at risk, as they are locally common and habitat fragmentation is low. However, land management with fire is thought to be a threat to Australian species. African cycads are rare and are thought to be naturally decreasing due to small population sizes, and there is controversy over whether to let natural extinction processes act on these cycads.\n\nAll cycads are in the CITES appendix appearing under the heading Plant Kingdom and under three family names, Cycadaceae, Stangeriaceae and Zamiaceae.\n\nAll cycads are CITES APPENDIX II except the following, in APPENDIX I:\n\nCycad seeds from species on APPENDIX II are not CITES regulated. APPENDIX I seeds are treated the same as the plants.\n\nIn Vanuatu, where the cycad is known by the Bislama name \"namele\", the tree has deep customary and spiritual significance. A single cycad leaf may be used as a taboo sign, while a pair of crossed cycad leaves is a peace sign and appears on the Vanuatu flag. The breaking off of fronds from a cycad leaf is used in traditional contexts as an aid to counting.\n\nCycad leaves are used to decorate venues during festivals, marriages and other community celebrations.\n\nCycads can be cut into pieces to make new plants, or by direct planting of the seeds. Propagation by seeds is the preferred method of growth, and two unique risks to their germination exist. One is that the seeds have no dormancy, so the embryo is biologically required to maintain growth and development, which means if the seed dries out, it dies. The second is that the emerging radicle and embryo can be very susceptible to fungal diseases in its early stages, when in unhygienic or excessively wet conditions. Thus, many cycad growers pregerminate the seeds in moist, sterile media such as vermiculite or perlite. However pregermination is not necessary, and many report success by directly planting the seeds in regular potting soil. As with many plants, a combination of well-drained soil, sunlight, water and nutrients will help it to prosper. Although, because of their hardy nature, cycads do not necessarily require the most tender or careful treatment, they can grow in almost any medium, including soilless ones. One of the most common causes of cycad death is from rotting stems and roots due to over-watering.\n\nSome insects, particularly scale insects, some weevils and chewing insects can damage cycads, though the pests are susceptible to insecticides such as the horticulture soluble oil white oil. Sometimes bacterial preparations may be used to control insect infestation on cycads. When some of the mature plants prepare for reproduction, though, the presence of weevils has been shown to help accomplish pollination.\n\nWhile the cycads have a reputation of slow growth, it is not always well-founded, and some actually grow quite fast, achieving reproductive maturity in 2–3 years (as with some \"Zamia\" species), while others in 15 years (as with some \"Cycas\", Australian \"Macrozamia\" and \"Lepidozamia\").\n\nThe starch obtained from the stems of certain species is still used as food by some indigenous tribes. Tribal people also grind and soak the seeds to remove the nerve toxins that may be present, making the food source generally safe to eat, although often not all the toxin is removed. In addition, consumers of bush meat may face a health threat as the meat comes from game which may have eaten cycad seeds and carry traces of the toxin in body fat.\n\nCycad, known as \"sotetsu\" (Jap. ソテツ, Kanji: 蘇鉄) in Japanese, was traditionally a famine food in Okinawa - a last resort to turn to for sustenance during particularly difficult times. A period of particularly devastating poverty and famine in the 1920s, caused in large part by Japanese economic policies in the island prefecture, is known as \"cycad hell\" or \"sotetsu jigoku\".\n\nCycad meal known as \"Eenthu\" in Malayalam is a common food in Kerala. Traditionally, the seeds were sliced and kept in direct sunlight or near the hearth during rainy season to promote drying. The drying process is carried out to reduce the toxin levels and as a means of preservation. The outer shell is subsequently removed and inner portion is ground into a flour. Properly dried cycad seed flour may be stored for several years without deterioration.\n\nFood items like \"Puttu, Eenthu kanji, Eenthu payasam\" etc. are made out of cycad seed powder.These food items are particularly prepared in heavy rainy seasons in Kerala.\n\nThere is some indication that the regular consumption of starch derived from cycads is a factor in the development of Lytico-Bodig disease, a neurological disease with symptoms similar to those of Parkinson's disease and ALS. Lytico-Bodic and its potential connection to cycasin ingestion is one of the subjects explored in Oliver Sacks' 1997 book \"Island of the Colourblind.\" Cattle that graze in pastures containing cycads may ingest the leaves and seeds and develop the neurologic syndrome of cycad toxicosis known as zamia staggers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51218146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51218146", "title": "Diana Walter", "text": "Diana Walter\n\nDiana Walter is a fictional character featured in the 2016 film \"Lights Out\", portrayed by Alicia Vela-Bailey and serving as the antagonist of the film. She is a vengeful ghost-like entity that attacks people in the dark.\n\nDiana is a mysterious figure that attacks people only in the dark. It is revealed she was a young teenager committed to a mental hospital, who also suffered from xeroderma pigmentosum, a serious skin condition that prevented her from being exposed to any light. She befriends teenaged Sophie, who was hospitalized for treatment for her depression. They take a picture together outside where she is covered in shadow by an umbrella. Doctors began performing experiments on Diana, but inadvertently killed her by exposing her to intense surgical-suite spotlights, instantly reducing her body to ashes.\n\nDiana then turns into a demonic, malevolent creature that can act only in the darkness. The creature latches onto Sophie, and kills anyone who tries to help or be with her. She interferes with Sophie's intentions of trying to get better, and frightens Sophie's young daughter Rebecca by taking her drawing of her family and inserting herself into it as a stick figure while rubbing out her father. Rebecca’s father flees the family, and Rebecca moves out as soon as she is old enough. Some years later, Diana appears at Sophie's second husband Paul's work place and kills him. She then haunts Sophie and Paul’s child, Martin, to the point that he is unable to get sleep anymore. When Martin is staying at Rebecca's, Diana goes there and haunts them, scratching onto the floor the same name and stick figure she added to Rebecca's childhood drawing.\n\nDiana continues to influence Sophie, who suggests a stay-in movie night with Martin, including Diana as \"the three of us\", in an attempt to proactively introduce her son to her demon friend. When Sophie tries to take her pills, Diana knocks them aside. Diana tries to pull Martin under the bed, but Rebecca stops her. She locks Rebecca and Martin in the basement, and attacks Rebecca's boyfriend Bret, who flees to get help. She ignores Sophie's pleas to not hurt her kids, and continues to attack in the dark, killing two police officers. However, as Diana is about to kill Rebecca, Sophie arrives and states that Diana only exists because Sophie has allowed her to exist. Sophie then shoots herself in the head, and Diana disappears.\n\nDavid said that his goal was to keep Diana's appearance in the film as a silhouette. When asked about how challenging it was to keep Diana in the dark he said \"Very challenging because I didn’t want to cheat. I had to storyboard all of it just to make sure that she was truly a silhouette. At first I was working with a storyboard artist. He would draw her with a rim light on her and I was like, “No, we can’t shoot it like that because that’s cheating.” So I had to do my own storyboards and really figure out how we could always keep her as a true silhouette. When she grabs Bret, I had to think about, “If he uses his flashlight like this to bang on the handle, if she grabs him when he’s up here, then the flashlight is pointed backwards creating a silhouette so that she can actually grab him.” It was really hard to figure out exactly how to get her on film.\" Diana was originally supposed to be more of a demonic presence but James Wan suggested that she have a human background so she could have a relationship to Sophie and add to the connection to the family.\n\nIn an interview, when asked about the casting of Diana, David said \"...I figured she would be pretty still but once I met Alicia, we met Alicia just to have her as a stunt person for whoever would play Diana. But when I met Alicia and she showed me what she could do, because she’s a dancer and she has full control over her body, it was like, 'Oh, this is really awesome. So let’s have Alicia play Diana the whole time and we can really turn her into this ferocious, animalistic creature almost.'”\n"}
{"id": "1083840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1083840", "title": "Digby Mackworth Dolben", "text": "Digby Mackworth Dolben\n\nDigby Augustus Stewart Mackworth Dolben (8 February 1848 – 28 June 1867) was an English poet who died young from drowning. He owes his poetic reputation to his cousin, Robert Bridges, poet laureate from 1913 to 1930, who edited a partial edition of his verse, \"Poems\", in 1911.\n\nHe was born in Guernsey, and brought up at Finedon Hall in Northamptonshire. His father, William Harcourt Isham Mackworth (1806—1872), a younger son of Sir Digby Mackworth, the 3rd Baronet, took the additional surname Dolben after he married Frances, the heiress of Sir John English Dolben, the 4th Baronet.\n\nHe was educated at Cheam School and Eton College, studying under the influential Master William Johnson Cory whose principles of pedagogy and collection of verses \"Ionica\" inspired his own poetry. At Eton, his distant cousin Bridges was his senior and took him under his wing.\n\nDolben caused considerable scandal at school by his exhibitionist behaviour. He marked his romantic attachment to another pupil a year older than he was, Martin Le Marchant Gosselin, by writing love poetry. He also defied his strict Protestant upbringing by joining a High Church Puseyite group of pupils. He then claimed allegiance to the Order of St Benedict, affecting a monk's habit. He was considering a conversion to Roman Catholicism.\n\nIn 1865 on his seventeenth birthday, he was introduced by Bridges, by then an undergraduate at Corpus Christi College, Oxford, to Gerard Manley Hopkins who was at Balliol. According to the account given by his biographer Norman White, this encounter greatly perturbed Hopkins.\n\nHopkins's biographer Robert Bernard Martin asserts that Hopkins’s meeting with Dolben, \"was, quite simply, the most momentous emotional event of [his] undergraduate years, probably of his entire life\".\nHopkins kept up a correspondence with Dolben, wrote about him in his diary and composed two poems about the youth, \"Where art thou friend\" and \"The Beginning of the End.\" Hopkins' High Anglican confessor seems to have forbidden him to have any contact with Dolben except by letter. Dolben's death greatly affected Hopkins, although his feeling for Dolben seems to have cooled by that time.\n\nDolben drowned in the River Welland when bathing with the ten-year-old son of his tutor, Rev. C. E. Prichard, Rector of South Luffenham. He was aged 19 and preparing to go up to Oxford.\n\nBridges guaranteed Dolben's reputation with \"Three Friends: Memoirs of Digby Mackworth Dolben, Richard Watson Dixon, Henry Bradley\" (1932), as well as the careful editing of his poetry. Subsequently, \"The Poems and Letters of Digby Mackworth Dolben 1848–1867\" (1981) has given a less selective picture.\n\nHopkins' infatuation for Dolben and Dolben's tragic death feature in Simon Edge's novel \"The Hopkins Conundrum\" (2017).\n\n"}
{"id": "18985866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18985866", "title": "Environmental impact of wind power", "text": "Environmental impact of wind power\n\nThe environmental impact of wind power when compared to the environmental impacts of fossil fuels, is relatively minor. Compared with other low carbon power sources, wind turbines have some of the lowest global warming potential per unit of electrical energy generated. According to the IPCC, in assessments of the life-cycle global warming potential of energy sources, wind turbines have a median value of between 15 and 11 (geq/kWh) depending on whether off- or onshore turbines are being assessed.\n\nWhile wind turbine installations may cover a large area, they are compatible with many land uses such as farming and grazing, as only small areas of turbine foundations and infrastructure are made unavailable for use.\n\nWind turbines generate some noise. At a residential distance of this may be around 45 dB, which is slightly louder than a refrigerator. At distance most wind turbines become inaudible. From a fundamental biological point of view, it is known that loud noise increases stress and stress causes diseases. Wind turbines do not affect human health from noise when properly placed. However, when improperly sited, data from the monitoring of two groups of growing geese revealed substantially lower body weights and higher concentrations of a stress hormone in the blood of the first group of geese who were situated 50 meters away compared to a second group which was at a distance of 500 meters from the turbine.\n\nAesthetic aspects of wind turbines and resulting changes of the visual landscape can be significant. Conflicts arise especially in scenic and heritage protected landscapes. Siting restrictions (such as setbacks) have often been implemented to limit any intrusive environmental impacts.\n\nThere are reports of bird and bat mortality at wind turbines as there are around other artificial structures. The scale of the ecological impact remains unclear. Prevention and mitigation of wildlife fatalities, and protection of peat bogs, affect the siting and operation of wind turbines.\n\nThe energy return on investment (EROI) for wind energy is equal to the cumulative electricity generated divided by the cumulative primary energy required to build and maintain a turbine. According to a meta study, in which all existing studies from 1977 to 2007 were reviewed, the EROI for wind ranges from 5 to 35, with the most common turbines in the range of 2 MW nameplate capacity-rotor diameters of 66 meters. On average the EROI is 16, but a paper by Weißbach et al. claimed that, including pump storage systems reduces the EROI for wind remarkably- to an order of magnitude worse than fossil fuels or nuclear power. However, this paper was rebutted by other scientists, who found serious methodological faults. EROI is strongly proportional to turbine size, and larger late-generation turbines average at the high end of this range, at or above 35. Wind turbine manufacturer Vestas claims that initial energy \"pay back\" is within about 7–9 months of operation for a 1.65-2.0MW wind power plant under low wind conditions, whereas Siemens Wind Power calculates 5–10 months depending on circumstances.\n\nWind power consumes no water for continuing operation, and has near negligible emissions directly related to its electricity production. Wind turbines when isolated from the electric grid produce negligible amounts of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, mercury and radioactive waste when in operation, unlike fossil fuel sources and nuclear energy station fuel production, respectively.\n\nWith the construction phase largely to blame, wind turbines emit slightly more particulate matter(PM), a form of air pollution, at an \"exception\" rate higher per unit of energy generated(kWh) than a fossil gas electricity station(\"NGCC\"), and also emit more heavy metals and PM than nuclear stations, per unit of energy generated. As far as total pollution costs in economic terms, in a comprehensive 2006 European study, alpine Hydropower was found to exhibit the lowest external pollution, or externality, costs of all electricity generating systems, below 0.05 c€/kWh. Wind power externality costs were found to be 0.09 - 0.12c€/kW, while nuclear energy had a 0.19 c€/kWh value and fossil fuels generated 1.6 - 5.8 c€/kWh of downstream costs. With the exception of the latter fossil fuels, these are negligible costs in comparison to the cost of electricity production, which is approximately 10 c€/kWh in European countries.\n\nA typical study of a wind farms Life cycle assessment, when not connected to the electric grid, usually results in similar findings as the following 2006 analysis of 3 installations in the US Midwest, where the carbon dioxide () emissions of wind power ranged from per GWh (14–33 g/kWh) of energy produced, with most of the emission intensity coming from producing the concrete for wind-turbine foundations. By combining similar data from numerous individual studies in a meta-analysis, the median global warming potential for wind power was found to be 11–12 g CO/kWh and unlikely to change significantly.\n\nHowever these relatively low pollution values begin to increase as greater and greater wind energy is added to the grid, or wind power 'electric grid penetration' levels are reached. Due to the effects of attempting to balance out the energy demands on the grid, from Intermittent power sources e.g. wind power(sources which have low capacity factors due to the weather), this either requires the construction of large energy storage projects, which have their own emission intensity which must be added to wind power's system-wide pollution effects, or it requires more frequent reliance on fossil fuels than the spinning reserve requirements necessary to back up more dependable sources. With the latter combination presently being the more common.\nThis higher dependence on back-up/Load following power plants to ensure a steady power grid output has the knock-on-effect of more frequent inefficient (in e g/kWh) throttling up and down of these other power sources in the grid to facilitate the intermittent power source's variable output. When one includes the total effect of intermittent sources on other power sources in the grid system, that is, including these inefficient start up emissions of backup power sources to cater for wind energy, into wind energy's total system wide life cycle, this results in a higher real-world wind energy emission intensity. Higher than the direct g/kWh value that is determined from looking at the power source in isolation and thus ignores all down-stream detrimental/inefficiency effects it has on the grid. \nThis higher dependence on back-up/Load following power plants to ensure a steady power grid output forces fossil power plants to operate in less efficient states. In a 2012 paper that appeared in the \"Journal of Industrial Ecology\" it states.\n\nIn comparison to other low carbon power sources Wind turbines, when assessed in isolation, have a median life cycle emission value of between 11 and 12 (geq/kWh). The more dependable alpine Hydropower and nuclear stations have median total life cycle emission values of 24 and 12 g CO-eq/kWh respectively.\n\nWhile an increase in emissions due to the practical issues of load balancing is an issue, Pehnt et al. still conclude that these 20 and 80 g CO-eq/kWh added penalties still result in wind being roughly ten times less polluting than fossil gas and coal which emit ~400 and 900 g CO-eq/kWh respectively.\n\nAs these losses occur due to cycling of fossil power plants, they may at some point become smaller when more than 20–30% of wind energy is added to the power grid, as fossil power plants are replaced, however this has yet to occur in practice.\n\nThe production of permanent magnets used in some wind turbines makes use of neodymium. Primarily exported by China, pollution concerns associated with the extraction of this rare-earth element have prompted government action in recent years, and international research attempts to refine the extraction process. Research is underway on turbine and generator designs which reduce the need for neodymium, or eliminate the use of rare-earth metals altogether. Additionally, the large wind turbine manufacturer Enercon GmbH chose very early not to use permanent magnets for its direct drive turbines, in order to avoid responsibility for the adverse environmental impact of rare-earth mining.\n\nWind farms are often built on land that has already been impacted by land clearing. The vegetation clearing and ground disturbance required for wind farms is minimal compared with coal mines and coal-fired power stations. If wind farms are decommissioned, the landscape can be returned to its previous condition.\n\nA study by the US National Renewable Energy Laboratory of US wind farms built between 2000 and 2009 found that, on average, only 1.1 percent of the total wind farm area suffered surface disturbance, and only 0.43 percent was permanently disturbed by wind power installations. On average, there were 63 hectares (156 acres) of total wind farm area per MW of capacity, but only 0.27 hectares (0.67 acres) of permanently disturbed area per MW of wind power capacity.\n\nIn the UK many prime wind farm sites - locations with the best average wind speeds - are in upland areas which are frequently covered by blanket bog. This type of habitat exists in areas of relatively high rainfall where large areas of land remain permanently sodden. Construction work may create a risk of disruption to peatland hydrology which could cause localised areas of peat within the area of a wind farm to dry out, disintegrate, and so release their stored carbon. At the same time, the warming climate which renewable energy schemes seek to mitigate could itself pose an existential threat to peatlands throughout the UK. A Scottish MEP campaigned for a moratorium on wind developments on peatlands saying that \"Damaging the peat causes the release of more carbon dioxide than wind farms save\". A 2014 report for the Northern Ireland Environment Agency noted that siting wind turbines on peatland could release considerable carbon dioxide from the peat, and also damage the peatland contributions to flood control and water quality: “The potential knock-on effects of using the peatland resource for wind turbines are considerable and it is arguable that the impacts on this facet of biodiversity will have the most noticeable and greatest financial implications for Northern Ireland.”\n\nWind-energy advocates contend that less than 1% of the land is used for foundations and access roads, the other 99% can still be used for farming. A wind turbine needs about 200–400 m² for the foundation. A (small) 500-kW-turbine with an annual production of 1.4 GWh produces 11.7 MWh/m², which is comparable with coal-fired plants (about 15-20 MWh/m²), coal-mining not included. With increasing size of the wind turbine the relative size of the foundation decreases. Critics point out that on some locations in forests the clearing of trees around tower bases may be necessary for installation sites on mountain ridges, such as in the northeastern U.S. This usually takes the clearing of 5,000 m² per wind turbine.\n\nTurbines are not generally installed in urban areas. Buildings interfere with wind, turbines must be sited a safe distance (\"setback\") from residences in case of failure, and the value of land is high. There are a few notable exceptions to this. The WindShare ExPlace wind turbine was erected in December 2002, on the grounds of Exhibition Place, in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It was the first wind turbine installed in a major North American urban city centre. Steel Winds also has a 20 MW urban project south of Buffalo, New York. Both of these projects are in urban locations, but benefit from being on uninhabited lake shore property.\n\nThe land can still be used for farming and cattle grazing. Livestock are unaffected by the presence of wind farms. International experience shows that livestock will \"graze right up to the base of wind turbines and often use them as rubbing posts or for shade\".\n\nIn 2014, a first of its kind Veterinary study attempted to determine the effects of rearing livestock near a wind turbine, the study compared the health effects of a wind turbine on the development of two groups of growing geese, preliminary results found that geese raised within 50 meters of a wind turbine gained less weight and had a higher concentration of the stress hormone cortisol in their blood than geese at a distance of 500 meters.\n\nSemi-domestic reindeer avoid the construction activity, but seem unaffected when the turbines are operating.\n\nEnvironmental assessments are routinely carried out for wind farm proposals, and potential impacts on the local environment (e.g. plants, animals, soils) are evaluated. Turbine locations and operations are often modified as part of the approval process to avoid or minimise impacts on threatened species and their habitats. Any unavoidable impacts can be offset with conservation improvements of similar ecosystems which are unaffected by the proposal.\n\nA research agenda from a coalition of researchers from universities, industry, and government, supported by the Atkinson Center for a Sustainable Future, suggests modeling the spatiotemporal patterns of migratory and residential wildlife with respect to geographic features and weather, to provide a basis for science-based decisions about where to site new wind projects. More specifically, it suggests:\n\nThe impact of wind energy on birds, which can fly into turbines directly, or indirectly have their habitats degraded by wind development, is complex. Projects such as the Black Law Wind Farm have received wide recognition for its contribution to environmental objectives, including praise from the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, who describe the scheme as both improving the landscape of a derelict opencast mining site and also benefiting a range of wildlife in the area, with an extensive habitat management projects covering over 14 square kilometres.\n\nThe meta-analysis on avian mortality by Benjamin K. Sovacool led him to suggest that there were a number of deficiencies in other researchers' methodologies. Among them, he stated were a focus on bird deaths, but not on the reductions in bird births: for example, mining activities for fossil fuels and pollution from fossil fuel plants have led to significant toxic deposits and acid rain that have damaged or poisoned many nesting and feeding grounds, leading to reductions in births. The large cumulated footprint of wind turbines, which reduces the area available to wildlife or agriculture, is also missing from all studies including Sovacool's. Many of the studies also made no mention of avian deaths per unit of electricity produced, which excluded meaningful comparisons between different energy sources. More importantly, it concluded, the most visible impacts of a technology, as measured by media exposure, are not necessarily the most flagrant ones.\n\nSovacool estimated that in the United States wind turbines kill between 20,000 and 573,000 birds per year, and although he regards either figure as minimal compared to bird deaths from other causes. He uses the lower 20,000 figure in his study and table (see \"Causes of avian mortality\" table) to arrive at a direct mortality rate per unit of energy generated figure of 0.269 per GWh for wind power. Fossil-fueled power plants, which wind turbines generally require to make up for their weather dependent intermittency, kill almost 20 times as many birds per gigawatt hour (GWh) of electricity according to Sovacool. Bird deaths due to other human activities and cats total between 797 million and 5.29 billion per year in the U.S. Additionally, while many studies concentrate on the analysis of bird deaths, few have been conducted on the reductions of bird births, which are the additional consequences of the various pollution sources that wind power partially mitigates.\n\nOf the bird deaths Sovacool attributed to fossil-fuel power plants, 96 percent were due to the effects of climate change. While the study did not assess bat mortality due to various forms of energy, he considered it not unreasonable to assume a similar ratio of mortality. The Sovacool study has provoked controversy because of its treatment of data. In a series of replies, Sovacool acknowledged a number of large errors, particularly those that relate to his earlier \"0.33 to 0.416\" fatalities overestimate for the number of bird deaths per GWh of nuclear power, and cautioned that \"the study already tells you the numbers are very rough estimates that need to be improved.\"\n\nA 2013 meta-analysis by Smallwood identified a number of factors which result in serious under-reporting of bird and bat deaths by wind turbines. These include inefficient searches, inadequate search radius, and carcass removal by predators. To adjust the results of different studies, he applied correction factors from hundreds of carcass placement trials. His meta-analysis concluded that in 2012 in the United States, wind turbines resulted in the deaths of 888,000 bats and 573,000 birds, including 83,000 birds of prey.\n\nAlso in 2013, a meta-analysis by Scott Loss and others in the journal \"Biological Conservation\" found that the likely mean number of birds killed annually in the U.S by monopole tower wind turbines was 234,000. The authors acknowledged the larger number reported by Smallwood, but noted that Smallwood’s meta-analysis did not distinguish between types of wind turbine towers. The monopole towers used almost exclusively for new wind installations have mortality rates that \"increase with increasing height of monopole turbines\", but as of yet, it remains to be determined if increasingly taller monopole towers result in lower mortality per GWh.\n\nBird mortality at wind energy facilities can vary greatly depending on the location, construction, and height, with some facilities reporting zero bird fatalities, and others as high as 9.33 birds per turbine per year. A 2007 article in the journal \"Nature\" stated that each wind turbine in the U.S. kills an average of 0.03 birds per year, and recommends that more research needs to be done.\n\nA comprehensive study of wind turbine bird deaths by the Canadian Wildlife Service in 2013 analyzed reports from 43 out of the 135 wind farms operating across Canada as of December 2011. After adjusting for search inefficiencies, the study found an average of 8.2 bird deaths per tower per year, from which they arrived at a total of 23,000 per year for Canada at that time. Actual habitat loss averaged 1.23 hectares per turbine, which involved the direct loss of, on average, 1.9 nesting sites per turbine. The effective habitat loss, which was not quantified, was observed to be highly variable between species: some species avoided nesting within 100 to 200 m from turbines, while other species were observed feeding on the ground directly under the blades. The study concluded that, overall, the combined effect on birds was “relatively small” compared to other causes of bird mortality, but noted that mitigation measures might be required in some situations to protect at-risk species.\n\nWind facilities have attracted the most attention for impacts on iconic raptor species, including golden eagles. The Pine Tree Wind energy project near Tehachapi, California has one of the highest raptor mortality rates in the country; by 2012 at least eight golden eagles had been killed according to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). Biologists have noted that it is more important to avoid losses of large birds as they have lower breeding rates and can be more severely impacted by wind turbines in certain areas.\n\nLarge numbers of bird deaths are also attributed to collisions with buildings. An estimated 1 to 9 million birds are killed every year by tall buildings in Toronto, Ontario, Canada alone, according to the wildlife conservation organization Fatal Light Awareness Program. Other studies have stated that 57 million are killed by cars, and some 365 to 988 million are killed by collisions with buildings and plate glass in the United States alone. Promotional event lightbeams as well as ceilometers used at airport weather offices can be particularly deadly for birds, as birds become caught in their lightbeams and suffer exhaustion and collisions with other birds. In the worst recorded ceilometer lightbeam kill-off during one night in 1954, approximately 50,000 birds from 53 different species died at the Warner Robins Air Force Base in the United States.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) concluded that \"The available evidence suggests that appropriately positioned wind farms do not pose a significant hazard for birds.\" It notes that climate change poses a much more significant threat to wildlife, and therefore supports wind farms and other forms of renewable energy as a way to mitigate future damage. In 2009 the RSPB warned that \"numbers of several breeding birds of high conservation concern are reduced close to wind turbines\" probably because \"birds may use areas close to the turbines less often than would be expected, potentially reducing the wildlife carrying capacity of an area.\n\nConcerns have been expressed that wind turbines at Smøla, Norway are having a deleterious effect on the population of white-tailed eagles, Europe's largest bird of prey. They have been the subject of an extensive re-introduction programme in Scotland, which could be jeopardised by the expansion of wind turbines.\n\nThe Peñascal Wind Power Project in Texas is located in the middle of a major bird migration route, and the wind farm uses avian radar originally developed for NASA and the United States Air Force to detect birds as far as away. If the system determines that the birds are in danger of running into the rotating blades, the turbines shut down and are restarted when the birds have passed. A 2005 Danish study used surveillance radar to track migrating birds traveling around and through an offshore wind farm. Less than 1% of migrating birds passing through an offshore wind farm in Rønde, Denmark, got close enough to be at risk of collision, though the site was studied only during low-wind conditions. The study suggests that migrating birds may avoid large turbines, at least in the low-wind conditions the research was conducted in. Furthermore, it is not thought that nocturnal migrants are at higher risk to collision than diurnally active species.\n\nIn 2012, researchers reported that, based on their four-year radar tracking study of birds after construction of an offshore wind farm near Lincolnshire, that pink-footed geese migrating to the U.K. to overwinter altered their flight path to avoid the turbines.\n\nAt the Altamont Pass Wind Farm in California, a settlement between the Audubon Society, Californians for Renewable Energy and NextEra Energy Resources who operate some 5,000 turbines in the area requires the latter to replace nearly half of the smaller turbines with newer, more bird-friendly models by 2015 and provide $2.5 million for raptor habitat restoration. The proposed Chokecherry and Sierra Madre Wind Energy Project in Wyoming is allowed by the Bureau of Land Management to \"take\" up to 16 eagles per year as predicted by the Fish and Wildlife Service, while making powerlines less damaging. A 2012 BLM study estimated nearly 5,400 birds each year, including over 150 raptors. Some sites are required to watch for birds.\n\nBats may be injured by direct impact with turbine blades, towers, or transmission lines. Recent research shows that bats may also be killed when suddenly passing through a low air pressure region surrounding the turbine blade tips.\n\nThe numbers of bats killed by existing onshore and near-shore facilities have troubled bat enthusiasts.\n\nIn April 2009 the Bats and Wind Energy Cooperative released initial study results showing a 73% drop in bat fatalities when wind farm operations are stopped during low wind conditions, when bats are most active. Bats avoid radar transmitters, and placing microwave transmitters on wind turbine towers may reduce the number of bat collisions.\n\nA 2013 study produced an estimate that wind turbines killed more than 600,000 bats in the U.S. the previous year, with the greatest mortality occurring in the Appalachian Mountains. Some earlier studies had produced estimates of between 33,000 and 888,000 bat deaths per year.\n\nWind farms may affect weather in their immediate vicinity. This turbulence from spinning wind turbine rotors increases vertical mixing of heat and water vapor that affects the meteorological conditions downwind, including rainfall. Overall, wind farms lead to a slight warming at night and a slight cooling during the day time. This effect can be reduced by using more efficient rotors or placing wind farms in regions with high natural turbulence. Warming at night could \"benefit agriculture by decreasing frost damage and extending the growing season. Many farmers already do this with air circulators\".\n\nA number of studies have used climate models to study the effect of extremely large wind farms. One study reports simulations that show detectable changes in global climate for very high wind farm usage, on the order of 10% of the world's land area. Wind power has a negligible effect on global mean surface temperature, and it would deliver \"enormous global benefits by reducing emissions of and air pollutants\". Another peer-reviewed study suggested that using wind turbines to meet 10 percent of global energy demand in 2100 could actually have a warming effect, causing temperatures to rise by in the regions on land where the wind farms are installed, including a smaller increase in areas beyond those regions. This is due to the effect of wind turbines on both horizontal and vertical atmospheric circulation. Whilst turbines installed in water would have a cooling effect, the net impact on global surface temperatures would be an increase of . Author Ron Prinn cautioned against interpreting the study \"as an argument against wind power, urging that it be used to guide future research\". \"We’re not pessimistic about wind,\" he said. \"We haven’t absolutely proven this effect, and we’d rather see that people do further research\".\n\nAesthetic considerations of wind power stations have often a significant role in their evaluation process. To some, the perceived aesthetic aspects of wind power stations may conflict with the protection of historical sites. Wind power stations are less likely to be perceived negatively in urbanized and industrial regions. Aesthetic issues are subjective and some people find wind farms pleasant or see them as symbols of energy independence and local prosperity. While studies in Scotland predict wind farms will damage tourism, in other countries some wind farms have themselves become tourist attractions, with several having visitor centers at ground level or even observation decks atop turbine towers.\n\nIn the 1980s, wind energy was being discussed as part of a soft energy path. Renewable energy commercialization led to an increasing industrial image of wind power, which is being criticized by various stakeholders in the planning process, including nature protection associations. Newer wind farms have larger, more widely spaced turbines, and have a less cluttered appearance than older installations. Wind farms are often built on land that has already been impacted by land clearing and they coexist easily with other land uses.\n\nCoastal areas and areas of higher altitude such as ridgelines are considered prime for wind farms, due to constant wind speeds. However, both locations tend to be areas of high visual impact and can be a contributing factor in local communities' resistance to some projects. Both the proximity to densely populated areas and the necessary wind speeds make coastal locations ideal for wind farms.\nWind power stations can impact on important sight relations which are a key part of culturally important landscapes, such as in the Rhine Gorge or Moselle valley. Conflicts between heritage status of certain areas and wind power projects have arisen in various countries. In 2011 UNESCO raised concerns regarding a proposed wind farm 17 kilometres away from the French island abbey of Mont-Saint-Michel. In Germany, the impact of wind farms on valuable cultural landscapes has implications on zoning and land-use planning. For example, sensitive parts of the Moselle valley and the background of the Hambach Castle, according to the plans of the state government, will be kept free of wind turbines.\n\nWind turbines require aircraft warning lights, which may create light pollution. Complaints about these lights have caused the US FAA to consider allowing fewer lights per turbine in certain areas. Residents near turbines may complain of \"shadow flicker\" caused by rotating turbine blades, when the sun passes behind the turbine. This can be avoided by locating the wind farm to avoid unacceptable shadow flicker, or by turning the turbine off for the time of the day when the sun is at the angle that causes flicker. If a turbine is poorly sited and adjacent to many homes, the duration of shadow flicker on a neighbourhood can last hours.\n\nWind turbine syndrome is a psychosomatic disorder largely caused by anxiety about wind farms and not by the turbines themselves. There is limited evidence of anxiety effects caused by low level noise in the close vicinity of the turbines.\n\nSome turbine nacelle fires cannot be extinguished because of their height, and are sometimes left to burn themselves out. In such cases they generate toxic fumes and can cause secondary fires below. Newer wind turbines, however, are built with automatic fire extinguishing systems similar to those provided for jet aircraft engines. These autonomous systems, which can be retrofitted to older wind turbines, automatically detect a fire, shut down the turbine unit, and extinguish the fires.\n\nDuring winter, ice may form on turbine blades and subsequently be thrown off during operation. This is a potential safety hazard, and has led to localised shut-downs of turbines.\nModern turbines can detect ice formation and excess vibration during operations, and are shut down automatically. Electronic controllers and safety sub-systems monitor many aspects of the turbine, generator, tower, and environment to determine if the turbine is operating in a safe manner within prescribed limits. These systems can temporarily shut down the turbine due to high wind, ice, electrical load imbalance, vibration, and other problems. Recurring or significant problems cause a system lockout and notify an engineer for inspection and repair. In addition, most systems include multiple passive safety systems that stop operation even if the electronic controller fails. A 2007 study noted that no insurance claims had been filed, either in Europe or the US, for injuries from ice falling from wind towers, and that while some fatal accidents have occurred to industry workers, only one wind-tower related fatality was known to occur to a non-industry person: a parachutist.\n\nMany offshore wind farms have contributed to electricity needs in Europe and Asia for years, and as of 2014 the first offshore wind farms are under development in U.S. waters. While the offshore wind industry has grown dramatically over the last several decades, especially in Europe, there is still some uncertainty associated with how the construction and operation of these wind farms affect marine animals and the marine environment.\n\nTraditional offshore wind turbines are attached to the seabed in shallower waters within the near-shore marine environment. As offshore wind technologies become more advanced, floating structures have begun to be used in deeper waters where more wind resources exist.\n\nCommon environmental concerns associated with offshore wind developments include:\n\nGermany restricts underwater noise during pile driving to less than 160 dB.\n\nDue to the landscape protection status of large areas of the Wadden Sea, a major World Heritage Site with various national parks (e.g. Lower Saxon Wadden Sea National Park) German offshore installations are mostly restricted on areas outside the territorial waters. Offshore capacity in Germany is therefore way behind the British or Danish near coast installments, which face much lower restrictions.\n\nIn January 2009, a comprehensive government environmental study of coastal waters in the United Kingdom concluded that there is scope for between 5,000 and 7,000 offshore wind turbines to be installed without an adverse impact on the marine environment. The study—which forms part of the Department of Energy and Climate Change's Offshore Energy Strategic Environmental Assessment—is based on more than a year's research. It included analysis of seabed geology, as well as surveys of sea birds and marine mammals. There does not seem to have been much consideration however of the likely impact of displacement of fishing activities from traditional fishing grounds.\n\nA study published in 2014 suggests that some seals prefer to hunt near turbines, likely due to the laid stones functioning as artificial reefs which attract invertebrates and fish.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50142440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50142440", "title": "Evan Bevan", "text": "Evan Bevan\n\nEvan Bevan (1803–1866) was a Welsh writer of satirical verse.\n\nBevan was born into a poor family: his parents were William and Gwenllian Bevan of Llangynwyd, Glamorgan. As a young adult he moved to Ystradfellte, Brecknockshire and married there Ann Ifan, a butcher's daughter. He later moved to the Pontneathvaughan area.\n\nBevan gained a mainly local reputation as a writer of satirical verse under the pseudonym Ianto'r Castell, some of which is archived at the National Library of Wales. He died at Pontneathvaughan in October 1866.\n"}
{"id": "14746879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14746879", "title": "Ezra Booth", "text": "Ezra Booth\n\nEzra Booth (February 14, 1792 – January 1873) was an early member of the Latter Day Saint movement who became an outspoken critic of Joseph Smith and the church Smith founded.\n\nBooth was born in Newton, Connecticut. He had been a popular Methodist minister before going to Kirtland, Ohio with John and Elsa Johnson in 1831. After witnessing Joseph Smith heal Elsa's arm, Booth became a convert and was baptized and ordained an elder in May 1831 and was ordained to be a high priest by Lyman Wight on June 3, 1831.\n\nOn June 6, 1831, Booth was called to go to Missouri with Isaac Morley and preach the word by the way.\" Booth began his mission by preaching the Book of Mormon to a large audience in Bates Corners, Norton Township, Ohio in June 1831. On August 4, 1831, Booth was one of fourteen elders attending the a \"Special Conference\" in Kaw township, Jackson County, Missouri called by Joseph Smith.\n\nOn September 6, 1831, Booth was \"silenced from preaching as an Elder\" by Smith, Sidney Rigdon, Oliver Cowdery, and others. Smith stated that to be because of Booth's dissension towards the leaders of the church, and his apparent lack of humility. Booth had apparently expected that he would convert people through the performance of miracles, as had been his experience with Smith. When no miracles were forthcoming, he became disillusioned. A revelation came to Smith a few days later, and stated that I, the Lord, was angry with him who was my servant Ezra Booth, and also my servant Isaac Morley, for they kept not the law, neither the commandment; they sought evil in their hearts.… They condemned for evil that thing in which there was no evil; nevertheless I have forgiven my servant Isaac Morley.\n\nLess than three days after being \"silenced from preaching as an Elder\" and after being a member for only five months, Booth renounced Mormonism in the first of nine letters to be published in the \"Ohio Star\", beginning in November 1831. Booth's letters focused on three main types of criticism: (1) inconsistencies he saw in Smith's revelations, (2) the \"despotic\" behavior of the church itself, and (3) the personal weaknesses in Smith and other church leaders. In Norton Township (the area to which Booth was sent on his mission), the effect of Booth's letters is such that \"the public feeling was, that 'Mormonism' was overthrown\" until Reynolds Cahoon, David Whitmer, and Lyman E. Johnson arrived on a mission. Booth's letters were reprinted by E. D. Howe in his 1834 book \"Mormonism Unvailed\".\n\nInformation about Booth after 1831 is scarce. However, he married a couple in Mentor, Ohio on January 16, 1832, and later created the \"Church of Christ.\" His Church of Christ adopted many principles from Mormonism and Restoration Christianity but taught that Smith was a false prophet and that the Book of Mormon was not true. The church had several meetings and soon disbanded. In 1865, Booth moved to Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio.\n\nBooth is buried in Oakwood Cemetery in Cuyahoga Falls, not far from the Johnson home in Hiram. He was buried on January 12, 1873, but the precise date of his death is unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "53667642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53667642", "title": "Florence Buccor", "text": "Florence Buccor\n\nFlorence Buccor was an All-American Girls Professional Baseball League player. She was born in Jackson, Missouri.\n\nBuccor is part of the AAGPBL permanent display at the Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum at Cooperstown, New York opened in 1988, which is dedicated to the entire league rather than any individual figure.\n\nBuccor appears as a member of the Peoria Redwings club during its 1956 inaugural season. Nevertheless, the league did not have additional information about her, and requires if someone has information regarding this player, please contact them at their website.\n"}
{"id": "11508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11508", "title": "Francis Drake", "text": "Francis Drake\n\nSir Francis Drake ( – 28 January 1596) was an English sea captain, privateer, slave trader, naval officer and explorer of the Elizabethan era. Drake carried out the second circumnavigation of the world in a single expedition, from 1577 to 1580, and was the first to complete the voyage as captain while leading the expedition throughout the entire circumnavigation. With his incursion into the Pacific Ocean, he claimed what is now California for the English and inaugurated an era of conflict with the Spanish on the western coast of the Americas, an area that had previously been largely unexplored by western shipping.\n\nElizabeth I awarded Drake a knighthood in 1581 which he received on the Golden Hind in Deptford. As a Vice Admiral, he was second-in-command of the English fleet in the battle against the Spanish Armada in 1588. He died of dysentery in January 1596, after unsuccessfully attacking San Juan, Puerto Rico. Drake's exploits made him a hero to the English, but his privateering led the Spanish to brand him a pirate, known to them as \"El Draque\". King Philip II allegedly offered a reward for his capture or death of 20,000 ducats, about £6 million (US$8 million) in modern currency.\n\nFrancis Drake was born in Tavistock, Devon, England. Although his birth date is not formally recorded, it is known that he was born while the Six Articles were in force. His birth date is estimated from contemporary sources such as: \"Drake was two and twenty when he obtained the command of the \"Judith\"\" (1566). This would date his birth to 1544. A date of c.1540 is suggested from two portraits: one a miniature painted by Nicholas Hilliard in 1581 when he was allegedly 42, so born circa 1539, while the other, painted in 1594 when he was said to be 53, would give a birth year of around 1541.\n\nHe was the oldest of the twelve sons of Edmund Drake (1518–1585), a Protestant farmer, and his wife Mary Mylwaye. The first son was alleged to have been named after his godfather Francis Russell, 2nd Earl of Bedford.\n\nBecause of religious persecution during the Prayer Book Rebellion in 1549, the Drake family fled from Devon to Kent. There Drake's father obtained an appointment to minister the men in the King's Navy. He was ordained deacon and was made vicar of Upnor Church on the Medway. Drake's father apprenticed him to his neighbour, the master of a barque used for coastal trade transporting merchandise to France. The ship's master was so satisfied with the young Drake's conduct that, being unmarried and childless at his death, he bequeathed the barque to Drake. \n\nFrancis Drake married Mary Newman at St. Budeaux church, Plymouth, in July 1569. She died 12 years later, in 1581. In 1585, Drake married Elizabeth Sydenham—born circa 1562, the only child of Sir George Sydenham, of Combe Sydenham, who was the High Sheriff of Somerset. After Drake's death, the widow Elizabeth eventually married Sir William Courtenay of Powderham.\n\nAt the age of eighteen he was purser of a ship which sailed to the Bay of Biscay. At twenty he made a voyage to the coast of Guinea.\nIn 1563, Drake, aged 23, made his first voyage to the Americas, sailing with his second cousin, Sir John Hawkins, on one of a fleet of ships owned by his relatives, the Hawkins family of Plymouth. He made three voyages with this fleet, attacking Portuguese towns and ships on the coast of West Africa. They then sailed to the Americas and sold the captured cargoes of slaves to Spanish plantations. John Hawkins is considered to have been the first English slave-trader. Hawkins made three such expeditions, the first in 1563, second in 1564 and the third expedition ending in the ill-fated 1568 incident at San Juan de Ulúa.\n\nIn 1568, Drake was on his third expedition with the Hawkins fleet when, whilst negotiating to resupply and repair at a Spanish port in Mexico, the fleet was attacked by Spanish warships, with all but two of the English ships lost. He escaped along with John Hawkins, surviving the attack by swimming.\n\nDrake's hostility towards the Spanish is said to have started with this incident. Following the defeat at San Juan de Ulúa, Drake vowed revenge.\nIn 1570, his reputation enabled him to proceed to the West Indies with two vessels under his command. He renewed his visit the next year for the sole purpose of obtaining information.\n\nIn 1572, he embarked on his first major independent enterprise. He planned an attack on the Isthmus of Panama, known to the Spanish as Tierra Firme and the English as the Spanish Main. This was the point at which the silver and gold treasure of Peru had to be landed and sent overland to the Caribbean Sea, where galleons from Spain would pick it up at the town of Nombre de Dios. Drake left Plymouth on 24 May 1572, with a crew of 73 men in two small vessels, the \"Pascha\" (70 tons) and the \"Swan\" (25 tons), to capture Nombre de Dios.\n\nHis first raid was late in July 1572. Drake and his men captured the town and its treasure. When his men noticed that Drake was bleeding profusely from a wound, they insisted on withdrawing to save his life and left the treasure. Drake stayed in the area for almost a year, raiding Spanish shipping and attempting to capture a treasure shipment.\n\nThe most celebrated of Drake's adventures along the Spanish Main was his capture of the Spanish Silver Train at Nombre de Dios in March 1573. He raided the waters around Darien (in modern Panama) with a crew including many French privateers including Guillaume Le Testu, a French buccaneer, and African slaves (Maroons) who had escaped the Spanish. Drake tracked the Silver Train to the nearby port of Nombre de Dios. After their attack on the richly laden mule train, Drake and his party found that they had captured around 20 tons of silver and gold. They buried much of the treasure, as it was too much for their party to carry, and made off with a fortune in gold. (An account of this may have given rise to subsequent stories of pirates and buried treasure.) Wounded, Le Testu was captured and later beheaded. The small band of adventurers dragged as much gold and silver as they could carry back across some 18 miles of jungle-covered mountains to where they had left the raiding boats. When they got to the coast, the boats were gone. Drake and his men, downhearted, exhausted and hungry, had nowhere to go and the Spanish were not far behind.\n\nAt this point, Drake rallied his men, buried the treasure on the beach, and built a raft to sail with two volunteers ten miles along the surf-lashed coast to where they had left the flagship. When Drake finally reached its deck, his men were alarmed at his bedraggled appearance. Fearing the worst, they asked him how the raid had gone. Drake could not resist a joke and teased them by looking downhearted. Then he laughed, pulled a necklace of Spanish gold from around his neck and said \"Our voyage is made, lads!\" By 9 August 1573, he had returned to Plymouth.\n\nIt was during this expedition that he climbed a high tree in the central mountains of the Isthmus of Panama and thus became the first Englishman to see the Pacific Ocean. He remarked as he saw it that he hoped one day an Englishman would be able to sail it—which he would do years later as part of his circumnavigation of the world.\n\nWhen Drake returned to Plymouth after the raids, the government signed a temporary truce with King Philip II of Spain and so was unable to acknowledge Drake's accomplishment officially. Drake was considered a hero in England and a pirate in Spain for his raids.\n\nDrake was present at the Rathlin Island massacre in 1575. Acting on the instructions of Sir Henry Sidney and the Earl of Essex, Sir John Norreys and Drake laid siege to Rathlin Castle. Despite their surrender, Norreys' troops killed all the 200 defenders and more than 400 civilian men, women and children of Clan MacDonnell. Meanwhile Drake was given the task of preventing any Gaelic Irish or Scottish reinforcements reaching the island. Therefore, the remaining leader of the Gaelic defense against English power, Sorley Boy MacDonnell, was forced to stay on the mainland. Essex wrote in his letter to Queen Elizabeth’s secretary, that following the attack Sorley Boy \"was likely to have run mad for sorrow, tearing and tormenting himself and saying that he there lost all that he ever had.\" \n\nWith the success of the Panama isthmus raid in 1577, Elizabeth I of England sent Drake to start an expedition against the Spanish along the Pacific coast of the Americas. Drake used the plans that Sir Richard Grenville had received the patent for in 1574 from Elizabeth, which was rescinded a year later after protests from Philip of Spain. He set out from Plymouth on 15 November 1577, but bad weather threatened him and his fleet. They were forced to take refuge in Falmouth, Cornwall, from where they returned to Plymouth for repair.\n\nAfter this major setback, Drake set sail again on 13 December aboard \"Pelican\" with four other ships and 164 men. He soon added a sixth ship, \"Mary\" (formerly \"Santa Maria\"), a Portuguese merchant ship that had been captured off the coast of Africa near the Cape Verde Islands. He also added its captain, Nuno da Silva, a man with considerable experience navigating in South American waters.\n\nDrake's fleet suffered great attrition; he scuttled both \"Christopher\" and the flyboat \"Swan\" due to loss of men on the Atlantic crossing. He made landfall at the gloomy bay of San Julian, in what is now Argentina. Ferdinand Magellan had called here half a century earlier, where he put to death some mutineers. Drake's men saw weathered and bleached skeletons on the grim Spanish gibbets. Following Magellan's example, Drake tried and executed his own \"mutineer\" Thomas Doughty. The crew discovered that \"Mary\" had rotting timbers, so they burned the ship. Drake decided to remain the winter in San Julian before attempting the Strait of Magellan.\n\nOn his voyage to interfere with Spanish treasure fleets, Drake had several quarrels with his co-commander Thomas Doughty and on 3 June 1578, accused him of witchcraft and charged him with mutiny and treason in a shipboard trial. Drake claimed to have a (never presented) commission from the Queen to carry out such acts and denied Doughty a trial in England. The main pieces of evidence against Doughty were the testimony of the ship's carpenter, Edward Bright, who after the trial was promoted to master of the ship \"Marigold\", and Doughty's admission of telling Lord Burghley, a vocal opponent of agitating the Spanish, of the intent of the voyage. Drake consented to his request of Communion and dined with him, of which Francis Fletcher had this strange account:\n\nDrake had Thomas Doughty beheaded on 2 July 1578. When the ship's chaplain Francis Fletcher in a sermon suggested that the woes of the voyage in January 1580 were connected to the unjust demise of Doughty, Drake chained the clergyman to a hatch cover and pronounced him excommunicated.\n\nThe three remaining ships of his convoy departed for the Magellan Strait at the southern tip of South America. A few weeks later (September 1578) Drake made it to the Pacific, but violent storms destroyed one of the three ships, the \"Marigold\" (captained by John Thomas) in the strait and caused another, the \"Elizabeth\" captained by John Wynter, to return to England, leaving only the \"Pelican\". After this passage, the \"Pelican\" was pushed south and discovered an island that Drake called Elizabeth Island. Drake, like navigators before him, probably reached a latitude of 55°S (according to astronomical data quoted in Hakluyt's \"The Principall Navigations, Voiages and Discoveries of the English Nation\" of 1589) along the Chilean coast. In the Magellan Strait Francis and his men engaged in skirmish with local indigenous people, becoming the first Europeans to kill indigenous peoples in southern Patagonia. During the stay in the strait, crew members discovered that an infusion made of the bark of \"Drimys winteri\" could be used as remedy against scurvy. Captain Wynter ordered the collection of great amounts of bark – hence the scientific name.\n\nDespite popular lore, it seems unlikely that Drake reached Cape Horn or the eponymous Drake Passage, because his descriptions do not fit the first and his shipmates denied having seen an open sea. The first report of his discovery of an open channel south of Tierra del Fuego was written after the 1618 publication of the voyage of Willem Schouten and Jacob le Maire around Cape Horn in 1616.\n\nDrake pushed onwards in his lone flagship, now renamed the \"Golden Hind\" in honour of Sir Christopher Hatton (after his coat of arms). The \"Golden Hind\" sailed north along the Pacific coast of South America, attacking Spanish ports and pillaging towns. Some Spanish ships were captured, and Drake used their more accurate charts. Before reaching the coast of Peru, Drake visited Mocha Island, where he was seriously injured by hostile Mapuche. Later he sacked the port of Valparaíso further north in Chile, where he also captured a ship full of Chilean wine.\n\nNear Lima, Drake captured a Spanish ship laden with 25,000 pesos of Peruvian gold, amounting in value to 37,000 ducats of Spanish money (about £7m by modern standards). Drake also discovered news of another ship, \"Nuestra Señora de la Concepción\", which was sailing west towards Manila. It would come to be called the \"Cacafuego\". Drake gave chase and eventually captured the treasure ship, which proved his most profitable capture.\n\nAboard \"Nuestra Señora de la Concepción\", Drake found of gold, a golden crucifix, jewels, 13 chests full of royals of plate and 26 tons of silver. Drake was naturally pleased at his good luck in capturing the galleon, and he showed it by dining with the captured ship's officers and gentleman passengers. He offloaded his captives a short time later, and gave each one gifts appropriate to their rank, as well as a letter of safe conduct.\n\nAfter looting the Cacafuego, Drake turned north, hoping to meet another Spanish treasure ship coming south on its return from Manila to Acapulco. Although he failed to find a treasure ship, Drake reputedly sailed as far north as the 38th parallel, landing on the coast of California on 17 June 1579. He found a good port, landed, repaired and restocked his vessels, then stayed for a time, keeping friendly relations with the Coast Miwok natives. He claimed the land in the name of the Holy Trinity for the English Crown, called \"Nova Albion\"—Latin for \"New Britain\". Assertions that he left some of his men behind as an embryo \"colony\" are founded on the reduced number who were with him in the Moluccas.\n\nThe precise location of the port was carefully guarded to keep it secret from the Spaniards, and several of Drake's maps may have been altered to this end. All first-hand records from the voyage, including logs, paintings and charts, were lost when Whitehall Palace burned in 1698. A bronze plaque inscribed with Drake's claim to the new lands – Drake's Plate of Brass – fitting the description in his account, was discovered in Marin County, California but was later declared a hoax. Now a National Historic Landmark, the officially recognised location of Drake's New Albion is Drakes Bay, California.\n\nDrake left the Pacific coast, heading southwest to catch the winds that would carry his ship across the Pacific, and a few months later reached the Moluccas, a group of islands in the western Pacific, in eastern modern-day Indonesia. While there, \"Golden Hind\" became caught on a reef and was almost lost. After the sailors waited three days for convenient tides and had dumped cargo, they freed the barque. Befriending a sultan king of the Moluccas, Drake and his men became involved in some intrigues with the Portuguese there. He made multiple stops on his way toward the tip of Africa, eventually rounded the Cape of Good Hope, and reached Sierra Leone by 22 July 1580.\n\nOn 26 September, \"Golden Hind\" sailed into Plymouth with Drake and 59 remaining crew aboard, along with a rich cargo of spices and captured Spanish treasures. The Queen's half-share of the cargo surpassed the rest of the crown's income for that entire year. Drake was hailed as the first Englishman to circumnavigate the Earth (and the second such voyage arriving with at least one ship intact, after Elcano's in 1520).\n\nThe Queen declared that all written accounts of Drake's voyages were to become the Queen's secrets of the Realm, and Drake and the other participants of his voyages on the pain of death sworn to their secrecy; she intended to keep Drake's activities away from the eyes of rival Spain. Drake presented the Queen with a jewel token commemorating the circumnavigation. Taken as a prize off the Pacific coast of Mexico, it was made of enamelled gold and bore an African diamond and a ship with an ebony hull.\n\nFor her part, the Queen gave Drake a jewel with her portrait, an unusual gift to bestow upon a commoner, and one that Drake sported proudly in his 1591 portrait by Marcus Gheeraerts now at the National Maritime Museum, Greenwich. On one side is a state portrait of Elizabeth by the miniaturist Nicholas Hilliard, on the other a sardonyx cameo of double portrait busts, a regal woman and an African male. The \"Drake Jewel\", as it is known today, is a rare documented survivor among sixteenth-century jewels; it is conserved at the Victoria and Albert Museum, London.\n\nQueen Elizabeth awarded Drake a knighthood aboard \"Golden Hind\" in Deptford on 4 April 1581; the dubbing being performed by a French diplomat, Monsieur de Marchaumont, who was negotiating for Elizabeth to marry the King of France's brother, Francis, Duke of Anjou. By getting the French diplomat involved in the knighting, Elizabeth was gaining the implicit political support of the French for Drake's actions. During the Victorian era, in a spirit of nationalism, the story was promoted that Elizabeth I had done the knighting.\n\nAfter receiving his knighthood Drake unilaterally adopted the armorials of the ancient Devon family of Drake of Ash, near Musbury, to whom he claimed a distant but unspecified kinship. These arms were: \"Argent, a wyvern wings displayed and tail nowed gules\", and the crest, \"a dexter arm Proper grasping a battle axe Sable, headed Argent\". The head of that family, also a distinguished sailor, Sir Bernard Drake (d.1586), angrily refuted Sir Francis's claimed kinship and his right to bear his family's arms. That dispute led to \"a box in the ear\" being given to Sir Francis by Sir Bernard at court, as recorded by John Prince in his \"Worthies of Devon\" (1697). Queen Elizabeth, to assuage matters, awarded Sir Francis his own coat of arms, blazoned as follows:\n\nThe motto, \"Sic Parvis Magna\", translated literally, is: \"Thus great things from small things (come)\". The hand out of the clouds, labelled \"Auxilio Divino\", means \"With Divine Help\". The full achievement is depicted in the form of a large coloured plaster overmantel in the Lifetimes Gallery at Buckland Abbey\n\nNevertheless, Drake continued to quarter his new arms with the wyvern gules. The arms adopted by his nephew Sir Francis Drake, 1st Baronet (1588–1637) of Buckland were the arms of Drake of Ash, but the wyvern without a \"nowed\" (knotted) tail.\nDrake was politically astute, and although known for his private and military endeavours, he was an influential figure in politics during the time he spent in Britain. Often abroad, there is little evidence to suggest he was active in Westminster, despite being a member of parliament on three occasions.\n\nAfter returning from his voyage of circumnavigation, Drake became the Mayor of Plymouth, in September 1581. He became a member of parliament during a session of the 4th Parliament of Elizabeth I, on 16 January 1581, for the constituency of Camelford. He did not actively participate at this point, and on 17 February 1581 he was granted leave of absence \"for certain his necessary business in the service of her Majesty\".\n\nDrake became a member of parliament again in 1584 for Bossiney on the forming of the 5th Parliament of Elizabeth I. He served the duration of the parliament and was active in issues regarding the navy, fishing, early American colonisation, and issues related chiefly to Devon. He spent the time covered by the next two parliamentary terms engaged in other duties and an expedition to Portugal.\nHe became a member of parliament for Plymouth in 1593. He was active in issues of interest to Plymouth as a whole, but also to emphasize defence against the Spanish.\n\nIn 1580, Drake purchased Buckland Abbey, a large manor house near Yelverton in Devon, via intermediaries from Sir Richard Greynvile. He lived there for fifteen years, until his final voyage, and it remained in his family for several generations. Buckland Abbey is now in the care of the National Trust and a number of mementos of his life are displayed there.\n\nWar had already been declared by Phillip II after the Treaty of Nonsuch, so the Queen through Francis Walsingham ordered Sir Francis Drake to lead an expedition to attack the Spanish colonies in a kind of preemptive strike. An expedition left Plymouth in September 1585 with Drake in command of twenty-one ships with 1,800 soldiers under Christopher Carleill. He first attacked Vigo in Spain and held the place for two weeks ransoming supplies. He then plundered Santiago in the Cape Verde islands after which the fleet then sailed across the Atlantic, sacked the port of Santo Domingo, and captured the city of Cartagena de Indias in present-day Colombia. On 6 June 1586, during the return leg of the voyage, he raided the Spanish fort of San Augustín in Spanish Florida.\n\nAfter the raids he then went on to find Sir Walter Raleigh's settlement much further north at Roanoke which he replenished and also took back with him all of the original colonists before Sir Richard Greynvile arrived with supplies and more colonists. He finally reached England on 22 July, when he sailed into Portsmouth, England to a hero's welcome.\n\nAngered by these acts, Philip II ordered a planned invasion of England.\n\nIn another pre-emptive strike, Drake \"singed the beard of the King of Spain\" in 1587 by sailing a fleet into Cadiz and also Corunna, two of Spain's main ports, and occupied the harbours. He destroyed 37 naval and merchant ships. The attack delayed the Spanish invasion by a year. Over the next month, Drake patrolled the Iberian coasts between Lisbon and Cape St. Vincent, intercepting and destroying ships on the Spanish supply lines. Drake estimated that he captured around 1600–1700 tons of barrel staves, enough to make 25,000 to for containing provisions.\n\nDrake was vice admiral in command of the English fleet (under Lord Howard of Effingham,) when it overcame the Spanish Armada that was attempting to invade England in 1588. As the English fleet pursued the Armada up the English Channel in closing darkness, Drake broke off and captured the Spanish galleon \"Rosario\", along with Admiral Pedro de Valdés and all his crew. The Spanish ship was known to be carrying substantial funds to pay the Spanish Army in the Low Countries. Drake's ship had been leading the English pursuit of the Armada by means of a lantern. By extinguishing this for the capture, Drake put the fleet into disarray overnight.\n\nOn the night of 29 July, along with Howard, Drake organised fire-ships, causing the majority of the Spanish captains to break formation and sail out of Calais into the open sea. The next day, Drake was present at the Battle of Gravelines. He wrote as follows to Admiral Henry Seymour after coming upon part of the Spanish Armada, whilst aboard \"Revenge\" on 31 July 1588 (21 July 1588 O.S.):Coming up to them, there has passed some common shot between some of our fleet and some of them; and as far as we perceive, they are determined to sell their lives with blows.\n\nThe most famous (but probably apocryphal) anecdote about Drake relates that, prior to the battle, he was playing a game of bowls on Plymouth Hoe. On being warned of the approach of the Spanish fleet, Drake is said to have remarked that there was plenty of time to finish the game and still beat the Spaniards. There is no known eyewitness account of this incident and the earliest retelling of it was printed 37 years later. Adverse winds and currents caused some delay in the launching of the English fleet as the Spanish drew nearer, perhaps prompting a popular myth of Drake's cavalier attitude to the Spanish threat.\n\nIn 1589, the year after defeating the Armada, Drake and Sir John Norreys were given three tasks: seek out and destroy the remaining ships, support the rebels in Lisbon, Portugal against King Philip II (then king of Spain and Portugal), and take the Azores if possible. Drake and Norreys destroyed a few ships in the harbour of A Coruña in Spain but lost more than 12,000 lives and 20 ships. This delayed Drake, and he was forced to forgo hunting the rest of the surviving ships and head on to Lisbon.\n\nDrake's seafaring career continued into his mid-fifties. In 1595, he failed to conquer the port of Las Palmas, and following a disastrous campaign against Spanish America, where he suffered a number of defeats, he unsuccessfully attacked San Juan de Puerto Rico, eventually losing the Battle of San Juan.\n\nThe Spanish gunners from El Morro Castle shot a cannonball through the cabin of Drake's flagship, but he survived. He attempted to attack San Juan again, but a few weeks later, in January 1596, he died (aged about 56) of dysentery, a common disease in the tropics at the time, while anchored off the coast of Portobelo, Panama, where some Spanish treasure ships had sought shelter. Following his death, the English fleet withdrew.\n\nBefore dying, he asked to be dressed in his full armour. He was buried at sea in a sealed lead-lined coffin, near Portobelo, a few miles off the coastline. It is supposed that his final resting place is near the wrecks of two British ships, the \"Elizabeth\" and the \"Delight\", scuttled in Portobelo Bay. Divers continue to search for the coffin. Drake’s body has never been recovered.\n\nIn the UK there are various places named after him, especially in Plymouth, Devon. Places there carrying his name include the naval base (HMS Drake), Drake's Island and a shopping centre and roundabout named Drake Circus. Plymouth Hoe is also home to a statue of Drake.\n\nIn the United States Drakes Bay and Sir Francis Drake Boulevard of Marin County, California are both named after him, as well as the high school in San Anselmo, California. The boulevard runs between Drakes Bay at Point Reyes to Point San Quentin on San Francisco Bay. A large hotel in Union Square, San Francisco also bears his name. Additionally, the Sir Francis Drake Channel in the British Virgin Islands bears his name.\n\nIn British Columbia, Canada, where some theorize he may also have landed to the north of the usual site considered to be Nova Albion, various mountains were named in the 1930s for him, or in connection with Elizabeth I or other figures of that era, including Mount Sir Francis Drake, Mount Queen Bess, and the Golden Hinde, the highest mountain on Vancouver Island.\n\nDrake's will was the focus of a vast confidence scheme which Oscar Hartzell perpetrated in the 1920s and 1930s. He convinced thousands of people, mostly in the American Midwest, that Drake's fortune was being held by the British government, and had compounded to a huge amount. If their last name was Drake they might be eligible for a share if they paid Hartzell to be their agent. The swindle continued until a copy of Drake's will was brought to Hartzell's mail fraud trial and he was convicted and imprisoned.\n\nDrake's Drum has become an icon of English folklore with its variation of the classic king in the mountain story.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14959310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14959310", "title": "Gog (Marvel Comics)", "text": "Gog (Marvel Comics)\n\nGog is a fictional character, a comic book supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.\n\nCreated by writer Roy Thomas and Gil Kane, the character first appears in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #103.\n\nWhile traveling through the Savage Land, Kraven the Hunter finds a crashed space ship in quicksand and ventures inside. There, he finds the juvenile and minuscule Gog and another member of species, who had apparently died during the space ship crash landing. Deciding to save the young Gog from his sinking ship, Kraven takes him with him, names him Gog and decides to raise him as a pet; much to Kraven's surprise, Gog rapidly grows to gigantic size only days after being found by him. Kraven, realizing how useful Gog can be, decides to use him in a plot to conquer the Savage Land. After kidnapping the visiting Gwen Stacy from a camp in the Savage Land, Kraven and Gog battle the heroes Ka-Zar and Spider-Man. While Ka-Zar deals with Kraven, Spider-Man defeats Gog by luring him into a patch of quicksand, which he sinks to the bottom of.\n\nGog would later be saved from dying in the quicksand by the Plunderer. Having Gog (who created a device that allowed him to speak English) act as his servant, the Plunderer uses him in a plot to try to steal the super soldier serum in New York City. Followed to New York by Ka-Zar, Gog and the Plunderer battle him before Gog, using his teleportation bracelets, escapes, first to the Statue of Liberty, then the World Trade Center and finally, to another dimension.\n\nGog is later found in the dimension he escaped to by Doctor Octopus and the Sinister Six, who induct the creature into their group as the sixth and final member of it. Aiding the Sinister Six fight a multitude of heroes, Gog is beaten in combat by the hero Solo and shrunken by Mister Fantastic, who sends him back to the dimension the Sinister Six found him in.\n\nGog later appeared on Monster Isle when Shadowcat and Magik appeared to look for a mutant girl named Bo. Gog was among the monsters that attacked the three until Magik teleported herself, Shadowcat, and Bo to the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning.\n\nGog possesses superhuman strength. He also wears bracelets that are capable of granting him interdimensional teleportation.\n\n"}
{"id": "35767035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35767035", "title": "Harold Jones (murderer)", "text": "Harold Jones (murderer)\n\nHarold Jones (11 January 1906 – 1971) was a child murderer who committed the murder of two preadolescent girls in Monmouthshire, Wales in 1921 when he himself was aged 15.\n\nJones was acquitted of the murder of his first victim, 8-year-old Freda Burnell, at Monmouthshire Assizes on 21 June 1921. Just 17 days later, he murdered an 11-year-old neighbour named Florence Little. Jones pleaded guilty to Little's murder; also confessing to having murdered Freda Burnell at this second trial.\n\nOwing to his being under 16 at the time he committed the murders, Jones escaped capital punishment for his crimes; instead being sentenced to be detained at His Majesty's pleasure on 1 November 1921. Jones was released from prison in 1941, later marrying and fathering a child. He died of bone cancer in 1971.\n\nHarold Jones was born in the Welsh colliery town of Abertillery in 1906, the eldest of four children born into a poor family. His father, Phillip, worked as a coal miner, whereas his mother was a housewife. Jones and his siblings attended a local council school where he was regarded as a popular and exemplary student, showing a particular flair for sports, and holding aspirations to become a professional boxer. He is also known to have spent much of his free time reading, and to have occasionally played the organ at local church services.\n\nJones left school at 14 to obtain employment—largely as a means of supplementing his family's income. He found employment at a local oil and seed merchant named Mortimer's Stores. Here, he was known to be a punctual and trustworthy employee who was both capable of managing the shop without help, and popular with customers.\n\nOn the afternoon of 5 February 1921, an eight-year-old girl named Freda Burnell was reported missing by her parents. She had last been seen by her father, Fred, at approximately 9 a.m. that morning, having been sent on an errand from her home at 9 Earl Street to purchase poultry spice and grit from Mortimer's Stores in nearby Somerset Street to feed the family livestock, with her father promising her a penny upon her return.\n\nWhen Freda had not returned home after an hour, her frantic parents began making inquiries, including at the store Freda had been sent to visit. The 15-year-old assistant at this store, Harold Jones, confirmed to Freda's father (and later the police) that Freda had visited the store at approximately 9:05 a.m. and that he had served her a bag of poultry spice, adding that she had also asked for a bag of poultry grit but he had informed her the store only had loose poultry grit. The child, he claimed, had left the store to ask her father whether loose poultry grit would suffice, and he had not seen her since. By 3 p.m., the Burnell family had informed police Freda was missing, and an exhaustive search for the child was launched.\n\nThe following morning, Freda's body was found by a collier concealed in a sack in an alleyway just 300 yards from the store she had visited. Her cause of death was certified as being a combination of blunt trauma to her head and strangulation evident via a cord still tied around her neck, with the time of death occurring between 9:30 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on the date of her disappearance. In addition, Freda had been gagged, her elbows had been bound behind her back, and her ankles were knotted together. An attempt had also been made to rape the child. Traces of corn chaff were also found upon and around her body, and inside the sack in which she was discovered.\n\nInvestigators noted that a chicken run in the shed belonging to Harold Jones's employers located just a few hundred yards from where the body had been discovered had corn chaff extensively scattered upon the ground, and a handkerchief known to have been in Freda's possession at the time of her disappearance was also found on the ground in the shed. In addition, an axe handle determined to have caused the blunt trauma to Freda's head was discovered concealed beneath some sacking inside the shed. Aside from his employers, Jones was the only individual in possession of a key to the shed, and investigators established a clear time frame of between 9:15 and 9:40 a.m. when no witnesses had physically seen him inside the store.\n\nA friend of Jones named Levi Meyrick also informed police Jones had actively dissuaded him and a friend from accompanying him to the storage shed at approximately 10:20 p.m. on 5 February; another witness also informed police he had heard a female child's screams emanating from this shed on the actual morning of Freda's disappearance. When questioned as to these facts, Jones insisted he had not been in the shed on the day of Freda's disappearance. Nonetheless, investigators were convinced otherwise, and he was held in detention at Abertillery Police Station to await the coutcome of the coroner's inquest.\n\nThe inquest into the death of Freda Burnell was formally opened on 7 March. Jones was one of many individuals called to testify at this inquest. He performed poorly on the stand; repeatedly giving conflicting testimony as to his actions on the day of the murder and being forced to admit to lying about various aspects of his testimony (on one occasion prompting the coroner to scold him and insist he tell the truth). Nonetheless, despite there being little physical evidence linking Jones to the murder, investigators believed enough circumstantial evidence existed to formally charge him with the crime. In response to this formal charge, Jones replied: \"I know it looks black against me, but I never done it.\" He was remanded in custody until 5 April when he appeared before magistrates. On this date, a decision to try Jones for the wilful murder of Freda Burnell was reached. Bail was refused, and he was detained at Usk Prison to await trial.\n\nJones was brought to trial for the murder of Freda Burnell at Monmouthshire Assizes on 21 June, the prosecution alleging that he had murdered Freda inside the shed belonging to his employers on the morning of 5 February before placing her body in a sack, and placing the body in an alley close to the shed that evening. He pleaded not guilty to the charge; insisting that he had last seen Freda when he had served her at approximately 9:05 a.m. before she had left the store.\n\nAlthough Jones had contradicted himself on several occasions at the initial inquest, he remained calm when called to testify in his own defence at trial, also withstanding rigorous cross-examination. His employer, Herbert Henry Mortimer, provided him with an alibi; insisting he had heard Jones and his own son working in the store in the early morning of 5 February before the two had been sent to deliver a sack of potatoes to a customer at approximately 10 a.m., later returning to the store where they had continued to work for the rest of the day. Furthermore, on the third day of the trial Jones's own father challenged the prosecutor's contention his son had placed Freda's body in the alley on the evening of her murder; insisting his son had not left the family home between the time he had returned home from work and the following morning, and that he would likely have known so had this been the case. His testimony was corroborated by his wife, who also stressed her son had always exhibited \"good behaviour\" towards young girls. \n\nDespite the evidence presented at this trial clearly indicating that Freda had most likely been killed in the shed belonging to Jones's employers and only Harold and the Mortimer family having access to the key, after deliberating for over five hours, the jury found Jones not guilty of Freda's murder, returning a unanimous verdict of murder by person or persons unknown.\n\nJones walked free from the courtroom to a private and reportedly tearful reunion with his parents before being escorted to a local restaurant for a meal. At this service, Jones stood upon a table and addressed his numerous supporters with a speech in which he stated: \"I thank you all. I do not hold a grudge against the people of Abertillery for the horrendous ordeal I have been put through.\" He subsequently returned to Abertillery in a charabanc adorned with flags and bunting to cheers from the local public, most of whom found the notion that a 15-year-old boy could sexually assault and kill a child simply inconceivable. One of those to greet Jones upon his return was a neighbour named George Little, who greeted him with the statement: \"Well done, lad. We knew you didn't do it.\"\n\nSeventeen days after Jones's acquittal of Freda's murder, on 8 July, he observed a neighbour of his named Florence Little playing hopskotch with his own sister, Flossie, outside his home at 10 Darran Road. He lured Florence into his house on the pretext of asking her to perform an errand for his family. Inside Jones's home, Florence was instantly partially strangled and dragged into the kitchen, where she was beaten across the head and temple with a plank of wood before Jones suspended her head and neck over his sink, grabbed her by the hair, and proceeded to cut her throat with his father's pocketknife. He then wrapped Florence's head and neck in a grey army shirt before concealing her partially dressed body in the family attic. Having washed all the bloodstains he noted from the sink, walls, floor, and entrance hatch to the attic, Jones then proceeded to bathe himself.\n\nPolice were notified of Florence's disappearance at 11:15 p.m., and immediately conducted house-to-house searches. The simultaneous searches of nearby woodland and mountains would be assisted by hundreds of local volunteers including Harold Jones. Questioned by police as to whether he had seen Florence on the day of her disappearance, Jones repeated the same lie he had earlier recited to Mrs. Little when she had called upon his house asking as to her daughter's whereabouts: that she had been at his front door, but had then simply \"ran off.\"\n\nWith Jones's father's consent, the local superintendent, Henry Lewis, and a constable searched Jones's home at 8:30 a.m. the following day as Harold discreetly exited the family home. Noting the trap-door to the attic was bloodstained despite evident attempts to clean it, the constable conducting the search entered the attic where he discovered Florence's body outstretched across the rafters. Also discovered in the police search of Jones's home were the bloodstained knife Jones had used to murder Florence, a small egg-saucepan filled with a mixture of blood and water beneath the sink over which he had cut the child's throat, a bloodstained plank of wood measuring 19 inches in length concealed beneath the family boiler, and a bloodstained table close to the entrance to the attic in which Florence's body had been concealed.\n\nInformed of the discovery in his attic, Phillip Jones left his property and performed a citizen's arrest on his son as he conversed with a friend in nearby Mitre Street. Jones then accompanied his father back to Darran Road, where he was placed under arrest. \n\nWhen news of Jones's arrest for the suspected murder of a second young girl reached the local public, an irate crowd of approximately 500 people gathered outside the local police station, demanding his immediate release. In response, Superintendent Lewis addressed the crowd, stating: \"I have found the body of the child in the attic of Harold Jones, foully murdered, and I have arrested Harold Jones. I think this is all I can tell you and it would help us if you disperse and go to your homes.\"\n\nOn 11 July, an inquest into the death of Florence Little was formally opened. Again conducted by the deputy coroner for the district, the jury heard testimony on this date that Florence Little had effectively bled to death from the wound to her throat. Also to testify at the inquest was Florence's mother, Elsie, who stated that when she had knocked at the Jones residence on the date of her daughter's disappearance, it had taken Harold Jones (the sole occupant in the house at the time) a full two minutes to answer the door, with the explanation he had been bathing when she called. When she asked Jones whether he had seen her daughter, he had smiled before replying: \"Florrie's been here, but went through the back way.\"\n\nThe inquest was adjourned until 23 July, with the jury subsequently reaching a unanimous verdict of wilful murder against Harold Jones after just 30 minutes' deliberation. When asked if he had anything to say in relation to this verdict and his being committed to again stand trial at Monmouthshire Assizes for a child murder, Jones—having taken copious notes of the court proceedings—reportedly jumped to his feet and proclaimed his innocence. He was again detained at Usk Prison to await trial.\n\nWhile awaiting trial, Jones formally confessed to the murder of Florence Little via a written statement dated 17 September. In this statement, Jones described his motive for the murder as being a \"desire to kill\".\n\nThe trial of Harold Jones for the murder of Florence Irene Little began at Monmouthshire Assizes on 1 November 1921. He was tried before Mr. Justice Bray, with the prosecution contending this murder had been primarily committed due to Jones having enjoyed being \"a part of the public eye\" due to the attention he had received following his arrest and acquittal of Freda's murder weeks earlier, adding that he had made evident attempts to conceal evidence of the crime within his home after the murder.\n\nThe trial lasted just one hour; Jones was ordered to be detained at His Majesty's pleasure as because he was under 16 at the time of conviction, he could not be subjected to any form of capital punishment.\n\nShortly after Jones was escorted to prison to begin his sentence, a second written statement was read aloud to the court. This statement—also penned prior to his trial—read: \"I, Harold Jones, wilfully and deliberately murdered Freda Burnell in Mortimer's Shed on 5 February 1921. The reason for this act was a desire to kill.\"\n\nHarold Jones served 20 years of his imposed sentence of life imprisonment. Against the recommendations of a psychiatrist, he was released from prison on parole on 6 December 1941 at age 35, and subsequently joined the Merchant Navy. At the conclusion of the Second World War, Jones briefly resided in Newport, although by 1948, he is known to have relocated to Fulham, using the alias Harry Stevens. He later married and fathered a child.\n\nJones died of bone cancer in 1971. At the time of his death, he was employed as a night watchman and living under the alias of Harry Jones, although before he died, he told his wife the name Harold Jones should be placed upon his death certificate.\n\nShortly after the murder of Florence Little, his employer, Herbert Mortimer, closed his shop and relocated with his family from Abertillery to an unknown location. Reportedly, this decision was made due to both a mixture of ostracization from locals regarding the false testimony he had delivered at Jones's trial for the murder of Freda Burnell, and his own guilt that this false testimony had enabled Jones to subsequently remain at liberty and kill again.\n\nBoth Freda Burnell and Florence Little were buried in Brynithel Cemetery. Their graves fell into a state of disrepair over the decades, although a 2017 appeal initiated by a local author named Neil Milkins to restore their graves and headstones raised more than £4,000, he having been inspired to do so after speaking to relatives of both girls, who were upset by the state of disrepair of the graves. The girls' graves were subsequently restored in 2018.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6495545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6495545", "title": "Jerusalem Biblical Zoo", "text": "Jerusalem Biblical Zoo\n\nThe Tisch Family Zoological Gardens in Jerusalem (, '), popularly known as the Jerusalem Biblical Zoo, is a zoo located in the Malha neighborhood of Jerusalem, Israel. It is famous for its Afro-Asiatic collection of wildlife many of which are ascribed in the Hebrew Bible, as well as its success in breeding endangered species. According to Dun and Bradstreet, the Biblical Zoo was the most popular tourist attraction in Israel from 2005 to 2007, and logged a record 738,000 visitors in 2009. The zoo had about 55,000 members in 2009.\n\nThe Jerusalem Biblical Zoo opened in September 1940 as a small \"animal corner\" on Rabbi Kook Street in central Jerusalem. The zoo was founded by Aharon Shulov, a professor of zoology at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Mount Scopus. Among Shulov's goals were to provide a research facility for his students; to gather animals, reptiles and birds mentioned in the Bible; and, as he wrote in 1951, to break down the \"invisible wall\" between the intellectuals on Mount Scopus and the general public.\n\nEarly on, the zoo ran into several difficulties in its decision to focus on animals mentioned in the Bible. For one, the meaning of many names of animals, reptiles and birds in Scriptures is often uncertain; for example, \"nesher\" (), commonly translated as \"eagle\", could also mean \"vulture\". More significantly, many of the animals mentioned in the Bible are now extinct in Israel due to over-hunting, destruction of natural habitats by rapid construction and development, illegal poisoning by farmers, and low birth rate. Zoo planners decided to branch beyond strictly biblical animals and include worldwide endangered species as well.\n\nThe presence of the animal corner generated many complaints from residents in adjoining buildings due to the smell and noise, as well as the perceived danger of animal escapes. Due to the complaints, the zoo relocated in 1941 to a lot on Shmuel HaNavi Street. Here, too, complaints were heard from the neighbors, but the zoo remained at this site for the next six years.\n\nIn 1947 the zoo, which by now had 122 animals, relocated to a plot of land on Mount Scopus provided by Hebrew University. It remained there from 1947 to 1950. Its occupancy coincided with the 1948 Arab-Israeli War and the siege of Jerusalem, when food for the city's population was at a premium. Zookeepers resorted to hunting down stray dogs near garbage dumps in order to feed the carnivorous animals. Many of the carnivores died anyway, and other, non-dangerous species had to be released.\n\nAs part of the Israel-Jordan Armistice Agreements of 1949, access to Mount Scopus was restricted. The United Nations helped the zoo relocate to a lot in Givat Komuna, adjacent to the present-day neighborhoods of Romema and Ezrat Torah. According to Shulov, when the zoo arrived in Romema, only two wolves, one hyena, one lion and one leopard were left.\n\nThe zoo remained in Romema from 1950 to 1991, becoming a beloved Jerusalem institution. About 30 percent of its attendance came from Haredi families from northern Jerusalem and Muslim families from East Jerusalem—two population groups that normally do not participate in the city's cultural offerings. The zoo grew to and more than 200 species, including most of the 130 animals mentioned in the Bible. Thanks to its breeding program, 11 species that had disappeared from Israel were reintroduced into nature reserves around the country, including the Syrian brown bear, the addax, and two types of fallow deer. Through gifts, trades with other zoos, and its success at breeding, the zoo's collection exceeded 500 animals by 1967. During the Six-Day War, however, 110 animals were killed by shrapnel and stray bullets.\n\nThe zoo was administered by a nonprofit corporation with representatives from Hebrew University, the Jerusalem Municipality, and the Israeli Ministries of Tourism and Education. From a financial standpoint, however, the zoo had little money. Shulov, who retired as director in 1983, often served as director without pay. The zoo was also considered inferior to the zoos of Tel Aviv and Haifa.\nJerusalem mayor Teddy Kollek, who took office in 1965, became one of the zoo's main supporters and fund-raisers through his Jerusalem Foundation. Kollek promoted the idea of moving the zoo to a larger location and upgrading it to a state-of-the-art institution, as well as a tourist site that would appeal to secular and religious Jewish families and Arab families alike. Around 1990, under the auspices of the Jerusalem Foundation, the Tisch family of New York agreed to pay $5 million toward the $30 million cost of the project. Another $10 million was raised through sale of the lot in Romema, which was converted to housing. The Jerusalem municipality, the Israel Ministry of Tourism, the Jerusalem Foundation, and private sponsors also contributed. The zoo closed its site in Romema in 1991 and reopened in the Malha valley, southwest of the city center, in 1993.\n\nThe zoo, renamed the Tisch Family Zoological Gardens in Jerusalem, but still called the Jerusalem Biblical Zoo by the general public, opened for a preview period on 28 February 1993. It officially opened on 9 September 1993.\n\nDesigned by Miller-Blum & Associates Landscape Architects, and constructed by the Moriah Jerusalem Development Corporation, the zoo sits on in a valley surrounded by the hillside neighborhoods of Malha and Givat Masua. The park is landscaped with trees and shrubs native to Israel, many of which are mentioned in the Bible.\nThe zoo is built on two main levels. A motorized train takes visitors on a circular route from the lower level to the upper level. The entire park is wheelchair-accessible; each train can also accommodate one wheelchair.\n\nThe centerpiece of the lower level is an artificial lake which includes two islands of monkey exhibits. The lake is fed by a series of pools and waterfalls, beginning at an artificial waterfall called \"Moses' Rock\" (an allusion to the well of Miriam which provided water for the Israelites during their 40-year sojourn in the desert). Water is recycled and pumped back to Moses' Rock through an underground system.\n\nAt the western end of the park stands a two-story, boat-shaped wooden visitor's center meant to resemble Noah's Ark. It contains an auditorium, an art gallery, a gift shop, a snack bar, and computer stations providing information on animals mentioned in the Bible.\nThe zoo operates several snack bars and a coffee shop. Picnic tables and benches are situated throughout the park. There is also an animal-themed jungle gym for children and a sculpture garden containing 23 phantasmagorical animal sculptures decorated with stones, mirrors, and mosaics, which double as climbing toys, designed by French sculptor Niki de Saint Phalle, together with an underground Noah's Ark sculpture designed by Swiss architect Mario Botta. Children can also view 3D films of animals in a small theater near the entrance to the zoo.\n\nThe traditional zoo infrastructure of bars and cages has been replaced by open areas separated from the public by trenches, moats, bridges, and glass windows; outdoor exhibits also have an indoor shelter in case of bad weather. The only areas in which the public has direct contact with the animals are Lemur Land, the \"petting pool\" at the Wet Side Story aquatic exhibit, and the children's zoo, where children can pet and feed pygmy goats, sheep, rabbits and guinea pigs.\nAnimals and birds reside in natural habitats, from an African savannah to a tropical rain forest to the underground world of mice and cockroaches. The lesser kestrel exhibit is designed as a house in Jerusalem's Morasha district, formerly a major nesting ground for these birds. Each animal or bird which is mentioned in the Bible has a biblical verse in Hebrew, Arabic and English appended to its information sign.\n\nBehind the scenes, the zoo operates an animal medical center with surgery, recovery and treatment rooms, a laboratory, and a quarantine unit where incoming animals and zoo animals being sent to other zoos are tested for diseases. This medical center cares for all zoo animals except the elephants, giraffes, rhinoceroses, hippopotamus, and bison, which are treated in their own exhibits.\n\nThe parking lot accommodates 500 vehicles. The city named the street astride the zoo Derech Aharon Shulov (Aharon Shulov Way) after the zoo's founder.\n\nAs of 2009, the zoo housed 2,200 animals representing 271 different species: 60 fish species, 68 mammal species, 28 reptile species, 11 amphibian species, and 104 bird species. Many species were introduced only in the last few years, as the collection numbered 208 species in 2007.\n\nThe massive amount of fruits and vegetables consumed daily by the zoo's animals are acquired free of charge through an agreement Shulov worked out with Israeli companies that tithe their produce in accordance with Jewish law. During the days of the Temple in Jerusalem, \"terumah\", a tithe on agricultural produce, was designated for the kohanim (priests) and their animals. After the destruction of the Temple, the rabbis decreed that the tithed produce could not be used and had to be destroyed. The animals of the Biblical Zoo were symbolically sold to a Kohen so that this tithed produce could be given to them. The animals of the Biblical Zoo receive nearly a ton of the choicest fruits and vegetables every day through a distribution handled by the local religious council. Meat consumed by the carnivores is furnished by kosher butchers, veterinarians, and fishermen. Pruned branches from edible plants in the park, such as date palms, olive trees and carob trees, are also used for fodder.\n\nDuring Passover, the entire zoo is chametz-free. Four to six weeks before the holiday, the animal feed pellets are switched from wheat-based to rice-based ingredients, and after Passover they are gradually switched back to wheat-based.\n\nThe zoo sees its primary goal as the conservation of endangered species. These include animals mentioned in the Bible which are now extinct in Israel, such as the Asian lion, the Syrian brown bear, the Asiatic cheetah, the Nile crocodile, and the Persian fallow deer. It also includes endangered species worldwide, such as the Asian elephant, rare species of macaw, the cockatiel, the ibis, and the golden lion tamarin.\n\nTowards that end, the zoo undertakes to breed animals in captivity and, in some cases, reintroduce them to the wild. Through this program, the zoo has successfully increased the number of Persian fallow deer in Israel. This species was thought to be extinct in the 20th century until a small number of deer were located in Iran in 1956. In 1978, four of these deer were brought to Israel and have since increased to several hundred, with a major breeding colony at the Jerusalem Biblical Zoo. A concurrent project to protect the Negev tortoise from extinction involves breeding from artificially-incubated eggs.\n\nThere is a captive breeding programme for the blind cave shrimp \"Typhlocaris galilea\".\n\nAt the zoo's National Center for Artificial Incubation of Raptor Eggs, eggs of raptors that are either extinct or severely decimated in Israel are incubated from captive-breeding pairs. The griffon vulture, an endangered species, is the subject of much research activity. The zoo has successfully mated vultures with crippled wings – a feat that ornithologists previously thought could not be accomplished because these birds could not balance themselves properly. It has also used two male vultures to hatch and raise chicks from incubated eggs. Additionally, the zoo participates in a countrywide breeding program coordinated by the Israel Nature and Parks Authority to increase the birth rate of griffon vultures in the wild.\n\nThe zoo conducts a small ceremony each time it returns a bird to the wild. In 1996, for the release of a griffon vulture which it named \"Freedom\", the zoo invited the mother of captured Israeli navigator Ron Arad to help release the bird.\nThe zoo is considered a world leader and educator in reproductive intervention. It achieved a major success in December 2005 with the birth of Gabi, the first elephant conceived in Israel through artificial insemination. In conjunction with a team from the Reproduction Management Institute for Zoo Biology and Wildlife Research of Berlin, zoo veterinarians impregnated one of their female elephants, Tamar, with sperm obtained from Emmett, a bull elephant in the Whipsnade Animal Park, Bedfordshire, England. On 10 December 2005, Gabi's six-hour birth was viewed by over 350,000 people in 108 countries via live streaming on the zoo's website.\n\nThe zoo has also pioneered the use of animal birth control. It was the first to use a dart gun to implant a slow-release hormone into the thigh of a female giraffe; she is the daughter of the zoo's bull giraffe, and inbreeding is inadvisable. The zoo uses slow-release hormones to control its chimpanzee and mandrill populations, which are reproducing too quickly for the space they occupy; letting the animals multiply and sending family members to other zoos is unwise, according to veterinarians.\n\nNewborn animals that are threatened or ignored by their parents are raised by the veterinary staff. On 31 December 2008, for example, a newborn tiger cub ignored by its mother was taken home by a staff member to be bottle-fed. A newborn leopard rejected by its mother spent its days at the zoo and nights at veterinarians' homes for its first three and a half months of life.\n\nThe zoo also provides medical treatment for animals and birds injured in the wild. The wildlife is either released back to their natural environment (if they are healthy enough) or placed in other zoos. In the late 2000s, an aviary was built for eagle owls which the zoo is nursing back to health.\n\nPublic education is another prime focus of the zoo. According to Shai Doron, director-general of the zoo since 1993, \"Our moral right to exist comes from educating and raising the awareness of our visitors.\"\n\nMany Israelis, both Jewish and Arab, are not familiar with zoos and get \"overexcited\" at seeing the animals on display. Dozens of zoo personnel man the displays during peak holiday times to stop visitors from throwing food and other items at the animals. The animals do have a preference for Bamba, the popular children's peanut-and-corn snack (though it gives the monkeys diarrhea); other common projectiles include bottles, plastic bags, and children's shoes. In 1997 a toco toucan was found dead in its cage next to pieces of avocado, a known bird toxin. In 2006 a hippopotamus died after swallowing a tennis ball tossed into its enclosure. Over the past decade and a half, the zoo staff claims that public awareness has improved.\n\nThrough visiting school groups, after-school groups, special-education groups and summer camps, children learn about and interact with the animals. Educational activities for children, including the zoo's own youth movement, promote interracial encounters between Arab and Jewish youth. The zoo also mounts a traveling workshop called the Zoomobile, which brings small animals in cages and a sound system carrying the sounds of larger animals to schools, hospitals, and other locations.\n\nThe zoo teaches environmentalism both in its exhibits and by personal example. Since 1997 it has featured an \"ecological maze\" – a short path meandering through high bushes with signs that highlight ecological challenges in Israel. In spring 2010 it unveiled a $1.5 million aquatic exhibit called \"Wet Side Story\" which stresses the importance of water conservation, ecology awareness, and water challenges in the Middle East and around the world. This exhibit displays rare and endangered marine life in 17 large aquariums and three huge water tanks measuring 2 x 4 metres (7 x 14 ft). There is also an outdoor \"petting pool\" where visitors can touch and feed koi.\n\nIn keeping with its \"green\" policy, the zoo maintains its own sewage treatment system and uses recycled water to irrigate its gardens. Food and animal waste are mixed with plant material and placed in large compost piles; the compost is used to fertilize the trees and shrubs. The zoo sells its organic compost in the gift shop. In 2006 receptacles for collecting used plastic drink bottles were installed next to each of the snack bars, and used batteries are collected at the gift shop. To reduce carbon emissions and traffic, the zoo schedules the use of delivery and security vehicles.\n\nThe Jerusalem Biblical Zoo participates in national and international research projects in the fields of zoology, biology, and environmental science, and publishes papers in journals and at scientific meetings. Through its Aharon Shulov Fund for the Study of Animals in Captivity, it also provides grants for research on animal welfare and husbandry, animal reintroduction, reproduction of endangered species, conservation genetics, and exotic animal nutrition and medical care. The Fund is sponsored by Shulov's family, the Friends of the Zoo Association, and the Jerusalem Zoo.\n\nThe zoo hosts academic seminars and student research at the Gabi Center, located in a facility inside the main entrance. The center was named in memory of Dr. Gabi Eshkar, deputy director-general and chief veterinarian of the zoo for over 17 years, who was killed in an automobile accident in 2004.\n\nThe Jerusalem Biblical Zoo is a full member of the European Association of Zoos and Aquaria (EAZA). Zoo director-general Shai Doron is the only EAZA Council Member from Israel in the 2009–2012 season, while general curator Shmulik Yedvab has been EAZA's European Endangered Species Programme project coordinator for the white-tailed sea eagle population of Europe and Asia since 1995. The zoo is also a member of the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums (WAZA), the Israel Zoo Association (which it helped form), and the International Species Information System (ISIS).\n\nMembers of the veterinary staff belong to the American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, the European Association of Zoo and Wildlife Veterinarians, and the European Group on Zoo Animal Contraception.\n\nA record 738,000 people visited the zoo in 2009. The zoo does a brisk business in tourist groups, school groups, and summer camps: over 120,000 visitors arrived in groups in 2009. Included in the total are 63 groups of special-needs children, both Jewish and Arab, who participate in weekly sessions of animal-assisted therapy. Total capacity in the park is 11,000 visitors.\n\nOver 50 volunteers assist zoo operations on a weekly basis. The zoo's youth movement, called \"Tnuat Noach\" (, \"Noah's Movement\"), involves teens aged 13–15 as volunteers in the children's zoo, small animal building, and bird and herbivores sections. Members meet weekly with zoo staff and participate in hikes and expeditions in nature reserves.\n\nIn March 2013 a Zoo Guide application for iPhone and iPad was released, which includes GPS navigation within the zoo, detailed information (written, pictorial and audio) about the animals, and a detailed daily schedule of feedings and events.\n\nThe zoo, which is open every day of the year except Yom Kippur, Yom HaShoah, and Yom Hazikaron, schedules special activities on selected dates. Tree-planting activities are an annual Tu Bishvat tradition. On both days of Purim there is a parade, a family costume competition, and a tug of war between the entire Hapoel Jerusalem Basketball Team and one of the elephants (the elephant always wins). On Israel's Election Day, zoo goers are encouraged to vote for their favorite animal. During the summer, the zoo conducts tours of nocturnal animals in the wee hours of the night. It also schedules jazz concerts, juggling, and workshops during school vacations.\n\nThe master plan for expansion is drafted by the zoo's main planning body, the International Zoological Committee, which is staffed by professionals in wildlife conservation, zoo management, education, tourism and economics. This committee convened in 1993, before the reopening of the zoo, and again in 1996, when it drafted plans for adding additional animal exhibits and visitor attractions by 2010.\n\nNew plans have been drawn up for an educational center and an exhibit called \"Yemei Bereishit\" (In the Days of Genesis) which replicates Biblical conditions and excludes all modern devices, including cell phones. The $30 million project will be paid for by private donations.\n\n"}
{"id": "19985404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19985404", "title": "John de Ferrers, 1st Baron Ferrers of Chartley", "text": "John de Ferrers, 1st Baron Ferrers of Chartley\n\nJohn de Ferrers, 1st Baron Ferrers of Chartley (1271, Cardiff – 1312) was the son of Robert de Ferrers, 6th Earl of Derby and Alianore de Bohun, daughter of Humphrey de Bohun and Eleanor de Braose, and granddaughter of Humphrey de Bohun, 2nd Earl of Hereford. He was both Seneschal of Gascony and Lieutenant of Aquitaine in 1312, the year of his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "21548764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21548764", "title": "Khandaker Nurul Alam", "text": "Khandaker Nurul Alam\n\nKhandaker Nurul Alam (1937 – 22 January 2016) was a Bangladeshi music composer and singer. He won Bangladesh National Film Award for Best Music Director for the films \"Chandranath\" (1984), \"Shuvoda\" (1986), and \"Padma Meghna Jamuna\" (1991). He was awarded Ekushey Padak in 2008 by the Government of Bangladesh for his contribution to Bangladeshi music.\n\nFrom the 1960s, Alam has been active in the music industry. He was the singer and composer of the song \"“Chokh Je Moner Kotha Bole”\" from the film \"“Je Agune Puri”\". He was the composer for films based on the literary works of Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay - \"Devdas\", \"Chandranath\", \"Shuvoda\", \"Biraj Bou\" and others.\n"}
{"id": "6715477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6715477", "title": "Lew Cody", "text": "Lew Cody\n\nLew Cody (born Louis Joseph Côté, February 22, 1884 – May 31, 1934) was an American stage and film actor whose career spanned the silent film and early sound film age. He gained notoriety in the late 1910s for playing \"male vamps\" in films such as \"Don't Change Your Husband.\"\n\nCody was born to Joseph Côté and Elizabeth Côté, née Gifford. His father was French Canadian and his mother was a native of Maine. Cody and his younger brothers and sisters were born in Waterville, Maine. The family later moved to Berlin, New Hampshire where Cody's father owned a drug store. In his youth, Cody worked at his father's drug store as a soda jerk. He later enrolled at McGill University in Montreal where he intended to study medicine but abandoned the idea of setting up in practice and joined a theatre stock company in North Carolina.\n\nHe made his debut on the stage in New York in \"Pierre of the Plains\". Cody later moved to Los Angeles and began a film career with Thomas Ince. Cody had at least 99 film credits during a twenty-year period between 1914 and 1934.\n\nCody was married three times. His first two marriages were to actress Dorothy Dalton. They first married in 1910 and divorced in 1911. They remarried in 1913 and were divorced a second time in 1914. Cody married Mabel Normand in 1926. They remained married until Normand's death from tuberculosis in February 1930.\n\nOn May 31, 1934, Cody died of heart attack in his sleep at his home in Beverly Hills, California. He is buried in St. Peter's Cemetery, Lewiston, Maine in the family plot.\n\n"}
{"id": "5704910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5704910", "title": "List of people assassinated in Africa", "text": "List of people assassinated in Africa\n\nThis is an incomplete list of notable people who have been assassinated, or murdered in Africa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAbudusalam Eduardo 2009\n\nAissatou Boiro (2012)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1435893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1435893", "title": "Little green men", "text": "Little green men\n\nLittle green men is the stereotypical portrayal of extraterrestrials as little humanoid-like creatures with green skin and sometimes with antennae on their heads. The term is also sometimes used to describe gremlins, mythical creatures known for causing problems in airplanes and mechanical devices. Today, these creatures are more commonly associated with an alleged alien species called greys, whose skin color is described as not green, but grey.\n\nDuring the reports of flying saucers in the 1950s, the term \"little green men\" came into popular usage in reference to aliens. In one classic case, the Kelly-Hopkinsville sighting in 1955, two rural Kentucky men described a supposed encounter with metallic-silver, somewhat humanoid-looking aliens no more than in height. Employing journalistic licence and deviating from the witnesses' accounts, many newspaper articles used the term \"little green men\" in writing up the story.\n\nUsage of the term clearly predates the 1955 incident; for example, in England reference to little green men or children dates back to the 12th century green children of Woolpit, though exactly when the term was first applied to extraterrestrial aliens has been difficult to pin down. Folklore researcher Chris Aubeck has used electronic searches of old newspapers and found a number of instances dating from around the turn of the 20th century referring to green aliens. Aubeck found one story from 1899 in the \"Atlanta Constitution\", about a little green-skinned alien, in a tale called \"Green Boy From Hurrah\", \"Hurrah\" being another planet, perhaps Mars. Edgar Rice Burroughs referred to the \"green men of Mars\" and \"green Martian women\" in his first 1912 science fiction novel \"A Princess of Mars\", though at 10 to 12 feet tall, they were hardly \"little\". However, the first use of the specific phrase \"little green man\" in reference to extraterrestrials that Aubeck found dates to 1908 in the \"Daily Kennebec Journal\" (Augusta, Maine), in this case the aliens again being Martians. In 1910 (or 1915), a \"little green man\" was allegedly captured from his crashed spaceship in Apulia, in south-east Italy.\n\nGreen aliens soon came to commonly portray extraterrestrials and adorned the covers of many of the 1920s to 1950s science fiction pulp magazines with pictures of Buck Rogers and Flash Gordon battling green alien monsters. The first documented print example specifically linking \"little green men\" to extraterrestrial spaceships is in a newspaper column satirizing the public panic following Orson Welles' famous War of the Worlds Halloween broadcast of October 31, 1938. The column by reporter Bill Barnard in the Corpus Christi \"Times\" the next day begins, \"Thirteen little green men from Mercury stepped out of their space ship at Cliff Maus Field [local airport] late yesterday afternoon for a good-will visit to Corpus Christi\" and ends with, \"Then the 13 little green men got in their space ship and flew away.\" The familiarity with which the term was used suggests that this probably was not the first instance where it was applied to extraterrestrials in spaceships.\n\nIn 1946, Harold M. Sherman published a pulp science fiction book entitled \"The Green Man: A Visitor From Space\". The cover illustration was of a normal-looking and proportioned human being, albeit with a green skin. Nationally syndicated columns by humorist Hal Boyle spoke of a green man from Mars in his flying saucer in early July 1947 during the height of the brand new flying saucer phenomenon in the U.S. that started June 24 after Kenneth Arnold's famous sighting and the Roswell UFO incident. However, Boyle did not describe his green Martian as \"small\".\n\nIn 1951, a science fiction book titled \"The Case of the Little Green Men\" was published by Mack Reynolds, telling of a private detective hired to investigate disguised aliens living among the human population. As he was being hired, the detective referred derisively and familiarly to the aliens in the flying saucers being \"little green men\". The cover illustration is notable for depicting the LGM with the classic antennae sticking out of the head. Mack Reynolds would go on to write the first \"Star Trek\" novel in 1968 (\"Mission to Horatius\").\n\nBy early 1950, stories began circulating in newspapers about little beings being recovered from flying saucer crashes. Though largely considered to be hoaxes, some of the stories from the sources about little aliens eventually made it into the popular 1950 book \"Behind the Flying Saucers\" by Variety magazine columnist Frank Scully.\n\nA witness reporting a flying saucer sighting to a Wichita, Kansas newspaper in June 1950 stated that he saw \"absolutely no little green men with egg on their whiskers\".\n\nSimilarly, electronic searches show that \"little green men\" was specifically used in reference to science fiction and flying saucers by at least 1951 in the \"New York Times\" and \"Washington Post\" (in the \"Post\", a book review of a mystery/science fiction novel called \"The Little Green Man\"), and 1952 in the \"Los Angeles Times\" and the \"Chicago Tribune\" (the \"Tribune\" mocking flying saucer reports using a \"little green man with pink polka dots\"). The next example of the \"New York Times\" using the term dates from 1955 in a book review of a sci-fi satire called \"Martians, Go Home\". The Martians were obnoxious \"little green men\" whose appearance was \"true to prophecy\".\n\nIn a later example, following a nationally publicized flurry of UFO sightings in November 1957, syndicated Washington columnist Frederick Othman wrote: \"New Flying Saucer Epidemic On. All over this land again are flying saucers ... No little green men have climbed out of these celestial vehicles so far, but in another couple of days I wouldn't be surprised ...\"\n\nThe term also shows up much earlier in other contexts. Movie gossip columnist Hedda Hopper used it in 1939 referring to small cast members of the Wizard of Oz, and admonished against drinking on the set. In 1942, the \"Los Angeles Times\" used the term in a pictorial on Marines training for jungle combat. In this case, \"little green men\" referred to camouflaged Japanese soldiers. The \"Washington Post\" in 1942 likewise used the term \"little green man\" in reference to a camouflaged Japanese sniper who nearly killed one of their war correspondents.\n\nBefore its more modern application to aliens, \"little green men\" was commonly used to describe various supernatural beings in old legends and folklore and in later fairy tales and children's books such as goblins. Aubeck noted several examples of the latter in 19th and early 20th century literature. As an example, Rudyard Kipling had a \"little green man\" in \"Puck of Pook's Hill\" from 1906.\n\nAnother example, and the earliest use of \"little green man\" in the \"New York Times\" and \"Chicago Tribune\", dates from 1902, in a review of a children's book called \"The Gift of the Magic Staff\", where a supernatural \"Little Green Man\" is a boy's friend and helps him visit the cloudland fairies. The next use in the \"New York Times\" was in 1950, and references a planned movie by Walt Disney Corporation of a 1927 novel by poet/novelist Robert Nathan called \"The Woodcutter's House\". The only animated character in the picture was to be Nathan's \"Little Green Man\", a confidant of the woodland animals. (The movie was never made.)\n\nIn 1923, a serialized romance, \"When Hearts Command\" by Elizabeth York Miller, which appeared in newspapers such as the \"Chicago Tribune\" and \"Washington Post\", has a former mental patient who still sees \"little green men\" and who simultaneously comments that a fellow patient \"conversed with the inhabitants of Mars\".\n\nOther instances of imaginary small green beings have been found in a newspaper column from 1936 sarcastically discussing doctors and their medical advice, saying these are the same people who have breakdowns in middle age and start hallucinating \"a little green man with big ears\". Syndicated columnist Sydney J. Harris used \"little green man\" in 1948 as a child's imaginary friend while condemning the age-old tradition of frightening children with stories of \"boogeymen\".\n\nThese examples illustrate that use of \"little green men\" was already deeply engrained in English vernacular long before the flying saucer era, used for a variety of supernatural, imaginary, or mythical beings. It also seems to have easily extended beyond the imaginary to real people, such as the reference to small actors in the \"Wizard of Oz\" or camouflaged Japanese soldiers. Similarly, Aubeck and others suspect that when flying saucers came along in 1947, with subsequent speculation about alien origins, the term naturally and quickly attached itself to the modern age equivalent. It is also clear that by the early 1950s, the term was already commonly used as a sarcastic reference to the occupants of flying saucers. By 1954, the image of little green men had become inscribed in the public's collective consciousness.\n\nFurther electronic searches suggest that the term became increasingly more common in the 1960s and always used in a derisive or humorous way. The \"Chicago Tribune\" in 1960 carried a front-page story on the speculations of a Harvard anthropologist about how aliens might look and alien sex. The article opens with the comment, \"If there really are 'little green men' out there in space, there are probably also little green women–and sex.\" A cartoon was attached showing two amorous centaur-like male and female aliens with antennae sticking out of their heads. The article also enigmatically states, \"The 'little green men' designation came from Dr. Otto Struve, director of the national radio astronomy observatory, Green Bank, W. Va. He said that's what the possible outerspacers are called 'among themselves'.\"\n\nThe term even penetrated into the commentary of the \"Wall Street Journal\". First use in the \"Journal\" was 1960 in an article on the Brookings Report commissioned by NASA, studying the possible social effects of the discovery of extraterrestrial life. The \"Journal\" commented that they thought the report overly pessimistic, assuming that \"the little green men with the wiggly antennae\" would be hostile. Another \"Journal\" use of the term occurred in 1968 in an editorial on a planned Congressional investigation of UFOs. The writer sarcastically asked how they planned to subpoena \"a little green man\". In 1969, they commented that the Condon Committee UFO study commissioned by the Air Force was a waste of money. The editorial stated that even if they did prove that \"UFOs were people with little green men\", what were we supposed to do about it?\n\nBy 1965, a little green man had even appeared in \"The Flintstones\" as a recurring character. The Great Gazoo (introduced in Episode 145) typified the representation of a little green man with his short, green stature and helmet with antennae. However, the 1960s also marked a transition in the way people imagined a stereotypical alien. In alien abduction stories they are often small but grey beings and in Arthur C. Clarke's \"\" (1968) they are unseen.\n\nLittle green aliens and the term \"little green men\" have fallen out of general use in serious science fiction circles and are typically only used by the uninformed or to ridicule the notion that aliens may exist, with a few exceptions, such as Yoda in the Star Wars movie saga. A derisive usage can be seen in the episode \"Tomorrow Is Yesterday\", set in 1969, as Captain Kirk, captured by the US Air Force while attempting to steal film showing the \"Enterprise\" in Earth's atmosphere, calls himself a \"little green man from Alpha Centauri\" when interrogated by the base security officer. Earlier in the same episode, a rescued Air Force captain brought aboard the \"Enterprise\" tells Kirk he's never believed in little green men, immediately before meeting the greenish-tinged Mr. Spock (who replies, \"Neither have I\"). In the 1988 Doctor Who Serial \"Remembrance of the Daleks\", the line is parodied when the Doctor states that the Daleks are aliens. Group Captain Gilmore asks if he's fighting little green men, to which the Doctor says \"no, little green blobs in bonded polycarbide armour\".\n\nInstead, the little green alien image seems to have migrated mainly to the world of children's media where it can still be found in abundance (e.g. the small, green \"squeeze toy aliens\" in the 1995 film \"Toy Story\" and its sequels).\n\nThe \"Pokémon\" species \"Elgyem\" is based on little green men (\"LGM\") in its design, characteristics, and name.\n\nThe Irkens from \"Invader Zim\" bear a similarity to green little men.\n\nIn the space-simulation game \"Kerbal Space Program\", Kerbals are the only species in the game and are portrayed as little green men with a large head compared to their bodies.\n\nThe uniformed \"local self-defence\" forces, equipped with camouflage and modern Russian weaponry but lacking identifying badges or insignia, operating during the 2014 Russian military intervention in Ukraine were also called \"martians\" or \"little green men\" by the locals and the media.\n\nIn 1967, Jocelyn Bell Burnell and Antony Hewish of the University of Cambridge, UK dubbed the first discovered pulsar LGM-1 for \"little green men\" because the regular oscillations of its signal suggested a possible intelligent origin. Its designation was later changed to CP 1919, and is now known as PSR B1919+21.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10028587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10028587", "title": "Murder of George Duncan", "text": "Murder of George Duncan\n\nDr. George Ian Ogilvie Duncan (20 July 1930 – 10 May 1972) was an Australian law lecturer at the University of Adelaide who drowned on 10 May 1972 after being thrown into the River Torrens by a group of men believed to be police officers. Public outrage generated by the murder became the trigger for homosexual law reform which led to South Australia becoming the first Australian state to decriminalise homosexuality.\n\nGeorge Duncan was born on 20 July 1930 at Golders Green, London, the only child of New Zealand-born parents Ronald Ogilvie Duncan (d.1952) and his second wife Hazel Kerr née Martell (d.1944). Emigrating to Victoria in 1937, Duncan attended Melbourne Grammar School, graduating dux in 1947.\n\nWhile taking an honours degree in classical philology at the University of Melbourne, Duncan's studies were interrupted in 1950 after contracting tuberculosis. In 1957, Duncan entered St John's College, Cambridge, where he was awarded a number of degrees including B.A. in 1960; a Bachelor of Laws in 1961; an M.A. in 1963 and a Ph.D. in 1964. From 1966 to 1971, he taught law part-time at the University of Bristol and published his doctoral thesis in 1971.\n\nRelatively wealthy, Duncan returned to Australia on 25 March 1972 to take up a lectureship in law at the University of Adelaide, moving into Lincoln College in North Adelaide. Six weeks later he was thrown from the southern bank of the River Torrens, near Kintore Avenue, and drowned.\n\nAs homosexuality was still illegal in South Australia at that time, the banks of the Torrens River, or \"Number 1 beat\" as it was then known, was a popular place for gay men to meet. Around 11.00 p.m. on 10 May 1972, Duncan and Roger James were both thrown into the river and Duncan drowned. James suffered a broken ankle and after crawling to the road, was rescued by a passing driver, Bevan Spencer von Einem, who then took him to the Royal Adelaide Hospital. By the time a television crew arrived, Duncan's body had already been pulled from the river by police. The body was returned to the river to allow the crew to film its recovery.\n\nGeorge Duncan is buried in Centennial Park Cemetery.\n\nJames declined to identify his attackers and the Premier of South Australia, Don Dunstan, offered government protection to witnesses after it was reported that they feared for their lives. Within days of the murder it was suspected that the group of men who killed Duncan were three senior Vice Squad police officers. Witnesses claimed that the detectives were also accompanied by a tall civilian who was never identified. The detectives were called upon to give evidence at the Coronial Inquiry but they refused to answer any of the questions put to them and were subsequently suspended from duty and eventually resigned. The coroner returned an open finding on 5 July 1972. The subsequent police investigation, which called the incident \"a frolic\", failed to find sufficient evidence to prosecute any of the officers.\n\nPublic debate was so great that Premier Dunstan permitted police commissioner, Harold Salisbury, to call in detectives from New Scotland Yard, London, to investigate the murder. Their report, which has never been made public, led to the crown solicitor announcing on 24 October 1972 that he had decided against proceeding with any prosecution.\n\nOn 30 July 1985 former Vice Squad officer Mick O'Shea told \"The Advertiser\" newspaper that the group involved were Vice Squad officers and that there was a cover-up to protect them. On 5 February 1986 three former Vice Squad officers, Brian Hudson, Francis Cawley and Michael Clayton, were charged with the manslaughter of Dr. Duncan. Cawley and Clayton eventually went to trial in 1988 with both being acquitted of the charges on 30 September after refusing to testify. During the trial, O'Shea made specific allegations that it was a common practice for Vice Squad officers to throw homosexuals into the river, that certain members assaulted homosexuals and that on one occasion they had chased an individual while firing shots. A further allegation was later raised that there had been an attempt to influence a juror to find the two officers charged not guilty. A police task force was set up, reporting to Parliament in 1990 that there was insufficient evidence to charge any person with the murder. Repeated calls for a Royal Commission have been ignored.\n\nThe murder attracted national media coverage and public outrage resulted in Duncan being held up as a martyr by the Gay Rights movement. As a result of the media attention, Murray Hill, a Liberal Party member of the Legislative Council, introduced a bill on 26 July 1972 to amend the Criminal Law Consolidation Act (1935–1971) that criminalised homosexuality. The amendment was assented to on 9 November 1972, however, a further amendment weakened it to only allow a legal defence for homosexual acts committed in private. In 1973 the Labor Member for Elizabeth, Peter Duncan, introduced the Criminal Law (Sexual Offences) Bill into Parliament which, although passed by the Lower House, was defeated twice in the Legislative Council. On 27 August 1975 the unaltered bill was again introduced, defeated, reintroduced, defeated, reintroduced a third time and passed, all on the same day, making South Australia the first Australian State to fully decriminalise homosexuality.\n\nOn 10 May 2002, the 30th anniversary of Duncan's death, a memorial monument was erected near the site of the murder.Memorial Inscription—\"In memory of Dr George Duncan, whose death by drowning on 10th May, 1972, near here, at the hands of persons unconvicted, precipitated homosexual law reform in South Australia, making it the first state in Australia in 1975 to decriminalise homosexual relations.\"\nAlso on 10 May, Radio Adelaide broadcast a feature documentary \"The Killing of Dr George\". On 1 October, the South Australia Institute of Justice Studies awarded a special commendation to Radio Adelaide, praising the documentary for its historical significance and inclusion of comment from people who had been gay activists at the time of Duncan's death.\n\nThe National George Duncan Memorial Award was inaugurated in 2004. The award is presented for an outstanding piece of work contributing to legal reform and the betterment of the Australian lesbian, gay, queer, bisexual, transgender or intersex community.\n"}
{"id": "1623115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1623115", "title": "Murder of Jean McConville", "text": "Murder of Jean McConville\n\nJean McConville (\"née\" Murray; 7 May 1934 – December 1972) was a woman from Belfast, Northern Ireland, who was kidnapped and murdered by the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) and illicitly buried in County Louth in the Republic of Ireland in 1972 after being wrongly accused by the IRA of passing information to British forces.\n\nIn 1999, the IRA acknowledged that it had killed McConville and eight others of the \"Disappeared\". It claimed she had been passing information about republicans to the British Army in exchange for money and that a transmitter had been found in her apartment. A report by the Police Ombudsman found no evidence for this or other rumours.\n\nBefore the Troubles, the IRA had a policy of killing informers within its own ranks; however, from the start of the conflict the term informer was also used for civilians who were suspected of providing information on paramilitary organisations to the security forces. Other Irish republican and loyalist paramilitaries also carried out such killings. As she was a widowed mother of ten, the McConville killing was particularly controversial. Her body was not found until 2003, and the crime has not been solved. The Police Ombudsman found that the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) did not begin to investigate the disappearance properly until 1995.\n\nJean Murray was born on 7 May 1934 to a Protestant family in East Belfast but converted after marrying Arthur McConville, a Catholic former British Army soldier, with whom she had ten children. After being intimidated out of a Protestant district by loyalists in 1969, the McConville family moved to West Belfast's Divis Flats in the Lower Falls Road. Arthur died from cancer in January 1972.\n\nAt the time of her death, Jean McConville lived at 1A St Jude's Walk, which was part of the Divis Flats complex. This was an IRA stronghold, from which attacks were regularly launched against the British Army and RUC. Since the death of her husband, she had been raising their ten children, who were aged between six and twenty. Their son Robbie was a member of the Official IRA and was interned in Long Kesh at the time of her death; he would defect to the Irish National Liberation Army (INLA) in 1974.\n\nIn the months leading up to her death, tension and suspicion grew between McConville and her neighbours. One night shortly before her disappearance, she was allegedly attacked after leaving a bingo hall and warned to stop giving information to the British Army. According to police records, on 29 November 1972 a British Army unit found a distressed woman wandering in the street. She told them her name was McConville and that she had been attacked and warned to stop informing. One of McConville's children claimed she was kidnapped the night after this incident, but others gave the date of the kidnapping as 7 December.\n\nOn the night of her disappearance, four young women took McConville from her home at gunpoint, and she was driven to an unknown location. Dolours Price claimed that she was one of those involved in driving her across the border. McConville was killed by a gunshot to the back of the head, there was no evidence of any other injuries to her body.\nHer body was secretly buried across the border on Shellinghill Beach (also known as Templetown Beach) on the Cooley Peninsula in the north of County Louth, about 50 miles from her home. The place of her death is uncertain.\n\nAlthough no group admitted responsibility for her disappearance, there were rumours that the IRA had killed her for being an informer. Another rumour is that she was killed because neighbours claimed they saw her helping a badly wounded British soldier outside her home; however, there is no record of such an incident. McConville's children say they recall her helping a wounded British soldier some time before their father died in January 1972. In a 2014 interview published in the \"Sunday Life\", former Irish republican Evelyn Gilroy claimed the person who had tended to the soldier was her [Gilroy's] sister.\n\nThe IRA did not admit involvement until after the signing of the Good Friday Agreement. It claimed she was killed because she was passing information about republicans to the British Army. Former IRA member Brendan Hughes claimed the IRA had searched her flat some time before her death and found a radio transmitter, which they confiscated. He and other former republicans interrogated her and claimed she admitted the British Army was paying her for information about republicans. Hughes claims that, because of her circumstances, they let her go with a warning. However, he claims when the IRA found she had resumed working for the British Army, it decided to \"execute\" her.\n\nUsually the bodies of informers were left in public as a warning, but the IRA secretly buried McConville, apparently because she was a widowed mother-of-ten. The IRA had first done this two months earlier, when it killed and buried two IRA members who were found to be working undercover for the British Military Reaction Force (MRF).\n\nAfter her disappearance, McConville's seven youngest children, including six-year-old twins, survived on their own in the flat, cared for by their 15-year-old sister Helen. According to the family, after three weeks, the hungry family was visited by a stranger, who gave them Jean's purse, with 52 pence and her three rings in it.\n\nOn 16 January 1973, the story of the abduction appeared on the front page of the \"Belfast Telegraph\", under the headline \"Snatched mother missing a month\". The following day, the children were interviewed on the BBC television programme \"Scene Around Six\". The children reported to the social services, and were immediately brought into local council care. The family was split up by social services. Among the consequences of the killing, Jean's orphaned son Billy was sent to De La Salle Boys' Home, Rubane House, Kircubbin, County Down, notorious for child abuse; he testified in 2014 to the Northern Ireland Historical Institutional Abuse Inquiry, describing repeated sexual and physical abuse, and starvation, saying \"Christians looking after young boys – maybe they were Christians, but to me they were devils disguised in that uniform.\"\n\nWithin two days of her kidnapping, one of her sons reported the incident to the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) and the British Army. However, the Police Ombudsman did not find any trace of an investigation into the kidnapping during the 1970s or 1980s. An officer told the Ombudsman that CID investigations in that area of Belfast at that time were \"restricted to the most serious cases\". On 2 January 1973, the RUC received two pieces of information stating: \"it is rumoured that Jean McConville had been abducted by the [IRA] because she is an informer\".\n\nIn March 1973, information was received from the British Army, saying the kidnapping was an elaborate hoax and that McConville had left of her own free will. As a result, the RUC refused to accept that McConville was missing, preferring to believe an anonymous tip that she had absconded with a British soldier. The first investigation into her kidnapping appears to have taken place in 1995, when a team of RUC detectives was established to review the cases of all those who were thought to have been kidnapped during the conflict.\n\nIn 1999, the IRA gave information on the whereabouts of her body. This prompted a prolonged search, co-ordinated by the Garda Síochána, the Irish police service, but no body was found. On the night of 26 August 2003, a storm washed away part of the embankment supporting the west side of Shellinghill Beach car park, near the site of previous searches. This exposed the body. On 27 August, it was found by passersby while they were walking on Shellinghill Beach (also known as Templetown Beach) in County Louth at the eastern tip of the Cooley Peninsula. McConville was subsequently reburied beside her husband Arthur in Holy Trinity Graveyard in Lisburn.\n\nIn April 2004 the inquest into McConville's death returned a verdict of unlawful killing.\n\nIn 2006 the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland, Nuala O'Loan, published a report about the police's investigation of the murder. It concluded that the RUC did not investigate the murder until 1995, when it carried out a minor investigation. It found no evidence that she had been an informer, but recommended the British Government go against its long-standing policy regarding informers and reveal whether she was one. Journalist Ed Moloney called for the British Government to release war diaries relating to the Divis Flats area at the time. War diaries are usually released under the thirty-year rule, but those relating to Divis at the time of McConville's death are embargoed for almost ninety years.\n\nThe police have since apologised for its failure to investigate her abduction. In January 2005, Sinn Féin party chairman Mitchel McLaughlin claimed that the killing of McConville was not a crime, saying that she had been executed as a spy in a war situation. This prompted Irish journalist Fintan O'Toole to write a rebuttal, arguing that the abduction and extrajudicial killing of McConville was clearly a \"war crime by all accepted national and international standards\". The IRA has since issued a general apology, saying it \"regrets the suffering of all the families whose loved ones were killed and buried by the IRA\".\n\nIn August 2006, the Chief Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI), Sir Hugh Orde, stated that he was not hopeful anyone would be brought to justice over the murder, saying \"[in] any case of that age, it is highly unlikely that a successful prosecution could be mounted.\"\n\nBoston College had launched an oral history project on the Troubles in 2001. It recorded interviews with republicans and loyalists about their involvement in the conflict, on the understanding that the tapes would not be released until after their deaths. Two of the republican interviewees, Brendan Hughes and Dolours Price, both now deceased, admitted they were involved in McConville's kidnapping. Both became diehard opponents of the Good Friday Agreement and Sinn Féin's support of it. They saw Sinn Féin president Gerry Adams as a traitor for negotiating the Agreement and persuading the IRA to end its campaign.\n\nIn 2010, after Hughes's death, some of his statements were published in the book \"Voices from the Grave\". He claimed McConville had admitted being an informer, and that Adams ordered her disappearance. In a 2010 newspaper article, Price also claimed McConville was an informer and that Adams ordered her disappearance, which has been strenuously denied by Ed Moloney. Price, who died in 2013, said she gave the interviews as revenge against Adams. Former republican prisoner Evelyn Gilroy, who lived near McConville, claimed Adams was an IRA commander and the only person who could have ordered the killing.\n\nAdams has denied any role in the death of McConville. He said \"the killing of Jean McConville and the secret burial of her body was wrong and a grievous injustice to her and her family\".\n\nIn 2011, the PSNI began a legal bid to gain access to the tapes. Acting on a request from the PSNI, the United States Justice Department tried to force Boston College to hand them over. Boston College had promised those interviewed that the tapes would not be released until after their deaths, and other interviewees said they feared retribution if the tapes were released. Following a lengthy court battle, the PSNI was given transcripts of interviews by Hughes and Price.\n\nIn March and April 2014, the PSNI arrested a number of people over the kidnapping and killing of Jean McConville. Ivor Bell, former IRA Chief of Staff, was arrested in March 2014. Shortly afterwards, he was charged with aiding and abetting in her murder. In April, the PSNI arrested three people who were teenagers at the time of the kidnapping: a 56-year-old man and two women, aged 57 and 60. All were released without charge.\n\nFollowing Bell's arrest in March, there was media speculation that police would want to question Gerry Adams due to the claims made by Hughes and Price. Adams maintained he was not involved, but had his solicitor contact the PSNI to find whether they wanted to question him. On 30 April, after being contacted by the PSNI, Adams voluntarily arranged to be interviewed at Antrim PSNI Station. He was arrested and questioned for four days before being released without charge. A file was sent to the Public Prosecution Service (PPS) to decide whether further action should be taken, but there was \"insufficient evidence\" to charge him.\n\nThe arrest took place during an election campaign. Sinn Féin claimed that the timing of the arrest was politically motivated; an attempt to harm the party's chances in the upcoming elections. Alex Maskey said it was evidence of a \"political agenda [...] a negative agenda\" by elements of the PSNI.\n\nJean McConville's family had campaigned for the arrest of Adams over the murder. Her son Michael said \"Me and the rest of my brothers and sisters are just glad to see the PSNI doing their job. We didn't think it would ever take place [Mr Adams' arrest], but we are quite glad that it is taking place.\" In a later interview on the \"Today\" programme on BBC Radio 4, he stated that he knew the names of those who had abducted and killed his mother, but that: \"I wouldn't tell the police [PSNI]. If I told the police now a thing, me or one of my family members or one of my children would get shot by those [IRA] people. It's terrible that we know those people and we can't bring them to justice.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2994444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2994444", "title": "Mutnedjmet", "text": "Mutnedjmet\n\nMutnedjmet \"(Mutnedjemet, Mutnodjmet, Mutnodjemet)\" an Ancient Egyptian queen, the Great Royal Wife of Horemheb, the last ruler of the Eighteenth Dynasty. The name, Mutnedjmet, translates as: \"The sweet Mut.\"\n\nMutnedjemet's titles include: Hereditary Princess (\"iryt-p`t\"), Great King’s Wife (\"hmt-niswt-wrt\"), Great of Praises (\"wrt-hzwt\"), Lady of Grace (\"nbt-im3t\"), Sweet of Love (\"bnrt-mrwt\"), Mistress of Upper and Lower Egypt (\"hnwt-Shm’w -mhw\"), Songstress of Hathor (\"hsyt-nt-hwt-hrw\"), and Songstress of Amun (\"Sm’yt-nt-imnw\") \n\nSome Egyptologists have speculated that Mutnedjemet is identical to Nefertiti's sister Mutbenret. This identification was partially based on the fact that Mutbenret's name used to be read as Mutnedjmet. Other Egyptologist such as Geoffrey Martin note that there is no definite evidence to prove this assertion. Martin writes that:\n\nMutnedjmet is known from several object and inscriptions:\n\nMutnedjmet died soon after Year 13 of her husband's rule in her mid-40s based on a wine-jar docket found in a burial chamber of Horemheb tomb at Saqqara, in Memphis and a statue and other items of hers found here. The mummy was found in King Horemheb's unused Memphite tomb along with the mummy of a still-born, premature infant. She appears to have been buried in the Memphite tomb of Horemheb, alongside his first wife Amenia. Mutnedjmet's mummy shows she had given birth several times, but the last King of the 18th dynasty did not have a living heir at the time of his demise. It has been suggested that she had a daughter who was simply not mentioned on any monuments. The presence of the infant along with Mutnedjmet in the tomb suggests that this queen died in childbirth. A canopic jar of the Queen is now located in the British Museum.\n\nIt is possible that the tomb QV33 in the Valley of the Queens was originally built for her. The tomb is known as the tomb of an otherwise unknown Tanedjmet, but both cartouches with her name are damaged and the similar hieroglyphs for \"ta\" and \"mut\" allow for this interpretation.\n\n"}
{"id": "216235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216235", "title": "Natural order (philosophy)", "text": "Natural order (philosophy)\n\nIn philosophy, the natural order is the moral source from which natural law seeks to derive its authority. Natural order encompasses the natural relations of beings to one another in the absence of law, which natural law attempts to reinforce. This is related to Dharma.\n\nIn contrast, divine law seeks authority from God, and positive law seeks authority from government.\n\nThe term is used by Hans-Hermann Hoppe in his book, \"\", to defend anarcho-capitalism.\n\nThe term is used by Friedrich Hayek in his writings.\n\n"}
{"id": "10958665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10958665", "title": "Necessary But Not Sufficient", "text": "Necessary But Not Sufficient\n\nNecessary But Not Sufficient is a 2000 novel authored by Dr. Eliyahu Goldratt and co-authors Eli Schrangenheim and Carol A. Ptak and published by the North River Press, which has previously published most of Goldratt's works. Necessary but not Sufficient is written as a \"business novel\" and shows the fictional application of the Theory of Constraints to Enterprise resource planning (ERP) and operations software and organizations using that software. The fourth of five published Goldratt business novels, this one does not share any of the settings or characters of the previous three novels (only \"The Goal\" and \"It's Not Luck\" shared the same characters). \n\n\"Technology is a necessary condition, but it's not sufficient. To get the benefits at the time that we install the new technology, we must also change the rules that recognize the existence of the limitation.\" (p. 125)\n"}
{"id": "1729542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1729542", "title": "Neural network", "text": "Neural network\n\nA neural network is a network or circuit of neurons, or in a modern sense, an artificial neural network, composed of artificial neurons or nodes. Thus a neural network is either a biological neural network, made up of real biological neurons, or an artificial neural network, for solving artificial intelligence (AI) problems. The connections of the biological neuron are modeled as weights. A positive weight reflects an excitatory connection, while negative values mean inhibitory connections. All inputs are modified by a weight and summed. This activity is referred as a linear combination. Finally, an activation function controls the amplitude of the output. For example, an acceptable range of output is usually between 0 and 1, or it could be −1 and 1.\n\nUnlike von Neumann model computations, artificial neural networks do not separate memory and processing and operate via the flow of signals through the net connections, somewhat akin to biological networks.\n\nThese artificial networks may be used for predictive modeling, adaptive control and applications where they can be trained via a dataset. Self-learning resulting from experience can occur within networks, which can derive conclusions from a complex and seemingly unrelated set of information.\n\nA biological neural network is composed of a group or groups of chemically connected or functionally associated neurons. A single neuron may be connected to many other neurons and the total number of neurons and connections in a network may be extensive. Connections, called synapses, are usually formed from axons to dendrites, though dendrodendritic synapses and other connections are possible. Apart from the electrical signaling, there are other forms of signaling that arise from neurotransmitter diffusion.\n\nArtificial intelligence, cognitive modelling, and neural networks are information processing paradigms inspired by the way biological neural systems process data. Artificial intelligence and cognitive modeling try to simulate some properties of biological neural networks. In the artificial intelligence field, artificial neural networks have been applied successfully to speech recognition, image analysis and adaptive control, in order to construct software agents (in computer and video games) or autonomous robots.\n\nHistorically, digital computers evolved from the von Neumann model, and operate via the execution of explicit instructions via access to memory by a number of processors. On the other hand, the origins of neural networks are based on efforts to model information processing in biological systems. Unlike the von Neumann model, neural network computing does not separate memory and processing.\n\nNeural network theory has served both to better identify how the neurons in the brain function and to provide the basis for efforts to create artificial intelligence.\n\nThe preliminary theoretical base for contemporary neural networks was independently proposed by Alexander Bain (1873) and William James (1890). In their work, both thoughts and body activity resulted from interactions among neurons within the brain. \nFor Bain, every activity led to the firing of a certain set of neurons. When activities were repeated, the connections between those neurons strengthened. According to his theory, this repetition was what led to the formation of memory. The general scientific community at the time was skeptical of Bain’s theory because it required what appeared to be an inordinate number of neural connections within the brain. It is now apparent that the brain is exceedingly complex and that the same brain “wiring” can handle multiple problems and inputs. \n\nJames’s theory was similar to Bain’s, however, he suggested that memories and actions resulted from electrical currents flowing among the neurons in the brain. His model, by focusing on the flow of electrical currents, did not require individual neural connections for each memory or action. \n\nC. S. Sherrington (1898) conducted experiments to test James’s theory. He ran electrical currents down the spinal cords of rats. However, instead of demonstrating an increase in electrical current as projected by James, Sherrington found that the electrical current strength decreased as the testing continued over time. Importantly, this work led to the discovery of the concept of habituation. \nMcCulloch and Pitts (1943) created a computational model for neural networks based on mathematics and algorithms. They called this model threshold logic. The model paved the way for neural network research to split into two distinct approaches. One approach focused on biological processes in the brain and the other focused on the application of neural networks to artificial intelligence. \n\nIn the late 1940s psychologist Donald Hebb created a hypothesis of learning based on the mechanism of neural plasticity that is now known as Hebbian learning. Hebbian learning is considered to be a 'typical' unsupervised learning rule and its later variants were early models for long term potentiation. These ideas started being applied to computational models in 1948 with Turing's B-type machines.\n\nFarley and Clark (1954) first used computational machines, then called calculators, to simulate a Hebbian network at MIT. Other neural network computational machines were created by Rochester, Holland, Habit, and Duda (1956).\n\nRosenblatt (1958) created the perceptron, an algorithm for pattern recognition based on a two-layer learning computer network using simple addition and subtraction. With mathematical notation, Rosenblatt also described circuitry not in the basic perceptron, such as the exclusive-or circuit, a circuit whose mathematical computation could not be processed until after the backpropagation algorithm was created by Werbos (1975).\n\nNeural network research stagnated after the publication of machine learning research by Minsky and Papert (1969). They discovered two key issues with the computational machines that processed neural networks. The first issue was that single-layer neural networks were incapable of processing the exclusive-or circuit. The second significant issue was that computers were not sophisticated enough to effectively handle the long run time required by large neural networks. Neural network research slowed until computers achieved greater processing power. Also key in later advances was the backpropagation algorithm which effectively solved the exclusive-or problem (Werbos 1975).\n\nThe parallel distributed processing of the mid-1980s became popular under the name connectionism. The text by Rumelhart and McClelland (1986) provided a full exposition on the use of connectionism in computers to simulate neural processes.\n\nNeural networks, as used in artificial intelligence, have traditionally been viewed as simplified models of neural processing in the brain, even though the relation between this model and brain biological architecture is debated, as it is not clear to what degree artificial neural networks mirror brain function.\n\nA \"neural network\" (NN), in the case of artificial neurons called \"artificial neural network\" (ANN) or \"simulated neural network\" (SNN), is an interconnected group of natural or artificial neurons that uses a mathematical or computational model for information processing based on a connectionistic approach to computation. In most cases an ANN is an adaptive system that changes its structure based on external or internal information that flows through the network.\n\nIn more practical terms neural networks are non-linear statistical data modeling or decision making tools. They can be used to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs or to find patterns in data.\n\nAn artificial neural network involves a network of simple processing elements (artificial neurons) which can exhibit complex global behavior, determined by the connections between the processing elements and element parameters. Artificial neurons were first proposed in 1943 by Warren McCulloch, a neurophysiologist, and Walter Pitts, a logician, who first collaborated at the University of Chicago.\n\nOne classical type of artificial neural network is the recurrent Hopfield network.\n\nThe concept of a neural network appears to have first been proposed by Alan Turing in his 1948 paper \"Intelligent Machinery\" in which called them \"B-type unorganised machines\".\n\nThe utility of artificial neural network models lies in the fact that they can be used to infer a function from observations and also to use it. Unsupervised neural networks can also be used to learn representations of the input that capture the salient characteristics of the input distribution, e.g., see the Boltzmann machine (1983), and more recently, deep learning algorithms, which can implicitly learn the distribution function of the observed data. Learning in neural networks is particularly useful in applications where the complexity of the data or task makes the design of such functions by hand impractical.\n\nThe tasks to which artificial neural networks are applied tend to fall within the following broad categories:\n\nApplication areas of ANNs include nonlinear system identification and control (vehicle control, process control), game-playing and decision making (backgammon, chess, racing), pattern recognition (radar systems, face identification, object recognition), sequence recognition (gesture, speech, handwritten text recognition), medical diagnosis, financial applications, data mining (or knowledge discovery in databases, \"KDD\"), visualization and e-mail spam filtering.\n\nTheoretical and computational neuroscience is the field concerned with the theoretical analysis and computational modeling of biological neural systems.\nSince neural systems are intimately related to cognitive processes and behaviour, the field is closely related to cognitive and behavioural modeling.\n\nThe aim of the field is to create models of biological neural systems in order to understand how biological systems work. To gain this understanding, neuroscientists strive to make a link between observed biological processes (data), biologically plausible mechanisms for neural processing and learning (biological neural network models) and theory (statistical learning theory and information theory).\n\nMany models are used; defined at different levels of abstraction, and modeling different aspects of neural systems. They range from models of the short-term behaviour of individual neurons, through models of the dynamics of neural circuitry arising from interactions between individual neurons, to models of behaviour arising from abstract neural modules that represent complete subsystems. These include models of the long-term and short-term plasticity of neural systems and its relation to learning and memory, from the individual neuron to the system level.\n\nA common criticism of neural networks, particularly in robotics, is that they require a large diversity of training for real-world operation. This is not surprising, since any learning machine needs sufficient representative examples in order to capture the underlying structure that allows it to generalize to new cases. Dean Pomerleau, in his research presented in the paper \"Knowledge-based Training of Artificial Neural Networks for Autonomous Robot Driving,\" uses a neural network to train a robotic vehicle to drive on multiple types of roads (single lane, multi-lane, dirt, etc.). A large amount of his research is devoted to (1) extrapolating multiple training scenarios from a single training experience, and (2) preserving past training diversity so that the system does not become overtrained (if, for example, it is presented with a series of right turns—it should not learn to always turn right). These issues are common in neural networks that must decide from amongst a wide variety of responses, but can be dealt with in several ways, for example by randomly shuffling the training examples, by using a numerical optimization algorithm that does not take too large steps when changing the network connections following an example, or by grouping examples in so-called mini-batches.\n\nA. K. Dewdney, a former \"Scientific American\" columnist, wrote in 1997, \"Although neural nets do solve a few toy problems, their powers of computation are so limited that I am surprised anyone takes them seriously as a general problem-solving tool.\" (Dewdney, p. 82)\n\nArguments for Dewdney's position are that to implement large and effective software neural networks, much processing and storage resources need to be committed. While the brain has hardware tailored to the task of processing signals through a graph of neurons, simulating even a most simplified form on Von Neumann technology may compel a neural network designer to fill many millions of database rows for its connections—which can consume vast amounts of computer memory and hard disk space. Furthermore, the designer of neural network systems will often need to simulate the transmission of signals through many of these connections and their associated neurons—which must often be matched with incredible amounts of CPU processing power and time. While neural networks often yield \"effective\" programs, they too often do so at the cost of \"efficiency\" (they tend to consume considerable amounts of time and money).\n\nArguments against Dewdney's position are that neural nets have been successfully used to solve many complex and diverse tasks, ranging from autonomously flying aircraft, to detecting credit card fraud .\n\nTechnology writer Roger Bridgman commented on Dewdney's statements about neural nets: \nNeural networks, for instance, are in the dock not only because they have been hyped to high heaven, (what hasn't?) but also because you could create a successful net without understanding how it worked: the bunch of numbers that captures its behaviour would in all probability be \"an opaque, unreadable table...valueless as a scientific resource\".\n\nIn spite of his emphatic declaration that science is not technology, Dewdney seems here to pillory neural nets as bad science when most of those devising them are just trying to be good engineers. An unreadable table that a useful machine could read would still be well worth having.\n\nAlthough it is true that analyzing what has been learned by an artificial neural network is difficult, it is much easier to do so than to analyze what has been learned by a biological neural network. Furthermore, researchers involved in exploring learning algorithms for neural networks are gradually uncovering generic principles which allow a learning machine to be successful. For example, Bengio and LeCun (2007) wrote an article regarding local vs non-local learning, as well as shallow vs deep architecture.\n\nSome other criticisms came from believers of hybrid models (combining neural networks and symbolic approaches). They advocate the intermix of these two approaches and believe that hybrid models can better capture the mechanisms of the human mind (Sun and Bookman, 1990).\n\nWhile initially research had been concerned mostly with the electrical characteristics of neurons, a particularly important part of the investigation in recent years has been the exploration of the role of neuromodulators such as dopamine, acetylcholine, and serotonin on behaviour and learning.\n\nBiophysical models, such as BCM theory, have been important in understanding mechanisms for synaptic plasticity, and have had applications in both computer science and neuroscience. Research is ongoing in understanding the computational algorithms used in the brain, with some recent biological evidence for radial basis networks and neural backpropagation as mechanisms for processing data.\n\nComputational devices have been created in CMOS for both biophysical simulation and neuromorphic computing. More recent efforts show promise for creating nanodevices for very large scale principal components analyses and convolution. If successful, these efforts could usher in a new era of neural computing that is a step beyond digital computing, because it depends on learning rather than programming and because it is fundamentally analog rather than digital even though the first instantiations may in fact be with CMOS digital devices.\n\nBetween 2009 and 2012, the recurrent neural networks and deep feedforward neural networks developed in the research group of Jürgen Schmidhuber at the Swiss AI Lab IDSIA have won eight international competitions in pattern recognition and machine learning. For example, multi-dimensional long short term memory (LSTM) won three competitions in connected handwriting recognition at the 2009 International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICDAR), without any prior knowledge about the three different languages to be learned. \n\nVariants of the back-propagation algorithm as well as unsupervised methods by Geoff Hinton and colleagues at the University of Toronto can be used to train deep, highly nonlinear neural architectures, similar to the 1980 Neocognitron by Kunihiko Fukushima, and the \"standard architecture of vision\", inspired by the simple and complex cells identified by David H. Hubel and Torsten Wiesel in the primary visual cortex. \n\nRadial basis function and wavelet networks have also been introduced. These can be shown to offer best approximation properties and have been applied in nonlinear system identification and classification applications. \n\nDeep learning feedforward networks alternate convolutional layers and max-pooling layers, topped by several pure classification layers. Fast GPU-based implementations of this approach have won several pattern recognition contests, including the IJCNN 2011 Traffic Sign Recognition Competition and the ISBI 2012 Segmentation of Neuronal Structures in Electron Microscopy Stacks challenge. Such neural networks also were the first artificial pattern recognizers to achieve human-competitive or even superhuman performance on benchmarks such as traffic sign recognition (IJCNN 2012), or the MNIST handwritten digits problem of Yann LeCun and colleagues at NYU.\n\n"}
{"id": "11962983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11962983", "title": "Old Sorrel", "text": "Old Sorrel\n\nOld Sorrel, sometimes known as The Old Sorrel, (1915–1945) was a Quarter Horse stallion who was the foundation of the King Ranch linebreeding program for Quarter Horses, and the cornerstone of the King Ranch horse breeding program.\n\nOld Sorrel was foaled in 1915 and was sold that same year to the King Ranch of Texas. He proved himself worth breeding through ranch work on the ranch, before being used as the foundation of the King Ranch Quarter Horse linebreeding program. He died in 1945, with his last foal crop being in 1943. He was a sorrel stallion bred by George Clegg of Alice, Texas and sold by Clegg as a foal along with his dam for $125 to the King Ranch. The King Ranch owned him until he died at the age of 31 in 1949.\n\nJ. K. Northway, the veterinarian on the King Ranch, described Old Sorrel as I saw Richard Kleberg and George Clegg rope off him and ride him all morning, and then race him in the afternoon. Although a stallion, and treated as such, his daily work consisted of regular ranch routine with the remuda. Bob had made him into a superior cow horse in every respect. You could rope, cut, or do any other ranch work on him, and he was not just adequate – he was superior in every respect. Bob Kleberg, the Bob in the quote from Northway, who was one of the owners of the King Ranch and who managed it from the 1920s through to the 1950s, said that the Old Sorrel was \"the best cow horse I ever rode, but he was also a good running horse. He had that well balanced look and the feel of a racehorse.\"\n\nWhen the American Quarter Horse Association (or AQHA) was founded in 1940, The Old Sorrel was already twenty-five years old, but the King Ranch registered him amongst the very first horses that the AQHA accepted for registration. He was given number 209 in the registry, and registered as bred by George Clegg of Alice, Texas. His sire was Hickory Bill by Peter McCue and out of a Dr. Rose mare. The dam was a mare of Thoroughbred breeding that Clegg had bought from a Dr. Rose who was a dentist in Mexico as well as running a few ranches. Rose had bought some Thoroughbred mares in Kentucky to improve his horses, and eventually sold some of the mares to Clegg, without any breeding being attributed to any of them.\n\nThe Old Sorrel sired 116 horses registered with the AQHA, but through the linebreeding program the King Ranch used, almost every horse the King Ranch registered from 1940 to the early 1960s was at least a descendant of Old Sorrel, and most were heavily inbred to him.\n\nAmong his famous offspring were Cardinal, Solis, Little Richard P-17, Tomate Laureles P-19, Silver King, Macanudo and Hired Hand. His grandsons included Wimpy P-1, Ranchero, Peppy, and Pep-Up. \n\nHe was inducted into the AQHA Hall of Fame in 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "24732429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24732429", "title": "Peshotanu (punishment)", "text": "Peshotanu (punishment)\n\nA Peshotanu, meaning \"one who pays with his body\", according to Avestan terminology, is a person who had either been condemned to or previously subjected to two hundred stripes with the \"Aspahe-astra\" and the \"Sraosho-karana\". Two hundred flogs with a whip was a capital punishment in Ancient Persia next only to death. A Peshotanu was also designated margarzan or \"worthy of death\".\n"}
{"id": "7739153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7739153", "title": "Peter, the Lord's cat", "text": "Peter, the Lord's cat\n\nPeter, the Lord's cat (1950 – 5 November 1964), also known as The Marylebone mog, was a cat who lived at Lord's Cricket Ground in London from 1952 to 1964. He is the only animal to be given an obituary in the standard cricket reference book, \"Wisden Cricketers' Almanack\".\n\nThe obituary appeared in the 1965 edition of Wisden, under the name \"CAT, PETER\". It described him as \"a well-known cricket-watcher\" who \"could often be seen prowling on the field of play\"; he \"loved publicity\" and \"frequently appeared on the television\". Despite this, it seems that no photographs of him are known, although his successor, Sinbad, was snapped during a Southern Schools v The Rest match in 1963.\n\nPeter is mentioned in the title of a 2006 anthology of Wisden obituaries, \"Peter, the Lord's Cat: And Other Unexpected Obituaries from Wisden\".\n"}
{"id": "20532521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20532521", "title": "Petz: Dogz 2 and Catz 2", "text": "Petz: Dogz 2 and Catz 2\n\nPetz: Catz 2 and Petz: Dogz 2 are video games for the PC, Nintendo DS, PlayStation 2 and Wii, the latter two are similar to \"The Dog Island\". Players can choose from 40 breeds of dogs or cats, in Dogz most breeds have a choice of two fur colours. In the UK these games are titled \"Dogz\" and \"Catz\".\n\nUnlike the PC and DS versions, the Wii and PlayStation 2 versions of the games are actually adventure games, so instead of taking care of a virtual pet, the player plays as a dog or cat who lives in a town on a large island, and who goes on an adventure to stop an evil wolf from destroying the universe.\nThe game is based on the role-playing \"The Dog Island\", in which the player controls a dog or cat through environments while completing tasks. Before the game starts, the player is asked to choose the animal's breed, sex, and finally, name, all of which have no bearing in the game itself. The player can walk, run, creep, and push rocks as locomotion. Throughout the game, the player faces a variety of hostile animals, such as snakes, gorillas, and bats, who will hurt the player if approached when they are in a hostile mood; their mood is indicated by a bubble above them. The player starts out at 3 HP, which is upgraded at certain points in the game up to 8; if all of them are depleted, the player has to start over from the last save point. The player can stun enemies by barking/meowing behind them, which can be held down for a longer effect (in the dog's case, it will turn their bark into a howl), or by throwing pebbles against them. Bubbles appear above friendly non-playable characters as well, mostly to indicate that they need the player's help for a task.\n\nThe player can explore 14 locales in the game, including the beach, lake, forest, and so on. Not all of them are open for the player at the start, requiring specific tasks to be completed first. While the player will visit every area at one point in the game, many parts are optional and can be opened by skills obtained later in the game. Once the player earns the Warp Ring from Arvin, they can warp between six locales for free through a magical stone normally used for saving. Each area has its own hazards independent from the hostile animals, such as a poisonous lake in Sky Heights, overheating in Inferno Cave, and tornadoes in Lonesome Park. Some areas host zoo animals that can be challenged for minigames, including soccer and sprint, to make them return to South Pawville's zoo, where the player can challenge them again. The game is tightly-knit as compared to \"The Dog Island\"; South Pawville acts as a central hub that connects all branches of the island. Due to this, there is no traveler's inn or shop; every purchase and full healing through sleeping are therefore only conductible in South Pawville.\n\nThe game has a variety of obtainable items. Fruits, vegetables, and plot-related items are collected by sniffing and digging them (availability and location of the items are indicated in two circles that appear when the player are sniffing). The player can catch butterflies, insects, and fishes, each of which can be sold at the pawn shop in South Pawville for gold, or, in the case of fishes, sent to the aquarium for later viewing. Gold, the game's currency, is also received as reward for completing tasks and can be spent to buy healing items, accessories, and clothing.\n\nThe dog and cat editions of the game have virtually identical content, aside from the different animals populating them and certain theme naming (e.g. healing items in the game are named after meat for dogs, but tunas for cats).\n\nThe player is a dog or cat living in South Pawville, a town located on a large island. The player's father, Arvin, owns the Magic Hat, a family inheritance that contains a powerful magic, which can be used for good or evil. When the player's best friend Victor talks about an evil wolf named Ivlet jailed at North Pawville's police station, he invites the player to investigate. Sheriff Ada warns them against nearing Ivlet, who usually sleeps during the day. This gives Victor idea of visiting him at night.\n\nWhen the two visit Ivlet that night, he tricks the player into giving him the Magic Hat. This empowers him with magic, which he uses to destroy both Pawvilles and make wild animals hostile. Ada jails the player, but is freed by Augusta, who says that the player should take responsibility by helping the townsfolk, while Victor decides to take the player's place as a compromise. Outside the police station, the player meets with Beat, the personification of the Magic Hat's good side, who asks for the player's help in retrieving back the hat.\n\nAfter the player helps out all of the Pawvilles' townsfolk, they are instructed by Arvin to meet with and assist Theophilus, a wizard living in Sky Heights, in combating Ivlet. Theophilus says that the Magic Hat, normally colored blue, grows darker if always used for evil, and if it turns black, it will corrupt its user into a monster. Suppressing the hat's power requires the Magic Shield, made from three crystals: the Water, Earth, and Ice Crystals. Once the player collects them, Theophilus sends the player to rendezvous with his brother, Bartholomew, who travelled to Gongoro Peak but didn't return. The two wizards proceed to Sky Heights and plan the attack on Ivlet, who lives in an astral dimension, and invite the player to assist them. The three manage to defeat Ivlet and the dragon he summons.\n\nRetrieving back the Magic Hat, Beat says that since his task is done, he will have to part ways with the player, before entering the Magic Hat and returning it back to its normal color. The player returns home and is welcomed by their parents, with Arvin deciding to pass the Magic Hat to the player.\n\nThe PC version of the game is not released in the UK. In this version, the player cares for a cat or dog, similar to the old Petz series.\n\n\"Petz: Dogz 2\" and \"Petz: Catz 2\" on DS is a virtual pet game in some ways. However unlike the other platform versions, these versions for are quite different they are released in the US under those titles and are called \"Dogz 2\" and \"Catz 2\" in the UK.\n\nIn the dog version, the player can choose one of 11 breeds per game, but cannot give the pet an actual name. They can also change their pet. The pets do not need feeding, grooming or resting (although these can be done, they are not compulsory) and the main goal of the game is to furnish the player's house. The house gets larger as the player gets more items, which are acquired by playing a variety of minigames.\n\nAlong with the minigames, there is also a painting game which appears on the Main Menu after obtaining enough items. In this game the player is able to colour portraits of the breeds of the pet.\n\nIn the cat version, the player is able to adopt and name their cat, and it is required to feed, groom, and love your pet. The player can also dress up their cat, and allow it to play in various themed rooms, such as the \"Safari Room\" and the \"Castle Room\". The player is also able to have three different loads, each with a different cat, and the main goal is to take care of the cat and gain its trust.\n\nYou take care of a dog or cat, whichever one you choose for version, will be kept with you.\n\n"}
{"id": "28466066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28466066", "title": "Princess Anne of Löwenstein-Wertheim-Freudenberg", "text": "Princess Anne of Löwenstein-Wertheim-Freudenberg\n\nPrincess Anne of Löwenstein-Wertheim-Freudenberg () (née Lady Anne Savile) (born 25 May 1864 in London, England, United Kingdom; died 31 August 1927 in the North Atlantic Ocean) was an English socialite and aviation patron and enthusiast. Anne was the second woman both to attempt and to perish in a transatlantic aircraft flight. Through her marriage to Prince Ludwig of Löwenstein-Wertheim-Freudenberg, Anne was a Princess of Löwenstein-Wertheim-Freudenberg and a member of the Princely House of Löwenstein-Wertheim-Freudenberg.\n\nAnne was born on 25 May 1864 in London, England, a daughter of John Savile, 4th Earl of Mexborough, and his second wife Agnes Louisa Elizabeth Raphael.\n\nAnne married Prince Ludwig of Löwenstein-Wertheim-Freudenberg, eighth child and sixth son of Wilhelm, Prince of Löwenstein-Wertheim-Freudenberg, and his first wife, Countess Olga Clara of Schönburg-Forderglauchau, on 15 May 1897 in London. Following their marriage, Anne became a citizen of the German Empire. In addition to her \"personal charms,\" Anne brought a great fortune to the marriage. Anne's husband Ludwig mysteriously disappeared within a year of their marriage in the Philippines during the Spanish–American War, where he was killed during fighting between Emilio Aguinaldo-led insurgents and the United States Army in the Battle of Caloocan of the Philippine–American War. She was notified of her husband Ludwig's death through the United States Embassy in London. Anne regained her British nationality in 1918 following World War I.\n\nBefore the outbreak of World War I, Anne continued to regularly visit the United States. On one such occasion in January 1913, she arrived on the White Star liner SS \"Majestic\" to New York City from Southampton. Accompanied by her secretary, Hughes Massie, Anne brought with her an \"automatic balancing bed\" of her own invention which she had declared prevented sea sickness.\n\nAnne began flying as a passenger aboard aircraft in 1914. She then befriended Captain Leslie Hamilton, a World War I flying ace nicknamed the \"Flying Gypsy.\" Anne was a passenger when Hamilton flew in the 1923 King's Cup Race. During her participation as a passenger in aviation events, she usually flew under her maiden name, \"Lady Anne Savile\".\n\nIn 1922, Anne rode as a passenger in her own aircraft in a cup race from Croydon to Edinburgh, Scotland. In 1925, she and Hamilton attempted a flight from London to Paris. Following their departure, their aircraft was not seen after it passed Folkestone and a search of the English Channel was begun. After an all-night search, the aircraft was found near Pontoise, a northwest suburb of Paris, where it had been forced down due to engine trouble. Throughout her 13 years of flight, Anne achieved several aviation records in her own right.\n\nIn 1927, Anne financed Captain Leslie Hamilton's attempt to set an aviation record by being the first aviator to fly over the Atlantic Ocean from east to west from England to Canada. Against her relatives' protests, including those of her brother John Horace Savile, 5th Earl of Mexborough, she decided to join Hamilton's expedition as a passenger because she had dreamed of becoming the first woman to \"fly the sea\". Anne, Captain Hamilton, and Colonel Frederick F. Minchin took off from the aerodrome at Upavon, Wiltshire at 7:32 a.m. on 31 August 1927 in a large Fokker F.VII monoplane powered by a 450 hp Bristol Jupiter engine known as the \"Saint Raphael\" bound for Ottawa. For the historic flight, Anne was dressed in royal purple to demonstrate what style of clothing she felt women should wear during a transatlantic flight. Her wardrobe consisted of purple leather knee-breeches, a matching jacket, a black crush hat, black silk stockings, and high-heeled fur-lined boots. Anne's flying suit was similar to those she had worn in previous cup races. The Archbishop of Cardiff blessed the aircraft and its occupants, and following the blessing, Anne discarded her coat and boarded the aircraft.The \"Saint Raphael\" headed west from the coast of Ireland and was last seen by the crew of the SS \"Josiah Macy\". Around 6 a.m the next morning the Dutch steamer SS \"Blijdendijik\" reported seeing a white light travelling eastward in the sky when about 420 miles east-south-east of New York, which, if it were \"St. Raphael\", was far to the south of its intended route, suggesting that they were lost. The aircraft was never seen again.Wireless communications with all points along the coast of Labrador failed to find any trace of the \"Saint Raphael\" following its disappearance in flight. Further searches failed to yield signs of the aircraft and its crew, and by 5 September, the remaining hope was that fish-carrying steamers or whalers had rescued Anne, Hamilton, and Minchin after the \"Saint Raphael\" plunged into the ocean, as it was supposed. On 5 September, Anne's brothers, Earl Mexborough and the Honorable George Savile, announced that they believed their sister had died at sea along with Captain Hamilton and Colonel Minchin. Despite no signs of the \"Saint Raphael\" or its crew, it is presumed that Anne, Hamilton, and Minchin perished on 31 August 1927 in the North Atlantic Ocean near Labrador and Newfoundland. Savile family friend Princess Blucher von Wahlstatt told the United Press that \"[Anne's] brothers did their best to dissuade her from the unnecessary adventure, but she was bent on going and refused to be dissuaded.\"\n\nAt the time of her death, Anne was the second woman to disappear in an attempted transoceanic flight in nearly two weeks; the first was Mildred Doran, who had been participating in the Dole Air Race from Oakland, California, to Hawaii.\n\nIn 1928, the Ontario Surveyor General named a number of lakes in the northwest of the province to honour aviators who had perished during 1927, mainly in attempting oceanic flights. The main lake so named is St Raphael Lake () named for the \"Saint Raphael\"; similarly-named lakes in the same general vicinity include Hamilton Lake (), Minchin Lake () and Wertheim Lake (), which commemorates Anne.\n\nAnne was presumed dead by a court order made in London on 6 February 1928; she died intestate and left an estate valued at £28,265 (gross) and net personal property of £20,371.\n\nA large memorial plaque commemorating the fateful flight and dedicated to Anne, Captain Hamilton and Colonel Minchin hangs in St Raphael's church, Kingston upon Thames.\n\n"}
{"id": "30967435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30967435", "title": "Robert Kingsley", "text": "Robert Kingsley\n\nRobert Kingsley (1903-1988) was an American legal scholar and California judge. He graduated from the University of Minnesota, the University of Minnesota Law School, and Harvard Law School. A strong opponent of the Death penalty, Kingsley served as Dean of Law at the University of Southern California from 1952 to 1963, when he was appointed to the California Court of Appeals by Governor Pat Brown. The Robert Kingsley Professorship in law at USC, currently held by Susan Estrich, is named in his honor. In 1979 he was named Roger J. Traynor Memorial Appellate Justice of the Year.\n\nKingsley resided in California and was married.\n"}
{"id": "186837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186837", "title": "Ron \"Pigpen\" McKernan", "text": "Ron \"Pigpen\" McKernan\n\nRonald Charles McKernan (September 8, 1945 – March 8, 1973), known as Pigpen, was an American singer and musician. He was a founding member of the San Francisco band the Grateful Dead and played in the group from 1965 to 1972.\n\nMcKernan grew up heavily influenced by African-American music, particularly the blues, and enjoyed listening to his father's collection of records and taught himself how to play harmonica and piano. He began socializing around the San Francisco Bay Area, becoming friends with Jerry Garcia. After the pair had played in various folk and jug bands, McKernan suggested they form an electric group, which became the Grateful Dead. He was the band's original frontman as well as playing harmonica and electric organ, but Garcia and bassist Phil Lesh's influences on the band became increasingly stronger as they embraced psychedelic rock. McKernan struggled to keep up with the changing music, causing the group to hire keyboardist Tom Constanten, with McKernan's contributions essentially limited to vocals, harmonica and percussion from November 1968 to January 1970. He continued to be a frontman in concert for some numbers, including covers of Bobby Bland's \"Turn On Your Love Light\" and the Rascals' \"Good Lovin'\".\n\nUnlike the other members of the Grateful Dead, McKernan avoided psychedelic drugs, preferring to drink alcohol (namely whiskey and flavored fortified wine). By 1971, his health had been affected by alcoholism and liver damage and doctors advised him to stop touring. Following a hiatus, he resumed touring with the group in December 1971 but was forced to retire from touring altogether in June 1972. McKernan was found dead of a gastrointestinal hemorrhage on March 8, 1973, aged 27, and is buried at Alta Mesa Memorial Park in Palo Alto.\n\nRonald Charles McKernan was born on September 8, 1945, in San Bruno, California. He came from Irish ancestry, and his father, Phil McKernan, was an R&B and blues disc jockey, who had been one of the first white DJs on KDIA, a black radio station. Ronald grew up with African American friends and enjoyed black music and culture. As a youth, he taught himself blues piano, guitar and harmonica and developed a biker culture image. McKernan moved to Palo Alto, California, with his family, where he became friends with musician Jerry Garcia at the age of 14. He built up a substantial collection of old blues 78s from labels such as Kent and Chess.\n\nMcKernan began spending time around coffeehouses and music stores, and worked at Dana Morgan's Music Store in Palo Alto with Garcia. One night Garcia invited McKernan on stage to play harmonica and sing the blues. Garcia was impressed and McKernan became the blues singer in local jam sessions. He was initially nicknamed \"Blue Ron\" before settling on \"Pigpen\". Onomastician Adrian Room has suggested McKernan was given the name due to his untidy and unclean habits and band biographies say he got the nickname owing to his similarity to Pig-Pen, the permanently-dirty character in the comic-strip \"Peanuts\".\n\nAlong with Garcia and second guitarist Bob Weir, McKernan was a participant in the predecessor groups leading to the formation of the Grateful Dead, beginning with the Zodiacs and Mother McCree's Uptown Jug Champions. Drummer Bill Kreutzmann was added and the band evolved into the Warlocks. Around 1965, McKernan urged the rest of the Warlocks to switch to electric instruments. Bassist Phil Lesh joined soon after, and they became the Grateful Dead. The group were keen to involve McKernan in the band, as he was the group's original leader and was considered the best singer and frontman.\n\nThe Dead's early sets centered around blues and R&B covers chosen by McKernan. By the end of 1966, Garcia had improved his musical skills and wanted to assert himself more as a leader and musical director, changing the band's direction and reducing McKernan's contributions. In 1967, drummer Mickey Hart joined the Grateful Dead, followed by classically trained keyboardist Tom Constanten in 1968, further changing the group's style. Constanten often replaced McKernan on keyboards in the studio, as McKernan found it difficult to adapt to the new material that Garcia and Lesh composed for the band.\n\nIn October 1968, McKernan and Weir were nearly fired from the band after Garcia and Lesh believed their playing was holding the band back from lengthy and experimental jamming. Garcia delegated the task of firing them to Rock Scully, who said that McKernan \"took it hard.\" Weir promised to improve, but McKernan was more stubborn. According to Garcia biographer Blair Jackson, McKernan missed three Dead shows before vowing not to \"be lazy\" any more and rejoining, while Kreutzmann objected to replacing McKernan and said the event never happened. Following his discharge from the United States Air Force in November 1968, Constanten officially joined the band, having only worked in the studio while on leave up to that point. Road manager Jon McIntire commented that \"Pigpen was relegated to the congas at that point and it was really humiliating and he was really hurt, but he couldn't show it, couldn't talk about it.\" He began to take Hammond organ lessons and learned how to use the various drawbars and controls.\n\nAfter Constanten's departure in January 1970 over musical and lifestyle differences, McKernan nominally resumed keyboard duties. He contributed instrumentation to only two tracks (Hammond organ on \"Black Peter\" and harmonica on \"Easy Wind\", the latter as lead vocalist) on \"Workingman's Dead\" (1970), the band's breakthrough studio release. On the follow-up album \"American Beauty\", keyboard parts were handled by Garcia and Lesh, along with session musicians Howard Wales and Ned Lagin. The 1971 live album \"Grateful Dead\" featured three overdubbed organ parts from Merl Saunders in addition to McKernan's contributions on \"Big Railroad Blues\", \"The Other One\", and \"Me & Bobby McGee\". While Garcia expressed frustration at McKernan's missed rehearsals and his inability to keep up with new material, Lesh was more forgiving, opining that \"it was okay for Pigpen to lay out... we kept wanting Pigpen to be there because he was 'one of us.'\"\n\nWhile in the Grateful Dead, McKernan sang and played blues-influenced organ and harmonica. He initially played an indeterminate Farfisa combo organ before switching to the more elaborate Vox Continental in 1966. He began to alternate between the Vox Continental and the Hammond B-3 in June 1967, usually reserving the former instrument for outdoor and impromptu concerts, including the band's performance at the Columbia University protests of 1968. During Tom Constanten's tenure with the group, McKernan occasionally played his bandmate's double-manual Vox Super Continental on select songs (most notably \"Death Don't Have No Mercy\") through May 1969. With the exception of select acoustic sets in 1970 in which he played acoustic piano, he used the Hammond exclusively thereafter.\n\nMcKernan sang lead on several standards he wanted the Dead to cover, such as Otis Redding's \"Pain in My Heart\" and Wilson Pickett's \"In the Midnight Hour\", with the latter serving as one of the band's main improvisatory vehicles from 1966 to 1968. Unlike fellow vocalists Garcia and Weir, he sang lead without playing any instrument except harmonica and actively interacted with the audience, occasionally walking out into the crowd. During the band's first year when they played straightforward blues, McKernan performed the majority of lead vocals, attracting an early audience that came specifically to see him sing and play harmonica. He took on early management duties in the band, ensuring they would be paid and promoted properly for gigs.\n\nThough McKernan's garage rock style was appropriate for their early recordings, it was less suited to the group's later psychedelic and jamming styles. He went from contributing to every song and singing lead on all of side two of 1968's \"Anthem of the Sun\" to little more than sporadic appearances on the following year's \"Aoxomoxoa\". He continued to front the band for long stretches during their live performances and suggested new material for the Dead's concert repertoire, including Redding's \"Hard to Handle\" and James Brown's \"It's a Man's Man's Man's World.\"\n\nMcKernan achieved a new prominence in 1969 covering \"Turn On Your Love Light\"; initially introduced in 1967, the song gradually evolved into the band's show-stopping finale, often taking fifteen to thirty minutes to complete. He improvised lyrics over the band's accompaniment, using phrases he had heard from African American friends, such as \"rider\" (slang for \"lover\"), \"she's got box-black nitties\" (referring to female underwear) and \"boar hog's eye\". When the Grateful Dead appeared at Woodstock, the band's set (which was marred by technical problems and general chaos and described as one of their worst shows) ended with \"Turn On Your Love Light\". Even as his instrumental contributions waned, McKernan's vocal performances remained an integral part of the band's live set; by early 1971, their cover of the Rascals' \"Good Lovin'\" (initially performed by the group as early as 1966 and featured at shows at the Fillmore East later released as \"Ladies and Gentlemen... the Grateful Dead\") began to emerge as a secondary showcase of his improvisatory talents alongside \"Love Light.\"\n\nMcKernan was not a prolific songwriter, preferring to concentrate on blues covers and improvised lyrics. He composed the infrequently performed \"Operator\" for 1970's \"American Beauty\". Several new songs emerged from a creatively fecund period coinciding with his health problems in 1971, most notably \"Mr. Charlie\", a collaboration with Dead lyricist Robert Hunter. The song appeared on the live album \"Europe '72\", his last with the group.\n\nTony Sclafani has compared McKernan's role in the band, initially strong and pivotal but gradually declining, to that of Brian Jones in the Rolling Stones, particularly since both men were primarily influenced by the blues over rock 'n' roll and died aged 27. In contrast, though, McKernan was always encouraged to sing material live and left the group due to ill health, while Jones was fired.\n\nAfter McKernan's death, a number of recordings were found in his apartment, which have appeared as the bootleg recording \"The Apartment Tapes\". This included two songs recorded in 1964 with future Jefferson Airplane guitarist Jorma Kaukonen. On the bootleg, McKernan played acoustic guitar and piano, instruments he seldom used with the Dead.\n\nMcKernan was close friends with American singer-songwriter Janis Joplin due to common musical influences and lifestyles, particularly a shared love of alcohol over other drugs; a poster from the early 1970s showed them together at 710 Ashbury. Joplin joined McKernan on stage at the Fillmore West on June 7, 1969, with the Grateful Dead to sing his signature \"Turn On Your Love Light\", reprising this duet on July 16, 1970, at the Euphoria Ballroom in San Rafael, California.\n\nHe developed a close friendship with fellow keyboardist Tom Constanten based on their mutual aversion to psychedelics and eventually served as best man at Constanten's first wedding. While his bandmates and friends were using cannabis, LSD, and other hallucinogenic drugs, McKernan preferred alcoholic beverages such as Thunderbird and Southern Comfort. Ironically, McKernan was arrested and fined after the cannabis bust on November 9, 1967, at 710 Ashbury Street, the Dead's communal home, even though he did not use the drug. The event was covered in the first issue of \"Rolling Stone\", where the reporter noted McKernan had a substantial rifle collection and McKernan's picture appeared on a contemporary report in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\". Because neither took illegal drugs, McKernan and Constanten were the only members of the band not arrested in the January 31, 1970 police raid that inspired the lyrics of the band's song \"Truckin'\".\n\nIn the early years of the Grateful Dead, McKernan was easily recognisable by his biker image, making him a minor celebrity. In 1969, the band's record company, Warner Bros., ran a \"Pigpen Look-Alike Contest\".\n\nMcKernan's alcohol abuse had begun to affect his health by his mid twenties. By the early 1970s, he also began to experience symptoms of congenital primary biliary cholangitis, a rare autoimmune disease which was unrelated to his use of alcohol. After being hospitalized in August 1971, doctors requested that he stop touring indefinitely. Pianist Keith Godchaux was subsequently hired and remained a regular member of the Grateful Dead until 1979. McKernan rejoined the band in December 1971 to supplement Godchaux on harmonica, percussion, and organ. Although manager Rock Scully alleged that McKernan passed out in front of his Hammond organ at one show during this period, Garcia biographer Blair Jackson has lauded the quality and frequency of his instrumental contributions on the \"Europe '72\" tour. However, his health soon deteriorated again to the point where he could no longer continue to perform. He made his final concert appearance on June 17, 1972 at the Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles. He subsequently broke off all personal relationships with the band, explaining \"I don't want you around when I die.\"\n\nOn March 8, 1973, aged 27, he was found dead of a gastrointestinal hemorrhage at his home in Corte Madera, California, by his landlady. Though his contributions to the band had slowly diminished over the years, the other members were devastated at his death. McKernan was buried at the Alta Mesa Memorial Park in Palo Alto, California. Garcia spoke at his funeral, saying \"After Pigpen's death we all knew this was the end of the original Grateful Dead\".\n\nDespite his outward image, friends and band biographers have described McKernan as a quiet, kind and introspective person. Hart later said \"Pigpen was the \"musician\" in the Grateful Dead.\" Kreutzmann said McKernan was \"the sweetest guy anybody had ever met.\"\n\nWeir later became influenced by McKernan's ability to work a crowd and improvise lyrics. He took over \"de facto\" frontman duties in concert and began to reintroduce material originally chosen by McKernan into the Dead's live set after his death. Weir began singing \"Good Lovin'\" with the Dead in 1973, and the group recorded the song on 1978's \"Shakedown Street\". \"Turn On Your Love Light\" was revived in 1981, with Weir singing lead. He also revived the 1960s standard \"Big Boy Pete\", originally sung by McKernan, as a one-off in 1985. Jimmy Reed's \"Big Boss Man\", covered by the group on \"Grateful Dead (Skull and Roses)\" with McKernan singing lead, was revived by Garcia and performed occasionally through the 1980s and 90s.\n\n\"He's Gone\", originally appearing on the live album \"Europe '72\", subsequently became a eulogy to McKernan by his former bandmates. Hunter said \"it became an anthem for Pigpen\".\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "27205785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27205785", "title": "School attacks in China (2010–12)", "text": "School attacks in China (2010–12)\n\nA series of uncoordinated mass stabbings, hammer attacks, and cleaver attacks in the People's Republic of China began in March 2010. The spate of attacks left at least 25 dead and some 115 injured. As most cases had no known motive, analysts have blamed mental health problems caused by rapid social change for the rise in these kinds of mass murder and murder-suicide incidents.\n\nAs the Chenpeng school attack was followed by the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in the United States hours later comparisons were drawn between the two. The difference in gun control laws between the two countries was used to explain the disparity in casualties of the school attacks by journalists and politicians, including U.S. Representative Jerry Nadler, and an article in the Associated Press noted that despite the different outcomes, an underlying commonality between the attacks was the increased frequency of school attacks because, \"attackers often seek out the vulnerable, hoping to amplify their outrage before they themselves often commit suicide.\"\n\nOn March 23, 2010, Zheng Minsheng (郑民生) 41, murdered eight children with a knife in an elementary school in Nanping, Fujian province; The attack was widely reported in Chinese media (called 南平实验小学重大凶杀案), sparking fears of copycat crimes. Following a quick trial, Zheng Minsheng was executed about one month later on April 28. Media reported a history of mental health issues, but police stated that Zheng had no history of mental illness, contradicting earlier reports. Zheng said that he performed the attack after being turned down by a girl and suffering \"unfair treatment\" from the girl's wealthy family.\n\nJust a few hours after the execution of Zheng Minsheng in neighboring Fujian Province, in Leizhou, Guangdong another knife-wielding man named Chen Kangbing, 33 (陈康炳) at Hongfu Primary School wounded 16 students and a teacher. Chen Kangbing had been a teacher at a different primary school in Leizhou, but was on sick leave due to mental illness He was sentenced to death by a court in Zhanjiang in June.\n\nOn April 29 in Taixing, Jiangsu, unemployed 47-year-old Xu Yuyuan went to Zhongxin Kindergarten and stabbed 28 students and two teachers after stabbing the security guard; most of the Taixing students were 4 years old. The attack was the second in China in just two days.\n\nOn April 30, Wang Yonglai used a hammer to cause head injury to preschool children in Weifang, Shandong, then used gasoline to commit suicide by self-immolation.\n\nAn attacker named Wu Huanming (吴环明), 48, killed seven children and two adults and injured 11 other persons with a cleaver at a kindergarten in Hanzhong, Shaanxi on May 12, 2010; early reports were removed from the internet in China, for fear that mass coverage of such violence could provoke copycat attacks. The attacker later committed suicide at his house; he was the landlord of the school, Shengshui Temple private kindergarten, and had been involved in an ongoing dispute with the school administrator about when the school would move out of the building.\n\nOn May 18, 2010 at Hainan Institute of Science and Technology (海南科技职业学院), a vocational college in Haikou, Hainan, more than 10 men charged into a dormitory wielding knives around 2:30 am; after attacking the security guard and disabling security cameras, 9 students were injured, 1 seriously. The local men attacked the dorm in an act of revenge and retaliation against college students following conflict the previous day at an off-campus food stall in which 4 students were injured, for a total of 13.\n\nOn 4 August 2010, 26-year-old Fang Jiantang (方建堂) slashed more than 20 children and staff with a 60 cm knife, killing 3 children and 1 teacher at a kindergarten in Zibo, Shandong province. Of the injured, 3 other children and 4 teachers were taken to the hospital. After being caught Fang confessed to the crime. There was no known motive. Since the start of the year, a total of 27 people had died and at least 80 were injured in various knife attacks.\n\nEight children, all aged four or five, were hurt in Minhang District, Shanghai when an employee at a child-care centre for migrant workers slashed the children who were 3 to 4 years old with a box-cutter. The woman had worked there for years, but was thought to have psychiatric problems.\n\nIn September 2011, a young girl and three adults taking their children to nursery school were killed in Gongyi, Henan by 30-year-old Wang Hongbin with an axe. Another child and an adult were seriously wounded but survived. The suspect is a local farmer who is suspected of being mentally ill.\n\nOn 14 December 2012, a 36-year-old villager in the village of Chenpeng, Henan Province, stabbed 23 children and an elderly woman at the village's primary school as children were arriving for classes. The attacker was restrained at the school, and later arrested. All of the victims survived and were treated at three hospitals, though some were reportedly seriously injured, with fingers or ears cut off, and had to be transferred to larger hospitals for specialized care.\n\nProf. Joshua Miller, chair of Social Welfare Policy at Smith College, attributed the attacks to stress caused by \"rapid social change, mass migrations, increasing disparities in wealth and weakening of traditions.\" Some sociologists believe some of these attacks may be due to the PRC government's failure to diagnose and treat mental illness. The perpetrators may feel victimized by stress due to the rapid social changes in China during the last 10 years caused by the privatization and decreased social security of China's reform and opening period. During this time, more and more migrant workers from rural areas have moved to cities such as Shanghai to find jobs. However, because they do not have social security (because of the hukou system), many of them do not have health insurance. Because of the financial crisis of 2007–2010, some have lost their jobs, which is stigmatized in China, and have had to return to their native villages jobless and unemployed. The choice of schools for most of the attacks means they could be copycat crimes.\n\nAnother factor is China's male-based gender imbalance cause by the one child policy, in which there are a lot of single men frustrated at the dating market in China and their low prospects. They are then more likely to resort to violence.\n\nSince the recent spate of attacks, many parents are now worried about their children's safety in schools and have since asked local officials and school governors to step up security at the schools. The education ministry has formed an emergency panel to tackle the violence and some local police authorities have distributed such instruments as steel pitchforks and pepper spray to security guards in schools. However, not all schools increased their security because of lack of funds to hire extra security. The state media has also been keeping news of these attacks quiet by deleting forum entries on the internet and releasing few facts on the incident for fear of copycat crimes and mass panic. In May 2010 Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao commented on the school attacks and said that the 'social tensions' in China must be addressed. He also said society was changing rapidly and that subsequent changes in policy were needed. Why these attacks have been specifically targeted at young school children is not entirely explicable, however.\n\nFollowing the Chenpeng school attack, the Chinese government began posting security guards in schools throughout the country. It was planned that all schools have a security guard by 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42660001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42660001", "title": "Stella Hume", "text": "Stella Hume\n\nStella Hume (4 October 1882 – 3 January 1954) was an early figure in radio in South Australia.\n\nStella Hume was born in Victoria. Not much is known of her life until she married Ernest James Hume (1869-1929), in Mosman, a suburb of Sydney in 1905 and moved with him to Adelaide, South Australia where Ernest Hume was developing a business with his brother Walter Reginald Hume, manufacturing steel and pipes, and eventually inventing patented products.\n\nHume worked in several cultural industries in Adelaide while raising her four children, including teaching elocution lessons. She was art director of the Adelaide Repertory Theatre, and accomplished music, singing, dancing, sculpture and flower arranging. She was an actress in silent films under the name Leonora Starr.\n\nIn 1923, the Hume family, led by Stella's sons Jack Hume and Ernest Hume, Jr., became interested in the new technology of radio transmission and saw in the potential for cultural, social and education opportunities afforded by the technology. As a result, they acquired equipment and established a radio studio in their home on Park Terrace (later Greenhill Road) at Parkside, receiving a permit to broadcast from their home studio. The station became 5 Don N and later 5DN. The station became increasingly popular and went from broadcasting for a few hours per day to continuous broadcasting. Including broadcasting from their home, the family broadcast from the Elder Conservatorium of Music and the University of Adelaide.\n\nHume was one of the world's first female announcers and programme directors; she used the name Miss Leonora Starr as announcer of an elocutionist programme and the name Auntie Stella, for children's programming. Broadcasts from 5DN were broadcast in almost every country in the world.\n\nStella Hume was active in volunteer work in Adelaide, including driving disabled children to and from the hospital, and with the Liberal Union.\n\nHume's husband, Ernest James Hume, died in 1929 and Stella Hume moved to Neutral Bay, Sydney. She continued to give occasional radio talks there and patented a four-valve wireless receiver. She became involved in Spiritualism. She moved back to Adelaide in 1939 and then to Goulburn, New South Wales in the early 1950s and died at Kenmore Mental Hospital in 1954.\n"}
{"id": "1430910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1430910", "title": "Stolon", "text": "Stolon\n\nIn biology, stolons (from Latin stolō \"branch\"), also known as runners, are horizontal connections between organisms. They may be part of the organism, or of its skeleton; typically, animal stolons are external skeletons.\n\nIn botany, stolons are stems which grow at the soil surface or just below ground that form adventitious roots at the nodes, and new plants from the buds. Stolons are often called runners. Rhizomes, in contrast, are root-like stems that may either grow horizontally at the soil surface or in other orientations underground. Thus, not all horizontal stems are called stolons. Plants with stolons are called stoloniferous.\n\nA stolon is a plant propagation strategy and the complex of individuals formed by a mother plant and all its clones produced from stolons form a single genetic individual, a genet.\n\nStolons may or may not have long internodes. The leaves along the stolon are usually very small, but in a few cases such as \"Stachys sylvatica\" are normal in size.\n\nStolons arise from the base of the plant. In strawberries the base is above the soil surface; in many bulb-forming species and plants with rhizomes, the stolons remain underground and form shoots that rise to the surface at the ends or from the nodes. The nodes of the stolons produce roots, often all around the node and hormones produced by the roots cause the stolon to initiate shoots with normal leaves. Typically after the formation of the new plant the stolon dies away in a year or two, while rhizomes persist normally for many years or for the life of the plant, adding more length each year to the ends with active growth. The horizontal growth of stolons results from the interplay of different hormones produced at the growing point and hormones from the main plant, with some studies showing that stolon and rhizome growth are affected by the amount of shady light the plant receives with increased production and branching from plants exposed to mixed shade and sun, while plants in all day sun or all shade produce fewer stolons.\n\nA number of plants have soil-level or above-ground rhizomes, including \"Iris\" species and many orchid species.\nT. Holm (1929) restricted the term rhizome to a horizontal, usually subterranean, stem that produces roots from its lower surface and green leaves from its apex, developed directly from the plumule of the embryo. He recognized stolons as axillary, subterranean branches that do not bear green leaves but only membranaceous, scale-like ones.\n\nIn some \"Cyperus\" species the stolons end with the growth of tubers; the tubers are swollen stolons that form new plants.\n\nSome species of crawling plants can also sprout adventitious roots, but are not considered stoloniferous: a stolon is sprouted from an existing stem and can produce a full individual. Examples of plants that extend through stolons include some species from the genera \"Argentina\" (silverweed), \"Cynodon\", \"Fragaria\", and \"Pilosella\" (Hawkweeds), \"Zoysia japonica\", \"Ranunculus repens\".\n\nOther plants with stolons below the soil surface include many grasses, \"Ajuga\", \"Mentha\", and \"Stachys\".\n\nLily-of-the-valley (\"Convallaria majalis\") has rhizomes that grow stolon-like stems called stoloniferous rhizomes or leptomorph rhizomes. A number of plants have stoloniferous rhizomes including Asters. These stolon-like rhizomes are long and thin, with long internodes and indeterminate growth with lateral buds at the node, which mostly remain dormant.\n\nIn potatoes, the stolons start to grow within 10 days of plants emerging above ground, with tubers usually beginning to form on the end of the stolons. The tubers are modified stolons that hold food reserves, with a few buds that grow into stems. Since it is \"not\" a rhizome it does not generate roots, but the new stem growth that grows to the surface produces roots. See also BBCH-scale (potato)\n\n\"Hydrilla\" use stolons that produce tubers to spread themselves and to survive dry periods in aquatic habitats.\n\n\"Erythronium\", commonly called Trout Lily, have white stolons growing from the bulb. Most run horizontally, either underground or along the surface of the ground under leaf litter. A number of bulbous species produce stolons, such as \"Erythronium propullans\". Flowering plants often produce no stolons.\n\n\"Convolvulus arvensis\" is a weed species in agriculture that spreads by under ground stolons that produce rhizomes.\n\nIn studies on grass species, with plants that produce stolons or rhizomes and plants that produce both stolons and rhizomes, morphological and physiological differences were noticed. Stolons have longer internodes and function as means of seeking out light and are used for propagation of the plant, while rhizomes are used as storage organs for carbohydrates and the maintenance of meristem tissue to keep the parent plant alive from one year to the next.\n\nIn mycology, a stolon is defined as an occasionally septate hypha, which connects sporangiophores together. Root-like structures called rhizoids may appear on the stolon as well, anchoring the hyphae to the substrate. The stolon is commonly found in bread molds, and are seen as horizontally expanding across the mold.\n\nSome bryozoans form colonies through connection of individual units by stolons. Other colonies include sheets and erect colonies.\n\nSome colonial Cnidaria develop as stolons with interconnected medusoid structures that later separate.\n\nSome worm-like animals such as certain Polychaeta in the genus \"Myrianida\", form stolons containing eggs or sperm that they trail behind the main body.\n\nStolon based reproduction is thought to have been used by Rangeomorphs in the Ediacaran age.\n\n"}
{"id": "19566434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19566434", "title": "Stroke Belt", "text": "Stroke Belt\n\nStroke Belt or Stroke Alley is a name given to a region in the southeastern United States that has been recognized by public health authorities for having an unusually high incidence of stroke and other forms of cardiovascular disease. It is usually defined as a 9-state region consisting of Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee.\n\nAlthough many possible causes for the high stroke incidence have been investigated, the reasons for the phenomenon have not been determined.\n\nThe stroke belt is typically defined to include the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee. In 1980 these nine states had age-adjusted stroke mortality rates more than 10% above the national average.\n\nSome investigators also consider North Florida to be a part of the stroke belt, based on a stroke mortality rate higher than several states included in the region. East Texas also is characterized as a stroke belt.\n\nThe stroke belt was first identified in 1962 by Centers for Disease Control (CDC) researchers who noted a concentration of high stroke death rates in the Atlantic coastal plain counties of North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia. Similar high stroke rates were later observed in the Mississippi Delta region as well.\n\nAnalysis by the CDC of U.S. mortality statistics from the period 1991 to 1998 found that for both blacks and whites the counties with the highest stroke death rates were in the southeastern states and the Mississippi Delta region. Stroke death rates for states ranged from a high of 169 per 100,000 in South Carolina to a low of 89 per 100,000 in New York. While most observational studies have focused primarily on stroke incidence in adults, in 2004 researchers reported that children in the eleven stroke belt states also have an increased risk of death from ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke compared with children in other states.\n\nGlymour et al. (2007) reported that adults who had resided in the stroke belt during childhood and had moved outside the region had higher stroke risk at ages 50 and older than adults who grew up in areas with lower stroke incidence. A study reported in 2011 found that people over age 45 living in the eight \"stroke belt\" states of Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee had an 18 percent higher incidence of cognitive decline than people in other U.S. regions. Another researcher noted that, \"Stroke by itself is a major contributor to cognitive impairment and dementia.\" Other researchers have made similar observations.\n\nIn 2011, CDC researchers mapped the occurrence of diabetes in the U.S. by county, finding that highest prevalence of diabetes is in a \"diabetes belt\" that has extensive overlap with the stroke belt.\n\nThe causes of the elevated incidence of stroke in the stroke belt region have not been determined. Numerous possible contributing factors have been identified, including hypertension, low socioeconomic status, diet, cultural lifestyle, quality of healthcare facilities, smoking, and infections. Among the specific factors that have been proposed or studied are the following:\n\n\nThe U.S. federal government has conducted public health programs specifically aimed at reducing stroke incidence and mortality in the stroke belt. In the 1990s the Stroke Belt Initiative operated in eleven stroke belt states, providing nutrition education, blood pressure screening, smoking cessation programs, weight loss programs, and other health promotion and public education initiatives targeted at stroke risk factors.\n\nIn 2004, the Stroke Belt Elimination Initiative of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded grants aimed at reducing the high incidence of stroke and high rates of stroke death and disability in the seven states with the highest rates of stroke (Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee).\n\nThe term \"stroke belt\" is modeled after similar terms used for U.S. regions such as \"snowbelt\" and \"Sun Belt\", which extend the analogy to the belt as an article of clothing. The coastal plain counties of the Carolinas and Georgia — where the stroke belt phenomenon was first described, and where stroke incidence is highest — are sometimes called the \"buckle of the stroke belt\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26809587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26809587", "title": "Suicide attempt", "text": "Suicide attempt\n\nA suicide attempt is an attempt where a person tries to commit suicide but survives. It may be referred to as a failed suicide attempt or nonfatal suicide attempt, but the latter terms are subject to debate among researchers. Suicide attempts include parasuicide such as self-harm where there is no actual intention of killing oneself.\n\nIn the U.S., the NIMH reports there are 11 nonfatal suicide attempts for every suicide death. The American Association of Suicidology reports higher numbers, stating that there are 25 suicide attempts for every suicide completion. By these numbers, approximately 92–95% of suicide attempts end in survival.\n\nIn the United States, ratio of suicide attempts to suicide death is about 25:1 in youths, compared to about 4:1 in elderly.\n\nIn contrast to suicide mortality, rates of nonfatal self harm are consistently higher among females.\n\nWithout commonly agreed-upon operational definitions, some suicidology researchers regard many suicide attempts as parasuicide or self-injurious behavior, rather than \"true\" suicide attempts, as in lacking suicide intent.\n\nSome suicide methods have higher rates of lethality than others. The use of firearms results in death 90% of the time. Wrist-slashing has a much lower lethality rate, comparatively. 75% of all suicide attempts are by self-poisoning, a method that is often thwarted because the drug is nonlethal, or is used at a nonlethal dosage. These people survive 97% of the time.\n\nA nonfatal suicide attempt is the strongest known clinical predictor of eventual suicide. Suicide risk among self-harm patients is hundreds of times higher than in the general population. It is often estimated that about 10–15% of attempters eventually die by suicide. The mortality risk is highest during the first months and years after the attempt: almost 1% of individuals who attempt suicide die within one year.\n\nNonfatal suicide attempts can result in serious injury. 700,000 (or more) Americans survive a suicide attempt each year. People who attempt hanging and survive or charcoal grill carbon monoxide poisoning can face permanent brain damage due to cerebral anoxia. People who take an overdose and survive can face severe organ damage (e.g., liver failure). Individuals who jump from a bridge and survive may face the rupture of multiple organs and severe damage to the spine.\n\nWhile a majority sustain injuries that allow them to be released following emergency department treatment, a significant minority—about 116,000—are hospitalized, of whom 110,000 are eventually discharged alive. Their average hospital stay is 79 days. Some 89,000, (17%) of these people are permanently disabled, restricted in their ability to work.\n\nHistorically in the Christian church, people who attempted suicide were excommunicated because of the religiously polarizing nature of the topic. While previously criminally punishable, attempted suicide is no longer in most Western countries. It remains a criminal offense in most Islamic countries. In the late 19th century in Great Britain, attempted suicide was deemed to be equivalent to attempted murder and could be punished by hanging. In the United States, suicide is not illegal and almost no country in Europe currently considers attempted suicide to be a crime. In some cases of completed suicide, the person’s property can be seized by the government and bills for treatment of the corpse can be sent to the person’s survivors or living family members.\n\nIn Singapore, a person who attempts to commit suicide can be imprisoned for up to one year.\n\nIn India, attempted suicide was an offense punishable under the following Section 309 of the Indian Penal Code until December 2014, when it was repealed:\n\nIn Japan it is illegal to attempt suicide but not punishable. In Cyprus, the only European country where it is illegal, attempted suicide constitutes a misdemeanour.\n\nAs of 2012, attempted suicide is a criminal offense in Uganda.\n\nAs of 2013, attempted suicide is criminalized in Ghana.\n\nMany other countries still prosecute suicide (whether completed or not).\n\nIn Maryland, it is an open question as to whether suicide is illegal. In 2018, a Maryland man was convicted of attempted suicide.\n\n"}
{"id": "246184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246184", "title": "Superhuman", "text": "Superhuman\n\nSuperhuman qualities are qualities that exceed those found in humans. \n\nThe \"Übermensch\" or \"Superman\" was postulated by Friedrich Nietzsche as a type of supreme, ultra-aristocratic achievement which becomes possible in the transcendence of modernity, morals or nihilism.\n\nIn transhumanism and futurology, superhuman abilities are the technological aim either of human enhancement by genetic modification or cybernetic implants or of future superhuman artificial intelligence.\n\nSpeculation about human nature and the possibilities of both human enhancement and future human evolution have made superhumans a popular subject of science fiction.\n\nSuperhuman abilities are also associated with the genre of superheroes. \n\nHuman enhancement is an attempt to temporarily or permanently overcome the current limitations of the human body through natural or artificial means. Human enhancement may be through the use of technological means to select or alter human characteristics and capacities, whether or not the alteration results in characteristics and capacities that lie beyond the existing human range.\n\nSome bioethicists restrict the term to the non-therapeutic application of specific technologies — neuro-, cyber-, gene- and nano-technologies — to human biology.\n\nAccording to transhumanist thinkers, a posthuman is a hypothetical future being \"whose basic capacities so radically exceed those of present humans as to be no longer unambiguously human by our current standards.\"\n\n\"Superhuman\" is one of the stages in classification of progress in artificial intelligence where an entity of artificial intelligence performs better than most humans do in a specific task. Examples of where computers have achieved superhuman performance include Backgammon, Bridge, Chess, Reversi, Scrabble, Go and Jeopardy!.\n"}
{"id": "31869754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31869754", "title": "Tetraspore", "text": "Tetraspore\n\nTetraspores are red algae spores produced by the tetrasporophytic (diploid) phase in the life history of algae in the Rhodophyta as a result of meiosis. The name is derived from the 4 spores that form after this meiosis, the division is of three kinds: cruciate, zonate and tetrahedral. \n"}
{"id": "435599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435599", "title": "USS Herring", "text": "USS Herring\n\nUSS \"Herring\" (SS-233), a \"Gato\"-class submarine, was the only ship of the United States Navy to be named for the herring.\n\nHer keel was laid down 14 July 1941 by the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery, Maine. She was launched on 15 January 1942 (sponsored by Mrs. Emilie Spear (née Piollet), wife of Rear Admiral Ray Spear, Chief of the Bureau of Supplies and Accounts), and commissioned on 4 May 1942 with Lieutenant Commander Raymond W. Johnson (Class of 1930) in command.\n\nAfter shakedown, the new submarine was one of five sent to the Mediterranean Sea to take station off the North African coast prior to Operation Torch, the invasion of North Africa. Reaching her position off Casablanca on 5 November 1942, \"Herring\" remained there, spotting but not attacking several targets. On the morning of 8 November as the invasion was launched, the patient sub had her chance, sinking the 5,700 ton cargo ship \"Ville du Havre\". \"Herring\" returned to Rosneath, Scotland, on 25 November and departed for her second war patrol 16 December, but targets were scarce. The fourth war patrol, an antisubmarine sweep in Icelandic waters, and fifth patrol, which took her back to the United States on 26 July 1943, netted \"Herring\" no more kills.\n\n\"Herring\" departed New London, Connecticut, for the rich hunting grounds of the Pacific on 9 August 1943. After intensive training at Pearl Harbor, she sailed 15 November 1943 on her sixth war patrol to join the ranks of the American submarines systematically decimating Japanese shipping and destroying the Japanese economy. She scored two kills, the 3,948 ton \"Hakozaki Maru\" on 14 December, and the 6,072 ton \"Nagoya Maru\" to celebrate New Year's Day 1944. \"Herring’\"s next patrol was a frustrating one as on 24 March 1944 she stalked a large aircraft carrier but was detected and driven deep before she could attack.\n\nLieutenant Commander Johnson commanded Herring for five of her first six patrols, with the sole exception being March 1943 when John Corbus was in command. On her seventh and eight patrols she was captained by Lieutenant Commander David Zabriskie, Jr.\n\n\"Herring’\"s eighth war patrol was to be both her most successful and her last. Topping off at Midway Island on 21 May 1944, \"Herring\" headed for the Kurile Islands patrol area. Ten days later she rendezvoused with . \"Herring\" was never heard from or seen again. However, Japanese records prove that she sank two ships, \"Ishigaki\" and \"Hokuyo Maru\", on the night of 30 – 31 May. \"Ishigaki\" had been responsible for the sinking of on 7 October 1943. \"Herring\"'s exact manner of loss can also be determined from these records. Two more merchant ships, \"Hiburi Maru\" and \"Iwaki Maru\", were sunk while at anchor in Matsuwa Island on the morning of 1 June 1944. In a counter-attack, enemy shore batteries scored two direct hits on the submarine's conning tower and \"bubbles covered an area about 5 meters wide, and heavy oil covered an area of approximately 15 miles.\" On her last patrol, \"Herring\" had sunk four Japanese ships for a total of 13,202 tons. In all she had sunk six \"maru\"s totaling 19,959 tons, and a Vichy cargo ship.\n\n\"Herring\" received five battle stars for her service in World War II.\n\nThere is a memorial plaque at the Naval Weapons Station in Seal Beach, California, and another one, along with the ship's bell, at Battleship Memorial Park in Mobile, Alabama.\n\nIn June 2005, near the site of the sinking was established a memorial sign to the crew of the lost boats, which fought against the Japanese during the Second World War. The event was held in the fourth Kamchatka-Kuril historical and geographical expedition, led by the Russian researcher Evgeny Vereshaga.\n\nIn 2016 the wreck of \"Herring\" was located near Matua Island by a joint expedition of the Russian Geographical Society and Russian Defense Ministry. Aleksandr Kirillin, secretary of the academic board of Russia’s Military Historical Society, said that \"Russian divers in cooperation with the Pacific Fleet sailors discovered the submarine at a depth of .\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51470343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51470343", "title": "Unnatural Selection (video game)", "text": "Unnatural Selection (video game)\n\nUnnatural Selection is a 1993 game for DOS by Maxis.\n\nIn the game, the player breeds mutant animals to fight battles. The game has two phases, the first is the breeding phase in which in the player uses various objects and methods (food, drugs, radiation) etc to breed the animals which will fight future battles. The second is the battle phase in which the animals are deployed on the battlefield in order to combat those of a rogue scientist.\n\nA 1994 \"Computer Gaming World\" survey of strategic space games set in the year 2000 and later gave the game three-plus stars out of five, stating that it was \"A different concept, \"almost\" carried off with success\".\n"}
{"id": "7630460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7630460", "title": "Walburga, Lady Paget", "text": "Walburga, Lady Paget\n\nWalburga Ehrengarde Helena, Lady Paget (\"née\" Countess von Hohenthal; 1839–1929) was a diarist, writer and an intimate friend of Queen Victoria.\n\nWalburga Ehrengarde Helena, Countess von Hohenthal, was born in 1839 in Berlin, Germany. She was the daughter of Charles Frederic Anthony, Count von Hohenthal. Before her marriage she was a lady-in-waiting to Victoria, Princess Royal, who had married Prince Frederick William of Prussia in 1858.\n\nIn 1860, she married Sir Augustus Berkeley Paget (1823–1896), British ambassador in Copenhagen, and later British Ambassador in Vienna, Portugal, Florence and Rome. After her husband's posting to Copenhagen, Lady Paget helped Queen Victoria to arrange the marriage of the Prince of Wales, afterwards Edward VII, to Princess Alexandra of Denmark. The Pagets had three children:\n\nIn 1867, her husband was posted to Florence, then the capital of the newly formed Italy. In 1870, when Rome became the capital, she arranged for the British embassy to be established at the Villa Torlonia. In 1884 she and her husband had to move to Vienna. In 1887, Lady Paget rented the Villa Caprini in Fiesole, Florence; and in 1893, when her husband retired to Britain, she bought the Torre di Bellosguardo south of the city. When her husband died in 1897 she kept Bellosguardo as her main residence, devoting her time to campaigning – with Vernon Lee, Augustus Hare and others – against the destruction of parts of old Florence by the Municipality, and developing her house and gardens. Queen Victoria visited her in 1893.\n\nIn 1913, amid rumors of war, Lady Paget returned to Britain. Bellosguardo was bought by an Austrian, baroness Marion von Hornstein. In 1929, at the age of ninety, she died of burns after falling asleep by the fire at Unlawater House, Newnham on Severn and was buried next to her husband at Tardebigge, Worcestershire.\n\nLady Paget in her book \"Colloquies with an unseen friend\" (1907) was an early writer to mention the hollow earth theory; she claimed that cities exist beneath a desert, which is where the descendants of Atlantis moved to. She further claimed that an entrance will be discovered to this subterranean kingdom in the 21st century.\n\nLady Paget was also a vegetarian, and she explained her reasons as follows: I strongly condemn the practice, and do not eat flesh-food myself. Two or three years ago I had occasion to read up certain papers about the transport of cattle and slaughter-houses, and as I read the irresistible conviction came upon me that I must choose between giving up the eating of animal food and my peace of mind. These considerations were not the only ones that moved me. I do not think that anyone has a right to indulge in tastes which oblige others to follow a brutalizing and degrading occupation. When you call a man a butcher, it signifies that he is fond of bloodshed. Butchers often become murderers, and I have known cases where butchers have actually been hired to murder persons whom they did not even know... I was almost fully persuaded that the vegetable diet was the most healthful in every way, and my experience has proved it to be so.\n\nHer published works, mostly memoirs of her life and experiences, include:\n\n\n\nTime Magazine. Oct. 21, 1929.\n"}
