{"id": "51053821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51053821", "title": "1972–1975 Bangladesh insurgency", "text": "1972–1975 Bangladesh insurgency\n\n1972-1975 Bangladesh insurgency refers to the period after the independence of Bangladesh when left-wing insurgents, particularly the Gonobahini fought against the government of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.\n\nThe government responded by forming the Jatiya Rakkhi Bahini, which began a crackdown on the general populace. The force became involved in numerous charges of human rights abuse including political killings, shooting by death squads, forced disappearances and rape.\n\nIn 1972, Jatiyo Samajtantrik Dal was formed when it split from Bangladesh Chhatra League, the student wing of the Bangladesh Awami League, under the leadership of Serajul Alam Khan, M. A. Jalil, ASM Abdur Rab and Shahjahan Siraj. Its armed wing, Gonobahini, led by Colonel Abu Taher and Hasanul Haq Inu, began an armed campaign against the government of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in order to establish scientific socialism and a Marxist state.\n\nAnthony Mascarenhas states that by the end of 1973, the number of politically motivated murders in Bangladesh after independence was over 2000. The victims included some members of parliament and many of the murders were resulted of intra-party conflicts within the Awami League. The Gonobahini also killed numerous Bangladesh Chhatra League and Awami League members.\n\nOn the other hand, Maoists such as Siraj Sikder of the Purba Banglar Sarbahara Party and Abdul Haq began attacking the government and people whom they considered \"class enemies\".\n\nThe government responded by forming the Jatiya Rakkhi Bahini. Anthony Mascarenhas claimed that within three years, deaths of mostly Jatiyo Samajtantrik Dal members reached 30,000, all of which were killed by the Jatiya Rakkhi Bahini.\nAfter being freed by Abu Taher and the Gonobahini, Ziaur Rahman realized that the disorder set off by the soldiers' mutiny had to be suppressed firmly if discipline was to be restored in the army. Ziaur Rahman declared martial law, cracked down on the Jatiyo Samajtantrik Dal, Abu Taher was sentenced to death and other party figures had various terms of imprisonment slapped on them.\n\nHuman Rights Watch states that institutionalized violence committed by the Jatiya Rakkhi Bahini during the insurgency, established the culture of impunity and widespread prevalence of abuses by security forces in independent Bangladesh.\n"}
{"id": "3704049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3704049", "title": "Abu Ali Mustapha Brigades", "text": "Abu Ali Mustapha Brigades\n\nThe Abu Ali Mustapha Brigades ( \")\" is the armed wing of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) in the Palestinian territories (the West Bank, Gaza and East Jerusalem).\n\nOriginally named the Red Eagles Brigades the Brigades were renamed in 2001 after Abu Ali Mustafa, the PFLP's leader who was killed by Israel in August 2001. They have been active with attacks on both military and civilian Israeli targets during the al-Aqsa Intifada.\n\nOn the 16 July 2007, Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas requested of all Palestinian resistance groups to relinquish their weapons to the Palestinian Authority. Although several members of Fatah's armed wing Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades complied, the Abu Ali Mustafa brigades rejected this, stating that they will not cease their resistance until the Israelis unoccupy all parts of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.\n\nThe PFLP's Abu Ali Mustapha Brigades has carried out attacks on both civilians and military targets during the Al-Aqsa Intifada. Some of these attacks are:\n\n"}
{"id": "18072232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18072232", "title": "Acetylated distarch adipate", "text": "Acetylated distarch adipate\n\nAcetylated distarch adipate (E1422), is a starch that is treated with acetic anhydride and adipic acid anhydride to resist high temperatures. It is used in foods as a bulking agent, stabilizer and a thickener.\n\nNo acceptable daily intake for human consumption has been determined.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51678199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51678199", "title": "Animal genetic resources for food and agriculture", "text": "Animal genetic resources for food and agriculture\n\nAnimal genetic resources for food and agriculture (AnGR) are a subset of genetic resources (defined by the Convention on Biological Diversity as \"genetic material of actual or potential value\") and a specific element of agricultural biodiversity. The term animal genetic resources refers specifically to the genetic resources of avian and mammalian species, which are used for food and agriculture purposes. Further terms referring to AnGR are \"farm animal genetic resources\" or \"livestock diversity\".\n\nAnGR can be embodied in live populations or in conserved genetic materials such as cryoconserved semen or embryos. The diversity of animal genetic resources includes diversity at species, breed and within-breed level. Known are currently 8,800 different breeds of birds and mammals within 38 species used for food and agriculture. The main animal species used for food and agriculture production are cattle, sheep, goats, chickens and pigs. In the livestock world, these species are often referred to as \"the big five\". Some less-utilized species include the dromedary, donkey, bactrian camel, buffalo, guinea pig, horse, rabbit, yak, goose, duck, ostrich,partridge, pheasant, pigeon, and turkey.\n\nThe history of animal genetic resources begins about 12,000 to 14,000 years ago. The domestication of major crop and livestock species in the early neolithic time period changed our human evolution and lifestyles. This ability to control food production led to major demographic, technological, political and military changes. Consecutively, thousands of years of natural and human selection, genetic drift, inbreeding, and crossbreeding have contributed to the diversification of animal genetic resources and increased the variety of environments and production systems that livestock keeping takes place. Relatively few species have been domesticated; out of the world's 148 non-carnivorous species weighing more than 45 kg, only 15 have been successfully domesticated. The proportion of domesticated birds used for food and agriculture is even lower- 10 out of 10,000. The reason these numbers are so low is because it is rare to find species with all of the behavioral and physiological traits necessary for domestication. These traits include lack of aggression towards humans, a strong gregarious instinct, a \"follow the leader\" dominance hierarchy, a tendency not to panic when disturbed, a diet that can be easily supplied by humans (herbivores), a rapid growth rate, relatively short intervals between births, and large litter size.\n\nBesides their initial domestication, dispersion and migration of these domesticated species has had an equally important impact on shaping the composition of livestock diversity. The process of migration likely varied between regions, but certainly involved the movement of human populations and cultural exchanges between populations. In order to look back and determine where livestock domestication occurred, osteometric information from archaeological sites, and ancient livestock DNA studies are useful tools.\n\nOther factors such as mutations, genetic drift and natural and artificial selection have also played a role in shaping the diversity of livestock populations. As animal populations migrated away from their original sites of domestication, sub-populations were formed through geographic and genetic isolation. Interbreeding within these sub-populations between individuals that thrived in the local prevailing environmental conditions (and were thus better able to reproduce) contributed to the formation of distinct groups of animals, known as breeds. This isolation of sub-populations allowed the simultaneous increase in diversification between these sub-populations and increase in uniformity within them. Human intervention through artificial selection of animals with desirable characteristics further increased the differentiation among and uniformity within breeds. Examples of traits that have been deliberately selected by humans include growth rate, milk or egg production, coat color, meat quality, and age of maturity, among many others. The process of artificial selection has been the main reason for gains in output from commercial breeds, whereas the adaptation of indigenous livestock to diverse and challenging environments (natural selection) has been the main factor for their continued survival and production value. Overall, selection, whether it be natural or artificial, \"generally\" results in reduced genetic variation.\n\nOver the past 250 years the greatest changes in livestock diversity and creation of formal breeds have occurred mainly due to changes that began in England in the late 18th century. These changes have included development of systematic pedigree and performance recording and applying specific breeding objectives. This led to the fixation of breed-specific traits and an increase in productivity. Some breeds were interbred as distinct, isolated populations, while many breeds continued to interact with each other as a result of intentional cross-breeding or unintended introgression. Before the end of the 19th century, several breeds had been absorbed by other populations. In the 19th century, railways and steamships increased the long-distance transportation of livestock. After the Second World War, artificial insemination became common in cattle and pig breeding. As a result of these developments, a limited number of transboundary commercial breeds, such as the Holstein cow and Large White pig, have become very widespread and nowadays increasingly dominate livestock production globally. Thus, understanding the origins and the history of distribution of livestock are central to maintaining their current utilization and long-term conservation as resources.\n\nThe wide number of livestock breeds and the genetic diversity within them mean that animal genetic resources have a substantial value to society. The different breeds provide a wide range of animal products and services for the benefit of humankind. The diversity of animal genetic resources allows livestock to be raised successfully in a diverse range of different environments and underpins the supply of a range of different products and services: from meat, milk and eggs to fuel, manure and draught power. \n\nDiversity also allows the flexibility to change breeding goals if needed and emphasize alternative traits in response to changes in markets or other conditions. For example the Holstein Friesian Cow which is widely used for its whole milk production. Changes in cereal feed availability or demand for low-solid content milk may decrease the advantage of breeding Holstein cows.\n\nDifferent breeds produce specific wool, hairs and leather for clothing, carpets and furniture and are often the basis for traditional garments.\n\nLocal breeds that were developed by a given community often have a huge cultural significance for that community. Livestock are often a source of wealth and are critical for its maintenance. They appear frequently in art and often play key roles in traditional customs, such as religious ceremonies, sporting events and weddings. Cultural ecosystem services also create significant economic opportunities in fields such as tourism (including, in the context of food and agriculture, farm holidays and visits to areas with historical or scenic farming or forest landscapes) and recreational hunting.\n\nBreeds that have been developed primarily through natural selection have effectively evolved with their environments and usually provide ecosystem services, such as landscape management, vegetation control, and promotion of biodiversity, that are critical for maintaining those landscapes. For example, the Engadine sheep, which were near extinction in the 1980s, today help to preserve centuries-old grassland in the Alps by eating invasive shrubs. Grazing livestock also help sequester carbon by removing plant material and encouraging regrowth and thus the movement of carbon from the air into soil organic matter.\n\nGreater livestock diversity allows humans to be better prepared to meet future challenges, such as climate change. Having access to a range of diverse livestock traits may allow for greater ability to cope with harsh climates and emerging diseases. Animals with unique adaptive abilities, such as resistance or tolerance to diseases and pests, or ability to thrive on poor feed and cope with dry or hot climates can help humans be more resilient to changes in climate. Within breeds, greater genetic diversity allows for continued selection for improving a given trait, such as disease resistance.\n\n\"From a formal economic perspective, AnGR can have various different types of value for conservation. These values can be categorized as follows \n\nIncreasing the direct use value will contribute to the economic sustainability of a breed and therefore to the potential for successful conservation activities.\"\n\nThe Pantaneiro cattle of Brazil are only one example of many at risk of extinction. Despite the importance of animal genetic resources, their diversity has been continually decreasing over time.\n\n\"Factors as causes of genetic erosion:\n\n\nOne of the greatest threats to livestock diversity is pressure from large-scale commercial production systems to maintain only high-output breeds. Recent molecular studies have revealed that the diversity of today's indigenous livestock populations greatly exceeds that found in their commercial counterparts.\n\nClimate change and its impact on livestock is being studied. Changes in climate will affect livestock and food production in many ways. In Africa, different regions are predicted to experience different changes in weather patterns. For example, parts of Madagascar and Mozambique are predicted to have a drier than average rainy season, while just north in parts of central Africa, a wetter December–January season is expected.\n\nSome major disease threats that livestock currently face include, rinderpest, foot and mouth disease, and Peste des petits ruminants (PPR), also known as sheep and goat plague.\n\nThe Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has taken initiative and published two global assessments of livestock biodiversity: \"The State of the World's Animal Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture\" (2007) and \"The Second Report on the State of the World's Animal Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture\" (2015).\n\nAlthough many diverse species and breeds of animals are currently available for food and agricultural production, there is more work to be done on classifying their risk of extinction: in 2014, 17% of the world's farm animal breeds are at risk of extinction and 58% are of unknown risk status, meaning that the problem may be underestimated. The world's pool of animal genetic resources is also currently shrinking, with rapid and uncontrolled loss of breeds and conjointly their often uncharacterized genes. Nearly 100 livestock breeds have gone extinct between 2000 and 2014. With the loss of these breeds comes the loss of their unique adaptive traits, which are often under the control of many different genes and complex interactions between the genotype and the environment. In order to protect these unique traits, and the diversity they allow, collaborative global efforts towards the characterization and management of these genetic resources must be made. Unlike plants, which can be easily conserved in seed banks, a large portion of livestock genetic diversity relies on live populations and their interactions with the environment.\n\nProgress is being made in the characterization and management of animal genetic resources for food and agriculture. Recent advances in molecular genetics have provided data on the history and current status of animal genetic resources. Genetic markers and molecular studies are being used to characterize livestock diversity and to reconstruct the events that have shaped the present diversity patterns, including ancestry, prehistoric and historical migrations, admixture, and genetic isolation. Exploration of the past is essential to understand trends and to better characterize the current state of animal genetic resources. In 2009, six years after the completion of the human genome project, cattle became one of the first livestock species to have a fully mapped genome.\n\nSome general conclusions from recent molecular studies show that individual breeds only differ by typically 40% in total genetic molecular composition; species differ by about 80% of their genetic material. Additionally, breeds with well-defined and appreciated traits tend to be inbred and have low genetic diversity, while non-descript local populations tend to have high molecular genetic diversity.\n\nCharacterization of animal genetic resources is a prerequisite for its management. Advances in molecular genetics have provided us with tools to better understand livestock origin and diversity. There are many technologies capable of determining genetic profiles, including whole genome sequencing, shotgun sequencing, RNA sequencing and DNA microarray analysis. These techniques allow us to map genomes and then analyze their implications through bioinformatics and statistical analysis. Molecular genetic studies, especially genome-wide association studies and whole-genome sequencing allow adaptive traits to be linked to genomic regions, genes, or even mutations. For example, horn size, meat quality, gait, and prenatal growth in cattle all have single genes found to be responsible for these phenotypic traits.\n\nSpecific regions of DNA, such as quantitative trait loci (QTL), include genes affecting observable traits and thus have statistically detectable associations with those traits. However, DNA polymorphisms that are not linked to specific traits are now more commonly used as markers for genetic diversity studies. Different levels of genetic diversity information can be obtained from different kinds of genetic markers. For example, autosomal polymorphisms are used for population diversity estimates, estimation of genetic relationships and population genetic admixture, whereas mitochondrial DNA polymorphisms are used to detect geographic regions of domestication, reconstructing migration routes and the number of female founders. Drawing such inferences is possible because mitochondrial DNA sequences are transferred only through egg cells of the female.\n\nSome general conclusions from recent molecular studies show that individual breeds within species show variation at only about 1% of the genome, whereas the variation of genetic material between species is about 80%. Additionally, breeds with well-defined and appreciated traits tend to be inbred and have low genetic diversity, while non-descript local populations tend to have high molecular genetic diversity.\n\nThere are many forms of livestock-keeping, that all have their own pros and cons in terms of maintaining genetic diversity. Systems range from completely human-controlled to wild. They differ in terms of animal management, animal treatment, environmental impact, and market infrastructure.\n\nFor some breeds, opportunities for sustainable use are limited. For such breeds, to ensure that their critical genetic diversity is not lost, conservation programs are required. Several approaches for conservation can be applied, including in situ conservation with live animal populations, and ex situ conservation or cryoconservation involving the freezing of genetic materials. In many instances, both of these approached are used in a complementary manner. In order to establish and strengthen these programs, more research on methods and technologies must be undertaken, especially for less common livestock species, and greater financial investment is required.\n\nMany countries are currently operating conservation programs for their animal genetic resources, at least for some species and breeds. In situ conservation programs are the most commonly used approach.\n\nThe management of issues regarding animal genetic resources on the global level is addressed by the Commission on Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture (CGRFA), which is a body of FAO. In May 1997, The CGRFA established an Intergovernmental Technical Working Group on Animal Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture (ITWG-AnGR). The ITWG-AnGR's objectives are to review the situation and issues related to agrobiodiversity of animal genetic resources for food and agriculture. With this knowledge it can make recommendations and advise the Commission on these matters, and consider progress resulting from proposed interventions. This group worked with many partners and countries to produce the First Report on the State of Animal Genetic Resources, which served as the basis for creating the Global Plan of Action for Animal Genetic Resources (GPA). In 2007, the GPA was adopted by 109 countries as the first agreed international framework for the management of livestock biodiversity. The implementation of the GPA is overseen, monitored and evaluated by the CGRFA. The funding for this program arrives from a wide range of actors, under the guidelines of the \"Funding Strategy for the Implementation of the Global Plan of Action for Animal Genetic Resources\".\n\nThe access and benefit sharing of animal genetic resources are currently regulated by the Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit sharing, which is an agreement to the 1992 Convention on Biological Diversity. The Nagoya Protocol entered into force on 12 October 2014 and aims to provide a legal framework for the fair and equitable distribution of benefits arising from the utilization of all genetic resources, including animal genetic resources for food and agriculture. This protocol may have both positive and negative impacts on the exchange of animal genetic resources between signatory countries.\n\nWithin the Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development, AnGR are addressed under the target 2.5: \"By 2020, maintain the genetic diversity of seeds, cultivated plants and farmed and domesticated animals and their related wild species, including through soundly managed and diversified seed and plant banks at the national, regional and international levels, and promote access to and fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge, as internationally agreed.\"\n\nWhich is monitored by the following indicators:\n\n\"2.5.1: Number of plant and animal genetic resources for food and agriculture secured in either medium or long term conservation facilities.\n\n2.5.2: Proportion of local breeds, classified as being at risk, not at risk or unknown level of risk of extinction.\"\n\nAlthough policies can have some negative consequences, they are nonetheless important. Lack of adequate policies can lead to the insufficient capacity to manage AnGRs, further a loss of genetic diversity and marginalization of relevant stakeholders, such as pastoralists, who are valuable players in maintaining livestock diversity.\n\nTo help regulate the ownership of genetic resources and control their utilization is one example where policies are necessary. Patenting of genetic resources is one approach that has been applied. Patenting of animal genetic resources reached its apex in the late 1990s, focusing on expressed sequence tags (ESTs) and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with associations in economically important traits. SNPs are important in marker-assisted breeding for the identification of traits such as meat or milk quality. At the same time, patenting activity involving transgenic livestock also increased. However, work on patents and characterization of AnGR declined sharply from 2001, caused by a combination of factors including an increasingly restrictive approach to the patentability of DNA sequences by patent offices and a lack of markets for food products from transgenic animals. Trends in activity arising from genome sequencing projects merit careful attention with regard to their implications (positive or negative) for animal genetic resources management.\n\nIncreasingly complex issues are emerging that require balancing the interests of many stakeholders. In a time of rapid and unregulated change, livestock and their products should be used sustainably, developed and ultimately conserved. National planning should integrate \"consumer affairs, human health matters, and the management of new biotechnologies, as well as physical and spatial planning of animal production in the context of urban expansion and protected areas.\"\n\nThere are many online databases for policies, national laws, treaties and regulations on food, agriculture and renewable natural resources, including animal genetic resources. FAOLEX is one of the largest online databases, and is run by FAO.\n\n"}
{"id": "1750878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1750878", "title": "Anti-Soviet agitation", "text": "Anti-Soviet agitation\n\nAnti-Soviet Agitation and Propaganda (ASA) () was a criminal offence in the Soviet Union. To begin with the term was interchangeably used with counter-revolutionary agitation. The latter term was in use immediately after the first Russian Revolution in February 1917. The offence was codified in criminal law in the 1920s, and revised in the 1950s in two articles of the RSFSR Criminal Code. The offence was widely used against Soviet dissidents.\n\nThe new Criminal Codes of the 1920s introduced the offence of \"Anti-Soviet Agitation and Propaganda\" as one of the many forms of counter-revolutionary activity grouped together under Article 58 of the Russian RSFSR Penal Code. The article was put in force on 25 February 1927 and remained in force throughout the period of Stalinism. Article 58:10, \"propaganda and agitation that called to overturn or undermining of the Soviet regime\", was punishable with at least 6 months of imprisonment, up to and including the death sentence in periods of war or unrest.\n\nAs applied in Stalin's time, the phrase in practise could mean virtually anything that a State security interrogator or informant wanted it to mean; consequently, the charge became an exceedingly potent weapon in political or personal quarrels and intrigues.\n\nThe offence was significantly revised in the post-Stalin Criminal Code of the RSFSR, introduced in 1958. Article 58.10 was replaced by Article 70, Anti-Soviet Agitation and Propaganda.\n\nIt was defined as: \n\nThe penalty was from six months to 7 years of imprisonment, with possible subsequent internal exile from 2 to 5 years. Article 70 was considered by critics of the Soviet System to be a grave violation of freedom of speech. It was one of the two main legal instruments for the prosecution of Soviet dissidents, the other being Article 190 of the RSFSR Criminal Code. Other means of control were extrajudicial, such as the use of punitive psychiatry or the generalised offence of the social parasitism. In particular, the clause about literature targeted \"samizdat\".\n\nWhile the clauses were phrased using the provision \"with the purpose of\", official commentaries (referred to as \"Additions and Explanations to...\"), as well as the actual legal practice made it sufficient to assert that the prosecuted person of sane mind must have realized the malicious implications of their utterances.\n\nShortly after the Sinyavsky-Daniel trial, the Soviet Penal Code was augmented with Article 190-1, Dissemination of knowingly false fabrications that defame the Soviet state and social system (1966), which was a weaker version of Article 70. It basically repeated the Article 70, with the omitted provision of the \"anti-Soviet purpose\". The penalty was lower: up to 3 years of imprisonment.\n\nPetro Grigorenko in his memoirs wrote that any critique of the Soviet government or events in the Soviet Union was easily classified as ASA. Dissemination of any information which was not officially recognized was classified as \"Anti-Soviet slander\". In this way nearly all members of Helsinki Watch were imprisoned. Anti-Soviet political behavior, in particular, being outspoken in opposition to the authorities, demonstrating for reform, writing books were defined in some persons as being simultaneously a criminal act (e.g., violation of Articles 70 or 190-1), a symptom (e.g., \"delusion of reformism\"), and a diagnosis (e.g., \"sluggish schizophrenia\"). The 70th and 190th Articles of the Criminal Code concerning \"slanderous fabrications that discredited the Soviet system\" and \"anti-Soviet agitation and propaganda\" served as the formal basis to sentence Vladimir Bukovsky, Pyotr Grigorenko, Valeria Novodvorskaya, Zhores Medvedev, Andrei Amalrik and many others to months and sometimes years of indefinite confinement in psychiatric institutions.\n\nOn 19 February 1986, Andrei Dmitrievich Sakharov in his letter to Mikhail Gorbachev wrote, \"application by courts of Articles 70 and 190-1 is pronounced persecution for beliefs.\"\n\nIn 1990, just before the very end of the Soviet regime, \"Anti-Soviet agitation and propaganda\" was excluded from the RSFSR Criminal Code after three decades of its application.\n\nIn April 1989, Article 70 was reformulated as part of a series of statutory changes made under perestroika. It was more strictly formulated and became explicitly related to violent actions. The terms \"anti-Soviet agitation and propaganda\" were replaced by \"public appeals\", \"subversion\" (\"podryv\", подрыв) and \"overthrow\" (\"sverzheniye\", свержение).\n\nIn October 1992, following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Russian law retained an offense of \"public appeals to alter the constitutional order by force or to seize power, as well as the largescale distribution of material with such content\", punishable by detention for a period of up to three years or a fine of twenty monthly minimum wages.\n\nIn the new Criminal Code of the Russian Federation, effective from 1 January 1997, the offence of \"anti-Soviet propaganda\" has no parallel. More recently a retrogressive trend in amendments to existing laws led attorney Henri Reznik to raise the alarm about the appearance of the phrase \"anti-Russian\" in certain legislative proposals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29314054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29314054", "title": "Betty Miller Unterberger", "text": "Betty Miller Unterberger\n\nBetty Miller Unterberger (December 27, 1922 – May 15, 2012) was a historian, who as professor of American international relations spent the bulk of her extensive academic career at Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas. In 1968, she became the first woman employed as a full professor on the faculty of the formerly all-male institution, where she remained until her retirement in 2004, at the age of 81.\n\nUnterberger was born in Glasgow, Scotland, to Joseph \"Scotty\" Miller and the former Leah Milner, but was reared in the United States. In 1943, aided with a scholarship in speech, she obtained her Bachelor of Arts degree from Syracuse University in Syracuse, New York. Her central interests were in history and political science, however. In 1946, she received the Master of Arts in history from the women's Radcliffe College in Cambridge, Massachusetts, now part of Harvard University.\n\nUnterberger was particularly influenced at Radcliffe/ Harvard by the diplomatic historian Thomas A. Bailey, a visiting scholar from Stanford University. It was from Bailey that she learned about American troops sent to Siberia in Russia at the end of World War I during the Civil War between the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks. Her Ph.D. dissertation at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina, became the basis for her first book on the subject, the award-winning \"America's Siberian Expedition, 1918-1920: A Study of National Policy\".\n\nAt Duke, Unterberger enrolled in a seminar with Professor Charles Sydnor. She wrote a paper on Thomas Braidwood of Scotland and the origin of schools for the hearing impaired. This article, \"The First Attempt to Establish an Oral School for the Deaf and Dumb in the United States,\" was published in 1947 in the \"Journal of Southern History\" and became the first of her many publications. It is on a much different topic than her later writings, the majority of which focus on foreign policy.\n\nFrom 1948-1950, while she was still working on her Ph.D., Unterberger taught at East Carolina University in Greenville, North Carolina. From 1954 to 1961, she was an associate professor of history and the director of the Liberal Arts Center for Adults at Whittier College, and from 1961–1965, an associate professor at California State University, Fullerton, where she was also from 1965 to 1968 professor and chair of the graduate studies division.\nIn 1968, Unterberger came to Texas A&M University as a full professor. Her appointment coincidentally developed when her husband, Robert Ruppe Unterberger (April 27, 1921 – February 14, 2016), accepted a full professorship in geophysics there. In his career, Robert Unterberger researched unique forms of radar and sonar and obtained several international patents. \"I felt very much alone [as a woman] at Texas A&M, but it wasn't strange to me,\" Unterberger said much later (There had been only three women professors in southern California at the time that the Unterbergers came to Texas). \"I had been told that I [was] taking the bread out of the mouths of deserving male grad students,\" Unterberger often recalled. Offered a full professorship by Horace R. Byers, then the Texas A&M vice president for academic affairs, Unterberger recalled that he asked her to \"internationalize the history department and build the graduate program. I love to build programs, and this was a wonderful challenge.\"\n\nUnterberger related how she became close to the first African American student who attended her class in 1969: \"He came to see me in tears one day saying that on his dormitory room was a big sign that said 'N--- Go Home!' I took him under my wing. I tried to have students understand one another. The only thing that makes us different is our backgrounds, experience, and differences in cultures.\" By 1976, TAMU had elected its first black student body president, Fred McClure. She also invited her students on occasion for social gatherings at her home.\n\nFrom January to August 1979, Unterberger was a Woodrow Wilson Fellow at Princeton University. From the late 1980s on, she was a frequent visiting professor, teaching at the University of California, Irvine in 1987, at Peking University's Institute of International Relations in 1988, and at Prague's Charles University in 1992. In 1991, she was appointed Patricia and Bookman Peters Professor of History at Texas A&M, and in 2000 was elevated to Regents professor of the Texas A&M University System.\nA high point of Unterberger's career was her election in 1986 as president of the Society for Historians of American Foreign Relations, an organization 99 percent male founded in 1967, running against Robert Dallek. Toward the end of her career, she developed an interest in India and Pakistan, particularly the work of Pandurang Shastri Athavale, or \"Dada\", the founder of the Swadhyay Movement. According to her, Swadhyay had \"liberated millions from poverty and moral dissipation.\" In 1997, she successfully nominated Athavale for the $1.3 million Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion.\n\nUnterberger served on the Central Intelligence Agency Advisory Committee for Access to Documents and Open Information. She received a personal letter of appreciation for her service from Leon Panetta, the then CIA director.\n\n\nIn 2004, the Betty M. Unterberger Dissertation Prize was established by the Society for Historians of American Foreign Relations in her honor. The prize, awarded biannually in the amount of $1,000, recognizes distinguished research and writing by graduate students in the field of diplomatic history. It has been awarded since 2005 in odd years.\n\nRobert Unterberger also held a Ph.D. from Duke University. Howard Mumford Jones, Unterberger's Harvard graduate school advisor, had urged her to marry Robert. At first reluctant, she consented after being stricken by influenza. Robert Unterberger served in both World War II and the Korean War. He was severely injured when his jeep blew up in the Philippines two days after the official end of World War II. The Unterbergers were the parents of Glen Alan Unterberger (1951–1978); the Reverend Dr. Gail L. Unterberger (born 1952), the wife of Randall Adams; and Gregg R. Unterberger (born 1958). Howard Jones had much impact on Unterberger, having introduced her to the technical advantages of having a dictaphone in her historical writing.\nBoth Robert and Betty Unterberger were cancer survivors. He overcame prostate cancer. She endured four surgeries between 1950 and 1964. The couple resided in College Station, where she died at the age of 89; he at 94, in 2016. There were memorial services for both in 2012 and 2016, respectively, at the All Faith Chapel on the Texas A&M campus. Both were cremated.\n"}
{"id": "57197206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57197206", "title": "Bombardment of Algiers (1683)", "text": "Bombardment of Algiers (1683)\n\nThe bombardment of Algiers in 1683 was a French naval operation against the Regency of Algiers during the Franco-Algerian War of 1681-88. It led to the rescue of more than 100 French prisoners, in some cases after decades of captivity, but the great majority of Christian slaves in Algiers were not liberated.\n\nThe previous year, Louis XIV had ordered Duquesne to bombard Algiers after the Dey declared war on France. At the head of a forty-strong fleet, Duquesne sailed to Algiers in July 1682, but bad weather delayed his attack. After several bombardments in August, the city suffered serious damage, but bad weather prevented the signing of a conclusive peace agreement, forcing Duquesne to return to France.\n\nIn the Spring of 1683, Duquesne set to sea once again with a fleet of 17 ships of the line, 3 frigates, 16 galleys, 7 bomb galiots, 48 longboats, 18 fluyts and 8 tartanes. This was a larger force than had been sent to Algiers the previous year. As well as being more numerous, the galiots were better equipped and manned by a special corps of bombardiers. The fleet set sail from Toulon on 23 May.\n\nThe bombardment began on the night of 26-27 June, and two hundred and twenty two bombs, launched in less than twenty four hours, started fires in Algiers and prompted general disorder as well as killing around 300 Algerians. Hassan Dey intended to resist nonetheless, but the population urged him to sue for peace. Duquesne agreed to a truce on condition that all Christian slaves were delivered to him. When the truce expired, Hassan Dey asked for, and received, an extension. Duquesne meanwhile set out his terms for agreeing a peace:\n\n\nThese terms resolved the Dey to continue resistance.\nOne of the Algerian commanders, Mezzo Morto Hüseyin Pasha, then seized command and denounced the cowardice of the Dey, who had agreed to treat with the French. He had him put to death and was acclaimed as his successor by the janissaries. Before long a red flag, raised from the heights of the Casbah, announced to Duquesne that combat was resumed. The Algerians replied to the bombs hurled at their city by tying the French consul, Jean Le Vacher to the mouth of a cannon. On 28 July pieces of his shattered limbs fell on the decks of the French vessels, along with those of other French prisoners blown to pieces. \n\nDespite the fierce resistance of the Algerians, the city was engulfed by an enormous fire which consumed palaces, mosques, and many other buildings across the city; the wounded could not find any refuge; and ammunition ran low. Algiers would have been reduced to ruins had not Duquesne himself run out of missiles. The bombardment ended on 29 July. \n\nThe pride of the Algerian pirates was crushed, and as the French fleet returned to France, Algiers sent an embassy under Djiafar-Aga-Effendi to ask forgiveness of Louis XIV, for the injuries and cruelty that the corsairs had inflicted on France.\n\nThe new Dey Mezzo Morto Hüseyin Pasha agreed to free another 546 captives, but refused to sign a peace agreement with Duquesne, who was then 79 years of age, so Louis XIV sent another envoy, Tourville, to treat with him. A hundred year peace was agreed, including a provision to leave the coasts of France unmolested. Five years later, after Algiers violated the treaty, the French again bombarded the city. Admiral d'Estrées obliged the Dey to seek a new peace agreement, signed on 27 September 1688, which the Algerians respected. Thereafter the corsair captains, though they avoided the coasts of France, continued their raids elsewhere, causing considerable damage to the coastal regions of Spain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4027455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4027455", "title": "Borough (Pennsylvania)", "text": "Borough (Pennsylvania)\n\nIn the U.S. commonwealth of Pennsylvania, a borough (sometimes spelled boro) is a self-governing municipal entity, best thought of as a town, usually smaller than a city, but with a similar population density in its residential areas. \n\nBoroughs also tend to have more developed business districts and concentrations of public and commercial office buildings, including court houses. Both are larger, less spacious, more developed than the relatively rural townships, which often have the greater territory and even surround boroughs of a related or even the same name. There are 958 boroughs and 56 cities in Pennsylvania, but only one town, the town of Bloomsburg.\nAll municipalities in Pennsylvania are classified as either cities, boroughs, or townships. The only exception is the town of Bloomsburg, which is recognized by state government as the only incorporated town in Pennsylvania and uses the distinction in its promotion. Many home rule municipalities remain classified as boroughs or townships for certain purposes even if the state's Borough and Township Codes no longer apply to them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53399686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53399686", "title": "Campaign for Socialism", "text": "Campaign for Socialism\n\nCampaign for Socialism (CfS) is an autonomous pressure group of Scottish Labour Party members and supporters who campaign for left-wing policies and candidates within the party. In 2016, CfS agreed to a joint membership scheme with Momentum, a UK-wide grassroots movement supportive of Jeremy Corbyn and his leadership of the Labour Party.\n\nCfS was originally formed in 1994 to campaign against the removal of Clause IV from the Labour Party's constitution. By 2012, it was one of the only remaining ideological-based groupings in the party but Gerry Hassan and Eric Shaw, writing that year, claimed that CfS \"has few members, little organisational presence and has had a negligible influence on the direction of the party\".\n\nCfS played a key role in organising Neil Findlay and Katy Clark's leadership bid in the Scottish Labour Party leadership election, 2014. Though unsuccessful, CfS claims the campaign \"built the foundations for Jeremy [Corbyn]'s campaign just a few months later\" by \"giving many new, young volunteers experience and a network of contacts across the country that would help quickly mobilise an effective campaign\".\n\nIn 2016, Scottish Labour Young Socialists founded in 2015 became CfS's official youth wing. \n\nIn 2017, five CfS members won seats on the Scottish Labour Party's national executive. They called for the then Scottish Labour leader, Kezia Dugdale, to pursue a socialist agenda and work more closely with Jeremy Corbyn's team.\n\nCfS endorsed Richard Leonard to be the next leader of Scottish Labour following the resignation of Kezia Dugdale in August, 2017. Leonard went on to win the leadership with 56.7% of the vote.\n\nNotable members of CfS include former Convenor Elaine Smith MSP, current Convenor Neil Findlay MSP, Hugh Gaffney MP, and Pauline Bryan.\n"}
{"id": "7497955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7497955", "title": "Chief privacy officer", "text": "Chief privacy officer\n\nThe chief privacy officer (CPO) is a senior level executive within a United States-based business or organization. \"Consumer concerns over the use of personal information, including medical data and financial information along with laws and regulations\", is one of the key reasons that the CPO role exists, as this was introduced to help keep personal information safe.\n\nThere is legislation in different sectors concerning the use of personal information. For example, in medical industry, the protection of patient medical records (e.g. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA). Another example is in the finance sector with the safeguarding of consumer financial and banking transactions (e.g. The Fair Credit Reporting Act and its Disposal Rule, and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and its Safeguards Rule and Financial Privacy Rule).\n\nIn the United States, the position of chief information officer was first established at Acxiom Corporation in 1991 with the appointment of Jennifer Barrett as CPO, with the second appointment of CPO at the Internet advertising firm AllAdvantage in August 1999, when it appointed privacy lawyer Ray Everett-Church to the newly created position, starting a trend that quickly spread among major corporations, both offline and online. The role of the Chief Privacy Officer was solidified within the U.S. corporate world in November 2000 with the naming of Harriet Pearson as Chief Privacy Officer for IBM Corporation. That event prompted one influential analyst to declare, \"the chief privacy officer is a trend whose time has come.\" \n\nBy 2001, the non-profit research organization Privacy and American Business reported that a significant number of Fortune 500 firms had appointed senior executives with the title or role of Chief Privacy Officer. The growth of the Chief Privacy Officer trend was further fueled by the European Union's passage in the late 1990s of data privacy laws and regulations that included a requirement for all corporations to have an individual designated to be accountable for privacy compliance.\n\nBy 2002, the position of Chief Privacy Officer and similar privacy-related management positions were sufficiently widespread to support the creation of professional societies and trade associations to promote training and certification programs. In 2002 the largest of these organizations, the Privacy Officers Association and the Association of Corporate Privacy Officers, merged to form the International Association of Privacy Officers, which was later renamed the International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP). The IAPP holds several conferences and training seminars each year around the world, hosting association members from major global corporations and government agencies, with executives seeking certification programs in privacy management practices.\n\nSome of the key responsibilities that a CPO has to have are: being able to use business strategies and procedures and apply it to the business, being able to organize plans and lastly looking at privacy program reviews by checking and analyzing the information to ensure it is correct. They are also responsible for making sure data is secure from unauthorized users and making. They would also have to help to improve systems for auditing and monitoring, to therefore resolve any privacy issues.\n\nAs a CPO is responsible for all the privacy of the data in an organization, one major part of their job is to avoid data breaches, especially if the organization is a large corporation. However some major companies have been hacked and have data breaches.\n\nThese include:\n\nData breaches are commonly high-profile events and not only the reputation of the CPO will be affected but also the company's reputation, impacting consumer confidence.\n\nOne key quality a CPO will need to have is being good at communicating, because poor communication could lead to a leakage of data which the CPO would be accountable for. Another quality a CPO should have is staying aware of any new developments and risks in the field.\n\nThere are some major benefits to having a CPO in your organization. The first would be that they help to keep data secure, so this ensures that security of data is not compromised. Another benefit is that they help develop policies which is why \"\"30% of CPOs are attorneys\" and \"15% are in the information security department\"\". Therefore, this means that CPO can legally help to ensure that the data stays secure. In terms of what industries a CPO can be beneficial, a CPO would be favorable in almost every sector. For example, the finance sector is perhaps one of the main areas where you are dealing with consumer information. It's not just the finance sector, basically anywhere you have and store customers information, a CPO would be a good idea as they will help to ensure that customers data is safe.\n\nThere are also some drawbacks to having a CPO in your organization, the first being cost. According to payscale.com the average salary for a CPO in the United States is over 6 figures, roughly about $107,000 per year. Another drawback to having a CPO in your business would be that some may argue that it's just too much power for one person to have, especially if they are dealing with personal information.\n\n\nhttp://www.ehcca.com/presentations/HIPAA/saunders-mon.pdf\n"}
{"id": "29646465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29646465", "title": "Christianity and colonialism", "text": "Christianity and colonialism\n\nChristianity and colonialism are often closely associated because Catholicism and Protestantism were the religions of the European colonial powers and acted in many ways as the \"religious arm\" of those powers. According to Edward Andrews, Christian missionaries were initially portrayed as \"visible saints, exemplars of ideal piety in a sea of persistent savagery\". However, by the time the colonial era drew to a close in the last half of the twentieth century, missionaries became viewed as \"ideological shock troops for colonial invasion whose zealotry blinded them\", colonialism's \"agent, scribe and moral alibi.\"\n\nChristianity is targeted by critics of colonialism because the tenets of the religion were used to justify the actions of the colonists. For example, Toyin Falola asserts that there were some missionaries who believed that \"the agenda of colonialism in Africa was similar to that of Christianity\". Falola cites Jan H. Boer of the Sudan United Mission as saying, \"Colonialism is a form of imperialism based on a divine mandate and designed to bring liberation - spiritual, cultural, economic and political - by sharing the blessings of the Christ-inspired civilization of the West with a people suffering under satanic oppression, ignorance and disease, effected by a combination of political, economic and religious forces that cooperate under a regime seeking the benefit of both ruler and ruled.\"\n\nEdward Andrews writes:\n\nHistorians have traditionally looked at Christian missionaries in one of two ways. The first church historians to catalogue missionary history provided hagiographic descriptions of their trials, successes, and sometimes even martyrdom. Missionaries were thus visible saints, exemplars of ideal piety in a sea of persistent savagery. However, by the middle of the twentieth century, an era marked by civil rights movements, anti-colonialism, and growing secularization, missionaries were viewed quite differently. Instead of godly martyrs, historians now described missionaries as arrogant and rapacious imperialists. Christianity became not a saving grace but a monolithic and aggressive force that missionaries imposed upon defiant natives. Indeed, missionaries were now understood as important agents in the ever-expanding nation-state, or \"ideological shock troops for colonial invasion whose zealotry blinded them.\"\nAccording to Jake Meador, \"some Christians have tried to make sense of post-colonial Christianity by renouncing practically everything about the Christianity of the colonizers. They reason that if the colonialists’ understanding of Christianity could be used to justify rape, murder, theft, and empire then their understanding of Christianity is completely wrong. \"\n\nAccording to Lamin Sanneh, \"(m)uch of the standard Western scholarship on Christian missions proceeds by looking at the motives of individual missionaries and concludes by faulting the entire missionary enterprise as being part of the machinery of Western cultural imperialism.\" As an alternative to this view, Sanneh presents a different perspective arguing that \"missions in the modern era have been far more, and far less, than the argument about motives customarily portrayed.\"\n\nMichael Wood asserts that the indigenous peoples were not considered to be human beings and that the colonisers was shaped by \"centuries of Ethnocentrism, and Christian monotheism, which espoused one truth, one time and version of reality.\"\n\nDuring the Age of Discovery, the Catholic Church inaugurated a major effort to spread Christianity in the New World and to convert the Native Americans and other indigenous people. The missionary effort was a major part of, and a partial justification for the colonial efforts of European powers such as Spain, France and Portugal. Christian Missions to the indigenous peoples ran hand-in-hand with the colonial efforts of Catholic nations. In the Americas and other colonies in Asia and Africa, most missions were run by religious orders such as the Augustinians, Franciscans, Jesuits and Dominicans.\n\nIn both Portugal and Spain, religion was an integral part of the state and evangelization was seen as having both secular and spiritual benefits. Wherever these powers attempted to expand their territories or influence, missionaries would soon follow. By the Treaty of Tordesillas, the two powers divided the world between them into exclusive spheres of influence, trade and colonization. The Roman Catholic world order was challenged by the Netherlands and England. Theoretically, it was repudiated by Grotius's \"Mare Liberum\". Portugal's and Spain's colonial policies were also challenged by the Roman Catholic Church itself. The Vatican founded the Congregatio de Propaganda Fide in 1622 and attempted to separate the churches from the influence of the Iberian kingdoms.\n\nJan van Butselaar writes that \"for Prince Henry the Navigator and his contemporaries, the colonial enterprise was based on the necessity to develop European commerce and the obligation to propagate the Christian faith.\"\n\nChristian leaders and Christian doctrines have been accused of justifying and perpetrating violence against Native Americans found in the New World.\n\nAdriaan van Oss wrote:\n\nIf we had to choose a single, irreducible idea underlying Spanish colonialism in the New World, it would undoubtedly be the propagation of the Catholic faith. Unlike such other European as England or the Netherlands, Spain insisted on converting the natives of the lands it conquered to its state religion. Miraculously, it succeeded. Introduced in the context of Iberian expansionism, Catholicism outlived the empire itself and continues to thrive, not as an anachronistic vestige among the elite, but as a vital current even in remote mountain villages. Catholicism remains the principal colonial heritage of Spain in America. More than any set of economic relationships with the outside world, more even than the language first brought to America's shores in 1492, the Catholic religion continues to permeate Spanish-American culture today, creating an overriding cultural unity which transcends the political and national boundaries dividing the continent.\nThe Spaniards were committed, by Vatican decree, to convert their New World indigenous subjects to Catholicism. However, often initial efforts were questionably successful, as the indigenous people added Catholicism into their longstanding traditional ceremonies and beliefs. The many native expressions, forms, practices, and items of art could be considered idolatry and prohibited or destroyed by Spanish missionaries, military, and civilians. This included religious items, sculptures, and jewelry made of gold or silver, which were melted down before shipment to Spain.\n\nThough the Spanish did not impose their language to the extent they did their religion, some indigenous languages of the Americas evolved into replacement with Spanish, and lost to present day tribal members. When more efficient they did evangelize in native languages. Introduced writing systems to the Quechua, Nahuatl and Guarani peoples may have contributed to their expansion.\n\nIn the early years most mission work was undertaken by the religious orders. Over time it was intended that a normal church structure would be established in the mission areas. The process began with the formation of special jurisdictions, known as apostolic prefectures and apostolic vicariates. These developing churches eventually graduated to regular diocesan status with the appointment of a local bishop. After decolonization, this process increased in pace as church structures altered to reflect new political-administrative realities.\nRalph Bauer describes the Franciscan missionaries as having been \"unequivocally committed to Spanish imperialism, condoning the violence and coercion of the Conquest as the only viable method of bringing American natives under the saving rule of Christianity.\" Jordan writes \"The catastrophe of Spanish America's rape at the hands of the Conquistadors remains one of the most potent and pungent examples in the entire history of human conquest of the wanton destruction of one culture by another in the name of religion\"\n\nAntonio de Montesinos, a Dominican friar on the island of Hispaniola, was the first member of the clergy to publicly denounce all forms of enslavement and oppression of the indigenous peoples of the Americas. Theologians such as Francisco de Vitoria and Bartolomé de las Casas drew up theological and philosophical bases for the defense of the human rights of the colonized native populations, thus creating the basis of international law, regulating the relationships between nations.\n\nThe French colonial effort began later than that of the Spanish or Portuguese.\n\nUnder the rule of Kaahumanu the newly converted Protestant widow of Kamehameha the Great, Catholicism was illegal in Hawaii and chiefs loyal to her forcibly deported French priests onto the \"Artemise\". Native Hawaiian Catholic converts were imprisoned and Protestant ministers ordered them to be tortured. The prejudice against the French Catholics missionaries remained the same under the reign of her successor, the Kuhina Nui Ka'ahumanu II.\nIn 1839 Captain Laplace of the French frigate \"Artémise\" sailed to Hawaii under orders to:\nDestroy the malevolent impression which you find established to the detriment of the French name; to rectify the erroneous opinion which has been created as to the power of France; and to make it well understood that it would be to the advantage of the chiefs of those islands of the Ocean to conduct themselves in such a manner as not to incur the wrath of France. You will exact, if necessary with all the force that is yours to use, complete reparation for the wrongs which have been committed, and you will not quit those places until you have left in all minds a solid and lasting impression.\n\nChristian missionaries had mixed success in the Far East. After initial success in Japan, the government crackdown and destroy the Christian missions; they never recovered. In China there was limited success in some places. In India, the British missionaries were often in conflict with British administrators and businessmen. Missionaries had moderate success among the scheduled classes. In French-controlled Vietnam, and a Japanese-controlled Korea, the Christian missionaries had significant success in terms of membership.\n\nChristianity had a more subtle effect, reaching far beyond the converted population to potential modernizers. The introduction of European medicine was especially important, as well as the introduction of European political practices and ideals ideals such as religious liberty, mass education, mass printing, newspapers, voluntary organizations, colonial reforms, and especially liberal democracy. \n\nChristian evangelists were intimately involved in the colonial process in southern Africa. The Portuguese sent missions into Africa.\n\nIn the mid-19th century, Protestant missions were engaged in active missionary work on the Guinea coast, in South Africa and in the Zanzibar dominions. Missionaries visited little-known regions and peoples, and in many instances became explorers and pioneers of trade and empire. David Livingstone, a Scottish missionary, had been engaged since 1840 in work north of the Orange River.\n\nAccording to Heather Sharkey, the real impact of the activities of the missionaries is still a topic open to debate in academia today. Sharkey asserted that \"the missionaries played manifold roles in colonial Africa and stimulated forms of cultural, political and religious change.\" \"Historians still debate the nature of their impact and question their relation to the system of European colonialism in the continent.\"\n\nAccording to Sharkey, some observers believe that the missionaries did great good in Africa, providing crucial social services such as education and health care that would have otherwise not been available to the Africans. Sharkey said that, in societies that were traditionally male-dominated, female missionaries provided women in Africa with health care knowledge and basic education.\n\n"}
{"id": "13034015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13034015", "title": "Court of Audit (Netherlands)", "text": "Court of Audit (Netherlands)\n\nThe Court of Audits (in Dutch: \"Algemene Rekenkamer\") is an independent body that audits the spending of the national government on its efficiency and legitimacy. The Court is appointed by cabinet on the advice of the House of Representatives. The Court of Audit is a High Council of State.\n\n"}
{"id": "40522740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40522740", "title": "Dagga Party", "text": "Dagga Party\n\nIqela Lentsango: The Dagga Party of South Africa (more commonly known as the Dagga Party) is a South African political party founded in February 2009 by Jeremy Acton, who remains the party's leader. \"Dagga\" is a South African colloquial term for cannabis, the legalisation of which forms the core of the party's platform. The Dagga Party was established to allow voters who support the legalisation of dagga to have representation in elections.\n\nThe party failed to register with the Independent Electoral Commission in order to contest the 2014 South African general election, missing the deadline because the required R200,000 registration fee could not be raised in time.\n\nThe party's position is that cannabis users should have the same rights as people who use tobacco and alcohol.\n\nActon was one of the people responsible for bringing the case before a South African court which resulted in the partial decriminalisation of dagga in South Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "5399993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5399993", "title": "Derogation", "text": "Derogation\n\nDerogation is the partial suppression of a law, as opposed to abrogation—total abolition of a law by explicit repeal—and obrogation—the partial or total modification or repeal of a law by the imposition of a later and contrary one. The term is used in canon law, civil law, and common law. It is sometimes used, loosely, to mean abrogation, as in the legal maxim: \"Lex posterior derogat priori\", i.e. a subsequent law imparts the abolition of a previous one.\n\nDerogation differs from dispensation in that it applies to the law, whereas dispensation applies to specific people affected by the law. \n\nThat is to say, in canon law a \"dispensation\" affirms the validity of a law, but asserts that the law will not be held to apply to one or more specific persons, for a specific reason. (For example, while the Catholic Church's canon law does not normally recognise gender transition, an intersex woman may present appropriate medical documentation to seek, and possibly receive, a dispensation from the Holy See to live and be recognised as a man, or vice versa.) \"Derogation\", on the other hand, affects the \"general\" applicability of a law. \n\nA non-canon-law analogue of dispensation might be the issuing of a zoning variance to a particular business, while a general rezoning applied to all properties in an area is more analogous to derogation.\n\nIn terms of European Union legislation, a derogation can also imply that a member state delays the implementation of an element of an EU Regulation (etc.) into their legal system over a given timescale, such as five years; or that a member state has opted not to enforce a specific provision in a treaty due to internal circumstances (typically a state of emergency).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3076788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3076788", "title": "Diepreye Alamieyeseigha", "text": "Diepreye Alamieyeseigha\n\nDiepreye Solomon Peter Alamieyeseigha (\"DSP\") (16 November 1952 – 10 October 2015) was a Nigerian politician who was Governor of Bayelsa State in Nigeria from 29 May 1999 to 9 December 2005.\n\nDiepreye Alamieyeseigha was born on 16 November 1952 in Amassoma, Ogboin North Local Government Area, Bayelsa State. He attended the Bishop Dimeari Grammar School, Yenagoa. He joined the Nigerian Defence Academy as a Cadet Officer in 1974, then joined the Nigerian Air Force, where he served in the department of Logistics and Supply. He held various air force positions in Enugu, Makurdi, Kaduna and Ikeja. Alamieyeseigha retired from the air force in 1992 as a Squadron Leader.\n\nAfter leaving the air force he became the Sole Administrator of Pabod Supplies Port Harcourt. Later he became Head of Budget, Planning, Research and Development of the National Fertiliser Company (NAFCON).\n\nDiepreye Alamieyeseigha was elected as Governor of Bayelsa State in May 1999 as a member of the ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP). He was re-elected in 2003. \nVice President Atiku Abubakar attended the March 2003 event that kicked of his campaign for reelection in 2003.\n\nDiepreye Alamieyeseigha was detained in London on charges of money laundering in September 2005.\nAt the time of his arrest, Metropolitan police found about £1m in cash in his London home.\nLater they found a total of £1.8m ($3.2m) in cash and bank accounts. \nHe was found to own four homes in London worth an alleged £10 million. \nHis state's monthly federal allocation for the last six years has been in the order of £32 million.\nHe jumped bail in December 2005 from the United Kingdom by allegedly disguising himself as a woman, though Alamieyeseigha denies this claim.\n\nAlamieyeseigha was impeached on allegations of corruption on 9 December 2005.\n\nOn July 26, 2007, Alamieyeseigha pleaded guilty before a Nigerian court to six charges and was sentenced to two years in prison on each charge; however, because the sentences were set to run concurrently and the time was counted from the point of his arrest nearly two years before the sentences, his actual sentence was relatively short. Many of his assets were ordered to be forfeited to the Bayelsa state government. According to Alamieyeseigha, he only pleaded guilty due to his age and would have fought the charges had he been younger. On July 27, just hours after being taken to prison, he was released due to time already served.\n\nIn April 2009, Alamieyeseigha pledged a donation of 3,000,000 naira to the Akassa Development Foundation.\n\nIn December 2009, the federal government hired a British law firm to help dispose of four expensive properties acquired by Alamieyeseigha in London. Alamieyeseigha had bought one of these properties for £1,750,000.00 in July 2003, paying in cash. Diepreye Solomon Peter Alamieyeseigha used it as his London residence, and as the registered office of \nSolomon and Peters Inc.\n\nOn June 28, 2012, the United States (US) Department of Justice (DoJ) announced that it had executed an asset forfeiture order on $401,931 in a Massachusetts brokerage fund, traceable to Alamieyeseigha. US prosecutors filed court papers in April 2011 targeting the Massachusetts brokerage fund and a $600,000 home in Rockville, Maryland, which they alleged were the proceeds of corruption. A motion for default judgement and civil forfeiture was granted by a Massachusetts federal district judge in early June 2012. The forfeiture order was the first to be made under the DoJ’s fledgling Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Initiative.\n\nOn 12 March 2013, Alamieyeseigha was pardoned by President Goodluck Jonathan, but his pardoning was criticised by many.\n\nAlamieyeseigha was reported to have died of cardiac arrest at the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital on 10 October 2015. However, in a later interview, Bayelsa State Information Commissioner, Esueme Kikile revealed that the former Governor \"died of complications arising from high blood pressure and diabetes which affected his kidney.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7994603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7994603", "title": "Dongzhou protests", "text": "Dongzhou protests\n\nThe Dongzhou protests refers to a series of protests that took place for seven months until December 2005 in Dongzhou (东洲), a village in Shanwei prefecture, Guangdong Province, China. The protests were organized in opposition to government plans to partially infill the bay and build a new power plant. It resulted in the shooting deaths of several villagers in the night of 6 December 2005 by People's Armed Police. The death toll is unknown, with different sources mentioning anywhere from three to several dozen deaths. The protests resumed in November 2006.\n\nThe protests were held because local farmers were dissatisfied with the lack of compensation for land expropriated for the construction of the plant. They are also reportedly concerned with the potential for harmful pollution affecting their crops, while fishermen felt their livelihood would be adversely affected by the modifications to the bay.\n\nAccording to \"Xinhua\", the Information Office of the government of Shanwei described the incident as \"serious violation of law\", in which Huang Xijun, Lin Hanru and Huang Xirang led protesters in attacking police with knives, petrol bombs, and other explosive devices. Xinhua reported that the police fired warning shots but, in the confusion after nightfall, people were hit by mistake.\n\nLocal villagers denied these accounts, reported that the protesters may have used ordinary fireworks as part of their protest. Villagers also alleged that the authorities had \"enlisted thugs from local organized crime groups to help put down the demonstration\" in addition to regular security forces.\n\nThe village was sealed off by government forces who are searching for suspects involved in the violence and preventing people from leaving the village.\n\nThe official New China News Agency stated that three people had been killed and eight others injured, but there are other reports that quoted villagers saying as many as 20 people had been killed.\n\nThere are reports that local authorities are refusing to return bodies to families, in some cases offering money to villagers instead so that they would stop asking for the bodies. It is also reported that on 9 December, many villagers held incense sticks and knelt in front of police barricades in the village, asking for the bodies of their loved ones for proper burial. They have so far been refused. The \"South China Morning Post\" quoted some residents who said that the officials were attempting to hide the death toll. \n\nOn 11 December 2005, the Chinese government announced that a police commander was detained for mishandling the protest and causing deaths and injuries. \"Ta Kung Pao\" reported on 13 December that, according to the Shanwei TV Station via Agence France Presse, Wu Sheng, the vice director of the Shanwei Police Department, was placed in criminal detention by procurator bureau for mishandling the event. According to local television via \"The Washington Post\", nine residents were also arrested.\n\nSo far, the news has been followed closely by Hong Kong, Taiwan, dissident Chinese, and overseas media, but has received lesser coverage in mainland China media.\n\nIn June 2006, \"The New York Times\" reported that 19 villagers had been prosecuted for the unrest, 7 being given long sentences for disturbing public order and using explosives against the Police. This was taken to be evidence of the Chinese government covering up the true nature of the shootings. The trial was not widely reported on and locals said that they were constantly being pressured not to talk about what happened in 2005. Construction work resumed on the plant after the protests ended, with no compensation being handed out. No public investigation of the shootings has been carried out either.\n\nIn November 2006, the BBC reported that tension was again mounting in Dongzhou. The report stated that residents had taken eight local officials hostage after a villager was detained. Two days later, Radio Free Asia reported that the officials had been released following a dawn raid by police, but more villagers had been detained. Shortly after, a similar event took place at another village in Guangdong, where villagers attempted to detain officials in a dispute over compensation for loss of farm land. Clearly the events in Dongzhou are not an isolated case but part of an ongoing wave of protests against land grabs in China, which Prime Minister Wen Jiabao has acknowledged is an \"historic error\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24580842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24580842", "title": "Galil Jewish–Arab School", "text": "Galil Jewish–Arab School\n\nGalil Jewish–Arab School is the first joint Arab-Jewish primary school in Israel, founded in 1998. It is located on land owned by kibbutz Eshbal, in the Misgav district of the Galilee, near the Arab town of Sakhnin.\n\nThe Galil Jewish-Arab school was established in 1998 by the , which also runs other bilingual schools in Israel.\nIn 2007, the school had a student body of 200 Jewish and Arab students (Jews, Muslims and Christians) in Grades 1-9. The students live in Sakhnin, Sha’ab, and communities of the Misgav Regional Council, whose populations have expressed support for bilingual, multicultural education.\n\nAs in all Hand in Hand schools, Galil School strives to maintain an equal number of Arab and Jewish students; each class has two teachers, one Arab and one Jewish, the school has two co-principals, Arab and Jewish (currently Tagreed Hatib and Orna Eylat).\n\nHand in Hand's approach to bilingual education aims to create equality, understanding, and coexistence between the Arab and Jewish populations of Israel, who often live segregated from one another. Classes at Hand in Hand schools are co-taught by an Arab and Jewish teacher, each teaching in his or her native language. Teachers do not translate, providing a strong incentive for students to attain fluency in the second language.\n\nThe school exposes the students to all three cultures and demonstrates the principles of democracy and social equality in a straightforward and practical way.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37258224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37258224", "title": "Gujarat Parivartan Party", "text": "Gujarat Parivartan Party\n\nGujarat Parivartan Party was a political party from Gujarat, India. It was founded by Keshubhai Patel in August 2012. It performed poorly in 2012 assembly elections. Later it was merged with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in February 2014.\n\nGPP was founded by former Chief Minister of Gujarat Keshubhai Patel on 6 August 2012. Gordhan Zadafia led Mahagujarat Janata Party dissolved itself in the Gujarat Parivartan Party.\n\nGujarat Parivartan Party performed poorly and won two seats in Gujarat legislative assembly election, 2012.\n\nGPP MLA Keshubhai Patel resigned in February following his ill health in early February 2014.\n\nPresident of GPP Gordhan Zadafia announced merger of GPP with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on 24 February 2014. Senior leader of GPP and former chief minister Suresh Mehta opposed the decision. Nalin Kotadiya who represented Dhari in the Gujarat Legislative Assembly joined BJP along with party.\n\n"}
{"id": "6736854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6736854", "title": "Gypsy International Recognition and Compensation Action", "text": "Gypsy International Recognition and Compensation Action\n\nThe Gypsy International Recognition and Compensation Action is a human rights organization seeking justice on behalf of the Romani people (Gypsies) for the crimes of the Porajmos.\n\nIn 2002, it filed suit against IBM for IBM's involvement with Nazi war crimes.\nThe suit was filed after author Edwin Black provided documentation in his book \"IBM and the Holocaust\" that IBM machines were tailored for the Nazis to track their victims, including Gypsies.\n\nIn 2006, the Swiss Supreme Court judges dismissed the lawsuit because too much time had elapsed. An earlier Swiss court said the charges against IBM were likely to be sustained.\n\n"}
{"id": "26242012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26242012", "title": "Human rights in Madagascar", "text": "Human rights in Madagascar\n\nHuman rights in Madagascar are protected under the country's constitution. However the extent to which such rights are reflected in practice, is subject to debate. The 2009 Human Rights Report by the United States Department of State noted concerns regarding the suspension of democratic electoral processes as the result of recent political unrest. Furthermore, reports of corruption, arbitrary arrest and child labor highlight the prevalence of human rights issues in the country.\n\nAdopted in 1992, the Constitution of Madagascar addresses the notion of universal suffrage, individual rights and the freedom of speech.\n\nLaws regarding a minimum age for employment as well as the prohibition of child labor were passed.\n\nMadagascar's stances on international human rights treaties are as follows:\n\nAccusations of media censorship have risen due to the alleged restrictions on the coverage of government opposition. During the leadership conflict, Ravalomanana ordered the closure of \"Viva TV\", which was owned by his opponent, Rajoelina.\n\nWomen's suffrage was officially recognized in 1959. However violence against women and human trafficking continues to be an issue in society.\n\nThe existence of key legal principles such as the rule of law and due process, is in question due to the increase in arbitrary and politically motivated arrests in the after\nIn December 2014, the \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\" indicated that children in Madagascar engaged in 3 activities namely vanilla production, stone quarrying, and sapphire mining.\n\nThe people of Madagascar are inherently oppressed by extreme levels and rates of poverty. As of 2005, the Eastern coast of the country had astoundingly high poverty rates of around 80% while urban areas are just over 50%. Over 80% of the population lived on under $1.25 per day and over 90% of the population on under $2.00 per day as of 2010. The country has seen major improvements in literacy rates. Generally, a correlation exists between literacy rates and poverty. Should the progress in increasing the number of literate Madagascans continue, poverty rates should begin to decline respectively. \n\nThe following chart shows Madagascar's ratings since 1972 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. A rating of 1 is \"free\"; 7, \"not free\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38008251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38008251", "title": "Industrial antiterrorism", "text": "Industrial antiterrorism\n\nIndustrial antiterrorism is a term coined in 2012 by the union of military and engineering standards.\n\nIndustrial terrorism is terrorism whose sole purpose is to strike at the heart of the business and critical infrastructure of a nation. It aims to create the greatest amount of economic damage possible, thus causing a strong impact on national and public opinion internationally. Such activity raises the need to create industry standards to provide some protection against terrorist attacks.\n\nWhen more infrastructure and companies are protected by antiterrorism standards, it becomes more expensive, and more time is necessary, to plan an attack on that entity. In this way, intelligence agencies and companies can put off an attack and buy time to identify the involved terrorist groups. Following the Madrid and London terror attacks, certain companies and service providers in Europe are now required by law to formulate industrial antiterrorism protocols.\n\nThe main areas subject to the adoption of anti-terrorism standards are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24239278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24239278", "title": "Intelligence Squared", "text": "Intelligence Squared\n\nIntelligence Squared is a media company that stages live debates and other cultural events around the world. It was founded in 2002 in London where its head office is based, and it now also operates in the US, Australia and Hong Kong. The debates are held in the traditional Oxford style, with as many as 2,500 people attending some events. It produces video and podcast versions of them on a regular basis on YouTube and other platforms.\n\nIntelligence Squared was founded by two media entrepreneurs, Jeremy O'Grady and John Gordon, in 2002. In 2012, the company was bought by art consultant Amelie von Wedel, CEO of Serpentine Galleries Yana Peel, and Commonwealth Bank of Australia Executive General Manager David Legg. Hannah Kaye has been executive producer since 2006 and Matt McAllester became managing director in 2018.\n\nAs well as debates, Intelligence Squared also hosts talks and interviews with such figures as President Jimmy Carter, Eric Schmidt, Sheryl Sandberg, Malala Yousafzai, Patti Smith and Werner Herzog. It also stages discussions and panels. \n\nIn 2006, Intelligence Squared US was established by the philanthropist and CEO of Delphi Financial Group Robert Rosenkranz through his foundation. It has hosted hundreds of debates across the US. Other Intelligence Squared licensees operate in Sydney (since 2008) and Hong Kong (since 2009). The company has also had partnerships in Kiev (2008 – 2014), Athens (2010), Israel (2013) and Chile (2014).\n\nIntelligence Squared uses the traditional Oxford-style debating format. A motion is proposed, with two speakers arguing in favour and two against. Opening speeches are around 10 minutes in length. This is followed by Q and A from the floor and a lively dialogue between the speakers and short closing remarks. The audience is polled on their opinion both before and after the debate in order to see which side has changed the most audience members' minds.\n\nThemes covered by the debates include \"Foreign Policy\", \"History & Social Policy\", \"Politics & Economics\", \"Science & Technology\", \"Art & Culture\", and \"Environment\".\n\nAnother strand is the \"Cultural Combat\" debates, in which two cultural figures are pitted against each other. These began in 2013 with \"Verdi vs. Wagner\", which was staged at London’s Royal Opera House with a sixty-piece live orchestra, Stephen Fry in the chair, and John Tomlinson singing Wotan.\n\nAll Intelligence Squared events are recorded and released on the company’s YouTube channel, and as part of a weekly podcast series which has nearly half a million monthly listeners. The company also records standalone podcasts with authors and other intellectuals.\n\nIntelligence Squared debates have also been broadcast globally on BBC World.\n\nIn September 2006, Intelligence Squared U.S., was launched by Robert Rosenkranz, an initiative of The Rosenkranz Foundation, a non-profit organization. IQ2US debates have aired on the Bloomberg Television network. From 2006 to 2012, IQ2US was distributed by NPR, and it is currently self-distributed through the Public Radio Exchange. John Donvan of ABC News regularly moderates the debates.\n\nIntelligence Squared has partnered with numerous organisations and companies. In 2012 the company produced the Versus debates with Google. The first debate, titled \"It's Time to End the War on Drugs\", was held on 13 March 2012. The second Versus event was \"Hip-hop On Trial\". Intelligence Squared has also staged events in partnership with Shell on topics related to climate change and sustainable energy use. Other partnerships include The National Trust, Wellington College, Abbey Road Studios, Baker McKenzie in New York City, Investec, Christie's, the World Health Organization in New York, the United Nations in Geneva, and the University of Chicago.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1140170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1140170", "title": "John Garang", "text": "John Garang\n\nJohn Garang de Mabior (June 23, 1945 – July 30, 2005) was a Sudanese politician and revolutionary leader. From 1983 to 2005, he led the Sudan People's Liberation Army during the Second Sudanese Civil War, and following a peace agreement he briefly served as First Vice President of Sudan from July 9, 2005 until his death in a helicopter crash on July 30, 2005. A developmental economist by profession, Dr. Garang was a major influence on the movement that led to the foundation of South Sudan.\n\nA member of the Dinka ethnic group, Garang was born into a poor family in Wangulei village Twic East County in the upper Nile region of Sudan. An orphan by the age of ten, he had his fees for school paid by a relative, going to schools in Wau and then Rumbek. In 1962 he joined the first Sudanese civil war, but because he was so young, the leaders encouraged him and others his age to seek an education. Because of the ongoing fighting, Garang was forced to complete his secondary education in Tanzania. After winning a scholarship, he went on to earn a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics in 1969 from Grinnell College in Iowa, United States.\n\nHe was offered another scholarship to pursue graduate studies at the University of California, Berkeley, but chose to return to Tanzania and study East African agricultural economics as a Thomas J. Watson Fellow at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM). At UDSM, he was a member of the University Students' African Revolutionary Front. However, Garang soon decided to return to Sudan and join the rebels.. There is much erroneous reporting that Garang met and befriended Yoweri Museveni, future president of Uganda, at this time; while both Garang and Museveni were students at UDSM in the 1960s, they did not attend at the same time. In 1970, Garang was among one of the batches of Gordon Muortat Mayen's soldiers, the then leader of the Anyanya liberation movement, sent to Israel for military training.\n\nThe civil war ended with the Addis Ababa Agreement of 1972 and Garang, like many rebels, was absorbed into the Sudanese military. For eleven years, he was a career soldier and rose from the rank of captain to colonel after taking the Infantry Officers Advanced Course at Fort Benning, Georgia, United States. During this period he took four years academic leave and received a Master's degree in agricultural economics from Iowa State University (ISU). In 1981, he earned a PhD in Economics from Iowa State University (ISU). By 1983, Col. Garang was serving as a senior instructor in the military academy in Wadi Sayedna 21 km from the centre of Omdurman where he instructed the cadets for more than four years. Later he was nominated to serve in the military research department at Army HQ in Khartoum.\n\nDr. Garang coined the philosophy of ‘Sudanism’ which would be the guiding philosophy to a secular and multiethnic New Sudan. He believed, for the people of Sudan to live in cohesion, they must not separate themselves into the many existing ethnic factions present within the nation but, rather, to collectively renounce the belief that Arabness, Black African-ness, Islam or Christianity were to be the ultimate defining characteristics of Sudan. Rather, he willed that citizens should embrace all cultures of Sudan, and to unify under the one commonality they all share, being Sudanese.\n\nIn 1983, Garang went to Bor, ostensibly to pacify 500 southern government soldiers in Battalion 105 who were resisting being rotated to posts in the north. However, Garang was already part of a conspiracy among some officers in the Southern Command arranging for the defection of Battalion 105 to the anti-government rebels. When the government attacked Bor in May and the battalion pulled out, Garang rode by an alternate route to join them in the rebel stronghold in Ethiopia. By the end of July, Garang had brought over 3000 rebel soldiers under his control through the newly created Sudan People's Liberation Army/Movement (SPLA/M), which was opposed to military rule and Islamic dominance of the country, and encouraged other army garrisons to mutiny against the Islamic law imposed on the country by the government. This action marked the commonly agreed upon the beginning of the Second Sudanese Civil War, which resulted in one and a half million deaths over twenty years of conflict. Although Garang was Christian and most of southern Sudan is non-Muslim (mostly animist), he did not initially focus on the religious aspects of the war.\nGarang had been fighting for a \"New Sudan\" since 1983. He was a strong advocate for national unity: minorities together formed a majority and therefore should rule. Together, Garang believed, they could replace President Omar al-Bashir with a government made up of representatives from “all tribes and religions in Sudan.\" His first real effort for the cause, under his command, occurred in July 1985 with the SPLA’s incursion into Kordofan.\n\nThe SPLA gained the backing of Libya, Uganda, and Ethiopia. Garang and his army controlled a large part of the southern regions of the country, named \"New Sudan\". He claimed his troops' courage came from \"the conviction that we are fighting a just cause. That is something North Sudan and its people don't have.\" Critics suggested financial motivations to his rebellion, noting that much of Sudan's oil wealth lies in the south of the country.\n\nIn the spring of 1991, Mengistu Haile Mariam's regime (in Ethiopia) was overthrown by the Khartoum backed Ethiopian rebels (Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front). Upon the rebels’ seizure of the government, they closed all SPLA training camps in Ethiopia and cut off the SPLA's arms supply, forcing the SPLA to return hundreds of thousands of Sudanese back to South Sudan. This disrupted military operations and leadership within the SPLA. However, this caused the West to reconsider relations with the SPLA – justifying their providing the SPLA with \"non-lethal help.\"\n\nShortly after, there was an attempted coup to oust Garang by senior SPLA commanders, Riek Machar and Lam Akol, in August 1991. The splinter group led by Machar and Akol was named the SPLA-Nasir. The coup turned out to be premature – however, it did expose the deep ethnic divides within the SPLA. The Southern Sudanese communities became more divided than ever before in their history. These organic divides among the Southern Sudanese communities were exacerbated by the deliberate \"divide and rule\" policies instituted by the regimes in Khartoum, in order to maintain their power over the Southern Sudanese peoples.\nGarang refused to participate in the 1985 interim government or the 1986 elections, remaining a rebel leader. However, the SPLA and government signed a peace agreement on January 9, 2005, in Nairobi, in Kenya. On July 9, 2005, he was sworn in as the First-Vice-President - the second most powerful person in the country - following a ceremony in which he and President Omar al-Bashir signed a power-sharing constitution. Simultaneously, he became the premier in southern Sudan. This administration had limited autonomy for six years, at the end of which there would be a scheduled referendum regarding secession. No Christian or southerner had ever held such a high government post. Commenting after this ceremony, Garang stated, \"I congratulate the Sudanese people, this is not my peace or the peace of al-Bashir, it is the peace of the Sudanese people.\"\n\nIn the Hillcrest Hotel in Nairobi on New Year's Day 2003, there was a meeting between the SPLA and the Fur people. Garang asked two associates of Abdul Wahid al Nur (who later formed the Sudan Liberation Movement) to declare that the Fur people were with the SPLA – they refused.\n\nOver 15 months, starting in September 2003, Ali Osman and Garang met in private in Naivasha. Their secret meetings and negotiations lasted up until the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) was initialed on New Year's Eve 2004.\n\nThe CPA appeared to embody the vision of the \"New Sudan\" that Garang wanted. Within the CPA, power was split between the National Congress Party and the Sudan People's Liberation Movement for six years, until 2010, with Garang as the first vice-president.\n\nAs a leader, John Garang's democratic credentials were often questioned. For example, according to Gill Lusk, \"John Garang did not tolerate dissent and anyone who disagreed with him was either imprisoned or killed\". Under his leadership, the SPLA was accused of human rights abuses.\n\nThe ideological profile of SPLA was as shadowy as Garang himself.\nHe varied from Marxism to drawing support from Christian fundamentalists in the US.\n\nThe United States State Department argued that Garang's presence in the government would have helped solve the Darfur conflict in western Sudan, but others consider these claims \"excessively optimistic\". U.S. President George W. Bush, who supported South Sudanese independence, especially considered Garang to be a promising leader and called him a \"partner in peace.\" Bush highlighted Garang's Christian faith, and even connected him to support at evangelical churches in his hometown of Midland, Texas.\n\nIn late July 2005, Garang died after the Ugandan presidential Mi-172 helicopter he was flying in crashed. He had been returning from a meeting in Rwakitura with long-time ally President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda. He did not tell the Sudanese government that he was going to this meeting and therefore did not take the presidential plane. In fact, Garang had said he was going to spend the weekend in New Cush, a small village near the Kenyan borders founded by Garang himself. To this day neither the identity of any other participants at the meeting nor its purpose, are known. \n\nAfter the helicopter had been missing for more than 24 hours, the Ugandan president notified the Sudanese government, which in turn contacted the SPLM for information. The SPLM responded that the helicopter Garang was taking had landed safely on an old SPLA training camp. The Sudanese state television duly reported this. A few hours later, Abdel Basset Sabdarat, Sudan's Information Minister, then appeared on TV to refute the earlier report that Garang's helicopter landed safely. It was, in fact, Yasir Arman, the SPLA/M spokesperson, who had told the government that Garang's plane had landed safely and his intention, in doing so, was to buy time for internal succession arrangements within the SPLA, before Garang's death was to be declared. Garang's plane crashed on Friday and he remained 'missing' throughout Saturday. During this time, the government believed he was still resolving his affairs in Southern Sudan. Finally, a statement released by the office of the Sudanese President, Omar el-Bashir, confirmed that the Ugandan presidential helicopter had crashed into \"\"a mountain range in southern Sudan because of poor visibility and this resulted in the death of Dr. John Garang DeMabior, six of his colleagues and seven Ugandan crew members\".\"\nAccording to the Sudan Tribune John Garang's legacy was a major cornerstone in Sudan's fight for independence. Without Garang, many marginalized people of Africa, including that of Sudan would still be largely forgotten about in the modern world. \nHis body was flown to New Cush, a southern Sudanese settlement near the scene of the crash, where former rebel fighters and civilian supporters gathered to pay their respects to Garang. Garang's funeral took place on August 3 in Juba. His widow, Rebecca Nyandeng De Mabior, promised to continue his work stating: \"In our culture we say \"if you kill the lion, you see what the lioness will do\".\"\n\nBoth the Sudanese government and the head of the SPLA blamed the weather for the accident. There are, however, doubts as to whether this was the true cause, especially among the rank and file of the SPLA. Yoweri Museveni, the Ugandan President, stated that the possibility of \"external factors\" having played a role could not be eliminated.\n\nThe SPLM/SPLA Rumbek crisis, which took place in Rumbek from November 29 to December 1, 2004; one month before the signing of the CPA is also believed to have been a factor relevant to Dr. John Garang's death.\n\nWhile the Sudanese people followed the Naivasha peace talks closely, with high hopes of freedom and democratic transformation, the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement (SPLM) was rife with rumors and accusations of conspiracy relating to the removal of SPLM deputy Chairman, Salva Kiir Mayardit, and his replacement with the young Nhial Deng Nhial. Nhial Deng Nhial was the son of the famous leader of the southern Sudanese, William Deng Nhial, who had been assassinated by the Sudanese army in 1968. William Deng Nhial had led the Sudan African National Union (SANU) in exile, but had returned to Sudan to take part in the 1968 elections, shortly before he was killed.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19315933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19315933", "title": "Law of Gibraltar", "text": "Law of Gibraltar\n\nThe law of Gibraltar is a combination of common law \nand statute, and is based heavily upon English law.\n\nThe \"English Law (Application) Act\" of 1962 stipulates that English common law will apply to Gibraltar unless overridden by Gibraltar law. However, as Gibraltar is a self-governing British overseas territory, it maintains its own independent tax status and its parliament can enact laws independently of the United Kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11790728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11790728", "title": "Liechtenstein passport", "text": "Liechtenstein passport\n\nLiechtenstein passports are issued to nationals of Liechtenstein for the purpose of international travel. The passport may also serve as proof of Liechtensteiner citizenship.\n\nLiechtenstein passports are blue with the coat of arms of Liechtenstein emblazoned in the centre. The words \"FÜRSTENTUM LIECHTENSTEIN\" are inscribed above the coat of arms, with \"REISEPASS\" and the international biometric passport symbol below.\n\nCitizens of Liechtenstein are allowed to reside in Switzerland. Additionally, as a member of the European Economic Area (EEA), citizens of Liechtenstein are permitted to take up residence in any EEA member state.\n\nCitizens of EEA member states, which consist of the European Union and three of the four European Free Trade Association states (Iceland, Liechtenstein, and Norway) enjoy the freedom to travel and work in any EEA country without a visa, although transitory dispositions may restrict the rights of citizens of new member states to work in other countries. These same rights apply to Switzerland through a series of bilateral agreements.\n\nAs of October 2018, Liechtenstein citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 178 countries and territories, ranking the Liechtenstein passport 12th in the world according to the Visa Restrictions Index.\n\nIn 2017, The Liechtenstein nationality is ranked fourteenth in Nationality Index (QNI). This index differs from the Visa Restrictions Index, which focuses on external factors including travel freedom. The QNI considers, in addition, to travel freedom on internal factors such as peace & stability, economic strength, and human development as well. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1403915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1403915", "title": "List of Prime Ministers of Canada by religious affiliation", "text": "List of Prime Ministers of Canada by religious affiliation\n\nThis is a list of Prime Ministers of Canada by religious affiliation. It notes party affiliation after the name. All Canadian Prime Ministers have affiliations with Christianity.\n\nIn early Canadian history, religion played an important role in politics. The Conservative Party was composed mainly of Anglicans and conservative French-Canadian Catholics while the Liberal Party was backed by reform-minded French Canadian Catholics and non-Anglican English Canadians due to their support in Quebec and Ontario. In recent years, religion has played a background role in Canadian politics. Modern Prime Ministers have been reticent about discussing their faith.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46814971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46814971", "title": "List of attacks attributed to the LTTE, 1980s", "text": "List of attacks attributed to the LTTE, 1980s\n\nThe following is a list of chronological attacks attributed to the LTTE in 1980s during the Sri Lankan Civil War. The deadliest attack for the decade was the Anuradhapura massacre in 1985.\n\n1984 marked the intensification of the war between the Tamil separatists and the Sri Lankan government, as well as the first reports of civilian massacres by the LTTE.\n\n1985 marked a major escalation of hostilities. For the first time the LTTE attacked a major Sinhalese majority town killing 146 unarmed civilians. The impact of this attack was felt across the island and received worldwide attention.\n\n"}
{"id": "13705924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13705924", "title": "Louise Burfitt-Dons", "text": "Louise Burfitt-Dons\n\nLouise Burfitt-Dons, (née Byres; born 22 October 1953) is a British writer, humanitarian, and former Conservative candidate.\n\nBurfitt-Dons is best known for her anti-bullying work as the founder of the charity Act Against Bullying and co-founder of Kindness Day UK.\n\nLouise Olivian Byres was born to Olive and Ian Byres in a small desert hospital at Magwa, in the Burgan district just south of Kuwait City. Her father worked for Kuwait Oil Company and her mother ran a kindergarten. She had an elder brother, Laurence. She attended the Anglo-American School in Kuwait, and later The Hertfordshire and Essex High School and the Ashford School for Girls in Kent. Burfitt-Dons' father died of cancer when she was 26. During his illness she obtained a liquor licence and took over the running of The White Horse in East Bergholt so she could care for him.\n\nBurfitt-Dons has two daughters, Brooke Burfitt and Arabella (b. 1992), by her pilot husband Donald Burfitt-Dons, a New Zealander whom she met and married in London in 1982 while he was on an overseas basing with Qantas. The couple lived in Australia between 1982–93 where Louise worked as an actress and wrote plays for the Sydney stage. She co-starred in a dinner theatre show with Andrew Harwood in 1988. She lives in Chiswick, London.\n\nLouise has appeared on Sky News, Good Morning America, Channel Four News, ITV News London, ITN, BBC Breakfast and Talk Radio Europe, BBC Surrey and BBC Sussex, BBC Oxford, LBC, PM_(BBC_Radio_4) talkRADIO The World Tonight. She has written on social affairs and political issues for a range of blogs including Conservative Home and Conservative Way Forward. She is a regular news reviewer on the Ian Collins (radio presenter) show Roundtable on LBC.\n\nIn 2012, after visiting a range of different businesses, she set up an online initiative named 'Boosting Britain' to encourage and promote new ideas and companies which were helping Britain. It covered infrastructure, defence industry, education as well as motivational factors. She has suggested more honorary titles for engineers would help to bolster their image and help with the skills shortage As of 2017, the website was unregistered and not connecting.\n\nSince setting up Act Against Bullying, Burfitt-Dons has been outspoken on the ill-effects of tribalism in society as a speaker and writer. She has advocated that tribalism is on the increase and has been taking effect in all forms of modern society leading to social unrest. Feeling the need to express what the public was confiding in her she designed a range of campaigns to promote human dignity and individuality in modern society.\n\nShe designed the \"Cool to Be Kind\" Campaign in 2000; two years later she founded the National Decency Campaign in 2002. and, in 2006, the \"Grade Not Degrade\" campaign. \"The Scotsman\" quoted her as suggesting \"Celebrity Big Brother\" was legitimising the growing trend of bullying behaviour in classrooms around the country. She spoke at the Conservative Women's Organisation Forum at the House of Commons on cyber bullying claiming that today \"children have to be as savvy as celebrities but without the pr support\". In response to the growing trend of internet abuse she designed the CyberKind Campaign, which was launched on Remembrance Day (11 November) 2009.\n\nBurfitt-Dons founded the UK Kindness Movement and co-founder of Kindness Day UK. She appeared on BBC Breakfast on the first Kindness Day UK on 13 November 2010 alongside Kathy Lette who claimed that English people were condescending and unfriendly. In 2007 she began campaigning on global warming and has said that \"climate change may be the ultimate issue that unites us all\". \n\nIn 2006 she was nominated as an Angel Hero for The My Hero Project. In May 2009 she was invited to become a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts in recognition of her work with children as well as to acknowledge her efforts as a campaigner and speaker on humanitarian and environmental issues. \n\nBurfitt-Dons co-founded the Global Warming Alliance which was set up in January 2006 to find solutions to the crisis. On 2 December 2008, she launched the Global Warming Hotspot channel on YouTube. She spearheaded the international Hot Women Campaign, which encouraged women to become more active in climate change issues and reduce carbon emissions and significantly raised awareness of the differences between male and female thinking on the issues. \"The Scotsman\" quoted Burfitt-Dons' claims that \"the relentless rise in CO2 emissions is incrementally raising planetary temperatures, increasing water vapour in the atmosphere with a commensurate rise in rainfall, and ever stronger wind patterns randomly occurring across the globe.\"\n\nBurfitt-Dons got involved with women's issues because of her charity work as a motivational speaker and mentor. In October 2009 she was part of the freshers feminist debate at Cambridge University with \"Cosmopolitan Magazine\" editor Louise Court and Edwina Currie. Burfitt-Dons set up the Royal Society of Arts' Women's Speakers' Network whose mission is to \"raise women's profile in society by greater involvement in public speaking\". She chaired the launch event at the Institution of Mechanical Engineers on 9 November 2010 in a public debate entitled \"The Great Female Debate: Do Women Speak Too much or too little?\" She believes that some feminist groups have hijacked and radicalised the equality movement and has catalysed a debate around feminism calling on more gender realism via her blog The Common Sense Feminist. Her work on feminism includes the book \"Moderating Feminism:The Past The Now and What Comes Next\" (2016).\n\nIn September 2014 she was selected to fight the 2015 General Election for the Conservative Party in Nottingham North. She clashed with the incumbent MP Graham Allen over his criticism of small businesses in Nottingham North She has challenged Nottingham City Council over its Workplace Parking Levy policy as `short term thinking' at its worse and suggested it was a political decision rather than an economic one. Nottingham was the first City Council to introduce a Workplace Parking Levy in the UK.\n\nIn 1999, she criticised the treatment of an incident involving her daughter, Brooke, and Princess Beatrice of York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29870412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29870412", "title": "Ministry of Culture (Albania)", "text": "Ministry of Culture (Albania)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture () is a department of the Albanian Government responsible for the implementation of government tourism, cultural affairs, youth and sports policy. The current minister is Mirela Kumbaro of the Rama II Cabinet.\n\nSince the establishment of the institution, the Ministry of Culture has been reorganized by joining other departments or merging with other ministries, thus making its name change several times. This list reflects the changes made in years in pluralist history since 1992 as an institution:\n\n\nArts and Culture\n\n\nMuseums\n\n\nAgencies, Institutions and Departments\n\n"}
{"id": "840063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=840063", "title": "Minority religion", "text": "Minority religion\n\nA minority religion is a religion held by a minority of the population of a country, state, or region. Minority religions may be subject to stigma or discrimination. An example of a stigma is using the term cult with its extremely negative connotations for certain new religious movements. People who belong to a minority religion may be subject to discrimination and prejudice, especially when the religious differences correlate with ethnic differences.\n\nLaws are made in some countries to protect the rights of religious minorities, such as protecting the minorities' culture and to promote harmony with the majority.\n\n"}
{"id": "44928429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44928429", "title": "Movement of Democratic Socialists", "text": "Movement of Democratic Socialists\n\nThe Movement of Democratic Socialists (, \"Kinima Dimokraton Sosialiston\") is a political party in Greece established on 3 January 2015 by George Papandreou after splitting from the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK). The party officially uses To Kinima (Το Κίνημα, \"The Movement\") as the party's name abbreviation, although several media outlets and opinion pollsters have referred to it using the acronym KIDISO (ΚΙΔΗΣΟ).\n\nThe foundation of a new centre-left political party was announced on 2 January 2015 by George Papandreou, current President of the Socialist International, outgoing Member of the Hellenic Parliament and former Prime Minister of Greece, three weeks before the upcoming election to be held on 25 January. This confirmed Papandreou's split from the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK), which he had led until being replaced as leader by Evangelos Venizelos in March 2012. PASOK officials immediately denounced Papandreou's move as an \"unethical and irrational political act\"., accusing Papandreou of fracturing PASOK and being motivated by personal ambition.\n\nOn 3 January 2015, KIDISO was officially founded in the auditorium of the Benaki Museum in Athens. Five PASOK MPs were joined the new party, including Papandreou and former minister Filippos Sachinidis, who will serve as the party’s media representative alongside former deputy minister Giorgos Petalotis. Other well known PASOK politicians who joined KIDISO included former parliamentary speaker Filippos Petsalnikos and former minister Dimitris Reppas.\n\nA 16-page founding declaration, signed by 252 founding members criticised the economic policies of the European institutions, supported the adoption of Eurobonds, and called for a \"progressive, socialist, ecological Europe\".\n\nIn the January 2015 legislative election, KIDISO received 2.46% of the national vote, thus failing to cross the 3% threshold to receive seats in the Hellenic Parliament.\n\nOn 27 August 2015, PASOK officially ruled out a proposed electoral pact with KIDISO for the upcoming September 2015 snap election. On 2 September 2015, Papanderou stated that financial restrictions meant that KIDISO had ruled out contesting the election.\n\nOn 12 January 2017, Papanderou and PASOK leader Fofi Gennimata announced that KIDISO was merging with the Democratic Alignment.\n"}
{"id": "2307316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307316", "title": "National-anarchism", "text": "National-anarchism\n\nNational-anarchism is a radical, anti-capitalist, anti-Marxist, and anti-statist ideology. National-anarchists advocate a post-capitalist, stateless society in which communities of different ethnic or racial groups would be free to develop separately in their own autonomous tribal communes. These \"national autonomous zones\" would be directly democratic, mutualistic and self-sufficient.\n\nThe term \"national-anarchism\" dates back as far as the 1920s. The few scholars who have studied national-anarchism conclude that it represents a further evolution in the thinking of the radical right rather than an entirely new dimension. National-anarchism has elicited skepticism and outright hostility from both left- and right-wing critics. Some accuse national-anarchists of being white nationalists who promote ethnic and racial separatism, while others argue they want the militant chic of calling themselves \"anarchists\" without the historical and philosophical baggage that accompanies such a claim.\n\nThe National-Anarchist Movement was propounded since the late 1990s by Troy Southgate.\n\nThe term \"national-anarchist\" dates back as far as the 1920s, when Helmut Franke, a German conservative revolutionary writer, used it to describe his political stance. However, it would be the writings of other members of the conservative revolutionary movement, such as Ernst Jünger, which would later provide the philosophical foundation of the contemporary National-Anarchist Movement.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, Troy Southgate, a former member of the British far-right National Front and founder of the International Third Position, began to move away from Strasserism and Catholic distributism towards post-left anarchism and the primitivist green anarchism articulated in Richard Hunt's 1997 book \"To End Poverty: The Starvation of the Periphery by the Core\". However, he fused his anarchist ideology with the radical traditionalism of Italian esotericist Julius Evola and the ethnopluralism and pan-European nationalism of French new right philosopher Alain de Benoist to create a newer form of national-anarchism.\n\nIn 1998, inspired by the concepts of the political soldier and leaderless resistance, Southgate formed the National Revolutionary Faction (NRF) as a clandestine cell system of professional revolutionaries conspiring to overthrow the British state. The NRF stressed this was a \"highly militant strategy\" and advised that some members may only fund the organization. Southgate claims that the NRF took part in anti-vivisection protests in August 2000 alongside hunt saboteurs and the Animal Liberation Front by following a strategy of entryism, but its only known public action under the \"national-anarchist\" name was to hold an anarchist heretics fair in October 2000, in which a number of fringe groups participated. However, after a coalition of green anarchists and anti-fascists blocked three further events from being held in 2001, Southgate and the NRF abandoned this strategy and retreated to purely disseminating their ideas in Internet forums. The NRF had long been aware of the bridging power of the Internet, which provided it with a reach and influence hitherto not available to the groupuscular right. It thus became part of the Euro-American radical right, a virtual community of European and American right-wing extremists seeking to establish a new pan-national and ethnoreligious identity for all people they believe belong to the \"Aryan race\". Southgate disbanded the NRF in 2003.\n\nShortly after Southgate and other NRF associates became involved with \"Synthesis\", the online journal of a forum called the \"Cercle de la Rose Noire\", which seeks a fusion of anarchism, occultism and metapolitics with the contemporary concerns of the ecological and global justice movements. Thus, through the medium of musical subcultures (black metal and neofolk music scenes) and the creation of permanent autonomous zones for neo-\"völkisch\" communes, they hope to disseminate their subversive ideas throughout society in order to achieve cultural hegemony.\n\nThe national-anarchist idea has spread around the world over the Internet, assisted by groups such as the Thule-Seminar which set up web sites in the 1990s. In the United States, only a few web sites have been established but there has been a trend towards a steady increase. National-anarchism in the U.S. began as a relatively obscure movement, made up of probably fewer than 200 individuals, led by Andrew Yeoman of the Bay Area National Anarchists (BANA), based in the San Francisco Bay Area, and a couple of other groups in Northern California and Idaho. Organizations based on national-anarchist ideology have gained a foothold in Russia and have been accused of sowing turmoil in the environmental movement in Germany. There are adherents in England, Spain and Australia, among other nations.\n\nOn 8 September 2007 in Sydney, Australia, the anti-globalization movement mobilized against neoliberal economic policies by opposing the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit. During the street protests, national-anarchists infiltrated the left-anarchist black bloc but the police had to protect them from being expelled by irate activists. Since then, national-anarchists have joined other marches in Australia and in the U.S.; in April 2008, they protested on behalf of the Tibetan independence movement against the Chinese government during the Olympic torch relay in both Canberra, Australia, and San Francisco. National-anarchists in the U.S. are carefully studying the successes and failures of their more prominent international counterparts as they attempt to similarly win converts from the radical environmentalist and white nationalist movements in the U.S.\n\nOn May Day 2010, BANA participated in the Golden Gate Minutemen's march in front of San Francisco City Hall in support of Arizona's anti-illegal immigration senate bill. The march took place during International Workers' Day demonstrations as an attempt to counter mass protest against the bill, in San Francisco's Mission District. Local news media reported that Yeoman and four other national-anarchists were physically assaulted by about 10 protesters as they left the march.\n\nThe conservative revolutionary concept of the anarch, as articulated by Jünger, is central to national-anarchism. National-anarchists see modernity, liberalism, materialism, consumerism, immigration, multiracialism, multiculturalism, and globalization as the primary causes of the social decline of nations and cultural identity. They stress a strategic and ideological alliance of racial separatists in the Western world, neo-Eurasianists in Russia, Islamists in Muslim-majority countries, autonomist and secessionist movements in the least developed countries, and anti-Zionists everywhere to resist the \"New World Order\"—globalization viewed as an instrument of Jewish-dominated international banking and American imperialism—that is inevitably leading to global economic collapse and ecological collapse.\n\nNational-anarchism echoes most strains of anarchism by expressing a desire to reorganize human relationships, with an emphasis on replacing the hierarchical structures of the state and capitalism with local, community decision-making. National-anarchists, however, aim towards a decentralized social order where each new tribe builds and maintains a permanent autonomous zone for a self-sufficient commune, which is politically directly democratic, economically mutualistic, socially and culturally traditional, and ecologically sustainable.\n\nAsserting the right to difference, national-anarchists publicly advocate a model of society in which communities that wish to can practice racial, ethnic, religious or sexual separatism are able to peacefully coexist alongside mixed or integrated communities without requiring force. They claim that \"national autonomous zones\" (NAZs) could exist with their own rules for permanent residence without the strict ethnic divisions and violence advocated by other forms of \"blood and soil\" ethnic nationalism.\n\nMany national-anarchists are influenced by the perennial philosophy of Evola and the radical traditionalist school, which calls for a \"revolt against the modern world\". They therefore have a pessimistic vision of modern Western culture yet optimistically believe that the \"decline of the West\" will pave the way for its materialism to be expunged and replaced by the idealism of primordial tradition. Many national-anarchists reject Christianity because they believe it is a Semitic religion that usurped the Aryan legacy of Mithraic mysteries as the historically dominant religion and moral system of the West. Some embrace a spiritual anarchism based on different forms of neopaganism, occultism and ethnic mysticism, especially Nordic racial paganism, which they view as genuine expressions of Western spirituality, culture and identity that can also serve as an antidote to the socially alienating effects of consumer culture. Other national-anarchists hold racial segregation and cultural revitalization through the establishment of confederations of autonomous tribal communes (\"\"volk\" autonomy\") as the ultimate barrier against globalized racial and cultural homogenization.\n\nAccording to American panarchist Keith Preston, national-anarchism and classical American ideals of Jeffersonian democracy are reconcilable, despite the anti-Americanism of European national-anarchists and the patriotism of American paleoconservatives, because of their common values: regionalism, localism, agrarianism, and traditionalism.\n\nWhile the combination of post-left anarchist opposition to statism and capitalism, with right-wing support for ethnic and racial separatism, makes its classification on the left-right political spectrum problematic, the following scholars who have examined national-anarchism consider it to be on the radical right.\n\nIn 2003, Roger Griffin argued that national-anarchism is a segment of the groupuscular right which has evolved towards a \"mazeway resynthesis\" between \"classic fascism, third positionism, neo-anarchism and new types of anti-systemic politics born of the anti-globalization movement\", whose main ideological innovation is a stateless palingenetic ultranationalism.\n\nIn 2005, Graham D. Macklin, in his essay \"Co-opting the counter culture: Troy Southgate and the National Revolutionary Faction\", building off of the writings of Griffin, \nargued that the conservative revolutionary concept of the anarch provides sanction for the ideological shapeshifting and unrestrained eclecticism of national-anarchism, allowing its adherents to assert they have transcended the dichotomy of conventional politics to embrace higher political forms that are \"beyond left and right\". Macklin further argued that despite a protean capacity for change, far-right groupuscules retain some principes which he calls core fascist values (namely palingenesis, ultranationalism, anti-liberal and anti-Marxist third positionism, and violent direct action). Macklin therefore concludes that national-anarchism is a synthesis of anarchism and fascism (or, more precisely, the radical traditionalism of Evola), which represents a \"revolt against the modern world\".\n\nIn 2005, Alan Sykes, in his book \"The Radical Right in Britain: Social Imperialism to the BNP\", argued that national-anarchism represents a further evolution in the thinking of the radical right rather than an entirely new dimension, a response to the new situation of the late 20th century in which the apparent triumph of materialist capitalism on a global scale requires a greater assertion of the centrality of anti-materialist nationalism.\n\nNational-anarchism has critics on both the left and right of the political spectrum. Both left- and right-wing critics look upon their politics with skepticism, if not outright hostility, in part because they find it difficult to consolidate national-anarchism into the traditional right-left spectrum.\n\nLeft-wing critics assert that national-anarchism is a \"Trojan horse for white nationalism\" and represents what many anti-fascists see as the potential new face of fascism. They argue that it is a form of crypto-fascism which hopes to avoid the stigma of classic fascism by appropriating symbols, slogans, and stances of the left-wing anarchist movement, while engaging in entryism to inject some core fascist values into the anti-globalization and environmental movements. They further argue that national-anarchists hope to draw members away from traditional white nationalist groups to their own synthesis of ideas, which they claim are \"neither left nor right\". These critics warn that the danger national-anarchists represent is not in their marginal political strength, but in their potential to show an innovative way that neo-fascist groups can rebrand themselves and reset their project on a new footing. Even if the results are modest, this can disrupt left-wing social movements and their focus on egalitarianism and social justice; and instead spread separatist ideas based on naturalistic fallacy, racism, antisemitism, heterosexism, and antifeminism amongst grassroots activists.\n\nSome far-right critics argue that neo-Nazis joining the National-Anarchist Movement will lead to them losing credit for the successes of their \"anti-Zionist\" struggle if it is co-opted by left-wing anarchists. They further argue that national-anarchists want the militant chic of calling themselves \"anarchists\" without the historical and philosophical baggage that accompanies such a claim, such as the link with 19th-century Jewish anarchists.\n\n"}
{"id": "12456944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12456944", "title": "National Commission for Minorities", "text": "National Commission for Minorities\n\nConstitution of India doesn't define the word 'Minority' but has used the word minorities considering two attributes religion or language of a person. For minorities Constitution of India has envisaged a number of rights and safeguards. To provide enough equality and to dwindle the discrimination, makers have spelt out various things in Fundamental Rights (PartIII); Directive Principles of State policy (Part IV) and also the Fundamental Duties (Part IV-A). However, with rising right and rising wedge between right and left and also the ephemeral political aspirations of various political parties have diluted the discrimination safeguards.\n\nThe Union Government set up the National Commission for Minorities (NCM) under the National Commission for Minorities Act, 1992. Six religious communities, viz; Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Zoroastrians (Parsis) and Jains have been notified in Gazette of India as minority communities by the Union Government all over India . Original notification of 1993 was for Five religious communities Sikhs, Buddhists,Parsis,Christians and Muslims.\n\nThe NCM adheres to the United Nations Declaration of 18 December 1992 which states that \"States shall protect the existence of the National or Ethnic, Cultural, Religious and Linguistic identity of minorities within their respective territories and encourage conditions for the promotion of that identity.” \n\nThe Commission has the following functions:\n\n\nThe Commission has the following powers:\n\n\nThe act states that the Commission shall consist of:\n\nAlthough Indian Constitution does not define word Minority but it has provided constitutional safeguards and fundamental rights to minorities:\n\nIndian state is committed to administer these rights which can be enforced by judiciary\n\n\nOn March 9, 2005 the then Prime Minister issued a Notification for the constitution of a High Level\nCommittee to prepare a report on the social, economic and educational status of the Muslim community of India.\nRecommendations contained in the Report of the High Level Committee on Social, Economic and Educational Status of the Muslim Community of India headed by Justice Rajindar Sachar (Retd.):\nThe Committee suggested that policies should “sharply focus on inclusive development and ‘mainstreaming’ of the Community while respecting diversity.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2826064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2826064", "title": "Non-ministerial government department", "text": "Non-ministerial government department\n\nNon-ministerial government departments (NMGDs) are a type of British government department that deal with matters for which direct political oversight has been judged unnecessary or inappropriate. They are headed by senior civil servants. Some fulfil a regulatory or inspection function, and their status is therefore intended to protect them from political interference. Some are headed by a permanent office holder, such as a Permanent Secretary or Second Permanent Secretary.\n\nThe status of an NMGD varies considerably from one to another. For example:\n\nA list of NMGDs is maintained by the Cabinet Office, which currently states that the following 20 are in existence:\n\n"}
{"id": "13062594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13062594", "title": "Pileus (hat)", "text": "Pileus (hat)\n\nThe pileus ( – \"pilos\", also pilleus or pilleum in Latin) was a brimless, felt cap worn in Ancient Greece and surrounding regions, later also introduced in Ancient Rome. The Greek (\"pilidion\") and Latin \"pilleolus\" were smaller versions, similar to a skullcap.\n\nThe pilos (Greek: πῖλος, \"felt\") was a common conical travelling hat in Illyria and Ancient Greece. The pilos is the brimless version of the \"petasos\". It could be made of felt or leather. Pilos caps often identify the mythical twins, or Dioscuri, Castor and Pollux, as represented in sculptures, bas-reliefs and on ancient ceramics. Their caps were supposedly the remnants of the egg from which they hatched. The pilos appears on votive figurines of boys at the sanctuary of the Cabeiri at Thebes, the \"Cabeirion\".\n\nIn warfare, the pilos type helmet was often worn by the peltast light infantry, in conjunction with the exomis, but it was also worn by the heavy infantry.\n\nThe pilos helmet was made of bronze in the same shape as the pilos which was presumably sometimes worn under the helmet for comfort, giving rise to the helmet's conical shape. The first widespread adoption of the pilos helmet occurred in Sparta towards the end of the 5th century BC.\n\nIn Ancient Rome, a slave was freed in a ceremony in which a praetor touched the slave with a rod called a \"vindicta\" and pronounced him to be free. The slave's head was shaved and a pileus was placed upon it. Both the \"vindicta\" and the cap were considered symbols of Libertas, the goddess representing liberty. This was a form of extra-legal manumission (the \"manumissio minus justa\") considered less legally sound than manumission in a court of law.\n\nOne 19th century dictionary of classical antiquity states that, \"Among the Romans the cap of felt was the emblem of liberty. When a slave obtained his freedom he had his head shaved, and wore instead of his hair an undyed pileus.\" Hence the phrase \"servos ad pileum vocare\" is a summons to liberty, by which slaves were frequently called upon to take up arms with a promise of liberty (Liv. XXIV.32). The figure of Liberty on some of the coins of Antoninus Pius, struck A.D. 145, holds this cap in the right hand.\n\nJewish priests wore a \"pilos\" (conical cap), mentioned in Exodus .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17405797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17405797", "title": "Politiquera", "text": "Politiquera\n\nA politiquera in the United States is an individual who is paid for by an election campaign to knock on doors to issue fliers and encourage people to get out and vote in favour of the candidate. Candidates who generally lack the grass root volunteers who normally do this job, resort to politiqueras to achieve the goal. Use of politiqueras in southern regions of Texas during the democratic primary on March 4, 2008 by Hillary Clinton campaign is one such example.\n"}
{"id": "1817074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1817074", "title": "Post-war consensus", "text": "Post-war consensus\n\nThe post-war consensus is a historian's model of political co-operation in post-war British political history, from the end of World War II in 1945 to the late-1970s, and its repudiation by Conservative Party leader Margaret Thatcher. Majorities in both parties agreed upon it. The consensus tolerated or encouraged nationalisation, strong trade unions, heavy regulation, high taxes, and a generous welfare state.\n\nThe concept states that there was a widespread consensus that covered support for coherent package of policies that were developed in the 1930s and promised during the Second World War, focused on a mixed economy, Keynesianism, and a broad welfare state. In recent years, the timing of the interpretation has been debated by historians, asking whether it had weakened and collapsed before Thatcherism arrived in 1979. There has also been debate as to whether a \"postwar consensus\" ever really existed.\n\nThe historian's model of the post-war consensus was most fully developed by Paul Addison. The basic argument is that in the 1930s Liberal intellectuals led by John Maynard Keynes and William Beveridge developed a series of plans that became especially attractive as the wartime government promised a much better post-war Britain and saw the need to engage every sector of society. The coalition government during the war, headed by Churchill and Attlee, signed off on a series of white papers that promised Britain a much improved welfare state after the war. The promises included the national health service, and expansion of education, housing, and a number of welfare programmes. It included the nationalisation of weak industries. \n\nIn education, the major legislation was the Education Act of 1944, written by Conservative Rab Butler, a moderate, with his deputy, Labour's James Chuter Ede, a former teacher who would become Home Secretary throughout the Attlee administration. It expanded and modernised the educational system and became part of the consensus. The Labour Party did not challenge the system of elite public schools – they became part of the consensus. It also called for building many new universities to dramatically broaden educational base of society. Conservatives did not challenge the socialised medicine of the National Health Service; indeed, they boasted they could do a better job of running it. \n\nIn foreign policy, the consensus called for an anti-Communist Cold War policy, decolonisation, close ties to NATO and to the United States and the Commonwealth, and slowly emerging ties to the European Community. \n\nThe model states that from 1945 until the arrival of Margaret Thatcher in 1979, there was a broad multi-partisan national consensus on social and economic policy, especially regarding the welfare state, nationalised health services, educational reform, a mixed economy, government regulation, Keynesian macroeconomics, policies, and full employment. Apart from the question of nationalisation of some industries, these policies were broadly accepted by the three major parties, as well as by industry, the financial community and the labour movement. Until the 1980s, historians generally agreed on the existence and importance of the consensus. Some historians such as Ralph Miliband expressed disappointment that the consensus was a modest or even conservative package that blocked a fully socialised society. Historian Angus Calder complained bitterly that the post-war reforms were an inadequate reward for the wartime sacrifices, and a cynical betrayal of the people's hope for a more just post-war society. In recent years, there has been a historiographical debate on whether such a consensus ever existed.\n\nThe foundations of the post-war consensus can be traced to the reports of William Beveridge, a Liberal economist who in 1942 formulated the concept of a more comprehensive welfare state in Great Britain. The first general election since 1935 was held in Britain in May 1945, giving a landslide victory for the Labour Party, whose leader was Clement Attlee. The policies undertaken and implemented by this Labour government laid the base of the consensus. The Conservative Party accepted many of these changes and promised not to reverse them in its 1947 \"Industrial Charter\".\n\nThe post-war consensus included a belief in Keynesian economics, a mixed economy with the nationalisation of major industries, the establishment of the National Health Service and the creation of the modern welfare state in Britain. The policies were instituted by all governments (both Labour and Conservative) in the post-war period. The consensus has been held to characterise British politics until the economic crises of the 1970s which led to the end of the post-war economic boom and the rise of monetarist economics.\n\n\"The Future of Socialism\" by Anthony Crosland, published in 1956, was one of the most influential books in post-war British Labour Party thinking It was the seminal work of the 'revisionist' school of Labour politics.\nA central argument in the book is Crosland's distinction between 'means' and 'ends'. Crosland demonstrates the variety of socialist thought over time, and argues that a definition of socialism founded on nationalisation and public ownership is mistaken, since these are simply one possible means to an end. For Crosland, the defining goal of the left should be more social equality. Crosland argued that\n\nCrosland also argued that an attack on unjustified inequalities would give any left party a political project to make the definition of the end point of 'how much equality' a secondary and more academic question.\n\nCrosland also developed his argument about the nature of capitalism (developing the argument in his contribution 'The Transition from Capitalism' in the 1952 \"New Fabian Essays\" volume). Asking, \"is this still capitalism?\", Crosland argued that post-war capitalism had fundamentally changed, meaning that the Marxist claim that it was not possible to pursue equality in a capitalist economy was no longer true. Crosland wrote that,\n\nCrosland argued that these features of a reformed managerial capitalism were irreversible. Others within the Labour Party argued that Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan brought about its reversal.\n\nA third important argument was Crosland's liberal vision of the 'good society'. Here his target was the dominance in Labour and Fabian thinking of Sidney Webb and Beatrice Webb, and a rather grey, top down bureaucratic vision of the socialist project. Following Tawney, Crosland stressed that equality would not mean uniformity:\n\n\"Butskellism\" was a somewhat satirical term sometimes used in British politics to refer to this consensus, established in the 1950s and associated with the exercise of office as Chancellor of the Exchequer by Rab Butler of the Conservative Party and Hugh Gaitskell of the Labour Party. The term was inspired by a leading article in \"The Economist\" by Norman Macrae which dramatised the claimed convergence by referring to a fictitious \"Mr. Butskell\".\n\nHowever, the concept of consensus has also been challenged as a myth. Labour Historian Ben Pimlott says this idea is a \"mirage, an illusion which rapidly fades the closer one gets to it.\" Pimlott sees much disputation and little harmony. He notes the term \"Butskellism\" meant harmony of economic policy between the parties, but it was in practice a term of abuse, not celebration. In 2002, Scott Kelly claimed that there was in fact a sustained argument over the use of physical controls, monetary policy and direct taxation. Political scientists Dennis Kavanagh and Peter Morris defend the concept, arguing that clear, major continuities existed regarding policies toward the economy, full employment, trade unions, and welfare programs. There was agreement as well on the major issues of foreign policy. British historian David Kynaston considers the period of post-war consensus a unique and distinct period in the history of twentieth century Britain and has undertaken to map the development of British society between 1945–79 in his ongoing series of books titled \"Tales of a New Jerusalem\". So far, three volumes have been published, covering the years 1945–63.\n\nMarket-orientated conservatives gathered strength in the 1970s in the face of economic paralysis. They rediscovered Friedrich Hayek's the \"Road to Serfdom\" (1944) and brought in Milton Friedman, the leader of the Chicago school of economics. He preached Monetarism to discredit Keynesianism. Keith Joseph played a major role as an advisor to Thatcher.\n\nKeynesianism itself seemed no longer to be the magic bullet for economic crises of the 1970s. Mark Kesselman et al. argue:\n\nGlobal events such as the 1973 oil crisis put pressure on the post-war consensus; this pressure was intensified by domestic problems such as high inflation, the three-day week and industrial unrest (particularly in the declining coal-mining industry). In early 1976, expectations that inflation and the double deficit would get worse precipitated a Sterling crisis. By October, the pound had fallen by almost 25% against the dollar. At this point the Bank of England had exhausted its foreign reserves trying to prop up the currency, and as a result the Callaghan government felt forced to ask the International Monetary Fund for a £2.3 billion loan, then the largest that the IMF had ever made. In return the IMF demanded massive spending cuts and a tightening of the money supply. That marked a suspension of Keynesian economics in Britain. Callaghan reinforced this message in his speech to the Labour Party Conference at the height of the crisis, saying:\n\nThatcher reversed other elements of the post-war consensus, as when her Housing Act 1980 allowed the residents to buy their flats. Thatcher did keep key elements of the post-war consensus, such as nationalised health care. She promised Britons in 1982, the National Health Service is \"safe in our hands.\"\n\nEconomists Stephen Broadberry and Nicholas Crafts have argued that anticompetitive practices, enshrined in the post-war consensus, appear to have hindered the efficient working of the economy and, by implication, the reallocation of resources to their most profitable uses. David Higgins says the statistical data support Broadberry and Crafts.\n\nThe consensus was increasingly seen by those on the right as being the cause of Britain's relative economic decline. Believers in New Right political beliefs saw their ideology as the solution to Britain's economic dilemmas in the 1970s. When the Conservative Party won the 1979 general election in the wake of the 1978–79 Winter of discontent, they implemented New Right ideas and brought the post-war consensus to an end. A similar Thatcherite consensus would exist during John Major's premiership, with Neil Kinnock, John Smith and Tony Blair mostly accepting the policies advocated by the Conservatives at this time-this would continue until the 2008 Financial Crisis which convinced politicians to abandon New Right neo-liberal markets and deregulation in favour of Keynesian methodologies.\n\nOutside Britain, the term \"post-war consensus\" is used for an era of New Zealand political history, from the first New Zealand Labour Party government of the 1930s until the election of a fundamentally changed Labour party in 1984, following years of mostly New Zealand National Party rule. As in the UK, it was built around a 'historic compromise' between the different classes in society: the rights, health and security of employment for all workers would be guaranteed, in return for co-operation between unions and employers. The key ideological tenets of governments of the period were Keynesian economic policy, heavy interventionism, economic regulation and a very powerful welfare state.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26869583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26869583", "title": "President Truman's relief of General Douglas MacArthur", "text": "President Truman's relief of General Douglas MacArthur\n\nOn 11 April 1951, U.S. President Harry S. Truman relieved General of the Army Douglas MacArthur of his commands after MacArthur made public statements which contradicted the administration's policies. MacArthur was a popular hero of World War II who was then the commander of United Nations forces fighting in the Korean War, and his relief remains a controversial topic in the field of civil–military relations.\n\nMacArthur led the Allied forces in the Southwest Pacific during World War II, and after the war was in charge of the occupation of Japan. When North Korea invaded South Korea in June 1950, starting the Korean War, he was designated commander of the United Nations forces defending South Korea. He conceived and executed the amphibious assault at Inchon on 15 September 1950, for which he was hailed as a military genius. However, when he followed up his victory with a full-scale invasion of North Korea on Truman's orders, China intervened in the war and inflicted a series of defeats, compelling him to withdraw from North Korea. By April 1951, the military situation had stabilized, but MacArthur's public statements became increasingly irritating to Truman, and he relieved MacArthur of his commands. The Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee held a joint inquiry into the military situation and the circumstances surrounding MacArthur's relief, and concluded that \"the removal of General MacArthur was within the constitutional powers of the President but the circumstances were a shock to national pride.\"\n\nAn apolitical military was an American tradition, but one that was difficult to uphold in an era when American forces were employed overseas in large numbers. The principle of civilian control of the military was also ingrained, but the rising complexity of military technology led to the creation of a professional military. This made civilian control increasingly problematic when coupled with the constitutional division of powers between the President as commander-in-chief, and the Congress with its power to raise armies, maintain a navy, and wage wars. In relieving MacArthur for failing to \"respect the authority of the President\" by privately communicating with Congress, Truman upheld the President's role as pre-eminent.\n\nHarry S. Truman became President of the United States on the death of Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1945, and won an unexpected victory in the 1948 presidential election. He was the only president who served after 1897 without a college degree. Although not highly educated, Truman was well read. When his high school friends went off to the state university in 1901, he enrolled in a local business school, but only lasted a semester. He later took night courses at the Kansas City Law School, but dropped out. Truman attempted to gain admission to the United States Military Academy at West Point, but was rejected for his poor eyesight. He was proud of his military service in the artillery during World War I, and held a reserve commission as a colonel.\n\nTruman distrusted regular soldiers and selected two National Guardsmen, Harry H. Vaughan and Louis H. Renfrow, as his military aides. Truman once remarked that he did not understand how the US Army could \"produce men such as Robert E. Lee, John J. Pershing, Eisenhower and Bradley and at the same time produce Custers, Pattons and MacArthur.\"\n\nDuring the 1948 Revolt of the Admirals, a number of naval officers publicly disagreed with the administration's policy over cuts to naval aviation and amphibious warfare capability, resulting in the relief of the Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Louis Denfeld, and his replacement by Admiral Forrest Sherman. In testimony before the House Armed Services Committee investigation into the affair in October 1949, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Omar Bradley, doubted that there would ever be another large scale amphibious operation.\n\nIn stature and seniority, General of the Army Douglas MacArthur was the Army's foremost general. The son of Lieutenant General Arthur MacArthur, Jr., a recipient of the Medal of Honor for action during the American Civil War, he had graduated at the top of his West Point class of 1903, but never attended an advanced service school except for the engineer course in 1908. He had a distinguished combat record in World War I, and had served as Chief of Staff of the United States Army from 1930 to 1935, working closely with Presidents Herbert Hoover and Franklin Roosevelt, despite occasional clashes over the military budget. He would later compare Roosevelt's \"extraordinary self-control\" with Truman's \"violent temper and paroxysms of ungovernable rage\".\n\nApart from his World War I-era service in Mexico and Europe, his overseas postings had been in Asia and the Pacific. During World War II, he had become a national hero and had been awarded the Medal of Honor for the unsuccessful defense of the Philippines in the Battle of Bataan. He had commanded the Allied armies in the New Guinea Campaign and Philippines Campaign, fulfilling his famous promise to return to the Philippines. In 1944 and 1948, he had been considered a possible Republican candidate for president. After the war, as the Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers (SCAP), he had overseen the Occupation of Japan and played an important part in the post-war political and social transformation of that country.\n\nBy 1950, the occupation of Japan was winding down, but MacArthur remained in the country as Commander-in-Chief Far East (CINCFE), a post to which he had been appointed by Truman in 1945. MacArthur had to deal with deep cuts in the defense budget that saw his troop numbers decline from 300,000 in 1947 to 142,000 in 1948. Despite his protests, further reductions had followed and, by June 1950, there were only 108,000 troops in his Far East Command. Cuts in funds and personnel produced shortages of serviceable equipment. Of the Far East Command's 18,000 jeeps, 10,000 were unserviceable; of its 113,870 2½-ton 6x6 trucks, only 4,441 were serviceable. On the positive side, the Far East Command initiated a program of reclaiming and refurbishing war materiel from abandoned stocks throughout the Pacific. This had not only recovered a great deal of valuable stores and equipment, it had also generated a useful repair and rebuilding industry in Japan. Meanwhile, the shift away from occupation duties had permitted a greater focus on training for combat.\n\nNorth Korea invaded South Korea on 25 June 1950, starting the Korean War. In response to an urgent request from the Korean Military Advisory Group for more ammunition, MacArthur, on his own initiative, ordered the transport ship MSTS \"Sgt. George D Keathley\", then in harbor in Yokohama, to be loaded with ammunition and to sail for Pusan. President Truman met with the Joint Chiefs of Staff and other advisors that day at Blair House and approved the actions already taken by MacArthur and Secretary of State Dean Acheson. At another meeting at Blair House held on the evening of 26 June, amid reports of a rapidly deteriorating situation in South Korea, Truman approved the use of air and naval forces against military targets south of the 38th parallel north.\n\nSubsequently, on 27 June, the United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 83, which recommended that \"members of the United Nations furnish such assistance to the Republic of Korea as may be necessary to repel the armed attack and to restore international peace and security in the area.\" The South Korean capital of Seoul fell on 28 June. The next day, Truman authorized air and naval operations north of the 38th parallel, which MacArthur had already ordered. However it was not until 30 June, following a sobering report on the military situation from MacArthur, that Truman finally authorized the use of ground forces.\n\nOn 8 July, on the advice on the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Truman appointed MacArthur as commander of the United Nations Command in South Korea (CINCUNC). He remained CINCFE and SCAP. MacArthur was forced to commit his forces in Japan to what he later described as a \"desperate rearguard action.\" In July Truman sent the Chief of Staff of the Army, General J. Lawton Collins, and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, General Hoyt S. Vandenberg, to report on the situation. They met with MacArthur and his chief of staff, Major General Edward Almond, in Tokyo on 13 July. MacArthur impressed on them the danger of underestimating the North Koreans, whom he characterized as \"well-equipped, well-led, and battle-trained, and which have at times out-numbered our troops by as much as twenty to one.\" He proposed to first halt the North Korean advance and then counterattack, enveloping the North Koreans with an amphibious operation, but the timing was dependent on the arrival of reinforcements from the United States.\n\nBradley raised the possibility of using nuclear weapons in Korea at a Joint Chiefs of Staff meeting on 9 July 1950 at Eisenhower's instigation, but there was no support for the idea. The Army staff sent a cable to Collins in Tokyo suggesting that he seek out MacArthur's opinion. In a teleconference on 13 July, Major General Charles L. Bolte proposed sending nuclear weapons. MacArthur had already turned down Air Force proposals to fire bomb North Korean cities, and suggested that atomic bombs could be used to isolate North Korea by taking out bridges and tunnels. The Army staff considered this impractical. However, on 28 July, the Joint Chiefs decided to send ten nuclear-capable B-29 bombers of the 9th Bombardment Wing to Guam as a deterrent to Chinese action against Taiwan. Truman publicly denied that he was considering the use of nuclear weapons in Korea, but authorised the transfer to Guam of atomic bombs without their fissile cores. The deployment did not go well; one of the bombers crashed on takeoff from Fairfield-Suisun Air Force Base in California on 5 August, killing the mission commander, Brigadier General Robert F. Travis, and 18 others. The remaining nine bombers remained in Guam until 13 September, when they returned to the United States. The bomb assemblies stayed behind.\n\nAt a press conference on 13 July, Truman was asked if United States forces would cross the 38th parallel into North Korea, and he replied that he would \"make that decision when it becomes necessary to do it.\" Some of his advisors, most notably the Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs, Dean Rusk, and the Director of the Office of Northeast Asian Affairs, John M. Allison, argued that Security Council Resolution 83 provided a legal basis for the invasion of North Korea. Others, notably George F. Kennan and Paul Nitze, disagreed. In addition to the legality, the administration also had to consider the danger of intervention by the Soviet Union or the People's Republic of China if United Nations forces approached their borders.\n\nMacArthur's early ambitions for an amphibious operation against North Korea had to be shelved due to the deteriorating situation in the south, which compelled him to commit the formation earmarked for the assault, the 1st Cavalry Division, to the defence of the Pusan Perimeter, to which the Eighth Army retreated in August. MacArthur then resumed his planning for an amphibious operation, which he tentatively scheduled for 15 September 1950. Navy and Marine Corps officers like Rear Admiral James H. Doyle, the commander of Amphibious Group One, and Major General Oliver P. Smith, the commander of the 1st Marine Division, were appalled by the proposed landing beaches at Inchon, which featured huge tides, broad mudflats, narrow and treacherous channels, and high seawalls. Omar Bradley called it \"the worst possible place ever selected for an amphibious landing.\" While the Inchon-Seoul area was a key communications center, the risks of the landing were daunting. Collins and Sherman flew to Tokyo to be briefed on the plans by MacArthur, who declared: \"We shall land at Inchon, and I shall crush them.\"\nMacArthur was invited to speak at the 51st National Encampment of the Veterans of Foreign Wars in Chicago on 26 August 1950. He declined the invitation, but instead sent a statement that could be read out aloud, in which he contradicted Truman's policy towards the island of Formosa, saying: \"Nothing could be more fallacious than the threadbare argument by those who advocate appeasement and defeatism in the Pacific that if we defend Formosa we alienate continental Asia.\" Truman was infuriated by the word \"appeasement,\" and discussed the possibility of relieving MacArthur with Secretary of Defense Louis A. Johnson. Johnson responded that MacArthur was \"one of the greatest, if not the greatest generals of our generation.\" Truman told Johnson to send MacArthur an order withdrawing his statement, which he did; but it had already been read into Congressional Record. As it turned out, it was not MacArthur who was relieved, but Johnson. Truman had become irritated with Johnson's conflict with Secretary of State Acheson, and although he had said that Johnson would remain his Secretary of Defense for \"as long as I am President,\" he asked Johnson for his resignation. Publicly, Johnson received much of the blame for the defense cuts that had led to the lack of preparedness and consequent early defeats in Korea. He was replaced by General of the Army George Marshall.\n\nMacArthur held that his military objective was the destruction of the North Korean Army. That being the case, operations would be necessary north of the 38th parallel, although his Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, Major General Charles A. Willoughby, warned on 31 August that 37 Chinese divisions were grouping on the border between China and North Korea. The Joint Chiefs agreed with MacArthur on this issue. A National Security Council paper endorsed the legality of action north of the 38th parallel. The paper recommended that only South Korean troops be employed in the border regions with China and Russia. Should the Soviet Union intervene, MacArthur was to immediately retreat to the 38th parallel; but in the case of Chinese intervention, he was to keep fighting \"as long as action by UN military forces offers a reasonable chance of successful resistance.\" Truman endorsed the report on 11 September, but MacArthur remained in the dark because of the changeover of Secretaries of Defense, and was not informed until 22 September. When Truman was asked at a press conference on 21 September whether he had concluded to conduct operations in North Korea, he replied that he had not.\n\nIn the meantime, MacArthur's amphibious assault at Inchon went ahead on 15 September. \"The success of Inchon was so great and the subsequent prestige of General MacArthur was so overpowering,\" Collins later recalled, \"that the Chiefs hesitated thereafter to question later plans and decisions of the general, which should have been challenged.\" In response to a rumor that the Eighth Army planned to halt at the 38th parallel and await United Nations authorization to cross, Marshall sent a message to MacArthur informing him that: \"We want you to feel unhampered tactically and strategically to proceed north of 38th parallel. Announcement above referred to may precipitate embarrassment in the UN where evident desire is not to be confronted with necessity of a vote on passage, rather to find you have found it militarily necessary to do so.\" A few days later, MacArthur was instructed not to issue an announcement that his forces had crossed the 38th parallel. On 7 October a United Nations General Assembly Resolution was passed that could be broadly construed as permitting the invasion of North Korea.\n\nWith the 1950 mid-term elections drawing near, and Truman abstaining from overt campaigning while the troops were fighting in Korea, members of Truman's staff, most notably George Elsey, came up with another way to garner votes for the Democratic Party. In July 1944, President Franklin Roosevelt had traveled to Hawaii to meet with MacArthur and Admiral Chester Nimitz. At this meeting, Roosevelt made the decision to attack the Philippines in the final year of the Pacific war. It was a political triumph in an election year, refuting Republican claims that Roosevelt fixated on Europe at the expense of the Pacific.\nTruman emulated this by flying to the Pacific to meet MacArthur. Initially, Truman was unenthusiastic about the idea, as he disliked publicity stunts, but in October 1950, in the wake of the victories at Pusan and Inchon, MacArthur's star was burning bright. By meeting with him, Truman could emphasize his own part in the victories, as Commander-in-Chief. A message was sent to MacArthur suggesting a meeting on Hawaii or Wake Island. MacArthur replied that he \"would be delighted to meet the President on the morning of the 15th at Wake Island.\" When MacArthur discovered that the President would be bringing the news media with him, MacArthur asked if he could bring correspondents from Tokyo. His request was denied.\n\nTruman arrived at Wake Island on 15 October, where he was greeted on the tarmac by MacArthur, who had arrived the day before. MacArthur shook hands with the President rather than salute, and declined an offer to stay for lunch with the President which Bradley considered \"insulting\". This did not bother Truman; what did annoy the President, a former haberdasher, was MacArthur's \"greasy ham and eggs cap that evidently had been in use for twenty years.\" The meeting, which had no agenda and no structure, took the form of a free-wheeling discussion between the President and his advisors on one hand, and MacArthur and the CINCPAC, Admiral Arthur Radford, on the other. Topics discussed included Formosa, the Philippines and the wars in Vietnam and Korea. MacArthur noted that \"No new policies, no new strategy of war or international politics, were proposed or discussed.\" Robert Sherrod, who was present as a correspondent felt that he \"had witnessed nothing but a political grandstand play.\"\n\nHowever, MacArthur did say things that would later be used against him. When asked by the President about the odds of Soviet or Chinese intervention in Korea, MacArthur replied:\n\nMacArthur expressed the hope that the Eighth Army could withdraw to Japan by the end of the year. When Bradley asked if a division could be sent to Europe, MacArthur replied that he could make one available in January. In fact, Chinese troops had already begun crossing the Yalu into North Korea, and by November 180,000 had done so.\n\nWhen he returned from Wake, MacArthur faced the challenge of turning his promises into reality. On 24 October, he ordered his principal subordinates, Lieutenant General Walton Walker, the commander of the Eighth Army, and Major General Edward Almond of X Corps, to \"drive forward with all speed and full utilization of all their force.\" He also lifted the prohibition on troops other than South Koreans operating along the borders with China and the Soviet Union. Collins considered this a violation of the orders that the Joint Chiefs had issued on 27 September, but MacArthur pointed out that it was only, in the words of the original directive, \"a matter of policy.\" He added that the matter had been raised at Wake Island, but no one else recalled this, particularly not Truman, who, unaware of these discussions, told reporters on 26 October that Koreans and not Americans would occupy the border areas. Within days, MacArthur's forces had encountered the Chinese in the Battle of Onjong and the Battle of Unsan.\n\nTruman did not relieve MacArthur for the military reverses in Korea in November and December 1950. Truman later stated that he felt that MacArthur was no more to blame than General of the Army Dwight Eisenhower was for the military reverses he had suffered during the Battle of the Bulge. But this did not mean that it did not factor into his decision. \"I considered him a great strategist,\" Truman later recalled, \"until he made the march into North Korea without the knowledge that he should have had of the Chinese coming in.\"\n\nIn an attempt to slow the Chinese advance, MacArthur ordered the bridges across the Yalu to be bombed. After due consultation with his advisers, Truman declared that he would not approve of such an action, and the Joint Chiefs cancelled the order. When MacArthur protested, the President and the Joint Chiefs authorized the bombings, subject to the caveat that Chinese air space not be violated. Major General Emmett O'Donnell would later cite this to the Congressional inquiry into MacArthur's relief as an example of undue political interference in military operations. The Yalu River had many bends, and in some cases there were very restricted lines of approach without overflying the Yalu. This made life easier for the Communist antiaircraft gunners, but correspondingly less so for the aircrew. Within weeks, MacArthur was forced to retreat, and both Truman and MacArthur were forced to contemplate the prospect of abandoning Korea entirely.\n\nAt a press conference on 30 November 1950, Truman was asked about the use of nuclear weapons: The implication was that the authority to use atomic weapons now rested in the hands of MacArthur. Truman's White House issued a clarification, noting that \"only the President can authorize the use of the atom bomb, and no such authorization has been given,\" yet the comment still caused a domestic and international stir. Truman had touched upon one of the most sensitive issues in civil-military relations in the post-World War II period: civilian control of nuclear weapons, which was enshrined in the Atomic Energy Act of 1946.\n\nOn 9 December 1950, MacArthur requested field commander's discretion to employ nuclear weapons; he testified that such an employment would only be used to prevent an ultimate fallback, not to recover the situation in Korea. On 24 December 1950, MacArthur submitted a list of \"retardation targets\" in Korea, Manchuria and other parts of China, for which 34 atomic bombs would be required. According to Major General Courtney Whitney, MacArthur considered a proposal by Louis Johnson to use radioactive wastes to seal off North Korea, but never submitted this to the Joint Chiefs. In January 1951, he refused to entertain proposals for the forward deployment of nuclear weapons.\nIn early April 1951, the Joint Chiefs became alarmed by the build up of Soviet forces in the Far East, particularly bombers and submarines. On 5 April 1951, they drafted orders for MacArthur authorizing attacks on Manchuria and the Shantung Peninsula if the Chinese launched airstrikes against his forces originating from there. The next day Truman met with the chairman of the United States Atomic Energy Commission, Gordon Dean, and arranged for the transfer of nine Mark 4 nuclear bombs to military control. Dean was apprehensive about delegating the decision on how they should be used to MacArthur, who lacked expert technical knowledge of the weapons and their effects. The Joint Chiefs were not entirely comfortable about giving them to MacArthur either, for fear that he might prematurely carry out his orders. Instead, they decided that the nuclear strike force would report to the Strategic Air Command (SAC). This time the bombers deployed with the fissile cores. SAC did not intend to attack air bases and depots; the bombers would target industrial cities in North Korea and China. Deployments of SAC bombers to Guam continued until the end of the war.\n\nThere has been debate whether MacArthur advocated the employment of nuclear weapons, including over whether his submission to the Joint Chiefs of Staff was tantamount to a recommendation. In his testimony before the Senate Inquiry, he stated that he had not recommended their use. In 1960, MacArthur challenged a statement by Truman that he had wanted to use nuclear weapons, saying that \"atomic bombing in the Korean War was never discussed either by my headquarters or in any communication to or from Washington\"; Truman, admitting that he did not have documentation of any such claim, said that he was merely providing his personal opinion. In interview with Jim G. Lucas and Bob Considine on 25 January 1954, posthumously published in 1964, MacArthur said, \n\nIn 1985 Richard Nixon recalled discussing the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki with MacArthur:\n\nThe British Prime Minister, Clement Attlee, was particularly disturbed by Truman's gaffe about nuclear weapons, and sought to revive the wartime Quebec Agreement, under which the United States would not use nuclear weapons without Britain's consent. The British were concerned that the United States was drifting into a war with China. In a visit to the United States in December 1950, Attlee raised the fears of the British and other European governments that \"General MacArthur was running the show.\" As MacArthur's views about the importance of Asia in world affairs were well known, it was feared that United States would shift its focus away from Europe. In this instance, MacArthur was defended by Bradley, whose anglophobia dated back to World War II.\n\nThe British became alarmed in January 1951 when the Americans began talking of evacuating Korea. The British argued that to maintain European faith and unity it was vital to maintain some presence in Korea, even if it was nothing more than a toehold in the Pusan area. Once again, Bradley defended MacArthur, but it was clear that he had become an irritant in the relationship between the two countries. However, the alliance with Britain itself was unpopular in Congress. House Minority Leader Joseph William Martin, Jr. slammed Truman for following Attlee's Britain to \"slavery to government and crippling debt.\"\n\nOn 1 December 1950, MacArthur was asked by a reporter if the restrictions on operations against Chinese forces on the far side of the Yalu River were \"a handicap to effective military operations.\" He replied that they were indeed \"an enormous handicap, unprecedented in military history.\" On 6 December, Truman issued a directive requiring all military officers and diplomatic officials to clear with the State Department all but routine statements before making them public, \"and...refrain from direct communications on military or foreign policy with newspapers, magazines, and other publicity media.\" Major General Courtney Whitney gave MacArthur a legal opinion that this applied \"solely to formal public statements and not to communiqués, correspondence or personal conversations.\" MacArthur made similar remarks in press statements on 13 February and 7 March 1951.\n\nIn February and March 1951, the tide of war began to turn again, and MacArthur's forces drove north. Seoul, which had fallen on 4 January, was recaptured on 17 March. This raised hopes in Washington that the Chinese and North Koreans might be amenable to a ceasefire agreement, and Truman prepared a statement to this effect. MacArthur was informed of it by the Joint Chiefs on 20 March, and he warned the new commander of the Eighth Army, Lieutenant General Matthew B. Ridgway, that political constraints might soon impose limits on his proposed operations. On 23 March, MacArthur issued a communiqué about offering a ceasefire to the Chinese:\n\nThe next day, MacArthur authorized Ridgway to advance up to north of the 38th Parallel. Truman would later report that \"I was ready to kick him into the North China Sea...I was never so put out in my life.\" Truman felt that MacArthur's communiqué, which had not been cleared in accordance with the December directive, had pre-empted his own proposal. He later wrote:\nFor the moment, however, he did. There had been dramatic confrontations over policy before, the most notable of which was between President Abraham Lincoln and Major General George McClellan, in 1862. Another example was President James Polk's recall of Major General Winfield Scott after the Mexican–American War. Before relieving MacArthur, Truman consulted history books on how Lincoln and Polk dealt with their generals. Truman later said that Polk was his favorite president because \"he had the courage to tell Congress to go to Hell on foreign policy matters.\"\n\nThere were genuine differences of opinion over policy between MacArthur and the Truman administration. One was MacArthur's deep-seated belief that it was not possible to separate the struggle against Communism in Europe from that going on in Asia. This was seen as the result of being stationed for too many years in the Orient, and of his perspective as a theater commander responsible only for part of the Far East. Another important policy difference was MacArthur's belief that China was not, as Acheson maintained, \"the Soviet Union's largest and most important satellite,\" but an independent state with its own agenda that, in MacArthur's words, \"for its own purposes is [just temporarily] allied with Soviet Russia.\" If MacArthur's thesis was accepted, then it followed that expanding the war with China would not provoke a conflict with the Soviet Union. The Joint Chiefs emphatically disagreed, although this contradicted their position that it was Europe and not Asia that was the prime concern of the Soviet Union. Even among Republicans, there was little support for MacArthur's position.\n\nOn 5 April, Martin read the text of a letter he had received from MacArthur, dated 20 March, criticizing the Truman administration's priorities on the floor of the House. In it, MacArthur had written:\n\nMacArthur later wrote that Martin had released the letter \"for some unexplained reason and without consulting me\", but it had not been marked as being confidential or off the record.\n\nThe practice of intercepting and decrypting diplomatic messages of friend and foe alike was a closely held secret in the 1950s. In mid-March 1951, Truman learned through such intercepts that MacArthur had conversations with diplomats in Spain's and Portugal's Tokyo embassies. In these talks, MacArthur had expressed confidence that he would succeed in expanding the Korean War into a major conflict resulting in the permanent disposal of the \"Chinese Communist question\" and MacArthur did not want either country to be alarmed if this happened. The content of this particular intercept was known by only a very few of Truman's closest advisers, two being Paul Nitze, Director of the Policy Planning Staff of the State Department and his associate, Charles Burton Marshall. Truman considered MacArthur's conversations to be outright treachery and concluded that MacArthur had to be relieved, but was unable to act immediately because of MacArthur's political support and to avoid wider knowledge of the existence of the electronic intercepts of diplomatic messages.\n\nRidgway had prepared an offensive known as Operation Rugged, and pressed MacArthur for permission to launch it. On 15 March 1951, the day after Seoul had been recaptured a second time, Truman had responded to a reporter's question about whether UN forces would again be allowed to move north of the 38th Parallel by saying that it would be \"a tactical matter for the field commander\". MacArthur thereupon gave Ridgway permission to launch his attack, setting an objective line north of the 38th Parallel that would secure Seoul's water supply. He did so without consulting with Washington until after the attack began on 5 April 1951. It was making steady progress when MacArthur was relieved on 11 April.\n\nFollowing the completion of flight operations the evening of 7 April 1951, Task Force 77, the Seventh Fleet's fast carrier task force, with the carriers and , departed Korean waters in the Sea of Japan bound for the Straits of Formosa. At 11:00 on 11 April, Task Force 77 operating near the west coast of Taiwan, commenced an \"aerial parade\" along the east coast of mainland China. Concurrently, the destroyer arrived at its assigned station offshore from the Chinese seaport of Swatow (Shantou), provoking the Chinese to surround it with an armada of over 40 armed powered junks. Although Task Force 77 was conducting its aerial parade over the horizon to the west, nearly two hours passed before aircraft from the task force appeared over Swatow and made threatening passes at the Chinese vessels and the port city. MacArthur officially received notification of his dismissal shortly after 15:00 Tokyo time (14:00 on the China coast), although he had found out about it half an hour before. Two hours later, the \"Bole\" retired from its station without hostile action being initiated by either side. Author James Edwin Alexander expressed little doubt that the \"Bole\" and its crew were made \"sitting ducks\" by MacArthur trying to provoke the Chinese into attacking a U.S. warship in an attempt to expand the conflict.\n\nOn the morning of 6 April 1951, Truman held a meeting in his office with Marshall, Bradley, Acheson and Harriman to discuss what would be done about MacArthur. Harriman was emphatically in favor of MacArthur's relief, but Bradley opposed it. George Marshall asked for more time to consider the matter. Acheson was personally in favor of relieving MacArthur but did not disclose this. Instead, he warned Truman that it would be \"the biggest fight of your administration.\" At a second meeting the next day, Marshall and Bradley continued to oppose relief. On 8 April, the Joint Chiefs met with Marshall in his office. Each of the chiefs in turn expressed the opinion that MacArthur's relief was desirable from a \"military point of view,\" but they recognized that military considerations were not paramount. They were concerned that \"if MacArthur were not relieved, a large segment of our people would charge that civil authorities no longer controlled the military.\" The four advisers met with Truman in his office again on 9 April. Bradley informed the President of the views of the Joint Chiefs, and Marshall added that he agreed with them. Truman wrote in his diary that \"it is of unanimous opinion of all that MacArthur be relieved. All four so advise.\" Later, before Congress, the Joint Chiefs would insist that they had only \"concurred\" with the relief, not \"recommended\" it.\n\nOn 11 April 1951, President Truman drafted an order to MacArthur, which was issued under Bradley's signature:\nIn a 3 December 1973 article in \"Time\" magazine, Truman was quoted as saying in the early 1960s:\nAlthough Truman and Acheson accused MacArthur of insubordination, the Joint Chiefs avoided any suggestion of this. MacArthur was not, in fact, relieved for insubordination. Insubordination was a military offense, and MacArthur could have requested a public court martial similar to that of Billy Mitchell in the 1920s. The outcome of such a trial was uncertain, and it might well have found him not guilty and ordered his reinstatement. The Joint Chiefs agreed that there was \"little evidence that General MacArthur had ever failed to carry out a direct order of the Joint Chiefs, or acted in opposition to an order.\" \"In point of fact,\" Bradley insisted, \"MacArthur had stretched but not legally violated any JCS directives. He had violated the President's 6 December directive, relayed to him by the JCS, but this did not constitute violation of a JCS order.\"\n\nThe intention was that MacArthur would be personally notified of his relief by Secretary of the Army Frank Pace, who was touring the front in Korea, at 20:00 on 11 April (Washington, D.C. time), which was 10:00 on 12 April (Tokyo time). However, Pace did not receive the message due to a signals failure in Korea. Meanwhile, reporters began asking if rumors of MacArthur's relief were true. Truman then \"decided that we could not afford the courtesy of Secretary Pace's personal delivery of the order,\" and called a press conference at which he issued his statement to the press:\nIn Tokyo, MacArthur and his wife were at a luncheon at the American embassy for Senator Warren Magnuson and William Stern, executive vice president of Northwest Airlines, when Colonel Sidney Huff, MacArthur's aide and one of the \"Bataan gang\" who had escaped from Corregidor with the general in 1942, heard about the relief from commercial radio broadcast. Huff promptly informed Mrs. MacArthur, who in turn told the general. Japanese radio stations soon picked up the story, but the official notice would not arrive for another half hour.\n\nCivilian control of the military is an American tradition dating back to the founding of the republic. In his 1956 memoirs, Truman wrote:\nFollowing the relief, most of the avalanche of mail and messages sent to the White House by the public supported MacArthur. On issues like character, integrity, honor and service, they rated MacArthur as the better man. What support Truman garnered was largely based on the principle of civilian control.\n\n\"The United States Constitution\", wrote Samuel P. Huntington, \"despite widespread belief to the contrary, does provide for civilian control.\" It drew no distinction between civil and military responsibilities, and provided for no subordination of the one to the other. By dividing responsibility for the military between the executive and the legislature, it made control more difficult. Any attempt by one branch to assert control would likely involve a clash with the other. Debates nominally about civilian control were usually, in practice, about which branch would exercise control rather than how control would be exercised. The framers of the constitution did not consider the issue of the management of a distinct and technically sophisticated military profession because no such thing existed at the time. It appeared in the 19th century as a result of social changes brought about by the French Revolution, and technological changes wrought by the industrial revolution. While the framers believed in civilian control of the military, they framed it in terms of a people's militia in which civilian and military were one and the same.\n\nAnother American tradition is that of an apolitical military, although this custom was of more recent origin, dating back only to the period after the American Civil War. Few officers voted in the 19th century, but not so much from a lack of interest in politics as because frequently moving from state to state and living on Federal land effectively disenfranchised them under the laws of many states. Under General of the Army William T. Sherman, the Commanding General of the United States Army from 1869 to 1883, who hated politics, this custom of an apolitical military became firmly established.\n\nNor, unlike their European counterparts, did American generals and admirals have influence on or involvement in foreign policy; but mainly because in the frontier Army of MacArthur's youth, there was no requirement to do so. This began to change after the Spanish–American War, when American military forces started to be deployed overseas in the Pacific, Asia and the Caribbean for extended periods of time.\n\nThe concept of the theater of war developed during World War II. At such a senior level of command, military and political issues tended to merge. As theater commander in the Southwest Pacific, MacArthur had been accountable to the Australian government as well as his own, making him, in President Roosevelt's words to him, \"an ambassador as well as Supreme Commander.\" MacArthur's less than wholehearted support for the \"Europe first\" strategy was apt to cause annoyance in Washington when the chain of command was bypassed by MacArthur through the Prime Minister of Australia, John Curtin.\n\nGeneral Marshall expressed this conflict in his testimony before the Senate:\nIn \"The Federalist Papers\", Alexander Hamilton argued that: \n\nBut on 26 June 1950, Truman sent the armed forces into Korea without any such Congressional mandate. The subsequent United Nations Security Council resolution authorized military assistance to South Korea, but the United Nations Participation Act laid down that:\n\nThe Congressional inquiry triggered by MacArthur's relief ruled that Truman's actions violated both constitutional and statutory requirements. While presidents had in the past used extra-legal military force, this was in \"fights with pirates, landings of small naval contingents on barbarous or semi-barbarous coasts, the dispatch of small bodies of troops to chase bandits or cattle rustlers across the Mexican border, and the like.\" Congressman Vito Marcantonio, who opposed the war in Korea, argued that \"when we agreed to the United Nations Charter we never agreed to supplant our Constitution with the United Nations Charter. The power to declare and make war is vested in the representatives of the people, in the Congress of the United States.\"\n\nSenator William F. Knowland noted that:\n\nThe news of MacArthur's relief was greeted with shock in Japan. The Diet of Japan passed a resolution of gratitude for MacArthur, and the Emperor Hirohito visited him at the embassy in person, the first time a Japanese Emperor had ever visited a foreigner with no standing. The \"Mainichi Shimbun\" said:\n\nIn the \"Chicago Tribune\", Senator Robert A. Taft called for immediate impeachment proceedings against Truman:\nNewspapers like the \"Chicago Tribune\" and the \"Los Angeles Times\" opined that MacArthur's \"hasty and vindictive\" relief was due to foreign pressure, particularly from the United Kingdom and the British socialists in Attlee's government. The Republican Party whip, Senator Kenneth S. Wherry, charged that the relief was the result of pressure from \"the Socialist Government of Great Britain.\"\n\nOn 17 April 1951, MacArthur flew back to the United States, a country he had not seen in years. When he reached San Francisco he was greeted by the commander of the Sixth United States Army, Lieutenant General Albert C. Wedemeyer. MacArthur received a parade there that was attended by 500,000 people. He was greeted on arrival at Washington National Airport on 19 April by the Joint Chiefs of Staff and General Jonathan Wainwright. Truman sent Vaughan as his representative, which was seen as a slight, as Vaughan was despised by the public and professional soldiers alike as a corrupt crony. \"It was a shameful thing to fire MacArthur, and even more shameful to send Vaughan,\" one member of the public wrote to Truman.\n\nMacArthur addressed a joint session of Congress where he delivered his famous \"\" speech, in which he declared:\n\nIn response, the Pentagon issued a press release noting that \"the action taken by the President in relieving General MacArthur was based upon the unanimous recommendations of the President's principal civilian and military advisers including the Joint Chiefs of Staff.\" Afterwards, MacArthur flew to New York City where he received the largest ticker-tape parade in history up to that time. He also visited Chicago and Milwaukee, where he addressed large rallies.\n\nIn May and June 1951, the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee held \"an inquiry into the military situation in the Far East and the facts surrounding the relief of General of the Army Douglas MacArthur.\" The Senate thereby attempted to avoid a constitutional crisis. Because of the sensitive political and military topics being discussed, the inquiry was held in closed session, and only a heavily censored transcript was made public until 1973. The two committees were jointly chaired by Senator Richard Russell, Jr. Fourteen witnesses were called: MacArthur, Marshall, Bradley, Collins, Vandenberg, Sherman, Adrian S. Fisher, Acheson, Wedemeyer, Johnson, Oscar C. Badger II, Patrick J. Hurley, and David C. Barr and O'Donnell.\n\nThe testimony of Marshall and the Joint Chiefs rebutted many of MacArthur's arguments. Marshall emphatically declared that there had been no disagreement between himself, the President, and the Joint Chiefs. However, it also exposed their own timidity in dealing with MacArthur, and that they had not always kept him fully informed. Vandenberg questioned whether the Air Force could be effective against targets in Manchuria, while Bradley noted that the Communists were also waging limited war in Korea, having not attacked UN airbases or ports, or their own \"privileged sanctuary\" in Japan. Their judgment was that it was not worth it to expand the war, although they conceded that they were prepared to do so if the Communists escalated the conflict, or if no willingness to negotiate was forthcoming. They also disagreed with MacArthur's assessment of the effectiveness of the South Korean and Chinese Nationalist forces. Bradley said:\nThe committees concluded that \"the removal of General MacArthur was within the constitutional powers of the President but the circumstances were a shock to national pride.\" They also found that \"there was no serious disagreement between General MacArthur and the Joint Chiefs of Staff as to military strategy.\" They recommended that \"the United States should never again become involved in war without the consent of the Congress.\"\n\nPolls showed that the majority of the public still disapproved of Truman's decision to relieve MacArthur, and were more inclined to agree with MacArthur than with Bradley or Marshall. Truman's approval rating fell to 23 percent in mid-1951, which was lower than Richard Nixon's low of 25 percent during the Watergate Scandal in 1974, and Lyndon Johnson's of 28 percent at the height of the Vietnam War in 1968. , it remains the lowest Gallup Poll approval rating recorded by any serving president.\n\nThe increasingly unpopular war in Korea dragged on, and the Truman administration was beset with a series of corruption scandals. He eventually decided not to run for re-election. Adlai Stevenson, the Democratic candidate in the 1952 presidential election, attempted to distance himself from the President as much as possible. The election was won by the Republican candidate, General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower, whose administration ramped up the pressure on the Chinese in Korea with conventional bombing and renewed threats of using nuclear weapons. Coupled with a more favorable international political climate in the wake of the death of Joseph Stalin in 1953, this led the Chinese and North Koreans to agree to terms. The belief that the threat of nuclear weapons played an important part in the outcome would lead to their threatened use against China on a number of occasions during the 1950s.\n\nAs a result of their support of Truman, the Joint Chiefs became viewed as politically tainted. Senator Taft regarded Bradley in particular with suspicion, due to Bradley's focus on Europe at the expense of Asia. Taft urged Eisenhower to replace the chiefs as soon as possible. First to go was Vandenberg, who had terminal cancer and had already announced plans to retire. On 7 May 1953, Eisenhower announced that he would be replaced by General Nathan Twining. Soon after it was announced that Bradley would be replaced by Admiral Arthur W. Radford, the Commander-in-Chief of the United States Pacific Command, Collins would be succeeded by Ridgway, and Admiral William Fechteler, who had become CNO on the death of Sherman in July 1951, by Admiral Robert B. Carney.\n\nThe relief of MacArthur cast a long shadow over American civil-military relations. When Lyndon Johnson met with General William Westmoreland in Honolulu in 1966, he told him: \"General, I have a lot riding on you. I hope you don't pull a MacArthur on me.\" For his part, Westmoreland and his senior colleagues were eager to avoid any hint of dissent or challenge to presidential authority. This came at a high price. In his 1998 book \"Dereliction of Duty: Lyndon Johnson, Robert McNamara, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Lies That Led to Vietnam\", then-Lieutenant Colonel H. R. McMaster argued that the Joint Chiefs failed in their duty to provide the President, Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara or Congress with frank and fearless professional advice. This book was an influential one; the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the time, General Hugh Shelton, gave copies to every four-star officer in the military.\n\nOn the one hand, the relief of MacArthur established a precedent that generals and admirals could be fired for any public or private disagreement with government policy. In 1977, Major General John K. Singlaub publicly criticized proposed cuts in the size of American forces in South Korea, and was summarily relieved by President Jimmy Carter for making statements \"inconsistent with announced national security policy.\" During the Gulf War in 1990, Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney relieved the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, General Michael Dugan, for showing \"poor judgment at a very sensitive time\" in making a series of statements to the media during a visit to Saudi Arabia. General Stanley A. McChrystal was sacked by President Barack Obama in 2009 after McChrystal and his staff made disparaging remarks about senior civilian government officials in an article published in \"Rolling Stone\" magazine. This elicited comparisons with MacArthur, as the war in Afghanistan was not going well. On the other hand, Major General James N. Post III was relieved and issued a letter of reprimand in 2015 for discouraging personnel under his command from communicating with the Congress, which he described as \"treason\".\n\nMacArthur's relief \"left a lasting current of popular sentiment that in matters of war and peace, the military really knows best,\" a philosophy which became known as \"MacArthurism.\" In February 2012, Lieutenant Colonel Daniel L. Davis published a report entitled \"Dereliction of Duty II\" in which he criticized senior military commanders for misleading Congress about the war in Afghanistan, especially General David Petraeus, noting that:\n\nDuring the 1992 presidential election, Bill Clinton used endorsements from the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral William J. Crowe, and 21 other retired generals and flag officers to counter doubts about his ability to serve as Commander in Chief. This became a feature of later presidential election campaigns. During the 2004 presidential election, twelve retired generals and admirals endorsed Senator John Kerry, including former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral William Crowe, and the former Chief of Staff of the Air Force, General Merrill \"Tony\" McPeak, who also appeared in television advertisements defending Kerry against the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth. During this election campaign, one retired four-star General, Tommy Franks, spoke at the Republican National Convention while another, John Shalikashvili, addressed the Democratic National Convention.\n\nIn early 2006, in what was called the \"Generals Revolt,\" six retired generals, Major General John Batiste, Major General Paul D. Eaton, Lieutenant General Gregory Newbold, Major General John M. Riggs, Major General Charles H. Swannack Jr. and General Anthony C. Zinni, called for the resignation of Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, accusing him of \"abysmal\" military planning and lack of strategic competence. The ethics of a system under which serving generals felt compelled to publicly support policies that they privately believed were potentially ruinous for the country and cost the lives of military personnel, did not escape critical public comment, and was mocked by political satirist Stephen Colbert at a dinner attended by President George W. Bush and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Peter Pace. Rumsfeld resigned in November 2006. By 2008, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen, felt obliged to pen an open letter in which he reminded all servicemen that \"The U.S. military must remain apolitical at all times.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2383814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2383814", "title": "Protocol (diplomacy)", "text": "Protocol (diplomacy)\n\nIn international politics, protocol is the etiquette of diplomacy and affairs of state. It may also refer to an international agreement that supplements or amends a treaty.\n\nA protocol is a rule which describes how an activity should be performed, especially in the field of diplomacy. In diplomatic services and governmental fields of endeavor protocols are often unwritten guidelines. Protocols specify the proper and generally accepted behavior in matters of state and diplomacy, such as showing appropriate respect to a head of state, ranking diplomats in chronological order of their accreditation at court, and so on. One definition is:\n\nProtocol is commonly described as a set of international courtesy rules. These well-established and time-honored rules have made it easier for nations and people to live and work together. Part of protocol has always been the acknowledgment of the hierarchical standing of all present. Protocol rules are based on the principles of civility.—Dr. P.M. Forni on behalf of the International Association of Protocol Consultants and Officers.\n\nThere are two meanings of the word \"protocol\". In the legal sense, it is defined as an international agreement that supplements or amends a treaty. In the diplomatic sense, the term refers to the set of rules, procedures, conventions and ceremonies that relate to relations between states. In general, protocol represents the recognized and generally accepted system of international courtesy.\n\nThe term \"protocol\" is derived, via French and Medieval Latin, from the Greek word \"protokollon\" \"first glued sheet of \"or\" onto a papyrus-roll\". This comes from the act of gluing a sheet of paper to the front of a document to preserve it when it was sealed, which imparted additional authenticity to it. In the beginning, the term protocol related to the various forms of interaction observed in official correspondence between states, which were often elaborate in nature. In course of time, however, it has come to cover a much wider range of international relations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32359539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32359539", "title": "Radical Democratic Union", "text": "Radical Democratic Union\n\nRadical Democratic Union () was a Turkish political movement active in the 1980s. The movement was also known by names \"Radical Party\", \"Radical Greens Party\", \"Radical Democrat Green Party\" to the public. \n\nRadical Democratic Union was founded in 1985. The chairman of its coordination committee was İbrahim Eren who was active in the Workers Party of Turkey prior to 1980 Turkish coup d'état and later at the Aegean Environmental Health Centre. The movement was inspired by the Radical Party and the German Green Party, aiming at uniting five tendencies, namely environmentalists, homosexuals, feminists, anti-militarists and atheists. The magazine \"Yeşil Barış\" (Green Peace) published by the movement also drew considerable attention from sex workers and transsexuals. \n\nThe media publicised the Radical Democratic Union as a \"gay party\" and the pressure on the movement subsequently increased. İbrahim Eren was arrested and stabbed in prison and at work. Poet Süha Tuğtepe who acted as the theoretician of the atheist tendency left İstanbul due to serious threats from Islamist circles. The events resulted in important splits from the movement. Many environmentalist members joined the Greens Party founded in 1988 under Celal Ertuğ, a former government minister. İbrahim Eren faced conflicts of view regarding the 1989 local elections and left the movement, practically ending the Radical Democratic Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "13725317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13725317", "title": "Reebok Human Rights Award", "text": "Reebok Human Rights Award\n\nThe Reebok Human Rights Award honours activists under the age of 30 who fight for human rights through non-violent means. Each year, the award is given to four or five individuals. Each receives a grant of US$50,000 that must be used to support their human rights work. The awards are underwritten by the Reebok Foundation. No new awards have been given out since 2007.\n\nYouth from close to 40 countries have received the award since it was established in 1988.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "360727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=360727", "title": "Reichskommissar", "text": "Reichskommissar\n\nReichskommissar (rendered as \"Commissioner of the Empire\" or as \"Reich -\" or \"Imperial Commissioner\"), in German history, was an official gubernatorial title used for various public offices during the period of the German Empire and the Nazi Third Reich.\n\nIn the unified Deutsches Reich (after 1871), Reichskommissars were appointed to oversee special tasks. For instance, there was a Reichskommisar for emigration (\"Reichskommissar für das Auswanderungswesen\") in Hamburg.\n\nPresumably the same title is rendered as \"German Imperial Commissioner\" in the case of Heligoland (\"Helgoland\" in German), a strategic, once-Danish, island in the North Sea, formally handed over to Germany by the UK on 9 August 1890 (under the Heligoland–Zanzibar Treaty) and on 15 December 1890 formally annexed to Germany (after 18 February 1891 part of the Prussian province of Schleswig-Holstein): 9 August 1890 – 1891 Adolf Wermuth (b. 1855 – d. 1927)\n\nThe title of Reichskommissar was used during the German Empire for the governors of most of the \"Schutzgebiete\" (a German term literally meaning protectorate, but also applied to ordinary colonies).\n\n\n\n\n\nThe title of \"Reichskommissar\" was given by Adolf Hitler to a number of Nazi governors, mainly in several occupied countries during World War II, but also before the war to reintegrate former Prussian territory regained on France, as well as various other regions inhabited by ethnic Germans. Depending on circumstances they could be severely dictatorial and repressive, most notably Erich Koch in the Ukraine.\n\nA plebiscite was held in the Territory of the Saar Basin (presently Saarland) on 13 January 1935: 90.3% of those voting wished to join Germany rather than join France. Josef Bürckel (b. 1895 – d. 1944) was appointed on 1 March 1935 as \"Reichskommissar für die Rückgliederung des Saarlandes\", then changed his style from 17 June 1936 to \"Reichskommissar für das Saarland\", and from 8 April 1940 to \"Reichskommissar für die Saarpfalz\"; finally from 11 March 1941, he was made \"Reichsstatthalter in der \"Westmark\"\" (the region's new name, meaning \"Western March or Border\"), till 28 September 1944 when he was succeeded by Willi Stöhr (b. 1903, also NSDAP), who remained in office until 21 March 1945.\n\nAfter the Sudetenland region of Czechoslovakia was annexed by Germany on 1 October 1938, it was under a Military governor (Wilhelm Keitel; 1 October 1938 – 20 October 1938), until Konrad Henlein was appointed Reichskommissar of the territories on 21 October 1938. On 1 May 1939 a regular 'domestic' \"Reichsgau\" Sudetenland was created; Henlein stayed on as Reichsstatthalter until the region was re-incorporated into Czechoslovakia on 4 May 1945.\n\n1 May 1939 – 1 April 1940 Josef Bürckel (b. 1895 – d. 1944) NSDAP, in fact the maintained last Austrian Premier of 15 October 1938 constituted metropolitan capital city-entity Gross-Wien (Great Vienna), is in transitional office, then the same is made the first of two \"Reichsstatthalter\" (he till 10 August 1940), equivalent to a Gauleiter in Germany proper.\n\nAfter the Norwegian king and his government fled during the German invasion of the country and the failure of a coup-d'état by the fascist politician Vidkun Quisling, Hitler appointed a \"Reichskommissar für die besetzten Norwegischen Gebiete\" (Reich Commissioner for the occupied Norwegian territories) on 24 April 1940. The office had two consecutive Reichskommissars with extensive authority:\n\nAfter the German invasion of the country, the Dutch government and crown went in exile in London and the Netherlands was placed under the command of two successive military governors:\nThere was one \"Reichskommissar für die besetzten niederländischen Gebiete\" (Reich Commissioner for the occupied Dutch territories):\n\nBelgium was initially placed under a \"Militärverwaltung\", headed by military governors. The country was joined administratively to \"North France\", i.e. the adjacent French départements \"Nord\" and \"Pas-de-Calais\". This was done both for security reasons, as the area was to be used as a staging ground in an expected invasion of Britain, as well as to \"re-claim\" French Flanders as a historic part of Germanic Flanders. The Military Administration in Belgium and Northern France had two successive governors:\n\nThis situation continued until July 1944, when a \"Reichskommissar für Belgien-Nordfrankreich\" was appointed: \n\nIn December 1944, when the allies had already liberated virtually all of Belgium, its territory was split up into three \"Gau\"-type entities as integral (\"Germanic\") parts of the Reich: the bi-cultural Belgian capital Brussels (\"Brüssel\" in German, \"Brussel\" in Dutch and \"Bruxelles\" in French) remained directly under the German \"Reichskommissar\" as a Brussels District, but the bulk of the country was divided ethno-linguistically and placed under collaborating Belgian fascist party leaders (on paper) as Gauleiters and with Führer-imitating titles in their national languages:\n\nGauleiter of \"Reichsgau Flandern\" (Flanders, \"Vlaanderen\" in Dutch; supposedly including French Flanders in North France) and National leader of the Flemish People (\"Landsleider van het Vlaamsche Volk\") as well as \"Head of the Flemish Liberation Committee\" (\"Hoofd van het Vlaamsche Bevrijdingscomité\"):\n\nGauleiter of \"Reichsgau Wallonien\" (Wallonia, \"Wallonie\" in French) and Leader of the Walloon People (\"Chef du Peuple Wallon\"):\n\nBefore the beginning of Operation Barbarossa (the eastern front campaign against the Soviet Union) on 22 June 1941, the Nazi ideologist Alfred Rosenberg suggested the administrative division of conquered Soviet territory in the following \"Reichskommissariate\", only the first two of which would become reality through military success: \n\nThis suggested an intention to destroy Russia as a political entity, as the Nazis organised the areas adjacent to Greater Germany's eastern provinces in accordance with the geopolitical \"Lebensraum\" idea (\"Drang nach Osten\"), to benefit future \"Aryan\" generations. When German forces entered Soviet territory, they immediately implemented this administrative plan instating the Reichskommissariat of \"Ostland\" in the Baltic lands and \"Ukraine\" in the Ukraine, headed by Hinrich Lohse and Erich Koch respectively. These administrators put in practice the intended measures during the whole of their administrative period, until 1943–44, when the Germans after the Battle of Kursk were gradually driven out by force.\n\nOn 17 July 1941, the Reichskommissariat Ostland (\"Eastland\") was established, soon uniting German-occupied Lithuania, Latvia (from 1 September 1941) and Estonia (from 5 December 1941) and Belarus. Ostland was organized into four General Districts (\"Generalbezirke\"); only the (Latvian) capital city of Riga (\"Gebiet Riga Stadt\") was directly administered by the \"Reichskommissar für das Ostland\". The incumbents were: \n\nThe territory in Ukraine occupied by Germany since 25 June 1941 initially fell under a military governor: \n\nThe Reichskommissariat Ukraine was established on 20 August 1941, under a \"Reichskommissar für die Ukraine\". The incumbents were:\n\nCentral Russia was never brought under sufficient German control to permit its transfer to civilian administration, but a designated \"Reichskommissar für Moskowien\" was appointed on 17 July 1941:\n\nThe Caucasus was never brought under sufficient German control to permit its transfer to civilian administration, but a designated \"Reichskommissar für die Kaukasus\" was appointed on 17 July 1941:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10982859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10982859", "title": "Richard B. Moore", "text": "Richard B. Moore\n\nRichard Benjamin Moore (9 August 1893 – 1978) was a Barbados-born African-Caribbean civil rights activist and prominent Socialist. He was also one of the earlier advocates of the term African American as opposed to Negro, or \"black\".\n\nRichard Benjamin Moore was a Barbadian writer born on 9 August 1893 in Barbados, West Indies, to Richard Henry Moore and Josephine Thorne Moore. In Barbados, the Richard Henry and Josephine Moore family was considered middle-class in terms of socioeconomic status. Richard Henry Moore was the moneymaker of the family, working as a preacher and building contractor in Barbados. Unfortunately, tragedy struck when Richard B. Moore’s mother died when he was three years old. Moore’s father later remarried, to Elizabeth Mclean. Soon thereafter, Moore’s father died in 1902 when young Richard was aged nine. With both biological parents dead, Moore was raised by his stepmother Elizabeth Mclean.\n\nMclean wanted to carry out Richard senior’s wishes of giving young Richard the best education. It is for this reason that Mclean aided young Richard in traveling to the United States. In hopes of furthering his education, Moore migrated to The United States of America and arrived in New York City on 4 July 1909. However, Moore would not become a naturalised citizen until 11 September 1924. Although African Americans were free in the United States, they were far from being treated equal to European-Americans in America. Moore was immediately faced with ethnic discrimination when it came to employment and educational opportunities among other things. Although trained in Barbados to do clerical work, he was forced to turn to the more unfavourable jobs such as elevator operator and work in a silk manufacturing firm.\n\nDue to the struggles that Moore encountered and observed, he became a strong vocalist for the rights of African Americans. In 1919 he joined the African Blood Brotherhood (ABB), which was an organization formed to defend African Americans from race riots and lynching. Moore, along with other African-American advocates, joined the Socialist Party in the early 1920s. Moore joined the Socialist Party, in part, because at the time the Socialist party was transforming itself into a force to fight against segregation.\n\nMoore was a frequent political candidate of the Socialist Party. In 1928 he ran for U.S. Congress in New York's 21st Congressional District. In 1934, Moore ran on the Socialist ticket for Chief Judge of the New York Court of Appeals. In 1935, he became the organiser for the International Labor Defense in the New England Territory. He used his position in this organisation to speak on behalf the Scottsboro Boys, a case in which nine young African-American males were accused of raping two young European-American women. \n\nIn 1942, Moore was expelled from the Socialist Party because he was accused of being an African-American nationalist; keeping African-American issues on the front burner.\n\nHe continued his efforts for equal rights in America. He also played a leading role in Caribbean advocacy groups. Moore, like his friend Hubert Harrison, was a bibliophile, collecting over 15,000 books and pamphlets on the African-American experiences worldwide. This collection of books is currently housed in a library that Moore developed in Barbados. Moore also ran the Frederick Douglass Book Center in Harlem. \n\nMoore wrote a few books himself, including \"The Name Negro, Its Origin and Evil Use\" (1960) and \"Caribs, Cannibals and Human Relations\" (1972). He also had essays and articles published in various magazines and journals including the \"Negro Champion\", \"Daily Worker\", and \"Freedomways\".\n\nRichard Benjamin Moore died in his homeland of Barbados in 1978 at the age of 85.\n\nJoyce Moore Turner and W. Burghart Turner, \"Richard B. Moore: Caribbean Militant in Harlem.\" Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1988.\nJoyce Moore Turner, \"Caribbean Crusaders and the Harlem Renaissance.\" Urbana: Illinois Press, 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "621391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=621391", "title": "Soh Jaipil", "text": "Soh Jaipil\n\nPhilip Jaisohn (January 7, 1864 – January 5, 1951) was the anglicized name used by Soh Jaipil (), a noted champion for Korea's independence, journalist, the first Korean to become a naturalized citizen of the United States, and the founder of the first Korean newspaper in Hangul, the Independent News.\n\nHe was one of the organizers of the Gapsin Coup in 1884 as well as the 1896 to 1898 civil rights movement and other suffrage movements. However, when the Gapsin Coup failed, he took refuge in the United States, where he became a medical doctor. During his time in the United States he became the first Korean to gain American citizenship. From 1895 to 1898 he returned to Korea as chief adviser to the Joseon dynasty government and returned from 1945 to 1948 as chief adviser to the American occupation forces in the south. His nicknames were Songjae () and Ssang-gyeong (), his courtesy name was Yun-gyeong () and he wrote under the pen name N.H. Osia.\n\nSoh Jaipil was born in Boseong County, Korea. His family was one of the Joseon Dynasty's noble families. He was the second son of a Soh Kwang-hyo (also known as Soh Kwang-ha), who was a local magistrate in Boseong County. He was raised by one of his relatives in Seoul. At eight years of age, he was adopted by Soh Kwang-ha, the second cousin of his biological father Soh Kwang-hyo.\n\nSoh's family was from the upper echelons of Joseon Society. He was the eight generation descendant of Seo Jong-je, a daughter to Queen Jeongseong. She was the wife to the 21st King Yeongjo. Seo Kwang-bum, who shared similar ideological beliefs was also from his family.\n\nDuring his adolescence Soh studied at Kim Seong-geun and Park Kyu-su's private school. When Soh was a teenager, he had already been exposed to the reformist ideals of Kim Ok-gyun.\n\nHe passed the civil service exam at the age of 18, becoming one of the youngest people to ever pass this exam. As a result, he became a junior officer in 1882. Thereafter he was appointed to Gyoseokwan Bujeongja () and Seungmunwon Gajuseo (). In 1883 he was appointed to Seungmunwon Bujeongja () and Hunryunwon Bubongsa (). In the following year, he was sent to Japan where he studied both at the Keio Gijuku (the forerunner of the Keio University) and the Toyama Army Academy. In July 1884, his adoptive mother died, but he quickly returned to public service under special orders.\n\nIn his reports to the king, Soh explained that in the new world Korea's armed forces were useless and obsolete. This annoyed powerful conservatives, but it made Soh widely known and respected among like-minded young intellectuals. By that time, a small but growing number of young intellectuals understood that fundamental reform had to occur or Korea would fall victim to the imperialist powers. that he was appointed to Joryeon-guk Sagwanjang ().\n\nIn December 1884, Soh, following Kim Ok-gyun, was involved in the Gapsin Coup, a radical attempt to overturn the old regime and establish equality among people. Soh and Kim Ok-gyun, Park Yeong-hyo, Yun Chi-ho, Hong Yeong-shik, and others had planned a coup for seven months, from July to December 1884. He was appointed the Vice-Minister of Defense. The coup was defeated in three days, as China intervened by sending military troops. As a result, his two younger brothers were killed and his biological father Soh Kwang-ha and biological mother Lady Lee of Seongju were executed under a guilt-by-association system. His first wife Lady Kim was sold into slavery, but committed suicide. Convicted of treason, Soh Jaipil lost his whole family and had to flee Korea to save his life.\n\nThe majority of the 1884 revolutionaries fled to Japan. Unlike them, Soh moved to the United States. He saw Japan as essentially a conduit for Western knowledge and ideas, but preferred to deal with what he saw as the source itself.\n\nIn 1885, early in his stay in America Soh worked part-time jobs. In 1886, Soh lived in Norristown, Pennsylvania, and attended the Harry Hillman Academy (Wilkes-Barre, PA) thanks to the help of John Welles Hollenback. He began to use the name \"Philip Jaisohn\" at that time. In 1890, he became the first Korean immigrant to acquire United States citizenship. He studied medicine at Columbia Medical College (now George Washington University School of Medicine & Health Sciences), and was the first Korean to receive an American medical degree in 1892.\n\nIn 1890, he became a U.S. citizen and from then he was often referred to by his American name Philip Jaisohn.\n\nIn 1894, he married Muriel Armstrong, a distant relative of the former president of the United States, James Buchanan, and daughter of George B. Armstrong, credited as the founder of the U.S. Railway Mail Service. They had two daughters, Stephanie and Muriel. In 1895, he was pardoned by the Joseon government, but he flatly refused to return.\n\nIn 1894, Japan defeated China in the First Sino-Japanese war which occurred on the Korean Peninsula. The Korean cabinet was filled with reformists. Along with these political changes, the treason of the Gapsin Coup was pardoned enabling Jaisohn's return in 1895. In December 1895, he went to Incheon. The Joseon government wanted to appoint him to Foreign Secretary but he refused to take the position. In Korea, he endeavored to politically educate people. Jaisohn published a newspaper, \"The Independent\" (독립신문), to transform the Korean population into an informed citizenry. He was the first to print his newspaper entirely in Hangul to extend readership to lower classes and women.\n\nIn the 1896 to 1898 Civil rights movement and suffrage movements. Soh's goal was to ensure that Korea would drift away from the Chinese sphere of influence but without falling too heavily under the influence of Russia or Japan. He was also behind the construction of the Independence Gate, which was initially meant to symbolize the end of Korea's ritual subordination to China. Apart from his journalistic and political activities, he delivered regular lectures on modern politics and the principles of democracy.\n\nHe promoted national independence as the principal political ideal and emphasized neutral diplomatic approaches to protect Korea from China, Russia and Japan. He also underscored the importance of public education, modernized industry and public hygiene. The Independence was particularly critical of misconduct by government officials, which caused strong reactions by the conservatives. Under the aegis of the Independence Club (), Jaisohn organized the All People's Congress, an open public forum to debate over political issues. The Congress was hailed by young reformers and began to establish nationwide chapters.\n\nIn November 1897, Soh enabled the construction of the Independence Gate (독립문;獨立門). At this time he also ended the policy of Yeongeunmun (영은문;迎恩門). Yeongeunmun was the Korean policy of welcoming the Chinese envoys, Yeongeun roughly translates from Korean to English as \"Welcome to beneficent Envoys of suzerain's.\"\n\nIn 1898, conservatives accused Jaisohn and the Club of seeking to replace the monarchy with a republic, and the Korean government requested Jaisohn to return to the US. After his return, the Korean government ordered the Club to disband and arrested 17 leaders including Rhee Syngman.\n\nIn April to August 1898, he accompanied an army to the Spanish–American War. In 1899 he found employment as clerk for the University of Pennsylvania Hospital.\n\nIn 1904, worked with Harold Deemer, who was a year younger, to create the \"Deemer and Jaisohn shop\". It was a stationery and printing industry store. In 1915, the shop became called the Philip Jaisohn Company, and specialized in the printing industry.\n\nIn the United States, Jaisohn conducted medical research at the University of Pennsylvania and later became a successful printer in Philadelphia. When he heard the news of the March 1st Movement (1919), a nationwide protest against Japanese rule in Korea, Jaisohn convened the \"First Korean Congress\", which was held in Philadelphia for three days. After the Congress, Jaisohn devoted his energies and private property to the freedom of Korea. He organized the League of Friends of Korea in 26 cities with the help of Rev. Floyd Tomkins, and established the \"Korean Information Bureau.\" He published a political journal \"Korea Review\" to inform the American public of the situation in Korea, and to persuade the U.S. government to support the freedom for Koreans.\n\nIn the 1920s, Soh, who had just turned 60, returned to research and spent his 60s and 70s working as a specialist doctor and micro-biologist, as well as occasionally publishing in peer-review academic journals.\n\nFive years later in 1924, Jaisohn went legally bankrupt due to his political engagement and had to resume practicing medicine to make a living. At age 62, he became a student again at the University of Pennsylvania to renew his medical knowledge. After this, he published five research articles in the medical journals specializing in pathology. During World War II, he volunteered as a physical examination officer with the belief that the victory of the U.S. would bring freedom to Korea.\n\nJaisohn returned to Korea once again after Japan's defeat in World War II. The U.S. Army Military Government in control of the southern part of Korea invited him to serve as chief adviser. In December 1946, he was elected to the Interim Legislative Assembly (). In May 1945, liberal and moderate socialist intellectuals selected him as candidate for presidency, but he declined. When the date of the first presidential election was confirmed by the United Nations, Jaisohn was petitioned to run for presidency by 3,000 people including a young Kim Dae-jung, but he refused in the end.\n\nJaisohn felt that political unity was needed for a new nation despite his uneasy relationship with the president elect Syngman Rhee. He decided to return to the United States in 1948. Suffering a heart attack a week earlier on December 29, Jaisohn died on January 5, 1951 during the Korean War, just two days before his 87th birthday.\n\nHis body was cremated, and his ashes were buried in Bib church in Philadelphia. In 1994 his remains were repatriated to South Korea. His ashes were buried in the National Cemetery of South Korea in Seoul.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Philip Jaisohn Memorial House in Media, Pennsylvania was Dr. Jaisohn's home from 1925 to 1951. This house was bought when Dr. Jaisohn was in great financial difficulties, while his house in Philadelphia was pledged due to his devotion to the Korean independence. His Media home was acquired by the Philip Jaisohn Memorial Foundation in 1987 and opened to the public in 1990. Since then, the Jaisohn House has been visited by many students and politicians from Korea such as former South Korean president and Nobel peace laureate Kim Dae-jung as well as Korean American immigrants and community neighbors.\n\nOn May 21, 1994, the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission and the Philip Jaisohn Memorial Foundation dedicated a historical marker for Dr. Jaisohn, stating:\n\nAmerican-educated medical doctor who sowed seeds of democracy in Korea, published its first modern newspaper (1896-98), and popularized its written language. The first Korean to earn a Western medical degree and become a U.S. citizen. He worked for Korean independence during the Japanese occupation, 1910-45. Chief Advisor to the U.S. Military Government in Korea, 1947-1948. This was his home for 25 years.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "307680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=307680", "title": "Superior (hierarchy)", "text": "Superior (hierarchy)\n\nIn a hierarchy or tree structure of any kind, a superior is an individual or position at a higher level in the hierarchy than another (a \"subordinate\" or \"inferior\"), and thus closer to the apex. In business, superiors are people who are supervisors and in the military, superiors are people who are higher in the chain of command (superior officer). Superiors are given, sometimes supreme, authority over others under their command. When an order is given, one must follow that order and obey it or punishment may be issued.\n\nA is the person to whom a cleric is immediately responsible under canon law. For monks, it would be the abbot (or the abbess for nuns); for friars, it would be the prior, or, for Franciscans, the guardian (\"custos\"), for Minims, the corrector; for diocesan priests, it would be the local bishop. In religious orders with a hierarchy above the local community, there will also be superiors general and possibly provincial superiors above the local abbot, prior, or mother superior. The priest in charge a mission \"sui iuris\" is called an ecclesiastical superior.\n\n"}
{"id": "47847759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47847759", "title": "Targeting Ultra Poor (TUP) Program - The Graduation Approach", "text": "Targeting Ultra Poor (TUP) Program - The Graduation Approach\n\nChallenging the Frontiers of Poverty Reduction:Targeting the Ultra Poor (CFPR-TUP) project was initiated by BRAC, a Bangladesh-based development organisation in 2002. The ultra poor are a group of people who eat below 80% of their energy requirements despite spending at least 80% of income on food. In Bangladesh, they constitute the poorest 17.5 percent of the population. These people suffer from chronic hunger and malnutrition, have inadequate shelter, are more prone to disease, deprived of education and more vulnerable to recurring natural disasters.The CFPR-TUP programme is aimed at households which are too poor to access the benefits from development interventions such as microfinance and assists them to access mainstream development services. The program costs around 35 million USD a year.\n\nThe graduation approach is a two year program aimed at lifting the ultra poor into a better economic and social condition. It starts with the allocation of an asset such as cattle or poultry, as well as training on how to raise them. It also includes food or cash support alongside, partly to reduce the need to eat or sell the asset in a financial crisis. There's a savings account, health education and regular coaching to reinforce skills and build confidence.The indicators are positive changes in food security, diversified income sources, asset ownership, improved housing, school enrolment and social acceptance. After completion of the two-year grant phase, the ultra poor members participate in BRAC’s mainstream development programmes. \n\nA study released in 2010 reported that more than 95% of participants left the category of ultra-poverty over the 24 months, and stayed out of it four years later. A randomised control trial released in 2013 showed sustained shifts in value of livestock, self-employment, earnings and self-reported happiness – long after the period of support had ended. \n\nSince its inception the program has covered 1.6 million ultra poor households in 44 districts of Bangladesh. Outside Bangladesh, Consultative Group for Assisting Poor (CGAP), a World Bank organisation, and the Ford Foundation have studied the TUP program, adapted in eight countries in Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and elsewhere in Asia, explicitly modelled on BRAC's. After 1.5 to 3 years, 75% to 98% of participants meet \"graduation\" criteria. Nicholas Kristof mentioned in a \"New York Times\" column that this model is the mechanism of hope that helps people make headway out of poverty. BRAC is ready to open-source their approach, both to help other countries achieve similar results and also to refine their own methodology. \n\nThe first step is targeting or finding the people who needs help the most. This is done through what BRAC calls \"participatory wealth ranking\" – gathering about 40 to 50 people in the village or community to determine the poorest. Program staff follow up with in-person visits to potential participants, using a set of standard criteria – number of meals a day, whether their roof is thatched or tin, and so on – to determine who qualifies. Senior managers then verify the selection. It's a mix of bottom-up participatory involvement and top-down supervision, intended to ensure that no ultra-poor are left out, and funds are not wasted on those who could benefit from a less costly intervention.\n\nThe next step is transfer of assets such as a goat, chickens or a cow, a cash and food stipend to give the beneficiary breathing room while learning a new trade or access a savings account. Training in basic literacy and numeracy like writing their names and basic preventative and curative healthcare takes place alongside. Others in the community, including village elites, are brought into the process. Coaching or \"hand-holding\", in the form of weekly visits from program staff to overcome challenges, is essential in the approach.\n\nContinuing to save after the end of the program can help beneficiaries/participants protect assets and accumulate money for future investments or emergencies. A shared goal across the pilots was that by the end of the program, members had access to a wide range of financial services. The Graduation Approach is not a short-term escape from extreme poverty but instead seeks to equip participants with the tools, livelihoods, and self-confidence to sustain themselves when the program is over.\n\n"}
{"id": "36970579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36970579", "title": "The Occupy Handbook", "text": "The Occupy Handbook\n\nThe Occupy Handbook is a collection of essays about Occupy Wall Street the larger international Occupy movement. Contributors include economists and political commentators such as: Paul Krugman, Robin Wells, Michael Lewis, Robert Reich, Amy Goodman, David Graeber, Peter Diamond, Emmanuel Saez, Ariel Dorfman, Barbara Ehrenreich, Jeff Sachs, and Nouriel Roubini, among others. The essays analyze the movement's origins and questions about the role of the movement in contemporary society. The book attempts to capture the Occupy Wall Street phenomenon, giving readers an on-the-scene feel for the movement, as well as considering the lasting changes wrought and recommending reform. The editor of \"The Occupy Handbook\", Janet Byrne, has previously written of the Occupy movement for the Huffington Post.\n\nWriting for the New Yorker magazine, John Cassidy writes, \"I thoroughly recommend 'The Occupy Handbook'.\" Kirkus Reviews describes it as \"A succinct body of essays by knowledgeable, sympathetic observers on the grievances of the Occupy Wall Street protestors.\" John Gapper of the Financial Times calls it, \"A rewarding collection of essays on the meaning of Occupy Wall Street concentrates its ire on the US political system\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35522586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35522586", "title": "United States cyber-diplomacy", "text": "United States cyber-diplomacy\n\nCyber-diplomacy is the evolution of public diplomacy to include and use the new platforms of communication in the 21st century. As explained by Jan Melissen in \"The New Public Diplomacy: Soft Power in International Relations\", cyber-diplomacy “links the impact of innovations in communication and information technology to diplomacy.” Cyber-diplomacy is also known as or is part of public diplomacy 2.0, EDiplomacy, and virtual diplomacy. Cyber-diplomacy has as its underpinnings that, “it recognizes that new communication technologies offer new opportunities to interact with a wider public by adopting a network approach and making the most of an increasingly multicentric global, interdependent system.” \n\nU.S. cyber-diplomacy is led by the United States Department of State and is a new tool in fulfilling the U.S. public diplomacy mission. As stated by Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs, the mission of American public diplomacy “is to support the achievement of U.S. foreign policy goals and objectives, advance national interests, and enhance national security by informing and influencing foreign publics and by expanding and strengthening the relationship between the people and government of the United States and citizens of the rest of the world.” Even though the United States had engaged in cyber-diplomacy under President George W. Bush in 2006, the United States officially launched its cyber-diplomacy campaign in 2009. The development of cyber-diplomacy by the United States is a response to the shifts in international relations by extending the reach of U.S. diplomacy beyond government-to-government communications. The U.S. is adapting its statecraft by reshaping its diplomatic agendas to meet old challenges in new ways and by utilizing America's innovation. Cyber-Diplomacy as identified by the United States Department of State, “encompasses a wide range of U.S. interests in cyberspace. These include not only cyber security and Internet freedom, but also Internet governance, military uses of the Internet, innovation and economic growth. Cyberspace has also become a foreign policy issue in multilateral fora, in our bilateral relationships, and in our relationships with industry and civil society.”\n\nCyber-diplomacy was embraced by the United States Department of State in the commencement of 21st century statecraft, utilizing YouTube, multimedia and social media to reach publics, in 2009. The U.S. Department of State's official explanation of it is, “The complementing of traditional foreign policy tools with newly innovated and adapted instruments of statecraft that fully leverages the networks, technologies, and demographics of our interconnected world.” “The First Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review of 2010”, explains 21st century diplomacy as the United States’ adaptation to an increasingly varied set of actors who influence national debates, such as an increasing amount of states capable of acting on their own diplomatic agendas, corporations, transnational networks, foundations, NGOs, religious groups and citizens themselves. The incentive to create and embrace U.S. cyber-diplomacy and 21st century statecraft is to connect the private and civic sectors with U.S. foreign policy efforts by utilizing new resources; connection technologies and expanding, facilitating, and streamlining our public-private partnership process. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton explained the concept as \"We're working to leverage the power and potential in what I call 21st century statecraft. Part of our approach is to embrace new tools, like using cell phones for mobile banking or to monitor elections. But we're also reaching to the people behind these tools, the innovators and entrepreneurs themselves.\" The efforts by the U.S. Department of State in cyber-diplomacy has led the State Department to currently have 230 Facebook pages, 80 Twitter accounts, 55 channels on YouTube and 40 accounts on Flickr. The State Department has also founded many cyber-diplomacy programs and initiatives. Some of these programs are Dipnote, Digital Outreach Team, Opinion Space, Democracy Dialogues and Civil Society 2.0.\n\nU.S. public diplomacy is led by the Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs, currently Tara D. Sonenshine. Sonenshine assumed the position of Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs on April 5, 2012. The duty and responsibility of the Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs is to \"lead America's public diplomacy outreach, which includes communications with international audiences, cultural programming, academic grants, educational exchanges, international visitor programs, and U.S. government efforts to confront ideological support for terrorism.\" The Under Secretary also manages the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, Public Affairs, the Bureau of International Information Programs, and participates in foreign policy development.\n\nDipNote was created in 2007 and opened a platform for the U.S. State Department to engage foreign publics through blogs. It encourages open conversation in regards to the United States and public diplomacy. Part of the philosophy of DipNote is to accept negative and positive feedback from participants and in doing so assess the temperature of foreign publics. DipNote was reformed in 2009 with the launch of 21st Century Statecraft by the State Department. This expanded the role and platform of engagement by DipNote personnel. One of the new purposes of DipNote is to inform people about the travels, speeches, and efforts of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, State Department employees and diplomats around the world. Another new purpose of DipNote is the establishment of communication, creation of narrative and the translation of President Obama's speeches. DipNote has expanded its dissemination of information to include translations of President Obama's speeches, into different languages and then share the president's speeches through several Twitter accounts. The goal is to make America's public diplomacy more accessible to people who do not speak English and receive their information through the internet. \n\nOne of the undertakings by the Digital Outreach Team occurred on June 4, 2009, when President Barack Obama gave a speech addressing the Muslim world, from Cairo, Egypt. President Obama's speech was an attempt to foster change in the perception of the United States. His speech discussed the new beginnings and relations between the West and the Middle East. Between June and December in 2009, the DOT opened thirty discussion threads on nineteen Arab and Russian centered websites, where the primary conversation was Obama's Cairo speech.\n\nAnother example of a DOT initiative is the narrative of Gibran Kahlil Gibran. One of the DOT members followed the life and work of Gibran Kahlil Gibran, a Lebanese-American poet and artist. This project creates a narrative of an American who is of Middle Eastern descent and his life within the United States. Former Under Secretary of State, Charlotte Beers, stated, the use of “virtual reality to see a small town in America, to have an interview, to listen to someone recite the Declaration of Independence…that’s the goal,” of creating an American narrative. The hope is that exporting the American narrative, such as the one of Mr. Gibran's, makes American values and ideals tangible.\n\nOpinion Space is a website created by the United States Department of State and the University of California at Berkeley Center for New Media. It allows people to express and register their views on a number of topics, from politics to economics. When participants register their view, they are informed where they stand on a particular issue, relative to the other participants. On February 15, 2011, Opinion Space 3.0 was launched by the U.S. Department of State. Opinion Space 3.0 uses a gaming program that incorporates methods from polling, collaborative filtering and multidimensional visualization. The program then organizes the information and displays the feedback in patterns and trends as they develop. It invites anyone from around the world to participate in discussion and evaluate the responses of others.\n\nDemocracy Dialogues is a multilingual interactive website established by the U.S. Department of State in 2006. It is a platform to encourage shared discussion about democratic principles with people outside of the United States. The web based discussion focuses on the principles of democracy and every two months a new democratic theme is featured.\n\nThe Virtual Student Foreign Service was launched in 2009 by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Virtual Student Foreign Service partners American students with our global diplomatic missions, to conduct outreach online while harnessing the knowledge of U.S. citizens. Responsibilities of the selected students for the Virtual Student Foreign Service are:\n\nCivil Society 2.0 is connecting the information and communications technology community with civil society organizations around the world and provides civil society organizations with access to the latest technologies. According to the U.S. Department of State, it is a program that supports civil society efforts worldwide because civil society helps to make communities more prosperous and stable. Civil Society 2.0 uses text messages, websites, and social media platforms to connect the numerous participants. The State Department sends technologists to specific regions so they can teach the local population how to use technology and therefore establish a technological society. The technologists will specifically educate the people on:\n\nVirtual Presence Post is a tool which helps a U.S. Embassy's Principal Officer utilize available diplomatic outreach instruments. VPPs are usually composed of one or two officers that manage an internet site explaining U.S. policy, providing updates and news on U.S. relations with the host country and are accessible for dialogue. The communication of the VPP includes topics such as, travel, programs, media, and technology, in an effort to improve U.S. engagement with specific communities where the U.S. has no physical diplomatic facilities. Currently, there are 43 active VPPs around the world, some of them are in Zhengzhou, China, Chittagong, Bangladesh, the Seychelles, San Marino, Somalia, and Gaza.\n\nThe X-Life Games was launched in June 2008. The Games were developed by MetroStar Systems along with Neal Hallford, J.R. Register, and Ghafur Remtulla and funded by the U.S. Department of State. X-Life Games is an English-based mobile game that fosters cultural exchange between Arabic, Persian, and English speaking cultures with a focus upon the current technological savvy generation. The expectation of the mobile game is to \"portray American culture and convey fundamental values that are present in American culture, such as; tolerance, freedom, and the respect for cultural and religious differences.\" The launch of X-Life Games is to encourage cultural bridging, while decaying barriers that impede mutual understanding, through a video game. Cultural bridging embodied in a video game reaches across all generations, especially the current one being raised in an ever sophisticated and technological world. In participating, the users begin by choosing an X-Life character. They then learn and use skills acquired through everyday experiences. Each phase of the game allows the user to apply those skills to improve themselves and their world. Ali Reza Manouchehri, Chief Executive Officer of MetroStar Systems, discussing this video-game, stated the “Middle East and the Persian Gulf youth will have the opportunity to experience the dynamism and vitality of American life. X-Life projects the fundamental values that Americans cherish: tolerance, freedom, and respect for cultural and religious differences.” \n\n"}
{"id": "33902210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33902210", "title": "Visual Collaborative", "text": "Visual Collaborative\n\nVisual Collaborative is a U.S based festival platform that showcases and develops artists of various genres. Receiving acclaim internationally, it was featured by \"The Guardian Nigeria\" which described the work as constantly redefining the concept of popups via its postdigital gatherings, the platform organizes exhibitions that feature \"symposium\" style talks, digital art, technology and live music performances. \n\nIn 2006, Visual Collaborative was founded by multidisciplinary designer and technologist Ade Abayomi Olufeko, to bridge the gap between creative professionals and their commercial value. Since originating in Minneapolis, Visual Collaborative has showcased collections and talks in Minneapolis, Miami, New York City, \"The Mission\" San Francisco California, Columbia Maryland, and Washington D.C.\n\nIn 2007, the group's inaugural event featured international artists Miko Simmons and Linda Zacks, took place at the original Center for Independent Artists, inside \"Instituto de Cultura y Educacion\" located in a community of South Minneapolis. In 2011, in Washington D.C., Visual Collaborative produced an exhibition featuring emerging and established artists with a collection described as vibrant new art. In 2015, the platform collaborated with the Arts District Hyattsville Master Association in Hyattsville, utilizing \"the Lustine Center\" to host a group exhibition themed Vanity.\n\nThe Visual Collaborative exhibitions occur as Disruptive innovation in a traveling formatted pattern. They have been held in reputable galleries, lofts \nor donated spaces by private owners who include art enthusiasts and lifelong patrons of the arts. They are executed through joint ventures with other arts and humanities organisations which have in the past included \"Arts District\" Hyattsville Master Association in Prince George’s County and Voices for Children Miami.\n\nVisual Collaborative is a platform that represents artists and works of diverse backgrounds. Its past emerging and notable features include: Aniekan Udofia, Tiphanie Brooke, Dawn Okoro, Danielle Eckhardt, Eugene Ankomah and music recording artist TolumiDE.\n\nIn 2008, Visual Collaborative adopted an outreach model, partnering with Voices for Children Miami-Dade, a Children Foundation that raises funds for abused and neglected children in Miami-Dade County—The organisation gave their proceeds to charity to help build the bridge between the community and the arts. \n\nEvents held in U.S Cities:\n\n"}
{"id": "1437725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1437725", "title": "Xenelasia", "text": "Xenelasia\n\nXenelasia (, ) was the practice in ancient Doric Crete and Lacedæmonia of expelling foreigners deemed injurious to the public welfare. The isolationist customs of Sparta (which included discouraging Spartan citizens from traveling outside the commonwealth) may also sometimes be referred to as xenelasia. The majority of ancient Greek authors attribute the codification of this practice to Lycurgus.\n\n\"Xenelasia\" is most famously associated with Sparta. Lacedæmonian magistrates had the authorization to expel any person who posed a threat to public order and morals, for they considered their state a family writ large. While foreigners were allowed in for religious festivals and missions of state, they were generally not permitted to live in the environs, though special exceptions might be given to friends and allies, (laconophiles) like Xenophon. Xenophon himself wrote about \"xenelasia\" in his \"Constitution of the Spartans:\" \"There were alien acts in former days, and to live abroad was illegal; and I have no doubt that the purpose of these regulations was to keep the citizens from being demoralized by contact with foreigners; and now I have no doubt that the fixed ambition of those who are thought to be first among them is to live to their dying day as governors in a foreign land.\"Thucydides wrote a speech attributed to Pericles in his \"History of the Peloponnesian War\", which portrays \"xenelasia\" as a characteristic of Athens' enemies during the Peloponnesian War. These opponents included the Lacedæmonians: \"If we turn to our military policy, there also we differ from antagonists. We throw open our city to the world, and never by alien acts (ξενηλασίαις / \"xenelasiais)\" exclude foreigners from any opportunity of learning or observing, although the eyes of an enemy may occasionally profit by our liberality; trusting less in system and policy than to the native spirit of our citizens...\" Concerning \"xenelasia\" in Lacedæmonia, Plutarch wrote: \n\nProf. Karl Otfried Müller writes that the Doric ideal of a \"certain loftiness and severity of character\" was preserved in Sparta only because it succeeded in keeping herself in an isolated situation. He argues these laws were intended to preserve the native character of the Doric tribe from any taint of foreign influence. However, Müller wrote in the context of a racial, mythographic view of history - they were the invading and occupying force in Lacedæmonia, holding down a population of servile peasants, called Helots, by iron military rule, and so, themselves, in the strict sense, \"xenoi\". \n\nNiccolò Machiavelli believed that Sparta lasted a long time because \"she did not permit strangers to establish themselves in the republic\" and remarked that the Roman Republic took the opposite course of Sparta spelling her doom. It is to be noted, however, that the population of Sparta was in irreversible decline from the time of its victory in the Peloponnesian Wars, falling from 9,000 Spartiates in 640 to 1,000 after the battle of Leucra in 371, due to the refusal of miscegenation, selective infanticide and the desertion of patrician scions to more attractive foreign parts. The Roman polis, in addition, is the one society in the ancient world which most modeled itself on the Spartan military ethos. \n\nIn Plato's \"Laws\", Clinias the Cretan remarks on Homer that \"…we Cretans are not much given to cultivating verse of alien origin.\"\n\nBecause Doric Corcyreans were active, industrious and enterprising, good sailors and active merchants, they had entirely lost the stability and noble features of the Doric character. Some said that they exceeded the Athenians in degradation and that even their dogs excelled in impudence.\nArgos was also a Doric state. It also lost its \"noble features of the Doric character\". \"Argos became such an unsettled state of public affairs, sycophancy and violence became prevalent:…\"\n\nTarentum was also a Doric state, a colony in Magna Graecia. \"At a subsequent period, however, as there was no longer men of this stamp (noble character) to carry on the government, and the corruption of manners, caused by the natural fruitfulness of the country, and restrained by no strict laws, was continually on the increase, the state of Tarentum was so entirely changed, that every trace of the ancient Doric character, and particularly of the mother-country, disappeared; hence, although externally powerful and wealthy, it was from its real internal debility, in the end, necessarily overthrown, particularly when the insolent violence of the people became a fresh source of weakness.\"\n\nThe brief admiration the Athenians and their allies may have had for Spartan Doric discipline and virtue born of cultural isolation, must be viewed in the context of their early alliance against the Persians, later to be turned to hatred and rebellion in the outcome of the Pelopennesian War and their loss of democracy and autonomy. But well before events turned the other city states against the dominant Sparta, Plato deploys the term Xenelasia as synonymous with barbarity, an entirely uncivilised condition. He has this to say in the Laws [XII, 950a-b]: \"Not to welcome any visitor and never to go out [of your homeland] is, besides, something quite impossible and would, at the same time, be seen in the eyes of other men as a savage and unsocial form of behaviour. It would bring upon you the odious name of someone who hunts down foreigners (xenolasiais) and would earn you the reputation of having rough and brutal manners\". op cit.\n\n\n"}
