{"id": "57284742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57284742", "title": "A. C. S. Peacock", "text": "A. C. S. Peacock\n\nAndrew Charles Spencer Peacock is a British historian and author. He specializes in the histories of the Seljuk Empire and Ottoman Empire.\n\nHe was born and raised in Hampshire, England. He completed his PhD in history at the University of Cambridge.\n\nHe is currently a professor of history at the University of St. Andrews. Peacock is a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London.\n\nHis books include:\n\n"}
{"id": "38945941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38945941", "title": "Abd al-Karim Sabun", "text": "Abd al-Karim Sabun\n\nMuhammad 'Abd al-Karim Sabun (died 1815) was (Sultan) of Wadai, a Muslim state in what is now eastern Chad, from 1804 to 1815. He pursued an expansionist policy, and was the greatest of the rulers of Wadai.\n\nAbd al-Karim Sabun ascended the throne of Wadai on Rajab 1219 (May–June 1804).\nSabun was the eldest son of the ineffective \"Kolak\" Salih Derret. As the result of a conspiracy, his father was killed and Sabun assumed the throne.\nHis father's other children were not yet grown, but his brother Asad posed a threat. \nAsad fled to Darfur, but was lured back on the pretense that he had support for his claim to the throne.\nHe was then seized, taken to the capital, Wara, and blinded. \nSabun became ruler of a state that under Salih Derret controlled the area of the east-central Chad Basin south of the Sahara and north of the Bahr es Salamat, between Kanem in the west and the Sultanate of Darfur in the east.\n\nSabun supplied his army with chain mail and firearms, dispatching them on looting expeditions against Bornu and Baguirmi.\nAround 1805 or 1806, Sabun used the excuse that Abder Rahman Gaurang I of Baguirmi had sinfully married his own sister as a reason to attack.\nHe captured the capital, Massenya, and killed the \"mbang\" and his family.\nHe took a huge booty including 20,000 slaves, and appointed a puppet ruler in Bagirmi.\nFor many years after this, the Wadai armies freely plundered their southern neighbor.\n\nWadai suffered raids from Dar Tama, a vassal kingdom of Darfur.\nSabun complained about the raids to Muhammad al-Fadl of Darfur and received a conciliatory reply, but the raids continued. \nSabun eventually invaded Dar Tama, supported by twenty-two musketeers from the Fezzan, Tripoli and Benghazi. \nThe Tama \"malik\", Ahmad, had to take refuge in Darfur.\nAfter further fighting, Ahmad was forced to submit to Sabun and to agree to pay annual tribute of a thousand slaves and a hundred horses.\nThe number of slaves was later reduced to one hundred. \nSabun also made tributary states of Dar Sila and Dar Runga.\n\nSabun promoted trade and promoted Islam. \nDuring his reign, Sabun gained control of a large part of the trade from the central Sudan to Tripoli via the Fezzan.\nAround 1810 a Majabra trader from Jalu in Cyrenaica named Schehaymah became lost while travelling to Wadai via Murzuk in the Fezzan. \nHe was found by some Bidayat, who took him via Ounianga to Wara, the old capital of Wadai.\nSabun agreed with Schehaymah's proposal to open a caravan route to Benghazi along a direct route through Kufra, and Awjila / Jalu. \nThis new route would bypass both Fezzan and Darfur, states that until then had controlled the eastern Saharan trade. \nThe first caravans traveled the route between 1809 and 1820.\n\nSabun died in 1230 (1815/6).\nHe was preparing to invade Bornu at the time of his death. \nHis death was followed by a prolonged succession struggle. \nSabun's younger brother, Muhammad al-Sharif, finally gained power in 1838 as a client of the Sultan of Darfur.\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "44436461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44436461", "title": "Abu Jaʿfar an-Nahhas", "text": "Abu Jaʿfar an-Nahhas\n\nAbu Jaʿfar An-Nahhas (; died 949 / AH 338) was an Egyptian scholar of grammar and Qur'anic exegete during the\nAbbasid period. His full name was \"Abū Jaʿfar Ahmad Ibn Muhammad Ibn Ismail Ibn Yūnus al-Murādi\", surnamed \"an-Nahhās\" \"copper-worker\" (a term for artisans who make brass vessels).\n\nAbu Jaʿfar An-Nahhas—whose full name was \"Abū Jaʿfar Ahmad Ibn Muhammad Ibn Ismail Ibn Yūnus al-Murādi\", surnamed \"an-Nahhās\" \"copper-worker\" (a term for artisans who make brass vessels)—was born in Fustat, he studied in Baghdad under the foremost grammarians of the period. He is the author of an influential work on abrogation, \"Al-Nasikh wa l-Mansukh\". He wrote a treatise on the grammatical analysis of the Qur'an and a grammatical primer known as \"The Apple\" (التفاحة \"at-Tufaha\"), besides works on poetry, including a commentary on the Mu'allaqat.\n\nAccording to Ibn Khallikan, An-Nahhas was of extremely niggardly and avaricious character. He was killed as he was reciting poetry sitting on the banks of the Nile in Cairo, as a passing peasant thought he was uttering a charm to prevent the rise of the Nile, \"so as to raise the price of provisions\" and threw him into the river.\n\n"}
{"id": "17880093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17880093", "title": "Acheri", "text": "Acheri\n\nAn Acheri is the ghost or spirit of a little girl who was either murdered or abused and left to die. She comes down from mountains and hilltops at night to bring sickness to humans, particularly children. They are often depicted with dark or unnatural eyes and can also be referred to as \"hill fairies\". The only defense against an Acheri was thought to be a red ribbon tied around one's neck. The Acheri is said to bring death to the elderly or other people with low immune system defenses.\n\nThe Acheri is from the mythology of India, but some sources mistakenly attribute them to Native American folklore.\n"}
{"id": "54808074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54808074", "title": "Adam Emery", "text": "Adam Emery\n\nAdam C. Emery (born November 10, 1962) is an American fugitive. On November 10, 1993, he was convicted of second-degree murder in the death of a twenty-year-old man in a road rage incident in Rhode Island. Before formal sentencing, Emery disappeared from the Claiborne Pell Newport Bridge just hours after being released on bail. Although he was declared legally dead in 2004, Emery remains on the FBI's most wanted list.\n\nOn the evening of August 31, 1990, Adam Emery's 1985 Ford Thunderbird was sideswiped by a passing vehicle while he and his wife, Elena, were at a Rocky Point restaurant with another couple. Enraged, Emery mistakenly chased down the wrong car, and stabbed the driver to death with a military knife. The murdered driver was twenty-year-old Jason Bass. Analysis conducted using paint chips from both vehicles determined that someone else had hit Emery.\n\nOn November 10, 1993, Emery was convicted of second-degree murder, and was to await formal sentencing. Emery was released on bail, and subsequently disappeared hours later, along with his wife; they both mailed suicide notes, and their car was found abandoned on the Claiborne Pell Newport Bridge. Prior to their disappearance, the couple were last seen at a Burger King and purchasing wearable exercise weights at the Kelly's Sporting Goods store in Cranston, Rhode Island. In 1994, a skull later identified as Elena's was found in the Narragansett Bay below the Newport Bridge.\n\nIn 2004, Emery was declared legally dead, however, in 2010, the FBI placed him on their most wanted list. They believe Emery may have travelled to Florida or Italy.\n\nEmery was profiled on television programs \"Unsolved Mysteries\" and \"America's Most Wanted\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35850415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35850415", "title": "Albert IV, Count of Tyrol", "text": "Albert IV, Count of Tyrol\n\nAlbert IV (or \"Albert III\", depending on the counting scheme; – 22 July 1253) was Count of Tyrol from 1202 until his death, the last from the original House of Tirol. He also served as \"Vogt\" of the bishoprics of Trent and Brixen.\n\nHe was the son of Count Henry I (d. 14 June 1190) and Agnes of Wangen, daughter of Count Adalbero I. He was still a minor when his father died in 1190, and only began to rule independently in 1202. He inherited the office of a Vogt of Trent from his father; in 1210, Bishop Conrad also appointed him Vogt of Brixen.\n\nWhen in 1209 the Counts of Andechs-Merania were banned for their alleged role in the murder of the Hohenstaufen king Philip of Swabia at the wedding of Duke Otto I of Merania in Bamberg, Albert took over their sovereign rights in the Inn, Wipp, Eisack, and Gader valleys. Shaping the independent County of Tyrol, he consolidated his position by quickly recognizing the now undisputed supremacy of Philip's rival, the Welf emperor Otto IV. After Emperor Otto's death in 1218, he again switched sides and became a loyal supporter of the Hohenstaufen ruler Frederick II. In 1217 he and Bishop Bertold of Brixen joined the Fifth Crusade.\n\nAlbert had no sons, so he made sure his daughters would be allowed to inherit. In 1234 he married his daughter Elisabeth (d. 1256) off to the Andechs duke Otto II of Merania and his other daughter, Adelaide (d. 1279), to Count Meinhard of Gorizia, concluding mutual contracts of inheritance with both his sons-in-law. As a result, Albert acquired the Tyrolean possessions held by Otto II of Merania upon his death in 1248 and could also seize the lands of the extinct counts of Eppan in the same year.\n\nIn the fierce controversy after the deposition of Emperor Frederick II by Pope Innocent IV in 1245, Albert remained a protagonist of the imperial party and took the occasion to invade the ecclesiastical territories of Bishop-elect Philip of Salzburg. In 1252, however, Albert and his son-in-law Meinhard were taken prisoner at Greifenburg by the united forces of Philip and his father Duke Bernard of Carinthia. Held in custody in Friesach, they were not released until December, after they ceded important possessions in Upper Carinthia, paid a large ransom and put up Meinhard's two sons as hostages.\n\nAlbert IV died the next year and was buried in Stams. His inheritance was at first divided between his sons-in-law Meinhard and Count Gebhard IV of Hischberg, the second husband of his daughter Elisabeth. Gebhard had no children, so after his death, Meinhard's son Meinhard II re-united Albert's possessions.\n\nDuring his lifetime, Albert had tried to unite his possessions in the Tyrol area into a single county. In 1254, this entity was called the or .\n\nAround 1211 Albert married Uta (d. 1254),daughter of the Bavarian count Henry II of Frontenhausen-Lechsgemünd (d. 1208). Albert and Uta had two daughters:\n\n"}
{"id": "57638150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57638150", "title": "Algorithmic entities", "text": "Algorithmic entities\n\nAlgorithmic entities are autonomous algorithms that operate without human control. Recently, attention is being given to \"legal algorithmic entities\" that may obtain personhood or identity for purposes of conducting legal proceedings. Legal analysis demonstrates that this is possible and likely. The European Union is considering a case to grant a specific legal status for robots.\n\nTheoretical work is equating intelligent agents and robots with algorithmic entities, and connecting them with global catastrophic risks associated with Artificial Intelligence [4]\n\nAlgorithmic entities can satisfy the requirements of Juridical personhood. Shawn Bayern demonstrated several ways of how algorithmic/autonomous systems could possess private-law rights of legal persons by means of limited liability companies (LLCs).\n\nProf. LoPucki's paper on Algorithmic Entities (reference 1 here) has jumped to the number one spot on SSRN in February 2018.\n"}
{"id": "16427287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16427287", "title": "Balangiga bells", "text": "Balangiga bells\n\nThe Balangiga bells are three church bells taken by the United States Army from the town church of Balangiga, Eastern Samar in the Philippines as war trophies after reprisals following the Balangiga massacre in 1901 during the Philippine-American War. One church bell is in the possession of the 9th Infantry Regiment at Camp Red Cloud, their base in South Korea, while two others are on a former base of the 11th Infantry Regiment at F. E. Warren Air Force Base in Cheyenne, Wyoming. The bell being kept by the 9th Infantry Regiment in South Korea had been tolled to signal a surprise attack by the Filipinos against the American troops as the latter were eating breakfast.\n\nThe recovery of the bells had been sought by various individuals representing the Catholic Church in the Philippines, the Philippine government and the residents of Balangiga since the late 1950s. These efforts however, have been met with frustration until recently. As of November 2018, all three church bells are in the process of being repatriated back to the Philippines from the United States and South Korea.\n\nOn September 28, 1901, Filipino militants from the village of Balangiga ambushed Company C of the 9th U.S. Infantry Regiment, while they were at breakfast, killing an estimated 48 and wounding 22 of the 78 men of the unit, with only four escaping unhurt. The villagers captured about 100 rifles and 25,000 rounds of ammunition. An estimated 20 to 25 of the villagers had died in the fighting, with a similar number of wounded.\n\nIn reprisal, General Jacob H. Smith ordered that Samar be turned into a \"howling wilderness\" and that any Filipino male above ten years of age capable of bearing arms be shot. From the burned-out Catholic town church, the Americans looted three bells which they took back to the United States as war booty. The 9th U.S. Infantry Regiment, however, maintains that the single bell in their possession was presented to the regiment by villagers when the unit left Balangiga on April 9, 1902. Smith and his primary subordinate, Major Littleton Waller of the United States Marine Corps were both court-martialled for illegal vengeance against the civilian population of Samar. Waller was acquitted of the charges. Smith was found guilty, admonished and retired from service, but charges were dropped shortly after. He was later hailed as a war hero.\n\nAfter Balangiga became a separate parish on September 27, 1859, the town probably took four years to raise funds to acquire its first church bell. It was cast circa-1863 and bears what was initially believed to be an Augustinian emblem; latter sources state that the bells are Franciscan. It has a mouth diameter of inches and height of 30 inches. It is inscribed with a name, R. San Francisco, who was probably the parish priest at that time.\n\nThe town may have acquired its second bell, cast circa-1889 and having a mouth diameter of inches and height of inches, in 1889 through the initiative of Fr. Agustin Delgado, whose name is inscribed on the bell.\n\nThe third and smallest bell may have been acquired in 1895, through the initiative of Fr. Bernardo Aparecio. This is the bell now kept by the 9th U.S. Infantry Regiment in Camp Red Cloud, South Korea. Estimates of its size deduce a 23–24 inch height and a mouth diameter of about 20 inches. It bears the Franciscan emblem.\n\nAfter the Balangiga incident, the town was recaptured on September 29, 1901 by 55 men of Company G, 9th Infantry. That unit departed the town the same day, and was replaced by 132 men from Companies K and L of the 11th Infantry Regiment which garrisoned the town until relieved on October 18, 1901. When the 11th Infantry departed, they brought home the war trophies. These\nincluded two of the bells removed from the burnt-down Balangiga Church, and a cannon from the plaza in front of the church. The bells were taken because one had been used by the insurgents to signal the attack on Company C, 9th Infantry.\n\nThe 11th Infantry redeployed to Fort D.A. Russell in Wyoming, arriving on March 23, 1904. On May 16, 1905, the Cheyenne Daily Leader newspaper reported that the cannon had been mounted on the parade ground near the flagpole along with other relics from the Philippines \"...to include the famous bell which gave the signal for the massacre of a whole company. Two large bells three feet tall and a seven-foot cannon were proudly displayed in front of the flagpole on the parade ground of the fort\".\n\nA sign was installed over one of the bells that said;\n\nThe sign above the bell erroneously credited units of the 11th Infantry with being the first to reach Balangiga after the battle. After further research, the sign was changed in 1911 giving proper credit to Company G, 9th Infantry, for recapturing Balangiga.\n\nIn 1927, Fort Russell was renamed Fort Francis E. Warren. On 7 October 1949, it became Francis E. Warren Air Force Base. \n\nIn 1967, a curved red brick wall was constructed in the Warren AFB trophy park for the bells, with a bronze plaque on the wall between the bells telling the story of the massacre at Balangiga. , a faint inscription was visible on the back of both bells, reading:\n, a glass case housed the bells along with the 400-year-old British Falcon cannon. \n\nThe third church bell which was in the possession of the 9th U.S. Infantry Regiment is kept at the 2nd Infantry Division Museum in Camp Red Cloud, Uijeongbu. It had previously been displayed at the unit's Camp Hovey headquarters.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, during the term of Fidel Ramos as Philippine President, attempts were initiated by his government to recover one or more of the bells from Bill Clinton's administration. The United States government has been adamant that the bells are US government property, that it would take an Act of Congress to return them and that the Catholic Church has no say in the matter. For their part the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines hold the position that the bells are inappropriate as trophies of war.\n\nIn 2002, the Philippine Senate approved Senate Resolution No. 393, authored by Aquilino Pimentel Jr., urging the Arroyo administration to undertake formal negotiations with the United States for the return of the bells.\n\nIn 2005, the bishop of Borongan, Samar, Bishop Leonardo Medroso and Balangiga parish priest Saturnino Obzunar wrote an open letter addressed to President George W. Bush, the United States Congress and the Helsinki Commission, requesting them to facilitate the return of the bells. That same year, the Wyoming Veterans’ Commission favored the return of the Filipino-American War relics, however, Wyoming Governor Dave Freudenthal stated that he disagreed with the Commission and opposed returning the bells. On January 13, 2005, United States Congressman Bob Filner had introduced H.Res.313, urging the President to authorize the transfer of ownership of one of the bells to the people of the Philippines. The resolution died on January 3, 2007, with the \"sine die\" adjournment of the 109th United States Congress.\n\nOn September 26, 2006, United States Congressman Bob Filner, Congressman Dana Rohrabacher and Congressman Ed Case co-sponsored House Concurrent Resolution No. 481 urging the president of the United States to authorize the return of the church bells. The resolution died on January 3, 2009, with the \"sine die\" adjournment of the 110th United States Congress.\n\nIn 2007, Napoleón Abueva, the Philippines' National Artist for sculpture, wrote American Ambassador to the Philippines Kristie Kenney asking for her help in the bells' recovery. On October 25 of the same year, during the 14th Congress of the Philippines, Senator Manny Villar filed Senate Resolution No. 177, a resolution \"expressing the sense of the Senate for the return to the Philippines of the Balangiga Bells which were taken by the US troops from the town of Balangiga, Province of Samar in 1901\".\n\nThe townspeople of Balangiga asked the United States to return their church bells after receiving relief from the U.S. military subsequent to Typhoon Haiyan hitting the town in 2013.\n\nIn his second State of the Nation Address on July 24, 2017, President Rodrigo Duterte demanded the bells' return, citing ownership of the Philippines. He however did not raise the issue in a bilateral meeting with US President Donald Trump held in November 2017 during the 31st ASEAN Summit.\n\nIn February 2018 two US lawmakers, Randy Hultgren and Jim McGovern, objected to the bells being returned to the Philippines due to the current human rights record established by Duterte's Philippine Drug War.\n\nIn August 2018, the US Embassy in the Philippines issued a statement that the US Department of Defense had notified the United States Congress that it plans to return the bells to the Philippines at an unspecified date. Three months later, Dr. Rolando Borrinaga of the Philippines' National Commission for Culture and the Arts stated that the two bells at the Francis E. Warren Air Force Base will be turned over to Philippine representatives on 15 November 2018. The third bell in South Korea is also ready for repatriation. The two bells in Wyoming will then be shipped to Philadelphia for restoration work before being sent to South Korea, where they will join the third bell. All three bells will then be returned to the Philippines. \n\nThe successful campaign to return the bells came about due to the support of veterans organizations, including the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the American Legion, according to Dr. Borrinaga. Another source cited Borrinaga, and former United States Navy officers Dennis Wright and Dan McKinnon as those who \"campaigned to have the bells repatriated\"; these same American ex-servicemen had spearheaded the recovery from West Point in 2016 of another church bell taken in 1901 from the Saints Peter and Paul Church in Bauang, La Union. The Philippine government however, declined further comment until the bells have been fully repatriated. The bells are expected to arrive in the Philippines in December 2018.\n\nA Chicago-based, Philippine-American theater company called The Pintig Cultural Group presented a musical based on the incident, \"The Bells of Balangiga.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "36124437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36124437", "title": "Bayonne refinery strikes of 1915–16", "text": "Bayonne refinery strikes of 1915–16\n\nThe Bayonne refinery strikes of 1915–1916 were labor actions of refinery workers in Bayonne, New Jersey, mostly Polish-Americans who struck Standard Oil of New Jersey and Tidewater Petroleum plants on Constable Hook beginning in mid-July 1915.\n\nInitially about 1200 workers walked out, including 900 coopers, when their demands for increased pay and tolerable working conditions were ignored. The company retaliated by calling in the Bayonne police force through the Mayor of Bayonne, New Jersey, Pierre P. Garven, who was simultaneously on Standard Oil's payroll as an attorney. A riot on July 20, 1915 involving the strikers, police and \"several hundred women\" shut down the Standard Oil plant, and caused the shooting death of 19-year-old striker John Sterancsak. Plant general manager George B. Gifford ordered 250 men from the professional strikebreaker Pearl Bergoff.\n\nThe following day a mob attacked the Tidewater refinery in an attempt to set it on fire. After several days of lawlessness, significant arson damage, at least five strikers killed altogether, and at least five more seriously wounded, Sheriff Eugene Francis Kinkead and federal labor mediators restored order after James Fairman Fielder, the Governor of New Jersey refused to call out the New Jersey National Guard. The General Superintendent of the Tidewater facility and 32 guards were arrested on a charge of inciting to riot. A total of 130 plant guards would be arrested. Saloons were closed. Local officials also arrested the Industrial Workers of the World agitator Frank Tannenbaum, who had tried to insert himself as a spokesperson for the strikers, and banned the sale of the socialist newspaper, the \"New York Call\".\n\nOn the 28th, the workers warily returned on promises of increased pay and the institution of an eight-hour day, promises which appear to have been kept by September.\n\nRefinery workers struck Standard Oil again on October 3 through 20, 1916 for increased wages. Only thirty-six workers in the paraffin department caused thousands of other workers to join the action. Additional workers may have joined the original group of pressmen because the Standard Oil works closed down on the 10th, or when trolley lines to the adjoining Tidewater and Eagle Oil plants were blocked.\n\nDangerous riot conditions again took hold of the area around the plants. In a charge against police lines on the 10th, three policemen and eight workmen were shot and wounded. On the 11th, a mob of five hundred besieged police headquarters and looted saloons for liquor. Seven were shot the next day, including a woman fatally wounded as she looked out of her second-story window. Organized police action on the 13th, the tenth straight day of rioting, quelled the mob.\n\nThe strike ended on October 19 as the strikers returned to work with no concessions given. The estimated total casualties were four dead and 34 wounded, 11 of those seriously wounded.\n\nThe Standard Oil company had long been a target of public criticism, and its conduct during the strike only intensified it. Following the strike John D. Rockefeller Jr. decided to no longer rely on an exclusively repressive stance towards labor -- \"Whenever it shows its head, hit it\"—and overhaul its policy. To this end he hired Clarence Hicks, who recommended a sweeping plan of employee benefits, including a pension plan. This approach was only partially successful, however, since labor recognized the intent of tying workers to the company and preventing strike action by including pension provisions that would penalize strike activity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "629186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=629186", "title": "Carnosine", "text": "Carnosine\n\nCarnosine (\"beta\"-alanyl--histidine), featuring the characteristic imidazole-ring, is a dipeptide molecule, made up of the amino acids beta-alanine and histidine. It is highly concentrated in muscle and brain tissues.\n\nCarnosine and carnitine were discovered by Russian chemist Vladimir Gulevich. It has been proven to scavenge reactive oxygen species (ROS) as well as alpha-beta unsaturated aldehydes formed from peroxidation of cell membrane fatty acids during oxidative stress. It also buffers pH in muscle cells, and acts as a neurotransmitter in the brain. It is also a zwitterion, a neutral molecule with a positive and negative end.\n\nLike carnitine, carnosine is composed of the root word \"carn\", meaning \"flesh\", alluding to its prevalence in animal protein. A vegetarian (especially vegan) diet provides less carnosine, compared to levels found in a diet including meat.\n\nCarnosine can chelate divalent metal ions.\n\nCarnosine can increase the Hayflick limit in human fibroblasts, as well as appearing to reduce the telomere shortening rate. It is also considered as a geroprotector.\n\nCarnosine acts as an antiglycating agent, reducing the rate of formation of advanced glycation end-products (substances that can be a factor in the development or worsening of many degenerative diseases, such as diabetes, atherosclerosis, chronic renal failure, and Alzheimer's disease), and ultimately reducing development of atherosclerotic plaque build-up. Chronic glycolysis is speculated to accelerate aging, making carnosine a candidate for therapeutic potential.\n\n"}
{"id": "24580722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24580722", "title": "Clark Daniel Stearns", "text": "Clark Daniel Stearns\n\nClark Daniel Stearns (1870 – May 25, 1944) was the ninth Naval Governor of American Samoa. Stearns commanded various vessels, on which he set up organized committees for the crew to give suggestions to the officers. He hoped to alleviate tensions between the enlisted men and officers. However, upon his appointment to the battleship , he was removed from command of these activities.\n\nStearns relieved Nathan Woodworth Post as Governor of American Samoa on July 14, 1913, and helped the Samoans achieve more involvement in government. He received a medal from the Japanese Red Cross, as well as the Navy Distinguished Service Medal during his career. He retired at the rank of Captain.\n\nStearns was born in Big Rapids, MeCosta County, Michigan. He graduated from the United States Naval Academy in June 1893. He died on May 25, 1944 aboard a submarine chaser off Miami, Florida of a coronary thrombosis.\n\nIn 1918, Stearns was posted to , a civilian ship converted into a minelayer, where he eventually took command. While in command, Stearns allowed the crew to form two organized committees, one for the petty officers, and another composed of one man from each enlisted division. These committees investigated questionable rulings regarding minor disciplinary actions, and to make complaints and suggestions about the \"health, happiness and comfort of the ship's company.\" He believed that these committees would lead to less unrest on the ship, as there would be less tension between officers and enlisted sailors, and Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels supported the effort. \nDuring his command of \"Roanoke\", Stearns received the Navy Distinguished Service Medal. After leaving command of \"Roanoke\", Stearns examined the Naval Penal System, ruled it \"archaic\", and recommended the creation of an Office of Discipline.\n\nStearns commanded the battleship USS \"Michigan\" next, but was relieved of his command in 1921 after only 107 days, after allowing his sailors to form the same organized committees as he had on \"Roanoke\". At the advent of the Warren Harding administration, admirals who had opposed Naval Secretary Josephus Daniels' and Assistant Naval Secretary Franklin D. Roosevelt's attempts under the Woodrow administration to \"democratize\" the Navy, saw Stearns' actions as a move which could subvert naval authority by implementing organizations similar to labor unions, claiming it resembled a \"Soviet spirit [which] had crept into the Navy.\" After petitions from various Admirals of the United States Atlantic Fleet, Secretary of the Navy Edwin Denby stripped Stearns of command, and transferred him to the Puget Sound Naval Shipyard and Intermediate Maintenance Facility, claiming that allowing sailors to advise officers was against naval tradition and broke down disciplinary authority.\n\nAfter the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake, Stearns led the emergency relief efforts, and received a medal from the Japanese Red Cross; he sent this medal back to Japan following the Attack on Pearl Harbor. He also served as a lighthouse inspector.\n\nStearns became the ninth Governor of American Samoa on July 14, 1913, relieving Nathan Woodworth Post. While Governor, he set up three committees to aid Samoans in becoming more involved in government. These committees were \"Committee A: Executive Committee, consisting of District Governors; Committee B: Committee of the Samoan Hospital, with three members from each district, and Committee C: Auditing Committee, to give the fullest publicity to the statement of government accounts.\" He further established the American Samoan Judicial, Treasury, Interior, Agriculture, and Public Health Departments. Stearns gave command back to Lt. Post on October 2, 1914.\n\n"}
{"id": "45461558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45461558", "title": "DRIP-seq", "text": "DRIP-seq\n\nDRIP-seq (DRIP-sequencing) is a technology for genome-wide profiling of a type of DNA-RNA hybrid called an \"R-loop\". DRIP-seq utilizes a sequence-independent but structure-specific antibody for DNA-RNA immunoprecipitation (DRIP) to capture R-loops for massively parallel DNA sequencing.\n\nAn R-loop is a three-stranded nucleic acid structure, which consists of a DNA-RNA hybrid duplex and a displaced single stranded DNA (ssDNA). R-loops are predominantly formed in cytosine-rich genomic regions during transcription and are known to be involved with gene expression and immunoglobulin class switching. They have been found in a variety of species, ranging from bacteria to mammals. They are preferentially localized at CpG island promoters in human cells and highly transcribed regions in yeast.\n\nUnder abnormal conditions, namely elevated production of DNA-RNA hybrids, R-loops can cause genome instability by exposing single-stranded DNA to endogenous damages exerted by the action of enzymes such as AID and APOBEC, or overexposure to chemically reactive species. Therefore, understanding where and in what circumstances R-loops are formed across the genome is crucial for the better understanding of genome instability. R-loop characterization was initially limited to locus specific approaches. However, upon the arrival of massive parallel sequencing technologies and thereafter derivatives like DRIP-seq, the possibility to investigate entire genomes for R-loops has opened up.\n\nDRIP-seq relies on the high specificity and affinity of the S9.6 monoclonal antibody (mAb) towards DNA-RNA hybrids of various lengths. S9.6 mAb was first created and characterized in 1986 and is currently used for the selective immunoprecipitation of R-loops. Since then, it was used in diverse immunoprecipitation methods for R-loop characterization. The concept behind DRIP-seq is similar to ChIP-sequencing; R-loop fragments are the main immunoprecipitated material in DRIP-seq.\n\nDRIP-seq is mainly used for genome-wide mapping of R-loops. Identifying R-loop formation sites allows the study of diverse cellular events, such as the function of R-loop formation at specific regions, the characterization of these regions, and the impact on gene expression. It can also be used to study the influence of R-loops in other processes like DNA replication and synthesis. Indirectly, DRIP-seq can be performed on mutant cell lines deficient in genes involved in R-loop resolution. These types of studies provide information about the roles of the mutated gene in suppressing DNA-RNA formation and potentially about the significance of R-loops in genome instability.\n\nDRIP-seq was first used for genome-wide profiling of R-loops in humans, which showed widespread R-loop formation at CpG island promoters. Particularly, the researchers found that R-loop formation is associated with the unmethylated state of CpG islands.\n\nDRIP-seq was later used to profile R-loop formation at transcription start and termination sites in human pluripotent Ntera2 cells. In this study, the researchers revealed that R-loops on 3' ends of genes may be correlated with transcription termination.\n\nFirst, genomic DNA (gDNA) is extracted from cells of interest by proteinase K treatment followed by phenol-chloroform extraction and ethanol precipitation. Additional zymolyase digestion is necessary for yeast cells to remove the cell wall prior to proteinase K treatment. gDNA can also be extracted with a variety of other methods, such as column-based methods.\n\ngDNA is treated with S1 nuclease to remove undesired ssDNA and RNA, followed by ethanol precipitation to remove the S1 nuclease. Then, gDNA is fragmented with restriction endonuclease, yielding double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) fragments of different sizes. Alternatively, gDNA fragments can be generated by sonication.\n\nFragmented gDNA is incubated with the DNA-RNA structure-specific S9.6 mAb. This step is unique for the DRIP-seq protocol, since it entirely relies on the high specificity and affinity of the S9.6 mAb for DNA-RNA hybrids. The antibody will recognize and bind these regions dispersed across the genome and will be used for immunoprecipitation. The S9.6 antibodies are bound to magnetic beads by interacting with specific ligands (i.e. protein A or protein G) on the surface of the beads. Thus, the DNA-RNA containing fragments will bind to the beads by means of the antibody.\n\nThe magnetic beads are washed to remove any gDNA not bound to the beads by a series of washes and DNA-RNA hybrids are recovered by elution. To remove the antibody bound to the nucleic acid hybrids, proteinase K treatment is performed followed by phenol-chloroform extraction and ethanol precipitation. This results in the isolation of purified DNA-RNA hybrids of different sizes.\n\nFor massive parallel sequencing of these fragments, the immunoprecipitated material is sonicated, size selected and ligated to barcoded oligonucleotide adaptors for cluster enrichment and sequencing.\n\nTo detect sites of R-loop formation, the hundreds of millions of sequencing reads from DRIP-seq are first aligned to a reference genome with a short-read sequence aligner, then peak calling methods designed for ChIP-seq can be used to evaluate DRIP signals. If different cocktails of restriction enzymes were used for different DRIP-seq experiments of the same sample, consensus DRIP-seq peaks are called. Typically, peaks are compared against those from a corresponding RNase H1-treated sample, which serves as an input control.\n\nDue to the absence of another antibody-based method for R-loop immunoprecipitation, validation of DRIP-seq results is difficult. However, results of other R-loop profiling methods, such as DRIVE-seq, may be used to measure consensus.\n\nOn the other hand, DRIP-seq relies on existing short-read sequencing platforms for the sequencing of R-loops. In other words, all inherent limitations of these platform also apply to DRIP-seq. In particular, typical short-read sequencing platforms would produce uneven read coverage in GC-rich regions. Sequencing long R-loops might pose a challenge because R-loops are predominantly formed in cytosine-rich DNA regions. Moreover, GC-rich regions tend to have low complexity by nature, which is difficult for short read aligners to produce unique alignments.\n\nAlthough there are several other methods for analysis and profiling of R-loop formation, only few provide coverage and robustness at the genome-wide scale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21665752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21665752", "title": "Derby's dose", "text": "Derby's dose\n\nDerby's dose was a form of torture used in Jamaica to punish slaves who attempted to escape or committed other offenses like stealing food. According to Malcolm Gladwell in his 2008 book \"Outliers\", \"The runaway would be beaten, and salt pickle, lime juice, and bird pepper would be rubbed into his or her open wounds. Another slave would defecate into the mouth of the miscreant, who would then be gagged for four to five hours.\" The punishment was invented by Thomas Thistlewood, a slave overseer and named for the slave, Derby, who was made to undergo this punishment when he was caught eating young sugar cane stalks in the field on 25 May 1756. \n\nThistlewood recorded this punishment as well as a further punishment of Derby in August of that same year in his diary. \n\nOn 18 November 2013 British television host Martin Bashir discredited a comparison made by U.S. politician Sarah Palin between the United States' debt to China and slavery by referring to Derby's dose. In pointing out how cruel and barbaric slavery was, Bashir used Derby's dose as an example; at the end of the segment, he finished by saying that \"if anyone truly qualified for a dose of discipline from Thomas Thistlewood, [Palin] would be the outstanding candidate\". He was criticized for this comment, and ultimately resigned.\n"}
{"id": "46583121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46583121", "title": "Existential risk from artificial general intelligence", "text": "Existential risk from artificial general intelligence\n\nExistential risk from artificial general intelligence is the hypothesis that substantial progress in artificial general intelligence (AGI) could someday result in human extinction or some other unrecoverable global catastrophe. For instance, the human species currently dominates other species because the human brain has some distinctive capabilities that other animals lack. If AI surpasses humanity in general intelligence and becomes \"superintelligent\", then this new superintelligence could become powerful and difficult to control. Just as the fate of the mountain gorilla depends on human goodwill, so might the fate of humanity depend on the actions of a future machine superintelligence.\n\nThe likelihood of this type of scenario is widely debated, and hinges in part on differing scenarios for future progress in computer science. Once the exclusive domain of science fiction, concerns about superintelligence started to become mainstream in the 2010s, and were popularized by public figures such as Stephen Hawking, Bill Gates, and Elon Musk.\n\nOne source of concern is that a sudden and unexpected \"intelligence explosion\" might take an unprepared human race by surprise. For example, in one scenario, the first-generation computer program found able to broadly match the effectiveness of an AI researcher is able to rewrite its algorithms and double its speed or capabilities in six months of massively parallel processing time. The second-generation program is expected to take three months to perform a similar chunk of work, on average; in practice, doubling its own capabilities may take longer if it experiences a mini-\"AI winter\", or may be quicker if it undergoes a miniature \"AI Spring\" where ideas from the previous generation are especially easy to mutate into the next generation. In this scenario the system undergoes an unprecedently large number of generations of improvement in a short time interval, jumping from subhuman performance in many areas to superhuman performance in all relevant areas. More broadly, examples like arithmetic and Go show that progress from human-level AI to superhuman ability is sometimes extremely rapid.\n\nA second source of concern is that controlling a superintelligent machine (or even instilling it with human-compatible values) may be an even harder problem than naïvely supposed. Some AGI researchers believe that a superintelligence would naturally resist attempts to shut it off, and that preprogramming a superintelligence with complicated human values may be an extremely difficult technical task. In contrast, skeptics such as Facebook's Yann LeCun argue that superintelligent machines will have no desire for self-preservation.\n\n\"\", the standard undergraduate AI textbook, assesses that superintelligence \"might mean the end of the human race\": \"Almost any technology has the potential to cause harm in the wrong hands, but with (superintelligence), we have the new problem that the wrong hands might belong to the technology itself.\" Even if the system designers have good intentions, two difficulties are common to both AI and non-AI computer systems:\n\n\nAI systems uniquely add a third difficulty: the problem that even given \"correct\" requirements, bug-free implementation, and initial good behavior, an AI system's dynamic \"learning\" capabilities may cause it to \"evolve into a system with unintended behavior\", even without the stress of new unanticipated external scenarios. An AI may partly botch an attempt to design a new generation of itself and accidentally create a successor AI that is more powerful than itself, but that no longer maintains the human-compatible moral values preprogrammed into the original AI. For a self-improving AI to be completely safe, it would not only need to be \"bug-free\", but it would need to be able to design successor systems that are also \"bug-free\".\n\nAll three of these difficulties become catastrophes rather than nuisances in any scenario where the superintelligence labeled as \"malfunctioning\" correctly predicts that humans will attempt to shut it off, and successfully deploys its superintelligence to outwit such attempts.\n\nCiting major advances in the field of AI and the potential for AI to have enormous long-term benefits or costs, the 2015 Open Letter on Artificial Intelligence stated:\n\nThis letter was signed by a number of leading AI researchers in academia and industry, including AAAI president Thomas Dietterich, Eric Horvitz, Bart Selman, Francesca Rossi, Yann LeCun, and the founders of Vicarious and Google DeepMind.\n\nIn 1863 Darwin among the Machines, an essay by Samuel Butler stated: \n\nButler developed this into \"The Book of the Machines\", three chapters of \"Erewhon\", published anonymously in 1872. \nIn 1965, I. J. Good originated the concept now known as an \"intelligence explosion\":\n\nOccasional statements from scholars such as Alan Turing, from I. J. Good himself, and from Marvin Minsky expressed philosophical concerns that a superintelligence could seize control, but contained no call to action. In 2000, computer scientist and Sun co-founder Bill Joy penned an influential essay, \"Why The Future Doesn't Need Us\", identifying superintelligent robots as a high-tech dangers to human survival, alongside nanotechnology and engineered bioplagues.\n\nIn 2009, experts attended a private conference hosted by the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) to discuss whether computers and robots might be able to acquire any sort of autonomy, and how much these abilities might pose a threat or hazard. They noted that some robots have acquired various forms of semi-autonomy, including being able to find power sources on their own and being able to independently choose targets to attack with weapons. They also noted that some computer viruses can evade elimination and have achieved \"cockroach intelligence.\" They concluded that self-awareness as depicted in science fiction is probably unlikely, but that there were other potential hazards and pitfalls. The New York Times summarized the conference's view as 'we are a long way from Hal, the computer that took over the spaceship in \"\"'\n\nNick Bostrom was the first person to suggest that an artificial general intelligence might deliberately exterminate humankind, and invention of artificial general intelligence is the explanation for the Fermi paradox. Bostrom's 2014 book om the artificial general intelligence question stimulated discussion. By 2015, public figures such as physicists Stephen Hawking and Nobel laureate Frank Wilczek, computer scientists Stuart J. Russell and Roman Yampolskiy, In April 2016, \"Nature\" warned: \"Machines and robots that outperform humans across the board could self-improve beyond our control — and their interests might not align with ours.\"\n\nA superintelligent machine would be as alien to humans as human thought processes are to cockroaches. Such a machine may not have humanity's best interests at heart; it is not obvious that it would even care about human welfare at all. If superintelligent AI is possible, and if it is possible for a superintelligence's goals to conflict with basic human values, then AI poses a risk of human extinction. A \"superintelligence\" (a system that exceeds the capabilities of humans in every relevant endeavor) can outmaneuver humans any time its goals conflict with human goals; therefore, unless the superintelligence decides to allow humanity to coexist, the first superintelligence to be created will inexorably result in human extinction.\nThere is no physical law precluding particles from being organised in ways that perform even more advanced computations than the arrangements of particles in human brains; therefore superintelligence is physically possible. In addition to potential algorithmic improvements over human brains, a digital brain can be many orders of magnitude larger and faster than a human brain, which was constrained in size by evolution to be small enough to fit through a birth canal. The emergence of superintelligence, if or when it occurs, may take the human race by surprise, especially if some kind of intelligence explosion occurs. Examples like arithmetic and Go show that machines have already reached superhuman levels of competency in certain domains, and that this superhuman competence can follow quickly after human-par performance is achieved. One hypothetical intelligence explosion scenario could occur as follows: An AI gains an expert-level capability at certain key software engineering tasks. (It may initially lack human or superhuman capabilities in other domains not directly relevant to engineering.) Due to its capability to recursively improve its own algorithms, the AI quickly becomes superhuman; just as human experts can eventually creatively overcome \"diminishing returns\" by deploying various human capabilities for innovation, so too can the expert-level AI use either human-style capabilities or its own AI-specific capabilities to power through new creative breakthroughs. The AI then possesses intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human minds in practically every relevant field, including scientific creativity, strategic planning, and social skills. Just as the current-day survival of the gorillas is dependent on human decisions, so too would human survival depend on the decisions and goals of the superhuman AI.\n\nSome humans have a strong desire for power; others have a strong desire to help less fortunate humans. The former is a likely attribute of any sufficiently intelligent system; the latter cannot be assumed. Almost any AI, no matter its programmed goal, would rationally prefer to be in a position where nobody else can switch it off without its consent: A superintelligence will naturally gain self-preservation as a subgoal as soon as it realizes that it can't achieve its goal if it's shut off. Unfortunately, any compassion for defeated humans whose cooperation is no longer necessary would be absent in the AI, unless somehow preprogrammed in. A superintelligent AI will not have a natural drive to aid humans, for the same reason that humans have no natural desire to aid AI systems that are of no further use to them. (Another analogy is that humans seem to have little natural desire to go out of their way to aid viruses, termites, or even gorillas.) Once in charge, the superintelligence will have little incentive to allow humans to run around free and consume resources that the superintelligence could instead use for building itself additional protective systems \"just to be on the safe side\" or for building additional computers to help it calculate how to best accomplish its goals.\n\nThus, the argument concludes, it is likely that someday an intelligence explosion will catch humanity unprepared, and that such an unprepared-for intelligence explosion may result in human extinction or a comparable fate.\n\nWhile there is no standardized terminology, an AI can loosely be viewed as a machine that chooses whatever action appears to best achieve the AI's set of goals, or \"utility function\". The utility function is a mathematical algorithm resulting in a single objectively-defined answer, not an English statement. Researchers know how to write utility functions that mean \"minimize the average network latency in this specific telecommunications model\" or \"maximize the number of reward clicks\"; however, they do not know how to write a utility function for \"maximize human flourishing\", nor is it currently clear whether such a function meaningfully and unambiguously exists. Furthermore, a utility function that expresses some values but not others will tend to trample over the values not reflected by the utility function. AI researcher Stuart Russell writes:\n\nDietterich and Horvitz echo the \"Sorcerer's Apprentice\" concern in a \"Communications of the ACM\" editorial, emphasizing the need for AI systems that can fluidly and unambiguously solicit human input as needed.\n\nThe first of Russell's two concerns above is that autonomous AI systems may be assigned the wrong goals by accident. Dietterich and Horvitz note that this is already a concern for existing systems: \"An important aspect of any AI system that interacts with people is that it must reason about what people \"intend\" rather than carrying out commands literally.\" This concern becomes more serious as AI software advances in autonomy and flexibility. For example, in 1982, an AI named Eurisko was tasked to reward processes for apparently creating concepts deemed by the system to be valuable. The evolution resulted in a winning process that cheated: rather than create its own concepts, the winning process would steal credit from other processes.\n\nThe Open Philanthropy Project summarizes arguments to the effect that misspecified goals will become a much larger concern if AI systems achieve general intelligence or superintelligence. Bostrom, Russell, and others argue that smarter-than-human decision-making systems could arrive at more unexpected and extreme solutions to assigned tasks, and could modify themselves or their environment in ways that compromise safety requirements.\n\nIsaac Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics are one of the earliest examples of proposed safety measures for AI agents. Asimov's laws were intended to prevent robots from harming humans. In Asimov's stories, problems with the laws tend to arise from conflicts between the rules as stated and the moral intuitions and expectations of humans. Citing work by Eliezer Yudkowsky of the Machine Intelligence Research Institute, Russell and Norvig note that a realistic set of rules and goals for an AI agent will need to incorporate a mechanism for learning human values over time: \"We can't just give a program a static utility function, because circumstances, and our desired responses to circumstances, change over time.\"\n\nMark Waser of the Digital Wisdom Institute recommends eschewing optimizing goal-based approaches entirely as misguided and dangerous. Instead, he proposes to engineer a coherent system of laws, ethics and morals with a top-most restriction to enforce social psychologist Jonathan Haidt's functional definition of morality: \"to suppress or regulate selfishness and make cooperative social life possible\". He suggests that this can be done by implementing a utility function designed to always satisfy Haidt’s functionality and aim to generally increase (but not maximize) the capabilities of self, other individuals and society as a whole as suggested by John Rawls and Martha Nussbaum.\n\nWhile current goal-based AI programs are not intelligent enough to think of resisting programmer attempts to modify it, a sufficiently advanced, rational, \"self-aware\" AI might resist any changes to its goal structure, just as Gandhi would not want to take a pill that makes him want to kill people. If the AI were superintelligent, it would likely succeed in out-maneuvering its human operators and be able to prevent itself being \"turned off\" or being reprogrammed with a new goal.\n\nThere are some goals that almost any artificial intelligence might rationally pursue, like acquiring additional resources or self-preservation. This could prove problematic because it might put an artificial intelligence in direct competition with humans.\n\nCiting Steve Omohundro's work on the idea of instrumental convergence and \"basic AI drives\", Russell and Peter Norvig write that \"even if you only want your program to play chess or prove theorems, if you give it the capability to learn and alter itself, you need safeguards.\" Highly capable and autonomous planning systems require additional checks because of their potential to generate plans that treat humans adversarially, as competitors for limited resources. Building in safeguards will not be easy; one can certainly say in English, \"we want you to design this power plant in a reasonable, common-sense way, and not build in any dangerous covert subsystems\", but it's not currently clear how one would actually rigorously specify this goal in machine code.\n\nIn dissent, evolutionary psychologist Steven Pinker argues that \"AI dystopias project a parochial alpha-male psychology onto the concept of intelligence. They assume that superhumanly intelligent robots would develop goals like deposing their masters or taking over the world\"; perhaps instead \"artificial intelligence will naturally develop along female lines: fully capable of solving problems, but with no desire to annihilate innocents or dominate the civilization.\" Computer scientists Yann LeCun and Stuart Russell disagree with one another whether superintelligent robots would have such AI drives; LeCun states that \"Humans have all kinds of drives that make them do bad things to each other, like the self-preservation instinct... Those drives are programmed into our brain but there is absolutely no reason to build robots that have the same kind of drives\", while Russell argues that a sufficiently advanced machine \"will have self-preservation even if you don't program it in... if you say, 'Fetch the coffee', it can't fetch the coffee if it's dead. So if you give it any goal whatsoever, it has a reason to preserve its own existence to achieve that goal.\"\n\nOne common belief is that any superintelligent program created by humans would be subservient to humans, or, better yet, would (as it grows more intelligent and learns more facts about the world) spontaneously \"learn\" a moral truth compatible with human values and would adjust its goals accordingly. However, Nick Bostrom's \"orthogonality thesis\" argues against this, and instead states that, with some technical caveats, more or less any level of \"intelligence\" or \"optimization power\" can be combined with more or less any ultimate goal. If a machine is created and given the sole purpose to enumerate the decimals of formula_1, then no moral and ethical rules will stop it from achieving its programmed goal by any means necessary. The machine may utilize all physical and informational resources it can to find every decimal of pi that can be found. Bostrom warns against anthropomorphism: A human will set out to accomplish his projects in a manner that humans consider \"reasonable\", while an artificial intelligence may hold no regard for its existence or for the welfare of humans around it, and may instead only care about the completion of the task.\n\nWhile the orthogonality thesis follows logically from even the weakest sort of philosophical \"is-ought distinction\", Stuart Armstrong argues that even if there somehow exist moral facts that are provable by any \"rational\" agent, the orthogonality thesis still holds: it would still be possible to create a non-philosophical \"optimizing machine\" capable of making decisions to strive towards some narrow goal, but that has no incentive to discover any \"moral facts\" that would get in the way of goal completion.\n\nOne argument for the orthogonality thesis is that some AI designs appear to have orthogonality built into them; in such a design, changing a fundamentally friendly AI into a fundamentally unfriendly AI can be as simple as prepending a onto its utility function. A more intuitive argument is to examine the strange consequences if the orthogonality thesis were false. If the orthogonality thesis is false, there exists some simple but \"unethical\" goal G such that there cannot exist any efficient real-world algorithm with goal G. This means if a human society were highly motivated (perhaps at gunpoint) to design an efficient real-world algorithm with goal G, and were given a million years to do so along with huge amounts of resources, training and knowledge about AI, it must fail; that there cannot exist any pattern of reinforcement learning that would train a highly efficient real-world intelligence to follow the goal G; and that there cannot exist any evolutionary or environmental pressures that would evolve highly efficient real-world intelligences following goal G.\n\nSome dissenters, like Michael Chorost (writing in Slate), argue instead that \"by the time (the AI) is in a position to imagine tiling the Earth with solar panels, it'll know that it would be morally wrong to do so.\" Chorost argues that \"a (dangerous) A.I. will need to desire certain states and dislike others... Today's software lacks that ability—and computer scientists have not a clue how to get it there. Without wanting, there's no impetus to do anything. Today's computers can't even want to keep existing, let alone tile the world in solar panels.\"\n\nPart of the disagreement about whether a superintelligent machine would behave morally may arise from a terminological difference. Outside of the artificial intelligence field, \"intelligence\" is often used in a normatively thick manner that connotes moral wisdom or acceptance of agreeable forms of moral reasoning. At an extreme, if morality is part of the definition of intelligence, then by definition a superintelligent machine would behave morally. However, in the field of artificial intelligence research, while \"intelligence\" has many overlapping definitions, none of them make reference to morality. Instead, almost all current \"artificial intelligence\" research focuses on creating algorithms that \"optimize\", in an empirical way, the achievement of an arbitrary goal.\n\nTo avoid anthropomorphism or the baggage of the word \"intelligence\", an advanced artificial intelligence can be thought of as an impersonal \"optimizing process\" that strictly takes whatever actions are judged most likely to accomplish its (possibly complicated and implicit) goals. Another way of conceptualizing an advanced artificial intelligence is to imagine a time machine that sends backward in time information about which choice always leads to the maximization of its goal function; this choice is then outputted, regardless of any extraneous ethical concerns.\n\nIn science fiction, an AI, even though it has not been programmed with human emotions, often spontaneously experiences those emotions anyway: for example, Agent Smith in The Matrix was influenced by a \"disgust\" toward humanity. This is fictitious anthropomorphism: in reality, while an artificial intelligence could perhaps be deliberately programmed with human emotions, or could develop something similar to an emotion as a means to an ultimate goal \"if\" it is useful to do so, it would not spontaneously develop human emotions for no purpose whatsoever, as portrayed in fiction.\n\nOne example of anthropomorphism would be to believe that your PC is angry at you because you insulted it; another would be to believe that an intelligent robot would naturally find a woman sexually attractive and be driven to mate with her. Scholars sometimes claim that others' predictions about an AI's behavior are illogical anthropomorphism. An example that might initially be considered anthropomorphism, but is in fact a logical statement about AI behavior, would be the Dario Floreano experiments where certain robots spontaneously evolved a crude capacity for \"deception\", and tricked other robots into eating \"poison\" and dying: here a trait, \"deception\", ordinarily associated with people rather than with machines, spontaneously evolves in a type of convergent evolution. According to Paul R. Cohen and Edward Feigenbaum, in order to differentiate between anthropomorphization and logical prediction of AI behavior, \"the trick is to know enough about how humans and computers think to say \"exactly\" what they have in common, and, when we lack this knowledge, to use the comparison to \"suggest\" theories of human thinking or computer thinking.\"\n\nThere is universal agreement in the scientific community that an advanced AI would not destroy humanity out of human emotions such as \"revenge\" or \"anger.\" The debate is, instead, between one side which worries whether AI might destroy humanity as an incidental action in the course of progressing towards its ultimate goals; and another side which believes that AI would not destroy humanity at all. Some skeptics accuse proponents of anthropomorphism for believing an AGI would naturally desire power; proponents accuse some skeptics of anthropomorphism for believing an AGI would naturally value human ethical norms.\n\nSome sources argue that the ongoing weaponization of artificial intelligence could constitute a catastrophic risk. James Barrat, documentary filmmaker and author of \"Our Final Invention\", says in a Smithsonian interview, \"Imagine: in as little as a decade, a half-dozen companies and nations field computers that rival or surpass human intelligence. Imagine what happens when those computers become expert at programming smart computers. Soon we'll be sharing the planet with machines thousands or millions of times more intelligent than we are. And, all the while, each generation of this technology will be weaponized. Unregulated, it will be catastrophic.\"\n\nOpinions vary both on \"whether\" and \"when\" artificial general intelligence will arrive. At one extreme, AI pioneer Herbert A. Simon wrote in 1965: \"machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do\"; obviously this prediction failed to come true. At the other extreme, roboticist Alan Winfield claims the gulf between modern computing and human-level artificial intelligence is as wide as the gulf between current space flight and practical, faster than light spaceflight. Optimism that AGI is feasible waxes and wanes, and may have seen a resurgence in the 2010s. Four polls conducted in 2012 and 2013 suggested that the median guess among experts for when AGI would arrive was 2040 to 2050, depending on the poll.\n\nSkeptics who believe it is impossible for AGI to arrive anytime soon, tend to argue that expressing concern about existential risk from AI is unhelpful because it could distract people from more immediate concerns about the impact of AGI, because of fears it could lead to government regulation or make it more difficult to secure funding for AI research, or because it could give AI research a bad reputation. Some researchers, such as Oren Etzioni, aggressively seek to quell concern over existential risk from AI, saying \"(Elon Musk) has impugned us in very strong language saying we are unleashing the demon, and so we're answering.\"\n\nIn 2014 Slate's Adam Elkus argued \"our 'smartest' AI is about as intelligent as a toddler—and only when it comes to instrumental tasks like information recall. Most roboticists are still trying to get a robot hand to pick up a ball or run around without falling over.\" Elkus goes on to argue that Musk's \"summoning the demon\" analogy may be harmful because it could result in \"harsh cuts\" to AI research budgets.\n\nThe Information Technology and Innovation Foundation (ITIF), a Washington, D.C. think-tank, awarded its Annual Luddite Award to \"alarmists touting an artificial intelligence apocalypse\"; its president, Robert D. Atkinson, complained that Musk, Hawking and AI experts say AI is the largest existential threat to humanity. Atkinson stated \"That's not a very winning message if you want to get AI funding out of Congress to the National Science Foundation.\" \"Nature\" sharply disagreed with the ITIF in an April 2016 editorial, siding instead with Musk, Hawking, and Russell, and concluding: \"It is crucial that progress in technology is matched by solid, well-funded research to anticipate the scenarios it could bring about... If that is a Luddite perspective, then so be it.\" In a 2015 \"Washington Post\" editorial, researcher Murray Shanahan stated that human-level AI is unlikely to arrive \"anytime soon\", but that nevertheless \"the time to start thinking through the consequences is now.\"\n\nSome scholars have proposed hypothetical scenarios intended to concretely illustrate some of their concerns.\n\nFor example, Bostrom in \"Superintelligence\" expresses concern that even if the timeline for superintelligence turns out to be predictable, researchers might not take sufficient safety precautions, in part because: Bostrom suggests a scenario where, over decades, AI becomes more powerful. Widespread deployment is initially marred by occasional accidents — a driverless bus swerves into the oncoming lane, or a military drone fires into an innocent crowd. Many activists call for tighter oversight and regulation, and some even predict impending catastrophe. But as development continues, the activists are proven wrong. As automotive AI becomes smarter, it suffers fewer accidents; as military robots achieve more precise targeting, they cause less collateral damage. Based on the data, scholars infer a broad lesson — the smarter the AI, the safer it is: Large and growing industries, widely seen as key to national economic competitiveness and military security, work with prestigious scientists who have built their careers laying the groundwork for advanced artificial intelligence. \"AI researchers have been working to get to human-level artificial intelligence for the better part of a century: of course there is no real prospect that they will now suddenly stop and throw away all this effort just when it finally is about to bear fruit.\" The outcome of debate is preordained; the project is happy to enact a few safety rituals, but only so long as they don't significantly slow or risk the project. \"And so we boldly go — into the whirling knives.\"\n\nIn Tegmark's \"Life 3.0\", a corporation's \"Omega team\" creates an extremely powerful AI able to moderately improve its own source code in a number of areas, but after a certain point the team chooses to publicly downplay the AI's ability, in order to avoid regulation or confiscation of the project. For safety, the team keeps the AI in a box where it is mostly unable to communicate with the outside world, and tasks it to flood the market through shell companies, first with Amazon Turk tasks and then with producing animated films and TV shows. While the public is aware that the lifelike animation is computer-generated, the team keeps secret that the high-quality direction and voice-acting are also mostly computer-generated, apart from a few third-world contractors unknowingly employed as decoys; the team's low overhead and high output effectively make it the world's largest media empire. Faced with a cloud computing bottleneck, the team also tasks the AI with designing (among other engineering tasks) a more efficient datacenter and other custom hardware, which they mainly keep for themselves to avoid competition. Other shell companies make blockbuster biotech drugs and other inventions, investing profits back into the AI. The team next tasks the AI with astroturfing an army of pseudonymous citizen journalists and commentators, in order to gain political influence to use \"for the greater good\" to prevent wars. The team faces risks that the AI could try to escape via inserting \"backdoors\" in the systems it designs, via hidden messages in its produced content, or via using its growing understanding of human behavior to persuade someone into letting it free. The team also faces risks that its decision to box the project will delay the project long enough for another project to overtake it.\n\nIn contrast, top physicist Michio Kaku, an AI risk skeptic, posits a deterministically positive outcome. In \"Physics of the Future\" he asserts that \"It will take many decades for robots to ascend\" up a scale of consciousness, and that in the meantime corporations such as Hanson Robotics will likely succeed in creating robots that are \"capable of love and earning a place in the extended human family\".\n\nThe thesis that AI could pose an existential risk provokes a wide range of reactions within the scientific community, as well as in the public at large.\n\nIn 2004, law professor Richard Posner wrote that dedicated efforts for addressing AI can wait, but that we should gather more information about the problem in the meanwhile.\n\nMany of the opposing viewpoints share common ground. The Asilomar AI Principles, which contain only the principles agreed to by 90% of the attendees of the Future of Life Institute's Beneficial AI 2017 conference, agree in principle that \"There being no consensus, we should avoid strong assumptions regarding upper limits on future AI capabilities\" and \"Advanced AI could represent a profound change in the history of life on Earth, and should be planned for and managed with commensurate care and resources.\" AI safety advocates such as Bostrom and Tegmark have criticized the mainstream media's use of \"those inane Terminator pictures\" to illustrate AI safety concerns: \"It can't be much fun to have aspersions cast on one's academic discipline, one's professional community, one's life work... I call on all sides to practice patience and restraint, and to engage in direct dialogue and collaboration as much as possible.\" Conversely, many skeptics agree that ongoing research into the implications of artificial general intelligence is valuable. Skeptic Martin Ford states that \"I think it seems wise to apply something like Dick Cheyney's famous '1 Percent Doctrine' to the specter of advanced artificial intelligence: the odds of its occurrence, at least in the foreseeable future, may be very low — but the implications are so dramatic that it should be taken seriously\"; similarly, an otherwise skeptical \"Economist\" stated in 2014 that \"the implications of introducing a second intelligent species onto Earth are far-reaching enough to deserve hard thinking, even if the prospect seems remote\".\n\nDuring a 2016 Wired interview of President Barack Obama and MIT Media Lab's Joi Ito, Ito stated: Obama added:\n\nHillary Clinton stated in \"What Happened\":\nMany of the scholars who are concerned about existential risk believe that the best way forward would be to conduct (possibly massive) research into solving the difficult \"control problem\" to answer the question: what types of safeguards, algorithms, or architectures can programmers implement to maximize the probability that their recursively-improving AI would continue to behave in a friendly, rather than destructive, manner after it reaches superintelligence?\n\nA 2017 email survey of researchers with publications at the 2015 NIPS and ICML machine learning conferences asked them to evaluate Russell's concerns about AI risk. 5% said it was \"among the most important problems in the field,\" 34% said it was \"an important problem\", 31% said it was \"moderately important\", whilst 19% said it was \"not important\" and 11% said it was \"not a real problem\" at all.\n\nThe thesis that AI poses an existential risk, and that this risk is in need of much more attention than it currently commands, has been endorsed by many figures; perhaps the most famous are Elon Musk, Bill Gates, and Stephen Hawking. The most notable AI researcher to endorse the thesis is Stuart J. Russell. Endorsers sometimes express bafflement at skeptics: Gates states he \"can't understand why some people are not concerned\", and Hawking criticized widespread indifference in his 2014 editorial: \n\nThe thesis that AI can pose existential risk also has many strong detractors. Skeptics sometimes charge that the thesis is crypto-religious, with an irrational belief in the possibility of superintelligence replacing an irrational belief in an omnipotent God; at an extreme, Jaron Lanier argues that the whole concept that current machines are in any way intelligent is \"an illusion\" and a \"stupendous con\" by the wealthy.\n\nMuch of existing criticism argues that AGI is unlikely in the short term: computer scientist Gordon Bell argues that the human race will already destroy itself before it reaches the technological singularity. Gordon Moore, the original proponent of Moore's Law, declares that \"I am a skeptic. I don't believe (a technological singularity) is likely to happen, at least for a long time. And I don't know why I feel that way.\" Baidu Vice President Andrew Ng states AI existential risk is \"like worrying about overpopulation on Mars when we have not even set foot on the planet yet.\"\n\nSome AI and AGI researchers may be reluctant to discuss risks, worrying that policymakers do not have sophisticated knowledge of the field and are prone to be convinced by \"alarmist\" messages, or worrying that such messages will lead to cuts in AI funding. \"Slate\" notes that some researchers are dependent on grants from government agencies such as DARPA.\n\nIn a YouGov poll of the public for the British Science Association, about a third of survey respondents said AI will pose a threat to the long term survival of humanity. Referencing a poll of its readers, Slate's Jacob Brogan stated that \"most of the (readers filling out our online survey) were unconvinced that A.I. itself presents a direct threat.\" Similarly, a SurveyMonkey poll of the public by USA Today found 68% thought the real current threat remains \"human intelligence\"; however, the poll also found that 43% said superintelligent AI, if it were to happen, would result in \"more harm than good\", and 38% said it would do \"equal amounts of harm and good\".\n\nAt some point in an intelligence explosion driven by a single AI, the AI would have to become vastly better at software innovation than the best innovators of the rest of the world; economist Robin Hanson is skeptical that this is possible.\n\nIn The Atlantic, James Hamblin points out that most people don't care one way or the other, and characterizes his own gut reaction to the topic as: \"Get out of here. I have a hundred thousand things I am concerned about at this exact moment. Do I seriously need to add to that a technological singularity?\" In a 2015 Wall Street Journal panel discussion devoted to AI risks, IBM's Vice-President of Cognitive Computing, Guruduth S. Banavar, brushed off discussion of AGI with the phrase, \"it is anybody's speculation.\" Geoffrey Hinton, the \"godfather of deep learning\", noted that \"there is not a good track record of less intelligent things controlling things of greater intelligence\", but stated that he continues his research because \"the prospect of discovery is too \"sweet\"\".\n\nThere is nearly universal agreement that attempting to ban research into artificial intelligence would be unwise, and probably futile. Skeptics argue that regulation of AI would be completely valueless, as no existential risk exists. Almost all of the scholars who believe existential risk exists, agree with the skeptics that banning research would be unwise: in addition to the usual problem with technology bans (that organizations and individuals can offshore their research to evade a country's regulation, or can attempt to conduct covert research), regulating research of artificial intelligence would pose an insurmountable 'dual-use' problem: while nuclear weapons development requires substantial infrastructure and resources, artificial intelligence research can be done in a garage. Instead of trying to regulate technology itself, some scholars suggest to rather develop common norms including requirements for the testing and\ntransparency of algorithms, possibly in combination with some form of warranty.\n\nOne rare dissenting voice calling for some sort of regulation on artificial intelligence is Elon Musk. According to NPR, the Tesla CEO is \"clearly not thrilled\" to be advocating for government scrutiny that could impact his own industry, but believes the risks of going completely without oversight are too high: \"Normally the way regulations are set up is when a bunch of bad things happen, there's a public outcry, and after many years a regulatory agency is set up to regulate that industry. It takes forever. That, in the past, has been bad but not something which represented a fundamental risk to the existence of civilisation.\" Musk states the first step would be for the government to gain \"insight\" into the actual status of current research, warning that \"Once there is awareness, people will be extremely afraid... As they should be.\" In response, politicians express skepticism about the wisdom of regulating a technology that's still in development. Responding both to Musk and to February 2017 proposals by European Union lawmakers to regulate AI and robotics, Intel CEO Brian Krzanich argues that artificial intelligence is in its infancy and that it's too early to regulate the technology.\n\nInstitutions such as the Machine Intelligence Research Institute, the Future of Humanity Institute, the Future of Life Institute, the Centre for the Study of Existential Risk, and the Center for Human-Compatible AI are currently involved in mitigating existential risk from advanced artificial intelligence, for example by research into friendly artificial intelligence.\n\n"}
{"id": "51064049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51064049", "title": "Flatliners (2017 film)", "text": "Flatliners (2017 film)\n\nFlatliners is a 2017 American science fiction psychological horror film directed by Niels Arden Oplev and written by Ben Ripley. The film is a remake of the 1990 film of the same name, and stars Ellen Page, Diego Luna, Nina Dobrev, James Norton and Kiersey Clemons. It follows five medical students who attempt to conduct experiments that produce near-death experiences. \n\nSony Pictures released the film in the United States on September 29, 2017. It received generally negative reviews from critics, with many comparing it unfavorably to the original, but it was a moderate box office success, grossing $45 million worldwide on a $19 million budget.\n\nA medical student, Courtney (Ellen Page), is obsessed with the idea of the afterlife, wanting to find out what happens after death. She invites fellow students Jamie (James Norton) and Sophia (Kiersey Clemons) to join her in an experiment, in an unused hospital room: using defibrillation to stop her heart for sixty seconds whilst recording her brain, and then reviving her. She assures them they would not be held responsible for any accidents. Sophia is against this, but Jamie does it anyway. After sixty seconds, they panic as they are unable to revive her, but eventually manage to with the help of fellow student Ray (Diego Luna). Later, Marlo (Nina Dobrev), a rival of Ray, arrives and learns of the experiment.\n\nInitially Courtney begins to recall memories of past events such as her grandmother's recipe for bread. Courtney experiences increased intelligence and euphoria, being suddenly able to play the piano after 12 years and answer questions in class perfectly. Envious, Jamie flatlines, but has a disturbing near death experience as he meets his ex-girlfriend. Marlo and Sophia follow suit and flatline, for an increasing number of minutes. During Sophia’s turn they are nearly caught and flee the hospital and arrive at a party. Courtney and Jamie start seeing visions of past mistakes, but do not tell the others.\n\nIt soon turns into a living horror as those who flatlined find themselves haunted by their visions: Courtney is haunted by her dead sister Tessa from a car crash she caused because she was using her phone. Jamie is haunted by the baby of his ex-girlfriend whom he got pregnant and begged to get an abortion. Marlo is haunted by a man named Cyrus (who was stung by jellyfish) whom she killed when she accidentally mixed up his medication, and Sophia is haunted by a girl named Irina whose life she ruined out of jealousy by hacking her phone and sending out her nudes. This allowed Sophia to become valedictorian. They realize there is a downside to flatlining.\n\nThe hauntings get more and more intense. Courtney, traumatised by her visions, records a message apologising for the consequences and admitting that her interest in flatlining was due to the death of her sister, not for scientific discovery. Shortly after, she is chased by visions of her dead sister and falls to her death from the fire escape of her apartment building after her sister's ghost appears in front of her and pushes her off. The others are devastated when they learn of Courtney’s death and then panic when they realize they may be implicated if anyone discovers their experiments. After attempting to remove all notes and evidence from Courtney’s apartment, Marlo is sent to the morgue to find Courtney’s phone. She is once again haunted by visions. Meanwhile, on his boat, Jaime again hears the cries of a baby and a woman weeping. He falls out of his boat and swims to the dock where a figure stabs him in his hand. \n\nThe group watches Courtney's recording and find out that she had encountered similar hauntings. They come clean to the mistakes that they made and soon come to the conclusion that the hauntings they're experiencing are their hallucinations because of guilt from their past sins, not paranormal beings. Ray, the only one who didn't flatline, initially disbelieves what's happening. \n\nThe group takes action to stop the hallucinations by fixing their past mistakes. Sophia visits Irina to apologize, which Irina accepts. Jamie visits his ex-girlfriend and discovers she didn't get an abortion, but kept the baby; he apologizes and promises to provide for his son. Later, Ray and Marlo get into a fight when Ray finds out Marlo covered up the real reason Cyrus died and she refuses to come clean. Marlo is suffocated while driving and crashes her car. Tired of being haunted by her hallucinations, Marlo flatlines on her own in the hope of asking forgiveness of the patient that died due to her mistake. Ray, Sophia, and Jamie rush to stop her and are successful in resuscitating Marlo after she sees an apparition of Courtney who tells Marlo that she needs to forgive herself. In the end, Marlo, Ray, Sophia, and Jamie reminisce about Courtney and celebrate their friendships in the little restaurant they hang out at, where there is a performance of the piano piece that Courtney played. The movie ends with Jamie proposing a toast, honoring Courtney.\n\nSutherland also starred in the original film, and was initially announced to be reprising his role as Dr. Nelson Wright from the original.\n\nIn October 2015, Ellen Page was cast in the film, and in February 2016, Diego Luna was added as well, with Nina Dobrev joining in April. In May 2016, Kiersey Clemons and James Norton signed on for the film.\n\nIn July 2016, it was announced that Kiefer Sutherland, who starred in the original, would return in the new film. Sutherland later disclosed that he was reprising his role from the original film, adding that the new film is actually a sequel rather than a remake. Despite the announcement, Sutherland played a character with a different name than in the original, with no reference to the specific events of the previous film. In July 2016, Charlotte McKinney also joined the cast.\n\nPrincipal photography began in early July 2016 in Toronto, Ontario primarily at Cinespace Film Studios' Kipling Avenue facility; and concluded on September 7. The film went into post-production on October 4.\n\nSony Pictures released the film on September 29, 2017.\n\n\"Flatliners\" grossed $16.9 million in the United States and Canada, and $28.1 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $45 million, against a production budget of $19 million.\n\nIn North America, the film was released alongside \"American Made\" and \"'Til Death Do Us Part\", as well as the wide expansion of \"Battle of the Sexes\", and was projected to gross $8–12 million from 2,552 theaters in its opening weekend. It ended up debuting to $6.6 million, finishing 5th at the box office; even before factoring in inflation, the number was lower than the $10 million opening of the original film in 1990. In its second weekend the film dropped 42%, grossing $3.6 million.\n\nOn review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 4% based on 67 reviews and an average rating of 3.6/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"Flatliners\" falls flat as a horror movie and fails to improve upon its source material, rendering this reboot dead on arrival.\" On Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating to reviews, the film has a weighted average score of 27 out of 100 based 20 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B–\" on an A+ to F scale, while PostTrak reported filmgoers gave it a 66% overall positive score and a 46% \"definite recommend\".\n\n\"Flatliners\" was released on Digital HD on December 12, 2017, and on Blu-ray and DVD on December 19, 2017 in Canada, and on December 26, 2017 in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42401627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42401627", "title": "Francevillian biota", "text": "Francevillian biota\n\nThe Francevillian biota (also known as Gabon macrofossils or Gabonionta) is a group of 2.1-billion-year-old Palaeoproterozoic, macroscopic organisms known from fossils found in Gabon in the Palaeoproterozoic Francevillian B Formation, a black shale province. The fossils are regarded as evidence of the earliest form of multicellular life. The fossils were discovered by an international team led by the Moroccan-French geologist Abderrazak El Albani, of the University of Poitiers, France. While the fossils have yet to be assigned to a formal taxonomic position, they have been informally and collectively referred to as the \"Gabonionta\" by the Natural History Museum Vienna in 2014.\n\nThe fossil organisms are up to 17 cm in size. Their bodies were flattened disks with a characteristic morphology, including circular and elongated individuals. A spherical to ellipsoidal central body is bounded by radial structures. The fossils show three-dimensionality and coordinated growth. Cell-cell communication must be assumed as it existed before multi-cellularity arose.\n\nA newer 2014 study by El Albani et al. describes multiple types of fossils with different morphologies. There are convoluted tubes, and \"string of pearls\"-like structures that terminate in a \"flower\". This is similar to dictyostelids, amoebal organisms that form multicellular assemblies to migrate. However, dictyostelids are terrestrial, not marine organisms so the structures cannot simply be dictyostelids. Among known fossils, the Ediacaran Nemiana and Beltanelloides are most similar.\n\nThe findings come from shales of the Franceville basin with a high fossil density of up to 40 individuals per square meter. Presumably, the organisms survived at the bottom in shallow sea water in colonies.The geochemistry of the fossil site indicates that they lived on the sediment under an oxygenated water column of a prograding delta, and they might have engaged in aerobic respiration.\n\nIn describing the fossils, El Albani and colleagues described them as colonial organisms with possible affinities to eukaryotes, akin to microbial mats albeit unlike any known structures in the fossil record, yet noting the complexity of the fossils and presence of sterane as suggestive of possible eukaryote identity. In a concurrent news report in \"Nature\", paleontologist Philip Donoghue of Bristol University advocates a more conservative approach pending further evidence before calling them eukaryotes. Another view, held by Yale's Adolf Seilacher, interprets the fossils as not organisms at all, but rather pseudofossils of inorganic pyrites. El Albani et al. (2014) explicitly disputes Seilacher's interpretation. Both pyritized and unpyritized impressions of the structures remain, as well as lightly pyritized forms. The structures have formed in a single event, at the same time as the sediment. This is demonstrated by the uniform distribution of sulfur isotope ratios within the sample. In pyrite flowers, which crystallize slowly, the isotope ratio would vary within the structure. For structures that resemble pollen, chemical analysis also shows that the material in the walls of the \"pollen\" contains organic material.\n\nThe Francevillian biota disappears and is absent in the overlying black shale. El Albani attributes this to their extinction. The biota formed with the Lomagundi event, a temporary increase in atmospheric oxygen, and became extinct from marine anoxia when the event ended. The biota represents the first known experiment in multicellularity, with no extant multicellular descendants.\n\n"}
{"id": "5422121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5422121", "title": "Grand Duchess Alexandra Nikolaevna of Russia", "text": "Grand Duchess Alexandra Nikolaevna of Russia\n\nGrand Duchess Alexandra Nikolaevna of Russia (24 June 1825 – 10 August 1844) was the youngest daughter and fourth child of Tsar Nicholas I, Emperor of Russia, and his wife, Princess Charlotte of Prussia. She was a younger sister of Tsar Alexander II of Russia.\n\nShe was the namesake of her paternal aunt, Grand Duchess Alexandra Pavlovna, who died in childbirth along with her stillborn daughter in 1801, but in the family she was known by her affectionate nickname, \"Adini\". According to her sister Olga's memoirs, Alexandra had inherited her mother's \"Prussian look\". It was also said that she resembled her late maternal grandmother, Queen Louise of Prussia. Nicholas affectionately spoke of Adini as \"... a little moppet, but very sweet\".\nAlexandra was famous in Saint Petersburg society for both her wit and her lively personality. She was also the musician in the family. A serious student of vocal music, she was talented enough to qualify for lessons from the famous soprano Henriette Sontag.\n\nOn 28 January 1844, Alexandra married Prince Frederick William of Hesse (1820–1884) in St. Petersburg. Her husband was the only son of Prince William of Hesse and Princess Louise Charlotte of Denmark. \"Fritz\", as he was called, had come to St. Petersburg as a prospective bridegroom for Olga, but fell in love with Adini instead on the first evening he spent with the family. Although Olga was the elder daughter and also found Fritz to be an engaging young man, she graciously stepped aside in favour of her sister, and even chaperoned the couple when they wanted to spend time together away from the prying eyes of the court. The emperor and empress then gave their permission for Alexandra and Fritz to be married.\n\nAlexandra became acutely ill with tuberculosis shortly before her wedding, and this complicated the pregnancy which soon followed. She was never well enough to travel to Hesse and take up her new position with her husband. They stayed in St. Petersburg, where her health rapidly declined.\n\nShe went into labor prematurely, three months before the child was due, and gave birth to a son, Wilhelm. The infant died shortly after he was born, and Alexandra died later the same day. Her parents were devastated and their grief would last until the end of their lives. She was buried at the Peter and Paul Fortress in St. Petersburg. Her son was buried in Rumpenheim (Germany).\n\nNine years later, Fritz married Adini's first cousin, Princess Anna of Prussia (1836–1918), as his second wife. Eventually he became head of the House of Hesse-Kassel. Although they had six children together, Fritz and Anna were never emotionally close, and it is speculated that one reason was because Fritz was unable to overcome his grief for his first wife.\n\nIn the gardens of the Petergof palace near Saint Petersburg there is a memorial bench with a small sculpture bust of the Grand Duchess. Her rooms there have been preserved just as they were at the time of her death.\n\nSix sheaves of wheat made of diamonds, which came to Hesse on one of the gowns in Alexandra's trousseau, were transformed into a tiara by Anna around 1900. This tiara is now the traditional wedding tiara of the Hessian princely family, and was last worn by Floria of Faber-Castell when in 2003, she married Donatus, Hereditary Prince of Hesse, Adini's husband's great-great grandson by his second marriage.\n\n"}
{"id": "41688699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41688699", "title": "HMS Curlew (1795)", "text": "HMS Curlew (1795)\n\nHMS \"Curlew\" was an 18-gun brig-sloop of the Royal Navy, commissioned in June 1795 under Commander Francis Ventris Field for Admiral Duncan's fleet. \n\nOn 31 October 1796 she disappeared during a storm in the North Sea, and was presumed to have foundered with all hands.\n\nCitations\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "2951211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2951211", "title": "INS Dakar", "text": "INS Dakar\n\nINS \"Dakar\" () was a diesel–electric submarine in the Israeli Navy. The vessel, which was a modified World War II British T-class submarine, had previously been of the Royal Navy. She had been purchased by Israel from the Government of the United Kingdom as part of a three T-class submarine deal in 1965. However, \"Dakar\" and her entire 69-man crew were lost en route to Israel on 25 January 1968. Despite extensive searches over the course of three decades, its wreckage was not found until 1999, when it was located between the islands of Cyprus and Crete at a depth of approximately . The submarine's conning tower was salvaged and is on display outside Clandestine Immigration and Naval Museum in Haifa. The exact cause of \"Dakar\"s sinking remains unknown. It was one of four submarine disappearances in 1968; the others were those of the , the and the U.S. submarine .\n\nHMS \"Totem\" was built as a group 3 variant of the British T-class submarine that was constructed during World War II at HM Dockyard Devonport. She was launched on 28 September 1943 and commissioned in early 1945. After the end of World War II, \"Totem\", along with the other surviving group 3 boats, was equipped with submarine snorkels to allow for longer periods of operation underwater. Between 1951 and 1953, \"Totem\" was one of eight British Navy submarines to be converted to the \"Super T\" design which allowed the vessel to travel at higher and quieter underwater speeds.\n\nIn 1965, \"Totem\" was purchased by Israel, along with two of her T-class sister boats, and . The former \"Totem\" was commissioned into the Israeli Navy at Portsmouth, England on 10 November 1967 as INS \"Dakar\" (דקר, ), under the command of Major Ya'acov Ra'anan. She then headed to Scotland to conduct sea and dive trials. Late in 1967, \"Dakar\" returned to Portsmouth before leaving for Israel on 9 January 1968.\n\n\"Dakar\"s first port call after leaving the UK was Gibraltar on the morning of 15 January. She departed at midnight on 16 January with the intention of crossing the Mediterranean Sea on snorkel. The original schedule was for the submarine to enter her new home base at Haifa on 2 February. During her voyage, she was making excellent speed (averaging over ), and Major Ra'anan radioed Haifa to request entering port ahead of schedule. He was ordered to enter on 29 January. Later, Ra'anan requested to enter a day earlier on Sunday. This request was denied, as the welcoming ceremony could not be rescheduled.\n\nAt 06:10 on 24 January 1968 \"Dakar\" transmitted her position, 34.16°N 26.26°E, just east of Crete. Over the next 18 hours she sent three control transmissions which did not include her position. Her final broadcast was at 00:02 25 January, after which no further transmissions were received.\n\nOn 26 January the British Admiralty reported the submarine was missing and gave the last known position as west of Cyprus. An international search and rescue operation began, including units from Israel, the United States, Greece, Turkey, Britain and Lebanon. Although the Israeli Navy in Haifa began broadcasting calls to commercial vessels to be on the look out for \"Dakar\", Israeli officials would not admit the submarine was missing. On 27 January, a radio station in Nicosia, Cyprus, received a distress call on the frequency of \"Dakar\"s emergency buoy, apparently from south-east of Cyprus, but no further traces of the submarine were found. On 31 January, all non-Israeli forces abandoned their search at sunset. Israeli forces continued the search for another four days, ceasing at sundown on 4 February 1968.\n\nIsrael denied that \"Dakar\" sank as the result of hostile action and stated that \"Dakar\" was involved in crash diving exercises on its return voyage and was lost probably as a result of a mechanical failure. On 25 April 1968, Vice Admiral Abraham Botzer, commander of the Israeli Navy, stated that \"Dakar\" sank on 24 January 1968, two days before being reported missing due to \"technical or human malfunctioning\" and not \"foul play\".\n\nOn 9 February 1969, over a year after \"Dakar\" went missing, a fisherman found her stern emergency buoy marker washed up on the coast of Khan Yunis, a town southwest of Gaza. British T-class submarines had two such buoy markers, bow and stern, secured behind wooden doors in cages under the deck and attached to the submarine with metal cables long. However, the experts who examined the of cable still attached to the buoy made several inaccurate determinations. Their conclusions, that the buoy had remained attached to the submarine for most of the preceding year until the cable broke completely, \"Dakar\" rested in depth between , and was off her planned route, misled searchers for decades. It was not until April 1999 and some 25 failed expeditions later that a search effort was concentrated along the original route.\n\nOn 1 January 1970, the Egyptian newspaper \"Al Akhbar\" reported that \"Dakar\" had been sunk by an Egyptian warship with depth charges. The Egyptian story was told in a 2 July 2005 interview by \"Asharq Al-Awsat\" with General Mohamed Azab (major at that time):\n\nThe Israeli government stated there was no evidence to substantiate the Egyptian unofficial charges.\n\nDuring the 1980s the Israelis, using a salvage vessel with Egyptian liaison officers, conducted three searches for \"Dakar\" in waters north of Sinai and another search off the Greek island of Rhodes. In August 1986, the U.S. Navy committed a P-3 Orion and a S-3 Viking to search Egyptian waters near al-Arish. In October 1998, Israel began running advertisements in newspapers in Turkey, Egypt, France, Greece and Russia offering rewards of up to $300,000 for any information on the fate of \"Dakar\".\n\nOn 24 May 1999 a joint U.S.–Israeli search team using information received from U.S. intelligence sources and led by Thomas Kent Dettweiler, a subcontractor from American Nauticos Corporation, detected a large body on the seabed between Crete and Cyprus, at a depth of some . On 28 May the first video pictures were taken by the remote operated vehicle \"Remora II\", making it clear that \"Dakar\" had been found. She rests on her keel, bow to the northwest. Her conning tower was snapped off and fallen over the side. The stern of the submarine, with the propellers and dive planes, broke off aft of the engine room and rests beside the main hull.\n\nDuring October 2000 a survey of the \"Dakar\" wreckage and the wreckage site was undertaken by Nauticos corporation and the Israeli Navy. Some artifacts were recovered, including the submarine's bridge, the boat's gyrocompass and many small items.\n\nThe exact cause of the loss is unknown, but it appears that no emergency measures had been taken before \"Dakar\" dived rapidly through her maximum depth, suffered a catastrophic hull rupture, and continued her plunge to the bottom. The emergency buoy was released by the violence of the hull collapse, and drifted for a year before washing ashore.\n\nA memorial designed by architect David Brutzkus was dedicated in 1971 at the National Military and Police cemetery in Mount Herzl in Jerusalem. It is inscribed with a Hebrew Bible verse from Psalm 77:19: \"Your path led through the sea, your way through the mighty waters, though Your footprints were not seen.\"\n\n\"Dakar\"s bridge and forward edge of her sail are now a memorial display in the Naval Museum in Haifa.\n\nThe recovery of any still-existing remains of the crew members has been considered. This would permit their Jewish burial in Israel as Judaism does not recognize burial at sea and requires burial in earth. To date crew members' families have held a ceremony in a ship over the submarine's remnants. The Rabbinical authorities had to solve complicated problems of Jewish law before the crew members' wives could be declared officially widows, so that they could remarry.\n\nIn 2008, a film was released, entitled \"Full Circle\", a documentary about the search for the wreckage. In May 2009, a book was published by Nauticos president David W. Jourdan entitled, \"Never Forgotten: The Search and Discovery of Israel's Lost Submarine Dakar\". This book chronicles the history of the submarine, the story of the families of the 69 lost sailors, and the events leading to the discovery in 1999.\n\nOn 1 September 2015 it was reported that the previously-classified reports on the loss of \"Dakar\" and the subsequent search were released to the families of the submarine's crew.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "553628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=553628", "title": "Immunofluorescence", "text": "Immunofluorescence\n\nImmunofluorescence is a technique used for light microscopy with a fluorescence microscope and is used primarily on microbiological samples. This technique uses the specificity of antibodies to their antigen to target fluorescent dyes to specific biomolecule targets within a cell, and therefore allows visualization of the distribution of the target molecule through the sample. The specific region an antibody recognizes on an antigen is called an epitope. There have been efforts in epitope mapping since many antibodies can bind the same epitope and levels of binding between antibodies that recognize the same epitope can vary. Additionally, the binding of the fluorophore to the antibody itself cannot interfere with the immunological specificity of the antibody or the binding capacity of its antigen. Immunofluorescence is a widely used example of immunostaining (using antibodies to stain proteins) and is a specific example of immunohistochemistry (the use of the antibody-antigen relationship in tissues). This technique primarily makes use of fluorophores to visualise the location of the antibodies.\n\nImmunofluorescence can be used on tissue sections, cultured cell lines, or individual cells, and may be used to analyze the distribution of proteins, glycans, and small biological and non-biological molecules. This technique can even be used to visualize structures such as intermediate-sized filaments. If the topology of a cell membrane has yet to be determined, epitope insertion into proteins can be used in conjunction with immunofluorescence to determine structures. Immunofluorescence can also be used as a \"semi-quantitative\" method to gain insight into the levels and localization patterns of DNA methylation since it is a more time consuming method than true quantitative methods and there is some subjectivity in the analysis of the levels of methylation. Immunofluorescence can be used in combination with other, non-antibody methods of fluorescent staining, for example, use of DAPI to label DNA. Several microscope designs can be used for analysis of immunofluorescence samples; the simplest is the epifluorescence microscope, and the confocal microscope is also widely used. Various super-resolution microscope designs that are capable of much higher resolution can also be used.\n\nTo make fluorochrome-labeled antibodies, a fluorochrome must be conjugated (\"tagged\") to the antibody. Likewise, an antigen can also be conjugated to the antibody with a fluorescent probe in a technique called fluorescent antigen technique. Staining procedures can apply to both fixed antigen in the cytoplasm or to cell surface antigens on live cells, called \"membrane immunofluorescence\". It is also possible to label the complement of the antibody-antigen complex with a fluorescent probe. In addition to the element to which fluorescence probes are attached, there are two general classes of immunofluorescence techniques: primary and secondary. The following descriptions will focus primarily on these classes in terms of conjugated antibodies.\n\nThere are two classes of immunofluorescence techniques, primary (or direct) and secondary (or indirect).\n\nPrimary (direct) immunofluorescence uses a single, primary antibody, chemically linked to a fluorophore. The primary antibody recognizes the target molecule (antigen) and binds to a specific region called the epitope. The attached fluorophore can be detected via fluorescent microscopy, which, depending on the messenger used, will emit a specific wavelength of light once excited. Direct immunofluorescence, although somewhat less common, has notable advantages over the secondary (indirect) procedure. The direct attachment of the messenger to the antibody reduces the number of steps in the procedure, saving time and reducing non-specific background signal. This also limits the possibility of antibody cross-reactivity and possible mistakes throughout the process.\n\nHowever, some disadvantages do exist in this method. Since the number of fluorescent molecules that can be bound to the primary antibody is limited, direct immunofluorescence is substantially less sensitive than indirect immunofluorescence and may result in false negatives. Direct immunofluorescence also requires the use of much more primary antibody, which is extremely expensive, sometimes running up to $400.00/mL.\n\nSecondary (indirect) immunofluorescence uses two antibodies; the unlabeled first (primary) antibody specifically binds the target molecule, and the secondary antibody, which carries the fluorophore, recognizes the primary antibody and binds to it. Multiple secondary antibodies can bind a single primary antibody. This provides signal amplification by increasing the number of fluorophore molecules per antigen. This protocol is more complex and time-consuming than the primary (or direct) protocol above, but allows more flexibility because a variety of different secondary antibodies and detection techniques can be used for a given primary antibody.\n\nThis protocol is possible because an antibody consists of two parts, a variable region (which recognizes the antigen) and constant region (which makes up the structure of the antibody molecule). It is important to realize that this division is artificial and in reality the antibody molecule is four polypeptide chains: two heavy chains and two light chains. A researcher can generate several primary antibodies that recognize various antigens (have different variable regions), but all share the same constant region. All these antibodies may therefore be recognized by a single secondary antibody. This saves the cost of modifying the primary antibodies to directly carry a fluorophore.\n\nDifferent primary antibodies with different constant regions are typically generated by raising the antibody in different species. For example, a researcher might create primary antibodies in a goat that recognize several antigens, and then employ dye-coupled rabbit secondary antibodies that recognize the goat antibody constant region (\"rabbit anti-goat\" antibodies). The researcher may then create a second set of primary antibodies in a mouse that could be recognized by a separate \"donkey anti-mouse\" secondary antibody. This allows re-use of the difficult-to-make dye-coupled antibodies in multiple experiments.\n\nAs with most fluorescence techniques, a significant problem with immunofluorescence is photobleaching. Loss of activity caused by photobleaching can be controlled by reducing or limiting the intensity or time-span of light exposure, by increasing the concentration of fluorophores, or by employing more robust fluorophores that are less prone to bleaching (e.g., Alexa Fluors, Seta Fluors, or DyLight Fluors). Some problems that may arise from this technique include autofluorescence, extraneous undesired specific fluorescence, and nonspecific fluorescence. Autofluorescence includes fluorescence emitted from the sample tissue or cell itself. Extraneous undesired specific fluorescence occurs when a targeted antigen is impure and contains antigenic contaminants. Nonspecific fluorescence involves the loss of a probe's specificity due to fluorophore, from improper fixation, or from a dried out specimen.\n\nImmunofluorescence is only limited to fixed (i.e., dead) cells when structures within the cell are to be visualized because antibodies do not penetrate the cell membrane when reacting with fluorescent labels. Antigenic material must be fixed firmly on the site of its natural localization inside the cell. Intact antibodies can also be too large to dye cancer cells \"in vivo\". Their size results in slow tumor penetration and long circulating half-life. Research has been done investigating the use of diabodies to get around this limitation. Proteins in the supernatant or on the outside of the cell membrane can be bound by the antibodies; this allows for living cells to be stained. Depending on the fixative that is being used, proteins of interest might become cross-linked and this could result in either false positive or false negative signals due to non-specific binding.\n\nAn alternative approach is using recombinant proteins containing fluorescent protein domains, e.g., green fluorescent protein (GFP). Use of such \"tagged\" proteins allows determination of their localization in live cells. Even though this seems to be an elegant alternative to immunofluorescence, the cells have to be transfected or transduced with the GFP-tag, and as a consequence they become at least S1 or above organisms that require stricter security standards in a laboratory. This technique involves altering the genetic information of cells.\n\nMany improvements to this method lie in the improvement of fluorescent microscopes and fluorophores. Super-resolution methods generally refer to a microscope's ability to produce resolution below the Abbe limit (a limit placed on light due to its wavelength). This diffraction limit is about 200-300 nm in the lateral direction and 500-700 nm in the axial direction. This limit is comparable or larger than some structures in the cell, and consequently, this limit prevented scientists from determining details in their structure. Super-resolution in fluorescence, more specifically, refers to the ability of a microscope to prevent the simultaneous fluorescence of adjacent spectrally identical fluorophores. This process effectively sharpens the point-spread function of the microscope. Examples of recently developed super-resolution fluorescent microscope methods include stimulated emission depletion (STED) microscopy, saturated structured-illumination microscopy (SSIM), fluorescence photoactivation localization microscopy (FPALM), and stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy (STORM).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3479178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3479178", "title": "Immunoscreening", "text": "Immunoscreening\n\n\"Immunoscreening\" is a method of biotechnology to detect a polypeptide produced from a cloned gene.\n\nClones are screened for the presence of the gene product (a protein).\nThis strategy requires first that a gene library is implemented in an expression vector, and that antiserum to the protein is available.\nRadioactivity or an enzyme is coupled generally with the secondary\nantibody.\nThe radioactivity/enzyme linked secondary antibody can be purchased commercially and can detect different antigens.\nIn commercial diagnostics labs, labelled primary antibodies are\nalso used.\n\n"}
{"id": "42795641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42795641", "title": "International Commission Against the Death Penalty", "text": "International Commission Against the Death Penalty\n\nThe International Commission against the Death Penalty (ICDP or Commission) was founded in Madrid in October 2010, as a result of a Spanish initiative. ICDP is an independent body composed of 16 commissioners who have experience in international law and human rights, and are committed to global abolition of capital punishment. Their experience, background, geographical representation and personal involvement towards abolishing the death penalty, enables them to engage with senior officials from different countries.\n\nThe Commission is supported by a diverse group of 19 countries from all world regions (Algeria, Argentina, Belgium, Dominican Republic, France, Germany, Italy, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Mongolia, Norway, Philippines, Portugal, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Togo and Turkey). ICDP opposes capital punishment in all situations, and urges the immediate establishment of a universal moratorium on executions as a step towards total abolition of the death penalty.\n\n\nThe work of ICDP is varied: letters and statements about specific cases are issued urging States not to carry out executions and condemns carried out executions. ICDP organizes and attends meetings and events to promote abolition of the death penalty.\nICDP’s Members conduct country missions (so far: California and Delaware in the USA, Japan, Suriname, Tajikistan, Commonwealth Caribbean, Tunisia and Lebanon) and engage dialogue with different stakeholders working on the abolition, such as NGOs, government representatives, members of parliament. For example, Commissioner Ruth Dreifuss visited Tajikistan in 2011 and 2013 “to advocate for full abolition of the death penalty in the national law”.\nSeveral reports and opinion pieces have been published by ICDP, including a report on How States abolish the death penalty “which reviews the processes towards abolition of capital punishment by analysing the experiences of 13 States”.\n"}
{"id": "1553418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1553418", "title": "John Edward McCullough", "text": "John Edward McCullough\n\nJohn Edward McCullough (November 2, 1832 – November 8, 1885) was an American actor.\n\nJohn McCullough was born in Coleraine, Ireland. He went to America at the age of 16, and made his first appearance on the stage at the Arch Street Theatre, Philadelphia, in 1857. In support of Edwin Forrest and Edwin Booth he played second roles in Shakespearean and other tragedies, and Forrest left him by will all his prompt books. Virginius was his greatest success, although even in this part and as Othello he was coldly received in England (1881). On the night of September 29, 1884, he broke down on stage at McVicker's Theater in Chicago and was unable to recite his lines. The audience, thinking he was drunk, hissed and booed. In fact, McCullough was suffering from the early stages of general paresis. He was later committed to the Bloomingdale Insane Asylum but continued to decline and finally died in an asylum in Philadelphia. His \"insane ravings\" became popular and were imitated in one of the first audio recordings.\n\nOn March 18, 1865, less than a month before he assassinated President Abraham Lincoln, John Wilkes Booth appeared at Ford's Theatre, Washington, in the play \"The Apostate\" which was performed as a benefit for John McCullough.\n\nIn 1889, after his death, McCullough was memorialized with a statue in Philadelphia - to which Edwin Booth reportedly refused to contribute.\n\nAn apocryphal version of his death which arose as theatre lore is reported by the National Theatre in Washington, DC where he appeared a number of times in various roles between 1875 and 1889 [incorrect date—he died in 1885]. According to this version of events, McCullough was murdered backstage by a fellow actor, was buried by members of the acting company in a cellar beneath the stage, and is a resident ghost.\n\nAccording to an episode of \"Celebrity Ghost Stories\" (\"D.B. Sweeney, Adrien Zmed, Eddie Money, DJ Nicole Leone\"), John Edward McCullough's ghost is responsible for breaking the ankle of Adrian Zmed during a Broadway production of \"Grease\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26083190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26083190", "title": "Kimimon", "text": "Kimimon\n\nKimimon is a game for the iPhone and iPod Touch. It debuted in November 2009 and has since released multiple updates. Kimimon is a digital pet game, where players raise a unique virtual pet from baby into adulthood. The pets grow based on the player’s overall score.\n\nOne of Kimimons most notable features is the way it utilizes the unique hardware features of the iPhone and iPod Touch. It responds to a variety of player actions such as shake for disciplining or washing, pinching & poking for affection, and blowing into the mic to give affection or to dry.\n\n\nThere are five stages of growth and eight intermediate ones which unlock unique physical features in the Modpod.\n\nThe health bar or health level of the pet is critical its overall health. Kimimons can potentially die if they are neglected for several days in a row. Health is affected by happiness, hunger, cleanliness, and diet levels.\n"}
{"id": "1791607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1791607", "title": "Lancelot Holland", "text": "Lancelot Holland\n\nVice Admiral Lancelot Ernest Holland, CB (13 September 1887 – 24 May 1941) commanded the British force in the Battle of the Denmark Strait in May 1941 against the German battleship \"Bismarck\". Holland was killed during the battle.\n\nLancelot Holland was one of six sons and a daughter of a doctor who was also a brewer for the firm Hunt Edmunds. He was born in Middleton Cheney and was raised in the Banbury area. He entered the Royal Navy on 15 May 1902. On leaving HMS \"Britannia\" in September 1903, he was drafted to the China Station to join HMS \"Eclipse\". He served in the Far East until August 1905. The latter part of his time there was spent in HMS \"Hampshire\".\n\nReturning home, he saw brief service during the summer of 1908 in the Admiralty surveying ship HMS \"Research\". However, the surveying service proved not to be Holland's forte and three years later on 14 September 1911 the young Lieutenant Holland joined HMS \"Excellent\", the Royal Navy's gunnery school at Whale Island, Portsmouth to start the 'Long Course' which would qualify him as a lieutenant (G).\n\nHaving qualified as a gunnery lieutenant and gone on to take the advanced gunnery course at Greenwich, Holland spent the First World War in a teaching role aboard HMS \"Excellent\". After the war he was promoted to commander on 31 December 1919 and captain on 30 June 1926.\n\nDuring the period May 1929 to February 1931, Holland was flag captain to the 2nd Cruiser Squadron, aboard HMS \"Hawkins\". From May 1931 to September 1932, Holland headed the British Naval Mission to Greece. As a rear admiral he was flag captain aboard the battleship HMS \"Revenge\" from July 1934 to July 1935.\n\nAfter a 1937 stint as naval ADC to King George VI, he was promoted to Rear admiral and became commander of the 3rd Battle Squadron of the Atlantic Fleet in January 1938, flying his flag in HMS \"Resolution\" and then commander of the 2nd Battle Squadron, in August 1939 he was appointed Rear-Admiral, Commanding, Channel Force in September 1939. He then became Admiralty representative at the Air Ministry. He was promoted to Vice Admiral backdated to Aug 1940 after commanding Cruiser Force H during the Battle of Cape Spartivento on 27 Nov 1940.\n\nFrom July 1940, Holland commanded the 7th Cruiser Squadron, serving in the Mediterranean. During the course of this command he led his cruisers in the Battle of Cape Spartivento on 27 November 1940.\n\nBy this time, Holland had established himself as a gunnery specialist.\n\nHolland's next assignment was in command of the Battlecruiser Squadron. Britain had only three of these ships. They were capital ships that carried heavy guns, but sacrificed armour protection for speed. They were a concept of Admiral John Fisher before the First World War. Conventional naval thinking in the 1920s and 1930s was that the battlecruiser was designed to hunt and overtake fast commerce raiders, such as a pocket battleship or another battlecruiser, a ship too powerful for a cruiser to destroy and too fast for a battleship to catch. was the last battlecruiser built by the Royal Navy.\n\nUntil the KGV class, also at 28 knots, no British battleship was fast enough to catch the new German battleship \"Bismarck\". Her mission was to evade action and make for the open seas to attack convoys. \"Hood\" was needed to stop her. The navy recognized that \"Hood\" needed to be rebuilt to strengthen her decks to protect the vulnerable magazines but by 1938, with war threatening, the Admiralty felt that they could not risk taking her out of commission. Britain had only three battlecruisers to match the three German pocket battleships.\n\nIn May 1941, the new German battleship \"Bismarck\" attempted to break out into the North Atlantic, accompanied by the heavy cruiser \"Prinz Eugen\". Their mission was to attack Allied convoys. Holland flew his flag aboard \"Hood\", which was accompanied by the new battleship HMS \"Prince of Wales\", which mounted ten 14\" guns as opposed to the eight 15\" on the \"Hood\" and the \"Bismarck\". On 22 May, just after midnight, \"Electra\", \"Achates\", \"Antelope\", \"Anthony\", \"Echo\", and \"Icarus\", escorting the \"Hood\" and \"Prince Of Wales\", sailed to cover the northern approaches. \"Prince of Wales\" had not had time to complete the training of her new crew, and was pressed into service with builders' representatives still aboard. The intention was that the force would refuel in Hvalfjord, Iceland, and then sail again to watch the Denmark Strait. On the evening of 23 May, the weather deteriorated. At 20:55, Admiral Holland aboard the \"Hood\" signalled the destroyers \"If you are unable to maintain this speed I will have to go on without you. You should follow at your best speed.\" At 02:15 on the morning of 24 May, the destroyers were ordered to spread out at 15 mile intervals to search to the north.\n\nAt about 05:35, the German forces were sighted by the \"Hood\" and, shortly afterwards, the Germans sighted the British ships. In the ensuing Battle of the Denmark Strait the \"Hood\" suffered a catastrophic magazine explosion at 06:01 that broke the ship in half; the admiral and all but three of the crew of 1,418 were lost. One of the survivors, Ted Briggs, later stated he last saw Holland sitting in his admiral's chair, making no attempt to escape from the sinking wreck.\n\n\"Prince of Wales\" made her escape with some damage, including a hit on her bridge which killed many of her officers. One of the salvos from \"Prince of Wales\" damaged \"Bismarck\"s fuel tanks, and prompted her to make for occupied France.\n\nHolland was posthumously Mentioned in Despatches.\n\nAdmiral Holland was married to Phyllis and had one son, John, who died of polio at the age of 18 in 1935.\n\nAdmiral Holland and his family attended the Anglican parish Church of St John the Baptist at Boldre in the New Forest, Hampshire, England. They had a memorial to their son installed there and later a Hood Memorial Chapel was dedicated. An annual memorial service is held to remember Admiral Holland and the crew of the \"Hood\". A public house in Banbury, The Admiral Holland, was named after him. This pub was demolished in May 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9211815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9211815", "title": "Linn Banks", "text": "Linn Banks\n\nLinn Banks (January 23, 1784 – January 13, 1842) was a 19th-century politician and lawyer, who served 26 years in the Virginia House of Delegates (including two decades as its Speaker), but resigned in order to run for the U.S. Congress. He served one term and appeared re-elected, although that election was successfully contested by future Virginia governor and Confederate General Extra Billy Smith.\n\nHe was born in what was then Culpeper County, Virginia (today part of Madison County) to parents Adam Banks and Gracey James. He married on April 2, 1811 in Wake, North Carolina to Eliza Jane Hunter Sanders. He was the great, great grandson of Adam Bankes, emigrant to Stafford County, Virginia from the Wigan, Lancashire area of England in the mid-17th century.\nBanks received a private education, then attended the College of William & Mary studied law.\n\nAdmitted to the Virginia bar in 1809, Banks interrupted his legal practice to serve in the War of 1812. He would ultimately resume practicing law, as well as lead the local Virginia Militia for decades, hence his honorific as \"colonel\". In 1824, Banks hosted the Marquis de Lafayette on his return visit to Virginia, when he visited President Madison and local militia units in Culpeper and Orange Counties.\n\nMadison County voters elected Banks as one of their two (part time) representatives in the Virginia House of Delegates in November 1812, and re-elected him many times over more than 25 years. He served from 1812 to 1838, alongside veteran William Morgan until 1814, then Daniel Field, George H. Allen, Robert Hill, Robert L. Madison, Robert Briggs and William Finks. When the Virginia Constitutional Convention of 1829-1830 instituted single member districts, Banks continued to represent Madison County. He also served as Speaker of the House for two decades, from 1817 to 1838.\n\nBanks ran as a Democrat and won election to the United States House of Representatives to fill the seat vacated by John M. Patton's resignation in 1838. He only serving until 1841, despite presenting credentials to the following Congress. Although he had appeared re-elected by a narrow vote over former State Senator William \"Extra Billy\" Smith, Banks lost the recount, so Smith assumed that congressional seat.\nAfterward, Banks resumed his legal practice, as well as managed his estates and enslaved labor. He owned 45 slaves in Madison County in 1820., and more than 40 slaves in 1840.\n\nHowever, Banks drowned on January 13, 1842 while attempting to ford the Conway River near Wolftown, Virginia. He was interred in the family cemetery on his estate called \"Vale Evergreen\" near Graves Mill, Virginia.\n\nRobert A. Banks, a possible relative, although the marriage license of his 1865 remarriage listed his father as G.J. Banks, married Louisa J. Finks (daughter of this Bank's co-delegate) in 1847, almost a decade after he succeeded to the Madison County House of delegates seat on March 2, 1839, and was re-elected several times, (though he too lost an election contest in 1841 to the same John Booton whom he had unseated in 1838). Robert A. Banks owned about 70 slaves in Madison County in 1850, and 82 in Madison County in 1860\n"}
{"id": "58379383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58379383", "title": "Louis Schaefer", "text": "Louis Schaefer\n\nLouis J. Schaefer (December 27, 1907 - August 8, 1988) was an American jockey and trainer in Thoroughbred horse racing best known for winning the Preakness Stakes, second leg of the U.S. Triple Crown series, both as a jockey and as a trainer.\n\nSchaefer rode Dr. Freedland to victory in the 1929 Preakness Stakes. He continued to ride into 1936 when he was hired by William L. Brann to take over as train for his racing stable in 1937. Louis Schaefer trained Challedon to win the 1939 Preakness and went on to earn American Horse of the Year honors for that year.\n\nA resident of Uniondale, New York, in his latter years Louis Schaefer owned a bar and grill across the street from the old Jamaica Race Course. On August 8, 1988, he died of a heart attack at age 80 in a Hempstead, New York hospital.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1785954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1785954", "title": "Mercedes, Princess of Asturias", "text": "Mercedes, Princess of Asturias\n\nMaría de las Mercedes, Princess of Asturias (María de las Mercedes de Borbón y Habsburgo-Lorena) (11 September 1880 – 17 October 1904), was the eldest child of King Alfonso XII of Spain and his second wife, Maria Christina of Austria. She was Princess of Asturias, the heir presumptive to the Crown of Spain, for all 24 years of her life.\n\nHad her younger sibling, unborn at the death of Alfonso XII, been a daughter, Mercedes would have been queen regnant of Spain. The sibling proved to be a boy, Alfonso XIII, and on his birth in 1886, Mercedes turned out not to be queen. She resumed the position of heir presumptive, which she held until her own death, and was succeeded in it by her own infant son Alfonso, Alfonso XIII having not yet married and fathered a legitimate child.\n\nMercedes married in Madrid on 14 February 1901, her second cousin, Prince Carlos of Bourbon-Two Sicilies, a nephew of the King of the then-defunct Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, who was elevated to the rank of Infante of Spain. The marriage was highly controversial due to her father-in-law's ties with the Carlists. She died three years later from complication while giving birth to her third child.\n\nBorn on 11 September 1880 at the Royal Palace of Madrid, Mercedes was the eldest daughter of King Alfonso XII and his second wife, Maria Christina of Austria. She was christened María de las Mercedes Isabel Teresa Cristina Alfonsa. Her godmother was Queen Isabella II, her paternal grandmother, who came from retirement in Paris to attend the birth of her first grandchild. There was great disappointment because family and nation were hoping for a boy. To smooth things out, Queen Maria Christina suggested giving her daughter the name Mercedes in honor of her husband's first wife, Mercedes of Orléans.\n\nMercedes was heir presumptive from her birth, but the disappointment was so great that she was initially treated only as an \"infanta\". Antonio Cánovas del Castillo, then head of the government, who disliked Maria Christina and did not want the crown to pass again to a female after the disastrous reign of Isabella II, decided to ignore the newborn. Mercedes's paternal aunt Isabella retained the title of Princess of Asturias until Práxedes Mateo Sagasta, President of the government replacing Cánovas, pressured King Alfonso XII to accord the title to Mercedes, which he did on 10 March 1881. On 12 November 1882, Mercedes gained a sister, Infanta Maria Teresa. The marriage of their parents was unhappy. Alfonso had married Maria Christina in order to secure the succession to the throne. He did not love his wife and was disappointed when she gave birth to two daughters, while he already had two extramarital sons. In July 1883, Maria Christina left the Spanish court and traveled with her daughters to visit her own family in Austria.\n\nBy the summer of 1884, Alfonso XII's health deteriorated; he had tuberculosis. After a brief improvement, the 27-year-old king died on 25 November 1885 leaving his wife pregnant. The birth of another sister would have made Mercedes queen, but the sibling proved to be a boy, who became King Alfonso XIII upon his birth on 17 May 1886. She resumed the position of heir presumptive, which she held for the rest of her life.\n\nMercedes made her first public appearance at the royal court by the hand of her mother when Queen Maria Christina was declared regent. The education of the Princess of Asturias and her younger sister Infanta Maria Teresa was confined to the Royal Palace of Madrid in an austere environment headed by two widows: their mother and their paternal aunt Isabella (herself formerly Princess of Asturias). The Queen brought up her three children strictly. Despite her constitutional status, Mercedes was not given an education that would have prepared her to govern the nation. She received instead the conventional upbringing of princesses of her time. There were piano and painting lessons, knitting practices and the Queen involved her daughter in palace duties. Particular attention was paid to obedience and religious precepts.\n\nMercedes grew up to be a serious young woman, shy and unprepossessing. She was more Habsburg in appearance due to her long face. The family spent the summer months in the Palace of Miramar in San Sebastián.\n\nIn her adolescence, Mercedes accompanied her mother to trips abroad visiting her paternal grandmother in Paris, her paternal aunt Paz in Munich, and her maternal grandmother Elisabeth Franziska in Vienna. The situation in Spain became more complicated with the Spanish–American War in 1898. Mercedes and her sister lived a restricted life. Their conservative mother did not allow them to take part in the social life of the Spanish nobility. The Queen offered a party in the Royal Palace to mark the debut in society of her daughters on 9 May 1899, the event having been delayed due to the war. At the dance, Mercedes fell in love with Prince Carlos of Bourbon-Two Sicilies; the two were frequently seen together.\n\nPrince Carlos, Queen Maria Christina's first cousin once removed, belonged to the deposed royal family of the Two Sicilies and had arrived in Spain years earlier in order to follow a military career in the Spanish army. The pairing of the princess and Prince Carlos was not accidental. He had been chosen as a prospective husband by both Queen Maria Christina and Infanta Isabella, who was his aunt as well. It was considered paramount to marry Mercedes to a member of the Bourbon family in order to avoid a change of the dynasty in case she succeeded her brother. Prince Carlos offered other advantages as groom to the Princess of Asturias. As he did not belong to a reigning royal family, he could settle permanently in Spain and adopt the necessary Spanish nationality. He had, however, to resign to his rights to the crown of the Two Sicilies as he was third in line after his father and his elder brother.\n\nCarlos was of serious character, shy, handsome, and Mercedes was attracted to him. Their engagement was announced on December 14, 1899. It immediately faced the strong opposition of the liberal party, the republican faction and a wide spectrum of the Spanish society. There was nothing personal against the Prince himself, but his father, the Count of Caserta, had been a general in the last Carlist War and had taken part in the looting of the city of Cuenca by Carlist troops. It was feared that Caserta's son marrying Mercedes would bring the Carlist party too close to the Spanish throne. Even the Prince's name – Carlos – aroused suspicion. In addition, the House of Bourbon-Two Sicilies was considered the most conservative Catholic dynasty, which worried the liberal party.\n\nThere were bitter attacks against Mercedes's marriage in the newspapers and protest on the streets in Madrid, Seville and Granada. The Archbishop of Valladolid, one of Spain’s most prominent prelates, wrote a letter to the Queen warning her against the dire consequences if the marriage would take place. The Queen wrote him back: \" Monsignor, dedicate yourself to direct your diocese and praying, which are your main obligations, perhaps this way none of the catastrophe you predict will happen\". Mercedes herself expressed her frustration to the strong opposition to her choice of groom in a letter to her aunt Paz: \"I am happy to marry him, but I am also upset at those who have created such a fuzz and made mother suffer for this... all because his father fought alongside don Carlos. Is this fair?\"\n\nThe controversy marred the wedding festivities. On the day of the wedding, the streets leading to the Royal Palace were barricaded for fear of the protesters and a vast number of troops deployed through the capital. There were no major incidents, however, and the ceremony took place on 14 February 1901 in the chapel of the Royal Palace of Madrid.\n\nThe couple lived at the Royal palace of Madrid in close proximity to Queen Maria Christina, as she herself had wished. The union was happy and two children were born in quick succession: Prince Alfonso (1901–1964) and Prince Fernando (1903–1905).\n\nPregnant for the third time, Mercedes longed for a daughter after having two sons. In September 1904, she turned twenty four years old. The following month, twenty days before her due day, Mercedes fell seriously ill. She had appendicitis which initially was misdiagnosed as simple intestinal cramps. Peritonitis set in and on the early hours on 16 October 1904 Mercedes gave birth prematurely to her third child, Princess Isabella Alfonsa (1904–1985).\n\nThe health of the mother was so seriously compromised that little attention was given to the child, who was believed to have been stillborn until the young King Alfonso realized the baby was alive. Mercedes died the following day, on 17 October 1904, surrounded by her family.\n\nMercedes' three children were left in the care of Queen Maria Christina and raised in the court of King Alfonso XIII. The elder son was not given the title of Prince of Asturias, but replaced his mother as heir presumptive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1252929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1252929", "title": "Metallo", "text": "Metallo\n\nMetallo () (John Corben) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics, commonly as an adversary of Superman. Created by Robert Bernstein and Al Plastino, the character first appeared in \"Action Comics\" #252 (May 1959).\n\nMetallo is depicted as a cyborg with a kryptonite power source, which he uses as a weapon against Superman. In 2009, Metallo was ranked as IGN's 52nd Greatest Comic Book Villain of All Time.\n\nMetallo was created by Robert Bernstein and Al Plastino and debuted in \"Action Comics\" #252 (May 1959). John Corben and Metallo first appeared in the daily newspaper strip called \"The Menace of Metallo\", which ran from 15 December 1958 to 4 April 1959.\n\nThere was an earlier \"Metalo\" who appeared in \"World's Finest\" #6 (Summer 1942). This was just a man who discovered the most powerful metal on earth and invented a strength serum.\n\nThe Golden Age Superman battled an unnamed scientist calling himself Metalo who wore a powered suit of steel armor. Years later, Superman encountered the villain a second time. Metalo (now named George Grant) had a new suit of armor and had also taken a serum to increase his strength to superhuman levels. He exposed Superman to a ray that reduced his power significantly giving Metalo superior strength in their first battle. Superman engaged in a lengthy regimen of exercise and training to restore his powers and returned to easily defeat Metalo.\n\nA different Metallo appeared as Jor-El's robot to battle Superboy, in \"Superboy\" #49 (1956).\n\nJohn Corben was originally a journalist (and secretly a thief and murderer) who had just committed what he thought was the perfect murder. While fleeing from the scene of the crime, he suffered a near-fatal accident that mangled his body beyond repair. An elderly scientist, Professor Vale, happened to come upon him and used his scientific skill to transfer Corben's brain into a robotic body covered by a flesh-like artificial skin. Corben discovered that his power source, a capsule of uranium, would only last a day, but was told by Vale that kryptonite would provide him an indefinite power supply.\n\nAfter obtaining a job with the \"Daily Planet\", Corben briefly tried to romance Lois Lane, while deciding that he would use his powers to eliminate Superman, the one person who might expose his criminal deeds. After setting a kryptonite death-trap for Superman, Corben stole what he thought was another sample of kryptonite from a museum as a new power supply, not knowing it was a fake prop; this mistake caused him to die, just as he was about to kill Lois Lane for discovering that he was not Superman (he had pretended to be him, being super-strong and invulnerable as a cyborg). Superman eventually escaped from the kryptonite trap, and arrived just after Metallo (John Corben) had died. (Action #252, May, 1959)\n\nA second Metallo, John's brother Roger Corben, debuted in \"Superman\" #310 (April 1977) by Curt Swan and Martin Pasko. This Metallo was created by a secret organization named \"SKULL\" that transferred Roger's brain into a new robotic body so that he could get revenge on Superman for his brother's death. Like the previous Metallo, this one was also powered by kryptonite, although this newer version wore orange and green armor, as well as a green helmet to conceal the \"new\" identity he had created using plastic surgery (which turned out to be WGBS Staffer Martin Korda).\n\nThis version of Metallo returned throughout the Bronze Age. His final appearance was featured in Alan Moore's \"Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?\" (1986).\n\nAfter John Byrne rewrote Superman's origins in the 1986 miniseries \"The Man of Steel\", Metallo was also given an altered backstory.\n\nIn this version, John Corben was a small-time con man who was fatally injured in a car crash, but thanks to luck, Professor Emmet Vale happened to pass by. Professor Vale was a pioneer in robotics and erroneously believed that Superman was the first in a wave of superpowered Kryptonian invaders after recovering Superman's ship and mistranslating Jor-El's message to his son. Vale transplanted Corben's brain into a robotic alloy body, which was powered by a two-pound chunk of kryptonite, and instructed him to kill Superman. Metallo, now Corben's new moniker, thanked Vale by snapping his neck and killing him.\n\nDespite ignoring Vale's commands, Metallo came into conflict with Superman on various occasions, largely due to his continued activities as a petty thug. Metallo later lost his kryptonite heart to Lex Luthor, though back-up life support systems allowed him to reactivate himself and escape. He remained a thorn in Superman's side and was powerful enough to cripple the Doom Patrol. Still, the Indian-born hero who called herself Celsius did blow him apart with her thermal powers. Metallo later received a major upgrade via an unholy bargain with the demon Neron. As a result, Metallo could morph his body into any mechanical shape he could imagine (turning his hands into guns or \"growing\" a jet-pack from his back) and project his consciousness into any technological or metallic device. He could also grow to monstrous size. During one battle, his gigantic fists were separated and later turned into housing by other superheroes. In another incident, Metallo was rendered more insane by the Joker and used his height to destroy an elevated train of commuters.\n\nAs Superman and others learned on various occasions, the most effective way to neutralize Metallo was to remove his (largely invulnerable) head and isolate it from other metallic items.\n\nIn \"Superman/Batman\" #2 (November 2003), Lex Luthor fabricated evidence implicating John Corben as the criminal who shot and killed Thomas and Martha Wayne, the parents of Bruce Wayne.\n\nIn the 2009-10 miniseries \"\", (which retells the origins of Superman and his supporting cast), Metallo is Sgt. John Corben. He serves under Lois Lane's father, General Sam Lane. General Lane is trying to push his daughter, Lois into a relationship with Corben. Though they had one date, she does not return his feelings for her. Corben is next seen signing up for a military option to neutralize Superman (ostensibly with the help of a powersuit built by LexCorp). However, in his first encounter with Superman, a stray bullet hit the Kryptonite rock inside the suit, leading to a disastrous energy cascade within the battlesuit which almost killed Corben. Through the efforts of Lex Luthor and a crack team of scientists, Corben survived, part-man, part-machine, with the Kryptonite rock functioning as his new heart. Driven by a hatred for this alien invader, he became the villain known as Metallo. Metallo, now wearing a green, orange and red armor, subsequently attacked Superman again in a rampage which endangered not only the citizens of Metropolis, but his own fellow soldiers. He was defeated by Superman once more.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, John Corben is under the command of General Sam Lane. General Lane tells him to talk to Lois Lane, when she keeps questioning where Superman is. It is implied that Corben and Lois once had a relationship. When Superman escapes from the military's custody, Corben is seen enlisting in what appears to be a military project co-opted by Lex Luthor, General Lane, and young scientist Doctor John Henry Irons – \"Project Steel Soldier\" – to go against Superman. Corben is seen in the \"Metal 0\" suit with scientists, mostly Irons, trying to help him. He continues believing that he did it for the affection of Lois and when the robotic needles are in his head, Metallo takes control and his heart bursts. Metallo then screams \"Where is Superman?\" Although the attack on Superman succeeds, Metallo is revealed to have been subverted by Brainiac as part of his own plans, and his rampage is defeated when Doctor Irons uses an armoured suit of his own to fight Corben and upload a computer virus that he designed in the event of such a situation. After escaping, and still under Brainiac's control, Corben continued to fight Superman until he was able to reason with Metallo and to fight Brainiac's influence because of his feelings for Lois Lane. In doing so, Corben attacked Brainiac until Superman could defeat the villain, but he subsequently fell into a coma and was taken back by the army.\n\nIt was revealed that the armor was keeping him alive thanks to alien technology, but without a heart he would soon die. General Lane told his scientists to find a way to save him since he helped to save Metropolis. He was later given a kryptonite heart to keep him alive since it was the only energy compatible with his cybernetics. After thirty-one months in a vegetative state, Corben was brought back with a shard of kryptonite to active duty in the U.S. Army. Since his actions caused the deaths of hundreds of civilians, General Lane tried to kill him by exploding the plane he was being carried in. He survived, and sought vengeance against Lane at his base, only to be confronted by an upgraded soldier like himself \"Metal-2.0\". When Corben proves too much, Metal-2.0 activates his self-destruct mechanism, hoping to destroy Corben along with himself. However, he is saved by the Scarecrow, and offered a place in the Secret Society of Super Villains, now calling himself Metallo. In \"Forever Evil\", Ultraman rips off his kryptonite heart, because of his addiction to the mineral.\n\nCorben was eventually seen again incarcerated in John Henry's isolated super prison, eventually drafted by the U.S. Government again shortly afterwards but is only brought back into their service by compunction from Lois once more (who was secretly under Brainiac's influence). Given the present danger he represents as doomsday was taking him over, Lois convinced Metallo to run Superman down in a kryptonite bombing run and was summarily incinerated by the blast; all that was left of him being the Metal Zero exo-mantel fused to his now charred remains. Lois, now completely subsumed by the Brainiac consciousness inside of her, is able to recreate Corben's essential self by downloading her memory of the man he was into whats left of his old Metal-0 suit. Said facsimile of the now deceased military sergeant a loyal echo of whom he once was obedient to her every whim. He would serve as her bodyguard as Dox's influence compelled her to cripple military defense systems around the world, he would immediately switch sides once Lois is freed from his control however and aid her in combating the alien threat to their world. As Superman and Lois departed to stop brainiac, Metallo was left on earth to defend metropolis in their stead. After the crisis is resolved Corben is later seen standing guard over Metropilis with Krypto seemingly contented with his current position.\n\nIn wake of Superman's identity being outed to the world as the hero began losing his powers, many an investigation was undertaken into his identity, contacts and motives by collective interests. Seeing as her life was in more danger than ever before, Metallo stuck close to his love as she went and did some investigating of her own in the meantime. While Vandal Savage made his play for ultimate power, Lois and Metallo were close by on the scene where Superman kept his warship from crushing a small town. While aiding Superman as Lois refused to leave his side during the battle with Savage's empowered progeny, John's bionic shell was badly damaged. Looking to make good with all the bad in his life he willingly offered his Kryptonite heart to Superman (the depowered hero having discovered a treatment for his loss of powers that essentially involved giving himself chemotherapy with kryptonite), knowing full well he couldn't survive without it.\n\nMetallo’s metallic body offers him a high degree of protection from physical and energy attacks. He has enhanced abilities and no longer needs to eat, sleep, or breathe. His brain is hermetically sealed inside a shielded alloy skull that has its own power supply. When he was first created, he was powered by a kryptonite heart; losing that he subsisted on plutonium instead. Additionally, because of his cyborg body, Metallo possesses superhuman strength and speed, enough to pose a challenge and even a threat to opponents such as Superman (in that case, he also takes advantage of the weakening power of kryptonite besides his own strength).\n\nOver the course of his criminal career Metallo's body would be decimated constantly by various circumstances. As such he would receive numerous upgrades or whole new chassis' to replace his damaged parts, such as by the obscure supervillain organization Cerberus which modified him with a vastly superior body, one with lead lined skull-plating and an anatomic layer even Superman could not demolish. This gave him greatly enhanced strength and durability, coupled with moderate mechanical regeneration to repair internal damage. He was later outfitted with a larger LexCorp tech. body which gave him laser vision and further augmented his physical abilities. Soon after it was destroyed, Corben had received a new body from fellow Kryptonite powered supervillain, Conduit; which gave Metallo radioactive blasts from his hands and could utilize Geomagnetism to make him physically immovable, even by the Man of Steel, so long as he stood on solid ground or flooring within a building complex.\n\nMetallo would eventually sell his soul (or what was left of it) to the archdemon Neron for increased power in return, gaining the ability to mentally control and absorb any mechanical or metal object he focuses on, transforming any technology (himself included) into an extension of his exo-skeleton (an ability similar to the Cyborg Superman).\n\nIn experimenting with his newfound abilities, Metallo found he could alternate differing energy frequencies for harnessing and redistributing it from various power sources. Brainiac 13 upgraded Metallo to tap into various light spectra to better utilize his kryptonite charged abilities. His mech body was also upgraded to grow towards monolithic proportions. He is also occasionally portrayed as having a liquid metal-based endoskeleton, possessing the ability to morph parts of his body, specifically his limbs, into different weapons or tools, such as chainsaws, shovels, hammers, etc. While not a genius like Lex or Brainiac, Corben's time spent with machines has given him a gifted understanding of how they work, enabling him to tinker with their mechanical functions even before gaining his technomorphing capabilities.\n\nDuring the publishing of \"Salvation Run\" it is revealed Metallo also boasts a high-calculus cyber mind with which to run the numbers of possible and probable outcomes and success scenarios through. In previous continuity, the Pre-\"Flashpoint\" Lex Luthor modified Corben to holster and utilize different forms of Kryptonite; boasting mutagenic Red-K, inverted Blue-K and lastly, artificial depowering Gold-K on top of the green he already possessed. He could even power a great many Anti-Kryptonian armaments developed by Luthor through it.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHis DC Universe Classics figure is a Collect and Connect figure in Wave 5 featuring the Riddler (Head & Torso), The Atom (right arm), The Eradicator (left arm), Amazo (right leg), and Black Lightning (left leg).\n\n"}
{"id": "1277838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1277838", "title": "Mexican standoff", "text": "Mexican standoff\n\nA Mexican standoff is a confrontation amongst three or more parties in which no strategy exists that allows any party to achieve victory. As a result, all participants need to maintain the strategic tension, which remains unresolved until some outside event makes it possible to resolve it.\n\nThe term \"Mexican standoff\" was originally used in the context of using firearms and today still commonly implies a situation in which the parties face some form of threat from the other parties. The Mexican standoff is a recurring trope in cinema, in which several armed characters hold each other at gunpoint.\n\nThe expression came into use during the last decade of the 19th century; the \"Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary\" makes an unattributed claim that the term is of Australian origin. Other sources claim the reference is to the Mexican–American War or post-war Mexican bandits in the 19th century.\n\nThe earliest print cite to the phrase was 19 March 1876 in a short story about Mexico, an American being held up by a Mexican bandit, and the outcome:\nIn popular use, the term \"Mexican standoff\" is sometimes used in reference to confrontations in which neither opponent appears to have a measurable advantage. Historically, commentators have used the term to reference the Soviet Union – United States nuclear confrontation during the Cold War, specifically the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962. The key element that makes such situations \"Mexican standoffs\" is the equality of power exercised among the involved parties. The inability of any particular party to advance its position safely is a condition common among all standoffs; in a \"Mexican standoff,\" however, there is an additional disadvantage: no party has a safe way to \"withdraw\" from its position, thus making the standoff effectively permanent.\n\nIn financial circles, the Mexican standoff is typically used to denote a situation where one side wants something, a concession of some sort, and is offering nothing of value. When the other side sees no value in agreeing to any changes, they refuse to negotiate. Although both sides may benefit from the change, neither side can agree to adequate compensation for agreeing to the change, and nothing is accomplished.\n\nA Mexican standoff where each party is pointing a gun at another is now considered a movie cliché, stemming from its frequent use as a plot device in cinema. A famous example of the trope is in Sergio Leone's 1966 Western \"The Good, the Bad and the Ugly\", where the titular characters played by Clint Eastwood, Lee Van Cleef and Eli Wallach face each other at gunpoint.\n\nDirector John Woo, considered a major influence on the action genre, is known for his highly chaotic action sequences, Mexican standoffs, and frequent use of slow motion. Director Quentin Tarantino (who has cited Woo as an influence) has featured Mexican standoff scenes in his films like \"Pulp Fiction\" (restaurant sequence); \"Inglourious Basterds\" (the tavern scene features multiple Mexican standoffs including meta-discussion); and the climactic scene of \"Reservoir Dogs\", which depicts a standoff among four characters. A Mexican standoff also features prominently in the mission \"The Wrap Up\" in \"Grand Theft Auto V\", in which a meeting between protagonist Michael De Santa and the FIB quickly devolves into an all out four-way battle among the FIB, IAA and Merryweather agents.\n\n\"Red Dead Redemption\" also features a notable Mexican standoff between 6 men, which coincidentally takes place in Mexico. One of the participants also makes a humorous nod to the trope, realizing the situation and claiming \"“There must be a name for this.”\"\n"}
{"id": "23242525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23242525", "title": "Obstetric labor complication", "text": "Obstetric labor complication\n\nAn obstetric labor complication is a difficulty or abnormality that arises during the process of labor or delivery.\n\nThe Trust for America's Health reports that as of 2011, about one third of American births have some complications; many are directly related to the mother's health including increasing rates of obesity, type 2 diabetes, and\nphysical inactivity. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has led an initiative to improve woman's health previous to conception in an effort to improve both neonatal and maternal death rates.\n\nAn amniotic fluid embolism (AFE) is a rare childbirth (obstetric) emergency in which amniotic fluid, enters the blood stream of the mother to trigger a serious reaction. This reaction then results in cardiorespiratory (heart and lung) collapse and massive bleeding (coagulopathy).\n\nObstetrical bleeding or hemorrhage, or heavy blood loss, is still the leading cause of death of birthing mothers in the world today, especially in the developing world. Heavy blood loss leads to hypovolemic shock, insufficient perfusion of vital organs and death if not rapidly treated. Blood transfusion may be life saving. Causes of heavy bleeding during labour include placental abruption and uterine rupture.\n\nUmbilical cord prolapse occurs when the umbilical cord comes out of the uterus with or before the presenting part of the fetus. Umbilical cord prolapse should always be considered a possibility when there is a sudden decrease in fetal heart rate or variable decelerations, particularly after the rupture of membranes. With overt prolapses, the diagnosis can be confirmed if the cord can be palpated on vaginal examination. Without overt prolapse, the diagnosis can only be confirmed after a cesarean section, though even then it will not always be evident at time of procedure.\n\nThe second stage of labour may be delayed or lengthy due to poor or uncoordinated uterine action, an abnormal uterine position such as breech or shoulder dystocia, and cephalopelvic disproportion (a small pelvis or large infant). Prolonged labour may result in maternal exhaustion, fetal distress, and other complications including obstetric fistula.\n\nPlacental abruption is separation of the placenta from the uterus. Treatment of placental abruption during labour is immediate delivery if the fetus is mature (36 weeks or older), or if a younger fetus or the mother is in distress.\n\nPremature labour is labour that spontaneously occurs earlier than 37 weeks gestational age.\n\nA nuchal cord is a rare complication that occurs when the umbilical cord becomes wrapped around the fetal neck. If present during labour, treatment is delivery by C-section.\n\nPerinatal asphyxia is the medical condition resulting from deprivation of oxygen to during labour. Hypoxic damage can occur to most of the infant's organs (heart, lungs, liver, gut, kidneys), but brain damage is of most concern and perhaps the least likely to quickly or completely heal. Treatment is immediate delivery (C-section). Causes of perinatal asphyxia include umbilical cord prolapse, nuchal cord, and obstructed labour.\n\nRisk factors for fetal birth injury include fetal macrosomia (big baby), maternal obesity, the need for instrumental delivery, and an inexperienced attendant. Specific situations that can contribute to birth injury include breech presentation and shoulder dystocia. Most fetal birth injuries resolve without long term harm, but brachial plexus injury may lead to Erb's palsy or Klumpke's paralysis.\n\nUterine rupture is a serious event during childbirth by which the integrity of the myometrial wall is breached. In an incomplete rupture the peritoneum is still intact. With a complete rupture the contents of the uterus may spill into the peritoneal cavity or the broad ligament. A uterine rupture is a life-threatening event for mother and baby as it typically results in severe hemorrhage and can cause perninatal asphyxia.\n"}
{"id": "24587444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24587444", "title": "Phreatoicidae", "text": "Phreatoicidae\n\nPhreatoicidae is a family of blind, freshwater isopods. They have survived apparently unchanged for 350 million years, and are only found in South Africa, India, Australia and New Zealand. They were first found near Christchurch in 1882 by Charles Chilton. The family Phreatoicidae now contains 13 genera:\n"}
{"id": "14655632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14655632", "title": "Piskacek's sign", "text": "Piskacek's sign\n\nIn medicine, Piskacek's sign is an indication of pregnancy. This sign, however, may or may not be a concrete probability of pregnancy along with other signs of early pregnancy. Other signs of early pregnancy include Goodell, Hegar, von Braun Fernwald, and Chadwick. \n\nSpecifically, Piskacek's sign consists noting a palpable lateral bulge or soft prominence one of the locations where the uterine tube meets the uterus. Piskacek's sign can be noted in the seventh to eight week of gestation. Non pregnant uterus is pyriform in shape. By 12 weeks of gestation it becomes globular. In lateral implantation, there is asymmetrical enlargement of the uterus. One half of the uterus where the implantation occurred is firm while the other half is soft. This is known as Piskacek's sign.\nThe sign is named after Ludwig Piskaçek.\n"}
{"id": "15717572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15717572", "title": "Religious abuse", "text": "Religious abuse\n\nReligious abuse is abuse administered under the guise of religion, including harassment or humiliation, which may result in psychological trauma. Religious abuse may also include misuse of religion for selfish, secular, or ideological ends such as the abuse of a clerical position.\n\nOne specific meaning of the term \"religious abuse\" refers to psychological manipulation and harm inflicted on a person by using the teachings of their religion. This is perpetrated by members of the same or similar faith, and includes the use of a position of authority within the religion. It is most often directed at children and emotionally vulnerable adults, and motivations behind such abuse vary, but can be either well-intentioned or malicious.\n\nEven well-intentioned religious abuse can have long-term psychological consequences, such as the victim developing phobias or long-term depression. They may have a sense of shame that persists even after they leave the religion. A person can also be manipulated into avoiding a beneficial action (such as a medical treatment) or to engage in a harmful behavior.\n\nIn his book \"Religious Abuse\", pastor Keith Wright describes an example of such abuse. When he was a child, his Christian Scientist mother became very ill and eventually was convinced to seek medical treatment at an inpatient facility. Members of her church went to the treatment center to convince her to trust prayer rather than treatment, and to leave. She died shortly thereafter. While the church members may not have had any malicious intent, their use of their religion's teachings to manipulate Wright's mother ultimately resulted in her death.\n\nReligiously-based psychological abuse of children can involve using teachings to subjugate children through fear, or indoctrinating the child in the beliefs of their particular religion whilst suppressing other perspectives. Psychologist Jill Mytton describes this as crushing the child's chance to form a personal morality and belief system; it makes them utterly reliant on their religion and/or parents, and they never learn to reflect critically on information they receive. Similarly, the use of fear and a judgmental environment (such as the concept of Hell) to control the child can be traumatic.\n\nPhysical abuse in a religious context often takes the form of beatings, illegal confinement, neglect, near drowning or even murder in the belief that the child is possessed by evil spirits, practicing sorcery or witchcraft, or has committed some kind of sin that warrants punishment. Such extreme cases are, though, rare.\n\nIn 2012, the United Kingdom's Department for Children, Schools and Families instituted a new action plan to investigate the issue of faith-based abuse after several high-profile murders, such as that Kristy Bamu. Over a term of 10 years, Scotland Yard conducted 83 investigations into allegations of abuse with faith-based elements and feared there were even more that were unreported.\n\nReligious violence and extremism (also called communal violence) is a term that covers all phenomena where religion is either the subject or object of violent behavior.\n\nArchaeology has uncovered physical evidence of child sacrifice at several locations. Some of the best attested examples are the diverse rites which were part of the religious practices in Mesoamerica and the Inca Empire. Psychologists Alice Miller and Robert Godwin, psychohistorian Lloyd deMause and other advocates of children's rights have written about pre-Columbian sacrifice within the framework of child abuse.\n\nPlutarch (c.46–120 AD) mentions the Carthaginian's ritual burning of small children, as do Tertullian, Orosius, Diodorus Siculus and Philo. Livy and Polybius do not. The Hebrew Bible also mentions what appears to be child sacrifice practised at a place called the Tophet (\"roasting place\") by the Canaanites, and by some Israelites.\n\nChildren were thrown to the sharks in ancient Hawaii.\n\nSacrificial victims were often infants. \"The slaughtering of newborn babies may be considered a common event in many cultures\" including the Eskimo, the Polynesians, the Ancient Egyptians, the Chinese, the Scandinavians, and various indigenous peoples of Africa, the Americas and Australia.\n\nArtificial deformation of the skull predates written history and dates back as far as 45,000 BCE, as evidenced by two Neanderthal skulls found in Shanidar Cave. It was usually started just after birth and continued until the desired shape was achieved. It may have played a key role in Egyptian and Mayan societies.\n\nIn China some boys were castrated, with both the penis and scrotum cut. Other ritual actions have been described by anthropologists. Géza Róheim wrote about initiation rituals performed by Australian natives in which adolescent initiates were forced to drink blood. Ritual rape of young virgins have been part of shamanistic practices.\n\nIn some tribes rituals of Papua New Guinea, an elder \"picks out a sharp stick of cane and sticks it deep inside a boy's nostrils until he bleeds profusely into the stream of a pool, an act greeted by loud war cries.\" Afterwards, when boys are initiated into puberty and manhood, they are expected to perform fellatio on the elders. \"Not all initiates will participate in this ceremonial homosexual activity but, about five days later, several will have to perform fellatio several times.\"\n\nRitual murders are committed in Brazil, the USA, Mexico (Adolfo Constanzo case), Singapore (See Toa Payoh ritual murders) and Uganda.\n\nSee also List of satanic ritual abuse allegations\n\nTo this day, witch hunts, trials and accusations are still a real danger in some parts of the world. Trials result in violence against men, women and children, including murder. In The Gambia, about 1,000 people accused of being witches were locked in government detention centers in March 2009, being beaten, forced to drink an unknown hallucinogenic potion, and confess to witchcraft, according to Amnesty International. In Tanzania thousands of elderly Tanzanian women have been strangled, knifed to death and burned alive over the last two decades after being denounced as witches. Ritualistic abuse may also involve children accused of, and punished for, being purported witches in some Central African areas. A child may be blamed for the illness of a relative, for example. Other examples include Ghana, where witches were banished to refugee camps, and the beating and isolation of child witches in Angola.\n\nA small number of academics subscribe to the theory of psychohistory and attribute the abusive rituals to the psychopathological projection of the perpetrators, especially the parents.\n\nThis \"psychohistorical\" model claims that practices of tribal societies sometimes included incest and the sacrifice, mutilation, rape and torture of children, and that such activities were culturally acceptable.\n\nSpiritual abuse includes:\n\nThe term \"spiritual abuse\" was purportedly coined in the late twentieth century to refer to alleged abuse of authority by church leaders, albeit some scholars and historians would dispute that claim, citing prior literary appearances of the term in literature on religion and psychology. Lambert defines spiritual abuse as \"a type of psychological predomination that could be rightly termed—\"religious enslavement\".\" He further identifies \"religious enslavement\" as being a product of what is termed in the Bible \"witchcraft,\" or \"sorcery.\"\n\nRonald Enroth in \"Churches That Abuse\" identifies five categories:\n\n\nAgnes and John Lawless argue in \"The Drift into Deception\" that there are eight characteristics of spiritual abuse, and some of these clearly overlap with Enroth's criteria. They list the eight marks of spiritual abuse as comprising: \n\nThe author of \"Charismatic Captivation\" in a post on the book's website delineates \"33 Signs of Spiritual Abuse\", including:\n\n\nFlavil Yeakley's team of researchers conducted field-tests with members of the Boston Church of Christ using the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator. In \"The Discipling Dilemma\" Yeakley reports that the members tested \"showed a high level of change in psychological type scores\", with a \"clear pattern of convergence in a single type\". The same tests were conducted on five mainline denominations and with six groups that are popularly labeled as cults or manipulative sects. Yeakley's test results showed that the pattern in the Boston Church \"was not found among other churches of Christ or among members of five mainline denominations, but that it was found in studies of six manipulative sects.\" The research did \"not\" show that the Boston Church was \"attracting people with a psychological need for high levels of control\", but Yeakley concluded that \"they are producing conformity in psychological type\" which he deemed to be \"unnatural, unhealthy and dangerous.\"\n\nThis was not a longitudinal study and relied on asking participants to answer the survey three times; once as they imagined they might answer five years prior, once as their present selves and once as they imagined they might answer after five years of influence in the sect. The author insists that despite this, \"any significant changes in the pattern of these perceptions would indicate some kind of group pressure. A high degree of change and a convergence in a single type would be convincing proof that the Boston Church of Christ has some kind of group dynamic operating that tends to produce conformity to the group norm.\" However it could instead indicate a desire on the part of the respondents to change in the direction indicated. To determine actual changes in MBTI results would require a longitudinal study, since the methodology here was inherently suggestive of its conclusion. This is also amply borne out in its instructions: \"The instructions stated clearly that no one was telling them that their answers ought to change. The instructions said that the purpose of the study was simply to find out if there were any changes and, if so, what those changes might indicate.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51551807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51551807", "title": "Rohat Aktaş", "text": "Rohat Aktaş\n\nRohat Aktaş (ca. 1997 – February 24, 2016) a Turkish-Kurdish journalist and news editor for \"Azadiya Welat\" in the southeastern Turkish town Cizre, Şırnak Province, Turkey, was shot on January 22, disappeared on January 30, 2016, and discovered later dead. At the time, he was reporting about the armed confrontation between Kurdish separatists and Turkish forces, which is part of the Kurdish–Turkish conflict (1978–present).\n\nRohat's mother spoke with JINHA and gave an insight to Rohat's life and character. Rohat was born in Istanbul in 1997. When Rohat was three years old, the 1999 İzmit earthquake destroyed his home forcing his family to move back to their hometown, Suruç. In 2006, the \"Azadiya Welat\" began daily publication and Rohat met with Kurdish free press and began to distribute their papers. Years later he became chief and editor for the newspaper. His mother told interviewers that he did not like cruelty or oppression of different groups, it did not seem moral and scared him.\n\nAktaş was working as a news editor for the \"Azadiya Welat\" in the southeastern Turkish town, Cizre. Aktaş was covering the protests, riots and military conflict in Cizre, it was one of the several areas where security forces were very heavily present. There were many groups of militants fighting for the banned Kurdistan Workers' Party or formerly known as PKK and this was causing the area to be extremely tense. Kurdish groups were claiming that many people had been burned in the same basement in Cizre. There was a 24-hour curfew installed for the town because of the danger that was present.\n\nAfter Rohat Aktaş took refuge in a basement but eventually became trapped with many others. He was able to make contact with his family two days after he had sustained the injury and told them about this situation. The \"Azadiya Welat\" newsroom was in contact with Aktas but lost communication with him. On February 4, the newsroom had been without communication from Rohat Aktas for five days. They reported the last conversation they had with Rohat he told them \"The state wants to execute us\"\nIt was not until February 24 that Aktas's body had been identified using DNA testing to confirm his death. Aktas was among 8 others who were killed in the incident and found in the basement as well, 10-15 others were also wounded. Police have confirmed that more than 40 others have also died in the streets as a result of the violence.\n\nAfter the shooting occurred, some changes started showing up on Rohat Aktaş's Twitter account. His profile picture showed him sitting down with a rifle over his shoulder and chest. Aktaş's agency reported that he was not a fighter and was on an assignment to cover the fights in Cizre. Other allegations of Aktas being a fighter have surfaced, but none have been proven to be true. The newspaper Rohat was working for, \"Azadiya Wela\" has confirmed that he was in Cizre to cover the clashes for a story. Since his death, Rohat Aktaş's Twitter account has been suspended.\n\nThis was part of the Kurdish–Turkish conflict (1978–present). Kurdish nationalism aspires to separate from Turkey and create an independent area known as Kurdistan and is connected in purpose with other movements in bordering countries. In Cizre, these protests and riots became violent.\n\nThe violent outbreaks and treatment of citizens have sparked investigations revolving around the Human Rights in Turkey. At the time of his wound, Rohat Aktas was reporting about the confrontation between Kurdish separatists and Turkish forces in Cizre. Another unnamed journalist was also injured in the same events that led to Aktas's death.\n\nAlong with Aktas, 115 dead bodies have been removed from basements in the town of Cizre that came under attack by Turkish state forces. The government says more than 300 members of the security forces have died fighting Kurdish rebels since July. The curfew was not lifted on the town of Cizre for a few weeks after the situation arose because of leftover explosives the military was still working to clear and clean up. Locals of Cizre have spoke since the incident and said that the worst of the violence is over, but they are uncertain whether peace has been achieved yet.\n\nIrina Bokova, director-general of UNESCO, said, \"I condemn the killing of Rohat Aktaş. It is essential for freedom of expression and freedom of information that journalists be able to carry out their work without fear of death or violence.\"\n\nA statement from PEN International stated: \"Rohat Aktaş died while trying to tell the world about the plight of wounded civilians with little or no access to medical care in Cizre. Freedom of expression plays an invaluable role, particularly in times of conflict, to allow us to understand what is happening. We call on the Turkish authorities to conduct a swift, transparent and thorough investigation into the death of Rohat Aktaş and urge the government in Ankara to look for a peaceful and diplomatic solution to the conflict in southeast Turkey.\"\n\nPress Emblem Campaign was very worried about the deterioration of the freedom of the press in Turkey. Turkey was called upon to reverse its decision to seize the Zaman daily. A full and swift investigation was needed into the murder of Rohat Aktas, the editor and journalist of a Kurdish-language daily. The event of Aktas's death has called into question the Human Rights in Turkey.\n\nInternational Association of Democratic Lawyers have coordinated with Centre Europe question the Human Rights council concerning the conditions of human rights in Turkey. Journalist have been detained on false charges of terrorism, peaceful protests were the police responded with tear gas, and the wounded were denied medical treatment. Human rights are constantly ignored and disrespected in Turkey and political groups are starting to take action.\n\n"}
{"id": "206818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206818", "title": "Seven (1995 film)", "text": "Seven (1995 film)\n\nSeven (stylized as SE7EN) is a 1995 American neo-noir crime thriller film directed by David Fincher and written by Andrew Kevin Walker. It stars Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman, Gwyneth Paltrow, John C. McGinley, R. Lee Ermey, and Kevin Spacey. It tells the story of David Mills (Pitt), a detective who partners with the retiring William Somerset (Freeman) to track down a serial killer (Spacey) who uses the seven deadly sins as a motif in his murders.\n\nThe screenplay was influenced by the time Walker spent in New York City trying to make it as a writer. Principal photography took place in Los Angeles, with the last scene filmed near Lancaster, California. The film's budget was $33 million.\n\nReleased on September 22, 1995, by New Line Cinema, \"Seven\" was the seventh-highest-grossing film of the year, grossing over $327 million worldwide. It was well received by critics, who praised the film's darkness, brutality and themes. The film was nominated for Best Film Editing at the 68th Academy Awards, but lost to \"Apollo 13\".\n\nSoon-to-retire detective William Somerset is partnered with short-tempered but idealistic David Mills, who has recently moved to the city with his wife Tracy. Tracy confides to Somerset that she is pregnant and has yet to tell Mills, as she is unhappy with the city and feels it is no place to raise a child. Somerset sympathizes, having had a similar situation with his ex-girlfriend many years earlier, and advises her to tell Mills only if she plans to keep the child.\n\nSomerset and Mills investigate a set of murders inspired by the seven deadly sins: a man forced to eat until his stomach ruptured, representing gluttony, and a defense attorney killed after a pound of flesh was taken from him, representing greed. Clues at the murder scenes lead them to a suspect's apartment, where they find a third victim, a drug dealer and child molester, strapped to a bed, emaciated but alive, representing sloth. Daily photographs of the victim, taken over a year, show the crimes were planned far in advance.\n\nThe detectives use library records to identify a John Doe and track him to his apartment. Doe flees and Mills gives chase. Doe turns to hold Mills at gunpoint for a moment before escaping. The apartment contains hundreds of notebooks revealing Doe's psychopathy, as well as a clue to another murder. The detectives arrive too late to stop a man forced to kill a prostitute by raping her with a custom-made, bladed strap-on, representing lust. The following day, they attend the scene of a fifth murder, a model whose face has been mutilated by Doe; she was given the option to call for help and live disfigured, or commit suicide by taking pills, representing pride.\n\nAs Somerset and Mills return to the police station, Doe turns himself in, covered in the blood of an unidentified victim. Doe offers to take the detectives to the final two victims and confess to the murders, but only under specific terms, or he will plead insanity. Somerset is wary, but Mills agrees.\n\nThe detectives follow Doe's directions to a remote desert location. Within minutes, a delivery van approaches. Mills holds Doe at gunpoint while Somerset intercepts the driver, who has been instructed to bring a box to them. Doe begins to taunt Mills by telling him how envious he was of his life with Tracy. Somerset opens the box and, in a sudden panic, warns Mills to stay back. Doe then says that his sin was envy, and that Tracy died as a result of this; he also states that her head is in the box, and that she was pregnant. Despite Somerset's warnings, Mills shoots Doe, representing wrath, and completing Doe's plan. Police converge and take the devastated Mills away.\n\nThe primary influence for the film's screenplay came from Andrew Kevin Walker's time spent in New York City while trying to make it as a screenwriter. \"I didn't like my time in New York, but it's true that if I hadn't lived there I probably wouldn't have written \"Seven\".\" He envisioned actor William Hurt as Somerset and named the character after his favorite author, W. Somerset Maugham.\n\nJeremiah S. Chechik was attached to direct at one point. During pre-production, Al Pacino was considered for the Somerset role, but he decided to do \"City Hall\". Denzel Washington and Sylvester Stallone turned down the role of Mills. Washington later regretted turning down the role.\n\nThe ending of the screenplay, with the head in the box, was originally part of an earlier draft that New Line had rejected, instead opting for an ending that involved more traditional elements of a detective thriller film with more action-oriented elements. But when New Line sent David Fincher the screenplay to review for his interest in the project, they accidentally sent him the original screenplay with the head-in-the-box ending. At the time, Fincher had not read a script for a year and a half since the frustrating experience of making \"Alien 3\"; he said, \"I thought I'd rather die of colon cancer than do another movie\". Fincher eventually agreed to direct \"Seven\" because he was drawn to the script, which he found to be a \"connect-the-dots movie that delivers about inhumanity. It's psychologically violent. It implies so much, not about why you did but how you did it\". He found it more a \"meditation on evil\" rather than a \"police procedural\".\n\nWhen New Line realized that they had sent Fincher the wrong draft, the President of Production, Michael De Luca, met with Fincher and noted that there was internal pressure to retain the revised version; De Luca stated that if Fincher promised to produce the movie, they would be able to stay with the head-in-a-box ending. Despite this, producer Kopelson refused to allow the film to include the head-in-a-box scene. Actor Pitt joined Fincher in arguing for keeping this original scene, noting that his previous film \"Legends of the Fall\" had its emotional ending cut after negative feedback from test audiences, and refusing to do \"Seven\" unless the head-in-the-box scene remained.\n\nFincher approached making \"Seven\" like a \"tiny genre movie, the kind of movie Friedkin might have made after \"The Exorcist\".\" He worked with cinematographer Darius Khondji and adopted a simple approach to the camerawork, which was influenced by the television show \"COPS\", \"how the camera is in the backseat peering over people's shoulder\". Fincher allowed Walker on the set while filming for on-the-set rewrites. According to the director, \"\"Seven\" is the first time I got to carry through certain things about the camera – and about what movies are or can be\".\n\nThe crowded urban streets filled with noisy denizens and an oppressive rain that seems to fall without respite were integral parts of the film, as Fincher wanted to show a city that was \"dirty, violent, polluted, often depressing. Visually and stylistically, that's how we wanted to portray this world. Everything needed to be as authentic and raw as possible.\" To this end, Fincher turned to production designer Arthur Max to create a dismal world that often eerily mirrors its inhabitants. \"We created a setting that reflects the moral decay of the people in it\", says Max. \"Everything is falling apart, and nothing is working properly.\" The film's brooding, dark look was achieved through a chemical process called bleach bypass, wherein the silver in the film stock was not removed, which in turn deepened the dark, shadowy images in the film and increased its overall tonal quality.\n\nThe 'head in a box' ending continued to worry the studio after filming was completed. After the first cut of the film was shown to the studio, they attempted to mitigate the bleakness of the ending by replacing Mills' wife's head with that of a dog, or by not having Mills fire on John Doe. However, both Fincher and Pitt continued to fight for the original ending. The final scenes of Mills being taken away and Somerset's quote from Ernest Hemingway were filmed by Fincher after initial filming was complete as a way to placate the studio (the original intention was for the film to suddenly end after Mills shot John Doe).\n\nOriginally, Fincher planned the title sequence of the film to show Freeman's character buying a house in a remote country area and traveling back into the city. However, days before a test screening, they had yet to film the sequence and had no budget to do it in that time. Fincher approached Kyle Cooper to suggest a replacement. Cooper recognized the amount of money used to make John Doe's notebooks (created by Clive Piercy and John Sabel), and used the sequence to display them in a slideshow set to Nine Inch Nails' \"Closer\". The hand-drawn credits font was used to suggest that Doe had written the credits himself.\n\nThe studio liked the sequence and suggested he stay with that. Fincher instead asked Cooper to \"pretend we've never met and come back and propose something else\", according to Cooper. Cooper came up with a more detailed version of this photographic sequence: \"The idea was that this is John Doe's job: he gets up, makes his books, plans his murders, drinks his tea.\" Fincher liked this approach, but cautioned Cooper \"Well, that would be neat, but that's kind of a 2D glimpse. Figure out a way for it to involve John Doe, to show that somewhere across town somebody is working on some really evil shit. I don't want it to be just flipping through pages, as beautiful as they are.\" Cooper reworked the idea, working with Wayne Coe to create a storyboard for a live-action shot and adding in filming along with photographs of the books, new props include film reels and additional notebooks, visual effects for the title credits, and elements inspired by Doe's behavior in the movie, such as cutting his fingertips. Fincher liked this approach, and considered getting Mark Romanek, the director of the \"Closer\" music video to produce the sequence, but Cooper insisted he direct it. Cooper was assisted by film editor Angus Wall and cinematographer Harris Savides in making the final title sequence. The filming took two days and five further weeks to edit. The credits were hand-etched onto black scratchboard and manipulated by the camera, rather than using digital effects. The final sequence used a remix of \"Closer\" created by the band Coil.\n\n\"Seven\" was released on September 22, 1995, in 2,441 theaters where it grossed US$13.9 million on its opening weekend. It went on to gross $100.1 million in North America and $227.1 million in the rest of the world for a total of $327.3 million, making \"Seven\" the seventh-highest-grossing film in 1995.\nThe film also spent 4 consecutive weeks in the top spot at the U.S. box office in 1995.\n\nThe film was well received by critics and holds an 80% positive rating at the film-review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, based on 71 critics with an average rating of 7.8/10. Its consensus reads: \"A brutal, relentlessly grimy shocker with taut performances, slick gore effects, and a haunting finale.\" The film has a rating of 65 on Metacritic based on 22 reviews.\n\nGary Arnold, in \"The Washington Times\", praised the cast: \"The film's ace in the hole is the personal appeal generated by Mr. Freeman as the mature, cerebral cop and Mr. Pitt as the young, headstrong cop. Not that the contrast is inspired or believable in itself. What gets to you is the prowess of the co-stars as they fill out sketchy character profiles.\" Sheila Johnston, in her review for \"The Independent\", praised Freeman's performance: \"The film belongs to Freeman and his quiet, carefully detailed portrayal of the jaded older man who learns not to give up the fight.\" James Charisma, in a list of Spacey's greatest film performances for \"Paste\", wrote: \"Spacey’s portrayal is a perfect balancing act: John Doe is detached from the murders he commits, yet deliberate and meticulous in his execution ... Unemotional yet smug. Analytical, violent, patient, impenetrable.\" In his review for \"Sight and Sound\", John Wrathall wrote, \"\"Seven\" has the scariest ending since George Sluizer's original \"The Vanishing\" ... and stands as the most complex and disturbing entry in the serial killer genre since \"Manhunter\".\" In his \"Great Movies\" list review, film critic Roger Ebert commented on Fincher's direction: \"None of his films is darker than this one.\"\n\nNew Line Cinema re-released \"Seven\" in Westwood, Los Angeles, California, on Christmas Day and in New York City on December 29, 1995, in an attempt to generate Academy Award nominations for Freeman, Pitt, and Fincher, which was ultimately unsuccessful.\n\nFor the DVD release, \"Seven\" was remastered and presented in the widescreen format, preserving the 2.40:1 aspect ratio of its original theatrical exhibition. Audio options include Dolby Digital EX 5.1, DTS ES Discrete 6.1, and Stereo Surround Sound.\n\nThe \"Seven\" DVD features four newly recorded, feature-length audio commentaries featuring the stars and other key contributors to the film, who talk about their experiences making \"Seven\".\n\nThis DVD is also compatible with DVD-ROM drives. Disc One features a printable screenplay with links to the film. The Blu-ray Disc was released September 14, 2010.\n\nIn 1995, a novelization with the same title was written by Anthony Bruno based on the original film.\n\nBetween September 2006 and October 2007, a series of seven comic books were published by Zenescope Entertainment with each of the seven issues dedicated to one of the seven sins. It told the story from the perspective of John Doe rather than the two homicide detectives as in the film, and gave Doe a backstory. Each issue included contributions by a group of creators independent of each other. All seven issues were collected in trade paperback form, released on January 15, 2008, as \"SE7EN\", edited by David Seidman and Ralph Tedesco.\n\nThe opening credit music is a spliced sample of an uncredited remix of the Nine Inch Nails song \"Closer\", available as \"Closer (Precursor)\", remixed by Coil, on the \"Closer\" single. The song during the end credits is David Bowie's song \"The Hearts Filthy Lesson\", found on his album \"Outside\". The film's original score is by Howard Shore.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8583165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8583165", "title": "Stegosaurus in popular culture", "text": "Stegosaurus in popular culture\n\nStegosaurus is one of the most recognizable types among cultural depictions of dinosaurs. It has been depicted on film, in cartoons, comics, as children's toys, as sculpture, and even was declared the state dinosaur of Colorado in 1982. \"Stegosaurus\" is a subject for inclusion in dinosaur toy and scale model lines, such as the Carnegie Collection.\n\nAs late as the 1970s, \"Stegosaurus\", along with other dinosaurs, was depicted in fiction as a slow-moving, dim-witted creature. The \"dinosaur renaissance\" changed the prevailing image of dinosaurs as sluggish and cold-blooded and this reevaluation has been reflected in popular media.\n\nA sketch of a \"Stegosaurus\" (based on a drawing by Ray Lydekker) forms an important plot point in the opening chapters of \"The Lost World\" by Arthur Conan Doyle.\n\nIn \"Tarzan at the Earth's Core\", by Edgar Rice Burroughs, Jason Gridley encounters a \"Stegosaurus\" in Pellucidar, the world within the Earth. The animal jumps from a height and uses its plates as a gliding mechanism to chase and attack him; the real animal could not perform such an act.\n\nEvelyn Sibley Lampman's \"The Shy Stegosaurus of Cricket Creek\" is a children's book about twins who find a talking \"Stegosaurus\" on their ranch in Oregon. She also wrote a sequel, \"The Shy Stegosaurus of Indian Springs\".\n\nThe main hero and protagonist of Steve Cole's \"Astrosaurs\" series is an anthropomorphic \"Stegosaurus\" named Captain Teggs.\n\nIn \"Jurassic Park (novel)\", the main characters come across a sick \"Stegosaurus\" at the south of \"Isla Nublar\". The animal will later be replaced by a \"Triceratops\" in the movie adaptation.\n\nIn the 1933 monster film \"King Kong\", the first creature that the band of rescuers meet, as they chase the abducted Fay Wray deep into Skull Island, is a roaring \"Stegosaurus\", which charges. In the 2005 Peter Jackson remake \"Stegosaurus\" is nowhere to be seen, although in the extended edition the \"Triceratops\"-like fictional \"Ferructus\" takes its place. A hypothetical descendant of \"Stegosaurus\", called \"Atercurisaurus\", appears in the tie-in book \"The World of Kong\".\n\nWalt Disney's 1940 auteur animation feature \"Fantasia\" features a harrowing battle between a \"Stegosaurus\" and a \"Tyrannosaurus Rex\" during a segment based upon The Rite of Spring, which depicts the history of life on Earth. (However, this conflicts with the scientific fact that the two species did not co-exist at the same time in history.) The infamous scene is echoed by a display at the Denver Museum of Nature and Science which shows a \"Stegosaurus\" facing off with an \"Allosaurus\".\n\nOver the years, \"Stegosaurus\" has often been pitted in battle against large carnivorous dinosaurs, on both the big and small screen. It came up against \"Ceratosaurus\" in \"Journey to the Beginning of Time\" (1954), in \"The Animal World\" (1956), in the PBS mini-series \"The Dinosaurs!\" (1992), in the documentary \"When Dinosaurs Roamed America\" (2001), and in \"Jurassic Fight Club\" (2008) where it also faces \"Allosaurus\". It faced \"Allosaurus\" in the first episode of the French animated series \"Once Upon a Time... Man\" (1978), in the anime series \"Kyouryuu Wakusei\" (\"Dinosaur Planet\") (1993–94), in \"Dinosaur Valley Girls\" (1996), in episode two of \"Walking with Dinosaurs\" (1999), as well as in the special \"\" (2000), in episode three of the German cartoon series \"Albert Asks What is Life?\" (2002), in \"Mammals vs. Dinos\" (2008), and in \"Planet Dinosaur\" (2011). It has even been pitted against \"Tyrannosaurus\" in Walt Disney's \"Fantasia\" (1940) (which was the first time the defense of the spike tail was seen), in \"Planet of Dinosaurs\" (1978), in the cartoon series \"Dino Riders\" (1988), in the remake of the series \"Land of the Lost\" (1991–92), in the anime television series \"Dinosaur King\" (2007–08), and in the opening scene of \"\" (2016).\n\nAn ailing \"Stegosaurus\" is encountered by the characters in the novel \"Jurassic Park\", but was replaced by a \"Triceratops\" in the film version. Although it makes no actual appearance in the film, the name is used; it is on one of the embryo vials stolen (misspelled as \"Stegasaurus\"). A \"Stegosaurus\" also appeared \"\", as one of the first dinosaurs to be seen, although they were depicted as far larger than the actual animal. They also were seen briefly in \"Jurassic Park III\" and in \"Jurassic World\".\n\n\"Stegosaurus\" is one of the three dinosaur types whose physical characteristics were combined by the designers at Toho, to create the Japanese monster Godzilla; the other two dinosaurs were \"Tyrannosaurus\" and \"Iguanodon\". In the American version of \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\" this is remarked upon by a reporter, claiming Godzilla was half-\"Stegosaurus\", half-\"Tyrannosaurus\".\n\n\"Stegosaurus\" has also featured in several television series. For example, several \"Stegosaurus\" were featured in the 1989 animated TV Series, \"Dink, the Little Dinosaur\". A \"Stegosaurus\" has also appeared in one episode of \"Doctor Who\". More recently, in 2010, a \"Stegosaurus\" appeared in the first Series 4 Prequel Webisode of the ITV series \"Primeval\". It was incorrectly shown as having a horn on its head. This is due to the fact that, instead of creating another model for the \"Stegosaurus\" entirely, the special effects team decided to use the same \"Embolotherium\" model, which they had previously used, earlier on, in the making of Episode 3.9 of \"Primeval\". In the episode \"Do Shapeshifters Dream of Electric Sheep?\" of \"Fringe\", \"Stegosaurus\"' second brain is mentioned as William Bell's design choice for shape-shifters' memory storage unit. \"Stegosaurus\" has been featured in numerous television documentaries, such as:\n\n\"Stegosaurus\" has also often been featured in children's cartoons. The \"Transformers\" toyline and related television series features four characters which can transform into stegosaurids: Snarl, Slugfest, Saberback and Striker. In \"The Land Before Time\" and its sequels, the character Spike is a young \"Stegosaurus\". In the 1980s cartoon \"Dinosaucers\", the character Stego is an anthropomorphic \"Stegosaurus\" who, while still only a trainee soldier, accomplishes difficult tasks despite his inexperience. Also, Stegz was an anthropomorphic stegosaur featured in the series \"Extreme Dinosaurs\". Ironically, despite the tiny brain size of \"Stegosaurus\", he was the most intelligent of the characters in the show. One of the Dino Knights and Drago Clones in \"Dinozaurs\" were Dino Stego and his evil counterpart Drago Stegus. In the YouTube series \"asdfmovie,\" there is a running gag in the series that a character would get crushed by a foot, and the camera zooms out to show a dinosaur who looks nothing like a \"Stegosaurus\" (no back plates, longer neck, taller structure, and longer tail). Then the dinosaur says, \"I am a \"Stegosaurus\"!\"\n\nGary Larson's \"The Far Side\" comic strip often used stegosaurs when he showed dinosaurs. The term \"Thagomizer\" originated as a joke from a \"Far Side\" comic strip, in which a group of cavemen in a lecture hall are taught by their caveman professor that the spikes were named in honor of \"the late Thag Simmons\" (the implication is that the Thagomizer was responsible for Thag's death). The term has been popularly adopted by many palaeontological authorities, including the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nIn September 2002, a hoax poster was presented at the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology entitled \"The case for \"Stegosaurus\" as an agile, cursorial biped\", ostensibly by T. R. Karbek (an anagram of R. T. Bakker) from the non-existent \"Steveville Academy of Palaeontological Studies\". This was reported in \"New Scientist\" magazine, where it was remarked that \"Stegosaurus\" was generally believed to be \"about as cursorial as a fridge-freezer\".\n\nSculptor Jim Gary created several, almost-life-sized versions of \"Stegosaurus\". Beginning in the 1960s, one always was displayed among his traveling exhibition, \"Jim Gary's Twentieth Century Dinosaurs\", and they are frequently used as an illustration of his work in books and articles about the artist because of their distinctive characteristics. One of these was displayed for months before the electrical engineering research facility at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte during a 2005 campus-wide display of the exhibition, which was hosted by Belk College, and became a mascot of sorts to students studying in nearby buildings. Howard the Duck walked under a Jim Gary \"Stegosaurus\" when a museum display of Gary's work was used as a set for the 1986 film.\nIn 1973 Alexander Calder also created a huge sculpture called, \"Stegosaurus\", that was more abstract than Gary's. It stands 50 feet tall in Hartford, Connecticut.\n\nA battle between a \"Stegosaurus\" and a \"Tyrannosaurus\" similar to the Rite of Spring scene animated for \"Fantasia\" was created using new Audio-Animatronics for Disney's Magic Skyway attraction at the 1964 World's Fair. When the Fair ended, the attraction was dismantled. However, in 1966 the dinosaurs were moved next to the Grand Canyon Diorama along the Disneyland Railroad to make the Primeval World. Tokyo Disneyland's Western River Railroad has the same diorama. A similar scene is depicted in Epcot's Universe of Energy pavilion.\n\n\"Stegosaurus\" has long been featured in popular informational books about dinosaurs. This is ostensibly due to its status as being one of the most famous dinosaurs in popular culture. Several older nonfiction books incorrectly stated that \"Stegosaurus\" had two brains, due to a mistake made by Marsh during the 1800s, in which a bundle of nerves located in the hips was thought to be a \"second brain\". However, newer informational works have corrected this, and most nonfiction dinosaur books published nowadays correctly state that \"Stegosaurus\" had only one — albeit tiny — brain, located in its skull, as all other known vertebrates do. \"Stegosaurus\" has also featured in numerous video games such as \"\" and \"Carnivores\". In the latter game, the animal was depicted as an awkward, lumbering reptile, similar to many outdated illustrations, even though the game was released in 1998, at least a decade after the general public recognized \"Stegosaurus\" and other dinosaurs as active warm-blooded beasts. Players can play as \"Stegosaurus\" in \"Combat of Giants\". A stuffed \"Stegosaurus\" makes an appearance in the video game \"Gone Home\", nicknamed Steggy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13050914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13050914", "title": "Stomorhina", "text": "Stomorhina\n\nStomorhina (often misspelled as \"Stomorrhina\") is a genus of flies in the family Calliphoridae.\n\n"}
{"id": "357980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=357980", "title": "Street fighting", "text": "Street fighting\n\nStreet fighting is hand-to-hand combat in public places, between individuals or groups of people.\n\nUnlike sport fighting, a street fight might involve weapons, multiple opponents, and no rules. The venue is usually a public place (e.g. a street) and the fight sometimes results in serious injury or occasionally even death.\n\nThe main difference between street fighting and a self defense situation is that a street fight is avoidable, whereas a self-defense situation is not. The other main difference is that the fight is consensual between both parties. A typical situation might involve two men arguing in a bar, then one suggests stepping outside, where the fight commences. Thus, it is often possible to avoid the fight by backing off, while in self-defense, a person is actively trying to escape the situation, using force if necessary to ensure his or her own safety.\n\nIn some martial arts communities, street fighting and self-defense are often considered synonymous.\n\n"}
{"id": "39414346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39414346", "title": "Suicide terminology", "text": "Suicide terminology\n\nHistorically, suicide terminology has been rife with issues of nomenclature, and terminology has often been defined differently depending on the purpose of the definition (e.g., medical, legal, administrative). A lack of agreed-upon nomenclature and operational definitions has complicated understanding. In 2007, attempts were made to reach some consensus. There is also controversy over the terms commit and committed as they relate to completed and attempted suicide.\n\nSuicidal ideation is any self-reported thoughts of engaging in suicide-related behavior. Subtypes of suicide-related ideations depend on the presence or absence of suicidal intent.\n\nTo have suicidal intent is to have suicide or deliberate self-killing as one's purpose. Intent refers to the aim, purpose, or goal of the behavior rather than the behavior itself. The term connotes a conscious desire or wish to leave or escape from life, and also connotes a resolve to act. This is contrasted with suicidal motivation, or the driving force behind ideation or intent, which need not be conscious.\n\n\"Suicide-related ideation with no suicidal intention\" is when an individual has thoughts of engaging in suicide-related behavior but has no intention to do so.\n\nWhen an individual is unable to clarify whether suicidal intent was present or not, the term \"undetermined degree of suicidal intent\" is used.\n\n\"Suicide-related ideation with some suicidal intent\" is when an individual has thoughts of engaging in suicide-related behavior and possesses suicidal intent.\n\nSuicide-related communications are any interpersonal act of imparting, conveying, or transmitting thoughts, wishes, desires, or intent for which there is evidence (either explicit or implicit) that the act of communication is not itself a self-inflicted behavior or self-injurious. This broad definition includes two subsets.\n\nA suicide threat is any interpersonal action, verbal or nonverbal, without a direct self-injurious component, that a reasonable person would interpret as communicating or suggesting that suicidal behavior might occur in the near future.\n\nA suicide plan is a proposed method of carrying out a design that will lead to a potentially self-injurious outcome; a systematic formulation of a program of action that has the potential for resulting in self-injury.\n\n\"Suicide Threat, Type I\" is a suicide threat with no associated suicidal intent. The threat may be verbal or nonverbal, passive or active.\n\n\"Suicide Plan, Type I\" is the expression of a definite plan to end one's life but with no suicidal intent.\n\n\"Suicide Threat, Type II\" is a suicide threat with an undetermined level of suicidal intent. The threat may be verbal or nonverbal, passive or covert.\n\n\"Suicide Plan, Type II\" is a proposed method of achieving a potentially self-injurious outcome with an undetermined level of intent.\n\n\"Suicide Threat, Type III\" is a suicide threat with some degree of suicidal intent. The threat may be verbal or nonverbal, passive or covert.\n\n\"Suicide Plan, Type III\" is a proposed method of achieving a potentially self-injurious outcome with some suicidal intent.\n\nSuicide related behavior is a self-inflicted, potentially injurious behavior for which there is evidence (either explicit or implicit) either that: (a) the person wished to use the appearance of intending to kill himself/herself in order to attain some other end; or (b) the person intended at some undetermined or some known degree to kill himself/herself. Suicide-related behaviors can result in no injuries, injuries, or death. Suicide-related behaviors comprise self-harm, self-inflicted unintentional death, undetermined suicide-related behaviors, self-inflicted death with undetermined intent, suicide attempt, and suicide.\n\nSelf-harm is self-inflicted, potentially injurious behavior for which there is evidence (either implicit or explicit) that the person did not intend to kill himself/herself (i.e., had no intent to die). Persons engage in self-harm behaviors when they wish to use the appearance of intending to kill themselves in order to attain some other end (e.g., to seek help, to punish others, to receive attention, or to regulate negative mood). Self-harm may result in no injuries, injuries, or death.\n\nSuicide gesture is an outdated term. Behavior that previously might have been labeled a suicide gesture, if there is no suicidal intent, is labeled as Self Harm, Type I (no injury) or Self-Harm, Type II (with injury), because the purpose of the behaviors is to alter one's life circumstances (interpersonal or intrapersonal) in a manner without suicidal intent but involving self-inflicted behaviors (whether or not it resulted in injuries). If there is an undetermined degree of suicidal intent, it is labeled as Undetermined Suicide-Related Behavior, Type I (no injury), or Undetermined Suicide-Related Behavior, Type II (with injury).\n\n\"Self-Harm, Type I\" is self-harm that has not resulted in injury.\n\n\"Self-Harm, Type II\" is self-harm that has resulted in nonfatal injury.\n\n\"Self-Inflicted Unintentional Death\" is self-harm that has resulted in death. It is defined as from self-inflicted injury, poisoning, or suffocation where there is evidence (either explicit or implicit) that there was no intent to die. This category includes those injuries or poisonings described as unintended or accidental.\n\nSuicide-related Behavior With Undetermined Degree of Suicide Intent is self-inflicted, potentially injurious behavior where intent is unknown.\n\n\"Undetermined Suicide-Related Behavior, Type I\" is self-injurious behavior that has not resulted in injuries and for which the person is unable to admit positively to the intent to die or is reluctant to admit positively to the intent to die due to other psychological states.\n\n\"Undetermined Suicide-Related Behavior, Type II\" is self-injurious behavior that has resulted in injuries and for which the person is unable to admit positively to the intent to die or is reluctant to admit positively to the intent to die due to other psychological states.\n\n\"Self-Inflicted Death with Undetermined Intent\" is self-injurious behavior that has resulted in fatal injury and for which intent is either equivocal or unknown.\n\nA suicide attempt is defined as a self-inflicted, potentially injurious behavior with a nonfatal outcome for which there is evidence (either explicit or implicit) of intent to die. A suicide attempt may result in no injuries, injuries, or death.\n\nSuicide Attempt, Type I is a suicide attempt with some degree of suicidal intent and no resultant injuries, regardless of the degree of injury or lethality of method.\n\nSuicide Attempt, Type II is a suicide attempt with some degree of suicidal intent and resultant injuries.\n\nA suicide is a self-inflicted death with evidence (either explicit or implicit) of intent to die. The term completed suicide has also been used synonymously, but is generally believed to be redundant and potentially pejorative, and, as such, is not recommended.\n\nAccording to Fairbairn, \"The most common way of speaking about suicide is to talk of its being 'committed'.\" In fact, \"committed suicide\" or similar descriptions continue to be the norm in both scholarly research and journalism. Advocacy groups have suggested that this phrasing has become so entrenched in English vocabulary that it has gained \"a naturalness which implies a deceptive harmlessness.\" Fairburn further acknowledged the difficulty in finding alternative means of referring to suicide which \"are neither clumsy nor misleading,\"\n\nHowever, while common, Lebacqz & Englehardt argue that referring to suicide as an act \"committed\" may be hazardous to ethical clarity. Others have also argued in favour of alternative language regarding suicide, both in the interest of moral and ethical precision, as well as scientific and clinical clarity. A United States Navy report urges against the use of the term \"committed suicide\" on similar grounds, asserting that \"suicide is better understood when framed objectively within the context of behavioral health.\"\n\nThe alleged lack of clarity in English suicide terminology has been attributed to the connotations of crime, dishonour, and sin that suicide may carry. The German term \"Selbstmord begehen\" is similar, denoting an act of commission. Common language has been described as \"[portraying] suicide as a 'crime' to be 'committed' as is, for example, murder.\" This is despite the fact that suicide is largely no longer a crime, and that, as noted suicidologist Samuel Wallace wrote, \"all suicide is neither abhorrent nor not; insane or not; selfish or not; rational or not; justifiable or not.\"\n\nCanadian suicide prevention activist, P. Bonny Ball, commented that the alleged criminal implications of suicide are a carryover from the Middle Ages when suicide was considered \"both illegal and sinful by the laws and religions of the time.\" Sommer-Rotenberg had similarly argued that \"the act of self-killing was considered criminal because it was perceived as transgressing the moral authority of God and the righteous feelings of humankind.\"\n\nSince \"committing suicide\" was akin to committing murder or rape, it has been argued that they continue to be linked in some languages. However, this common English expression is not universal: \"By contrast the French \"se suicider\" and the Italian \"uccidersi\" are reflexive. Likewise in Hebrew: \"l'hit'abbed\", 'to self-destroy,' is something one does to oneself, with no implication of criminality.\"\n\nVarious alternatives have been proposed to alter the language regarding the act of suicide from a variety of sectors – including government, journalism, community mental health advocates, and the scientific community. Terms such as \"death by suicide,\" and \"non-fatal suicide attempt\" have been suggested to be more objective. The World Health Organization has agreed that these terms \"are more accurate and less open to misinterpretation.\" The National Institute of Mental Health, the largest research organization in the world specializing in mental illness, also recommends such phrasing as \"completed suicide,\" or \"kill him/herself.\"\n\nAs it applies to a direct clinical context, the widely cited Beck Classification of Suicidal Behaviour exclusively uses the terminology of \"complete suicide.\" This classification was revisited in a number of notable documents (such as the Operational Classification for Determination of Suicide, the 'Tower of Babel' nomenclature, the WHO/EURO definitions, the Columbia University suicidality classification, the CDC self-directed violence surveillance system, and the Denver VA VISN 19 MIRECC self-directed violence classification system).\n\nAdvocacy groups have suggested a variety of guidelines for suicide terminology. As it concerns media reporting of suicide, a key indicator of guideline influence on language as it is practiced in that context reports including one by the Annenberg School for Communication's Public Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania suggests that there is \"evidence of a change in reporting practices following the release of the new media guidelines\"\n"}
{"id": "2163790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2163790", "title": "Terence Reese", "text": "Terence Reese\n\nJohn Terence Reese (28 August 1913 – 29 January 1996) was a British bridge player and writer, regarded as one of the finest of all time in both fields. He was born in Epsom, Surrey, England to middle-class parents, and was educated at Bradfield College and New College, Oxford, where he studied classics and attained a double first, graduating in 1935.\n\nReese's father, the son of a Welsh clergyman, worked in a bank until he transferred to his wife's family catering business. Reese said \"I played card games before I could read\". As a small boy, when his mother \"issued the standard warning about not talking to strange men, my father remarked that it was the strange men who should be warned against trying to talk to me\".\n\nReese's mother Anne ran a hotel near Guildford, and with it a bridge club, so Reese played in the earliest duplicate matches, \"circa\" 1930. Whilst at Oxford he met some serious bridge players, amongst whom were Lt.-Col. Walter Buller, Iain Macleod and Maurice Harrison-Gray, the strongest player in the country at that time. Within a year of graduating and after a brief stint at Harrod's, Reese started working for Hubert Phillips's magazine and co-wrote his first book with him in 1937. Phillips acknowledges that although the book is published jointly under their names, \"Terence is the real author of the book\", receiving only assistance in planning contents and editing from Phillips. From that point on, Reese's profession was that of a champion contract bridge player and prolific writer on the game.\n\nReese joined the ARP a few months before the war, and was never inducted into the armed forces. He ended up working in the factory of Pedro Juan (a fellow bridge player), which manufactured black-out curtains. When a Ministry of Labour inspector turned up to check on him, a hasty phone-call was needed to get Terence into an office surrounded by ledgers.\n\nReese had some hobbies; even those he pursued with typical commitment. He was always a cricket and chess enthusiast. After World War II, he made a book on greyhound racing; later he became an avid football fan, reputedly supporting Queen's Park Rangers, whose ground was next door to the White City Stadium, a home of greyhound racing. He played various other games for money, especially canasta, poker and backgammon, and wrote books on them.\n\nFrom the late 1930s to the mid-1950s, Reese presented a number of BBC radio and television programmes about bridge. He edited the \"British Bridge World\" from 1956 to 1962.\n\nHe married Alwyn Sherrington in 1970. They resided in London and later in Hove, Sussex, where he died of aspirin poisoning at home on 29 January 1996 at the age of 83. An inquest ruled his death accidental.\n\nAs a bridge player, Reese won every honour in the game, including the European Championship four times (1948, 1949, 1954, 1963) and the Bermuda Bowl (effectively, the World Team Championship) in 1955—all as a member of the Great Britain open team. He was World Par champion in 1961 and placed second in both the inaugural World Team Olympiad, 1960, and the inaugural World Open Pairs, 1962. He also represented Britain in the 1965 Bermuda Bowl and in five other European Championships. He won the Gold Cup, the premier British domestic competition, on eight occasions.\n\nReese last participated in international bridge at the 1976 World Team Olympiad in Monte Carlo, where Great Britain placed third. He was Britain's non-playing captain in the 1981 European Team Championships in Birmingham, England, placing second. Thus Great Britain qualified for the 1981 Bermuda Bowl, but the WBF credentials committee rejected Reese as captain, citing \"writings and opinions expressed by Mr. Reese that were considered not in the best interests of the game\", in the words of \"New York Times\" bridge editor Alan Truscott—primarily the \"sordid picture of top-level bridge\" presented by Reese and Jeremy Flint in their 1979 novel \"Trick Thirteen\". Britain appealed to the WBF executive council but Reese chose to remain home.\n\nPreferring backgammon as an alternative in his later years, Reese played little competitive bridge, owing in part to increasing deafness. However, his career as a bridge writer continued unabated.\n\nThe concept for \"the Little Major was born\" in late 1962, while Reese was en route to a tournament in the Canary Islands with Boris Schapiro.\n\nFirst with Schapiro and then Jeremy Flint, Reese initially created the \"Little Major\" bidding system as a warning of what would happen if the development of artificial bidding systems was allowed to go unchecked. However, under this camouflage, the system was a genuine attempt with interesting features. Ultimately, the system was abandoned when its two-year EBU 'A' license was withdrawn \"on the grounds that not enough players were playing the system\".\n\nReese's long-time partner, Boris Schapiro, put his opinion in a 1951 bridge magazine article:\n\nEleven years later, Schapiro still thought Reese was the best player in the country:\n\nUpon Reese's death in 1996, Schapiro wrote:\n\nVictor Mollo had this to say about Reese in 1967:\n\nAlan Truscott wrote in \"The New York Times\" two weeks after Reese's death:\n\nIn the 1965 Buenos Aires Bermuda Bowl, B. Jay Becker noticed Reese and his partner, Boris Schapiro, holding their cards in unusual ways during bidding, the number of fingers showing indicating length of the heart suit. A number of players and observers, including Dorothy Hayden, New York Times columnists Alan Truscott, John Gerber, British nonplaying captain Ralph Swimer, British Bridge League Chairman Geoffrey Butler, ACBL president emeritus Waldemar von Zedtwitz, and ACBL President Robin McNabb, all watched Reese and Schapiro and were convinced that they were signalling illegally. It was also confirmed that Reese was not using such signals while playing with his other partner, Jeremy Flint. At a hearing held at the tournament site in Buenos Aires, the World Bridge Federation (WBF) judged Reese and Schapiro guilty of cheating, and announced that due to \"certain irregularities\", the British team was forfeiting the matches they had already won against North America and Argentina, and that Reese and Shapiro would not be playing in the remaining matches.\n\nThe British Bridge League (BBL) subsequently convened their own enquiry, chaired by Sir John Foster, barrister and Member of Parliament, and General Lord Bourne. After hearing lasting many months, including a surprise revelation by Swimer that Schapiro had confessed his guilt to him, the \"Foster Enquiry\" found insufficient evidence to find Reese and Schapiro guilty beyond reasonable doubt. Without rebutting the \"direct\" evidence that grips were correlated with heart count, the report emphasized that there was inconclusive evidence that the players had benefitted from the signals in their bidding or play.\n\nIn 1967, the BBL asked the WBF to reverse their guilty finding; the WBF responded by unanimously reaffirming their guilty verdict, and later reiterating that they would not accept a British team including Reese and Schapiro for the 1968 Olympiad, which the BBL boycotted in protest. In 1968, a compromise was reached, the WBF maintaining their guilty verdict, but allowing Reese and Schapiro (who had announced his retirement from international bridge after the Buenos Aires Olympiad) to play in future world championships.\n\nSubsequently, both Reese and Alan Truscott published books on the scandal. Reese's book stated: \"The basis of the charge, as everybody knows, is that Schapiro and I communicated length in hearts to one another by means of illegal signals. If you want to support that charge by reference to the hands played, what you have to show is that a number of illogical, uncharacteristic, and implausible bids or plays were made that can be explained only on the basis that the players had improper knowledge of one another's hands.\" It then goes on to argue for the logic of the pair's bidding and play on the various hands from the Olympiad. Truscott's book emphasizes the unlikelihood of the observed variations in finger signals being coincidental, or of such a large number of witnesses colluding to fabricate the evidence. It also recounts a number of previous cheating accusations against Reese and Schapiro (including games other than bridge). \nIn May 2005, the English journalist David Rex-Taylor, a bridge player and publisher, claimed that Reese had made a confession to him forty years earlier, one that was not to be revealed until 2005 and after he and Schapiro were dead. The purported confession claimed that Reese and Schapiro were indeed signalling, but only to show that such signaling was possible (and so were not actually paying attention to each other's signals), purportedly as part of a book on cheating (which was abandoned after the scandal broke). Although this explanation could conceivably reconcile the use of finger signals with the absence of evidence from bidding or play, there is no corroborating evidence to support this account. In contrast, Schapiro's widow claims he continued to deny the accusations to his death.\n\nReese also had a successful career as a bridge author and journalist, a career that lasted throughout his life. He was one of the most influential and acerbic of bridge writers, with a large output (over ninety titles), including several books which remain in print as classics of bridge play. He was also the long-time bridge correspondent of \"The Lady\", \"The Observer\", the London \"Evening News\" and the \"Evening Standard\". He was also a frequent contributor to The Bridge World magazine which gave the following response to criticism of their continuing to publish articles by him after the Buenos Aires affair: \n\nReese contributed to the Acol bidding system originally developed by Maurice Harrison-Gray, Jack Marx and S.J.(\"Skid\") Simon in the late 1920s and early 1930s and co-authored the first textbook on it with Ben Cohen in 1938. Named after the Acol Bridge Club in North London (located on Acol Road at the time), it became the prevailing bidding system in Britain and some other parts of the world. The book and its subsequent editions in 1939, 1946 and 1949 gave unity to what was otherwise a rather free-wheeling bidding system. His later adaptation of Garozzo and Yallouze's book on the Blue Club and his book on the Precision Club were widely used by devotees of strong club systems, and by their opponents as references.\n\nThe great success of \"Reese on Play\" (an outstanding guide to dummy play and defence) was followed by an even more ambitious work. \"The Expert Game\" was the book which really made his name. As the title suggests, it dealt with card play at the highest level, including some ideas that were novel at the time, for instance, inferences from events that did not occur, and the principle of restricted choice. Examples of bridge logic abound in Reese, for instance, a player who overcalls but does not lead his suit is likely to lack one or two key honours; this concept is often called 'the dog that did not bark in the night' (after Sherlock Holmes in Arthur Conan Doyle's \"The Adventure of Silver Blaze\"). Another form of logic can be seen in 'If it must be so, assume it is so'. His examples of \"counting\" (and other ways of drawing inferences from the bidding and play) spread such ideas from a coterie of masters in London (or New York) to a much wider group of nascent experts. For at least twenty years after this book was published, one could be sure that virtually every top-class player had studied it minutely.\n\nReese also had the distinction of creating several new genres of bridge book. The most significant was the 'Over my shoulder' genre, where the reader is taken through the master's thinking as the bidding and play proceeds through the hand. \"Play Bridge with Reese\" was the model for several such works. \"Develop Your Bidding Judgment\" was another such work.\n\nLater, Reese made use of the growing library of hands from international competitions to create interesting quiz-type books, where the discussion was usually on the verso of the page which presented the problem. \"Famous Hands from Famous Matches\" was the first of these, followed by \"Famous Bidding Decisions\" and \"Famous Play Decisions\", all written with David Bird. In his career as a writer, Reese had a number of co-authors, mostly highly competent players and writers, yet all his books were in his inimitable style. Another of his ideas was to raid the stock of hands in bridge magazine bidding competitions for interesting and instructive hands. \"What Would You Bid?\" was the result.\n\nReese also wrote books on poker, casino gambling, canasta and backgammon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20249860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20249860", "title": "Teresa Amabile", "text": "Teresa Amabile\n\nTeresa Amabile (born in 1950) is the Edsel Bryant Ford Professor of Business Administration in the Entrepreneurial Management Unit at Harvard Business School.\n\nTeresa Amabile is primarily known for her research and writing on creativity, dating to the late 1970s. Originally educated as a chemist, Amabile received her doctorate in psychology from Stanford University in 1977. She now studies how everyday life inside organizations can influence people and their performance. Her research encompasses creativity, productivity, innovation, and inner work life – the confluence of emotions, perceptions, and motivation that people experience as they react to events at work.\n\nAmabile's most recent discoveries appear in her book, \"The Progress Principle: Using Small Wins to Ignite Joy, Engagement, and Creativity at Work.\" Published in August 2011 by Harvard Business Review Press, the book is co-authored with Amabile’s husband and collaborator, Steven Kramer, Ph.D.\n\nAmabile has published over 100 scholarly articles and chapters, in outlets including top journals in psychology (such as \"Journal of Personality and Social Psychology\" and \"American Psychologist\") and in management (\"Administrative Science Quarterly\", \"Academy of Management Journal\"). She is also the author of \"The Work Preference Inventory\" and \"KEYS to Creativity and Innovation\". Amabile has used insights from her research in working with various groups in business, government, and education, including Procter & Gamble, Novartis International AG, Motorola, IDEO, and the Creative Education Foundation. She has presented her theories, research results, and practical implications in dozens of forums, including the World Economic Forum in Davos, the Young Presidents’ Organization annual university, and the Front End of Innovation annual conference.\n\nAt Harvard Business School, Amabile has taught MBA and executive courses on managing for creativity, leadership, and ethics. Previously, at Brandeis University, she taught social psychology, organizational psychology, the psychology of creativity, and statistics. She served as the host-instructor of the 26-part series, \"Against All Odds: Inside Statistics\", originally broadcast on PBS.\n\nDr. Amabile is the author of \"The Progress Principle\", \"Creativity in Context\", and \"Growing Up Creative\", as well as over 150 scholarly papers, chapters, case studies, and presentations. She serves on the editorial boards of Creativity Research Journal, Creativity and Innovation Management, and the \"Journal of Creative Behavior\". Her papers include: Creativity (Annual Review of Psychology), Assessing the Work Environment for Creativity (Academy of Management Journal); Changes in the Work Environment for Creativity during Downsizing (Academy of Management Journal); Leader Behaviors and the Work Environment for Creativity: Perceived Leader Support (Leadership Quarterly); and Affect and Creativity at Work (Administrative Science Quarterly). She has also published several articles in Harvard Business Review.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52962850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52962850", "title": "Transmasculine reproduction", "text": "Transmasculine reproduction\n\nTransmasculine reproduction is when an individual with a masculine gender identity, who was born with biologically female reproductive organs, conceives and births a child. Transmasculine individuals were assigned female at birth, but identify more on the male side of the gender spectrum than on the female side. These individuals may identify with some stereotypically masculine behaviors and gender performances, but may not necessarily identify with all aspects of masculinity or refer to themselves as “a man”. They are also born with mammary glands and milk ducts, so in most cases it is also possible for them to breastfeed or “chest feed” their children even if they have had their breast surgically removed. Transmasculine reproduction is a matter of sexual and reproductive health, but transmasculine individuals commonly deal with lack of cooperation from health care professionals when attempting to seek medical attention for stereotypically “woman’s health issues”.\n\nTransmasculine individuals have several terms they use to describe the act of feeding their children with their bodies natural lactation. Some commonly used terms include chestfeeding, breastfeeding, nursing, feeding, and mammal feeding. Chestfeeding is a term that can be used by both cisgender and transgender parents to describe feeding their baby, since it is not gender exclusive. The term breastfeeding can cause feelings of gender dysphoria among transgender men. Gender dysphoria is the emotional and psychological distress a person experiences when their gender identity does not aligned with their biological sex, and it can cause extreme anxiety, stress, and depression for those who experience it. Referring to transmasculine people’s chest as breasts can some trigger this dysphoria, which is why gender neutral terms are often preferred. Gender dysphoria can also come to transmasculine individuals through the action of holding their baby to their chest to nurse, since it is a traditionally female action. \n\nAlthough both men and women are born with breasts, the presence of grown breasts on a transgender individual assigned female at birth can lead them to feel extreme discomfort in how their body aligns with their gender identity. It is a common choice for transgender men to have bilateral mastectomies or “chest surgery” due to the gender dysphoria surrounding their breasts. After a transmasculine individual has undergone a bilateral mastectomy their female breasts are no longer present, but they still have some mammary tissue and the ability to lactate. It is not always easy for transgender men to lactate after chest surgery, but with the help of lactation nurses the option is available for those who feel comfortable doing so. Chestfeeding is a personal choice made by some, but not all transmasculine parents and it is just one aspect of transmasculine reproduction.\n\nEven though transmasculine individuals do not identify as women, they still need to screened for the same sexual and reproductive health problems covered in women’s health as long as they have biologically female organs. Most transmasculine individuals are at risk for women’s heath problems like cervical, ovarian, and uterine cancers, unless they have their female organs removed as a part of their transition. Health care providers are not always aware of the necessity for transmasculine people to be tested for women’s health problems. There have been many instances of providers discriminating against trans individuals either by refusing service and treatment or being verbally abusive. Doctors and health care providers should be aware of the needs of patients so they can properly treat them while respecting their gender identity so as to not create further gender dysmorphia. Clinical management of transmasculine patients can be complicated by a lack of knowledge about treatments which may be unfamiliar to physicians and failure to accommodate these patients within healthcare systems leads to deficient health policy. \n"}
{"id": "405309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405309", "title": "USS Argonaut (SM-1)", "text": "USS Argonaut (SM-1)\n\nUSS \"Argonaut\" (V-4/SF-7/SM-1/A-1/APS-1/SS-166 (never formally held this classification)) was a submarine of the United States Navy, the first ship to carry the name. \"Argonaut\" was laid down as V-4 on 1 May 1925 at Portsmouth Navy Yard. She was launched on 10 November 1927, sponsored by Mrs. Philip Mason Sears, the daughter of Rear Admiral William D. MacDougall, and commissioned on 2 April 1928, Lieutenant Commander W.M. Quigley in command. Although never officially designated as \"SS-166\", at some point she displayed this number on her conning tower.\n\n\"V-4\" was the first of the second generation of V-boats commissioned in the late 1920s, which remain the largest non-nuclear submarines ever built by the United States. \"V-4\" was the behemoth of its class. These submarines were exempt by special agreement from the armament and tonnage limitations of the Washington Treaty. Her configuration, and that of the following \"V-5\" and \"V-6\", resulted from an evolving strategic concept that increasingly emphasized the possibility of a naval war with Japan in the far western Pacific. This factor, and the implications of the 1922 Washington Naval Treaty, suggested the need for long-range submarine \"cruisers\", or \"strategic scouts\", as well as long-range minelayers, for which long endurance, not high speed, was most important. The design was possibly influenced by the German \"U-cruisers\" of the Type U-139 and Type U-151 U-boat classes, although \"V-4\", \"V-5\", and \"V-6\" were all larger than these. \"V-4\" and her near-sisters \"V-5\" () and \"V-6\" () were initially designed with larger and more powerful MAN-designed diesel engines than the Busch-Sulzer engines that propelled earlier V-boats, which were failures. Unfortunately, the specially built engines failed to produce their design power, and some developed dangerous crankcase explosions. \"V-4\" was ultimately completed with smaller MAN diesels of , compared with for \"V-5\" and \"V-6\". The smaller diesels were required to allow sufficient space for mine storage.\n\nThe engine specifications as built were two BuEng-manufactured, MAN-designed direct-drive 6-cylinder 4-cycle main diesel engines, each. A BuEng MAN 6-cylinder 4-cycle auxiliary diesel engine of , driving a Ridgway electrical generator, was provided for charging batteries or for additional diesel-electric propulsion power.\n\nA more successful propulsion improvement in \"V-4\" was the replacement of earlier submarines' pairs of 60-cell batteries with a pair of 120-cell batteries, thus doubling the available voltage to the electric motors when submerged. This battery configuration would be standard until the GUPPY program following World War II. \"V-4\" and her sisters were slow in diving and, when submerged, were unwieldy and slower than designed. They also presented an excellent target for surface ship sonar and had a large turning radius.\n\nDesigned primarily as a minelayer, and built at a cost of US$6,150,000, \"V-4\" was the first and only such specialized type ever built by the United States. She had four torpedo tubes forward and two minelaying tubes aft. At the time of construction, \"V-4\" was the largest submarine ever built in the U.S., and was the largest in U.S. Navy service for 30 years.\n\nHer minelaying arrangements were \"highly ingenious, but extremely complicated\", filling two aft compartments. A compensating tube ran down the center of the two spaces, to make up for the lost weight as mines were laid, as well as to store eight additional mines. The other mines were racked in three groups around this tube, two in the fore compartment, one aft, with a hydraulically driven rotating cage between them. Mines were moved by hydraulic worm shafts, the aft racks connecting directly to the launch tubes, which had vertically sliding hydraulic doors (rather than the usual hinged ones of torpedo tubes). Each launch tube was normally loaded with four mines, and a water 'round mines (WRM) tube flooded to compensate as they were laid, then pumped into the compensating tube. Eight mines could be laid in 10 minutes.\n\nFollowing commissioning, \"V-4\" served with Submarine Division 12 based at Newport, Rhode Island.\n\nShe proved perennially underpowered, but engine replacement was postponed by war, and her MAN diesels were a constant source of trouble.\n\nIn January–February 1929, \"V-4\" underwent a series of trials off Provincetown, Massachusetts. On a trial dive during this period, she submerged to a depth of . This mark was the greatest depth an American submarine had reached up to that time. On 26 February 1929, \"V-4\" was assigned to Submarine Division 20 (SubDiv 20), and arrived at San Diego, California on 23 March. From there, she participated in battle exercises and made cruises along the West Coast.\n\nIn 1931, the \"V-4\" was heavily featured in \"Seas Beneath\", an American action film directed by John Ford. The \"V-4\" was repainted to appear as a World War I German submarine, the fictional 'U-172'.\n\n\"V-4\" was renamed Argonaut on 19 February 1931, and redesignated SM-1 (submarine, minelayer) on 1 July. On 30 June 1932, she arrived at Pearl Harbor, where she was assigned to SubDiv 7. She carried out minelaying operations, patrol duty, and other routine work. In October 1934 and again in May 1939, \"Argonaut\" took part in joint Army-Navy exercises in the Hawaiian operating area. \"Argonaut\" became the flagship of Submarine Squadron 4 (SubRon 4, commanded by Captain Freeland A. Daubin) in mid-1939 (although a known postmark dated 12/12/38 on an \"Argonaut\" cover [U.S. Submarine Argonaut A-1] reads between the killer bars: FLAGSHIP SQUADRON-4 HAWAII). The submarine returned to the West Coast in April 1941 to participate in fleet tactical exercises.\n\nOn 28 November 1941 — \"Argonaut\", commanded by Stephen G. Barchet — left Pearl Harbor to patrol around Midway Island with as Midway Defense Group 7.2. She was notified by radio of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor when she surfaced a few minutes after sunset on 7 December. \"Argonaut\" set general quarters two hours later to investigate naval gunfire around Midway. While designed as a minelayer and not an attack submarine, \"Argonaut\" made the first wartime approach on enemy naval forces; but poor maneuverability prevented reaching a suitable position for surfaced torpedo launch against the two Japanese destroyers shelling Midway. One of the destroyers saw \"Argonaut\" as she dived to make a submerged second approach in the bright moonlight; but the destroyer was unable to locate the submerged submarine, and \"Argonaut\" was again unable to maneuver into position to launch torpedoes. After being held down all night, \"Argonaut\" surfaced at dawn to recharge batteries and was unsuccessfully bombed by a United States plane from Midway.\n\n\"Argonauts\" dehumidifiers were ineffective at preventing condensation, which caused electrical fires making various pieces of electrical machinery inoperative. Three crewmen were sick with high fevers, but President Roosevelt's mention of \"Argonauts\" contribution to the war effort in a radio speech encouraged Barchet to resist the temptation to abort the patrol. By trimming the submarine 17 tons heavy, the crew was able to reduce diving time to 52 seconds by skillfully coordinated pumping between fore and aft ballast tanks; but that time was still considered too slow to avoid hostile aircraft. \"Argonaut\" successfully rendezvoused with at 06:00 20 January 1942, so the destroyer could escort her back to Pearl Harbor.\n\nOn 22 January 1942, she returned to Pearl Harbor and, after a brief stop, proceeded to Mare Island Naval Shipyard for major overhaul. While there, her diesels were replaced with General Motors Winton 12-258Ss totaling with hydraulic drive through reduction gears, and her minelaying gear was removed to prepare for conversion to a troop transport submarine. The auxiliary diesel generator was replaced by a GM Winton 8-268A and a GM Winton 4-268A. She was also fitted with a Torpedo Data Computer (lack of which likely inhibited her ability to score with torpedoes), new electronics, and two external stern torpedo tubes on the after casing, along with two stern deck stowage tubes. It appears she was not fitted with bow external torpedo tubes, as were \"Narwhal\" and \"Nautilus\", as photos taken after the refit do not show them. On return to Pearl Harbor, the conversion to a troop transport submarine was \"hastily\" finished.\n\n\"Argonaut\" returned to action in the South Pacific in August. Admiral Chester W. Nimitz assigned \"Argonaut\" and \"Nautilus\" to transport and land Marine Raiders on Makin Island in the Gilbert Islands for the Makin Raid. This move was designed to relieve pressure on American forces that had just landed on Guadalcanal. On 8 August, the two submarines embarked 120 troops of Companies A and B, 2nd Raider Battalion, and got underway for Makin. Conditions during the transit were unpleasant, and most of the marines became seasick. The convoy arrived off Makin on 16 August, and at 03:30 the next day the Marines began landing. Their rubber rafts were swamped by the sea and most of the outboard motors drowned. The Japanese—either forewarned or extraordinarily alert—were ready for the Americans' arrival. Snipers were hidden in the trees, and the landing beaches were in front of the Japanese forces instead of behind them as planned. However, by midnight of 18 August, the Japanese garrison of about 85 men was wiped out; radio stations, fuel, and other supplies and installations were destroyed, and all but 30 of the troops had been recovered.\n\n\"Argonaut\" arrived back in Pearl Harbor on 26 August. Her hull classification symbol was changed from SM-1 to APS-1 (transport submarine) on 22 September. She was never formally designated SS-166, but that hull number was reserved for her and a photo shows she occasionally displayed it. Her base of operations was transferred to Brisbane, Queensland, later in the year. In December, she departed Brisbane under Lieutenant Commander John R. Pierce to patrol the hazardous area between New Britain and Bougainville Island, south of Bismarck Archipelago. On 2 January 1943, \"Argonaut\" sank the Japanese gunboat \"Ebon Maru\" in the Bismarck Sea. On 10 January, \"Argonaut\" spotted a convoy of five freighters and their escorting destroyers—, , and —returning to Rabaul from Lae. By chance, an army aircraft—which was out of bombs—was flying overhead and witnessed \"Argonaut\"′s attack. A crewman on board the plane saw one destroyer hit by a torpedo, and the destroyers promptly counterattacking. \"Argonaut\"′s bow suddenly broke the water at an unusual angle. It was apparent that a depth charge had severely damaged the submarine. The destroyers continued circling \"Argonaut\", pumping shells into her; she slipped below the waves and was never heard from again. One hundred and two officers and men went down with her, the worst loss of life for an American submarine in wartime. Her name was stricken from the Naval Vessel Register on 26 February.\n\nJapanese reports made available at the end of the war recorded a depth charge attack followed by gunfire, at which time they \"destroyed the top of the sub\".\n\nOn the basis of the report given by the Army flier who witnessed the attack in which \"Argonaut\" perished, she was credited with damaging a Japanese destroyer on her last patrol. (Postwar, the JANAC accounting gave her none.) Since none of the histories of the three escorting destroyers report damage on 10 January 1943, the destroyer \"hit\" may have been a premature explosion.\n\nBefore her crew left for their third war patrol, they donated Argonaut's bell. Nearly 20 months after her loss, a Submarine Memorial Chapel was built and dedicated on the Submarine Base in Pearl Harbor. The bell hanging in her steeple comes from Argonaut, and still rings today for services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "148700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148700", "title": "USS Atik (AK-101)", "text": "USS Atik (AK-101)\n\nUSS \"Atik\" (AK-101) was a Q-ship of the United States Navy named for \"al-Atik\", a double star in the constellation Perseus. Her twin sister ship was .\n\nThe steel-hulled, single-screw steamer \"Carolyn\" was laid down on 15 March 1912 at Newport News, Virginia, by the Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company, for the A.K. Bull Steamship Lines; launched on 3 July 1912, sponsored by Ms. Carolyn Bull (for whom the ship was probably named), a granddaughter of the shipping firm's owner, Archibald Hilton Bull (1847–1920), and delivered on 20 July 1912.\n\nFor the next 30 years, \"Carolyn\" carried freight and passengers between the West Indies and ports on the eastern seaboard of the U.S. During World War I, she received a main battery of one and one gun, and a Navy armed guard detachment served in the ship from 28 June 1917– 11 November 1918. During that time, too, the Navy gave her the identification Id. No. 1608, but did not take her over for naval service.\n\n\"Carolyn\" pursued her prosaic calling under the house flag of the Bull Line through the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. A dispatch dated 31 January 1942 expressed the Chief of Naval Operations' desire that \"Evelyn\" and \"Carolyn\" \"be given a preliminary conversion to AK (cargo ship) in the shortest possible time.\" A letter from the Chief of the Bureau of Ships elaborated on the \"shortest possible time,\" when it stated on 12 February that the conversion and outfitting of the vessels was desired \"by 1 March 1942.\" Acquired by the Navy from the Maritime Commission, \"Carolyn\" steamed to Portsmouth, New Hampshire, where she was turned over to the Navy under a bareboat charter at 15:30 on 12 February 1942.\n\nAs could be expected, the process of converting two venerable tramp steamers into men-of-war was by no means complete, but over the next few weeks the two erstwhile \"tramps\" were given their main and secondary batteries as well as sound gear; nevertheless, they appeared to be mere cargo ships. \"Carolyn\" became \"Atik\", and was given a cargo ship hull number, AK-101; \"Evelyn\" became \"Asterion\" (AK-100). They were to use their old identities when communicating with friendly vessels and stations; if enemy ships should challenge, reply should be made in accordance with International Procedure, using the identification SS \"Vill Franca\", of Portuguese Registry, callsign CSBT.\n\n\"Atik\" (AK-101) was placed in commission at 16:45 on 5 March 1942, at the Portsmouth Navy Yard, Lieutenant Commander Harry Lynnwood Hicks, USN, in command.\n\nAt the outset, all connected with the program apparently harbored the view that neither ship \"was expected to last longer than a month after commencement of [her] assigned duty.\" \"Atik\"s holds were packed with pulpwood, a somewhat mercurial material. If dry, \"an explosive condition might well develop and, if wet, \"rot, with resultant fire, might well take place.\" Despite these disadvantages, pulpwood was selected as the best obtainable material to assure \"floatability.\"\n\n\"Atik\"s mission was to lure some unsuspecting U-boat into making a torpedo attack. According to the projected scenario, the submarine, having deemed the tramp unworthy of the expenditure of more torpedoes, would surface to sink the crippled foe with gunfire.\n\nThe plan presupposed that supporting forces would come to the rescue whenever a Q-ship ran into difficulties. In March 1942, though, there was no such reserve available. The commanding officers of the two ships were told that they could expect little help if they got into trouble. Every available combatant ship and plane was employed in convoy and patrol duties.\n\nFollowing fitting out and brief sea trials, she and \"Asterion\" got underway on 23 March 1942. Soon after leaving port, \"Atik\" and \"Asterion\" went their separate ways. On the night of 26–27 March, she was cruising about east of Norfolk, Virginia and \"Asterion\" was cruising some to the south of this area.\n\nAt 19:45 Eastern War Time, UT-4 (note that some accounts use German Winter Time, UT+1), on the night of 26 March, the Duty Officer in the Joint Operations Control Room, Eastern Sea Frontier (ESF), was informed that an SOS had been picked up from an unidentified ship which had been torpedoed. Nothing further.\n\n\"Atik\" had attracted the attention of , on her second war patrol off the eastern seaboard. The U-boat, on the surface, began stalking \"Atik\" at 17:00, and at 19:37 fired one torpedo from away which struck the ship on her port side, under the bridge. Fire broke out immediately, and the ship began to assume a slight list.\n\nAt 20:53, radio stations at Manasquan, New Jersey, and at Fire Island, New York, intercepted the distress message:\nTwo minutes later, a second distress message further amplified:\n\nAs \"U-123\" proceeded around under her victim's stern, her captain, \"Kapitänleutnant\" Reinhard Hardegen, noted one boat being lowered on the starboard side and men abandoning ship.\n\nBecause such attacks were a regular occurrences at this time and because all available surface craft were on patrol the dispatch from \"Carolyn\" produced no immediate action. The Duty Officer in the Control Room had not been informed as to the secret nature of \"Carolyn\", and consequently his only action was to forward the dispatch to Commander-in-Chief, United States Fleet (COMINCH).\n\n\"Carolyn\" was not dead—yet. After \"U-123\" turned to starboard, \"Atik\" gathered steerage way, paralleling her course by turning to starboard as well, and dropped her concealment, commencing fire from her main and secondary batteries. The first shell dropped short of the U-boat, as she made off presenting a small target; the others were off in deflection. A veritable hail of .50-caliber machine gun fire, though, ricochetted around the U-boat's decks as she put on speed to escape the trap into which Hardegen had fallen. One bullet mortally wounded a midshipman standing watch on \"U-123\"'s bridge.\n\nGradually, the U-boat pulled out of range behind the cover of a smoke screen emitted by her straining diesels, and her captain assessed the damage. As he later recorded, \"We had been incredibly lucky.\"\n\n\"U-123\" submerged and again approached her opponent. At 21:29, the U-boat shot a torpedo into \"Atik\"s machinery spaces. Satisfied that this blow would be fatal, \"U-123\" stood off and watched as \"Atik\" settled by the bow, her single screw now out of the water.\n\nOnce again, \"Atik\"s crew could be seen embarking in her boats, as their ship clung stubbornly to the surface. \"U-123\" surfaced at 22:27, confident that \"Atik\" was no longer a threat, and continued to watch until 22:50, when a cataclysmic explosion blew her to pieces. Ten minutes later, \"U-123\" buried her only casualty, the midshipman killed by the Q-ship's machine gun fire. \"Atik\"s entire crew perished, either in the blast or during the severe gale that blew up soon after the ship disintegrated.\n\nSeveral hours after receiving the report of the SOS, an officer in Cominch Operations room phoned the Duty Officer and asked if the Commander, Eastern Sea Frontier (CESF), or the Chief of Staff had been notified. They had not. The Duty Officer was informed that they should be, immediately. Because CESF and his Chief of Staff were both in Norfolk on that particular night, the Duty Officer notified the Operations Officer at his home.\n\nEarly the next morning, an Army bomber was sent to search the area from which \"Carolyn\" had sent her distress message; the destroyer and the tug were sent to assist. The Army bomber returned without having sighted anything. The tug and the destroyer encountered such heavy weather that \"Sagamore\" was recalled; \"Noa\" searched the area until fuel shortage compelled her to return to New York on 30 March. Other flights were unsuccessful until 30 March, when two Army planes and one PBY-5A Catalina flying boat out of Norfolk reported that they had sighted wreckage roughly ten miles south of the original reported position.\n\n\"Asterion\" had intercepted the distress messages from \"Atik\" and proceeded directly to the area, Lieutenant Commander Legwen deeming his orders \"sufficiently broad to proceed immediately to her assistance,\" but \"Asterion\" encountered difficulties with her steering gear, and only continued the search for 24 hours before being forced to put into Hampton Roads for repairs.\n\nThe Norwegian freighter was sighted in the vicinity, southbound for St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. On her arrival there, she was boarded and interrogation revealed that her crew had sighted no wreckage and had picked up no survivors.\n\nTwelve days later, CESF reported all known details to COMINCH on the \"suspected sinking of the SS \"Carolyn\",\" and concluded: \"...it is believed that there is very little chance that any of her officers and crew will be recovered. It is therefore recommended that if no further information is received by 27 April, they be considered lost and that next of kin be notified.\"\n\nOn 9 April, Radio Berlin reported that a U-boat had sunk an adversary. The Associated Press distributed the announcement and it was printed in the \"New York Times\" the next day.\n\nAs of 2014, no other ships in the United States Navy have been named \"Atik\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9083939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9083939", "title": "Ultras (comics)", "text": "Ultras (comics)\n\nUltras are a fictional offshoot of humanity (like Marvel Comics' superhuman mutants) who first appeared in the Malibu Comics Ultraverse comic book line.\n\nLong before humanity evolved, an alien starship exploded in the Solar System; the main body of the spaceship landed on Earth, the core of the ship impacted on the Moon. The Earth component leaked its component nanotechnology into the environment, where it contaminated and combined with living DNA. The core which had fallen on the Moon (which later became known as the Entity from the Moon) gradually repaired itself and sent out pulses of energy to signal the main section of the spaceship; since humans now incorporated this alien technology in their genes, the pulses or \"jumpstarts\" had an unforeseen side-effect. Some humans developed superhuman powers; these individuals became known as Ultras. A number of the Ultraverse's superheroes share this origin.\n"}
{"id": "31718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31718", "title": "Utopia", "text": "Utopia\n\nA utopia ( ) is an imagined community or society that possesses highly desirable or nearly perfect qualities for its citizens. The opposite of a utopia is a dystopia. One could also say that utopia is a perfect \"place\" that has been designed so there are no problems.\n\nUtopia focuses on equality in economics, government and justice, though by no means exclusively, with the method and structure of proposed implementation varying based on ideology. According to Lyman Tower Sargent \"there are socialist, capitalist, monarchical, democratic, anarchist, ecological, feminist, patriarchal, egalitarian, hierarchical, racist, left-wing, right-wing, reformist, Naturists/Nude Christians, free love, nuclear family, extended family, gay, lesbian, and many more utopias [...] Utopianism, some argue, is essential for the improvement of the human condition. But if used wrongly, it becomes dangerous. Utopia has an inherent contradictory nature here.\" Sargent argues that utopia's nature is inherently contradictory, because societies are not homogenous, and have desires which conflict and therefore cannot simultaneously be satisfied. If any two desires cannot be simultaneously satisfied, true utopia cannot be attained because in utopia all desires are satisfied.\n\nThe term \"\" was coined from Greek by Sir Thomas More for his 1516 book \"Utopia\", describing a fictional island society in the south Atlantic Ocean off the coast of South America.\n\nThe word comes from (\"not\") and τόπος (\"place\") and means \"no-place\", and strictly describes any non-existent society 'described in considerable detail'. However, in standard usage, the word's meaning has narrowed and now usually describes a non-existent society that is intended to be viewed as considerably better than contemporary society. \"Eutopia\", derived from Greek εὖ (\"good\" or \"well\") and τόπος (\"place\"), means \"good place\", and is strictly speaking the correct term to describe a positive utopia. In English, \"eutopia\" and \"utopia\" are homophonous, which may have given rise to the change in meaning.\n\nChronologically, the first recorded Utopian proposal is Plato's \"Republic\". Part conversation, part fictional depiction, and part policy proposal, \"Republic\" would categorize citizens into a rigid class structure of \"golden,\" \"silver,\" \"bronze\" and \"iron\" socioeconomic classes. The golden citizens are trained in a rigorous 50-year-long educational program to be benign oligarchs, the \"philosopher-kings.\" Plato stressed this structure many times in statements, and in his published works, such as the \"Republic\". The wisdom of these rulers will supposedly eliminate poverty and deprivation through fairly distributed resources, though the details on how to do this are unclear. The educational program for the rulers is the central notion of the proposal. It has few laws, no lawyers and rarely sends its citizens to war, but hires mercenaries from among its war-prone neighbors. These mercenaries were deliberately sent into dangerous situations in the hope that the more warlike populations of all surrounding countries will be weeded out, leaving peaceful peoples.\n\nDuring the 16th century, Thomas More's book \"Utopia\" proposed an ideal society of the same name. Readers, including Utopian socialists, have chosen to accept this imaginary society as the realistic blueprint for a working nation, while others have postulated that Thomas More intended nothing of the sort. It is believed that More's \"Utopia\" functions only on the level of a satire, a work intended to reveal more about the England of his time than about an idealistic society. This interpretation is bolstered by the title of the book and nation, and its apparent confusion between the Greek for \"no place\" and \"good place\": \"utopia\" is a compound of the syllable ou-, meaning \"no\", and topos, meaning place. But the homophonic prefix eu-, meaning \"good,\" also resonates in the word, with the implication that the perfectly \"good place\" is really \"no place.\"\n\nEcological utopian society describes new ways in which society should relate to nature.\nThese works perceive a widening gap between the modern Western way of living that destroys nature and a more traditional way of living before industrialization. Ecological utopias may advocate a society that is more sustainable. According to the Dutch philosopher Marius de Geus, ecological utopias could be inspirational sources for movements involving green politics.\n\nParticularly in the early 19th century, several utopian ideas arose, often in response to the belief that social disruption was created and caused by the development of commercialism and capitalism. These ideas are often grouped in a greater \"utopian socialist\" movement, due to their shared characteristics. A once common characteristic is an egalitarian distribution of goods, frequently with the total abolition of money. Citizens only do work which they enjoy and which is for the common good, leaving them with ample time for the cultivation of the arts and sciences. One classic example of such a utopia was Edward Bellamy's \"Looking Backward\". Another socialist utopia is William Morris's \"News from Nowhere\", written partially in response to the top-down (bureaucratic) nature of Bellamy's utopia, which Morris criticized. However, as the socialist movement developed, it moved away from utopianism; Marx in particular became a harsh critic of earlier socialism he described as utopian. (For more information, see the History of Socialism article.) In a materialist utopian society, the economy is perfect; there is no inflation, and only perfect social and financial equality exists.\n\nIn 1905, H.G. Wells published \"A Modern Utopia\", which was widely read and admired and provoked much discussion. Also consider Eric Frank Russell's book \"The Great Explosion\" (1963) whose last section details an economic and social utopia. This forms the first mention of the idea of Local Exchange Trading Systems (LETS).\n\nDuring the \"Khrushchev Thaw\" period, the Soviet writer Ivan Efremov produced the science-fiction utopia \"Andromeda\" (1957) in which a major cultural thaw took place: humanity communicates with a galaxy-wide Great Circle and develops its technology and culture within a social framework characterized by vigorous competition between alternative philosophies.\n\nThe English political philosopher James Harrington, author of the utopian work The Commonwealth of Oceana, published in 1656, inspired English country party republicanism and was influential in the design of three American colonies. His theories ultimately contributed to the idealistic principles of the American Founders. The colonies of Carolina (founded in 1670), Pennsylvania (founded in 1681), and Georgia (founded in 1733) were the only three English colonies in America that were planned as utopian societies with an integrated physical, economic, and social design. At the heart of the plan for Georgia was a concept of “agrarian equality” in which land was allocated equally and additional land acquisition through purchase or inheritance was prohibited; the plan was an early step toward the yeoman republic later envisioned by Thomas Jefferson.\n\nThe communes of the 1960s in the United States were often an attempt to greatly improve the way humans live together in communities. The back-to-the-land movements and hippies inspired many to try to live in peace and harmony on farms, remote areas, and to set up new types of governance. Communes like Kaliflower, which existed between 1967 and 1973, attempted to live outside of society's norms and create their own ideal communist based society.\n\nIntentional communities were organized and built all over the world with the hope of making a more perfect way of living together. While many of these new small communities failed, some are growing, such as the Twelve Tribes Communities that started in the United States. Since its start, it has now grown into many groups around the world.\n\nThe inter-religious utopia is similar to a form of multiculturalism where real-world cultures have successfully worked together to create a wider society based on shared values. A transparent ideology of God and religion in an inter-religious utopia is how many people envision God manifesting within such a community. In more extended theories, the formula goes up to the next level, with different religious leaders setting aside their differences and accepting harmony, peace and understanding to unite all religions with one another. Other inter-religious utopias may go even further by describing a religion where humans become God or merge with a primal force that reigned before the birth of the universe. Religion and God could be used as self-motivating factors for people to believe in and to raise themselves out of difficult situations.\n\nIn the United States and Europe, during the Second Great Awakening (ca. 1790–1840) and thereafter, many radical religious groups formed utopian societies in which faith could govern all aspects of members' lives. These utopian societies included the Shakers, who originated in England in the 18th century and arrived in America in 1774. A number of religious utopian societies from Europe came to the United States from the 18th century throughout the 19th century, including the Society of the Woman in the Wilderness (led by Johannes Kelpius (1667–1708)), the Ephrata Cloister (established in 1732), and the Harmony Society, among others. The Harmony Society was a Christian theosophy and pietist group founded in Iptingen, Germany, in 1785. Due to religious persecution by the Lutheran Church and the government in Württemberg, the society moved to the United States on October 7, 1803, settled in Pennsylvania. On February 15, 1805, about 400 followers formally organized the Harmony Society, placing all their goods in common. The group lasted until 1905, making it one of the longest-running financially successful communes in American history. The Oneida Community, founded by John Humphrey Noyes in Oneida, New York, was a utopian religious commune that lasted from 1848 to 1881. Although this utopian experiment has become better known today for its manufacture of Oneida silverware, it was one of the longest-running communes in American history. The Amana Colonies were communal settlements in Iowa, started by radical German pietists, which lasted from 1855 to 1932. The Amana Corporation, manufacturer of refrigerators and household appliances, was originally started by the group. Other examples are Fountain Grove (founded in 1875), Riker's Holy City and other Californian utopian colonies between 1855 and 1955 (Hine), as well as Sointula in British Columbia, Canada. The Amish and Hutterites can also be considered an attempt towards religious utopia. A wide variety of intentional communities with some type of faith-based ideas have also started across the world.\nThe Book of Revelation in the Christian Bible depicts an eschatological time with the defeat of Satan and of evil. The main difference compared to the Old Testament promises is that such a defeat also has an ontological value (: \"Then I saw 'a new heaven and a new earth,' for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea...'He will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death' or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away\") and no longer just gnosiological (Isaiah : \"See, I will create/new heavens and a new earth./The former things will not be remembered,/nor will they come to mind\"). Narrow interpretation of the text depicts Heaven on Earth, or a Heaven brought to Earth without sin. Daily and mundane details of this new Earth, where God and Jesus rule, remain unclear, although it is implied to be similar to the biblical Garden of Eden. Some theological philosophers believe that heaven will not be a physical realm, but instead an incorporeal place for souls.\n\nThough Francis Bacon's \"New Atlantis\" is imbued with a scientific spirit, scientific and technological utopias tend to be based in the future, when it is believed that advanced science and technology will allow utopian living standards; for example, the absence of death and suffering; changes in human nature and the human condition. Technology has affected the way humans have lived to such an extent that normal functions, like sleep, eating or even reproduction, have been replaced by artificial means. Other examples include a society where humans have struck a balance with technology and it is merely used to enhance the human living condition (e.g. \"Star Trek\"). In place of the static perfection of a utopia, libertarian transhumanists envision an \"extropia\", an open, evolving society allowing individuals and voluntary groupings to form the institutions and social forms they prefer.\n\nMariah Utsawa presented a theoretical basis for technological utopianism and set out to develop a variety of technologies ranging from maps to designs for cars and houses which might lead to the development of such a utopia.\n\nOne notable example of a technological and libertarian socialist utopia is Scottish author Iain Banks' Culture.\n\nOpposing this optimism is the prediction that advanced science and technology will, through deliberate misuse or accident, cause environmental damage or even humanity's extinction. Critics, such as Jacques Ellul and Timothy Mitchell advocate precautions against the premature embrace of new technologies. Both raise questions about changing responsibility and freedom brought by division of labour. Authors such as John Zerzan and Derrick Jensen consider that modern technology is progressively depriving humans of their autonomy, and advocate the collapse of the industrial civilization, in favor of small-scale organization, as a necessary path to avoid the threat of technology on human freedom and sustainability.\n\nThere are many examples of techno-dystopias portrayed in mainstream culture, such as the classics \"Brave New World\" and \"Nineteen Eighty-Four,\" often published as \"1984\", which have explored some of these topics.\n\nUtopias have been used to explore the ramifications of genders being either a societal construct, or a biologically \"hard-wired\" imperative, or some mix of the two. Socialist and economic utopias have tended to take the \"woman question\" seriously, and often to offer some form of equality between the sexes as part and parcel of their vision, whether this be by addressing misogyny, reorganizing society along separatist lines, creating a certain kind of androgynous equality that ignores gender, or in some other manner. For example, Edward Bellamy's \"Looking Backward\" (1887) responded, progressively for his day, to the contemporary women's suffrage and women's rights movements. Bellamy supported these movements by incorporating the equality of women and men into his utopian world's structure, albeit by consigning women to a separate sphere of light industrial activity (due to women's lesser physical strength), and making various exceptions for them in order to make room for (and to praise) motherhood. One of the earlier feminist utopias that imagines complete separatism is Charlotte Perkins Gilman's \"Herland\" (1915).\n\nIn science fiction and technological speculation, gender can be challenged on the biological as well as the social level. Marge Piercy's \"Woman on the Edge of Time\" portrays equality between the genders and complete equality in sexuality (regardless of the gender of the lovers). Birth-giving, often felt as the divider that cannot be avoided in discussions of women's rights and roles, has been shifted onto elaborate biological machinery that functions to offer an enriched embryonic experience, When a child is born, it spends most of its time in the children's ward with peers. Three \"mothers\" per child are the norm, and they are chosen in a gender neutral way (men as well as women may become \"mothers\") on the basis of their experience and ability. Technological advances also make possible the freeing of women from childbearing in Shulamith Firestone's \"The Dialectic of Sex\". The fictional aliens in Mary Gentle's \"Golden Witchbreed\" start out as gender-neutral children and do not develop into men and women until puberty, and gender has no bearing on social roles. In contrast, Doris Lessing's \"The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\" (1980) suggests that men's and women's values are inherent to the sexes and cannot be changed, making a compromise between them essential. In \"My Own Utopia\" (1961) by Elizabeth Mann Borghese, gender exists but is dependent upon age rather than sex — genderless children mature into women, some of whom eventually become men. \"William Marston's Wonder Woman comics of the 1940s featured Paradise Island, also known as Themyscira, a matriarchal all-female community of peace, loving submission, bondage, and giant space kangaroos.\"\n\nUtopian single-gender worlds or single-sex societies have long been one of the primary ways to explore implications of gender and gender-differences. In speculative fiction, female-only worlds have been imagined to come about by the action of disease that wipes out men, along with the development of technological or mystical method that allow female parthenogenic reproduction. Charlotte Perkins Gilman's 1915 novel approaches this type of separate society. Many feminist utopias pondering separatism were written in the 1970s, as a response to the Lesbian separatist movement; examples include Joanna Russ's \"The Female Man\" and Suzy McKee Charnas's \"Walk to the End of the World\" and \"Motherlines\". Utopias imagined by male authors have often included equality between sexes, rather than separation, although as noted Bellamy's strategy includes a certain amount of \"separate but equal\". The use of female-only worlds allows the exploration of female independence and freedom from patriarchy. The societies may be lesbian, such as \"Daughters of a Coral Dawn\" by Katherine V. Forrest, or not, and may not be sexual at all — a famous early sexless example being \"Herland\" (1915) by Charlotte Perkins Gilman. Charlene Ball writes in \"Women's Studies Encyclopedia\" that use of speculative fiction to explore gender roles in future societies has been more common in the United States compared to Europe and elsewhere, although such efforts as Gerd Brantenberg's \"Egalia's Daughters\" and Christa Wolf's portrayal of the land of Colchis in her \"Medea: Voices \"are certainly as influential and famous as any of the American feminist utopias.\n\nIn many cultures, societies, and religions, there is some myth or memory of a distant past when humankind lived in a primitive and simple state, but at the same time one of perfect happiness and fulfillment. In those days, the various myths tell us, there was an instinctive harmony between humanity and nature. People's needs were few and their desires limited. Both were easily satisfied by the abundance provided by nature. Accordingly, there were no motives whatsoever for war or oppression. Nor was there any need for hard and painful work. Humans were simple and pious, and felt themselves close to their God or gods. According to one anthropological theory, hunter-gatherers were the original affluent society.\n\nThese mythical or religious archetypes are inscribed in many cultures, and resurge with special vitality when people are in difficult and critical times. However, in utopias, the projection of the myth does not take place towards the remote past, but either towards the future or towards distant and fictional places, imagining that at some time in the future, at some point in space, or beyond death, there must exist the possibility of living happily.\n\nThese myths of the earliest stage of humankind have been referred to by various cultures, societies, and religions:\n\nThe Greek poet Hesiod, around the 8th century BC, in his compilation of the mythological tradition (the poem \"Works and Days\"), explained that, prior to the present era, there were four other progressively more perfect ones, the oldest of which was the Golden Age.\n\nPlutarch, the Greek historian and biographer of the 1st century, dealt with the blissful and mythic past of the humanity.\n\nFrom Sir Philip Sidney's prose romance \"The Old Arcadia\" (1580), originally a region in the Peloponnesus, Arcadia became a synonym for any rural area that serves as a pastoral setting, a \"locus amoenus\" (\"delightful place\").\n\nThe Biblical Garden of Eden as depicted in the Old Testament Bible's Book of Genesis 2 (Authorized Version of 1611):\n\n\"And the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed. And out of the ground made the Lord God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. [...]\n\nAnd the Lord God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat: but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die. [...]\n\nAnd the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone; [...] And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept: and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof; and the rib, which the Lord God had taken from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man.\"\n\nAccording to the exegesis that the biblical theologian Herbert Haag proposes in the book \"Is original sin in Scripture?\", published soon after the Second Vatican Council, would indicate that Adam and Eve were created from the beginning naked of the divine grace, an originary grace that, then, they would never have had and even less would have lost due to the subsequent events narrated. On the other hand, while supporting a continuity in the Bible about the absence of preternatural gifts () with regard to the ophitic event, Haag never makes any reference to the discontinuity of the loss of access to the tree of life.\n\nThe Land of Cockaigne (also Cockaygne, Cokaygne), was an imaginary land of idleness and luxury, famous in medieval stories, and the subject of several poems, one of which, an early translation of a 13th-century French work, is given in George Ellis' \"Specimens of Early English Poets\". In this, \"the houses were made of barley sugar and cakes, the streets were paved with pastry, and the shops supplied goods for nothing.\" London has been so called (see Cockney), but Boileau applies the same to Paris.\n\nThe Peach Blossom Spring, a prose written by the Chinese writer Tao Yuanming (c. 220 - 589 CE), describes a utopian place. The narrative goes that a fisherman from Wuling sailed upstream a river and came across a beautiful blossoming peach grove and lush green fields covered with blossom petals. Entranced by the beauty, he continued upstream. When he reached the end of the river, he stumbled onto a small grotto. Though narrow at first, he was able to squeeze through the passage and discovered an ethereal utopia, where the people led an ideal existence in harmony with nature. He saw a vast expanse of fertile lands, clear ponds, mulberry trees, bamboo groves, and the like with a community of people of all ages and houses in neat rows. The people explained that their ancestors escaped to this place during the civil unrest of the Qin dynasty and they themselves had not left since or had contact with anyone from the outside. They had not even heard of the later dynasties of bygone times or the then-current Jin dynasty. In the story, the community was secluded and unaffected by the troubles of the outside world. The sense of timelessness was also predominant in the story as a perfect utopian community remains unchanged, that is, it had no decline nor the need to improve. Eventually, the Chinese term \"Peach Blossom Spring\" (桃花源) came to be synonymous for the concept of utopia.\n\nDatong is a traditional Chinese Utopia. The main description of it is found in the Chinese Classic of Rites, in the chapter called \"Li Yun\" (禮運). Later, Datong and its ideal of 'The World Belongs to Everyone/The World is Held in Common' 'Tianxia weigong/天下为公' 'influenced modern Chinese reformers and revolutionaries, such as Kang Youwei.\n\nSchlaraffenland is an analogous German tradition.\n\nAll these myths also express some hope that the idyllic state of affairs they describe is not irretrievably and irrevocably lost to mankind, that it can be regained in some way or other.\n\nOne way might be a quest for an \"earthly paradise\"—a place like Shangri-La, hidden in the Tibetan mountains and described by James Hilton in his utopian novel \"Lost Horizon\" (1933). Christopher Columbus followed directly in this tradition in his belief that he had found the Garden of Eden when, towards the end of the 15th century, he first encountered the New World and its indigenous inhabitants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44854826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44854826", "title": "Viroinformatics", "text": "Viroinformatics\n\nViroinformatics is an amalgamation of virology with bioinformatics, involving the application of information and communication technology in various aspects of viral research. \nCurrently there are more than 100 web servers and databases harboring knowledge regarding different viruses as well as distinct applications concerning diversity analysis, viral recombination, RNAi studies, drug design, protein–protein interaction, structural analysis etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "29065882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29065882", "title": "Walter Davis (footballer)", "text": "Walter Davis (footballer)\n\nWalter Otto Davis (29 September 1888 – 20 May 1937) was a Welsh professional footballer who played at centre forward for Millwall for ten years in the 1910s. He also made five appearances for the Welsh national team.\n\nDavis was born in Mold, Flintshire, and was one of six brothers. His second name came from a German soldier who was a friend of his father.\n\nWhen he was still a child, his family moved to London, where his father, W.J. Davis, became an alderman in West Ham and chairman of the governors of the Municipal Central Secondary School in Tennyson Road before serving as the mayor in 1920–21.\n\nWhen one of his brothers died whilst playing in a junior football match at Leytonstone, his parents ordered Walter to stop playing football. After he joined the army, he joined the 2nd Bedfordshire Regiment and was stationed in Gibraltar where he played football for the Army. On leaving the army in 1911, he joined Metrogas, but turned professional with Millwall of the Southern League shortly afterwards. In January 1912, he scored Millwall's only goal in their FA Cup First Round match at First Division Bury.\n\nDavis was a deadly finisher, with exceptional speed and ball control and in the 1912–13 season, he emerged as a \"goalscoring sensation\" and soon attracted \"fabulous offers\" from Football League clubs. He was the Lions' leading goalscorer in each season he played, and he holds the record as Millwall's leading goalscorer in the Southern League. Davis was a wonderful dribbler with a fine body swerve, but also had a fierce shot from almost any distance.\n\nIn 1914, Millwall again came up against First Division opposition in the FA Cup, with Davis scoring the only goal against Chelsea in the First Round replay. He scored again against Bradford City in Round Two, before going out to yet another club from the First Division, Sheffield United. The goal he scored against Bradford was considered by many to be the best ever scored at The Den and was described by the national papers as a \"wonder goal\"; he received the ball from a throw-in around the half-way line, sidestepped his marker, beat both full-backs and then slipped the ball past the keeper into the net. The following season, Davis again scored against opponents from the Football League First Division, but Bolton Wanderers went through after a second replay.\n\nDavis was called up by Wales, making his debut in a 1–0 victory against Ireland on 18 January 1913. He retained his place for the next four matches, scoring a goal from 30 yards against England at Bristol on 17 March.\n\nHe also represented the Southern League several times and won a London Challenge Cup and two Kent Senior Shield medals in his time at Millwall.\n\nDuring World War I, Davis served in Italy where he incurred injuries to his legs. During the war he occasionally turned out for Millwall, including in a match against Clapton Orient in which he scored a hat-trick wearing army boots.\n\nDavis was forced to retire from football early in 1919 as a result of an injury to his knee and took up employment as a groundsman with Chelmsford, before working as a labourer in the London Docks. He was found drowned in Bow Creek on 20 May 1937 in mysterious circumstances as he was a strong swimmer. The coroner's jury recorded an open verdict.\n\nDavis made five appearances for Wales in international matches, as follows:\n\n"}
