{"id": "227722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227722", "title": "1535 in literature", "text": "1535 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1535.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1585227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1585227", "title": "1574 in music", "text": "1574 in music\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1991390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1991390", "title": "Academy of American Poets", "text": "Academy of American Poets\n\nThe Academy of American Poets is a national, member-supported organization that promotes poets and the art of poetry. The nonprofit organization was incorporated in the state of New York in 1934. It fosters the readership of poetry through outreach activities such as National Poetry Month, its website Poets.org, the syndicated series Poem-a-Day, \"American Poets\" magazine, readings and events, and poetry resources for K-12 educators. In addition, it sponsors a portfolio of nine major poetry awards, of which the first was a fellowship created in 1946 to support a poet and honor \"distinguished achievement,\" and more than 200 prizes for student poets.\n\nIn 1984, Robert Penn Warren noted that \"To have great poets there must be great audiences, Whitman said, to the more or less unheeding ears of American educators. Ambitiously, hopefully, the Academy has undertaken to remedy this plight.\" In 1998, Dinitia Smith described the Academy of American Poets as \"a venerable body at the symbolic center of the American poetry establishment.\" In 2013, Carolyn Forché described the Academy of American Poets as \"the most important organization in our country helping to keep poetry alive and in our culture.\" \n\nThe Academy of American Poets was created in 1934 in New York City by 23-year-old Marie Bullock with a mission to \"support American poets at all stages of their careers and to foster the appreciation of contemporary poetry.\" In 1936, the Academy of American Poets was officially incorporated as a nonprofit organization. Marie Bullock was the president of the Academy of American Poets for the next half a century, running the organization out of her apartment for thirty of those years. In 1982, Marie Bullock received a Mayor's Award of Honor for Arts and Culture. She also had received the Gold Medal of the National Institute of Social Sciences, the Award for Distinguished Service to the Arts from the National Institute of Arts and Letters. \n\nSince its earliest days, the Academy of American Poets has been guided by an honorary Board of Chancellors composed of established and award-winning poets who serve as advisors to the organization and judge its largest prizes for poets. Past Chancellors include W. H. Auden, Elizabeth Bishop, Lucille Clifton, Robert Creeley, Marianne Moore, and Mark Strand. Women as well as men were founding poets of the Academy; for example, Florence Hamilton.\n\nAs of 2018, the fifteen Chancellors of the Academy of American Poets are: Elizabeth Alexander, Ellen Bass, Marilyn Chin, Kwame Dawes, Forrest Gander, Linda Gregerson, Terrance Hayes, Brenda Hillman, Marie Howe, Khaled Mattawa, Marilyn Nelson, Alicia Ostriker, Claudia Rankine, Alberto Ríos, and David St. John.\n\nThe Academy of American Poets administers several programs: National Poetry Month; the website Poets.org, which includes a curated collection of poems and essays about poetry, over 800 recordings and videos of poets dating back to the 1960s, and free materials for K-12 teachers, including lesson plans; the syndicated series, Poem-a-Day; and \"American Poets\" magazine. The organization also awards nine major prizes for poets, as well as 200 college awards sponsored at schools across the country.\n\nIn 1998, Fred Viebahn, husband of African-American poet Rita Dove, drew media attention to the lack of diversity on the Academy's Board of Chancellors; up until then, no poet of color had ever been elected to be a Chancellor, and only very few women. Subsequently two female Chancellors, Maxine Kumin and Carolyn Kizer, resigned in protest. The Academy responded by instituting major changes and designating several new chancellors, including African-American poets Lucille Clifton and Yusef Komunyakaa. \n\nElizabeth Kray was hired in 1963 as the first executive director of the Academy of American Poets, and she served the organization until 1981. William Wadsworth served as executive director from 1989-2001. In 2012, poet and nonprofit administrator Jennifer Benka was named executive director of the Academy of American Poets.\n\nAwards are listed in chronological order of their creation.\n\nOne Academy of American Poets Fellowship is awarded annually for \"distinguished poetic achievement\": Fellows are awarded a stipend which is presently $25,000. The Fellowship program was created in 1946, and was the first of the organization's current portfolio of awards; the Academy's website Poets.org describes it as \"the first of its kind in the United States.\"\n\nFormerly known as the Lamont Poetry Selection, the Laughlin Award is given in recognition of a poet's second published book, and is considered to be the only major award honoring the publication of a poet's second book.\n\nThe award was first established in 1954 by a bequest from the wife of Thomas W. Lamont, who specified that it be used \"for the discovery and encouragement of new poetic genius.\" In 1959, Harvey Shapiro referred to the award as \"roughly, a Pulitzer for bardlings.\"\nInitially, the Lamont Poetry Selection was awarded to a poet's first published book; copies of the book were purchased from its publisher for distribution to the Academy's members. In 1975, the organization changed to selecting a poet's second volume; in an editorial, Peter Davison welcomed the change, suggesting that publishing a second volume was becoming more difficult than publishing the first.\n\nIn 1995, it was endowed by a gift from the Drue Heinz Trust, and it was renamed to honor James Laughlin, who founded the publishing house New Directions in 1936. At present, winners receive a cash prize of $5,000, an all-expenses-paid weeklong residency at The Betsy Hotel in Miami Beach, Florida, and the Academy of American Poets purchases one thousand copies of the winning book for distribution to its membership; the purchase and distribution essentially guarantee that the book becomes \"a bestseller in the tiny poetry market.\"\n\nEdward Field has described the importance of receiving the Award to his career as follows:\nSeveral of the Award's recipients have subsequently won the highest honors given to mature poets. Donald Hall was named Poet Laureate of the United States in 2004. Donald Justice, Lisel Mueller, Philip Schultz, and Tracy K. Smith have each won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry.\n\nThe Academy first began awarding annual $100 prizes to student poets at ten American universities and colleges in 1955. The program has since expanded to include more than 200 schools. According to the Academy, most of these prizes are endowed in perpetuity, though some are funded through other arrangements with the school or through private donors. For a school to become part of the program, a $2,500 endowment contribution is required. Individual schools set the winning criteria for their awards, within the guidelines set by the Academy: winners must be registered students at the school and the school cannot restrict the themes or styles of the entries.\n\nThe Lenore Marshall Poetry Prize is awarded annually for the best volume of poetry written by a living U.S. citizen and published in the previous year in the United States. The Prize was created in 1975 by the New Hope Foundation of Pennsylvania, which was a philanthropic foundation created by Lenore Marshall and her husband, James Marshall, to \"support the arts and the cause of world peace\"; Lenore Marshall, a poet, novelist, editor, and peace activist, had died in 1971.\n\nThe Prize was initially administered by the \"Saturday Review\" magazine. Following the folding of \"Saturday Review\", the Prize was administered by \"The Nation\" magazine. In 1995, administration of the Prize became the responsibility of the Academy of American Poets; the Prize has a permanent endowment, and the cash value of the prize is currently $25,000.\n\nThe Academy of American Poets currently announces three judges for each year's competition in advance. There has been some criticism of the Academy's procedures for mitigating the judges' conflicts of interest, since the judges are often acquainted with some of the poets whose volumes are nominated.\n\nNamed after poet Walt Whitman, the award is based on a competition of book-length poetry manuscripts by American poets who have not yet published a book. It has been described as \"a transformative honor that includes publication and distribution of the book though the Academy, $5,000 in cash and a residency at the Civitella Ranieri Foundation.\" The Library of Congress includes the Award among distinctions noted for poets, as does \"The New York Times\", which also occasionally publishes articles about new awards.\n\nThe award was established in 1975. In a \"New York Times\" opinion piece from 1985, the novelist John Barth noted that 1475 manuscripts had been entered into one of the Whitman Award competitions, which exceeded the number of subscribers to some poetry journals. From 1992 to 2014, Louisiana State University Press published each volume as part of its \"Walt Whitman Award Series\" Beginning 2015, Graywolf Press published the winning manuscript. The Academy purchases and distributes copies to its members, along with copies of the winning volume for the James Laughlin Award.\n\nThis $1,000 award recognizes a poetry collection translated from any language into English and published in the previous calendar year. Established in 1976, it is given annually. A noted translator chooses the winning book.\n\nNamed for Wallace Stevens, the award was established in 1994 by Dorothea Tanning to \"recognize outstanding and proven mastery in the art of poetry\". Nominations are not accepted. The winner, who must be an American citizen, is chosen by the Academy of American Poets Board of Chancellors and receives $100,000.\n\nEstablished in 1995, the award seeks to recognize American translators for \"outstanding translations into English of modern Italian poetry\" that have been published through non-self-publication means. The prize alternates annually between a straight $10,000 book price and a fellowship at the American Academy in Rome and $20,000 for use in advancing a \"significant work-in-progress\", such as through travel or study. The award is administered for the New York Community Trust and funded by a bequest from Sonia Raiziss Giop.\n\nEstablished in 2013, the Aliki Perroti and Seth Frank Most Promising Young Poet Award recognizes a student poet twenty-three years old or younger, with an annual cash prize of $1,000. \n\nEstablished in 2017, the Ambroggio Prize is the only annual award of its kind in the United States that honors American poets whose first language is Spanish. It is a $1,000 publication prize given for a book-length poetry manuscript originally written in Spanish and with an English translation. Luis Alberto Ambroggio sponsored the prize to \"celebrate poets in the United States writing in Spanish as an important part of our rich American poetic tradition.\"\n\nPast awards include the Copernicus Award (from 1974 to 1977), the Edgar Allan Poe Award (from 1974 to 1977), and the Peter I. B. Lavan Younger Poets Award (from 1983 to 1994).\n"}
{"id": "37946410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37946410", "title": "Adoration of the Shepherds (Domenichino)", "text": "Adoration of the Shepherds (Domenichino)\n\nThe painting of the Adoration of the Shepherds of c. 1607–10 by the Italian 17th century master Domenichino has been in the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh since 1971, and was previously in the Dulwich Picture Gallery in London.\n\nThe painting shows a fairly conventional depiction of this very common scene, with some unusual details. The number of shepherds is rather large at nine, and the pose of the shepherd pointing at the baby Jesus while looking over his shoulder outside the picture space suggests that more are arriving. Or possibly he has seen the approaching Magi, the next arrivals in the traditional narrative. Saint Joseph, often a rather superfluous figure in paintings of the Nativity, is shown making himself useful by carrying hay, presumably to feed the ox and ass, in the background, so filling a gap in the composition, and perhaps distracting them from joining in with the bagpipe music. The relegation of the ox and ass to a dimly-lit background is typical of 17th century compositions.\n\nA prominently placed shepherd on the left side of the group is shown playing his bagpipes. Though the shepherds sometimes carry musical instruments, often including pipes (see gallery below), they are less often shown playing them at this solemn moment, as opposed to the earlier scene of the Annunciation to the Shepherds where an angel appears to them with their flocks. If music is shown being performed beside the crib it is more often by angels. A charming but atypical miniature in the 15th-century Flemish \"La Flora Hours\" in Naples shows a shepherd playing his bagpipes as his two companions dance for the infant Jesus and a delighted Virgin Mary sits to one side. Outside his painting, Domeninchino had a serious interest in musical instruments and their design, which his paintings sometimes reflect. He designed and himself constructed instruments intended to be suitable for playing ancient music.\nThe inclusion of the shepherd's dog, especially right by the crib, is unusual, though the shepherds very often have one in scenes of their annunciation, and sometimes bring a lamb to the crib as a gift; here the dove held by the boy in the foreground is intended to represent a gift. In the 17th century the shepherds often crowd round the crib, as here, and Mary actively displays her child to them. However her gesture of lifting a cloth, revealing a full view of a naked Jesus, including his penis, is unusual in art by this date. In the late medieval period pictures of the infant Jesus often made a point of displaying his genitals for theological reasons, but in the Counter-Reformation this was discouraged by clerical interpreters of the vague decrees on art of the Council of Trent, such as Saint Charles Borromeo.\n\nThe 17th-century art historian Gian Pietro Bellori makes the first mention of this work and describes it as a copy of a lost work by Annibale Carracci. Domenichino had been trained in Bologna by Annibale's brother Ludovico Carracci, and after moving to Rome in 1602 joined the circle of Annibale, who had already made the move there around the time Domenichino began to work with Ludovico. At this relatively early period in his career Domenichino copied several works by Annibale, and Bellori's statement has been generally accepted. However it seems that Bellori probably never saw the Carracci original, and no certain documentation for its subsequent history has been found. There is evidence bearing on the development of the composition in the form of a number of drawings by both Annibale and Domenichino, and two paintings by Giovanni Lanfranco, another young artist in the circle, that are based on the lost Carracci (one known only from a further copy).\n\nThere has been a good deal of academic discussion on the matter, without a clear consensus being found as to how close Domenichino's composition is to the lost Carracci. The main Lanfranco, now at Alnwick Castle, is clearly related to the Domenichino, but has substantial differences, being in a horizontal format and with none of the poses of the figures exactly the same, and several substantially different. The possibility remains that Bellori was \"slightly mistaken\" and that the phantom Carracci \"Adoration\" was never painted and that Domenichino was only working from drawings by Carracci, who painted little after a serious illness in 1605, but did produce an etching of this subject in about 1606.\n\nMost of the large collection of workshop drawings left by Domenichino passed through the Albani Collection before ending up in the British Royal Collection, bought for George III; there are over 1,750 sheets at Windsor Castle today. These include a sheet with studies of the Edinburgh figures of Joseph on one side and the bagpiper on the other. Drawings can be regarded by different scholars as either copies of something already existing, sketches where an artist works out something new, or adaptations that are something in between, and this ambiguity has affected discussion of this question. Hugh Brigstocke, in the National Gallery of Scotland catalogue, sees this sheet as studies by Domenichino for new figures for his version of Carracci's composition, after Domenichino decided to add the bagpiper to strengthen the composition, necessitating a new position for Joseph. Other details, such as the boy with the dove, borrow from other drawings by Annibale Carracci.\n\nThe history of the painting before 1813 is unclear, and complicated by possible confusion with the lost model by Annibale Carracci. There is an engraving of the painting, described as being by Domenichino, which however omits certain details, suggesting it was made from a preparatory drawing also lacking these. Domenichino is mentioned by Bellori and described as a copy of a Carracci, which Bellori probably had never seen and did not know the whereabouts of. Bellori, in his book of artists' biographies published in 1672, said the Domenichino had recently left Rome for France. A \"Nativity\" attributed to Annibale Carracci, which might be either the original or the copy, is recorded by André Félibien as being in the large collection of Jean-Baptiste Colbert (1619–83), the famous finance minister of Louis XIV. According to Pierre-Jean Mariette the picture in the engraving belonged to the Orleans Collection, although it does not seem to appear in any of the inventories. This collection had received a significant addition from Colbert's heir Jean-Baptiste Colbert, Marquis de Seignelay. Most of the paintings of the Orleans Collection were taken to London and dispersed during the French Revolution, but again this painting is not identifiable among the records of the sales and other transactions recording this process.\n\nThe painting's history is certain after it appears in a list of 1813 of the paintings bequeathed to Alleyn's College the charity owning Dulwich College, a school in the London suburbs, by Sir Francis Bourgeois in 1811. It was described as by Annibale Carracci here, and only finally confirmed as a Domenichino in 1906–7 by Hans Tietze, an attribution since accepted by all writers. The Dulwich Picture Gallery was founded to hold the Bourgeois bequest and other artworks owned by the charity, and the painting hung there until it was controversially sold by the trustees in 1971. It was sold at auction for £100,000 by Sotheby's London on 24 March 1971, and bought by the National Gallery of Scotland. The sale was the subject of an adjournment debate in the House of Commons on May 13, 1971, where both the trustees and the minister whose consent had been necessary for the sale to occur were criticised by George Strauss M.P., especially for only publicising the sale three weeks before the auction. For a month over Christmas and New Year 2011/12 the painting returned to Dulwich as part of the celebrations for the gallery's bicentenary.\n\nThe picture is in good condition, but the blues in the robes of the Virgin and the shepherd standing at right, as well as the yellow of the boy holding the dove, have \"been affected by chemical change\".\n\nA number of paintings from the 1530s and 1540s show a shepherd with bagpipes inflated, and the chanter pipe being fingered, but the mouthpiece not actually being blown.\n"}
{"id": "16089082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16089082", "title": "Aesthetic emotions", "text": "Aesthetic emotions\n\nAesthetic emotions are emotions that are felt during aesthetic activity or appreciation. These emotions may be of the everyday variety (such as fear, wonder or sympathy) or may be specific to aesthetic contexts. Examples of the latter include the sublime, the beautiful, and the kitsch. In each of these respects, the emotion usually constitutes only a part of the overall aesthetic experience, but may play a more or less definitive function for that state.\n\nThe relation between aesthetic emotions and other emotions is traditionally said to rely on the disinterestedness of the aesthetic experience (see Kant especially). Aesthetic emotions do not motivate practical behaviours in the way that other emotions do (such as fear motivating avoidance behaviours).\n\nThe capacity of artworks to arouse emotions such as fear is a subject of philosophical and psychological research. It raises problems such as the paradox of fiction in which one responds with sometimes quite intense emotions to art, even whilst knowing that the scenario presented is fictional (see for instance the work of Kendall Walton). Another issue is the problem of imaginative resistance, which considers why we are able to imagine many far-fetched fictional truths but experience comparative difficulty imagining that different moral standards hold in a fictional world. This problem was first raised by David Hume, and was revived in current discussion by Richard Moran, Kendall Walton and Tamar Gendler (who introduced the term in its current usage in a 2000 article by the same name). Some forms of artwork seem to be dedicated to the arousal of particular emotions. For instance horror films seek to arouse feelings of fear or disgust; comedies seek to arouse amusement or happiness, tragedies seek to arouse sympathy or sadness, and melodramas try to arouse pity and empathy.\n\nIn the philosophy of music, scholars have argued whether instrumental music such as symphonies are simply abstract arrangements and patterns of musical pitches (\"absolute music\"), or whether instrumental music depicts emotional tableaux and moods (\"program music\"). Despite the assertions of philosophers advocating the \"absolute music\" argument, the typical symphony-goer does interpret the notes and chords of the orchestra emotionally; the opening of a Romantic-era symphony, in which minor chords thunder over low bass notes is often interpreted by layperson listeners as an expression of sadness in music.\n\nAlso called \"abstract music\", absolute music is music that is not explicitly \"about\" anything, non-representational or non-objective. Absolute music has no references to stories or images or any other kind of extramusical idea. The aesthetic ideas underlying the absolute music debate relate to Kant's aesthetic disinterestedness from his \"Critique of Aesthetic Judgment\", and has led to numerous arguments, including a war of words between Brahms and Wagner. In the 19th century, a group of early Romantics including Johann Wolfgang Goethe and E.T.A. Hoffmann gave rise to the idea of what can be labeled as spiritual absolutism. \"Formalism\" is the concept of ‘music for music’s sake’ and refers only to instrumental music without words. The 19th century music critic Eduard Hanslick argued that music could be enjoyed as pure sound and form, that it needed no connotation of extra-musical elements to warrant its existence.\n\n"}
{"id": "45718941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45718941", "title": "All About Them", "text": "All About Them\n\nAll About Them (French title: À trois on y va) is a 2015 French romantic comedy film directed by Jérôme Bonnell. It stars Anaïs Demoustier, Félix Moati and Sophie Verbeeck.\n\nMicha and Charlotte are a couple who have recently bought a house near Lille. For the past few months, the two slowly drift apart and Charlotte starts cheating on Micha with their mutual friend Mélodie who works as a lawyer. Little does Charlotte know, Micha also starts cheating on her with the same person, Mélodie. Mélodie ends up falling in love with both of them while she becomes the secret lover of both Micha and Charlotte.\n\n"}
{"id": "31837113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31837113", "title": "Apocryphal biographies in the Dictionary of National Biography", "text": "Apocryphal biographies in the Dictionary of National Biography\n\nThere are apocryphal biographies in the first edition (1885–1900) of the \"Dictionary of National Biography\" (DNB), a major work on historical biography related to the United Kingdom. In other words, there is a biography that presents a life of a person asserted to have existed, but (in the light of later scholarship) the evidence for the person having lived has become regarded as tenuous or non-existent.\n\nExamples are in , based on the updated \"Oxford Dictionary of National Biography\" (ODNB), where the corresponding article casts serious doubt on the DNB assertions.\n\nKirkman Finlay—supposed: (\"c.\" 1802–1828) was an alleged Scottish philhellene.\n\nThe DNB has an article on this man, but more modern scholarship refutes its credibility. Monica Clough in the 21st century ODNB explains how the original source for the DNB probably confused fact with fiction and concludes by citing and quoting C. R. Fay (1951):\nRobert de Brus [Bruce] supposed nobleman, based on late medieval lists of those who fought at Hastings, which are wholly unreliable.\n\n\"A half or wholly mythical personage.\" If he is not a literary invention, then he represents a supporter of Malcolm III of Scotland, descended from Dub, King of Scotland.\n\n"}
{"id": "351471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=351471", "title": "Art of Romania", "text": "Art of Romania\n\nArt of Romania encompasses the artists and artistic movements in Romania.\n\n"}
{"id": "171613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171613", "title": "Before Night Falls", "text": "Before Night Falls\n\nBefore Night Falls () is the 1992 autobiography of Cuban writer Reinaldo Arenas, describing his early life in Cuba, his time in prison, and his escape to the United States in the Mariel Boatlift of 1980. It received a favorable review from \"The New York Times\" and was on the newspaper's list of the ten best books of 1993. The book was adapted into a film of the same name in 2000, starring Javier Bardem and Johnny Depp.\n\nOn May 29, 2010 the premiere performance of \"Before Night Falls\", an opera by Jorge Martín, took place at the Fort Worth Opera. The opera follows the book by Reinaldo Arenas closely.\n\nOn March 29, 2017, Florida Grand Opera premiered \"Before Night Falls\" in Miami with five performances at the Adrienne Arsht Center for the Performing Arts.\n"}
{"id": "33291980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33291980", "title": "Bodfeld", "text": "Bodfeld\n\nBodfeld was a small royal palace or lodge () that was primarily established for hunting purposes and, when the town of Elbingerode was emerged, for the administration of ore mining in the central Harz that underpinned the power of the Ottonian and Salian kings and emperors in medieval Europe. The term Bodfeld is also used to describe an area of forest that lies predominantly south of Elbingerode. \n\nToday, the ruins of the legendary \"palace\" of Bodfeld are suspected to lie on a hill spur called the \"Schloßkopf\" north of Elbingerode.\n\nSurviving documents record at least 17 occasions when kings or emperors stayed at Bodfeld whilst hunting in the Harz. Henry I stayed in Bodfeld several times, for example he fell ill here in 935. Otto I characterised Bodfeld in 936 as a hunting lodge (\"Jagdhof\"); he visited Bodfeld at least 3 times and Otto II four times. Otto III spent at least 14 days in Bodfeld in 991 together with his grandmother, Adelheid, and visited it again in 995. Conrad II was recorded there once, and Henry III at least four times. The last document issued by him was written in Bodfeld (28 September 1056). Henry III died in Bodfeld after a seven-day illness on 5 October 1056 in the presence of the pope and many imperial princes. Henry IV became King of the Germans in Bodfeld in 1056.\n\nTowards the end of the 13th century the royal hunting lodge at Bodfeld and its exact location began to sink into oblivion. However, thanks to intensive research by Paul Höfer memories of Bodfeld were re-awakened at the end of the 19th century. In view of the place name Königshof (Königshütte since 1936 when it merged with Rothehütte) he wrongly believed it to be the Königsburg on a rocky hill above the confluence of the Warme and Kalte Bode. He publicized this several times in the Harz Association's magazine for history and archaeology. Others supported his view including C. Schuchhardt in his 1924 publication, \"Fortresses of the Early Historical Period in Lower Saxony\". In 1933 castle researcher, Paul Grimm, proved that the Königsburg could never have existed in the era of the Saxon kings, but had been built later. His evidence was the fact that in excavations of the Königsburg no trace of red pottery had been found. In the run up to this, Schuchhardt had already changed his opinion in 1931. \n\nGrimm now suspected Bodfeld to be on the other, northern side of the River Bode in the vicinity or on the site of the abandoned village of \"Lüttgen-Bodfeld\", whose church, St. Andrew's, had been uncovered in the 19th century. He did not reach a definite conclusion, however, and wrote: \"Confirmation of the exact location of the Bodfeld hunting lodge remains the subject of further research.\" In 1940, the diplomat, Carl Erdmann, also questioned Höfer's thesis and agreed with Grimm. Other researchers, such as Friedrich Stolberg, author of the standard work first published in 1967, \"Fortifications in and around the Harz from Early History to the Modern Period\", followed suit and wrote: \"The Königsburg near Königshütte is not directly related to the royal hunting lodge of Bodfeld on the other side of the Bode\" It was only the most modern infra red aerial photographic technology and most recent archaeological analysis of excavated stone artefacts that confirmed the hitherto suspected presence of a royal lodge from the Ottonian period on the Schloßkopf by the upper reaches of the Teufelsbach in the Drecktal valley northeast of Elbingerode. This could well be the royal lodge of Bodfeld which, characteristically for the period of its construction, was built on a hill spur (see also Königspfalz Werla) although the River Bode that gave the lodge its name is about four to five kilometres from here. However, that appears to be irrelevant because the medieval Bodfeld was an extensive area of territory. \n\nIn terms of its design, the site on the Schloßkopf resembles the \"Pfalz\" of Grone laid out by Henry I. Based on Henry's written records, Carl Erdmann described the king, who was buried in Quedlinburg, as the owner of Bodfeld and proves that \"Bodfeld cannot be judged to have the political character of a 'Pfalz'\". This underscores the fact that resident monarchs in Bodfeld patently did not come here to celebrate an important church festival, whereas they always did in other places such as Quedlinburg, Magdeburg or Goslar. In 1967, Friedrich Stolberg, however, pointed out that this site was related to Saxon hunting lodges like Siptenfelde and its proximity to the Königsstieg (\"King's Path\") suggests there is a connexion. In all probability there was also a link between this hunting house (\"Jagdhaus\") mentioned in 1483 and 1531 and the village of Erdfeld on the old Halberstadt Military Road, mentioned in 1343 in a deed by the Count of Regenstein and which lay just 1½ kilometres away. Erdfeld was abandoned in the late Middle Ages in favour of nearby Elbingerode. \n\nFrom Heinz A. Behrens, historian and building archaeologist, who conducted the most recent research, we now have a reconstructed picture of the whole site thanks to archaeological and geo-electric surveys. There is an information board at the site which shows that the lodge was extensive yet defensible; it had a chapel, two round towers, a great hall, a second assembly hall, other residential buildings, gatehouse and stone walls on two sides.\n\nBodfeld is also the name of an area of forest which Henry II ceded to Gandersheim Abbey in 1009 as part of an exchange. Its boundaries may be deduced from an enfeoffment letter by Abbess Sophia of Gandersheim dating to the year A.D. 1319. According to that this forest area extended from Braunlage in the west to Elbingerode in the northeast and to Stiege and Beneckenstein in the south.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44420131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44420131", "title": "Caves in the district of Maros", "text": "Caves in the district of Maros\n\nThe Caves in the district of Maros are located in Bantimurung district (\"kecamatan\"), South Sulawesi, Indonesia. They contain paintings from the paleolithic.\n\nThe Caves in the district of Maros are a cave complex, where prehistoric finds were made. The whole complex is also called \"Prehistoric place Leang-Leang\" – the name stems from the Makassarese language. The various caves - named Pettae, Jane, Saripa, Jarie, Karrasa, and so on - consist of limestone. They are located from the town of Maros and from the city of Makassar. The entrance to the caves is located above a rice field, accessible by ladder.\n\nA hand stencil in the Leang Tempuseng cave was dated to at least 39,900 years old in a 2014 study. The depiction of a babirusa is also located in this cave. It is estimated to be 35,400 years old. The art works were examined with the help of the Uranium-Thorium method of the sintering on the paintings.\n\nInside the entrance of the Pettakare cave, on the roof, are 26 red and white hand prints, they are not dated, yet. Primitive stencils of human hands, the white prints were executed by \"placing the hand up against the wall and then blowing a mixture of red ochre and water around them, leaving a negative image on the rock\". The red hand prints could have been produced by immersing the hand in a solution tinted red from \"chewed-up foliage\". The hand prints face both left and right. Some are missing a thumb; it was common practice to cut off a finger when an elder died. According to an official with the Makassar Center for Cultural and Heritage Preservation, the palm of the hand was believed to have power to ward off \"evil forces and wild animals\", thus protecting the people who lived inside the cave. In addition to the hand prints, a roughly half-meter (two-foot) long painting of a red hog deer is in the middle.\n\nPettakare cave's large room has several small niches, presumed to have been sleeping places for the people who lived there. The cave has a temperature of during the daytime.\n\nThe caves have been known and used by the local people for a long time. Dutch archaeologists began digging at nearby caves during the 1950s, but Pettakare cave was first examined by British archaeologist Ian Glover in 1973.\n\nScientific examinations conducted in 2011 estimated that the hand stencils and animal painting on the walls were between 35,000 and 40,000 years old. The age of the paintings was estimated through analysis of small radioactive traces of uraniam isotopes present in the crust that had accumulated on top of the paintings. The hand paintings are at least as old as cave paintings in Europe, such as those at the Cave of El Castillo (Spain) and Gorham's Cave (Gibraltar).\n\nIn October 2014 the Indonesian government promised to \"step up\" the protection of ancient cave paintings, and announced plans to place all the caves in Sulawesi on the nation's official \"cultural heritage\" list, as well as apply for inclusion on UNESCO's list of World Heritage Sites.\n\n"}
{"id": "40691547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40691547", "title": "Centro d'Arte Modigliani", "text": "Centro d'Arte Modigliani\n\nModigliani Art Center (\"Centro d'Arte Modigliani\") is an art center founded in 1979 based in Scandicci, a suburb of Florence, Italy in Tuscany. The cultural center develops visual arts and literature via shows and conferences about renowned artists, poets and writers. It also develops artists, poets and writers whose work is less well known or debuting publicly. The center is named in honor of Amedeo Modigliani, an Italian modernist painter who lived and worked mostly in France.\n\nThe membership is approximately 100 poets, painters and authors as well as cultural advocates and sympathizers. Most of the membership is residents of Florence, Scandicci and other Tuscan towns, with some from other Italian regions and some foreign international members.\n\nSome of the artists contribute to events and hold elections to nominate honorary members of various fields based on their talent and cultural development of our activities.\n\nModigliani Art Center conducts artistic and cultural activities. It sometimes program events with outside collaboration that involves the works by artists, poets and writers who are not also members of the art association. The center's international artistic and cultural collaborations for over 30 years have been involved with the cities of Paris, Moscow and London. Some of these activities are organized to support the values of human cultural solidarity and Peace.\n\nThe Center is active in reviving the custom of twinning between the cities. They received an invitation from French artists and the \"Twinning Council\" of Pantin (Paris), France and inaugurated their XXXIV Year Salon of Painting with the Pantin art association \"Les Amis des Arts\" (\"Friends of Art\").\n\nThe Modigliani Art Center organizes several artistic and cultural activities yearly. The events are exhibitions and reviews of contemporary fine art, poetry readings, and conference presentations of books including poetry, essays, and novels. A lecture series offers debate and discussion on literary themes, contemporary history, art criticism and art history.\n\nThese activities are predominantly organized in Scandicci, Florence and in other Tuscan towns, but have been held in other Italian regions as well as internationally.\n\n\"Centro d'Arte Modigliani\" organized 65 cultural events in 2010, and 50 events in 2011.\n\nRoberto Cellini is the President, curator and Creative Director of the Modigliani Art Center. Among noted poets on its Board of Directors are Duccia Camiciotti, and Caterina Trombetti. The British composer and artist Simon Rackham (who has exhibited work through the Modigliani association), has dedicated pieces to Roberto Cellini and Caterina Trombetti on the albums 'Dedications' and 'Once in a Blue Moonlight'.\n\n"}
{"id": "54450622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54450622", "title": "Chalkboard art", "text": "Chalkboard art\n\nChalkboard art or chalk art is the use of chalk on a blackboard as a visual art. It is similar to art using pastels and related to sidewalk art that often uses chalk. Chalkboard art is often used in restaurants, shops or walls.\n\nChalkboard art is ephemeral.\n\nChalkboard artists include Catherine Owens, Chris Yoon, Maggie Choate, Bryce Wisdom.\n"}
{"id": "43758196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43758196", "title": "Chingford War Memorial", "text": "Chingford War Memorial\n\nChingford War Memorial is a Grade II listed war memorial cross at the junction of King's Head Hill and The Ridgeway, Chingford, London, E4.\n\nIt was unveiled in 1921, and was designed by W. A. Lewis.\n\n"}
{"id": "33346439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33346439", "title": "Conceptual design", "text": "Conceptual design\n\nConceptual Design is an early phase of the design process, in which the broad outlines of function and form of something are articulated. It includes the design of interactions, experiences, processes and strategies. It involves an understanding of people's needs - and how to meet them with products, services, & processes. Common artifacts of conceptual design are concept sketches and models.\n\n"}
{"id": "49501167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49501167", "title": "Contemporary Irish Art Society", "text": "Contemporary Irish Art Society\n\nThe Contemporary Irish Art Society (CIAS) is an Irish society founded in 1962 to support the visual arts in Ireland. It purchases art works directly to donate to public galleries, as well as advising other bodies on works by living Irish artists. It also collects photographs.\n\nThe society's founders include Sir Basil Goulding, who served as the first chair, Cecil King, Gordon Lambert, Michael Scott and others. The first work purchased was \"Large Solar Device\" by Patrick Scott in 1963. During the 1960s and early 1970s it supported the Hugh Lane Gallery in Dublin, which received around forty works of art, including works by Gerard Dillon, Gerda Frömel, James Scanlon, William Scott and Camille Souter. Rosemarie Mulcahy calls Scanlon's \"Study no. 2 for Miró\", a stained glass donated by the society, \"one of the delights\" of the Hugh Lane collection.\n\nSince 1974, the society has donated works to the Butler Gallery, Irish Museum of Modern Art (IMMA), Kilkenny Castle, University of Galway and University College Dublin, among other institutions. In 1978, the society began to collect art works on paper, and its collection of these works was first exhibited in London and Ireland in 1980.\n\nIn 2005, the society held a joint exhibition with IMMA, SIAR 50, which showcased around a hundred works from the preceding 50 years collected by the society and its members. IMMA states that the collection documents \"almost all the major developments in Irish art over the past 50 years\" and notes \"The keen eye which its members brought to their choice of works is clearly evident in the number of artists, relatively unknown at the time of purchase, who have since gone on to become leading figures in the Irish, and indeed international, visual art arenas.\" In a review of the exhibition, art critic Brian Fallon called the society's collecting \"astute\" and stated that the exhibition was \"a highly representative selection of Irish art over nearly half a century.\" He also praised the collection of sculpture.\n\nContemporary Irish Art Society website\n"}
{"id": "33169034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33169034", "title": "Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage", "text": "Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage\n\nThe Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage is a UNESCO treaty adopted by the UNESCO General Conference on 17 October 2003. The convention entered into force in 2006, after thirtieth instruments of ratification by UNESCO Member States. As of September 2018, 178 states have ratified, approved or accepted the convention.\n\nThe Convention contains following provisions:\n\nI. General Provisions\n\nII. Organs of the Convention\n\nIII. Safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage at the national level\n\nIV. Safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage at the international level\n\nV. International cooperation and assistance\n\nVI. Intangible Cultural Heritage Fund\n\nVII. Reports\n\nVIII. Transitional clause\n\nIX. Final clauses\n\nUnlike other UNESCO conventions, this convention begins with stating its purposes, which are;\nIntangible cultural heritage refers to \"traditions or living expressions inherited from our ancestors and passed on to our descendants, such as oral traditions, performing arts, social practices, rituals, festive events, knowledge and practices concerning nature and the universe or the knowledge and skills to produce traditional crafts\". The Convention defines it as follows:\n\nThe Convention works on both national and international levels.\nAt the national level, State Parties are supposed to ‘take necessary measures to ensure the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage present in its territory.” These measures include identification of the intangible cultural heritage that exists in its territory, adoption of appropriate policies, promotion of education and so on. Besides, in taking these measures, each state parties must “endeavor to ensure the widest possible participation of communities, groups, and, where appropriate, individuals that create, maintain and transmit such heritage, and to involve them actively in its management”.\n\nAt the international level, this Convention promotes international cooperation, which includes “the exchange of information and experience, joint initiatives, and the establishment of a mechanism of assistance” to other State Parties.\n\nLists\n\nThe Committee to the Convention publishes and keeps up to date two lists of intangible cultural heritage, which are\n\nIntangible Cultural Heritage Fund\n\nThe Convention establishes Intangible Cultural Heritage Fund, the use of which is decided by the Committee. The fund mainly consists of the contributions by State Parties and funds by the General Conference of UNESCO.\n\nOne of the first international occasions that mentioned the preservation of 'intangible heritage' was the World Conference on Cultural Policies in Mexico City in 1982. This Conference defined cultural heritage as including “both tangible and intangible works through which the creativity of people finds expression,” and asked UNESCO and Member States to take measures for protecting this kind of heritage.\n\nIn 1989, UNESCO adopted the Recommendation on the Safeguarding of Traditional Culture and Folklore as the first legal instrument towards the safeguarding of intangible cultural heritage. This Recommendation reflected the ideas of the earlier Conference in Mexico City. UNESCO conducted some promotional programs for raising awareness of this Recommendation, but was not very successful. However, in the late 90's, there was a conference held for the assessment of this Recommendation, which pointed out some problems to be considered in drafting the Convention. In this sense, this Recommendation served as an important step.\n\nIn 1997, UNESCO launched the program of Proclamation of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity, intending to raise awareness of the importance of intangible heritage. This program proclaimed a total of 90 masterpieces between 2001 and 2005, and caused the movement toward the Convention.\n\nAccording to the request of Member States, a preliminary study, undertaken by Director-General, on how could the safeguarding of intangible cultural heritage be conducted, recommended to create a new document that set an international standard.\n\nIn 2001, the General Conference adopted another instrument, Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity, which also includes articles dealing with the preservation of ’heritage in all forms’. This declaration and its Action Plan presented basic idea of the coming convention and helped to develop it.\n\nAs a result of many meetings for two years, the draft Convention was brought into the General Conference and adopted in 2003.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4030712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4030712", "title": "Cuthbert Burbage", "text": "Cuthbert Burbage\n\nCuthbert Burbage (c. 15 June 1565 – 15 September 1636) was an English theatrical figure, son of James Burbage, builder of the Theatre in Shoreditch and elder brother of the actor Richard Burbage. From 1589 he was the owner of the ground lease of the Theatre. Best known for his central role in the construction of the Globe Theatre, he was for four decades a significant agent in the success and endurance of Shakespeare's company, the King's Men.\n\nThe Burbage family is now thought to have come to London from Bromley in Kent. Cuthbert Burbage, baptized 15 June 1565 at St. Stephen Coleman Street near the London Guildhall, was the elder of the two surviving sons of James Burbage (c.1531–1597) and Ellen Brayne (c.1542–1613), the daughter of Thomas Brayne (d.1562), a London tailor, and his wife, Alice Barlow (d.1566). His younger brother was the renowned actor, Richard Burbage. He had two sisters, Ellen (baptized 13 June 1574, buried 13 December 1596) and Alice (baptized 11 March 1576).\n\nBurbage's father found employment for him with Sir Walter Cope, a second cousin of Lady Burghley, and gentleman usher to William Cecil, 1st Baron Burghley. According to Wallace, Cuthbert Burbage's position as 'servant' to Cope was likely as a clerk in the Treasury.\n\nIn June 1586 he reached the age of majority, and joined his father in an ongoing legal dispute over the Theatre in Shoreditch. In August of that year the London grocer John Brayne, his father's brother-in-law, died, allegedly as a result of blows at the hands of his partner in the building of the George Inn in Whitechapel, the London goldsmith, Robert Miles, who was 'tried for murder' at a coroner's inquest.\n\nJames Burbage and Brayne had originally financed the building of the Theatre in Shoreditch together; it was later claimed that Brayne had bankrupted himself in so doing. However they had no written agreement governing the terms of their partnership, and had earlier fallen out. Brayne, who was childless, had failed to revise his will to leave his interest in the Theatre to James Burbage's children, as he had promised to do, and Burbage had failed to grant Brayne a half interest in the 21-year ground lease which he had signed with Giles Allen on 13 April 1576, and had kept it solely in his own name. On 9 August 1577 an assignment of lease had been drawn up, and on 22 May 1578 Burbage signed a bond in the amount of £400 requiring him to assign a half interest in the ground lease to Brayne, but this was never done. Brayne accused Burbage of double-dealing, and in the following month the partners submitted their dispute to arbitration by two friends, in the course of which Burbage struck Brayne and they fell to fisticuffs. On 12 July 1578 the arbitrators submitted the articles containing their decision, and both Burbage and Brayne signed bonds in the amount of £200 as a guarantee of performance.\n\nTo further complicate matters, in order to evade his creditors, not only with respect to the Theatre but also in connection with the building of the George Inn with Robert Miles, Brayne signed various deeds of gift of his property, and on 26 September 1579 Burbage borrowed £125 8s 11d from the London grocer John Hyde, in return for which he mortgaged the ground lease of the Theatre for a one-year term. Hyde was not repaid, and the ground lease was forfeited to Hyde on 27 September 1580. Hyde allowed Burbage to continue operating the Theatre and extended the lease, but it was again forfeited to Hyde for non-payment. Hyde had Burbage arrested for debt in June 1582, and tried to put Brayne out as part owner of the Theatre.\n\nIn the same year, 1582, Edmund Peckham sued Giles Allen over ownership of the ground on which the Theatre stood, and their dispute escalated to the point that, as Cuthbert Burbage later deposed in 1600, his father was forced to hire men to guard the Theatre both day and night. Performances were stopped, and Leicester's Men, who had been playing there, disbanded as a company. James Burbage then became Lord Hunsdon's man, and from 1583 on Hunsdon's Men, known as the Lord Chamberlain's Men from 1585, performed at the Theatre.\n\nThus, at the time of Brayne's death in August 1586, the only legal documents which established that Brayne had had any financial interest in the Theatre were the two bonds which he had managed to get Burbage to sign. James Burbage allowed Brayne's widow, Margaret (née Stowers), a share of the profits for a short time, but then cut her off. At about the same time Hyde, as legal owner of the forfeited ground lease, falsely represented that he had sold his interest to his father-in-law, George Clough, and tried to remove James Burbage from the Theatre and replace him with Clough.\n\nIn early 1587 Margaret Brayne, with financial backing from Robert Miles, sued James Burbage at common law in an attempt to either recover on the bonds or obtain a half interest in the ground lease and the profits of the Theatre. In the same year the executors of Robert Gardner, to whom Brayne had made one of his deeds of gift, also sued Burbage. In the autumn of 1588 Burbage brought an action of his own against Margaret Brayne in Chancery, and Margaret Brayne then counter-sued in Chancery. The legal battles between Burbage and the widow Brayne continued for a decade, with Burbage always emerging the victor.\n\nWhile these lawsuits were ongoing, both James Burbage and Margaret Brayne sought to obtain an assignment of the ground lease from Hyde. In June 1589 both James and Cuthbert Burbage sought help from Cuthbert's employer, Walter Cope, who accordingly wrote to Hyde suggesting that he, Cope, might be of service to Hyde with the Lord Treasurer, Lord Burghley, on some future occasion if Hyde would assign the ground lease of the Theatre to Cuthbert Burbage. With some reluctance Hyde complied, and on 7 June 1589 assigned his interest in the ground lease of the Theatre to Cuthbert Burbage. According to Wallace, James Burbage continued to manage the Theatre, and business went on much as before, 'but the Theatre itself was Cuthbert's'. Hyde said later that he would not have made the assignment had it not been for Cope's letter. Cuthbert Burbage was equally dissatisfied with the arrangement. He later deposed that he agreed only to save his father from debt, and was of the view that he could have used his influence with Cope to better personal advantage. He was forced to borrow money to pay Hyde, and although the amount is not known with certainty, a statement by Hyde himself indicates that it was almost the entire original debt of £125 8s 11d plus interest.\n\nThrough his ownership of the ground lease, Cuthbert Burbage was drawn further into the ongoing battles between his father and the widow Brayne. On 4 November 1590 she obtained a court order sequestering the Theatre property until the hearing of the case; however on 13 November Cuthbert succeeded in having that order stayed, and obtained an order for performance of the 1578 arbitration. On 16 November Margaret Brayne, Robert Miles and his son Ralph, and a friend, Nicholas Bishop, took a copy of the order to the Theatre to enforce its terms by taking half the profits from the gallery that day. They arrived just as playgoers were flocking in for a performance. James Burbage, after initial argument through a window of the Theatre, came down into the yard and called Robert Miles a knave and a rascal, and the widow Brayne a 'murdering whore'. James Burbage's wife and her son Richard Burbage, then only about nineteen, came into the yard and beat Robert Miles with a broomstaff. Richard Burbage, after 'scornfully and disdainfully playing with Nicholas Bishop's nose', threatened to beat him also. At that point Cuthbert Burbage arrived, and threatened the intruders with 'great and horrible oaths'. They were then violently thrust out of the yard. Some of the actors were attracted by the tumult, among them John Alleyn, brother of Edward Alleyn, who also put in a word for the widow Brayne, to no avail. The Admiral's Men, of which the Alleyn brothers were members, subsequently withdrew from the Theatre and went across the river to play at Henslowe's theatre. On 28 November Margaret Brayne had James Burbage arrested for being in contempt of the court order, and for the next two or three years there was a lengthy investigation into the contempt issue which was still ongoing when Margaret Brayne died in late April 1593. In her will dated 8 April she made Robert Miles her sole executor and left him all her property, including her half interest in the Theatre, and he thereby inherited the litigation in which he had already been active as her financial backer. Miles filed a bill of reviver near the end of the year and continued the suit in Chancery until 28 May 1595, when the court finally adjudged that he should attempt to collect on the bonds in the common law courts, which he appears not to have attempted.\n\nJames Burbage died in February 1597, and two months later the ground lease on the Theatre expired, Giles Allen having refused to renew it. At this point Miles brought an action against Cuthbert Burbage in the Court of Requests, the outcome of which is not known as the relevant documents are no longer extant.\n\nCuthbert Burbage was left to execute the matter of finding the Lord Chamberlain's Men a new home after the lease of the Theatre expired. James Burbage's attempt to bring his company to the Blackfriars Theatre had been stymied by opposition from Blackfriars' wealthy residents; Burbage and company were faced with an imminent crisis.\n\nAfter a last futile attempt to renew the lease, Burbage took action. He leased the Blackfriars to impresario Henry Evans, whose intended use of it for performances by children did not attract opposition. The situation regarding the Theatre was more problematic. The lease, however, gave him the right to use the framing timber of the building, if he did so before the expiration of the lease. When he did not do so, Alleyn announced his intention to use the timber for his own purposes. Looking for a place for his new theatre, Burbage made a verbal agreement with Nicholas Brend for a lease on a stretch of land on Maid Lane in Bankside, near Philip Henslowe's Rose Theatre. Burbage hired Peter Streete to take down the old Theatre and to build the new one from as much of the salvaged material as possible. On the night of 28 December 1598, Cuthbert, Richard, a certain William Smith \"of Waltham Cross, in the County of Hertford, gentleman\", Streete, and twelve others took down the Theatre, carried all the wood and timber across the River Thames and built it again there. This new theatre was renamed the Globe. It opened by September 1599. (The Chamberlain's Men, in the interim, appear to have performed at the Curtain Theatre in Shoreditch).\n\nThe Globe provided a stable home for the Chamberlain's Men and their successors, the King's Men, for the next four decades. Cuthbert and his brother had financed the new venue by making five actors (William Shakespeare, John Heminges, Augustine Phillips, Thomas Pope, and William Kempe) as a group, half-sharers in the profits of the house: this arrangement seems to have solidified the structure of the group, helping cement the position of the Chamberlain's Men as the preeminent troupe in London.\n\nTogether with Richard Robinson and Winifred (d.1642), his wife, William Heminges, Joseph Taylor and John Lowin, Burbage filed a Bill of Complaint on 28 January 1632 in the Court of Requests against the owner of the Globe, Sir Matthew Brend, in order to obtain confirmation of an extension of the 31-year lease originally granted by Sir Matthew Brend's father, Nicholas Brend.\n\nBurbage remained one of the keepers of the Globe until his death, aged seventy-one years, in 1636, and the position appears to have been lucrative for him; he lived in a house in a fashionable district, St Giles Cripplegate, and owned another estate in Middlesex.\n\n"}
{"id": "59071945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59071945", "title": "Egység", "text": "Egység\n\nEgység was a communist Hungarian art magazine published in Vienna and Berlin between 1922 and 1924.\nIt was edited by Béla Uitz and Aladar Komjat.\n"}
{"id": "10004055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10004055", "title": "Entertaining Mr Sloane (film)", "text": "Entertaining Mr Sloane (film)\n\nEntertaining Mr Sloane is a 1970 British black comedy film directed by Douglas Hickox. The screenplay by Clive Exton is based on the 1964 play of the same title by Joe Orton. This was the second adaptation of the play, the first having been developed for British television and telecast by ITV on 15 July 1968.\n\nMurder, homosexuality, nymphomania, and sadism are among the themes of this black comedy focusing on a brother and sister who become involved with a young, sexy, amoral drifter with a mysterious past.\n\nKath is a lonely middle-aged woman living in the London suburbs with her ageing father Kemp, referred to as \"DaDa\". When she meets the Mr. Sloane sunbathing on a tombstone in the cemetery near her home, she invites him to become a lodger. Soon after he accepts her offer, Kath seduces him. Her closeted brother Ed makes him the chauffeur, complete with a tight leather uniform, of his pink 1959 Pontiac Parisienne convertible. Kemp, recognizes Mr. Sloane as the man who killed his boss years before, and stabs him in the leg with a gardening tool.\n\nMr. Sloane takes delight in playing brother against sister and tormenting the elderly man. He gets Kath pregnant and a jealous Ed warns him to stay away from her. When Mr. Sloane murders Kemp to protect his secret, they blackmail him by threatening to report him to the police, unless he agrees to participate in a ménage à trois in which he becomes not only a sexual partner but their prisoner as well.\n\n\nDouglas Hickox was a TV director who wanted to get into feature films. He discovered the rights to the play were available and set up a company with Doug Kentish from Illustra. They spent two years trying to raise finance.\nHickox admitted \"Orton is not a subject I would have picked\" normally but \"it was my opportunity.\" \n\nThe 1959 Pontiac Parisienne, registration number VYP 74, used to belong to original Pink Floyd member Syd Barrett, and was in pretty poor shape. Photographer Mick Rock, who did famous shots of the musician with his car, remembers: \"If I recall correctly, it was a Pontiac Parisienne, a push-button convertible, and it was pink. Mickey Finn, who became the bongo-player for T. Rex, had picked it up at an auction, and Syd had swopped his Mini for it. But he didn’t have a clue how to drive this massive American car, and it basically didn’t work anyway. You can see the back wheel is a bit wonky. Eventually, it got towed. It was autumn 1969…\" The car had been repainted dark blue by either Finn or Barrett, but for the sake of the movie it was painted bright pink again, and given extra accessories like chrome front lights, but a close look shows it was more of a cover-up job than an actual restoration. It is unclear how the car ended up in the movie, but obviously it never had been towed away and was ready when the filming began in August.\nThe film was shot on location at Brockley, at East Dulwich, and at the lodge in Camberwell Old Cemetery in Honor Oak. The crew asked for dressing rooms at Marmora Road, opposite the cemetery, but Reid refused to \"lower herself\" to use an ordinary house as her dressing room, So a caravan had to be especially arranged for her and parked in the street outside.\n\nThe theme song was sung by Georgie Fame. Fame released it as the B-side of his 1970 single \"Somebody Stole My Thunder\".\n\nAttended by Princess Margaret, the Royal World Premiere took place on the 1st of April 1970 at the Carlton Cinema in London.\n\nRoger Greenspun of \"The New York Times\" observed, \"I think that the play's real interest lies precisely in its grotesque avoidance of the depths with which the movie is so vividly familiar. But in most of its particulars the film succeeds—with a superb cast, Douglas Hickox's inventive and generally restrained direction, and a screenplay by Clive Exton that . . . opens up the action mainly to enlarge the characterization of Ed, a real virtue if only for allowing more time and scope to the wonderful Harry Andrews. To a degree the drama has been realized on film . . . and this seems worth the effort and the occasional misdirections, and the nervous discomfort that is likely to be an audience's most immediate response.\"\n\n\"Time Out\" thought the original play \"loses much of its savoury charm in this movie version. Clive Exton's script opens out the play conventionally, to little effect, and Hickox's direction shows little flair for farce in general or Orton in particular.\"\n\nThe film was released on DVD by Cinema Club on 20 June 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "18385730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18385730", "title": "Fashion Originators' Guild of America v. FTC", "text": "Fashion Originators' Guild of America v. FTC\n\nFashion Originators' Guild of America v. FTC, 312 U.S. 457 (1941), is a 1941 decision of the United States Supreme Court sustaining an order of the Federal Trade Commission against a boycott agreement (concerted refusal to deal) among manufacturers of \"high-fashion\" dresses. The purpose of the boycott was to suppress \"style piracy\" (unauthorized copying of original dress creations of Fashion Guild members). The FTC found the Fashion Guild in violation of § 5 of the FTC Act, because the challenged conduct was a \"per se\" violation of § 1 of the Sherman Act.\n\nThe Fashion Originators Guild (FOGA) and its members made and sold medium– and high–priced, fashionable women's dresses to retailers, who select their purchases from designs exhibited in show rooms in New York City. The members made their dresses from their own \"original designs.\" The designs were not protected by patents or copyrights, which were not available for clothing in 1941, and therefore other dress manufacturers (so-called \"style pirates\") made and sold unauthorized copies.\n\nThe Guild was organized in 1932 to protect its members from \"piracy,\" which they said was an unfair and tortious invasion of their rights. \"Because of these alleged wrongs, petitioners . . . combined among themselves to combat and, if possible, destroy all competition from the sale of garments which are copies of their original creations.\" The Guild and its members agreed to refuse to sell any dresses to retailers who purchased, or ordered to be manufactured, dresses which the Guild found embodied copies of its members' designs. For that purpose the Guild set up a \"Piracy Committee,\" which decided which of the designs registered by its members were original. It then employed shoppers in various parts of the country who visited the shops of retailers and report delinquents: if a retailer was found to be selling \"pirated designs,\" it must stop doing so, or else it would get no more dresses from the Guild's members; nor would it be allowed to see the designs exhibited in the Guild's New York show rooms. Retailers that co-operated with the Guild had to agree to accept the decision of the Piracy Committee, and to return to sellers any dresses that had been \"pirated.\" Furthermore, they had to warrant to customers that the designs of the dresses they sold had not been \"pirated.\" As a result of the Guild's efforts, approximately 12,000 retailers signed agreements to \"cooperate\" with the Guild's boycott program.\n\nIf the Guild, upon auditing a member's books, found that a manufacturer was selling to a retailer dealing in pirated designs, the manufacturer was heavily fined. (In one instance, a fine of $1,500 was imposed, and the Guild notified its membership that a fine of $5,000 would be assessed in case of future violation.) The Guild also regulated the discount the manufacturers could allow, prohibited their selling at retail, and cooperated with local guilds in regulating days upon which special sales could be held.\n\nThe FTC issued a complaint against FOGA in April 1936, held hearings, found the pattern of conduct described above an unfair method of competition, and \"made an order appropriate to break up the combination,\" from which the Guild appealed.\n\nFOGA did not challenge the accuracy of the findings, \"but on the contrary seeks to justify the combination.\" It argued that says that its actions \"were necessary to protect the industry as a whole from 'demoralization' and the 'property' of its members from appropriation.\"\n\nThe Second Circuit, in an opinion by Judge Learned Hand, held that any common-law property right that the FOGA members had in their creations was lost upon publication. To embody a design in a dress or a fabric, and offer the dress for general sale was such a \"publication\"; therefore, the FOGA members had no property right against the copying by the so–called style pirates. \"The Guild has therefore no . . . excuse for preventing other dressmakers from copying.\" Accordingly, the court said, \"we are therefore to judge the Guild as a combination seeking to exclude outsiders from a market to which they have as lawful access as it has itself.\" A boycott can be justifiable only if it is in self-defense against a crime, tort, or breach of contract. \"But that excuse does not extend to a boycott of retailers who buy dresses copied from 'published' designs; if that is to be justified, the excuse must be found elsewhere.\" The court could find no other excuse, and it observed that the effect of the boycott by the FOGA members \"puts into their hands collectively the power to control the supply and with it the price,\" to the detriment of consumers. The court perceived each dress design as the subject of a monopoly (i.e., relevant submarket), so that \"for these reasons the combination was unlawful per se.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court, in an opinion by Justice Hugo Black, unanimously affirmed the judgment of the Second Circuit on different grounds. The Court did not consider whether FOGA had property rights that were wrongfully invaded, or whether a boycott could be justified on some ground. It held horizontal boycotts (concerted refusals to deal) illegal \"per se\".\n\nThe Court began by declaring, \"If the purpose and practice of the combination of garment manufacturers and their affiliates runs counter to the public policy declared in the Sherman and Clayton Acts, the Federal Trade Commission has the power to suppress it as an unfair method of competition.\" The Court then considered whether the challenged boycott violated the letter of the Sherman or Clayton Acts, and found both to have been violated.\n\nThe Court then found that FOGA's \"scheme\" vioated § 3 of the Clayton Act because \"the scheme is bottomed upon a system of sale under which (1) textiles shall be sold to garment manufacturers only upon the condition and understanding that the buyers will not use or deal in textiles which are copied from the designs of textile manufacturing Guild members; (2) garment manufacturers shall sell to retailers only upon the condition and understanding that the retailers shall not use or deal in such copied designs.\" Since the FTC concluded \"that these understandings substantially lessened competition and tended to create a monopoly,\" the FTC \"correctly concluded that this practice constituted an unfair method of competition.\"\n\nFOGA's program also violated the policies of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, in that: \"it narrows the outlets to which garment and textile manufacturers can sell and the sources from which retailers can buy; subjects all retailers and manufacturers who decline to comply with the Guild's program to an organized boycott; takes away the freedom of action of members by requiring each to reveal to the Guild the intimate details of their individual affairs; and has both as its necessary tendency and as its purpose and effect the direct suppression of competition from the sale of unregistered textiles and copied designs.\" In addition, FOGA's \"combination is in reality an extra-governmental agency which prescribes rules for the regulation and restraint of interstate commerce and provides extrajudicial tribunals for determination and punishment of violations, and thus 'trenches upon the power of the national legislature and violates the statute.' \"\n\nFOGA argued that the \" boycott and restraint of interstate trade is not within the ban of the policies of the Sherman and Clayton Acts, because 'the practices of FOGA were reasonable and necessary to protect the manufacturer, laborer, retailer and consumer against the devastating evils growing from the pirating of original designs and had in fact benefited all four. boycott and restraint of interstate trade is not within the ban of the policies of the Sherman and Clayton Acts, because 'the practices of FOGA were reasonable and necessary to protect the manufacturer, laborer, retailer and consumer against the devastating evils growing from the pirating of original designs and had in fact benefited all four.' \" In addition, FOGA said, the copying of dress designs against which FOGA directed its conduct was itself tortious. The Court rejected these arguments, saying:\n\n[E]ven if copying were an acknowledged tort under the law of every state, that situation would not justify petitioners in combining together to regulate and restrain interstate commerce in violation of federal law. And for these same reasons, the principles declared in \"International News Service v. Associated Press\" cannot serve to legalize petitioners' unlawful combination.\n\nIn \"Associated Press v. United States\" the Supreme Court condemned the restrictive by-laws of the AP because, like FOGA, AP was operating as a private government:\n\nHere as in the \"Fashion Originator's Guild\" case, 'the combination is in reality an extra-governmental agency, which prescribes rules for the regulation and restraint of interstate commerce, and provides extra-judicial tribunals for determination and punishment of violations, and thus 'trenches upon the power of the national legislature and violates the statute.'\n\nIn \"FTC v. Cement Institute\", the Supreme Court relied on the \"FOGA\" case to support the proposition that restrictive practices that violate the Sherman Act violate § 5 of the FTC Act.\n\nIn \"Klor's, Inc. v. Broadway-Hale Stores, Inc.\", the Supreme Court relied on the \"FOGA\" case to support the proposition: \"Group boycotts, or concerted refusals by traders to deal with other traders, have long been held to be in the forbidden category. They have not been saved by allegations that they were reasonable in the specific circumstances, nor by a failure to show that they 'fixed or regulated prices, parcelled out or limited production, or brought about a deterioration in quality.' \" In the \"Klor's\" case, the boycott was created when a retail store, Broadway-Hale, and ten household appliance manufacturers and their distributors agreed that the distributors would not sell household appliances (or would sell them only at discriminatory prices) to Broadway-Hale’s small, nearby competitor, Klor’s, a price-cutter. The defendants submitted undisputed evidence that their agreement hurt only one competitor (Klor’s) and that so many other nearby appliance-selling competitors remained that competition in the marketplace continued to thrive. The Court held that this evidence was immaterial, because the conspiracy was “not to be tolerated merely because the victim is just one merchant.”\n\nIn \"American Soc. of Mechanical Engineers, Inc. v. Hydrolevel Corp.\", the Supreme Court condemned the use of as standards-setting agency by some of its members to exclude competition. As in the \"FOGA\" case, the Court said: \"ASME can be said to be 'in reality an extra-governmental agency, which prescribes rules for the regulation and restraint of interstate commerce.' \"\n\nIn \"Nynex Corp. v. Discon, Inc.\", the Supreme Court held that the \"per se\" rule against boycotts was limited to horizontal group boycotts. The Court said:\n\n[T]he specific legal question before us is whether an antitrust court considering an agreement by a buyer to purchase goods or services from one supplier rather than another should (after examining the buyer’s reasons or justifications) apply the \"per se\" rule if it finds no legitimate business reason for that purchasing decision. We conclude no boycott-related \"per se\" rule applies and that the plaintiff here must allege and prove harm, not just to a single competitor, but to the competitive process, \"i.e.\", to competition itself.\n\nThe Court pointed to precedent: \"FOGA\" involved \"a group boycott in the strongest sense: A group of competitors threatened to withhold business from third parties unless those third parties would help them injure their directly competing rivals.\" \"Klor's\" \"also involved a horizontal agreement among those threatened, namely, the appliance suppliers, to hurt a competitor of the retailer who made the threat.\" Because the case before the Court \"concerns only a vertical agreement and a vertical restraint, a restraint that takes the form of depriving a supplier of a potential customer,\" it was not within existing boycott precedent.\n\nWallace Kirkpatrick, an official of the Antitrust Division, writing shortly after the Supreme Court's decision in the \"FOGA\" case, pointed out the difference between Learned Hand's and Justice Black's respective approaches to boycotts against wrongdoers—persons committing criminal or tortious acts. Judge Hand held that a boycott may be justified by the conduct of the person against whom the boycott is directed, even where the boycott was not a refusal to participate in unlawful acts. For instance, he said, it was justifiable for dress manufacturers to boycott retailers who got access to unpublished designs by a crime or a breach of contract, or who\nknowingly bought from a manufacturer who stole unpublished designs or copied them without the owner's consent. Justice Black, however, would not permit vigilante justice. He said that the fact that a person was engaged in tortious conduct would not allow a group to refuse in concert to deal with him and would not justify \"combining together to regulate and restrain interstate commerce in violation of federal law.\" Kirkpatrick pointed out that the Supreme Court, but not Judge Hand, properly followed the principle that the Supreme Court had explained in \"United States v. American Livestock Comm'n Co.\", which distinguished between joint refusals to participate in unlawful conduct and joint refusals to deal where \"the wrong is completely independent of the dealings\ninto which the combination refuses to enter.\" Kirkpatrick aligns himself with Black in saying that no private group has the right to \"assum[e] the power to decide who is fitted to enter into business and what is a prerequisite for engaging in interstate commerce.\"\n\nRobert Merges observed of FOGA that the only important differences between it (and similar guilds) and a formal statutory IP right covering fashion designs were: \n\nIn Merges's view, which is the diametric opposite of that of the Court in regard to \"an extra-governmental agency which prescribes rules for the regulation and restraint of interstate commerce and provides extrajudicial tribunals for determination and punishment of violations,\" the FTC and Court made a mistake in condemning FOGA \"out of hand\" simply because it ran a boycott. Rather, the \"Court should have considered whether the Guild tended to enhance economic efficiency,' and whether it did so at a lower cost than a formal property right in dress design.\" He would favor the Guild over a formal IPR [intellectual property right] granted by the state . . . [if] the combination of (1) enforcement at the retail level and (2) shared understandings about what qualifies as an 'original design' would make the system cheaper to administer than a formal, state-run system that created the same level of reward, and hence incentives.\" He concludes that the Court's rejection of the FOGA scheme:\n\nnot only killed an interesting experiment in alternative intellectual property systems, but it also sent a far-reaching signal that when these systems are based on informal property rights, they are void \"per se\". While this conclusion may be defensible in certain cases, it might have been better to establish a \"rule of reason\" analysis for private intellectual property systems.\n\nLike Kirkpatrick, Professors Hemphill and Suk noted the difference between Judge Hand's relatively tolerant attitude and reluctance to condemn the Guild, as contrasted with Justice Black's condemnation of its usurpation of legislative power in the final opinion of the Court. But they describe an early unpublished draft of the \"FOGA\" opinion, in which Justice Black gave careful substantive attention to the Guild's justification arguments, stating that \"there is much force in petitioners’ arguments\" that a quasi-property right like that recognized in the \"INS\" case could perhaps apply, but concluding that the principle was too difficult to confine within limits. A subsequent draft of the opinion adopts a suggestion by Justice Harlan Stone that the case should be disposed of \"on the ground that self-help through boycott was impermissible, even to vindicate a legal right.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7182436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7182436", "title": "Florence Davidson", "text": "Florence Davidson\n\nFlorence Edenshaw Davidson (1896–1993) was a Canadian First Nations artist from the Haida nation who created traditional basketry and button-blankets and was also a respected elder in her First Nations community, the Haida village of Masset, Haida Gwaii Islands, British Columbia.\n\nShe was born in Masset on September 15, 1896, the daughter of the Haida artist Charles Edenshaw (Chief Idɨnsaw) and his wife Isabella (K'woiyəng). She was given the Haida name \"Jadał q'egəngá\" (\"Story Maid\"). She assisted her mother in sewing button blankets when she was a child. She was renowned for her blankets and for sewing baskets of spruceroot and cedar bark.\n\nShe was of the Raven moiety, of the Y'akwə'lanas lineage, and of the Shark House (\"Q'ad Nas\"), with crests that included Shark, Two-Finned Killerwhale, and Brown Bear.\n\nShe married Robert Davidson (1880–1969), a Haida, on February 23, 1911, and had thirteen children. Her daughter Primrose Adams, also an artist, was the 2011 recipient of the Creative Lifetime Achievement Award for First Nations' Art.\n\nIn the 1960s she was consultant on Haida culture and Masset history to the writer Christie Harris, author of \"Raven's Cry.\" She was also a major consultant on Haida language to John Enrico.\n\nShe became well known through her collaborative autobiography written with the anthropologist Margaret B. Blackman, published in 1982.\n\nShe died December 13, 1993.\n\nFlorence's grandsons include the artists Reg Davidson and Robert Davidson, who are brothers.\n\n"}
{"id": "4734333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4734333", "title": "For One Night", "text": "For One Night\n\nFor One Night is a 2006 film is based on the true story of Gerica McCrary, who made headlines in 2002 by getting Taylor County High School in her hometown of Butler, Georgia, to integrate the prom after thirty-one years of segregation. It stars Raven-Symoné as Brianna McCallister and Aisha Tyler as Desiree Howard. The movie was filmed in summer 2005 in Louisiana just before Hurricane Katrina.\n\nThe movie was written by Dee Harris-Lawrence. This film is the first drama role in the career of Raven-Symoné and disengaged from the Disney Channel.\n\nInspired by the true story of an African American teenager who shook up a small town where high school proms had been racially segregated for decades. Amid the protests of the community and with the help of a newspaper reporter who returns to her hometown to cover the story, the two women are able to reverse decades of racist tradition and make history, at least for one night.\n\nThe movie is based on events that occurred in Taylor County, Georgia in 2002.\nIt was filmed at Riverdale High School in Jefferson Louisiana in 2005.\n\nIn an interview with the film director, Raven-Symoné said that she had to gain weight for the lead role, along with getting a Southern accent.\n\n\nThe end of the movie (prom scene) features Raven-Symoné's song \"Gravity\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53175215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53175215", "title": "Gandersheim Casket", "text": "Gandersheim Casket\n\nThe Gandersheim Casket is a small Anglo-Saxon chest from the 8th century, now in the Herzog Anton Ulrich Museum in Braunschweig, Germany.\n\nThe panels of the casket are decorated with interlace carvings of animals, plants and abstract shapes. A runic inscription appears on the inner side of the lid.\n\n"}
{"id": "171993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171993", "title": "Gloria Swanson", "text": "Gloria Swanson\n\nGloria May Josephine Swanson (March 27, 1899 – April 4, 1983) was an American actress and producer best known for her role as Norma Desmond, a reclusive silent film star, in the critically acclaimed 1950 film \"Sunset Boulevard\".\n\nSwanson was also a star in the silent film era as both an actress and a fashion icon, especially under the direction of Cecil B. DeMille. Throughout the 1920s, Swanson was Hollywood's top box office magnet.\n\nSwanson starred in dozens of silent films, and was nominated for the first Academy Award in the Best Actress category. She also produced her own films, including \"Sadie Thompson\" and \"The Love of Sunya.\" In 1929, Swanson transitioned to talkies with \"The Trespasser.\" Personal problems and changing tastes saw her popularity wane during the 1930s when she moved into theater, and later television.\n\nGloria May Josephine Swanson was born in a small house in Chicago in 1899 to Adelaide (née Klanowski) and Joseph Theodore Swanson, a soldier. She attended Hawthorne Scholastic Academy. Her father was from a strict Lutheran Swedish American family, and her mother was of German, French, and Polish ancestry.\n\nBecause of her father's attachment to the U.S. Army, the family moved frequently and Swanson ended up spending most of her childhood in Puerto Rico, where she learned Spanish. She also spent time in Key West, Florida. It was not her intention to enter show business, but on a whim one of her aunts took her to a small film company in Chicago called Essanay Studios for a visit and Swanson was asked to come back to work as an extra.\n\nAfter a few months as an extra working with others like Charlie Chaplin, and making $13.50 a week, Swanson left school to work full-time at the studio. Her parents soon separated and she and her mother moved to California.\n\nSwanson made her film debut in 1914 as an extra in \"The Song of Soul\" for Essanay. She reportedly asked to be in the movie just for fun. Essanay hired her to feature in several movies, including \"His New Job\", directed by and starring Charlie Chaplin.\n\nSwanson moved to California in 1916 to appear in Mack Sennett's Keystone comedies opposite Bobby Vernon. With their great screen chemistry, the pair became popular. Director Charley Chase recalled that she was \"frightened to death\" of Vernon's dangerous stunts. Conquering her fears, however, she often cooperated with Vernon. Surviving films in which they appear together include \"The Danger Girl\" (1916), \"The Sultan's Wife\" (1917), and \"Teddy at the Throttle\" (1917).\n\nIn 1919 she signed with Paramount Pictures and worked often with Cecil B. DeMille, who turned her into a romantic lead in such films as \"Don't Change Your Husband\" (1919), \"Male and Female\" (1919) with the famous scene posing as \"the Lion's Bride\" with a real lion, \"Why Change Your Wife?\" (1920), \"Something to Think About\" (1920), and \"The Affairs of Anatol\" (1921).\n\nIn the space of two years, Swanson rocketed to stardom and was one of the most sought-after actresses in Hollywood. She later appeared in a series of films directed by Sam Wood. She starred in \"Beyond the Rocks\" (1922) with her longtime friend Rudolph Valentino. (Long believed to be a lost film, \"Beyond the Rocks\" was rediscovered in 2004 in a private collection in The Netherlands and is now available on DVD.) Swanson continued to make costume drama films for the next few years. So successful were her films for Paramount that the studio was afraid of losing her and gave in to many of her whims and wishes.\n\nDuring Swanson's heyday, audiences went to her films not only for her performances, but also to see her wardrobe. She was frequently ornamented with beads, jewels, peacock and ostrich feathers and other extravagant pieces of \"haute couture\". Her fashion, hair styles, and jewels were copied around the world. She was the screen's first clothes horse and was becoming one of the most famous and photographed women in the world.\n\nIn 1925, Swanson starred in the French-American \"Madame Sans-Gêne\", directed by Léonce Perret. Filming was allowed for the first time at many of the historic sites relating to Napoleon. While it was well received at the time, no prints are known to exist, and it is considered to be a lost film. During the production of \"Madame Sans-Gêne,\" Swanson met her third husband Henri, Marquis de la Falaise, who had been hired to be her translator during the film's production. After a four-month residency in France she returned to the United States as European nobility, now known as the Marquise. She got a huge welcome home with parades in both New York and Los Angeles. Swanson appeared in a 1925 short produced by Lee DeForest in his Phonofilm sound-on-film process. She made a number of films for Paramount, among them \"The Coast of Folly,\" \"Stage Struck\" and \"Fine Manners.\"\n\nIn 1927, she decided to turn down a million dollar a year (approx. $13.6 million in 2017) contract with Paramount to join the newly created United Artists, where she was her own boss and could make the films she wanted, with whom she wanted, and when. Her first independent film, \"The Love of Sunya\", was directed by Albert Parker, based on the play \"The Eyes of Youth,\" by Max Marcin and Charles Guernon. Produced by and starring Swanson, it co-starred John Boles and Pauline Garon. It is the story of a young woman granted the ability to see into her future, including her future with different men. The story had been filmed previously as \"Eyes of Youth\" starring Clara Kimball Young (that production was also directed by Albert Parker and was responsible for the discovery of Rudolph Valentino by June Mathis). The production was marred by several problems, mainly a suitable cameraman to deal with the film's intricate double exposures, as Swanson was not used to taking charge, and filming took place in New York. The film premiered at the grand opening of the Roxy Theatre in New York City on March 11, 1927. (Swanson was pictured in the ruins of the Roxy on October 14, 1960, during the demolition of the theater, in a famous photo taken by Time-Life photographer Eliot Elisofon and published in \"Life\" magazine.) The production had been a disaster and Swanson felt its success would be mediocre at best. On the advice of Joseph Schenck, Swanson returned to Hollywood, where Schenck begged her to film something more commercial. She agreed but ended up filming the more controversial \"Sadie Thompson\" instead.\n\nFeeling she would never have as much artistic freedom and independence as she had at that moment, Swanson decided she \"wanted to make [her] \"Gold Rush\"\". Schenck pleaded with her to do a commercially successful film like \"The Last of Mrs. Cheyney.\" Swanson felt it was too formulaic, and decided to call on director Raoul Walsh, who was signed with Fox Film Corporation at the time. Walsh had been known for bringing controversial material to film, and at their first meeting suggested the John Colton/Clemence Randolph play \"Rain\" (1923), based on a story by W. Somerset Maugham in 1921 titled \"Miss Thompson\". She had seen Jeanne Eagels perform the role twice, and enjoyed it.\n\nBecause of its content, producing the film under the tight restrictions of the Hays Code would be almost impossible. The play was on the unofficial blacklist, and had quietly been banned from film-making a year earlier. To try to avoid issues with the code, Swanson and Walsh left out profanity, renamed \"Reverend Davidson\" \"Mr. Davidson\", and stated it was in the interest of morality to produce the picture as Irving Thalberg had produced \"The Scarlet Letter\" (1926) at MGM.\n\nSwanson invited Will Hays for lunch and summarized the plot, naming the author and the sticking points. According to Swanson, Hays made a verbal promise he would have no problem with the making of such a film. Swanson set out to get the rights to the play by having Schenck pretend to buy it in the name of United Artists, never to be used. They were able to obtain the story rights for $60,000 instead of the original $100,000. When news broke concerning just what was intended with the play, the three authors threatened to sue. Swanson later contacted Maugham about rights to a sequel, and he offered to grant them for $25,000. Maugham claimed Fox had asked about a sequel at the same time Swanson had bought the original story's rights. The sequel was to follow the further exploits of Sadie in Australia, but was never made.\nSwanson and Walsh set about writing the script, and discreetly placed an ad announcing the film, thinking no one noticed, as Charles Lindbergh had just completed his historic transatlantic flight. However, the press picked up on it and sensationalized the story. United Artists received a threatening two-page telegram from the MPAA signed by all its members, including Fox (Walsh's studio) and Hays himself. In addition, the rest of the signers owned several thousand movie houses, and if they refused to screen the film it could be a financial disaster. This was the first time Swanson had heard the name of Joseph P. Kennedy, with whom she later had an affair, and who arranged financing for her next few pictures, including \"Queen Kelly\" (1929).\n\nSwanson was angered by the response, as she felt those very studios had produced questionable films themselves, and were jealous at not having the chance to produce \"Rain\". After another threatening telegram, she decided to first appeal to the MPAA, and then the newspapers. She heard back only from Marcus Loew, who promised to appeal on her behalf, and since he owned a chain of theaters this eased some of her concerns. Figuring the silence meant the matter had been dropped, Swanson began filming on \"Sadie Thompson\" which already had $250,000 invested in it. Before casting began, the young Douglas Fairbanks, Jr. wanted to audition for the role of Handsome O'Hara. However, Swanson felt he was too young and not right for the role. Lionel Barrymore had been first picked to play Davidson but was thought to be too ill at the time, though he eventually won the role. Barrymore wore the same outfit for an entire week, aggravating Swanson. She asked some of the crew to tell him to change and wash, which he did. Aside from this, Swanson was happy with his performance. Walsh had not appeared in front of a camera in eight years, and feared he would not be able to direct and act at the same time. However, two days into filming, his fears had disappeared.\n\nMuch of the filming took place on Santa Catalina Island near Long Beach, California. Swanson took ill shortly after, and met a doctor who started her lifelong love of macrobiotic diets. A week into shooting, Sam Goldwyn called cameraman George Barnes away. Swanson was furious, but the loan contract had allowed Goldwyn to call him away as he pleased. Not wanting to let a hundred extras sit around for days, Swanson and Walsh tried to hire two more cameramen, but both were unsatisfactory. Mary Pickford had offered the services of her favorite cameraman Charles Rosher, who was called in but despite doing a decent job couldn't match Barnes' work. Swanson, remembering the kindness showed by Marcus Loew during the telegram affair, turned to him again, desperate for help. Although Loew was sick and would soon die, he told MGM to give her anyone she wanted. MGM loaned her Oliver Marsh and he completed the picture.\n\nThe cameraman fiasco was extremely costly to the production, yet shooting continued. With the picture half finished, it was already well over budget, and Schenck was wary, as Swanson's first picture had also been over budget and under performed. Swanson talked with her advisers and sold her home in Croton-on-Hudson, New York, and offered to sell her New York City penthouse as well.\n\nDespite reports that \"dirty\" words can be read on the characters' lips, Swanson said the censors went over everything with a fine-tooth comb. However, Swanson admitted that one line she was shouting at Davidson went, \"You'd rip the wings off of a butterfly, you son of a bitch!\" when recounting a conversation with Walsh later in life. If the word rain was used in a title, they asked that it be removed. They also wanted to change Davidson's name to something else, but Swanson and Walsh refused.\n\nThe film was a success and was the only silent independent film of Swanson's to do well at the box office. It was one of her last financially successful films, including the talkies \"The Trespasser\" and \"Sunset Blvd\". It went on to make $1,000,000 during its US run. However, at Kennedy's advice, Swanson had sold her distribution rights for the film to Schenck, as Kennedy felt it would be a commercial failure. He also didn't care for the image Swanson portrayed in the film. By this point, \"Queen Kelly\" had been a disaster, and Swanson regretted it. The film made the top ten best pictures of the year list as well. It was Raoul Walsh's final role, as he subsequently lost an eye in an accident. The film was nominated for awards for Best Actress in a Leading Role (Gloria Swanson) and Best Cinematography. Swanson did not attend the ceremony, and always felt it was like \"comparing apples to oranges\". Contemporary reviews called it racy but excellent, and praised Swanson's performance. At present, the film, save for the final reel (stopping just after Davidson finds Sadie in his room), exists in good condition.\n\nOne of the best known of Hollywood's unfinished films, \"Queen Kelly\" (1929), was directed by Erich von Stroheim and produced by Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr., father of the future President John F. Kennedy. Produced in 1928–29, the film starred Swanson in the title role, with Walter Byron and Seena Owen. It is the story of Prince Wolfram, betrothed to the mad Queen Regina V of Kronberg. On maneuvers (as punishment for consorting with other women), he spies Kelly walking with the other students of a convent. Enthralled by her beauty, he kidnaps her that night from the convent, takes her to his room and professes his love for her. When the Queen finds them together the next morning, she whips Kelly and throws her out of the castle. Queen Regina then puts Wolfram in prison for his refusal to marry her. Kelly goes to German East Africa to visit her dying Aunt, and is forced to marry the disgusting Jan. The Aunt dies after the wedding, and Kelly refuses to live with Jan, becoming the head of her aunt's brothel. Her extravagances and style earn her the name Queen Kelly.\n\nProduction of the costly film was shut down after complaints by Swanson about von Stroheim and the general direction the film was taking. Though the European scenes were full of innuendo, and featured a philandering prince and a sex-crazed queen, the scenes set in Africa were grim and, Swanson felt, distasteful. In later interviews, Swanson said that she had been misled by the script, which referred to her character arriving in, and taking over, a dance hall; looking at the rushes, it was obvious the \"dance hall\" was actually a brothel.\n\nStroheim was fired from the film, and the African story line was scrapped. Swanson and Kennedy still wanted to salvage the European material, as it had been so costly and time-consuming, and had potential market value. An alternative ending was shot on November 24, 1931. In this ending, directed by Swanson and photographed by Gregg Toland, Prince Wolfram is shown visiting the palace. A nun leads him to the chapel, where Kelly's body lies in state. This has been called the \"Swanson ending\". The film was not theatrically released in the United States, but it was shown in Europe and South America with the Swanson ending tacked on. This was due to a clause in Stroheim's contract.\n\nA short extract of the film appears in \"Sunset Boulevard\" (1950), representing an old silent picture Swanson's character Norma Desmond—herself a silent movie star—had made. Von Stroheim is also a primary character in \"Sunset Boulevard\" as her ex-director, ex-husband, and current butler. In the 1960s, it was shown on television with the Swanson ending, along with a taped introduction and conclusion in which Swanson spoke about the history of the project. By 1985, Kino International had acquired the rights to the movie and restored two versions: one that uses still photos and subtitles in an attempt to wrap up the storyline, and the other the European \"suicide ending\" version. \n\nOn March 29, 1928, at the bungalow of Mary Pickford at United Artists, Swanson, Pickford, Douglas Fairbanks, Charles Chaplin, Norma Talmadge, John Barrymore, Dolores del Río and D. W. Griffith met to speak on the radio show, \"The Dodge Brothers Hour\", to prove they could meet the challenge of talking movies. To try to recover from the \"Queen Kelly\" fiasco, Swanson jumped into making talkies, including \"The Trespasser\" (1929), \"What a Widow!\" (1930), \"Indiscreet\" (1931), \"Perfect Understanding\" (1933), and \"Music in the Air\" (1934).\n\n\"The Trespasser\" tells the story of a \"kept woman\" who maintains a lavish lifestyle. The film stars Swanson, Robert Ames, Purnell Pratt, Henry B. Walthall, and Wally Albright. The movie was written and directed by Edmund Goulding and released by United Artists, and earned Swanson an Academy Award nomination in her talkie debut. Swanson sang the song \"Love, Your Magic Spell Is Everywhere\" written by Goulding and Elsie Janis. \"The Trespasser\" was filmed simultaneously in a silent and a talking version, and was a smash hit.\n\n\"The Trespasser\" was an important film for Swanson, following the disastrous \"Queen Kelly\" and the hit \"Sadie Thompson\", and garnered Swanson her second Oscar nomination. Sadly for Swanson, \"The Trespasser\" proved to be one of her only two hit talkies, the other being \"Sunset Boulevard\", made over 20 years later. Subsequent follow-ups like \"What a Widow!\", \"Indiscreet\", \"Tonight or Never\", \"Perfect Understanding\", and \"Music in the Air\" all proved to be box-office flops. Despite the disappointments following \"The Trespasser,\" Swanson was well remembered by Billy Wilder, a writer on \"Music in the Air\", when he was casting the part of Norma Desmond in his masterpiece \"Sunset Boulevard\" (1950).\nAlthough she made the transition to talkies, as her film career began to decline, Swanson relocated permanently to New York City in 1938, where she began an inventions and patents company called Multiprises, which kept her occupied during the years of World War II. This small company had the sole purpose of rescuing Jewish scientists and inventors from war-torn Europe and bringing them to the United States. She helped many escape, and some useful inventions came from the enterprise.\n\nSwanson made another film for RKO in 1941 (\"Father Takes a Wife\"), began appearing in the legitimate theater, and starred in her own television show in 1948. She threw herself into painting and sculpting, writing a syndicated column, touring in summer stock, engaging in political activism, radio and television work, clothing and accessories design and marketing, and making occasional appearances on the big screen. But it was not until 1950 when \"Sunset Boulevard\" was released (earning her yet another Academy Award nomination) that she achieved mass recognition again.\n\nAfter Mae West, Mary Pickford and Pola Negri all declined the role, Swanson starred in 1950's \"Sunset Boulevard\", portraying Norma Desmond, a faded silent movie star who falls in love with the younger screenwriter Joe Gillis, played by William Holden. Desmond lives in the past, assisted by her butler Max, played by Erich von Stroheim. Her dreams of a comeback are subverted as she becomes delusional. There are cameos from actors of the silent era in the film, including Buster Keaton, H. B. Warner and Anna Q. Nilsson. Cecil B. DeMille plays himself in a pivotal scene. Some of the lines from the film have become pop-culture mainstays, including \"The Greatest Star of them all\"; \"I am big; it's the pictures that got small\"; \"We didn't need dialogue, we had faces\"; and \"All right, Mr. DeMille, I'm ready for my close-up.\" She received her third Best Actress Oscar nomination, but lost to Judy Holliday for \"Born Yesterday\".\n\nSwanson received several subsequent acting offers but turned most of them down, saying they tended to be pale imitations of Norma Desmond. Her last major Hollywood motion picture role was the poorly received \"Three for Bedroom \"C\"\" in 1952. In 1956, Swanson made \"Nero's Mistress\", which also starred Alberto Sordi, Vittorio de Sica and Brigitte Bardot. Her final screen appearance was as herself in \"Airport 1975\". Although Swanson only made three films after \"Sunset Boulevard\", she starred in numerous stage and television productions during her remaining years. She was active in various business ventures, traveled extensively, wrote articles, columns, and an autobiography, painted and sculpted, and became a passionate advocate of various health and nutrition topics.\n\nSwanson hosted one of the first live television series in 1948, \"The Gloria Swanson Hour\", in which she invited friends and others to be guests. Swanson also later hosted a television anthology series, \"Crown Theatre with Gloria Swanson\", in which she occasionally acted.\n\nThrough the 1960s, 1970s, and early 1980s, Swanson appeared on many different talk and variety shows such as \"The Carol Burnett Show\" in 1973 and \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\" to recollect her films and to lampoon them as well. She was twice the \"mystery guest\" on \"What's My Line\". She acted in \"Behind the Locked Door\" on \"The Alfred Hitchcock Hour\" in 1964, and in the same year was nominated for a Golden Globe award for her performance in \"Burke's Law\". She made a guest appearance on \"The Dick Cavett Show\" in the summer of 1970; a guest on the same show as Janis Joplin, who died later that year.\n\nShe made a notable appearance in a 1966 episode of \"The Beverly Hillbillies\", called \"The Gloria Swanson Story\", in which she plays herself. In the episode, the Clampetts mistakenly believe Swanson is destitute, and decide to finance a comeback movie for her – in a silent film. Her last acting role, aside from playing herself in \"Airport 1975\", was in the made-for-TV horror film \"Killer Bees\" (1974). After near-retirement from films, Swanson appeared in many plays throughout her later life, beginning in the 1940s. She toured with \"A Goose for the Gander\", \"Reflected Glory\", and \"Let Us Be Gay\". After her success with \"Sunset Boulevard\", she starred on Broadway in a revival of \"Twentieth Century\" (1951) with José Ferrer, and in \"Nina\" with David Niven. Her last major stage role was in the 1971 Broadway production of \"Butterflies Are Free\" at the Booth Theatre. Swanson appeared on \"The Carol Burnett Show\" in 1973, doing a sketch where she flirted with Lyle Waggoner. The episode was called \"Carol and Sis/The Guilty Man.\"\n\nIn 1980, Swanson's autobiography, \"Swanson on Swanson\", was published and became a commercial success. Kevin Brownlow and David Gill interviewed her for \"Hollywood\" (1980), a television history of the silent era.\n\nSwanson became a vegetarian around 1928 and was an early health food advocate who was known for bringing her own meals to public functions in a paper bag. Swanson told actor Dirk Benedict about macrobiotic diets when he was battling prostate cancer at a very early age. He had refused conventional therapies and credited this kind of diet and healthy eating with his recovery. In 1975, Swanson traveled the United States and helped to promote the book \"Sugar Blues\" written by her husband, William Dufty.\n\nIn early 1980, Swanson's 520-page autobiography, \"Swanson on Swanson\", was published by Random House and became a national best-seller. It was translated into French, Italian and Swedish editions. That same year, she also designed a stamp cachet for the United Nations Postal Administration.\n\nSwanson was a long-time member of the Lutheran church; her father was of Swedish Lutheran descent. In 1964, Swanson spoke at a \"Project Prayer\" rally attended by 2,500 at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles. The gathering, which was hosted by Anthony Eisley, a star of ABC's \"Hawaiian Eye\" series, sought to flood the United States Congress with letters in support of mandatory school prayer, following two decisions in 1962 and 1963 of the United States Supreme Court, which struck down mandatory prayer as conflicting with the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. Joining Swanson and Eisley at the Project Prayer rally were Walter Brennan, Lloyd Nolan, Rhonda Fleming, Pat Boone, and Dale Evans. Swanson declared, \"Under God we became the freest, strongest, wealthiest nation on earth, should we change that?\"\n\nThroughout her life and her many marriages, Swanson was always known as Miss Swanson. Though she legally took the names of her husbands, her own personality and fame always overshadowed them. Her first husband was the actor Wallace Beery, whom she married on her 17th birthday on March 27, 1916. In her autobiography \"Swanson on Swanson,\" Swanson wrote that Beery raped her on their wedding night. She became pregnant by him in 1917. Not wanting her to have the child, she claims he tricked her into drinking a concoction that induced an abortion. They still worked together at Sennett but they separated in June 1917 and Swanson filed for divorce later that year, it was finalized in 1918.\n\nShe married Herbert K. Somborn (1919–1925), then-president of Equity Pictures Corporation and later the owner of the Brown Derby restaurant, in 1919; they had a daughter, Gloria Swanson Somborn (October 7, 1920 – December 28, 2000). Their divorce, finalized in January 1925, was sensational and led to Swanson having a \"morals clause\" added to her studio contract. Somborn accused her of adultery with thirteen men including Cecil B. DeMille, Rudolph Valentino and Marshall Neilan. During their divorce Swanson wanted another child, and in 1923 she adopted a baby boy, Sonny Smith (1922–1975), whom she renamed Joseph Patrick Swanson.\n\nSwanson's third husband was the French aristocrat Henri, Marquis de la Falaise de la Coudraye, whom she married on January 28, 1925, after the Somborn divorce was finalized. Though Henri was a Marquis and the grandson of Richard and Martha Lucy Hennessy from the famous Hennessy Cognac family, he was not rich and had to work for a living. He was originally hired to be her assistant and interpreter in France while she was filming \"Madame Sans-Gêne\" (1925). Swanson was the first film star to marry European nobility, and the marriage became a global sensation. She conceived a child with him, but had an abortion, which, in her autobiography, she said she regretted. Later, Henri became a film executive representing Pathé (USA) in France through Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr., who was running the studio. Many now assume he was given the position, which kept him in France for ten months a year, to simply keep him out of the way. This marriage ended in divorce in 1930\n\nWhile still married to Henri, Swanson had an affair with the married Joseph P. Kennedy, father of future President John F. Kennedy, for a number of years. He became her business partner and their relationship was an open secret in Hollywood. He took over all of her personal and business affairs and was supposed to make her millions. Unfortunately, Kennedy left her after the disastrous \"Queen Kelly\" and her finances were in worse shape than when he came into her life. Two books have been written about the affair.\n\nAfter the marriage to Henri and her affair with Kennedy were over, Swanson married Michael Farmer (1902–1975) in August 1931. Because of the possibility that Swanson's divorce from La Falaise had not been final at the time of the wedding, she was forced to remarry Farmer the following November, by which time she was four months pregnant with Michelle Bridget Farmer, who was born on April 5, 1932. Swanson and Farmer divorced in 1934, after she became involved with married British actor Herbert Marshall. The media reported widely on her affair with Marshall. After almost three years with the actor, Swanson left him once she realized he would never divorce his wife, Edna Best, for her. In an early manuscript of her autobiography written in her own hand decades later, Swanson recalled, \"I was never so convincingly and thoroughly loved as I was by Herbert Marshall.\"\n\nIn 1945, Swanson married William N. Davey and according to her after discovering Davey in a drunken stupor, she and daughter Michelle, believing they were being helpful, left a trail of Alcoholics Anonymous literature around the apartment. Davey quickly packed up and left. The Swanson-Davey divorce was finalized in 1946. For the next thirty years Swanson would remain unmarried and able to pursue her own interests.\n\nSwanson's final marriage occurred in 1976 and lasted until her death. Her sixth husband and widower, writer William Dufty (1916–2002), was the co-author of Billie Holiday's autobiography \"Lady Sings the Blues,\" the author of \"Sugar Blues,\" a 1975 best-selling health book still in print, and the author of the English version of Georges Ohsawa's \"You Are All Sanpaku.\" Dufty was a book ghost-writer and newspaperman, working for many years at the \"New York Post,\" where he was assistant to the editor from 1951 to 1960. He first met Swanson in 1965 and by 1967 the two were living together as a couple. Swanson shared her husband's deep enthusiasm for macrobiotic diets and they traveled widely together to speak about sugar and food. They promoted his book \"Sugar Blues\" together in 1975 and also wrote a syndicated column together. It was through \"Sugar Blues\" that Dufty and Swanson first got to know John Lennon and Yoko Ono. Swanson testified on Lennon's behalf at his immigration hearing in New York, which led to him becoming a permanent resident. Dufty ghost-wrote Swanson's best-selling 1980 autobiography, \"Swanson on Swanson\", based on her early, sometimes handwritten drafts and notes. She personally revised the manuscript several times. They were prominent socialites, having many homes and living in many places, including New York City, Rome, Portugal, and Palm Springs, California. After Swanson's death Dufty returned to his former home in Birmingham, Michigan. He died of cancer in 2002.\n\nSwanson was a Republican and supported the 1940 and 1944 campaigns for president of Wendell Willkie, and the 1964 presidential campaign of Barry Goldwater. In 1980, she chaired the New York chapter of \"Seniors for Reagan-Bush.\"\n\nShortly after returning to New York from her home in the Portuguese Riviera, on April 4, 1983, Swanson died in New York City in New York Hospital from a heart ailment, aged 84. She was cremated and her ashes interred at the Episcopal Church of the Heavenly Rest on Fifth Avenue, in New York City, attended by only a small circle of family. Fellow silent star Jacqueline Logan died on the same day.\n\nAfter Swanson's death, there was a series of auctions from August to September 1983 at William Doyle Galleries in New York of the star's furniture and decorations, jewelry, clothing, and memorabilia from her personal life and career.\n\nIn 1960, Gloria Swanson was honored with two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame: one for motion pictures at 6750 Hollywood Boulevard, and another for television at 6301 Hollywood Boulevard. In 1955 and 1957, Swanson was awarded The George Eastman Award, given by George Eastman House for distinguished contribution to the art of film, and in 1966 the museum honored her with a career film retrospective, \"A Tribute to Gloria Swanson\", which screened several of her films between May 12–18. A parking lot by Sims Park in downtown New Port Richey, Florida, is named after the star, who is said to have owned property along the Cotee River.\n\nIn 1982, a year before her death, Swanson sold her archives of over 600 boxes for an undisclosed sum, including photographs, artwork, copies of films and private papers including correspondence, contracts and financial dealings to the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas at Austin. The second-largest collection of Swanson materials is held in the family archives of Timothy A. Rooks. In the last years of her life Swanson professed a desire to see \"Beyond the Rocks\", but the film was unavailable and considered lost. The film was rediscovered and screened in 2005.\n\nAs one of the greatest stars of early Hollywood, today, Swanson is most remembered for her portrayal of Norma Desmond in 1950's \"Sunset Boulevard\".\n\nSwanson has been played both on television and in film by the following actresses:\n\n\nGeneral\n\nInterviews\n"}
{"id": "966622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=966622", "title": "Grandmama (The Addams Family)", "text": "Grandmama (The Addams Family)\n\nGrandmama is a fictional character in the \"Addams Family\" television and film series. First appearing in the works of cartoonist Charles Addams, she is a supporting character in series film, television and stage adaptations.\n\nGrandmama Addams is an aged witch who concocts potions and spells, and dabbles in fortune telling and knife throwing. She is the grandmother of the Addams children, Pugsley and Wednesday, although her relationship to the other family members is less consistent. Grandmama first appeared along with the then-unnamed Addams family in Charles Addams' original cartoons published in \"The New Yorker\", in which she was regularly illustrated with shoulder-length frizzy hair and a fringed shawl. Addams described Grandmama in a 1963 character synopsis as \"a disrespectful old hag\" and \"foolishly good-natured ... a weak character [who] is easily led.\"\n\nIn Charles Addams' original \"The New Yorker\" cartoon strips, the character was referred to as Grandma Frump, therefore making her Morticia's mother. For the original television series — as well as \"The New Addams Family\", in which she is named Eudora Addams — her relationship to the family is retconned and she becomes Gomez's mother. However, both the feature films and animated television series conform to Charles Addams' original concept of Grandmama as Wednesday's and Pugsley's maternal grandmother. In the first film, Morticia and Fester discuss how \"Mother and Father Addams\" were killed by an angry mob, removing any possibility that Grandmama could be Gomez and Fester's mother. In the third film, in which she is named Esmeralda, she is again implied to come from Morticia's family. The character is simply referred to as Granny in the two animated series. In the 1992 series, Grandmama is Morticia's mother and, in the second episode, introduces herself with the line, \"the name's Granny Frump\". \n\nIn the Broadway musical \"The Addams Family\", Morticia refers to Grandmama as Gomez and Uncle Fester's mother (complaining that she was supposed to move in for two weeks, and it's been twelve years), to which he reacts with surprise and says that he thought she was Morticia's mother; Morticia later says that Grandmama \"may not even be part of this family\".\n\nThe character was named \"Grandmama\" for the 1960s television series in order to avoid confusion with Granny from \"The Beverly Hillbillies\". She was played by Blossom Rock, who won the role over actresses such as Minerva Urecal and Marjorie Bennett, while Alice Pearce had been rejected after the producers deemed her too young for the part. However, due to illness, Rock was the one regular cast member from the show who did not return for the 1977 reunion film \"Halloween with the New Addams Family\", and she was replaced as Grandmama by Jane Rose. The character was played by Betty Phillips in the 1998-99 television series \"The New Addams Family\".\n\nJanet Waldo voiced Grandmama in the 1973 animated series, and Carol Channing provided the character's voice for the 1992 animated series. \n\nThree different actresses played Grandmama in the three \"Addams Family\" feature films. Judith Malina appeared in the 1991 film \"The Addams Family\", and was replaced by Carol Kane for the 1993 sequel \"Addams Family Values\". For the 1998 direct-to-video picture \"Addams Family Reunion\", Grandmama was played by Alice Ghostley.\n\nIn the 1989 Nintendo Entertainment System game \"Fester's Quest\", the instruction booklet says Grandmama's psychic powers foretold the alien invasion that would come and abduct all the people in the city, so she invokes a curse on the family mansion. As a result, when extraterrestrial scouts scan the Addams residence for life forms they find none, thanks to Grandmama's curse.\n\nGrandmama was played by Jackie Hoffman in the 2010 Broadway musical, in which her relation to the family in the storyline is ambiguous.\n"}
{"id": "35873610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35873610", "title": "Homestead Book Company", "text": "Homestead Book Company\n\nHomestead Book Company was a publisher and wholesale distributor of books, magazines, videos, games, and novelty items. Founded in 1972 and closed in 2017, the organization was located in Seattle, Washington. They specialized in counter-cultural books and currently distribute over 3,000 titles to retailers as well as their own mail-order business.\n\nHomestead Book Company was founded in 1972 by David Tatelman. They began as a distributor of underground comix for Rip Off Press. Tatelman initially delivered comix to various accounts between Olympia and Bellingham in Washington. The company soon began distributing books with their first book being \"The Complete Guide to Growing Marijuana\" by David Fleming. Homestead Book Company was also one of the first distributors for \"High Times Magazine\".\n\nDuring the Teononacatl Mushroom Conference in 1977, Tatelman met with author Bob Harris and they decided to start offering home grown Psilocybe mushroom kits. The kits were introduced with growing methods that were outlined in Harris' book \"Growing Wild Mushrooms\". The first kits were introduced in 1978 and sold through advertisements in \"High Times Magazine\". The kits are still on the market and are now referred to by the name EZ-Gro Mushroom Kits.\n\nHomestead Book Company also published many books over the years, including several associated with the growing and cultivating of Psilocybe Mushrooms.\n\n\nIn Seattle, Homestead was a co-sponsor of the 4th of July fireworks and Seattle Hempfest.\n\n"}
{"id": "176999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176999", "title": "Intellectual rights", "text": "Intellectual rights\n\nIntellectual rights (from \"\") is a term sometimes used to refer to the legal protection afforded to owners of intellectual capital. This notion is more commonly referred to as \"intellectual property\", though \"intellectual rights\" more aptly describes the nature of the protections afforded by most nations.\n\nBoth terms were used in Europe during the 19th century as a means of distinguishing between two different views of intellectual protection. \"Intellectual property\" was generally used to advocate a belief that copyrights and patents should provide rights similar to physical property rights. The term \"intellectual rights\" was used by those who felt that such protection should take the form of temporary, limited grants.\n\nAlthough most modern copyright systems do not treat copyrighted or patented materials in the same way as real property, the term \"intellectual property\" has gained prominence. For more on this subject, see \"intellectual property\".\n\nAlso, at least three different kinds of capital and rights are involved:\n\nAll three capital terms predate the term intellectual capital, which appears to be a 19th-century artifact of early, now-discredited, economic theory.\n\nIn 20th-century Europe also originated another more modern approach, intended to sweep away the differences between the historical \"Intellectual Property\" and \"Intellectual Rights\" camps, allowing every creator both perpetual and temporary rights:\n\nNote that this is one of the chief differences between U.S. and EU approach towards Intellectual property rights up till the early 21st century, in that the crystallisation of this modern approach (the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works) is still only partially put in practice in the U.S., and, where applied, this is done largely outside the legislation regarding IP.\n"}
{"id": "241981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241981", "title": "Jean-François Lyotard", "text": "Jean-François Lyotard\n\nJean-François Lyotard (; ; 10 August 1924 – 21 April 1998) was a French philosopher, sociologist, and literary theorist. His interdisciplinary discourse spans such topics as epistemology and communication, the human body, modern art and postmodern art, literature and critical theory, music, film, time and memory, space, the city and landscape, the sublime, and the relation between aesthetics and politics. He is best known for his articulation of postmodernism after the late 1970s and the analysis of the impact of postmodernity on the human condition. He was a director of the International College of Philosophy which was founded by Jacques Derrida, François Châtelet, Jean-Pierre Faye and Dominique Lecourt.\n\nJean François Lyotard was born on August 10, 1924 in Vincennes, France to Jean-Pierre Lyotard, a sales representative, and Madeleine Cavalli. He went to primary school at the Paris Lycée Buffon and Louis-le-Grand. As a child, Lyotard had many aspirations: to be an artist, a historian, a Dominican monk, and a writer. He later gave up the dream of becoming a writer when he finished writing an unsuccessful fictional novel at the age of 15. Ultimately, Lyotard describes the realization that he would not become any of these occupations as \"fate\" in his intellectual biography called \"Peregrinations\", published in 1988.\n\nHe studied philosophy at the Sorbonne in the late 1940s. His 1947 DES thesis (\"\", roughly equivalent to an MA thesis), \"Indifference as an Ethical Concept\" (\"L'indifférence comme notion éthique\"), analyzed forms of indifference and detachment in Zen Buddhism, Stoicism, Taoism, and Epicureanism. In 1950, Lyotard took up a position teaching philosophy in Constantine in French Algeria but returned to mainland France in 1952 to teach at the Prytanée military academy in La Flèche, where he wrote a short work on Phenomenology, published in 1954. Lyotard moved to Paris in 1959 to teach at the Sorbonne: introductory lectures from this time (1964) have been posthumously published under the title \"Why Philosophize?\". Having moved to teach at the new campus of Nanterre in 1966, Lyotard participated in the events following March 22 and the tumult of May 1968. In 1971, Lyotard earned a State doctorate with his dissertation \"Discours, figure\" under Mikel Dufrenne—the work was published the same year. Lyotard joined the Philosophy department of the experimental University at Vincennes, later Paris 8, together with Gilles Deleuze, in the academic year 1970-71; it remained his academic home in France until 1987. He married his first wife, Andrée May, in 1948 with whom he had two children, Corinne and Laurence, and later married for a second time in 1993 to Dolores Djidzek, the mother of his son David (born in 1986).\n\nIn 1954, Lyotard became a member of \"Socialisme ou Barbarie\", a French political organisation formed in 1948 around the inadequacy of the Trotskyist analysis to explain the new forms of domination in the Soviet Union. \"Socialisme ou Barbarie\" had an objective to conduct a critique of Marxism from within during the Algerian war of liberation. His writings in this period mostly concern with ultra-left politics, with a focus on the Algerian situation—which he witnessed first-hand while teaching philosophy in Constantine. He wrote optimistic essays of hope and encouragement to the Algerians, which was reproduced in Political Writings. Lyotard hoped to encourage an Algerian fight for independence from France, and a social revolution. Following disputes with Cornelius Castoriadis in 1964, Lyotard left \"Socialisme ou Barbarie\" for the newly formed splinter group \"Pouvoir Ouvrier\", before resigning from \"Pouvoir Ouvrier\" in turn in 1966. Although Lyotard played an active part in the May 1968 uprisings, he distanced himself from revolutionary Marxism with his 1974 book \"Libidinal Economy\". He distanced himself from Marxism because he felt that Marxism had a rigid structuralist approach and they were imposing 'systematization of desires' through strong emphasis on industrial production as the ground culture.\n\nLyotard taught at the , Algeria from 1950 to 1952. In 1972, Lyotard began teaching at the University of Paris VIII; he taught there until 1987 when he became Professor Emeritus. During the next two decades he lectured outside France, notably as a Professor of Critical Theory at the University of California, Irvine and as visiting professor at universities around the world. These included: Johns Hopkins University, University of California, Berkeley, Yale University, Stony Brook University and the University of California, San Diego in the U.S., the Université de Montréal in Quebec (Canada), and the University of São Paulo in Brazil. He was also a founding director and council member of the Collège International de Philosophie, Paris. Before his death, he split his time between Paris and Atlanta, where he taught at Emory University as the Woodruff Professor of Philosophy and French.\n\nLyotard's work is characterised by a persistent opposition to universals, meta-narratives, and generality. He is fiercely critical of many of the 'universalist' claims of the Enlightenment, and several of his works serve to undermine the fundamental principles that generate these broad claims.\n\nIn his writings of the early 1970s, he rejects what he regards as theological underpinnings of both Karl Marx and Sigmund Freud: \"In Freud, it is judaical, critical sombre (forgetful of the political); in Marx it is catholic. Hegelian, reconciliatory (...) in the one and in the other the relationship of the economic with meaning is blocked in the category of representation (...) Here a politics, there a therapeutics, in both cases a laical theology, on top of the arbitrariness and the roaming of forces\". Consequently, he rejected Theodor W. Adorno's negative dialectics because he viewed them as seeking a \"therapeutic resolution in the framework of a religion, here the religion of history.\" In Lyotard's \"libidinal economics\" he aimed at \"discovering and describing different social modes of investment of libidinal intensities\".\n\nLyotard is a skeptic for modern cultural thought. According to his \"La Condition postmoderne: Rapport sur le savoir (The Postmodern Condition: A Report on Knowledge)\" (1979), the impact of the postmodern condition was to provoke skepticism about universalizing theories. Lyotard argues that we have outgrown our needs for \"grand narratives\" due to the advancement of techniques and technologies since World War II. He argues against the possibility of justifying the narratives that bring together disciplines and social practices, such as science and culture; \"the narratives we tell to justify a single set of laws and stakes are inherently unjust.\" A loss of faith in meta-narratives has an effect on how we view science, art, and literature. Little narratives have now become the appropriate way for explaining social transformations and political problems. Lyotard argues that this is the driving force behind postmodern science. As metanarratives fade, science suffers a loss of faith in its search for truth, and therefore must find other ways of legitimating its efforts. Connected to this scientific legitimacy is the growing dominance for information machines. Lyotard argues that one day, in order for knowledge to be considered useful, it will have to be converted into computerized data. Years later, this led him into writing his book \"The Inhuman\", published in 1988, in which he illustrates a world where technology has taken over.\n\nMost famously, in \"La Condition postmoderne: Rapport sur le savoir (The Postmodern Condition: A Report on Knowledge)\" (1979), he proposes what he calls an extreme simplification of the \"postmodern\" as an 'incredulity towards meta-narratives'. These meta-narratives—sometimes 'grand narratives'—are grand, large-scale theories and philosophies of the world, such as the progress of history, the knowability of everything by science, and the possibility of absolute freedom. Lyotard argues that we have ceased to believe that narratives of this kind are adequate to represent and contain us all. He points out that no one seemed to agree on what, if anything, was real and everyone had their own perspective and story. We have become alert to difference, diversity, the incompatibility of our aspirations, beliefs and desires, and for that reason postmodernity is characterised by an abundance of micronarratives. For this concept Lyotard draws from the notion of 'language-games' found in the work of Ludwig Wittgenstein. Lyotard notes that it is based on mapping of society according to the concept of the language games.\n\nIn Lyotard's works, the term 'language games', sometimes also called 'phrase regimens', denotes the multiplicity of communities of meaning, the innumerable and incommensurable separate systems in which meanings are produced and rules for their circulation are created. This involves, for example, an incredulity towards the metanarrative of human emancipation. That is, the story of how the human race has set itself free that brings together the language game of science, the language game of human historical conflicts and the language game of human qualities into the overall justification of the steady development of the human race in terms of wealth and moral well-being. According to this metanarrative, the justification of science is related to wealth and education. The development of history is seen as a steady progress towards civilization or moral well-being. The language game of human passions, qualities and faults (c.f. character flaws (narratives)), is seen as steadily shifting in favor of our qualities and away from our faults as science and historical developments help us to conquer our faults in favor of our qualities. The point is that any event ought to be able to be understood in terms of the justifications of this metanarrative; anything that happens can be understood and judged according to the discourse of human emancipation. For example, for any new social, political or scientific revolution we could ask the question, \"Is this revolution a step towards the greater well-being of the mass of human beings?\" It should always be possible to answer this question in terms of the rules of justification of the metanarrative of human emancipation.\n\nThis becomes more crucial in \"Au juste: Conversations (Just Gaming)\" (1979) and \"Le Différend (The Differend)\" (1983), which develop a postmodern theory of justice. It might appear that the atomisation of human beings implied by the notion of the micronarrative and the language game suggests a collapse of ethics. It has often been thought that universality is a condition for something to be a properly ethical statement: 'thou shalt not steal' is an ethical statement in a way that 'thou shalt not steal from Margaret' is not. The latter is too particular to be an ethical statement (what's so special about Margaret?); it is only ethical if it rests on a universal statement ('thou shalt not steal from anyone'). But universals are impermissible in a world that has lost faith in metanarratives, and so it would seem that ethics is impossible. Justice and injustice can only be terms within language games, and the universality of ethics is out of the window. Lyotard argues that notions of justice and injustice do in fact remain in postmodernism. The new definition of injustice is indeed to use the language rules from one 'phrase regimen' and apply them to another. Ethical behaviour is about remaining alert precisely to the threat of this injustice, about paying attention to things in their particularity and not enclosing them within abstract conceptuality. One must bear witness to the 'differend.' In a differend, there is a conflict between two parties that cannot be solved in a just manner. However, the act of being able to bridge the two and understand the claims of both parties, is the first step towards finding a solution.\n\n\"I would like to call a differend the case where the plaintiff is divested of the means to argue and becomes for that reason a victim. If the addressor, the addressee, and the sense of the testimony are neutralized, everything takes place as if there were no damages. A case of differend between two parties takes place when the regulation of the conflict that opposes them is done in the idiom of one of the parties while the wrong suffered by the other is not signified in that idiom.\"\nIn more than one book, Lyotard promoted what he called paganism and contrasted it with both the rejection of the pagan gods in Book II of Plato's The Republic and the monotheism of Judaism. Lyotard argued that the pagan gods, unlike Platonic philosophy and monotheism, never claimed to have universal truth, but instead were better than humans because they were better at deceit and metamorphosis. Lyotard's paganism was also feminist because he argued that women, like paganism, are antirational and antiphilosophical.\n\nIn \"The Differend\", based on Immanuel Kant's views on the separation of Understanding, Judgment, and Reason, Lyotard identifies the moment in which language fails as the differend, and explains it as follows: \"...the unstable state and instant of language wherein something which must be able to be put into phrases cannot yet be… the human beings who thought they could use language as an instrument of communication, learn through the feeling of pain which accompanies silence (and of pleasure which accompanies the invention of a new idiom)\". Lyotard undermines the common view that the meanings of phrases can be determined by what they refer to (the referent). The meaning of a phrase—an event (something happens)--cannot be fixed by appealing to reality (what actually happened). Lyotard develops this view of language by defining \"reality\" in an original way, as a complex of possible senses attached to a referent through a name. The correct sense of a phrase cannot be determined by a reference to reality, since the referent itself does not fix sense, and reality itself is defined as the complex of competing senses attached to a referent. Therefore, the phrase event remains indeterminate.\n\nLyotard uses the example of Auschwitz and the revisionist historian Faurisson’s demands for proof of the Holocaust to show how the differend operates as a double bind (a dilemma or difficult circumstance from which there is no escape because of mutually conflicting or dependent conditions). Faurisson will only accept proof of the existence of gas chambers from eyewitnesses who were themselves victims of the gas chambers. However, any such eyewitnesses are dead and are not able to testify. Either there were no gas chambers, in which case there would be no eyewitnesses to produce evidence, or there were gas chambers, in which case there would still be no eyewitnesses to produce evidence, because they would be dead. Since Faurisson will accept no evidence for the existence of gas chambers, except the testimony of actual victims, he will conclude from both possibilities (gas chambers existed and gas chambers did not exist) that gas chambers did not exist. This presents a double bind. There are two alternatives, either there were gas chambers or there were not, which lead to the same conclusion: there were no gas chambers (and no final solution). The case is a differend because the harm done to the victims cannot be presented in the standard of judgement upheld by Faurisson.\n\nLyotard was a frequent writer on aesthetic matters. He was, despite his reputation as a postmodernist, a great promoter of modernist art. Lyotard saw postmodernism as a latent tendency within thought throughout time and not a narrowly limited historical period. He favoured the startling and perplexing works of the high modernist avant-garde. In them he found a demonstration of the limits of our conceptuality, a valuable lesson for anyone too imbued with Enlightenment confidence. Lyotard has written extensively also on many contemporary artists of his choice: Valerio Adami, Daniel Buren, Marcel Duchamp, Jacques Monory, Ruth Francken, Shusaku Arakawa, Bracha Ettinger, Sam Francis, Karel Appel, Barnett Newman, René Guiffrey, Gianfranco Baruchello and Albert Ayme as well as on earlier artists, notably Paul Cézanne and Paul Klee.\n\nHe developed these themes in particular by discussing the sublime. The \"sublime\" is a term in aesthetics whose fortunes revived under postmodernism after a century or more of neglect. It refers to the experience of pleasurable anxiety that we experience when confronting wild and threatening sights like, for example, a massive craggy mountain, black against the sky, looming terrifyingly in our vision. A sublime is the conjunction of two opposed feelings, which makes it harder for us to see the injustice of it, or a solution to it.\n\nLyotard found particularly interesting the explanation of the sublime offered by Immanuel Kant in his \"Critique of Judgment\" (sometimes \"Critique of the Power of Judgment\"). In this book, Kant explains this mixture of anxiety and pleasure in the following terms: there are two kinds of 'sublime' experience. In the 'mathematically' sublime, an object strikes the mind in such a way that we find ourselves unable to take it in as a whole. More precisely, we experience a clash between our reason (which tells us that all objects are finite) and the imagination (the aspect of the mind that organizes what we see, and which sees an object incalculably larger than ourselves, and feels infinite). In the 'dynamically' sublime, the mind recoils at an object so immeasurably more powerful than we, whose weight, force, scale could crush us without the remotest hope of our being able to resist it. (Kant stresses that if we are in \"actual\" danger, our feeling of anxiety is very different from that of a sublime feeling. The sublime is an aesthetic experience, not a practical feeling of personal danger.) This explains the feeling of anxiety.\n\nWhat is deeply unsettling about the mathematically sublime is that the mental faculties that present visual perceptions to the mind are inadequate to the concept corresponding to it; in other words, what we are able to make ourselves see cannot fully match up to what we know is there. We know it's a mountain but we cannot take the whole thing into our perception. Our sensibility is incapable of coping with such sights, but our reason can assert the finitude of the presentation. With the dynamically sublime, our sense of physical danger should prompt an awareness that we are not just physical material beings, but moral and (in Kant's terms) noumenal beings as well. The body may be dwarfed by its power but our reason need not be. This explains, in both cases, why the sublime is an experience of pleasure as well as pain.\n\nLyotard is fascinated by this admission, from one of the philosophical architects of the Enlightenment, that the mind cannot always organise the world rationally. Some objects are simply incapable of being brought neatly under concepts. For Lyotard, in \"Lessons on the Analytic of the Sublime\", but drawing on his argument in \"The Differend\", this is a good thing. Such generalities as 'concepts' fail to pay proper attention to the particularity of things. What happens in the sublime is a crisis where we realise the inadequacy of the imagination and reason to each other. What we are witnessing, says Lyotard, is actually the differend; the straining of the mind at the edges of itself and at the edges of its conceptuality.\n\nIn one of Lyotard's most famous books, \"Libidinal Economy\" he offers a critique of Marx’s \"false consciousness\" and claims that the 19th century working class enjoyed being a part of the industrialization process. Lyotard claims that this is due to libidinal energy. The term \"libidinal\" coming from the term \"libido\" which is used to refer to the psychoanalytical desires of our deeper consciousness. Lyotard’s writings in \"Libidinal Economy\" is an achievement in our attempts to live with the rejection of all religious and moral principles through an undermining of the structures associated with it. Structures conceal libidinal intensities while intense feelings and desires force us away from set structures. However, there also can be no intensities or desires without structures, because there would be no dream of escaping the repressive structures if they do not exist. \"Libidinal energy comes from this disruptive intervention of external events within structures that seek order and self-containment.\" This was the first of Lyotard's writings that had really criticized a Marxist view. It achieved great success, but was also the last of Lyotard's writings on this particular topic where he really went against the views of Karl Marx.\n\nIn 1985, Lyotard co-curated the exhibition \"Les Immatériaux\" at the Centre de Création Industrielle of Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris, together with the design theorist and curator Thierry Chaput.\n\nLyotard was impressed by the importance of childhood in human life, which he saw as providing the opportunity of creativity, as opposed to the settled hubris of maturity. In 'The Grip', however, he also explored the hold of childhood experience on the individual through the (Roman) concept of the Mancipium, or authoritative right of possession. Because parental influences affect the new-born before it has the linguistic skill even to articulate – let alone oppose – them, Lyotard considered that \"We are born from others but also to others, given over defenceless to them. Subject to their \"mancipium\".\"\n\nSome of the latest works that Lyotard had been working on were both writings about a French writer, activist, and politician, André Malraux. One of them being a biography, \"Signed, Malraux\". Lyotard was interested in the aesthetic views of society that Malraux shared. Lyotard's other book was named \"The Confession of Augustine\" and was a study in the phenomenology of time. This work-in-progress was published posthumously in the same year of Lyotard's death.\n\nLyotard repeatedly returned to the notion of the Postmodern in essays gathered in English as \"The Postmodern Explained to Children\", \"Toward the Postmodern\", and \"Postmodern Fables\". In 1998, while preparing for a conference on postmodernism and media theory, he died unexpectedly from a case of leukemia that had advanced rapidly. He is buried in Division 6 of Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris.\n\nThere are three major criticisms of Lyotard's work. Each coincides with a school of thought. Jacques Derrida and Jean-Luc Nancy have written deconstructions of Lyotard's work (Derrida 1992; Nancy 1985). They focus on Lyotard's postmodern work and on \"The Differend\" in particular. A differend depends upon a distinction drawn between groups that itself depends upon the heterogeneity of language games and genres of discourse. Why should these differences be privileged over an endless division and reconstruction of groups? In concentrating on specific differences, Lyotard's thought becomes overly dependent on differences; between categories that are given as fixed and well defined. From the point of view of deconstruction, Lyotard's philosophy gives too much credit to illegitimate categories and groups. Underlying any different there is a multiplicity of further differences; some of these will involve crossing the first divide, others will question the integrity of the groups that were originally separated.\n\nManfred Frank (1988) has put the Frankfurt School criticism best. It attacks Lyotard's search for division over consensus on the grounds that it involves a philosophical mistake with serious political and social repercussions. Lyotard has failed to notice that an underlying condition for consensus is also a condition for the successful communication of his own thought. It is a performative contradiction to give an account that appeals to our reason on behalf of a difference that is supposed to elude it. So, in putting forward a false argument against a rational consensus, Lyotard plays into the hands of the irrational forces that often give rise to injustice and differ ends. Worse, he is then only in a position to testify to that injustice, rather than put forward a just and rational resolution.\n\nFrom a Nietzschean and Deleuzian point of view (James Williams 2000), Lyotard's postmodern philosophy took a turn toward a destructive modern nihilism that his early work avoids. The different and the sublime are negative terms that introduce a severe pessimism at the core of Lyotard's philosophy. Both terms draw lines that cannot be crossed and yet they mark the threshold of that which is most valuable for the philosophy, that which is to be testified to and its proper concern. It is not possible repetitively to lend an ear to the sublime without falling into despair due to its fleeting nature. Whenever we try to understand or even memorize: the activity of testimony through the sublime, it can only be as something that has now dissipated and that we cannot capture.\n\nCharles J. Stivale, of Wayne State University, wrote a critique of Lyotard's \"The Differend\" for \"The French Review\", in 1990. In it, he states: \"Jean-François Lyotard's is a dense work of philosophical, political and ethical reflection aimed at a specialized audience versed in current debates in logic, pragmatics and post-structuralism. Even George Van Den Abbeele's excellent translation, complete with a glossary of French terms not available in the original text (Paris: Minuit, 1983), does not, indeed cannot, alleviate the often terse prose with which Lyotard develops his reasoning. With this said, I must also observe that this work is of vital importance in a period when revisionism of all stripes attempts to rewrite, and often simply deny, the occurrence of historical and cultural events, i.e. in attempting to reconstruct 'reality\" in the convenient names of \"truth\" and \"common sense\" … This overview must leave unexplored the broad philosophical bases from which Lyotard draws support, as well as important questions that he raises regarding history, justice and critical judgement. I can conclude only by suggesting that this work, despite the formidable difficulties inherent to its carefully articulated arguments, offers readers a rich formulation of precise questions for and about the current period of critical transition and re-opening in philosophy, ethics and aesthetics.\"\n\nThe collective tribute to Lyotard following his death was organized by the Collège International de Philosophie, and chaired by Dolores Lyotard and Jean-Claude Milner, the College's director at that time. The proceedings were published by PUF in 2001 under the general title \"Jean-François Lyotard, l'exercice du différend\".\n\nLyotard's work continues to be important in politics, philosophy, sociology, literature, art, and cultural studies. To mark the tenth anniversary of Lyotard's death, An international symposium about Jean-François Lyotard organized by the Collège International de Philosophie (under the direction of Dolores Lyotard, Jean-Claude Milner and Gerald Sfez) was held in Paris from January 25–27 in 2007.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49688450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49688450", "title": "Josephine Rector", "text": "Josephine Rector\n\nJosephine Rector (September 25, 1885, Indiana - October 1, 1958, Castro Valley) was an American scriptwriter and actress. Working for the Essanay company based in Oakland, Rector had a short career in the silent film period of cinema, with all her known films released from between 1911 and 1914 for the Essanay company. She is sometimes also referred to as Mrs. Hal Angus, after her second husband, Hal Angus, whom she married after leaving Essanay in 1914.\n\nShe entered the film industry after discussing story ideas with the actor Jack O'Brien. She sold her first scripts to Essanay when it was located in Los Gatos in 1910-1911. She has also worked with George Kirke Spoor, distributor of screen equipment and Gilbert M. Anderson, or \"Broncho Billy\" Anderson, an actor, director and producer, who is the cowboy star in most of the films she worked in. Ultimately, Rector decided not to move to Hollywood, which became the centre of the film industry, and ran a flower shop in Hayward, California in later life. Most of her films are now lost, and none of her original scripts are known to survive.\n\nRector, born as Josephine Pickel, grew up in Montana where her father was a miner. She had no problem with Western culture since she was used to riding horses, and outdoor activities. In the 1890s, Josephine used to follow her father, a miner, over the Chilkoot Pass to retrieve some gold in the waters of the Yukon. This lifestyle helped her with her acting, later on, in the Essanay Company, who specialized in Western-style films.\n\nJosephine Rector started working with Essanay before they moved their second office in Niles. She later met Jack O'Brien, Anderson's secretary, around the beginning of 1911, in Los Gatos, California. She wrote her first film, \"Across the Plains\", in 1911. Rector discussed her ideas of writing to O'Brien, who encouraged her to send them to \"Hayward Daily Review\"'s account. Not long after that, her colleague Anderson, and company, left San Francisco, while Josephine stayed to live with both her sons. Gilbert M. Anderson was a difficult individual to work with on set and when he asked Rector to come to San Francisco, she replied: \"No, I’ve had enough of you\". When her oldest son died around that time, she was rehired seven months later by the same crew, who moved back to San Rafael for work. Anderson realized how valuable Josephine's work is to the company and asked her: \"Send all the stories you have and also let me know how your account stands… I appreciate your work and realize you are a great help to us\".\n\nOn April 1, 1912, they set up camp near the Wesley Hotel where they would film. She then worked with them one more time in San Rafael and became the head of the scenario department, in April 1912, in Niles, where she also acted in a couple of parts. She started working with them for fifteen dollars a week and would sometimes be in front of the camera too. Rector would make sure Essanay was ready with all the scripts needed. She had her own office in the Essanay studio, located in Niles, where she writes her scripts. Josephine left the Essanay organization on April 1914.\n\nIn May 1914, after getting married to Hal Angus, a fellow actor, she and her husband worked for the Pacific Motion Picture Company, a company in which they created in order to make films. Unfortunately, it hasn't been successful. In 1915, she worked for the Yolo Film Company. Later on, she ran a flower shop until 1926 with Hal, in Hayward, California and after that, she became a housewife.\n\nSeveral months before she died, Rector confirmed, in an interview, that she equally liked acting as much as writing and was remembering the times when there were no doubles.\n\nIn an \"Oakland Tribune\" interview, a few decades later, Josephine Rector reveals that some of the best scripts were inspired by pulp magazines from the Oakland Public Library. \"The Dance at Eagle Pass\" (1913), one of Rector's greatest work, refers to one of these magazines.\n\n"}
{"id": "34437296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34437296", "title": "List of chicken colours", "text": "List of chicken colours\n\nBreeders and fanciers of chickens accurately describe the colours and patterns of the feathers of chicken breeds and varieties. This is a list of the terms used in this context.\n\nSelf chickens are one-coloured, i.e. lacking a \"pattern\". Show quality strains may have even pigmentation throughout the outer plumage, production or pet quality strains are likely to not.\n\n"}
{"id": "9631840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9631840", "title": "List of destroyed libraries", "text": "List of destroyed libraries\n\nLibraries have been deliberately or accidentally destroyed or badly damaged. Sometimes a library is purposely destroyed as a form of cultural cleansing.\n\nThere are examples of accidentally destroyed libraries by human actions. Other times they are damaged by natural disasters like earthquakes, floods or accidental fires.\n\nLibrary fires have happened sporadically through the centuries: notable examples are the destruction of the Library of Alexandria, destruction of Library of Nalanda in India and the accidental burning of the Duchess Anna Amalia Library in Weimar. Causes vary from arson to the sun's rays setting fire to leaflets through the action of a magnifying lens, as happened to a library in Northam, Devon.\n\nIn earlier times mildew was considered a major problem in many libraries and so the emphasis on library design was to increase air flow by, for example, leaving openings under the shelves in adjoining floors. In a fire the flames will be drawn floor to floor by the air flow thus ensuring the relatively easy destruction of a whole library rather than a small section.\n\nAdvances in technology have reduced the possibility of a library collection being destroyed by fire. These include water sprinklers, fire doors, freezers, alarms, smoke detectors, suppression systems, and emergency generators. Older libraries are usually converted by closing up air flow openings and installing fire doors, alarms and sprinklers. Air conditioning reduces the mold problems. These are all essential parts of new library design.\n\nThere is no recovery possible if a book is burnt so it is accepted that a better solution is to put out the fire with water and then dry out the books. As mold destroys paper the books are frozen until they can be dried. This process will damage the book but not destroy it and the information will be intact.\n\nIn order to minimize the possibility of damage from fire, or other causes, and decrease the time needed for recovery after a destructive event, all libraries need a disaster management and recovery plan. This can be an ongoing process which will include professional development following updates in technology for key staff, training for the remaining staff, checking and maintaining disaster kits, and review of the disaster plan.\n\nIn addition, fire-safety investigations are periodically carried out, especially regarding historical libraries. The Library of Congress, for example, experienced a year-long inspection in 2000. Before the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, the Library of Congress and all Capitol Hill buildings were exempt from safety regulations. Balancing historical preservation and contemporary safety standards proves to be a difficult task for \"even a 12-year rehabilitation of LC completed in 1997 did not address many fire hazards\". After the Compliance Office inspection, however, the LC announced their wholehearted commitment \"to achieving the highest level of safety possible\" and \"the Architect of the Capitol and Library of Congress will report their progress to the Office of Compliance every three months\".\n\nInformation technology is another catalyst for careful fire protection. With so many computers in libraries there \"is a decrease in floor space and an increase in more compact and powerful computer systems\" which generates more heat and requires the use of many more outlets, increasing the number of potential ignition sources. From as early as the 1950s the potential dangers of computer equipment, and the facilities that house them, was recognized. Thus in 1962 the National Fire Protection Association began developing the first safety standards specifically applicable to electronic computer systems. This standard is called NFPA 75 Protection of Information Technology Equipment. FM Global Data Sheet 5–32 is another standard providing guidelines to protect against not only fire, but water, power loss, etc.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9783976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9783976", "title": "Lynne Rossetto Kasper", "text": "Lynne Rossetto Kasper\n\nLynne Rossetto Kasper is an American food writer and radio journalist. She was the host of the American Public Media program \"The Splendid Table\", whose targeted audience is \"people who love to eat.\" The weekly program features a series of interviews with chefs, restaurateurs, and wine experts. Guests vary from week to week, but the show frequently includes a segment with food travelers and authors Jane and Michael Stern. During her episode on February 10, 2017, Lynne announced her retirement from \"The Splendid Table\". She will be replaced by Francis Lam.\n\nIn 1993 Rossetto Kasper won the James Beard Cookbook of the Year Award for her book \"The Splendid Table: Recipes from Emilia Romagna, The Heartland of Northern Italian Food\". Her radio show has won the prestigious James Beard Award on two occasions: in 1998 for Best National Radio Show and 2008 for Best Radio Food Show.\n\nThere is also a tomato variety, a hybrid of Matt's Wild Cherry and Black Krim, named after her.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "710906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=710906", "title": "My Girl 2", "text": "My Girl 2\n\nMy Girl 2 is a 1994 American comedy-drama film starring Anna Chlumsky, Dan Aykroyd, Christine Ebersole, Jamie Lee Curtis, Richard Masur, and Austin O'Brien. A sequel to \"My Girl\" (1991), its plot follows a now-teenaged Vada Sultenfuss, who travels from her home in suburban Pennsylvania to Los Angeles to find more information about her deceased mother.\n\nA book based on the script was written by Patricia Hermes in 1994.\n\nIn the spring of 1974, nearly two years following the events of the first film, Vada Sultenfuss sets out on a quest to learn more about her deceased biological mother. She has matured from the spunky, eleven-year-old hypochondriac to a lively, yet more serious teenager seeking independence. Her father Harry and his new wife Shelly DeVoto, whom he dated in the first film, are expecting a baby. They still live in the Sultenfuss funeral home in Madison, Pennsylvania, while Harry's brother Phil has moved to Los Angeles, where he works as a mechanic. Gramoo, Vada's grandmother, is no longer alive. Vada still has her mood ring from two years earlier and wears it in memory of her late best friend Thomas J., who died retrieving it for her after she had lost it. \n\nTo accommodate the new baby, Vada moves out of her bedroom and into Gramoo's old room, and it brings further problems with adjustment. Vada even thinks about getting her own apartment while spending a night out with her father. Vada is given a school assignment to write an essay on someone she admires but has never met. She decides to write about her mother but has few sources to go on, which are all confined to a small box. Among its contents are programs of plays her mother was in, a passport, and a mystery paper bag with a date scribbled on it. Vada expresses her desire to travel someday, so Shelly concocts a plan for her to travel to Los Angeles during her spring break, where she can stay with her uncle Phil and do research on her mother, who was from there. Harry initially does not go along with the idea, believing Vada is too young to be traveling by herself, but ultimately allows her take the five-day trip.\n\nUpon arriving in L.A., Vada finds herself confronting a boy her age named Nick, who comes to pick her up at the airport. Nick is the son of Phil's girlfriend Rose, the owner of the car repair shop where Phil works. As a favor to Phil, though annoyed at first about sacrificing his own spring break, Nick helps Vada with the difficult search of learning more about her mother. Their investigation is stalled when Vada learns that her mother's old high school burned down, but she and Nick still manage to track down a yearbook from a year her mother attended. \n\nVada and Nick meet several people who knew her mother. Some of the things she finds out do not sit well with her, such as her mother being suspended from school for smoking. Two of these acquaintances have a look at the paper bag from Vada's small box of memories about her mother, but neither can decipher it. When another blurts out the name Jeffrey Pommeroy, thinking that he is Vada's father, Vada is crushed and wonders why her father never mentioned this person. Eventually, though with some hesitation, she goes to see Jeffrey, her mother's first husband. He provides Vada with valuable information to help with her essay, including home movies and the answer behind the date written on the paper bag. Seeing the home movies touches Vada, as she watches her mother act, as well as sing a song called \"Smile\".\n\nMeanwhile, Phil has trouble proving his love to Rose after a man frequently shows up at the repair shop and continuously flatters her. When Phil finally gets the courage to show Rose what she means to him, he proposes. As Vada is ready to head home, she and Nick share a goodbye kiss at the airport before she boards the plane. In her backpack, she finds earrings Nick placed there for her newly pierced ears. When Vada returns home, she realizes Shelly just had a baby boy and heads to the hospital to see her new brother. To calm his crying, Vada sings \"Smile\" while holding him. Vada's essay on her mother receives an A+, and she hopes to share what she learned during her trip with her brother someday.\n\n\nThe film debuted at number 4 at the U.S. box office, earning approximately $5 million during its opening weekend. It went on to gross $17,359,799 domestically.\n\nPeter Rainer of the \"Los Angeles Times\" was critical of the film, writing that its \"dubious scenario is made even more so by the treacly approach of director Howard Zieff and screenwriter Janet Kovalcik. Everything in this film is sugared with sermons about the importance of Being Yourself. Vada doesn't experience any twinges of rage at the loss of her mother or any misgivings about her quest. She's preternaturally mature.\"\n\nStephen Holden of \"The New York Times\", however, commended it as \"appealingly sentimental,\" adding: \"Where the first movie forced Vada to face some jarring realities (a best friend's death, a grandmother's senility) and was heavily salted with mortuary humor, the atmosphere of the sequel is softer and more golden. Among other things, the film is a nostalgic valentine to Los Angeles in palmier days when the city still wore the mystique of a laid-back, post-hippie lotus land.\"\n\nRoger Ebert awarded the film two out of four stars, noting that it \"seems inspired mostly by the opportunity to recycle the title of a successful film. Scrutinizing the popularity of the first film, perhaps the producers thought it depended on gentle sentimentality, in which a likable young girl deals with the loss of loved ones. As an idea for a series, this is fairly dangerous...  I think it's time to give Vada a break, before she becomes a necrophile, and starts spending all of her time upstairs like Emily Dickinson, writing bleak little poems.\" Joe Leydon of \"Variety\" deemed the film a \"pleasant, painless and, as sequels go, genuinely ambitious,\" but conceded that it \"may not be enough...  to broaden its appeal beyond its obvious target audience of preteen and young adolescent girls (and, of course, tag-along parents and boyfriends).\"\n\nColumbia-TriStar Home Entertainment released the film on VHS on June 11, 1996. It was released for the first time on DVD in the United States on December 3, 2002.\n\nFor her performance, Chlumsky won a Young Artist Award for \"Best Performance by a Young Actress Starring in a Motion Picture\"; Thomson and O'Brien were also nominated for Young Artist Awards for their roles.\n\nFor several years \"Still My Girl\" was proposed as the third motion picture in the \"My Girl\" movie franchise and it was in development at Columbia Pictures. In his 2003 United Kingdom talk show interview with host Michael Parkinson, Dan Aykroyd stated that Columbia had an interest in getting this off the ground and strong interest in Anna Chlumsky returning to her role as Vada. In 2009, both Chlumsky and Aykroyd were still attached to the project but as the time passed it was becoming less and less likely that it would ever go into production.\n\n"}
{"id": "44628920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44628920", "title": "Our English Coasts, 1852 ('Strayed Sheep')", "text": "Our English Coasts, 1852 ('Strayed Sheep')\n\nOur English Coasts, also known as Strayed Sheep, is an oil-on-canvas painting by William Holman Hunt, completed in 1852. It has been held by the Tate Gallery since 1946, acquired through The Art Fund.\n\nWilliam Holman Hunt was a British painter, who co-founded the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood (1848), along with Dante Gabriel Rossetti and John Everett Millais. The Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood advocated a return to spirituality and sincerity of the arts, despising academic painting, which they considered a mere repetition of clichés.Despite these beliefs, the group created a number of works for institutes of higher learning in England. \nUnder the Victorian era (1837–1901) the conservative academic aspect was represented by the Royal Academy. Among the more radical options was the movement Arts and Crafts, led by William Morris. William Holman Hunt was somewhere in the middle. Although he studied at the Royal Academy of Arts, he rejected the style imposed by its founder Sir Joshua Reynolds.\n\nAfter Holman Hunt's painting \"The Hireling Shepherd\" was acquired by William Broderip, this work was commissioned by Broderip's cousin, Charles Theobald Maud, as reproduction of the sheep in the background. Maud was persuaded to accept a more adventurous composition. He worked \"en plein air\" at the location depicted between August and December 1852, despite cold and rainy weather. The painting combines features from different vantage points, with butterflies added in the studio modelled from life.\n\nThe painting depicts a flock of sheep lining the picturesque coast of Sussex. The scenic location painted rests on the cliffs at Fairlight Glen, beside Covehurst Bay, near Hastings, called the \"Lovers' Seat\". \n\nThe painting is painted in many layers, with brilliant colours, as many of Hunt's paintings are painted.\n\nIt was exhibited at the Royal Academy summer exhibition in 1853 under the title \"Our English Coasts\", but the frame bore the inscription \"The Lost Sheep\", and it was renamed \"Strayed Sheep\" when it was exhibited at the Exposition Universelle in Paris in 1855. It was acquired by the Tate Gallery in 1946, through The Art Fund.\n\n"}
{"id": "31258083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31258083", "title": "Permian bronze casts", "text": "Permian bronze casts\n\nPermian bronze casts—Permic and Western Siberian animal style cult cast figurines—were the predominant form of Finno-Ugrian toreutics of the 3–12th centuries CE. It was spread throughout a large area of forests of the north-eastern Urals and western Siberia from the basins of the Kama and Vyatka to the Ob. In the Middle Ages, these territories were inhibited mostly by the Ugrian tribes, ancestors of the present day Hungarians and Ob-Ugrians – the Khanty and the Mansi people. Their style is referred to as the 'Permian animal style.'\n\nFirst collections of these works of arts and their scholarly research date back to the end of the 19th century. Despite over a century of research into the field, Perm animal style still remains one of the most mysterious cultural phenomena of Eurasia. This can be explained by the absence of written tradition of its creators and lack of external historic evidence about the creators of the bronze images in the heyday of the animal style. The golden age of cult metallurgy began immediately after the period of the Great Migrations (4-5th centuries CE) and continued in the epoch of the medieval Urals and Siberia of 6-11th centuries CE. A large collection was amassed by the Stroganov family in Perm.\n\nThe researchers point to the influence of Scytho-Sarmatian animal style on the development of cult toreutics of the forests of the north: famous animal battle scenes, vertical model of the Universe in the form of three worlds – three levels of the plaques and the cult of the great mother-goddess are present in both styles.Perm animal style objects include metalwork of bronze with the usage of single- or double-sided forms for casting, bone and wooden carvings, engravings on metal and bone objects. Figures depicted on the images are elks, rain-deers, bears, fur-bearing and other types of animals, horses, different waterfowl and birds of prey, snakes, insects and a number of “complex creatures” of mixed nature (hybrids), mixed zoomorphic and anthropomorphic half-human creatures; there are also a number of images of horsemen. The stories, which the Perm animal style plaques tell, are numerous and diverse.The objects are found in the hoards, on the sites of the temples, among the skeletons, in burials, as part of sacrificial complexes or on the sites of metallurgical workshops. Most of the bronze artifacts were used as a cult figures for the sacred rites.\n\nIt should be noted that the sculptural embodiment of a spirit or an ancestor is not the monument for him, neither it is the place where the spirit dwells, but the deity itself. Wooden or metal ingots and the spirits or souls cocooned inside them are inseparable unit, so that the figurine becomes a divine piece of wood or metal. Kustaa Fredrik Karjalainen uses the Khanty notion of “tonx” to describe the idea of one of human souls. The images were made for “tonx”. “After a piece of wood has been given a shape of a human or after a tin cast, having a certain human form, has hardened, it is important to transfer or to indwell in it a “tonx” of the spirit which the figurine depicts, and only after that the image becomes a “tonx” to which necessary honours can be given\". The specialists believe that for making figurines the real wooden models were used which were painted or rubbed with the sacrificial blood.\n\nRaw material for copper casting were cupriferrous sandstones of the Upper Kama. The alloys mostly consisted of copper (up to 86%), tin (10-17%), sometimes zinc (up to 7%) and arsenic. In the first millennium CE in the Upper Kama, as well in other regions of European North-East and Ob region, the coppers used were high in tin and zinc.\n\nThe objects of the animal style are usually divided into two groups, according to their function and the sphere of usage. The first group is Perm-Pechora bronze open-work objects having worship purpose. Certain objects from this group have a complicated composition, a sophisticated story behind them and many-leveled structure.Most artistically expressive compositions are 3-leveled cosmological compositions with a goddess in the center. Upper level consists of the heads of elks, heavenly faces, and soul birds associated with the Higher World of heavenly creatures, middle level is an earthly world of people and animals. The ruler of the Middle world is a deity (mother goddess) depicted in the center, and an animal at her feet is as a rule hybrid animal consisting of parts of different terrestrial animals – it marks the borders of Lower invisible world.The hallmark of the Perm animal style is the images of elk peoples, and to be more precise, the image of man-bird-elk, found nowhere else in the territory of Eurasia.The second group is the Transural, Western-Siberia animal style. There are a lot of applied and decorative artifacts – decorations, including costume decorations – belt plates, buckles, clasps, bracelets with zoomorphic images, pendants, beads, pommels, sheaths, needle cases, ear-picks, stills and combs. Mythological stories could be seen on the plaques, depicting “complex animals” – mixed bears and fur-bearing animals, on figured pendants in the form of waterfowl, horses, in the images of birds of prey on the pommels.\n\nAccording to the sphere of usage, cult metalwork objects can be devised into groups: for instance, the ones protecting against diseases (they were as a norm kept at home), the others – “spirits of the happiness” – bringing luck as a response to the sacrifices (they were inside community temples).The diversity of cult artifacts and mythological stories on the plaques presuppose the existence of developed mythology of the creators of the animal style. Perm Animal Style appeared on the territory of Scytho-Sarmatian world at the beginning of the first millennium CE and disappeared at the beginning of the second millennium, on the eve of the Mongolian invasions. The last traces of this civilization can be observed in the traditional culture of the Ob-Ugrians – the Khantys and the Mansis. Casting of objects for worship existed for over a thousand years and ensured the unity of the pagan world of the Urals and Western Siberia.\n\n"}
{"id": "46684925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46684925", "title": "Phebe Hobson Fowler Architectural Award", "text": "Phebe Hobson Fowler Architectural Award\n\nThe Phebe Hobson Fowler Architectural Award is awarded by the American Society of Civil Engineers for an outstanding contribution to architecture. It was established in 1928 by Charles Evan Fowler and has been presented infrequently.\n"}
{"id": "9538397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9538397", "title": "Photomarathon", "text": "Photomarathon\n\nA photomarathon is a photography competition in which participants must take a series of photographs on predetermined subjects in a set period of time, typically 12 to 24 hours. On most competitions, part of the rules is that photos should be handed in \"straight out of camera\" -with no post-editing or production allowed. Photos are typically judged using criteria that combine photographic technique and creativity in interpreting the theme.\n\nThere are over 74 competitions worldwide which use some variations of the rules above.\n\nThe photomarathon concept started in Madrid in 1986, before being taken up in Copenhagen, Denmark, where a competition has been taking place annually since 1989. In 2014 the Danish competition took place in Copenhagen and Aalborg, with separate competitions lasting 6, 12 and 24 hours, for both digital cameras and mobile phones.\n\nThe photographic marathon is an idea generated by Eduardo Soto Perez, Antonio Bolivar Sanchez Cañete, who then were called Collective Cartela (along with Juan Antonio Manzano Aróstegui and Luis Alvarez Gallovich), in late 1983. In 1984, presented to the Youth Department of the City of Madrid (Spain), where Chema de Mingo and Chus Medrano considered the interest of its sponsorship to the cultural dynamism of the city. They obtained the support of Kodak Spain and Albacolor laboratories.\n\nIn 1985 they managed to launch the first edition in Madrid with a surprising success participation (2500 photographers). This competition would be quickly imitated in cities across Spain and many others around the world. The Collective Cartela itself organized 4 successive editions in Madrid. Also held in Santiago de Compostela (Spain) and later, with his partner, Antonio de Juana, in Lisbon (Portugal).\n\nFor 24 hours the photographers had to make 24 photographs with themes that were provided to them 4 by 4, at checkpoints that were performed every 4 hours. The first edition included 2512 participants, the film was in black and white. Participants should pass 6 dynamic controls plus the final film`s collection point. This structure was established as a functional dynamics for subsequent editions. Several version came later, half marathons of 12 hours or even less were made.\n\nGiven the impossibility that existed in Spain to properly register an idea, Eduardo Soto Perez and Antonio Bolívar, now as the company Mil Millones, SA, they proceeded to register Photographic marathon at the Legal Deposit (M-28891-1986) being subsequently also registered in the Registry of Intellectual Property of Madrid with the number 02482. The idea triumphed and soon spread in cities across Spain and other countries, photographic marathons were and are still held in many cities. In 1987 a first Photo Marathon was held in New York, in Stockholm in 1988. In 1989 hold his first Copenhagen Photomarathon, following Berlin in 1998. Both events continue to organize annually.\n\nPhotomarathons and the European Month of Photography\n\nIn 2010 Photomarathons were first represented during the European Month of Photography, with a joint exhibition in Berlin, under the theme \"Time travel\". The exhibition was a retrospective of the 10 years of the Photomarathon in Berlin, and included the three winning series of Copenhagen and Cardiff photomarathons.\n\nIn 2012, the photomarathons in the cities of Copenhagen, Cardiff and Berlin shared the same topic, with the winning photographs in each city being exhibited in the others.\n\nOne reason for the massive success of this contest was to combine photography and action: conducting urban photographic adventures.\n\nThe proposed themes stimulate the creativity of the participants (for example: \"They come from abroad\"), thousands of photographers concentrated in certain parts of the city in a precise moment (“Walking by Puerta del Sol at twelve o'clock when I decided to take a picture of the clock\"), or filled parks with excited reporters trying to capture the image suggested (\"Elf, a costumed character who must be locate and photograph in the Buen Retiro Park”).\n\nThis opened a new dimension to photographic competitions introducing ingenuity, spontaneity, active participation and creativity, and perseverance and physical and mental strength to complete 24 hours of the contest.\n\nThe photographers competed but also made friends, had fun and acquired a better knowledge of their city, museums, places and services. In addition the organization prepared in each control artistic and cultural activities (small plays of theater, exhibition of short films, musical performances, art exhibitions, participatory structures, mazes, swimming in a public pool at dawn, etc.) all that were organized exclusively for the photographers during the contest.\n\nSome of the topics that were proposed along 4 editions held in Madrid: \"Self Portrait,\" \"Music, music, music\", \"News of the Day\", \"Sunrise in Madrid\" \"Morning Sport\", \"Nature, flora and fauna\", \"Madrid`s Cocidito\", \"Will jump to 12.00 from the top of the Torre de Madrid\", \"Stumble\", \"Untitled\", \"Farewell\" , etc.\n\nThe jury, choose among photographers and artists of renown (Ouka Lele, Miguel Trillo, Ciuco, Jorge Arranz, etc.) and, from the second edition on, incorporating the winners of the previous editions (Daniel Font, Amador Toril Jose Antonio Red, etc.). The awards were given at a mass party followed for an exhibition of photographs of the winners.\n\nThe photomarathon has also been used by some educationalists as a study aid.\n\nThere are over 80 photomarathons held around the world in over 30 countries. The vast majority are throughout Europe, North America and South America. In Asia there is a competition in Yangon, Myanmar and since 2014 in Shenyang, China. In Africa a photomarathon is held in Nairobi, Kenya.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6668523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6668523", "title": "Puerto Rican art", "text": "Puerto Rican art\n\nWith the country's ethnically diverse background, Puerto Rican art reflects many diverse influences.\n\nPuerto Rican art includes an especially beloved form of folk art, evolved from the Spanish church's use of sculptures to convert indigenous Puerto Ricans to Christianity. Santos, meaning \"saints\" in Spanish, depict figures of saints and other religious icons. Families continue to pass this centuries-old craft down from generation to generation. The artisans, called santeros, create Santos from native wood, clay, and stone. After shaping simple effigies, they often finish by painting them in vivid colors. Santos varies in size, from about eight to about twenty inches tall. Traditionally, Santos was seen as messengers between the earth and Heaven. As such, they occupied a special place on household altars, where people prayed to them, asked for help, or tried to summon their protection.\n\nCaretas, masks are worn during carnivals, are also popular. Similar masks signifying evil spirits were used in both Spain and Africa, though for different purposes. The Spanish used their masks to frighten lapsed Christians into returning to the church, while tribal Africans used them as protection from the evil spirits they represented. Puerto Rican caretas always bear at least several horns and fangs, true to their historical origins. While they are usually constructed of papier-mâché, coconut shells and fine metal screening are sometimes used as well. Though red and black were originally the typical colors for carnitas, their palette has expanded to include a wide variety of bright hues and patterns.§\n\nPerhaps the strongest Spanish influenced on Puerto Rican arts was in painting. During the colonial period, native-born painters emulated classic European styles. The first of these artists to gain international acclaim, José Campeche, learned techniques from both his father, who was also a painter and exiled Spanish artist Luis Paret. His work concentrated on religious themes and portraits of important citizens in Spanish Rococo style. Still regarded as the most important 18th-century painter in the Americas, Campeche is also credited with creating the Puerto Rican national painting.\n\nIn the 19th century, Francisco Oller followed in Campeche's footsteps. He studied in both Madrid and Paris, which greatly influenced his work. Although his paintings often show an Impressionist or Realist style, he altered his style with each piece to suit the subject matter. Landscapes, portraits, and still lifes were all among his works. After moving back to Puerto Rico in 1884, Oller became interested in portraying Puerto Rican subject matter. He also founded an art academy and wrote a book on drawing and painting the natural world.\n\nBy the end of the 20th century, painting no longer defined Puerto Rican art as it once had. \"A group of contemporary artists who came into maturity in the 1990s broke away from nationalistic agendas so crucial to previous generations of artists from Puerto Rico,\" according to curator Silvia Karman Cubiña. \"Instead their works are informed by more personal issues, as well as broader topics such as gender, consumerism, world history, film, and literature.\" The importance of artists such as Allora & Calzadilla, Rosado Seijo, and Arnaldo Morales was \"their social dimension and the potential for interaction with others.\" For others such as Manuel Acevedo, Javier Cambre, Nayda Collazo-Llorens, and Carlos Rivera Villafañe, it was their multi-media and site-specific installations that expanded on the \"nontraditional modes begun in earlier generations, by artists such as Rafael Ferrer and Rafael Montañez Ortiz, and then Antonio Martorell, José Morales, Pepón Osorio. and Beatriz Santiago Muñoz. \n\n"}
{"id": "31687386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31687386", "title": "Seine (Van Gogh series)", "text": "Seine (Van Gogh series)\n\n\"Seine\" (paintings) is the subject and location of paintings that Vincent van Gogh made in 1886. The Seine has been an integral part of Parisian life for centuries for commerce, travel and entertainment. Here van Gogh primarily captures the respite and relief from city life found in nature.\n\nA few of the paintings were made in Paris and the rest in the northwestern suburbs of Paris in Clichy and Asnières. Through these works the audience can see a transition in his work from one of dark colors and serious themes to more joyous use of color and light and choice of themes.\n\nIn the Netherlands van Gogh was influenced by great Dutch masters as well as cousin-in-law Anton Mauve a Dutch realist painter who was a leading member of the Hague School. In Paris van Gogh was exposed to and influenced by Impressionism, Symbolism, Pointillism, and Japanese woodblock print genres which were overtime integrated into his works. The spring of 1887 seemed to trigger an awakening within van Gogh where he experimented with the genres to develop his personal style.\n\nIn the Netherlands van Gogh was influenced by great Dutch masters as well as his cousin-in-law Anton Mauve, a Dutch realist painter and leading member of the Hague School, who had a significant early impact on Vincent van Gogh. To dull colors, van Gogh often added black to his paintings.\n\nIn 1886 van Gogh left the Netherlands for Paris never to return. His brother Theo, a successful Parisian art dealer, provided Vincent the support and connections for an immersion in modern art.\n\nStarting March 1886 van Gogh studied with Fernand Cormon. During that time he lived with Theo who leased a large apartment on Rue Lepic in Montmartre with space for a studio for his brother. Three months later Vincent abandoned his studies with Cormon, but his education continued on an informal basis as he met local artists. During 1886 he was introduced to Impressionist artists and their works, such as Edgar Degas, Claude Monet, Auguste Renoir, Georges Seurat and Paul Signac. In 1887 Van Gogh continued to make important connections with other artists who he befriended and exchanged paintings with, such as Louis Anquetin, Émile Bernard, Armand Guillaumin, Lucien Pissarro and Signac. Many of the Impressionist artists also shared his interest in Japanese ukiyo-e wood block prints. In the two years, from 1886 through 1888, Van Gogh emerged as a sophisticated, thoughtful and provoking artist.\n\nOne of van Gogh's quarrels with Impressionists, though, was subject matter. In the late 1880s the avant-garde painted the modern city, one modified significantly by the work of Baron Georges Haussmann, Napoleon III's Prefect of the Seine. His plan was to build a modern city of \"grand boulevards, bridges and parks\", which figure into van Gogh's works of the Seine, but at an expense. The city lost tens of thousands of old buildings, some of them cherished historical buildings, and displaced tens of thousands of people to the suburbs. Paradoxically, renovations along the Seine provided some of artist's most cherished views. Prior to the renovation buildings crowded the Seine, which could only be reached at right angles from narrow streets. New bridges were built and existing ones rebuilt, without shops and other structures that previously sat on the bridges. The city benefited by more light and air and improved commerce. To celebrate the modern city, Impressionists painted the changing urban landscape. Many, including van Gogh, felt that the city \"now dwarfed the individual.\" This was one of the key reasons for van Gogh's growing unease in Paris.\n\nThe Seine (Latin: Sequana) is named for its snake-like course from inland France to the English Channel at Le Havre. Numerous locks and bridges are found in the river Seine. The Seine is rich in history, provides commercial navigation and has been a source of inspiration to artists for centuries. For more than 4,500 years, the Seine has provided a means of transportation. As Paris grew, the Seine was important for trade of commodities such as firewood, grain and wine. Efficient travel, though, was not possible until canals were added and river depths were controlled in the mid to late 19thcentury. Many of key Paris buildings and monuments are located along the Seine.\n\nStarting in the 1860s Impressionists left their studios to paint \"en plein air\" (in the open air) and one of their first subjects was the Seine. Paul Gauguin painted Pont d'Iéna, the future site of the Eiffel Tower, when the area was filled with homes and gardens. From Notre Dame de Paris, Camille Pissarro painted the Louvre. Armand Guillaumin captured the smoke spewing factory chimneys of Ivy. In 1874 Alfred Sisley made the graphic paintings of the floods of Le Port-Marly, located near Paris. Claude Monet, Édouard Manet and Auguste Renoir painted bridges, trees and sailboats at Argenteuil located in the northwestern suburbs of Paris. And van Gogh and others painted the Seine.\n\nLonging for tranquil settings, van Gogh began to paint beyond the city fortifications and along the banks of the Seine, in Asnières and the island of Grand Jatte. He experimented with a lighter, more colorful palette than used in his early Dutch paintings or \"Montmartre\" series.\n\nUpon arriving in Paris in March 1886, the Musée du Louvre was the first placed van Gogh visited, directly after exiting the train. In late 1886 he writes of his interest in Impressionism, yet not quite \"joined the club\". His intention, he says, is to use vivid color and not greys. In 1886, he did twelve landscapes, \"frankly green frankly blue\" [such as \"Lane at the Jardin du Luxembourg\"] as he struggled \"for life and progress in art\". It was in July 1886 that his brother Theo began to notice changes in Vincent's paintings and noted Parisian artists began swapping paintings with him.\n\n\"Pont du Carrousel with Louvre\" depicts the bridge that crosses the Seine named Pont du Carrousel and behind it the Louvre. Pont de Carrousel is a bridge that leads to the Louvre which is accessed through \"guichets\" du Carrousel and guichets du Louvre. Guichets are gates and commonly used for the passages into the Louvre. The Louvre was built about 1200 as a fortress. In the 14thcentury the Louvre was expanded to a residence for Charles V. The old fortress was removed in the 16thcentury replaced by a Renaissance palace which was expanded over the years. It is now one of the world's most important museums, its collections starting from works held by the kings of France.\n\n\"Lane at the Jardin du Luxembourg\" is situated in the gardens of the Palais Luxembourg. The Palais Luxembourg was built in 1615 for Marie de' Medici, widow of Henry IV, on the grounds of the mansion of François de Luxembourg, duc de Piney, that she purchased in 1612. She did not feel at home at the Louvre and desired to live in a place that reminded her of her homeland, Florence. During the Revolution the palace was overtaken and became a state prison. In 1795 it became the site of the first Directory and then the seat of the senate for Napoleon. The Luxembourg Gardens are now a public park and a place of respite for residents and visitors of Paris. Among the treed grounds are fountains and statues.\n\nThe painting also named \"Terrace in the Luxembourg Garden\" depicts a spring day in the park. Here Van Gogh has begun to leverage what he has learned about modern art, color and light. Thick brushstrokes foretell his evolving style. The remoteness with which the painting was made is typical of an Impressionist's approach.\n\nVan Gogh remained anxious and lonely during his first year in Paris, but with the spring in 1887 he began to explore outside of central Paris for more pastoral settings. From Rue Lepic in Montmartre van Gogh took the Boulevard de Clichy to the southern banks of the Seine in the old Commune de Clichy. Beyond that was Asnières and La Grand Jatte island, also the scene of van Gogh's paintings of the Seine.\n\nOf making \"The Seine with the Pont de Clichy\", also named \"Bridges of Asnières\" (F303), van Gogh wrote, \"I've been worried by the sunset with figures and a bridge that I spoke of to Bernard. The bad weather prevented me working on the spot and I’ve completely ruined it trying to finish it at home. However I began again at once, the same subject on another canvas, but as the weather was quite different, in grey tones and without figures.\"\n\nIn one of van Gogh's early works of Porte de Clichy, one of the city gates into Paris, \"Gate in the Paris ramp, 1886\" (F1401), image not shown, van Gogh began to experiment with adding brighter, contrasting colors to his paintings. Porte de Clichy is one of entrances through the fortifications of Paris, 30kilometers in length, that surround the city. In the summer of 1887 he produced four watercolors of these city defences. In making this painting van Gogh sketched the ramparts while making note of the colors that he wished to use, such as violet for the left wall and yellow for the right one. van Gogh also made a watercolor painting of \"The Fortifications of Paris with Houses\" also known as \"The Ramparts of Paris\" in 1887.\n\nAsnières (pronounced /a-nee-air/), now named Asnières-sur-Seine, is a town in the northern suburbs of Paris located on the banks of the Seine and near the fortifications of Paris. In the 19thcentury Parisians took a short train ride to Asnières for boating, including rowing meets; festivals; and the \"unrestrained atmosphere\" of its dances.\n\nVan Gogh and Bernard often painted together \"en plein air\". Vincent wrote to his sister Wil, \"While painting at Asnières, I saw more colors than I have ever seen before.\" Instead of working in the somber colors of his early work, van Gogh embraced the use of color and light of the Impressionists. Influenced by Impressionism and Pointillism, van Gogh modified his traditional style and used vivid color, shorter brushstrokes and perspective to engage the viewer. His views of the banks of the Seine are an important progression for his later landscape paintings. In Asnières, within walking distance of Theo's flat in Montmartre, van Gogh painted parks, cafés, restaurants and the river.\n\n\"The Seine with the Pont de la Grande Jatte\" (F304) is a painting made by van Gogh of a favored area on the Seine near Asnières. It was made during a period where he explored the use of \"dots\" of paint set alongside contrasting colors, influenced by Georges Seurat. In 1885 Seurat made \"A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte\" with a technique of placing colored dots on a work which led a movement called \"Neo-Impressionism\", \"Divisionism\" and \"Pointillism\". Van Gogh was one of the artists later called \"Post-Impressionists\" who was influenced by Seurat's style that rejected realism and idealism to create a new genre based upon abstraction and simplicity. Van Gogh learned from Seurat the beauty in simplicity and a means to convey messages in a more optimistic, light way than his work in the Netherlands. While he could not match Seurat's precision, aspects of Pointillism were integrated into van Gogh's work.\n\nIn \"Bank of the Seine\" (F293) van Gogh uses Pointillism in the small dots for the trees, larger dots in the sky and dashes for water. Impressionism is harnessed to create light and reflection of the water.\n\n\"Bridges across the Seine at Asnières\" (F301) was painted in open air and bright sunlight. The scene depicts railway bridges over the river. Van Gogh uses light and reflection effectively in this painting. The stone piers of the bridge are reflected in the water and white paint is used for highlights. A woman dressed in pink with a red parasol are the focal point of the composition. The painting is part of a group of suburban landscapes along with a painting in Oxford, both of which he had placed in red frames. Van Gogh found this setting through his friend Émile Bernard whom he met when studying with Cormon. Over the two years that Van Gogh was in Paris [1886—1887] Van Gogh made several paintings of bridges crossing the Seine.\n\n\"Walk Along the Banks of the Seine Near Asnières\" also called \"Riverbank at Asnières\" (F299) illustrates van Gogh's technique of using \"short, rapid strokes of color the capture the atmosphere of a particular place\", something he used with other paintings along the Seine.\n\nWatercraft rowing, called \"le rowing\" by the French, was a sport picked up from the English and became popular by the 1880s. Clubs and competitions were established for amateur sportsmen to meet on the Seine. Van Gogh's friend John Peter Russell was an avid participant in local competitions. In the summer of 1887 they often met at Theo's apartment on Rue Lepic where Russell was shown Vincent's paintings of boats, bridges and islands along the Seine, which with Russell's interest in rowing may have been inspiration for his paintings of the Seine at Bougival and Le Pecq.\n"}
{"id": "58049765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58049765", "title": "Splinters (2018 film)", "text": "Splinters (2018 film)\n\nSplinters is a Canadian drama film, directed by Thom Fitzgerald and released in 2018. An adaptation of the theatrical play by Lee-Anne Poole, the film stars Sofia Banzhaf as Belle, a woman whose relationship with her mother has been strained since she came out as lesbian, but who now faces the prospect of coming out all over again as she now identifies as bisexual and is dating a man.\n\nThe film's cast also includes Shelley Thompson, Callum Dunphy and Mary-Colin Chisholm.\n\nThe film premiered at the 2018 Toronto International Film Festival.\n"}
{"id": "55074800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55074800", "title": "Sport in ancient Greek art", "text": "Sport in ancient Greek art\n\nAthletics were an important part of the cultural life of Ancient Greeks. Depictions of boxing and bull-leaping can be found back to the Bronze Age. Buildings were created for the sole use of athletics including stadions, palaestra, and gymnasiums. Starting in the Archaic Period, Panhellenic Games, including the Olympic Games, begin taking place each year. These games gave people from all over Greece the chance to gain fame for their athletic prowess. Athletics in Greece became one of the most commonly depicted scenes of everyday life in their art.\n\nAs the site of the Olympic Games, the architecture of Olympia is heavily influenced by the theme of athletics. The temple of Zeus, for example, is decorated with a frieze containing the 12 labors of Heracles, who is believed to be the founder of the Olympic Games, and a pediment depicting the myth of Pelops, another origin tale of the Olympics. \n\nThe main site of where the Olympic Games took place was the Stadium at Olympia which is located to the east of the sanctuary of Zeus. The physical landmarks of the Stadium are 212.54 meters long and 30–34 meters wide, and it served mainly for running races that determined the fastest person in the world. The track was made of hard-packed clay to serve as traction for the people competing in the running events.\n\nThe site of Nemea showcase both the practical and ceremonial use of athletic architecture in the early Hellenistic monumentalization of Panhellenic sanctuaries. The bath house Nemean Baths contains a western room with basin baths and an eastern plunge bath. The western basin room is common of 4th century baths throughout Greece and was likely place where visiting athletes could wash themselves during their stay. The eastern plunge bath however, is one of only 4 others in Greece, all of which have been found at Panhellenic ritual sites. Though its exact function is unknown, its public nature suggests that it may have had a ritual component in the athletic games or ceremonies. Nemea also housed a stadium, where athletes would participate in games, specifically the stadion (running event).\n\nDuring the Bronze Age, the Minoans practiced several sports, including wrestling, bull jumping, acrobatics, and boxing. This is apparent in multiple pieces of art, ranging from frescoes to pottery. The youth of the boys in the Akrotiri Boxer Fresco hints that athletes began training very early on in life, suggesting that sports were extremely important to Minoan society. It has even been suggested that athletics played a religious role in society due to their widespread practice. Finally, the youth of athletes in many pieces of artwork indicates that athletic competition may have been a rite if passage into adulthood for the Minoans.\n\nOne of the most popular and famous combat sports in Ancient Greece was boxing. Boxing in Ancient Greece was far less regulated than modern boxing, with opponents chosen at random, regardless of weight or age, and matches lasting until one of the competitors admitted defeat or was left unconscious. Fighters were often left disfigured; for example, one boxing injury commonly depicted was the cauliflower ear, which was depicted notably in the Boxer Stele from Kerameikos. Many who participated in these ancient boxing matches were gravely injured or even killed. Despite this, boxing was highly popular among the Ancient Grecian population and therefore was frequently featured on works of art. Another notable depiction of an ancient boxer is Boxer at Rest, also known as Terme Boxer, who has just finished a match. For example, the kothon, black-figure tripod by the Boeotian Dancer's Group features two men engaged in a boxing match on one of its legs.\n\nAthletic events, particularly Panhellenic festivals, brought drew both athletes and spectators. Occurrences of athletic competitions were first recorded by Homer in the Iliad. As a result, competitions had ties with war and military training. Depictions of athletic events in ancient art sometimes show the athletes wearing armor in order to illustrate the connection between athletes and warriors.\n\nDepictions of athletic events were also portrayed on pieces of pottery used in everyday life. Artists like Onesimos and the Foundry Painter depicted events such as pancration scenes and wrestling matches on kylixes which were then used at symposiums or male drinking parties. Both of these painters used the red-figure technique, developed in Athens in 530 B.C., in their work and this technique allowed them to have greater freedom to express movement, emotion, and anatomy.\n\nThe depictions of Athletic events in Art expanded as major athletic events also expanded. In 708 BCE, the pentathlon was added to the Olympic games. Since this event required the skills for five different events (discus, javelin, long jump, running, and wrestling) these athletes were held in high regard among society. It became common to have a kylix or an amphora depict these events, and in turn, it praised the athletes by leaving their legacy in the art.\n\nThe Kleophrades terracotta Panathenaic prize amphora (ca. 500 BCE) provides an example of recognition for success in athletic endeavors. At the Panathenaic Games, victors would be awarded a prize amphora filled with a luxury good like olive oil. The amphora itself would depict Athena Promachos, or Athena as a military leader directing troops into battle, and the athletic event in which the victor competed. Recognition for athletic endeavors and success by depicting the event itself as this Panathenaic prize amphora does highlights just how important athleticism was to the Ancient Greeks. Another example of the many Panathenaic Prize Amphoras is the Euphiletos Painter Panathenaic Amphora (530 BC). Painted in black figure, this Panathenaic amphora depicts a stadion from Panathenaic games. Like other prize amphora, this amphora serves to emphasize athleticism and the victors of these events.\n\nDescriptions of women’s sport during Archaic Period mainly come from literary sources, and there are a few examples of female sporting events. One of the most popular forms of physical activity for ancient Greek women is running. The bronze statuettes of athletic Spartan girl, which depicts Spartan young women involving in racing games, provide material evidence to the accounts of different women’s races in ancient Greece.\n\nThe prominence of athletic subject material in Greek art is no coincidence. Even statuary, called Athletic Dedications, arose as a way to immortalize Greek athletes and athletic games. Athletic events and art were so closely related that a common practice of athletes was to commemorate their victories with artistic dedications. One example of this would be the marble Apobates Base which commemorates victory in a chariot race at the Panathenaic Games. A competitor would erect a dedication to celebrate an athletic victory and place it in a sanctuary or Panhellenic site. These dedications were an artistic celebration of athletic prowess which every Greek could observe.\n\nAs part of the games taking place at Olympia, many individuals competed in the pentathlon, a competition consisting of five events. The Ancient Olympic Pentathlon consisted of the discus throw, long jumps with weights attached to their feet, javelin throw, running, and wrestling. Many victors of the pentathlon would go on to receive prizes such as exclusive items that were made specifically for the victor. For example, the amphorae of the Panathenaic Games, often filled with expensive olive oil, featured Athena standing with a sword and shield to represent their victory in the games. Because the Olympics were dedicated to Zeus, often these prizes would become votive dedications to him.\n\nThe Bronze Diskos Thrower (\"Discobolus\") was a rare commodity that came from a time in which not many pieces survived: the end of the Persian Wars. The piece itself still exhibits many traits of archaic art, despite coming from the early Classical period (480 - 460 BCE). The athlete in the statue was a participant of diskos throwing, a very popular event in Ancient Greece and even modern day Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "28868783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28868783", "title": "Tapestry of Creation", "text": "Tapestry of Creation\n\nThe Tapestry of Creation or Girona Tapestry is a Romanesque panel of needlework from the 11th century, housed in the Museum of the Cathedral of Girona, Catalonia, Spain. Measuring 3.65 x 4.70 m, it originally may have served as baldachin for the Altar of the Holy Cross in the church's entrance. Some believe that it was used as a curtain or even a carpet. It depicts a series of theological scenes related with the Christian creation myths.\n\nThe \"tapestry\" is actually a panel of couched needlework laid down on the surface of the ground fabric, a terracotta wool intertwined with different colors (red, green, yellow, dark and light blue, gray) wool and white linen threads. The border is formed by a frame, rather deteriorated, containing small square pictures which, according to some scholars, could have been added later to the central sector, due to their different, Byzantine-like style and themes.\n\nThe tapestry, of which only the upper part remains, is divided into three cycles:\n\nThe Christ Pantocrator, depicted as a beardless young man, occupies a circle in the center of the tapestry. He is surrounded by a circle whose sectors, aside from the upper one with a dove, symbol of God, show the seven days of the creation, until the creation of Adam and Eve. The two circles include quotes from the Genesis.\n\nThe remaining space in the rectangle including the central disk, houses at the corner four representation of Winds, depicted by four young winged men in Roman-like dresses, driving vessels and blowing air into horns. The central upper square is an old man representing the Year, with the Wheel of Time, while at the upper corners are the personifications of the Rivers of Paradise. The other six upper squares depict the Four Seasons, as well as Samson and Abel (or Cain).\n\nThe two lower corners show the personifications of the Sun (left, symbolizing Sunday) and the Moon (right, much deteriorated, symbolizing Monday), while the side outer squares represent the months (only eight of which survive). At the bottom are incomplete scenes of the discovery of Holy Cross.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24569969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24569969", "title": "Team 4", "text": "Team 4\n\nTeam 4 was a British architectural firm, established in 1963 by architecture graduates Su Brumwell, Wendy Cheesman, Norman Foster and Richard Rogers. Friction emerged within the firm, and by June 1967, Foster and Rogers, decided to dissolve the firm. \n\nThe practice originally included Wendy Cheesman's sister Georgie Wolton (née Cheesman) who, as the only qualified architect of the group, allowed the practice to function. Georgie Cheeseman left after only a few months, leaving the remaining members to try to pass their professional exams while continuing to practice.\n\nRogers, Foster and Brumwell had first met while studying at Yale University. Rogers and Brumwell later married, as did Foster and Cheesman.\n\nOne of the first projects for Team 4 was a commission from Su Brumwell’s parents, Marcus and Irene Brumwell, to build a new house in Feock, Cornwall, called Creek Vean. They sold a Piet Mondrian painting bought from the artist in the 1930s, to fund the new house. Marcus Brumwell was the founder of the Design Research Unit. Creek Vean took 3 years to construct and was completed in 1966. It became the first ever house to win a R.I.B.A. Award.\nCreek Vean is a listed building, having been listed Grade II in 1998, and subsequently upgraded to Grade II*. It is listed as \"Creekvean and Attached Entrance Bridge and Walls to Road, Feock\".\nTeam 4 designed Skybreak House in Radlett, Hertfordshire. It was built between 1965 and 1966, and the interior of the house was used in the film A Clockwork Orange. The final project for Team 4 was the Reliance Controls building in Swindon, which was completed in 1967, just before Team 4 dissolved. It was noteworthy as it removed the separation of management and workforce by creating a common entrance and canteen. \n\nRogers claims a planning scheme of 120 houses for Water Homes, at Coulsdon, Surrey, to be \"probably the most important project of our Team 4 period\".\n\nFoster would later establish Foster Associates and Rogers established the Richard Rogers Partnership.\n"}
{"id": "751718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=751718", "title": "Temple Bar, Dublin", "text": "Temple Bar, Dublin\n\nTemple Bar () is an area on the south bank of the River Liffey in central Dublin, Ireland. The area is bounded by the Liffey to the north, Dame Street to the south, Westmoreland Street to the east and Fishamble Street to the west. It is promoted as Dublin's 'cultural quarter' and, as a centre of Dublin's city centre's nightlife, is a tourist destination.\n\nTemple Bar is in the postcode Dublin 2 (D2).\n\nIn medieval (Anglo-Norman) times, the name of the district was St. Andrews Parish. It was a suburb, located outside the city walls. But the area fell into disuse beginning in the 14th century because it was exposed to attacks by the native Irish.\n\nThe land was redeveloped again in the 17th century, to create gardens for the houses of wealthy English families. At that time the shoreline of the River Liffey ran further inland of where it lies today, along the line formed by Essex Street, Temple Bar and Fleet Street. Marshy land to the river side of this line was progressively walled in and reclaimed, allowing houses to be built upon what had been the shoreline; but unusually, the reclaimed land was not quayed, so that the back yards of the houses ran down to the water's edge. (Not until 1812 were these back yards replaced by Wellington Quay.) The fronts of the houses then constituted a new street. The first mention of Temple Bar as the name of this street is in Bernard de Gomme's Map of Dublin from 1673, which shows the reclaimed land and new buildings. Other street names given nearby are Dammas Street (now Dame Street) and Dirty Lane (now Temple Lane South).\nIt is generally thought that the street known as Temple Bar got its name from the Temple family, whose progenitor Sir William Temple built a house and gardens there in the early 1600s. Temple had moved to Ireland in 1599 with the expeditionary force of the Earl of Essex, for whom he served as secretary. (He had previously been secretary of Sir Philip Sydney until the latter was killed in battle.) After Essex was beheaded for treason in 1601, Temple \"retired into private life\", but he was then solicited to become provost of Trinity College, serving from 1609 until his death in 1627 at age 72. William Temple's son John became the \"Master of the Rolls in Ireland\" and was the author of a famous pamphlet excoriating the native Irish population for an uprising in 1641. John's son William Temple became a famous English statesman.\n\nDespite this grand lineage, however, the name of Temple Bar street seems to have been more directly borrowed from the storied Temple Bar district in London, where the main toll-gate into London was located dating back to medieval times. \n\nLondon's Temple Bar is adjoined by Essex Street to the west and Fleet Street to the east, and streets of the same names occupy similar positions in relation to Dublin's Temple Bar. It seems almost certain therefore that Dublin's Temple Bar was named firstly in imitation of the historic Temple precinct in London. However, a secondary and equally plausible reason for using the name Temple Bar in Dublin would be a reference to one of the area's most prominent families, in a sort of pun or play on words. Or as it has been put more succinctly, Temple Bar 'does honour to London and the landlord in nicely-gauged proportions'.\n\nFishamble Street near Temple Bar was the location of the first performance of Handel's \"Messiah\" on 13 April 1742. An annual performance of the \"Messiah\" is held on the same date at the same location. A republican revolutionary group, the Society of the United Irishmen, was formed at a meeting in a tavern in Eustace Street in 1791.\n\nIn the 18th century Temple Bar was the centre of prostitution in Dublin. During the 19th century, the area slowly declined in popularity, and in the 20th century, it suffered from urban decay, with many derelict buildings.\n\nIn the 1980s, the state-owned transport company Córas Iompair Éireann (C.I.É.) proposed to buy up and demolish property in the area and build a bus terminus in its place. While that was in the planning stages, the purchased buildings were let out at low rents, which attracted small shops, artists and galleries to the area. Protests by An Taisce, residents and traders led to the cancellation of the bus station project, and then Taoiseach Charles Haughey was responsible for securing funding, and, in 1991, the government set up a not-for-profit company called \"Temple Bar Properties\" to oversee the regeneration of the area as Dublin's cultural quarter.\n\nIn 1999, \"stag parties\" and \"hen nights\" were supposedly banned (or discouraged) from Temple Bar, mainly due to drunken loutish behaviour, although this seems to have lapsed. However, noise and anti-social behaviour remain a problem at night.\n\nThe area is the location of a number of cultural institutions, including the Irish Photography Centre (incorporating the Dublin Institute of Photography, the National Photographic Archive and the Gallery of Photography), the Ark Children's Cultural Centre, the Irish Film Institute, incorporating the Irish Film Archive, the Button Factory, the Arthouse Multimedia Centre, Temple Bar Gallery and Studios, the Project Arts Centre, the Gaiety School of Acting, IBAT College Dublin, the New Theatre, as well as the Irish Stock Exchange.\n\nAfter dark, the area is a centre for nightlife, with various tourist-focused nightclubs, restaurants and bars. Pubs in the area include The Temple Bar Pub, The Porterhouse, the Oliver St. John Gogarty, the Turk's Head, Czech Inn, the Quays Bar, the Foggy Dew, The Auld Dubliner and Bad Bobs.\n\nThe area has two renovated squares – \"Meetinghouse Square\" and the central \"Temple Bar Square\". The Temple Bar Book Market is held on Saturdays and Sundays in Temple Bar Square. Meetinghouse Square, which takes its name from the nearby Quaker Meeting House, is used for outdoor film-screenings in the summer months. Since summer 2004, Meetinghouse Square is also home to the 'Speaker's Square' project (an area of public speaking) and to the 'Temple Bar Food Market' on Saturdays.\n\nThe 'Cow's Lane Market' is a fashion and design market which takes place on Cow's Lane on Saturdays.\n\nPart of the 13th century is visible within an apartment/restaurant complex called 'The Friary'.\n\nA dance sequence from Bollywood film \"Ek Tha Tiger\" was filmed in the area. Irish singer/songwriter Billy Treacy wrote a song about the area, and country singer Nathan Carter as well as Irish rock band Kodaline have released songs called Temple Bar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36676493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36676493", "title": "Textbookrental.ca", "text": "Textbookrental.ca\n\nTextbookrental.ca is a textbook rental service company, based in Canada. Its services include textbook rentals, used textbook sales, a buyback program, and instore kiosks in university bookstores.\n\nTextbookrental.ca was established in 2010 by entrepreneurs Gershon Hurwitz and Mike Stock, in response to student concerns about the rising cost of textbooks. By 2011, the online store was selling textbooks at a discount and renting texts, allowing searching by textbook ISBN, author, and title, selecting a 2, 3, or 6 month (semester) rental period, and shipping options. Once the semester is over, books are returned with a free return shipping label, or in person at 11 depots.\n\nThe company also set up a service to buy back used books, either by paying cash for books dropped off at a depot location near campus, by providing a free shipping label from the website to ship the books to the company.\n\nIn 2013, Textbookrental.ca raised $415,000 of seed funding, mainly from Seek Capital, to expand its business.\nIn 2014 it continues to be privately owned and is managed by the founders together with an executive team.\n\nTextbookrental.ca has teamed up with Conestoga college Ontario to provide students with an online rental option. Students can rent their textbooks online 24 hours a day. Later the company made arrangements with other colleges, including Lakehead and Dalhousie. In British Columbia, the website collaborates with campusconnected.ca, a student classified ad website. Textbookrental.ca has partnered with Indigo to provide online rentals and second hand books.\n\n"}
{"id": "12835568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12835568", "title": "Theatre practitioner", "text": "Theatre practitioner\n\nTheatre practitioner is a modern term to describe someone who both creates theatrical performances and who produces a theoretical discourse that informs his or her practical work. A theatre practitioner may be a director, a dramatist, an actor, or—characteristically—often a combination of these traditionally-separate roles. \"Theatre practice\" describes the collective work that various theatre practitioners do.\n\nThe term is not ordinarily applied to theatre-makers prior to the rise of modernism in the theatre, instead describing theatre praxis from Stanislavski's development of his 'system', through Meyerhold's biomechanics, Antonin Artaud's Theatre of cruelty, Bertolt Brecht's epic and Jerzy Grotowski's poor theatre, down to the present day, with contemporary theatre practitioners including Augusto Boal with his Theatre of the Oppressed, Dario Fo's popular theatre, Eugenio Barba's theatre anthropology and Anne Bogart's viewpoints.\n\n"}
{"id": "9947215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9947215", "title": "Vicksburg Theatre Guild", "text": "Vicksburg Theatre Guild\n\nThe Vicksburg Theatre Guild is a community theater troupe in Vicksburg, Mississippi, USA. Chartered in 1936, it is the oldest community theater in the state. It is also the current home of the Guinness Book of World Records' longest running show, \"Gold in the Hills\".\n\nEach year, the Main Stage Productions offers four or five plays or musicals. \n\n\"Gold in the Hills\" takes place in April and July. \n\nFairy Tale Theatre is a summer children’s education production with performances in late June.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4967845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4967845", "title": "Video feedback", "text": "Video feedback\n\nVideo feedback is the process that starts and continues when a video camera is pointed at its own playback video monitor. The loop delay from camera to display back to camera is at least one video frame time, due to the input and output scanning processes; it can be more if there is more processing in the loop.\n\nFirst discovered shortly after Charlie Ginsburg invented the first video recorder for Ampex in 1956, video feedback was considered a nuisance and unwanted noise. Technicians and studio camera people were chastised for allowing a video camera to see its own monitor as the overload of self-amplified video signal wreaked havoc with the 1950s video pickup, often ruining the pickup. It could also cause screen burn-in on a playback TV and/or monitors of the time as well, by generating static brightly illuminated display patterns.\n\nIn the 1960s early examples of video feedback art become introduced into the psychedelic art scene in New York City. Nam June Paik is often cited as the first video artist, although this is disputed; he had clips of video feedback on display in New York City at the Greenwich Cafe in the mid 1960s. \n\nEarly video feedback works were created by media artist/experimenters on the East and West Coasts in the late 1960s and early 70's. Video feedback artists Steina and Woody Vasulka, with Richard Lowenberg and others, formed The Kitchen, which was located in the kitchen of a broken-down hotel in lower Manhattan; while Skip Sweeney and others founded Video Free America in San Francisco, to nurture their video art and feedback experiments.\n\nDavid Sohn mentions video feedback in his 1970 book \"Film, the Creative Eye\". This book was part of the base curriculum for Richard Lederer of St. Paul's School in Concord, New Hampshire, when he introduced making videofeedback as part of an English curriculum in his 1970s course Creative Eye in Film. Several students in this class participated regularly in the making and recording of videofeedback. Sony had released the VuMax series of recording video cameras and manually \"hand-looped\" video tape decks by this time which did two things: it increased the resolution of the video image, which made the picture more attractive, and it brought video tape recording technology within the general public's grasp for the first time and allowed for such video experimentation to take place by the general public.\n\nDuring the 1980s and into the 1990s video technology became enhanced and evolved into high quality, high definition video recording. Michael C. Andersen generated the first known mathematical formula of the videofeedback process, and he has also generated a Mendeleev's square to show the gradual progressive formulaic change of the video image as certain parameters are adjusted.\n\nIn the 1990s the rave scene and a social return to art of a more psychedelic nature brought back displays of video feedback on large disco dance floor video screens around the world. There are filters for Adobe Photoshop and non linear video editors that often have video feedback as the filter description, or as a setting on a filter. These filter types either mimic or directly utilize video feedback for its result effect and can be recognized by its vortex, phantasmagoric manipulation of the original recorded image.\n\nMany artists have used optical feedback. An example is Queen's music video for \"Bohemian Rhapsody\" (1975). The effect (in this simple case) can be compared to looking at oneself between two mirrors.\n\nOther videos that use variations of video feedback include:\n\nThe opening titles sequence for the British science fiction series \"Doctor Who\" employed this technique from 1963 to 1973 (initially in black and white, redone in 1967 to showcase the show's new 625-line broadcast resolution and feature the Doctor's face (Patrick Troughton at that time), then redone again, in colour this time, in 1970. The next title sequence for the show, which debuted in 1973, abandoned this technique in favour of slit-scan photography.\n\nThe optical feedback discussed so far—video feedback, created by a camera pointing at its own monitor—is actually just one particular example of optical feedback. Perhaps the most obvious example of optical feedback in science is the optical cavity found in almost every laser, which typically consists of two mirrors between which light is amplified. In the late 1990s it was found that so-called unstable-cavity lasers produce light beams whose cross-section present a fractal pattern.\n\nOptical feedback in science is often closely related to video feedback, so an understanding of video feedback can be useful for other applications of optical feedback. Video feedback has been used to explain the essence of fractal structure of unstable-cavity laser beams. The page discovery of fractal lasers gives an account of laser fractals, the developments of this work, links to further reading, and relates the laser context with video feedback systems. \n\nVideo feedback is also useful as an experimental-mathematics tool. Examples of its use include the creation of Fractal patterns using multiple monitors or multiple images created using mirrors.\n\nThe page video feedback in science provides an overview.\n\nSoftology's Video Feedback page provides links and information about real and simulated video feedback.\n\nOptical feedback is also found in the image intensifier tube and its variants. Here the feedback is usually an undesirable phenomenon, where the light generated by the phosphor screen \"feeds back\" to the photocathode, causing the tube to oscillate, and ruining the image. This is typically suppressed by an aluminum reflective screen deposited on the back of the phosphor screen, or by incorporating a microchannel plate detector.\n\nOptical feedback has been used experimentally in these tubes to amplify an image, in the manner of the cavity laser, but this technique has had limited use.\n\nOptical feedback has also been experimented with as an electron source, since a photocathode-phosphor cell will 'latch' when triggered, providing a steady stream of electrons. See US Patent 4,531,122 for a typical application.\n\nDouglas Hofstadter discusses video feedback in his book \"I Am a Strange Loop\" about the human mind and consciousness. He devotes a chapter to describing his experiments with video feedback.\n\nAt some point during the session, I accidentally stuck my hand momentarily in front of the camera's lens. Of course the screen went all dark, but when I removed my hand, the previous pattern did not just pop right back onto the screen, as expected. Instead I saw a different pattern on the screen, but this pattern, unlike anything I'd seen before, was not stationary.\n"}
{"id": "1199859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1199859", "title": "Yiddish theatre", "text": "Yiddish theatre\n\nYiddish theatre consists of plays written and performed primarily by Jews in Yiddish, the language of the Central European Ashkenazi Jewish community. The range of Yiddish theatre is broad: operetta, musical comedy, and satiric or nostalgic revues; melodrama; naturalist drama; expressionist and modernist plays. At its height, its geographical scope was comparably broad: from the late 19th century until just before World War II, professional Yiddish theatre could be found throughout the heavily Jewish areas of Eastern and East Central Europe, but also in Berlin, London, Paris, Buenos Aires and New York City.\n\nYiddish theatre's roots include the often satiric plays traditionally performed during religious holiday of Purim (known as Purim spiels); other masquerades such as the Dance of Death; the singing of cantors in the synagogues; Jewish secular song and dramatic improvisation; exposure to the theatre traditions of various European countries, and the Jewish literary culture that had grown in the wake of the Jewish enlightenment (Haskalah).\n\nIsrail Bercovici wrote that it is through Yiddish theatre that \"Jewish culture entered in dialogue with the outside world,\" both by putting itself on display and by importing theatrical pieces from other cultures.\n\nThemes such as immigration, assimilation and poverty can be found in many Yiddish theatre productions.\n\nNoah Prilutski (1882–1941) noted that Yiddish theatre did not arise simultaneously with theatre in other European \"national\" languages; he conjectured that this was at least in part because the Jewish sense of nationality favored Hebrew over Yiddish as a \"national\" language, but few Jews of the period were actually comfortable using Hebrew outside of a religious/liturgical context. \nNonetheless, various types of performances, including those of cantors, preachers, jesters, and instrumental musicians, were a part of Eastern European Jewish life long before the formal advent of Yiddish theatre.\n\nBercovici suggests that, as with ancient Greek drama, elements of dramatic performance arose in Jewish life as an artistic refinement of religious practice; he highlights references in the Bible to dance, music, or song, especially in the Psalms (Hebrew \"tehillim\", or songs of praise), where some of the headings refer to musical instruments, or to singing in dialogue, either between parts of the choir, or between the choir and the leader of the ritual (Hebrew \"menatseach\"). Also, traditional dances were associated with certain holidays, such as Sukkot.\n\nPurim plays – the skits performed by amateur companies around the time of the Purim holiday – were a significant early form of theatrical expression. Often satiric and topical, Purim plays were traditionally performed in the courtyard of the synagogue, because they were considered too profane to be performed inside the building. These made heavy use of masks and other theatrical devices; the masquerade (and the singing and dancing) generally extended to the whole congregation, not just a small set of players. While many Purim plays told the story in the Book of Esther commemorated by the Purim holiday, others used other stories from Jewish scripture, such as the story of Joseph sold by his brothers or the sacrifice of Isaac. Over time, these well-known stories became less a subject matter than a pretext for topical and satiric theatre. Mordechai became a standard role for a clown.\n\nPurim plays were published as early as the early 18th century. At least eight Purim plays were published between 1708 and 1720; most of these do not survive (at least some were burned in \"autos da fe\"), but one survives in the \"Jüdische Merkwürdigkeiten\" (1714), a collection by Johann Jakob Schudt (1664–1722).\n\nAnother similar current in Jewish culture was a tradition of masked dancers performing after weddings. The most elaborate form of this was the Dance of Death, a pageant depicting all layers of a society, which had originated among Sephardic Jews in Spain in the 14th century and had spread through Europe among both Jews and Gentiles. 16th-century Italian Jews had taken music and dance to an even more refined level of art: at that time in Italy there were Jewish virtuosi and dancing masters in Mantua, Ferrara, and Rome, and the first known troupes of Jewish performers in Europe. Less refined versions of the same also occurred in 18th-century Germany.\n\nAdditionally, there was a rich tradition of dialogues in the Jewish poetry known as \"Tahkemoni\", dating back at least to Yehuda al-Harizi in 12th-century Spain. Al-Harizi's work contained dialogues between believer and heretic, man and wife, day and night, land and ocean, wisdom and foolishness, avarice and generosity. Such dialogues figured prominently in early Yiddish theatre.\n\nThe origin of theatre in Christian societies in Europe is often traced to Passion Plays and other religious pageants, similar in some ways to the Purim plays. In the Middle Ages, few Jews would have seen these: they were often performed in the courtyards of Christian churches (few of which were near the Jewish ghettos), on Christian holidays, and they often had significant antisemitic elements in their plots and dialogue. However, in later times, the Romanian Orthodox Christmas tradition of \"Irozii\" — minstrel shows centered around the figure of Herod the Great (Rom: \"Irod\"), which were the origin of Romanian-language theatre — definitely influenced Purim plays and \"vice versa\".\n\nJews had far more exposure to secular European theatre once that developed. Meistersinger Hans Sachs' many plays on Old Testament topics were widely admired by the Jews of the German ghettos, and from the 16th century through the 18th, the biblical story of Esther was the most popular theatrical theme in Christian Europe, often under the Latin name \"Acta Ahasuerus\".\n\nProfessional Yiddish theatre is generally dated from 1876, although there is scattered evidence of earlier efforts. \n\nBesides some 19 amateur Yiddish-language theatrical troupes in and around Warsaw in the 1830s, there was also, according to one contemporary source, a professional company that in 1838 performed before a receptive audience of both Jews and Gentiles a five-act drama \"Moses\", by a certain A. Schertspierer of Vienna, with \"well-drawn characters and good dramatic situations and language.\" The same source relates that this theatre had among its patrons a number of Russian military officers, including one general who was considered a \"protector\" of it – a circumstance that suggests the difficulties it faced.\n\nAround the same time, there are indications of a traveling Yiddish-language theatre troupe in Galicia, organized along the lines of an English or Italian theatre troupe.\n\nIn 1854, two rabbinical students from Zhytomyr put on a play in Berdichev. Shortly afterward, the Ukrainian Jew Abraham Goldfaden, generally considered the founder of the first professional Yiddish theatre troupe, attended that same rabbinical school, and while there is known to have played (in 1862) a woman's role in a play, \"Serkele\", by Solomon Ettinger. Shortly after that (1869, according to one source), Goldfaden wrote a dialogue \"Tsvey Shkheynes\" (\"Two Neighbors\"), apparently intended for the stage, and published with moderate success. A short-lived Yiddish theater in Odessa in 1864 performed dramas \"Esther\" and \"Athalia\". Abraham Baer Gottlober's \"Decktuch\", like Ettinger's \"Serkele\", was written between 1830 and 1840, but published much later; Israel Aksenfeld (died \"c.\" 1868) wrote several dramas in Yiddish, which were probably not staged in his lifetime. Another early Yiddish dramatist was Joel Baer Falkovich (\"Reb Chaimele der Koẓin\", Odessa, 1866; \"Rochel die Singerin\", Zhytomyr, 1868). Solomon Jacob Abramowitsch's \"Die Takse\" (1869) has the form of a drama, but, like Eliakim Zunser's later \"Mekirat Yosef\" (Vilnius, 1893), it was not intended for the stage.\n\nHersh Leib Sigheter (1829–1930) wrote satirical Purim plays on an annual basis and hired boys to play in them. Although often objected to by rabbis, these plays were popular, and were performed not only on Purim but for as much as a week afterwards in various locations.\n\nAnother current that led equally to professional Yiddish theatre was a tradition resembling that of the troubadours or Minnesänger, apparently growing out of the music associated with Jewish weddings, and often involving singers who also functioned as cantors in synagogues. The first records of the early \"Brodersänger\" or Broder singers are the remarks of Jews passing through Brody, which was on a major route of travel, generally disapproving of the singing of songs when no particular occasion called for music. The most famous of the singers from Brody was the itinerant Berl Margulis (1815–1868), known as Berl Broder, \"Berl from Brody\"; 24 of his 30 surviving songs are in the form of dialogues. Another influential performer in this style was Benjamin Wolf Ehrenkrantz (1826–1883), known as Velvel Zbarjer. Bercovici describes his work as \"mini-melodramas in song\".\n\nSuch performers, who performed at weddings, in the salons of the wealthy, in the summer gardens, and in other secular gathering places of the Eastern European Jews, were not mere singers. They often used costumes and often improvised spoken material between songs, especially when working in groups. Israel Grodner, later Goldfaden's first actor, participated in an outdoor concert in Odessa in 1873 with dialogues between songs comparable to much of what was in Goldfaden's earliest plays. Goldfaden himself was already a noted poet, and many of his poems had been set to music and had become popular songs, some of which were used in that 1873 performance.\n\nFinally, around this time Yiddish was establishing itself as a literary language, and some Jews with secular interests were familiar with the dominant theatrical traditions of their respective countries; given this burgeoning literary intellectual culture, within a year or two of Goldfaden's founding the first professional Yiddish theatre troupe, there were multiple troupes, multiple playwrights, and more than a few serious Yiddish theatre critics and theoreticians.\n\nAbraham Goldfaden is generally considered the founder of the first professional Yiddish theatre troupe, which he founded in Iaşi, Romania in 1876, and later moved to Bucharest. His own career also took him to Imperial Russia, Lvov, and New York City. Within two years of Goldfaden's founding of his troupe, there were several rival troupes in Bucharest, mostly founded by former members of Goldfaden's troupe. Most of these troupes followed Goldfaden's original formula of musical vaudeville and light comedy, while Goldfaden himself turned more toward relatively serious operettas about biblical and historical subjects, especially after his own company left Bucharest for an extended tour of the cities of Imperial Russia.\n\nGoldfaden's troupe began as all-male; while they soon acquired actresses, as well, it remained relatively common in Yiddish theatre for female roles, especially comic roles, to be played by men. (Women also sometimes played men's roles: Molly Picon was a famous Shmendrick.)\nMany early Yiddish theatre pieces were constructed around a very standard set of roles: \"a prima donna, a soubrette, a comic, a lover, a villain, a villainess (or \"intriguer\"), an older man and woman for character roles, and one or two more for spares as the plot might require,\" and a musical component that might range from a single fiddler to an orchestra. This was very convenient for a repertory company, especially a traveling one. Both at the start and well into the great years of Yiddish theatre, the troupes were often in one or another degree family affairs, with a husband, wife, and often their offspring playing in the same troupe.\n\nAt its high end, early Yiddish theatre was noted for its pageantry. A pageant about the coronation of Solomon, presented on the occasion of the 1881 coronation of Carol I of Romania was described by Ion Ghica as \"among the most imposing things that paraded the coronation\"; he acquired the costumes for the Romanian National Theatre, which he headed at the time.\n\nBoth the nature and aspirations of early professional Yiddish theatre are reflected in Moses Schwarzfeld's 1877 remarks calling for serious and \"educational\" Jewish theatre: \"If we write only comedies or if we only imitate German, Romanian and French pieces translated into Yiddish, all we will have is a secondary Jewish stage ... just making people laugh and cry is an \"evil\" for us Jews in Romania.\" Goldfaden himself agreed with such sentiments; later recalling his views at the time, he wrote: \"If I have arrived at having a stage, I want it to be a school for you ... Laugh heartily if I amuse you with my jokes, while I, watching you, feel my heart crying. Then, brothers, I'll give you a drama, a tragedy drawn from life, and you shall also cry — while my heart shall be glad.\"\n\nB. Nathansohn, correspondent of the Warsaw-based Jewish newspaper \"Hamelitz\" visited Romania in the summer of 1878 and wrote, \"When a Jew enters a Yiddish theatre in Bucharest he is thunderstruck hearing the Yiddish language in all its splendor and radiance,\" and called upon Goldfaden to create similar theatres in Warsaw, Lublin, Vilna, Berdichev, and Balta.\n\nWhile Yiddish theatre was an immediate hit with the broad masses of Jews, was generally liked and admired by Jewish intellectuals and many Gentile intellectuals, a small but socially powerful portion of the Jewish community, centered among Orthodox and Hasidic Jews remained opposed to it. Besides complaints about the mingling of men and women in public and about the use of music and dance outside of sacred contexts, the two main criticisms from this quarter were (1) that the Yiddish \"jargon\" was being promoted to the detriment of \"proper\" Hebrew and (2) that satire against Hasidim and others would not necessarily be understood as satire and would make Jews look ridiculuous. Bercovici quotes an anonymous 1885 article as responding to these criticisms by saying (1) that all Jews speak \"some\" modern language and why should Yiddish be any more detrimental to Hebrew than Romanian, Russian, or German, and (2) that the Gentiles who would come to Yiddish theatre would not be the antisemites, they would be those who already knew and liked Jews, and that they would recognize satire for what it was, adding that these criticisms were \"nothing\" when weighed against the education that Yiddish theatre was bringing to the lower classes.\n\nWriting of Sigmund Mogulesko's troupe in Romania in 1884, and probably referring to the plays of Moses Horowitz and Joseph Lateiner, Moses Gaster wrote that Yiddish theatre \"represents scenes from our history known by only a tiny minority, refreshing, therefore, secular memory\" and \"shows us our defects, which we have like all men, but not with a tendency to strike at our own immorality with a tendency towards ill will, but only with an ironic spirit that does not wound us, as we are wounded by representations on other stages, where the Jew plays a degrading role.\"\n\nGoldfaden's plays ultimately formed a canon of Yiddish theater, and were performed continuously for over fifty years; in the theater world they were reverently regarded as a kind of \"Torah from Sinai\", and the characters of the plays permeated Jewish cultural life over several generations.\n\nIf Yiddish theatre was born in Romania, its youth occurred in Imperial Russia, largely in what is now Ukraine. Israel Rosenberg's troupe (which later had a series of managers, including Goldfaden's brother Tulya, and which at one point split in two, with one half led by actor Jacob Adler) gave Russia's first professional Yiddish theatre performance in Odessa in 1878. Goldfaden himself soon came to Odessa, pushing Rosenberg's troupe into the provinces, and Osip Mikhailovich Lerner and N.M. Sheikevitch also founded a Yiddish theatre at Odessa, which for several years became the capital of Yiddish theatre.\n\nRussia offered a more sophisticated audience than rural Romania: many Russian Jews were regular attendees of Russian-language theatre, and Odessa was a first-rate theatre city. In this context, serious melodramatic operettas, and even straight plays, took their place in the repertoire among the lighter vaudevilles and comedies that had thus far predominated. All three major troupes in Odessa did their own productions of Karl Gutzkow's play \"Uriel Acosta\" (with Goldfaden's production being an operetta).\n\nHowever, even this increased sophistication could not compare to later, more ambitious efforts of the Yiddish theater. Looking back on this period, although acknowledging certain of Goldfaden's plays from this era as \"masterpieces\", Jacob Adler saw this as a period of relative mediocrity compared to what came later. \"For three years I... wandered in the cave of the Witch and the motley of Shmendrick and what did I really know of my trade?\" he describes himself as thinking in 1883. \"If someday I return to Yiddish theater let me at least not be so ignorant.\" Much of the theater performed during this period was later referred to as \"shund,\" or trash, though critics such as Itsik Manger felt it possessed a naive energy and was unfairly maligned.\n\nWhat seemed, for a time, a boundless future in Russia was cut short by the anti-Jewish reaction following the assassination of Tsar Alexander II; Yiddish theatre was banned, under an order effective September 14, 1883. This ban caused an exodus of Yiddish actors and playwrights to other countries – Poland, in particular – where they had the freedom to perform.\n\nThe Moscow Yiddish Theater, or Jewish Kamerny Theatre in Moscow, or new Yiddish Chamber Theater, directed by Aleksey Granovsky, and with contributors including Marc Chagall, was founded in Petrograd in June 1919 as an experimental workshop then became the Moscow State Jewish Theatre.\n\nOf the next era of Yiddish theatre, Adler wrote, \"...if Yiddish theater was destined to go through its infancy in Russia, and in America grew to manhood and success, then London was its school.\" In London in the 1880s, playing in small theatre clubs \"on a stage the size of a cadaver\", not daring to play on a Friday night or to light a fire on stage on a Saturday afternoon (both because of the Jewish Sabbath), forced to use a cardboard ram's horn when playing \"Uriel Acosta\" so as not to blaspheme, Yiddish theatre nonetheless took on much of what was best in European theatrical tradition.\n\nIn this period, the plays of Schiller first entered the repertoire of Yiddish theatre, beginning with \"The Robbers\", the start of a vogue that would last a quarter of a century. Adler records that, like Shakespeare, Schiller was \"revered\" by the broad Jewish public, not just by intellectuals, admired for his \"almost socialist view of society\", although his plays were often radically adapted for the Yiddish stage, shortening them and dropping Christian, antisemitic, and classical mythological references There were several smaller Jewish theatre groups in Manchester and Glasgow.\n\nPoland was an important center of Yiddish theatrical activity, with more than 400 Yiddish theatrical companies performing in the country during the interwar period. One of the most important companies, the avant-garde Vilna Troupe (Vilner trupe), formed in Vilna, as its name suggests, but moved to Warsaw in 1917. The Vilna Troupe employed some of the most accomplished actors on the Yiddish stage, including Avrom Morevski, who played the Miropolyer tsaddik in the first performance of The Dybbuk, and Joseph Buloff, who was the lead actor of the Vilna Troupe and went on to further accomplishments with Maurice Schwartz’s Yiddish Art Theater in New York. It was in Warsaw that the Vilna Troupe staged the first performance of The Dybbuk in 1920, a play that made a profound and lasting impression on Yiddish theater and world culture. The Vilna Troupe inspired the creation of more avant-garde and ambitious Yiddish theatrical companies, including the Warsaw Yiddish Art Theater, founded by Zygmunt Turkow and Ida Kaminska in 1924, the Warsaw New Yiddish Theater, founded by Jonas Turkow in 1929, and the Young Theater, founded by Michal Weichert in 1932.\n\nIn addition to the serious artistic efforts of the art theaters, cabaret flourished in Poland during the interwar period, combining musical performances with standup comedy. The most celebrated practitioners of this kind of performance were Shimen Dzigan and Yisroel Shumacher, who began their lifelong Yiddish comedy career at the theater Ararat in Łódź in 1927. Puppet and marionette theater also attained great artistic significance, often staging satirical shows on contemporary social issues.\n\nYiddish theater in Poland reflected the political preoccupations of its time. They struggled financially, like all Jewish cultural institutions during that period, even while flourishing for a time during a more liberal political atmosphere. Actors and directors, just like others during that period, were highly aware of labor relations, and tried to create egalitarian working relationships. Organizations such as the Yiddish Actors’ Union, based in Warsaw, played a crucial role in providing a forum for theater professionals to discuss these issues and try new solutions, such as collectively run theaters. Theatrical performances themselves also addressed social issues. Michal Weichert’s Yung-teater was particularly known for political engagement, staging an attention-getting avant-garde performance of the play Boston, by Bernhard Blum, about the trial of Sacco and Vanzetti, in 1933.\n\nThe 1883 Russian ban on Yiddish theatre (lifted in 1904) effectively pushed it to Western Europe and then to America. Over the next few decades, successive waves of Yiddish performers arrived in New York (and, to a lesser extent, in Berlin, London, Vienna, and Paris), some simply as artists seeking an audience, but many as a result of persecutions, pogroms and economic crises in Eastern Europe. Professional Yiddish theatre in London began in 1884, and flourished until the mid-1930s. By 1896, Kalman Juvilier's troupe was the only one that remained in Romania, where Yiddish theatre had started, although Mogulesko sparked a revival there in 1906. There was also some activity in Warsaw and Lvov, which were under Austrian rather than Russian rule.\n\nIn this era, Yiddish theatre existed almost entirely on stage, rather than in texts. The \"Jewish Encyclopedia\" of 1901–1906 reported, \"There are probably less than fifty printed Yiddish dramas, and the entire number of written dramas of which there is any record hardly exceeds five hundred. Of these at least nine-tenths are translations or adaptations.\"\n\nBeginning in 1882 and throughout the 1880s and 1890s, amateur theatrical companies presented Yiddish productions in New York City, leading to regular weekend performances at theatres such as the Bowery Garden, the National and the Thalia, with unknowns such as Boris Thomashefsky emerging as stars. The Thalia Theatre sought to change the material of the Yiddish stage to better reform the material that was being produced. “The reformers of the Yiddish stage, Jacob Gordin later explained, wanted to “utilize the theatre for higher purposes; to derive from it not only amusement, but education.” Jacob Gordin himself had numerous times tried to get his plays onto the Windsor stage without luck. “Gordin successfully challenged Lateiner and Hurwitz in 1891–1892 when he entered the Yiddish theatre with an avowed purpose of reforming Yiddish drama.” Rather than “pandering to the public's taste for cheap shund (trash) plays, he sought to secure goodwill of the East Side’s intelligentsia with literature and increasingly incorporated the concepts of “true art” and “serious drama” into their public image.” Professional companies soon developed and flourished, so that between 1890 and 1940, there were over 200 Yiddish theaters or touring Yiddish theatre troupes in the United States. At many times, a dozen Yiddish theatre groups existed in New York City alone, with the Yiddish Theater District, sometimes referred to as the \"Jewish Rialto\", centered on Second Avenue in what is now the East Village, but was then considered part of the Jewish Lower East Side, which often rivaled Broadway in scale and quality. At the time the U.S. entered World War I, there were 22 Yiddish theaters and two Yiddish vaudeville houses in New York City alone. Original plays, musicals, and even translations of \"Hamlet\" and Richard Wagner's operas were performed, both in the United States and Eastern Europe during this period.\n\nYiddish theatre is said to have two artistic golden ages, the first in the realistic plays produced in New York City in the late 19th century, and the second in the political and artistic plays written and performed in Russia and New York in the 1920s. Professional Yiddish theatre in New York began in 1886 with a troupe founded by Zigmund Mogulesko. At the time of Goldfaden's funeral in 1908, the \"New York Times\" wrote, \"The dense Jewish population on the lower east side of Manhattan shows in its appreciation of its own humble Yiddish poetry and the drama much the same spirit that controlled the rough audiences of the Elizabethan theatre. There, as in the London of the sixteenth century, is a veritable intellectual renascence.\"\n\nJacob Dinezon quipped: \"The still young Yiddish theatre that went to America did not recognize its father just three or four years later, nor would it obey or come when called.\" Responding in a letter to Dinezon, Goldfaden wrote: \"I do not have any complaints about the American Yiddish theatre not recognizing its father... it is not rare that children do not recognize their parents; or even that the parents cannot travel the road their children have gone. But I do have complaints, though I do not know to whom, that my dear Jewish child is growing up to be a coarse, un-Jewish, insolent boor, and I expect that some day I will be cursed for that very thing that I brought into the world... Here in America ... it has thrown all shame aside and not only is it not learning anything, it has forgotten whatever good it used to know.”\"\n\n“In February 1902, Jewish builder and philanthropist Harry Finschel bought a piece of land of about 10,000 square feet, at the south corner of Grand and Chrystie Streets with the intention to erect on the site a theatre for Yiddish performances.” At the time of the opening of the Grand Theatre in New York (1903), New York's first purpose-built Yiddish theater, the \"New York Times\" noted: \"That the Yiddish population is composed of confirmed theatregoers has been evident for a long time, and for many years at least three theatres, which had served their day of usefulness for the English dramas, have been pressed into service, providing amusement for the people of the Ghetto.\"\n\nIn fact, this was a tremendous understatement of what was going on in Yiddish theatre at the time. Around the same time, Lincoln Steffens wrote that the theatre being played at the time in Yiddish outshone what was being played in English. Yiddish New York theatregoers were familiar with the plays of Ibsen, Tolstoy, and even Shaw long before these works played on Broadway, and the high calibre of Yiddish language acting became clear as Yiddish actors began to cross over to Broadway, first with Jacob Adler's \"tour de force\" performance as Shylock in a 1903 production of \"The Merchant of Venice\", but also with performers such as Bertha Kalich, who moved back and forth between the city's leading Yiddish-language and English-language stages.\n\nNina Warnke wrote: \"In his memoirs, A. Mukdoni summed up the ambivalent feelings Russian Jewish intellectuals had about the influx of American plays and players onto their soil on the eve of the war: 'The American repertoire—be it the good or bad one—and the American actors—be they the good or bad ones—made us realize that the Yiddish theatre is really in America and that here in Poland and Russia the Yiddish theatre lives off the fallen crumbs that it collects under the rich American table.'\n\"Mukdoyni was certainly correct in realizing that the center of Yiddish theatrical production was in New York, and that Poland was turning into its cultural colony. This theatrical expansion eastward, which had begun slowly in the 1890s because of the great need in Eastern Europe to fill the vacuum of repertoire, turned into a conscious American export item during the 1910S. At that time, the immigrant community in New York as a whole, and the Yiddish theatre in particular, had matured, and they were confident enough of their power and unique status to begin to actively seek acknowledgement, accolades, and financial gain beyond the local and regional spheres. The war would only briefly interrupt this emerging trend. What Clara Young was one of the first to discover, actors such as Molly Picon and Ludwig Satz would realize during the interwar period: Poland offered not only a lucrative market for American Yiddish actors, but also an environment where up-and-coming performers could more easily achieve a career breakthrough than in New York. In the early years of immigration, Eastern Europe had served as a necessary recruitment pool to feed the American Yiddish theatre with new stage talent; shortly before World War I, it began to provide new audiences and marketing possibilities for the creative energies that had gathered in New York.\"\n\nSome of the most important Yiddish playwrights of the first era included: Jacob Gordin (1853–1909), known for plays such as \"The Yiddish King Lear\" and for his translations and adaptations of Tolstoy, Solomon Libin (1872–1955), David Pinski (1872–1959), and Leon Kobrin (1872–1946).\n\nThis first golden age of Yiddish drama in America ended when the period from 1905 to 1908 brought half a million new Jewish immigrants to New York. Once again, as in the 1880s, the largest audience for Yiddish theatre was for lighter fare. The Adlers and Keni Liptzin hung on doing classic theatre, but Boris and Bessie Thomashefsky returned to the earlier style, making a fortune off of what the Adlers despised as \"shund\" (\"trash\") theatre. Plays like Joseph Lateiner's \"The Jewish Heart\" succeeded at this time, while Gordin's late plays like \"Dementia Americana\" (1909) were initially commercial failures. It would be 1911 before the trend was reversed, with Adler's commercially successful production of Tolstoy's \"The Living Corpse\" (also known as \"Redemption\"), translated into Yiddish by Kobrin. Both the more and the less serious Yiddish theatre persisted. As Lulla Rosenfeld writes, \"Art and \"shund\" alike would find their audience.\"\n\nThe Yiddish theatre continued to have its ups and downs. In 1918, Isaac Goldberg could look around himself and reasonably write that, \"...the Yiddish stage, despite the fact that it has produced its greatest dramatists only yesterday\"... is already, despite its financial successes, next door to extinction.\" As it happens, it was on the dawn of a second era of greatness: a 1925 \"New York Times\" article asserts that \"the Yiddish theater has been thoroughly Americanized... it is now a stable American institution and no longer dependent on immigration from Eastern Europe. People who can neither speak nor write Yiddish attend Yiddish stage performances and pay Broadway prices on Second Avenue.\" This is attributed to the fact that Yiddish theatre is \"only one of... [the] expressions\" of a New York Jewish cultural life \"in full flower\".\n\nFamous plays of this second golden era were \"The Dybbuk\" (1919), by S. Ansky, considered a revolutionary play in both Yiddish and mainstream theatre. It has been translated into many languages and performed thousands of times all over the world, on stage and on television; there have been several movies. It is now regarded as the crown jewel of the Jewish theatre. Operas, ballets, symphonic suites and other musical compositions have been based on The Dybbuk. In earlier years it was considered so significant that parodies about The Dybbuk were written and performed in Europe and the United States.\n\nAn-sky wrote a number of other plays, four of which are included in his \"Gezamelte shriften\", long out of print. One (“Day and Night”) is, like \"The Dybbuk\", a Hasidic Gothic story. The other three plays have revolutionary themes, and were originally written in Russian: “Father and Son.” “In a Conspiratorial Apartment,” and “The Grandfather.” All four have recently been republished in a bilingual Yiddish-English edition.\n\nAlso notable are \"The Golem\" by H. Leivick (1888–1962), as well as the plays of Sholem Aleichem.\n\nBuenos Aires, Argentina figured prominently in Yiddish theatre between the wars. While pre-war Yiddish theatre in Argentina had bordered on burlesque, shortly after World War I Thomashefsky and others brought their companies to Buenos Aires for the off-season when New York theaters were closed for the summer (the Argentine winter). According to Michael Terry, Buenos Aires experienced a \"golden age\" of Yiddish theatre in the 1930s and 1940s, becoming \"the second city of the world history of Yiddish theater.\" There were also theatre performances in Yiddish in many Brazilian cities.\n\nYiddish theatre after the Second World War was revived with the writing and performance of \"The Warsaw Ghetto\".\n\nSeveral of America's most influential 20th-century acting teachers, such as Stella Adler (daughter of Jacob and Sara Adler and sister of actor Luther Adler) and Lee Strasberg, had their first tastes of theatre in Yiddish. Though some of the methods developed by them and other members of the Group Theatre were reactions to the often melodramatic and larger-than-life style of Yiddish theatre, this style nonetheless informed their theories and left its stamp on them. Yiddish theatre was also highly influential on what is still known as Jewish humor.\n\nLike the rest of Yiddish-language culture, Yiddish theatre was devastated by the Holocaust. Most of the world's Yiddish-speakers were killed and many theatres were destroyed. Many of the surviving Yiddish-speaking Ashkenazim emigrated to Israel, where many assimilated into the emerging Hebrew-language culture, since Yiddish was discouraged and looked down upon by Zionists. In Soviet Union, the Moscow State Jewish Theatre continued to perform until 1948, when it was shut down.\n\nAlthough its glory days have passed, Yiddish theatre companies still perform in various Jewish communities. The Folksbiene (People's Theatre) company in New York City is still active 90 years after it was founded. New Yiddish Rep, founded in New York City in 2007, has been very successful at producing Yiddish shows for a younger audience than the senior-citizen oriented Folksbiene. The Dora Wasserman Yiddish Theatre of Montreal, Quebec, Canada has been active since 1958.\n\nThe Ester Rachel and Ida Kaminska Jewish Theater in Warsaw, Poland and the State Jewish Theater in Bucharest, Romania also continue to perform plays in Yiddish, with simultaneous translations into Polish and Romanian respectively. Although Yiddish theatre never truly caught on in the state of Israel, the Yiddishpiel Theatre company (founded in 1987) is still producing and performing new plays in Tel-Aviv. The longest-running Yiddish production in Israel, which was also one of the few commercial Yiddish theatrical successes post Holocaust, was Pesach Burstein's production of Itzik Manger's \"Songs of the Megillah\" (Yiddish: Megille Lider). It also released on Broadway in 1968 to favourable reviews as \"Megilla of Itzik Manger\". The career of the Burstein troupe has recently been documented in the documentary film \"The Komediant\". Opera singer and actor David Serero is bringing Yiddish theatre, adapted in english, back to the Lower East Side of New York, with plays such as the Yiddish King Lear.\n\nThe 1987 musical \"On Second Avenue\" is an off-Broadway musical and looks back at Yiddish theatre on New York's Second Avenue. It had a successful revival in 2005, with a cast led by Mike Burstyn, and was nominated for two Drama Desk Awards.\n\nOne of Alan Menken's first musicals, the c.1974 \"Dear Worthy Editor\", was based on the letters-to-the-editor of Jewish-American newspaper Daily Jewish Forward, featuring the struggles of Eastern-European Jews from the turn of the century as they tried to assimilate while hold onto their culture.\n\n\n\n"}
