{"id": "53672389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53672389", "title": "Abui people", "text": "Abui people\n\nThe Abui are an indigenous ethnic group (also known as Barawahing, Barue or Namatalaki) residing on Alor Island, East Nusa Tenggara, Indonesia. Abui people are spread across the districts of South Alor, East Alor, and Northwest Alor in Alor Regency. Abui people speak the Abui language, as well as Indonesian, and a Malay-based creole, Alor Malay.\n\nThe term \"Abui\" is an Abui word that means ‘mountains’ or alternatively ‘enclosed place’.\n\nAbui people refer to themselves as \"Abui loku ‘the mountain people’.\" The bare term \"Abui\" is often associated with the large mountain range in central Alor, \"Abui foka,\" and is often contrasted to the smaller mountain range in the Kabola/Adang speaking area \"Abui kiding\" in the bird's head of Alor. The language is referred to as \"Abui tanga\" in the Takalelang variety (the most well-studied variety) and \"Abui laral\" in the Welai, Mola, and Mainang varieties. The glossonym \"Abui\" was first introduced by Cora Du Bois in the late 1930s after the ethnonym was already in circulation.\n\nThis ethnonym is also used in Alor Malay/Indonesian to refer to Abui speakers.\n\nThe term \"Barawahing\" is a derogatory exonym meaning 'black, smelly, smoky.'\n\nAccording to Abui oral tradition, Abui people settled in Alor in ancient times and did not find other settlers there. Later some of them moved to the Kabola peninsula. The same tradition accounts that they dwelled in caves in the mountains in the Mainang area. In this area also some rock art is found. Abui refer to neighbouring tribes as ‘younger siblings’ or as ‘new arrivals’. However, the oral tradition in Alor serves too often as a political instrument. The oral tradition has not been verified by archaeological research yet.\n\nThe American anthropologist Cora Du Bois studied and lived among Abui people from 1937-1939 in the village of Atimelang, resulting in the publication, \"The People of Alor.\" Around the same time, the Dutch sociologist Martha Margaretha Nicolspeyer published a study of the Abui social structure.\n\nAbui people from Takpala village engage in a traditional dance known as \"lego-lego\", in which dancers move in a circular pattern. Gongs and mokos are also beaten.\n\nThe original religion of the inhabitants of Alor Islands was animistic until much later when Protestant missionaries arrived. Majority of the Alor Island communities are Christians, except for those living along the coast line tend to be Muslims as most of the Muslims living there migrated from other islands.\n\nThe Abui people generally are predominantly Protestant. However, their beliefs have animistic influences as well. Catholic communities are found in Kalabahi and particularly among the Abui people in Takalelang and Mainang.\n\nAbui speakers are mainly farmers, just like other inhabitants of Alor. However, in mountainous areas hunting and gathering is also an important supplement to the staple diet of corn, cassava, and rice. In the coastal areas, which are less favourable for agriculture, many farmers have switched to fishing, the traditional activity of the Austronesian population. Traditional livestock are pigs and chicken. However, livestock seldom supplement the diet due to frequent swine fever and poultry diseases. Thus, the diet is not well balanced, often resulting in poor health conditions and anaemia, especially among children and women. In the mountainous areas the situation is better as traditional hunting provides a more balanced diet. The mountains also favour a number of important cash crops such as tamarind, coconuts, coffee, cloves, cocoa, cashew nuts, candlenuts (Aleurites moluccana), vanilla, almonds (Canarium) and tobacco. These provide the farmers with additional income, which results in generally better living standards than for people in the coastal areas.\n\nThe Abui \"traditional village of Takpala\" (\"kampung tradisional Takpala\") is a tourist destination consisting of a small cluster of traditional houses on a hillside. Visitors watch performances, pose for photographs in traditional attire, and buy handicrafts. In 1980, the Takpala Village won second place for most traditional village at the national level. There are also many Western researchers who would visit the village in order to study the culture, lifestyle and language of the Abui people. Ever since then, Takpala Village is considered a cultural heritage area by the Alor Regency and a tourist destination.\n\nAside from cultural tourism, Alor Island is also known as a world class diving location. To date, there are 42 registered diving sites in Alor Island.\n\nEducational facilities in the Abui area are limited to elementary and secondary schools in district capitals. The nearest university is in Kalabahi, which offers limited training in economy, law, English and computer science. The more significant educational institutions are found in Kupang, the provincial capital of East Nusa Tenggara.\n\n"}
{"id": "38179326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38179326", "title": "Akku Yadav", "text": "Akku Yadav\n\nBharat Kalicharan, alias Akku Yadav (1972 - 13 August 2004), was a 32-year-old rapist and murderer in India who, on 13 August 2004, was lynched by a mob of around 200 women from Kasturba Nagar. Yadav was stabbed over seventy times, and chili powder and stones were thrown in his face. One of his alleged victims also hacked off his penis. This lynching occurred in the Nagpur district court, on the marble floor of the courtroom. The women who killed him claimed that Yadav had been raping and abusing local women with impunity for over a decade, and that the local police had refused to help his victims or pursue charges as Yadav was allegedly bribing them. Yadav had also reportedly murdered at least three people and dumped their bodies on the railroad tracks. The lynching reportedly occurred when Yadav spotted a woman he had raped and called her a prostitute, enraging the crowd.\n\nIn 2012, Akku Yadav's nephew, Amar Yadav was stabbed to death following similar circumstances.\n\nFive women were immediately arrested but released following demonstrations in the city. Every woman living in the local slum has claimed responsibility for the lynching. Usha Narayane, a local activist, was arrested and charged with murder, as were other women. In 2012, Narayane was released from custody. 21 other people, including six women, were also arrested and released due to lack of evidence.\n"}
{"id": "36151994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36151994", "title": "ArduSat", "text": "ArduSat\n\nArduSat is an Arduino based Nanosatellite, based on the CubeSat standard. It contains a set of Arduino boards and sensors. The general public will be allowed to use these Arduinos and sensors for their own creative purposes while they are in space.\n\nArduSat is created by Nanosatisfi LLC, an aerospace company which in the word of Phil Plait has \"the goal to democratize access to space\" and was founded by 4 graduate students from the International Space University in 2012.\n\nArduSat is the first satellite which will provide such open access to the general public to space.\n\nThe ArduSat project currently consists in two identical satellites: ArduSat-1 and ArduSat-X.\n"}
{"id": "14017691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14017691", "title": "Armenian Australians", "text": "Armenian Australians\n\nArmenian Australians refers to Australians of Armenian national background or descent. They have become one of the key Armenian diasporas around the world and among the largest in the English-speaking world. \n\nWhile the Armenian community in Australia is among the youngest of all diasporas, Australia's economic prosperity over the past decade has attracted a large number of skilled Armenian migrants. The official relationship between Australia and Armenia started on 26 December 1991, and diplomatic relations were established on 15 January 1992.\n\nThe influx of Armenians into Australia has come from many different Diaspora countries; these countries include Armenia, Egypt, Iran, Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Israel, Turkey and India.\n\nToday the Austral-Armenian community includes members born in up to and over 43 different countries. The main concentration of Armenians in Sydney are in the City of Ryde (12,000 - 15,000) followed by City of Willoughby and City of Warringah. Smaller communities exist in Adelaide, Brisbane, and Perth. Australians of Armenian heritage are well known in Sydney and now hold an annual festival in the CBD each year which attracts over 25,000 visitors and is the second largest cultural festival behind the Greek festival.\n\nIncreasingly, Australians of Armenian descent are being recognized for their success in Politics, Banking, Finance and Law. \n\nAll traditional Armenian diaspora parties have established in the country:\n\nThere are also many associated political groupings like:\n\nOther operating social and cultural organisations within the Armenian Australian community:\n\nIn Sydney there are several main cultural centres to which Armenians gather, one located in Willoughby, New South Wales named the Armenian Cultural Centre and another located in Bonnyrigg, New South Wales named the Armenian Cultural Panoyan Centre, and smaller Cultural Centres in Neutral Bay, City of Ryde, Frenchs Forest (Ararat Reserve) and Naremburn, Sydney.\nMelbourne also has several cultural centres.\n\nArmenian is an accepted language in the NSW HSC also known as Armenian Continuers the course is taught at Saturday schools or as a subject at full-time Armenian schools.\n\nArmenian Schooling has become stronger throughout the Australian community with two full-time schools operating in Sydney, these are:\n\n\nAlongside which a number of Saturday schools operate as listed below:\n\n\nThe oldest and largest Armenian church in Australia and throughout the world is the Armenian Apostolic Church, which in Australia is led by Archbishop Haigazoun Najarian who is the Primate of the Australian and New Zealand Armenian Apostolic churches and replaced Archbishop Aghan Baliozian. The Armenian Catholic community is led by Father Parsegh (Basil) Sousanian. there is also a presence of the Armenian Evangelical Church in Sydney and Melbourne in addition to the Holy Trinity Armenian Brotherhood Church and the Armenian Evangelical Brethren Church, both in Sydney.\n\nThe Australian Armenian community has produced many notable figures who have become key members who shape the identity of Armenians in Australia. Below are a few of these members.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6643854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6643854", "title": "Atalburu", "text": "Atalburu\n\nAtalburu (from Basque \"atari\" 'doorway' \"buru\" 'head') is the name given to the lintel above the main entrance of traditional Basque houses.\n\nIt was usual for each new house, particularly in the province of Lower Navarre, to engrave on these stones:\n\nThe text may have religious references, for example:\n\nTraditionally, all Basque houses have a name, but this was seldom written on the \"atalarri\" and more commonly found on the \"armarria\". On modern houses, the house name is frequently engraved on a stele near the door. Once a house is named, the name is virtually never changed.\n\n"}
{"id": "37787866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37787866", "title": "Banoth Chandravathi", "text": "Banoth Chandravathi\n\nDr.Banoth Chandravathi is an Indian politician and legislator. She represents Wyra constituency in Khammam district. Earlier she was with CPI party. In April 2014, she joined TRS (Telangana Rashtra Samithi) party.\n\nShe was born in Lambada, a tribal community. She did her medicine.\n\nChandravathi was elected to the Assembly in 2009. She is the youngest legislator in Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly. She married her childhood friend, Suresh in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "43412201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43412201", "title": "Banyumasan people", "text": "Banyumasan people\n\nThe Banyumasan people (\"Ngoko\" Javanese: , \"Madya\" Javanese: , \"Krama\" Javanese: , \"Ngoko\" Gêdrìk: wòng Banyumasan, \"Madya\" Gêdrìk: tiyang Toyåjênéan, \"Krama\" Gêdrìk: priyantun Toyåjênéan, Indonesian: suku Banyumasan) (colloquially known as Ngapak Javanese) is a collective term for a Javanese subgroup native to the Indonesia's westernmost part of Central Java. At approximately 8.5 million people, they are concentrated in Banyumas, Majenang, Cilacap, Gombong, Kebumen, Banjarnegara, Purbalingga, Purwokerto, Bumiayu, Slawi, Pemalang, Tegal, and Brebes regencies. The Banyumasan speak Banyumasan language, a dialect which is often called \"\"basa ngapak-ngapak\".\n\nIn the first era of Hindu-Buddhist in Indonesia, Banyumasan region divided into Tarumanagara Kingdom's influence in the west and Kalingga Kingdom's influence in the east with Cipamali river or \"Kali Brebes\"\" as natural borders. The other Hindu-Buddhist Kingdoms that influenced this region is Galuh Kingdom, Medang Kingdom, Kediri Kingdom, Singhasari Kingdom and Majapahit Empire. After the decline of Majapahit, Banyumasan region become part of Demak Sultanate.\n\nIn Demak Sultanate era (1478–1546), Banyumasan region divided into several \"Kadipaten\", which is Pasirluhur with its \"Adipati\" (Duke) Banyak Belanak, also Kadipaten Wirasaba with its Adipati Wargo Utomo I.\nDue to the territories extent of Demak Sultanate that make Sultan Trenggono (Third Sultan of Demak) consider that a strong military was needed, for that he divided Demak territories militarity into the area of military command. For Western region, Sultan Trenggono choose Adipati Banyak Belanak as a western territory military commander which includes region of Kerawang to Sumbing mountain (Wonosobo). As a military commander of Demak Sultanate, Adipati Pasirluhur was given a title \"Pangeran Senopati Mangkubumi I\" while his younger brother named Wirakencana became a \"Patih\" (General).\n\nAfter the death of Sultan Trenggono, Demak Sultanate split into 3 sections,one of them is Pajang that ruled by Joko Tingkir with his title \"Sultan Adiwijaya\" (1546–1587). In this era, most of Banyumasan region become part of Pajang territory.\n\nFollowing his predecessor's rule, Sultan Adiwijaya also choose Adipati Pasirluhur which at that time being held by Wirakencana, became Senopati Pajang with the title Pangeran Mangkubumi II. Meanwhile, the Adipati of Kadipaten Wirasaba, Wargo Utomo I died and one of his sons named R. Joko Kaiman was chosen by Sultan Adiwijaya became Adipati of Wirasaba with the title \"Wargo Utomo II\", he became 7th Adipati of Wirasaba.\n\nAt the end of Pajang Kingdom's golden era and rise of Mataram Kingdom (1587), Adipati Wargo Utomo II gives his territory of Kadipaten Wirasaba to his brothers, meanwhile he himself created a new Kadipaten and named it Kadipaten Banyumas then he became first Adipati with the title \"Adipati Marapat\".\n\nAnd then, this Kadipaten of Banyumas growing rapidly, even after the center of this Kadipaten were transferred to Sudagaran - Banyumas, due to its influences, other Kadipatens became smaller. Along with the growing of Mataram Sultanate, Many Kadipatens in Banyumasan became under Mataram rule.\n\nMataram rule over Kadipatens in Banyumasan region didn't automatically annexed Banyumasan region into \"inner circle\" of Mataram power which makes Kadipatens in Banyumasan region still have autonomy and Mataram people also considered Banyumasan region as \"Måncånêgårå Kulòn\" region, and the people are often called \"Wòng (m)Banyumasan\".\n\nBanyumasan social structure have their own unique that which differs with the other Javanese because they had neighboring Sundanese (Priangan Timur) influence, even its root was still Javanese culture. This also related with the people's characteristic which was very egalitarian that do not recognized the term \"ningrat\" or \"priyayi\". This was also reflected by their language Banyumasan language that did not recognised register social status. The use of \"high\" language (Krama) essentially was loanwords due to their intensive interraction with other Javanese people (wetanan) in order to appreciate the outer culture. Honorifying to the older person commonly to be shown by good attitude, affection and manner.\nBesides egalitarian, Banyumasan people also recognised by their honest and forthright characteristic which often called Cablaka / Blakasuta.\n\nBanyumasan people speak Banyumasan language, a dialect (or variety?) of Javanese. The language were still retaining some of Old Javanese loanwords. Banyumasan didn't replace the word \"a\" with \"o\" just like standard Javanese do. It is notable for its great number of nearly ubiquitous Sanskrit loans, found especially in literary Javanese. This is due to the long history of Hindu and Buddhist influences in Java.\n\nLike other Javanese in Indonesia, most Banyumasan people are bilingual fluent in Indonesian and Banyumasan. In a public poll held circa-1990, approximately 12% of Javanese used Indonesian, around 18% used both Javanese and Indonesian, and the rest used Javanese exclusively.\n\nIn some areas especially in northern Cilacap and southern Brebes, Banyumasan people are able to speak Sundanese, due to the historical influence from the neighboring eastern Priangan region and the influx of Sundanese people migrated eastward and married the local people.\n\nThe Banyumasan language also commonly written with the a script descended from the Brahmi script, natively known as \"Hanacaraka\" or \"Carakan\". Upon Indonesian independence it was replaced with a form of the Latin alphabet.\n\nBanyumasan Arts were spread almost throughout the region. The art itself were commonly consists of flok performing arts which have certain functions that related to the people's lives with their Creator. There is also another form of arts which is growing including: \"Wayang Kulit Gragag Banyumasan\", it is a form of wayang kulit in Banyumasan version. In this region also recognised two gragak or styles, which is Gragak Kidul Gunung and Gragak Lor Gunung. The specification of wayang kulit gragak Banyumasan is people's feel which is very thick with the show.\n\n\"Bégalan\", a traditional oral art which often used as part of a ceremonial wedding purpose, the property are often kitchen tools which every tools have their own symbolism that contains Javanese philosophy and useful for the bride and groom to create their own family.\n\nBanyumasan traditional music has clear distinct with the other Javanese music.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24653247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24653247", "title": "Barrister Baachaa", "text": "Barrister Baachaa\n\nBarrister Baachaa Khan is a well-known Pakistani Lawyer and ANP (Awami National Party) leader. He was very active in the historic Pakistan Lawyers' Movement, during which he was arrested and jailed. He is an Ex-vice president of the Pakistan Supreme Court Bar Association.\n\nIn the 28 October 2009 elections for the Pakistan Supreme Court Bar presidency, Baachaa lost to Qazi Muhammad Anwar by 44 votes. Baachaa has called for new elections, protesting that the vote was rigged.\n"}
{"id": "19292879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19292879", "title": "Billie Lawless", "text": "Billie Lawless\n\nBillie Lawless (born July 16, 1950) is an American sculptor.\n\nLawless was born in Boston, Massachusetts and grew up in Buffalo, New York. His interest in art was fostered by the presence of the Albright-Knox Art Gallery nearby, and a by sculptor Larry Griffis, who was a friend of the family. Lawless was a rower and in 1967 he stroked the first Senior Heavyweight crew to win the American and Canadian Schoolboy National Championships (Canadian Secondary School Rowing Association) in the same year. In his senior year of high school he represented the United States at the World Rowing Championships held in the Netherlands, competing in the straight four. Rowing has remained a constant in his life through college as a coach at the West Side Rowing Club.\n\nHe attended Rutgers College, New Brunswick, New Jersey from 1968 to 1970 and from 1972 to 1974 when he graduated with a BFA degree. At Rutgers College Lawless studied with Bob Cook, Livingston College and Mel Edwards at Rutgers.\n\nBetween the years of 1970 and 1972 Lawless actively fought against the war in Vietnam. He was involved in litigation with his local draft board. Board officials arbitrarily removed his student status and made him available to the draft, so he claimed conscientious objector status. Lawless litigated and won a decision in New York State Supreme Court.\n\nAfter his student status was restored he enrolled at the University of Notre Dame, South Bend, Indiana and studied with Kostantin Milonadis, a Distinguished Professor and Artist-in-Residence at the university. Lawless committed himself to working with steel and the idea of combining it with as many different materials as possible (in particular at that time, stained glass).\n\nFrom 1980 to 1982 Lawless attended SUNY at Buffalo studying with Duayne Hatchett and George Smith. In June 1982 he received his MFA degree from SUNYAB. Unrelated to the pursuit of his graduate degree Lawless built and installed \"Cock-a-doodle-doo\" at the State University College of Buffalo (Buffalo State College) directly across the street from the Albright-Knox Art Gallery with a dedication in May 1982.\n\nIn 1984 Lawless created the sculpture titled Green Lightning which was placed in the Midtown Corridor of Buffalo, New York.\n\nIn 1994 Lawless married Svetlana Schreiber, an immigration attorney, in Cleveland, Ohio and originally of Sighetu Marmaţiei, Romania. He has two stepsons who reside in New York City.\n\nGreen Lightning was originally conceived as a project at Artpark, Lewiston, New York for the 1983 season. It was subsequently erected in Buffalo, New York in 1984 and heavily damaged a week after its unveiling by the City of Buffalo and City of Buffalo Arts Commission (Director, David More.) Its total destruction was prevented when Lawless drove down to where the sculpture had been unveiled and climbed atop the 30-foot structure in an attempt to prevent workers from cutting it down. He later obtained a court order halting the destruction which had begun by the City under the cloak of darkness well after the Courts had closed. Lawless was one of eight artists accepted to exhibit at Sculpture Chicago '85 in the Spring of 1985. The jurors, Howard Fox of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Mary Jane Jacobs of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago, IL and John Chandler, Director of Supervision, Art Consultancy and Management, Boston, MA, selected Lawless' Green Lightning which was subsequently installed at Harrison and Wells Streets in the South Loop. It stood for five years with no controversy.\n\nIn 1992 a jury in the New York State Supreme Court ruled that the Mayor of the City of Buffalo James D. Griffin and the City of Buffalo Urban Renewal Agency had violated Lawless' civil rights with its unauthorized actions in 1984.\n\nIn the Spring of 1993 Green Lightning was accepted into an exhibition to be held at the Manhattan Psychiatric Center in New York, New York. The exhibition was sponsored by the Association of Independent Artists and curated by John Rosis and Glenn Reed (See prospectus for this exhibition). When the Director of the Center (Michael Ford) voiced his objections to the sculpture both curators (artists living in New York City) attempted to pressure Lawless into submitting another piece. Lawless refused and the American Civil Liberties Union initiated litigation.\n\nJustice Ira Gammerman of the New York State Supreme Court ruled that the Manhattan Psychiatric Center did have to exhibit the piece but that it was not required to give Lawless the site which he had requested. The Center offered a piece of land which was not large enough to hold the sculpture which effectively precluded Lawless from exhibiting the piece. No artists from the exhibition voiced any support for Lawless.\n\nYears later in a 2014 interview, when Lawless was asked if he would bring the Green Lightning sculpture back to Buffalo, he replied \"Any time\".\n\nDidy Wah Didy is named for the last stop on a mythical railroad bound for hell (Black Southern American folklore.) With simple imagery and few words the piece is a timed neon sequence that shows a mushroom cloud forming (animated) over a boy's head. With the words \"Atomic Playground Ahead\" and \"Kids Ride the Big One!\" it is a piercing send-up of typical American roadside attractions. In three of the four corners, constantly flashing are the words \"chills,\" \"spills\" and \"thrills.\" When the \"kid\", who starts out smiling, then becomes alarmed, is finally \"nuked,\" \"death\" with an alternating skull and crossbones flashes in the lower right hand corner. The three flashing words are surrounded by the icons common in Lawless' work, thunderbolts, dollar signs and stars. The display takes about 60 seconds to complete its sequence.\n\nThe Politician A Toy is a Lawless sculpture, created under the fiscal umbrella of The Cleveland Public Theater which is located at 6345 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio. The sculpture was funded by some 150 corporations of local and national origin. For many years, the sculpture was located close to downtown at the corner of Chester Avenue and E. 66th Street on a site provided by Roy Kuhn and the Kinco-Balin Corporation. The sculpture stands over forty feet tall and is enclosed with a wrought iron fence forty feet by fifty feet.The sculpture is composed of twenty tons of steel (plate, channels and I-beams), two tons of polypropylene rope (the tail), fiber glass (the bowties), a ton of cedar (the handle), assorted bearings (for the wheels and mouth mechanism,) television sets (the eyes,) industrial epoxy paints and the various electrical components which power the piece. The sculpture is set on four concrete foundations and surrounded by a wrought iron fence five feet tall. The top of the fence is lined with double entrendres of political cliches. The Mayor of Cleveland, Michael R. White, opposed the erection of the sculpture for purely aesthetic reasons (\"I 've seen it and I don't like it...\" The Plain Dealer, Feb. 19, 1994.) This opposition created difficulty in obtaining the required building permits from the City's Building Department. Ultimately the threat of a Federal lawsuit persuaded City officials to process Lawless' building permits. The sculpture stood on private land for the last thirteen years and was privately funded. Currently, the work resides near the Monte Ahuja College of Business at Cleveland State University, 18th Street and Chester Avenue in downtown Cleveland, Ohio. CSU students wanted to make a community garden around this abomination, but Lawless wouldn't have it, and threatened lawsuits. He claimed that if he thought a garden would enhance his \"artwork\", he would have planted one himself.\n\nArmed with inspiration in the form of Walter Kendrick's \"The Secret Museum\" and Walker Percy's \"The Message in the Bottle\", books dealing with the history of pornography, its suppression, and the nature of language and man, Lawless created a multimedia installation at SPACES (Cleveland, Ohio), a key work in the Uncensored exhibit in 1987. Although smaller than \"Green Lightning\" this work confronted many of the same issues, resurrected the offending \"images\", and incorporated video technology.\n\nFrom the title down to the sources for the video clips, Lawless rips political statements out of their contexts and illuminates them with biting irony. Judge Potter Stewart's infamous inadequate definition of pornography forms the title. Passages from the 1986 Meese Report lifted verbatim from banned films and books were used—titillating material, considering it is a government document. A Mozart string quartet and quotes from Einstein and Susan Sontag were also included on scrolling text. Lawless juxtaposes the \"safest, most conservative music—that of Mozart—with scenes from The Devil and Miss Jones, and comments on the frequent censorship in art as compared to music and science.\n\nFraming the video monitors was a wall of manufactured political posters slapped up repetitively with graffiti, and superimposed on what was a timed sequence of the same neon penis figure stepping up to a podium to direct the proceedings. Although much of the work is tongue-in-cheek, it addresses the issue of censorship, tries to define the weird line between pornography and art, and wrestles with the urge for communication under government suppression.\n\n\"Ms. Sparks is a writer and poet, living in Cleveland, Ohio.\"\n\nBroasted Babies Brew Ha Ha - was first shown at SPACES in Cleveland, Ohio in March 1989. It was exhibited again at CAGE in Cincinnati Ohio in the Fall of 1992.\nIt is a full gallery installation that involved repainting the walls of the gallery a bright pink and which were then layered with stencils, enlarged photocopied recipes with alterations by Lawless, and\ntri-fold silkscreened plastic panels that had animated swinging babies. On the floor Lawless laid out enlarged images from original photographs of the My Lai massacre in Vietnam. These photographs were purchased from the National Archives which included full usage of the copyright. Between and on top of these photographs were laid\nicons that incorporated images repeatedly used by Lawless in his work set in decorated rat traps.\n\nBetween the photographs and leading toward the center of the installation (a broken crucifix on a funeral pyre) were spermlike images composed of yellow paint pigment. Following these images toward the center were multicolored, silkscreened, folded rats that started amassed from one wall in a corner of the gallery.\nThe broken crucifix approximately 8' wide and 10' long and 2' high and composed of sheet metal rested on a funeral pyre of ascending railroad ties.\nInside this crucifix in each corner was a small television set which had a looping video that dealt with a carefully chosen metaphor referring to genocide. The cover of this crucifix was 1/4\" Lexan, painted with images of babies in severed sections. Crisscrossed and also inside were the words BROASTED and BABIES in a light blue neon.\nAccording to Lawless this installation dealt with the subject of 2000 years of genocide as perfected by mankind.\n\nCock-a-doodle-doo is located at SUNY College at Buffalo, across from the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, New York. The sculpture stands 26' High and is 23' wide and 19' deep. The sculpture is composed of steel plate that has been heat treated, sandblasted and finished with epoxy paints. This piece is one of a series of six pieces created by Lawless that deal with a subtle shift of planes, intersections and juxtapositions, formalist in nature, and were the last of his abstract work.\n\nOther works in the abstract sculpture series include:\n\n"}
{"id": "206013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206013", "title": "Brothel", "text": "Brothel\n\nA brothel or bordello is a place where people engage in sexual activity with prostitutes, who are sometimes referred to as sex workers. Technically, any premises where prostitution commonly takes place qualifies as a brothel. However, for legal or cultural reasons, establishments often describe themselves as massage parlors, bars, strip clubs, body rub parlours, studios, or by some other description. Sex work in a brothel is considered safer than street prostitution.\n\nAround the world attitudes towards prostitution, and how it should be regulated (if at all), vary considerably, and have varied over time. Part of the discussion impacts on whether the operation of brothels should be legal, and if so, to what sort of regulations they should be subjected.\n\nOn 2 December 1949, the United Nations General Assembly approved the Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others. The Convention came into effect on 25 July 1951 and by December 2013 had been ratified by 82 states. The Convention seeks to combat prostitution, which it regards as \"incompatible with the dignity and worth of the human person.\" Parties to the Convention agreed to abolish regulation of individual prostitutes, and to ban brothels and procuring. Some countries not parties to the Convention also ban prostitution or the operation of brothels.\n\nVarious United Nations commissions, however, have differing positions on the issue. For example, in 2012, a Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) convened by Ban Ki-moon and backed by United Nations Development Programme and UNAIDS, recommended decriminalization of brothels and procuring.\n\nIn the European Union, there is no uniform policy and no consensus on the issue; and laws vary widely from country to country. Netherlands and Germany have the most liberal policies; in Sweden (and in Norway and Iceland outside the EU) the buying, but not selling, of sex, is illegal; in most former Communist countries the laws target the prostitutes; while in countries such as the UK, Ireland and France the act of prostitution is not itself illegal, but soliciting, pimping and brothels are, making it difficult to engage in prostitution without breaking any law. The European Women's Lobby condemns prostitution as \"an intolerable form of male violence\" and supports the \"Swedish model\".\n\nIn February 2014, the members of the European Parliament voted in a non-binding resolution, (adopted by 343 votes to 139; with 105 abstentions), in favor of the \"Swedish Model\" of criminalizing the buying, but not the selling of sex.\nProstitution and the operation of brothels is illegal in many countries, though known illegal brothels may be tolerated or laws not strictly enforced. Such situations exist in many parts of the world, but the region most often associated with these policies is Asia. When brothels are illegal they may nevertheless operate in the guise of a legitimate business, such as massage parlors, saunas or spas.\n\nIn other places, prostitution itself may be legal, but many activities which surround it (such as operating a brothel, pimping, and soliciting in a public place) are illegal, often making it very difficult for people to engage in prostitution without breaking any law. This is the situation, for example, in the United Kingdom, Italy and France.\n\nIn a few countries, prostitution and operating a brothel is legal and regulated. The degree of regulation varies widely by country. Most of these countries allow brothels, at least in theory, as they are considered to be less problematic than street prostitution. In parts of Australia, for example, brothels are legal and regulated. Regulation includes planning controls and licensing and registration requirements, and there may be other restrictions. However, the existence of licensed brothels does not stop illegal brothels from operating. According to a report in the Australian \"Daily Telegraph\", illegal brothels in Sydney in 2009 outnumbered licensed operations by four to one; while in Queensland only 10% of prostitution happens in licensed brothels, with the rest being either unregulated or illegal. The introduction of legal brothels in Queensland was to help improve safety of sex workers, punters and the community at large and reduce crime. This is believed to have been successful in many ways in Queensland with The Viper Room being one of the most well known, clean, safe and most highly regard brothels in Brisbane and Queensland.\nThe Netherlands has one of the most liberal prostitution policies in the world, and attracts sex tourists from many other countries. Amsterdam is well known for its red-light district and is a destination for sex tourism. Germany also has very liberal prostitution laws. The largest brothel in Europe is the Pascha in Cologne. Although the Dumas Hotel in Butte, Montana operated legally from 1890 until 1982, brothels are currently illegal throughout the United States, except in rural Nevada; prostitution outside these licensed brothels is illegal throughout the state. All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County, which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area.\n\nThe earliest recorded mention of prostitution as an occupation appears in Sumerian records from ca. 2400 BCE, and describes a temple-bordello operated by Sumerian priests in the city of Uruk. The 'kakum' or temple was dedicated to the goddess Ishtar and housed three grades of women. The first group performed only in the temple sex-rites; the second group had the run of the grounds and catered to its visitors as well; and the third and lowest class lived on the temple grounds but were free to seek out customers in the streets. In later years, sacred prostitution and similar classifications of females were known to have existed in Greece, Rome, India, China, and Japan.\n\nState brothels/bordellos with regulated prices existed in ancient Athens, created by the legendary lawmaker Solon. These brothels catered for a predominantly male clientele, with women of all ages and young men providing sexual services (see Prostitution in ancient Greece). In ancient Rome female slaves provided sexual services for soldiers, with brothels being located close to barracks and city walls. Brothels existed everywhere. The custom was to display lit candles to signal that they were open.\n\nBefore the appearance of effective contraception, infanticide was common in brothels. Unlike usual infanticide—where historically girls were more likely to be killed at birth—prostitutes in ancient times were more likely to kill male offspring.\n\nCities first began setting up municipal brothels between 1350 and 1450 CE. Municipalities often owned, operated, and regulated the legal brothels. Governments would set aside certain streets where a keeper could open a brothel. These separate sections of town were the precursors to the so-called \"red light districts\". Not only did the towns restrict where a keeper could open a brothel, they also put constraints on when the brothel could be open. For example, most brothels were forbidden to be open for business on Sunday and religious holidays. The reason for this is not completely clear. Some scholars believe these restrictions were enforced to make the prostitutes go to church but others argue that it was to keep parishioners in church and out of the brothels. Either way, it was a day of no revenue for the keeper.\n\nAlthough brothels were set up as a sexual outlet for men, not all men were allowed to enter them. Clerics, married men, and Jews were prohibited. Often, foreigners such as sailors and traders were the main source of revenue. Local men who frequented the brothels mainly consisted of single men; laws restricting the patrons were not always enforced. Government officials or police would periodically do searches of the brothels to cut down on the number of unpermitted customers. However, since the government was so closely related to the church, common punishments were minor. These restrictions were put in place to protect the wives of married men from any sort of infection.\n\nMultiple restrictions were placed on the residents of brothels. One limitation prohibited prostitutes from borrowing money from her brothel keeper. Prostitutes paid high prices to the brothel keeper for the basic necessities of life: room and board, food, clothes, and toiletries. Room and board was often a price set by the local government but the price for everything else could add up to a common woman's entire earnings. Prostitutes were sometimes prohibited from having a special lover. Some regulations put on prostitutes were made to protect their clients. A woman was kicked out if she was found to have a sexually transmitted disease. Also, the prostitutes were not allowed to pull men into the brothel by their clothing, harass them in the street, or detain them over unpaid debts. Clothing worn by prostitutes was regulated as well and had to be distinguishable from that of respectable women. In some places a prostitute had to have a yellow stripe on her clothing while in others red was the differentiating color. Other towns required harlots to don special headdresses or restricted the wardrobe of proper women. All restrictions placed on prostitutes were put in place not only to protect them but nearby citizens as well.\n\nEven with all the regulations placed on legalized brothels and those people associated with the establishments, they were fated to be done away with. Because of a syphilis epidemic throughout Europe many brothels were shut down during the end of the Middle Ages. This epidemic had been brought on by Spanish and French military pillages after the return of Christopher Columbus from the newly discovered Americas. The church and citizens alike feared that men who frequented brothels would bring the disease home and infect morally upright people.\n\nFrom the 12th century, brothels in London were located in a district known as the Liberty of the Clink. This area was traditionally under the authority of the Bishop of Winchester, not the civil authorities. From 1161, the bishop was granted the power to license prostitutes and brothels in the district. This gave rise to the slang term \"Winchester Goose\" for a prostitute. Women who worked in these brothels were denied Christian burial and buried in the unconsecrated graveyard known as Cross Bones.\n\nBy the 16th century, the area was also home to many theatres, (including the Globe Theatre, associated with William Shakespeare), but brothels continued to thrive. A famous London brothel of the time was \"Holland's Leaguer\". Patrons supposedly included James I of England and his favourite, George Villiers, 1st Duke of Buckingham. It was located in a street that still bears its name and also inspired the 1631 play, \"Holland's Leaguer\". Charles I of England licensed a number of brothels including the Silver Cross Tavern in London, which retains its licence to modern day because it was never revoked.\n\nThe authorities of Medieval Paris followed the same path as those in London and attempted to confine prostitution to a particular district. Louis IX (1226–1270) designated nine streets in the Beaubourg Quartier where it would be permitted. In the early part of the 19th century, state-controlled legal brothels (then known as \"\"maisons de tolérance\" or \"maisons closes\"\") started to appear in several French cities. By law, they had to be run by a woman (typically a former prostitute) and their external appearance had to be discreet. The \"maisons\" were required to light a red lantern when they were open (from which is derived the term red-light district) and the prostitutes were only permitted to leave the \"maisons\" on certain days and only if accompanied by its head. By 1810, Paris alone had 180 officially approved brothels.\n\nDuring the first half of the 20th century, some Paris brothels, such as le Chabanais and le Sphinx, were internationally known for the luxury they provided. The French government sometimes included a visit to the \"Chabanais\" as part of the program for foreign guests of state, disguising it as a \"visit with the President of the Senate\" in the official program. The \"Hotel Marigny\", established in 1917 in the 2nd arrondissement of Paris, was one of several that were well known for catering to gay male clients. Premises suspected of being gay brothels, including the Hotel Marigny, were however subject to frequent police raids, perhaps indicating less tolerance for them from the authorities.\n\nIn most European countries, brothels were made illegal after World War II. France outlawed brothels in 1946, after a campaign by Marthe Richard. The backlash against them was in part due to their wartime collaboration with the Germans during the occupation of France. Twenty-two Paris brothels had been commandeered by the Germans for their exclusive use; some had made a great deal of money by catering for German officers and soldiers. One brothel in the Monmartre District of the French capital was part of an escape network for POWs and shot down airmen.\n\nItaly made brothels illegal in 1959, but many have recently become legal again in some cities. The 2010s decade has seen the introduction of sex dolls and sexbots on the premises of some brothels.\n\nBrothels have been used formally in China for prostitution and entertainment since Ancient China in its feudal period. For much of China's ancient and imperial history, brothels were owned by wealthy merchants, typically stereotyped as \"madams\", and engaged in business in urban areas such as the Capital city. Prostitutes, or \"courtesans\" as they were known, were well-dressed and groomed to the proper table and drinking manners(禮). A Chinese prostitute may have been artistic and skilled at practices such as dancing, playing musical instruments, singing and conversing in verse. Prostitution was not outlawed in ancient and imperial China (although prostitutes were not considered fit for marriage to men of respectable social ranking) and instead prostitutes hosted in street brothels were popularly placed in the same social class as female artisans and regarded as elegant, albeit tainted, beings, most notably courtesans who used similar means to entertain members of nobility. Both young women and men worked as prostitutes in these elaborate brothel settings, though historical records and works of literature have widely romanticized the free-flowing, artistic nature of female prostitutes.\n\nThe practice of hosting prostitutes in these elaborate brothels spread to surrounding regions of Chinese cultural influence, notably in Japan after the sixth century AD, where prostitutes and courtesans evolved to develop the \"Oiran\" and \"Geisha\" entertainment professions. Again, the \"geisha\" of Japan emphasized good table manners, artistic skills, elegant styling and sophisticated, tactical conversational skills. The practice also spread to Korea, where prostitutes evolved into the Korean \"kisaeng\".\n\nThe governments of many Indian princely states had regulated prostitution in India prior to the 1860s. British Raj enacted Cantonment Act of 1864 to regulate Prostitution in colonial India as a matter of accepting a necessary evil. The Cantonment Acts regulated and structured prostitution in the British military bases which provided for about twelve to fifteen Indian women kept in brothels called \"chaklas\" for each regiment of thousand British soldiers. They were licensed by military officials and were allowed to consort with soldiers only. \n\nBrothels in India came into life in early 1920s, when there was a proper dance group in Maharashtra; when people went to see the group's performance, they would demand sex as well, showing a willingness to pay. Enormous amounts of money earned made the show's organizers move the show to different parts of India such as Lucknow, Jaipur and Kolkata, giving birth to the modern brothel industry in India.\n\nFrom 1911 to 1913 the United States Department of Justice undertook the task of collecting information on the numbers of prostitutes in brothels in order to use this information against the much feared \"White Slave Traffic\". This effort collected information from 318 cities of 26 Eastern states. It estimated about 100,000 women to be working in brothels at the time, yet some estimated the total number of prostitutes to be as high as 500,000.\n\nDuring the late nineteenth century, brothels in the United States were no secret. George Kneeland articulated his growing concern about the organized sex business in America well, saying that prostitution had grown into a \"highly commercialized and profitable business that penetrated the deepest recesses of the political, cultural and economic life of the city.\" Brothels were commonly referred to as \"disorderly houses\", and their residents were called by many names, some euphemistic - e.g., \"abandoned woman\", \"bawd good-time daisy\", \"fallen angel\", \"fille de joie\", \"jeweled bird\", \"lady of the evening\", \"shady lady\", \"soiled dove\", \"wanton woman\", and \"woman of the town\" - and some less kind – e.g., \"hooker\", \"slut\", and \"whore\". As the 19th century went on, prostitution as a profession became more common, rather than just occasionally necessitated soliciting. As a result of these changes, the way prostitution was practiced changed. Many prostitutes still practiced their trade independently, but the new class of professional prostitutes created a demand for a location to do their regular business, and the brothel served this purpose. \nVisitors could easily find disorderly houses by merely opening up the local or statewide directories, such as the 1895 \"Travelers' Guide of Colorado\". This 66-page manual helped the interested client decide which brothel was right for him. These manuals did not attract by using euphemistic language, and though bold by standards of the time, were not crude. Some examples read: \"Twenty young ladies engaged nightly to entertain guest\", and \"Strangers cordially welcome\". In some areas, brothels simply could not be ignored. A nineteenth-century authority describes the city of New Orleans as such: \"The extent of licentiousness and prostitution here is truly appalling and doubtless without a parallel in the whole civilized world. The indulgence and practice is so general and common that men seldom seek to cover up their acts or go in disguise.\"\n\nThe average house held five to twenty working girls; some higher end brothels also employed staff servants, musicians, and a bouncer. The typical brothel contained several bedrooms, all furnished. Some upscale brothels were much larger; such is the case with that owned by Mary Ann Hall of Arlington, Virginia. It is described as \"a rather grand house with twenty five rooms and was enclosed by a brick wall. The interior was elegantly furnished. The principle rooms on the first floor contained large oil paintings, Brussels carpets, red plush 'parlor furniture', étagères (a shelf for small ornaments), and numerous items of silver plate.\" An archeological dig of the area outside of Mary Ann Hall's estate revealed a high quality of material superior to those in surrounding working class areas. This included many champagne bottles and corks, wire cages from such bottles, perfume bottles, high quality porcelain with gilt edging, along with remnants of exotic foods – coconut shells and berry seeds, bones from beef, fish, and pork indicating that elegant meals were being eaten at this high class brothel. These \"five and ten dollar parlor houses\" attracted wealthy men, who used the facilities much as a gentlemen's social club, where they made business and political connections, met with associates, and had exquisite dinners with wine, champagne, and women. Brothels were not only for the wealthy. \"One-dollar houses\" were visited by those of the working class. A 1910 Kansas vice report compares the two: \"A few brothels were equipped with expensive furniture and furnishings including the finest of upholstered chairs, well done paintings and costly rugs, which others were hovels of repulsive squalor.\"\n\nWomen joined brothels from all walks of life. The average prostitute was approximately age 21, but many were as young as thirteen or as old as 50. Typically thought of as an escape for young, poor, troubled women, brothels sometimes attracted those less expected. Trained musicians and singers sometimes were lured into it by their interest in easy money and fun times. Some others turned to brothels to get out of their boring, abusive, or otherwise unfulfilling marriages. Although they might be of various classes, ethnicities, and ages, most women who began or joined brothels had a shared goal: quick money. Ironically, many found themselves always indebted to their mistresses. Due to their lack of credit, a prostitute was unable to buy items necessary for her trade herself – powder, cosmetics, perfumes, and \"evening wear\" - but was forced to buy them through her Madam.\n\nSome madams, often former prostitutes themselves, rose to become independently wealthy. One was Mary Ann Hall of Arlington, Virginia. Clearly attractive and a good business woman, Mary Ann purchased a lot and built a brick house. This would be the location of an upscale brothel for another 40 years, sitting right at the foot of Capitol Hill. Her brothel was very lucrative, and Mary Ann was able to buy multiple slaves and even a summer home. She was responsible for the behavior or her prostitutes, which could prove challenging since drug abuse was common. A large focus for madams was keeping their business transactions discreet and staying on the good side of the law; they did so by contributing money to charitable organizations, schools, and churches. Despite these efforts, much of the profit still went to legal fines and fees, since prostitution was largely illegal. Timely payment of these fines could guarantee a madam that her business could continue without fear of being shut down, usually. Brothels were expected to pay significantly higher rent than others. Another upscale bordello was the Big Brick in Charleston, South Carolina, built and operated by Grace Peixotto, the daughter of the Rev. Solomon Cohen Peixotto, and the madam of the most infamous brothel in the history of the city.\n\nA madam stayed involved in her business. Running a house with so many in it required skill. A brothel required the purchase of regular food and food preparation. A madam had to monitor the cleanliness of the brothel, including the sheets that had to be changed several times in an evening, and maintain a stock of wines and liquors for clientele. She was the boss of the brothel, so a madam fired and hired servants, maids, and prostitutes. New faces in the brothel were desired by patrons, so madams had to find new women to recruit. Sometimes this meant taking in a less than desired woman, yet with youth and good looks. The \"new\" prostitute received training, cosmetics, and clothes from the madam. A prostitute from Kansas City is recorded as saying that she is no match for the \"proper\" behavior and dress required for the famous Ice Palace in Chicago.\n\nDisorderly houses, or any other dwelling used for purposes of selling sex or other lewd acts in the early 20th century, were illegal with a few exceptions: the states of Arkansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, New Mexico, and South Carolina. Penalties could range from $1,000 and time in jail, to much smaller fines.\n\nUntil recently, in several armies around the world, mobile brothels were attached to the army as auxiliary units, especially attached to combat units on long-term deployments abroad. Because it is a controversial subject, military brothels and the women who provided sex services in them were often designated with creative euphemisms. Examples of such jargon are (), replacing the term \"\". France used mobile brothels during the First World War, the Second World War and the First Indochina War to supply sex services to French soldiers who were facing combat in areas where brothels were unusual, such as at the front line or in isolated garrisons. Brothels were outlawed in France in 1946; but the French Foreign Legion continued to use mobile brothels until the late 1990s.\n\nDuring the Second World War, women drawn from throughout the Far East were forced into sexual slavery by the occupation armies of Imperial Japan. These women were referred to as \"comfort women\" (kanji=慰安婦; hiragana=いあんふ}. During the Second World War in Europe, Nazi Germany created military brothels where an estimated 34,140 enslaved women from Nazi-occupied Europe, particularly Poland, were forced to work as prostitutes in brothels.\n\nAfter the Japanese surrender following the Second World War, the Japanese government formed the Recreation and Amusement Association and recruited 55,000 of its \"patriotic women\" to \"sacrifice themselves\" to the G.I. occupation, to protect the chastity of pure Japanese womenfolk.\n\nIn South Korea, women who worked as prostitutes for UN forces were called Western princesses. Between the 1950s and 1960s, 60% of South Korean prostitutes worked near the US military bases. Korean leader Park Chung-hee encouraged the sex trade, particularly with the U.S. military, in order to generate revenue. Since the mid-1990s, Filipina and Russian women have worked as prostitutes for U.S. servicemen in South Korea. In 2010, the Philippine government stopped approving contracts that promoters use to bring Filipinas to South Korea to work near U.S. military bases.\n\nA number of brothels offering only sex dolls exist in Japan. There is also one in Barcelona, and recently one named Bordoll opened in Germany. Another was set to open on 8 September, 2018 in Toronto, Canada though it was deemed to be contrary to a by-law in the city, forcing its shutdown..\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2783619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2783619", "title": "Chernobyl Children International", "text": "Chernobyl Children International\n\nChernobyl Children International (CCI) is a United Nations-accredited, non-profit, international development, medical, and humanitarian organisation that works with children, families and communities that continue to be affected by the economic outcome of the 1986 Chernobyl accident. The organisation's founder and chief executive is Adi Roche. Before 2010, it was known as Chernobyl Children's Project International (CCPI).\n\nChernobyl Children's Project International was founded in Ireland in 1991 by Adi Roche in response to an appeal from Belarusian doctors for aid. Roche, previously a volunteer in a nuclear disarmament group, received a fax in 1991 which read \"SOS appeal. For god's sake, please help us get the children out,\" which inspired her to take action. That year, Roche set up a small workspace in a spare bedroom of her home and began organising 'rest and recuperation' holidays for a few Chernobyl children. Recruiting Irish families who would welcome and care for them, CCPI began in Ireland in 1991, and expanded into the United States in 2001. It changed its name to Chernobyl Children International in 2010.\n\nOver its lifetime, the organisation has grown in strength and numbers and is now the single largest contributor to Belarus and the fallout from Chernobyl. It works closely with the Belarusian government, the United Nations and many thousands of volunteers in Ireland, Belarus and worldwide to deliver a broad range of supports to the children and the wider community. It also acts as an advocate for the rights of those affected by the Chernobyl explosion, and engages in research and outreach activities to encourage the rest of the world to remember the victims and understand the long-term impact on their lives.\n\nTo date, Chernobyl Children's contributions exceed €105 million in direct and indirect aid. Its flagship Rest and Recuperation Programme has brought over 25,500 children to Ireland, returning an average of two years to each child's lifespan. . Following advocacy by Voluntary CEO at the United Nations General Assembly on the 30th Anniversary of the disaster, the UN designated the 26 April to be known as 'International Chernobyl Disaster Remembrance Day'.\n\nChernobyl Children International works with families and communities in Chernobyl affected regions to help them to overcome the domino effect of poverty, poor health, and social and psychosocial impact that was the aftermath of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster.\n\nActive programmes of Chernobyl Children International include:\n\n\nAs a charitable, non-profit organisation, Chernobyl Children International relies heavily on the contribution of thousands of volunteers. CCI's volunteers are organised into three programmes:\n\n\nThe organisation also helps and maintains Volunteer Outreach Groups that are located throughout Ireland and Northern Ireland. The Outreach groups organise their own awareness and fundraising events in aid of the CCI, and have helped raise millions of Euro for the victims of Chernobyl.\n\nChernobyl Children International is overseen by an eight-person board of directors. Its membership includes Roche, Ali Hewson, Noel Kelly, and Liz O'Donnell. Peter Lacy is the Chairperson of the Board of Directors.\n\nHewson, the wife of U2's lead singer Bono, is one of the organisation's more visible members and patrons and has made a number of trips with the group to the Chernobyl-affected areas. All proceeds from U2's 1998 single, \"Sweetest Thing,\" were donated to the organisation.\n\nVoluntary CEO Adi Roche and Chernobyl Children International received many prestigious awards and honours for their work in the region.\n\nAwards\n\nAdi has been the recipient of many accolades including:\n\n\nHonorary Degrees\n\n\nChernobyl Children's Project International was the focus of the 2003 film \"Chernobyl Heart\", which won the Academy Award for Best Documentary (Short Subject).\n\nThe organization's volunteer activities were featured in the 26 April 2006 edition of \"People\" magazine.\n\nThe organization was awarded Special Congressional Recognition in 2006, for \"outstanding humanitarian work\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41576826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41576826", "title": "Craftivist Collective", "text": "Craftivist Collective\n\nThe Craftivist Collective is an activist social enterprise which uses craftivism to engage people in social justice issues. It was set up in 2009 by Sarah Corbett.\nThere are around 1000 members worldwide. The main group is based in London with around 10 further active groups.\nThe Craftivist Collective was a runner-up in the Observer Ethical Awards 2013 for the Arts & Culture Award. They were named by the \"Times\" as one of their five 'New Tribes' of 2012.\nFollowers of the movement include Lauren O'Farrell, Reverse graffiti artist Moose, \"Guardian\" craft columnist Perri Lewis, jewellers Tatty Devine, comedian Josie Long, Tilly Walnes. entrant in the first series of the \"Great British Sewing Bee\", \"Company\" craft columnist and author Jazz Domino Holly, and mosaic artist Carrie Reichardt.\nSam Roddick is a mentor to the group and suggested the honorary label 'Craptivist' to cover non-crafty supporters.\n\nThere is a manifesto and a checklist of goals for the work of the group which includes being welcoming, encouraging and positive, creative and non-threatening, and to focus on global poverty and human rights injustices\n\nThe Craftivist Collective has been called 'guerrilla crafting', as their projects often involve leaving crafted messages in public places. Their projects are often small-scale, intended to draw people in. There are lists of projects to do and video tutorials online. They run talks, workshops, stalls and exhibitions and sell Craftivist Collective kits and merchandise.\n\nThe 'collective' is a loose term covering anyone who gets involved. The group particularly seeks to engage people who haven't previously had much involvement or interest in politics and activism. For many members the group is a stepping stone to more traditional activism methods. Corbett calls it 'slow activism' and 'introverted activism', saying \"it's not about performance and vying for attention, it's about offering people the choice to engage\".\n\nThe groups hold regular meetings. Other groups such as Women's Institutes and schools have also been involved in projects. The collective is self-funded and receives donated materials from supporters.\n\nA self-proclaimed 'burnt-out activist' who disliked the image of the aggressive activist, but wanted to do something to change the world, Sarah Corbett was involved in activism while growing up in Liverpool and then studying at the University of Manchester. She worked for traditional charities for seven years. It was after moving to London for a job in 2007 and joining various activist groups that she started getting increasingly into her hobby of cross-stitch, finding that it helped with stress.\n\nShe didn't feel like she fitted into any of the activist groups she joined in London. She had been cross-stitching as a hobby since the age of 18 and in August 2008 had the 'light bulb' idea to combine the two.\n\nCorbett set up the Lonely Craftivist blog in 2008 and began receiving comments and emails from people around the world asking to join in. She held a first meeting and got in touch with sociologist Betsy Greer who coined the word 'craftivism' in 2003 by. Greer was encouraging so Corbett founded and co-ordinated a national group called Craftivist Collective. In 2012 she went part-time at her Oxfam job to devote more time to the collective, and in October 2012 gave up her job to work full-time for Craftivist Collective.\n\nThe group have worked with Christian Aid, One World Week, Oxfam, Save the Children, People & Planet, Toms Shoes, Bystander Revolution, UNICEF, and War on Want.\n\nThey have run workshops at the Greenbelt festival, Hayward Gallery, NUS Student Conference, Queen Elizabeth Hall, Secret Cinema, Secret Garden Party, Sheffield Doc/Fest, Southbank Centre, Tate Britain, UCL, Victoria and Albert Museum/Coats, Wilderness Festival and the Women's Library.\n\nThe group’s work has been exhibited at the Bluecoat gallery in Liverpool, the People's History Museum, St Fagans museum in Cardiff, and the Ulster Hall, Belfast.\nThe collective supports Fine Cell Work, a social enterprise that trains prisoners in needlework.\n\nSarah Corbett has given talks about the Craftivist Collective at the British Museum, Sunday Wise, TedX Brixton, and the Wigtown Book Festival. She has been a guest lecturer at Parsons The New School for Design and Leeds College of Art.\n\n\"A Little Book of Craftivism\" by Sarah Corbett was published in Autumn 2013 by Cicada Publishing, distributed by Thames & Hudson. This was followed by \"How To Be A Craftivist\" in October 2017.\n\nThe collective was featured on Al Jazeera in September 2013 and on the Canal+ television show \"Nouveaux Explorateurs: Megalopolis\", broadcast in France in November 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "40780381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40780381", "title": "Danish people in Greenland", "text": "Danish people in Greenland\n\nDanish Greenlanders are Danish immigrants in Greenland and their descendants.\n\nDanish Greenlanders are a minority ethnic group in Greenland, accounting for around 11% of the territory's population. Greenlandic Inuit (including mixed-race persons) make up approximately 85%–90% of the total (2009 estimate). \n\nAttracted by good employment opportunities with high wages, many Danes settled in the town of Nuuk during the 1990s. Nuuk has the highest proportion of Danes of any town in Greenland.\n\nThere was continuous Scandinavian settlement in south-western Greenland from the 10th century until the 15th century. It remains unclear exactly when and how these populations eventually disappeared, but climate change appears to be the primary cause. The majority of these Medieval settlers hailed from Norway (by way of Iceland), rather than Denmark.\n\nFrom 1721 onwards, the Danish (and Norwegian) presence in south-western Greenland was restored, initially in the form of seasonal trading posts and missions, rather than permanent settlements.\n\nBoth Danish and Greenlandic have been used in public affairs in Greenland since the establishment of home rule in 1979; the majority of the population can speak both languages. Kalaallisut (Greenlandic) became the sole official language in June 2009. Danish is still widely used in the administration and in higher education, as well as remaining the first or only language for some Danish immigrants in Nuuk and other larger towns. A debate about the role of Kalaallisut (Greenlandic) and Danish in future society is ongoing.\n\nAbout 12% of the population of Greenland speaks Danish as a first or sole language, particularly Danish immigrants in Greenland, many of whom fill positions such as administrators, professionals, academics, or skilled tradesmen. While Greenlandic is dominant in all smaller settlements, a part of the population of Inuit or mixed ancestry, especially in towns, speaks Danish. Most of the Inuit population speaks Danish as a second language. In larger towns, especially Nuuk and in the higher social strata, this is still a large group.\n\n"}
{"id": "59167969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59167969", "title": "Discrimination against asexual people", "text": "Discrimination against asexual people\n\nDiscrimination against asexual people (also known as acephobia or aphobia) encompasses a range of negative attitudes, behaviours, and feelings toward asexuality or people who identify as part of the asexual spectrum. Negative feelings or characterisations toward asexuality include dehumanisation, the belief that asexuality is a mental illness, that asexual people cannot feel love, and refusal to accept asexuality as a genuine sexual orientation. Asexuality is sometimes confused with celibacy. Anti-asexual hate crimes also exist, and asexual people may face greater amounts of prejudice and discrimination than those of other sexual minorities.\n\nThere have been efforts to combat anti-asexual discrimination through legislation or education (such as asexual workshops).\n\nBehaviours and attitudes that are considered discriminatory include the idea that asexuality is a mental illness, that asexuality is a phase or a choice, the idea that asexual people cannot feel love, and those that make asexual people feel dehumanised. Aspects of discrimination experienced can depend on other parts of one's identity.\n\nOne study found that asexual people are the most dehumanised of all sexual minorities, and also that asexuals can face even more prejudice that gay, lesbian, and bisexual people. Asexuals have also been known to have been subjected to corrective rape.\n\nSome, such as sociologist Mark Carrigan believe that asexual discrimination is more to do with marginalisation, and that a lot of it is a result of a lack of understanding and awareness of asexuality. There is also controversy over the inclusion of asexuality in the LGBT and queer umbrellas, with some believing that asexuals do not experience oppression and are encroaching on the LGBT community.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, marriages can be voided if not legitimised by consummation. This has been viewed as discriminatory to asexuals. Sex education programmes in schools have also been known to discriminate against asexuals.\n\nAsexuals may be socially discriminated against due to beliefs that that heterosexuality is the default sexuality or that asexuals are actually gay or lesbian people in denial.\n\nIn New York, the Sexual Orientation Non-Discrimination Act categorises asexuals as a protected class.\n\nThe Asexual Visibility and Education Network is an organisation founded in 2001 by David Jay, and aims to raise awareness of asexuality, including by getting it discussed in schools to discourage discriminatory attitudes. The Asexual Awareness Week is an organised event formed by Sarah Beth Brooks in 2010, also with the aim of raising asexual awareness and dispelling misconceptions about it. There have been attempts to increase awareness of asexuality in universities.\n\nIn 2015, United Kingdom Labour Party parliamentary candidate George Norman called for Parliament to add asexuality to equality legislation, and to recognise that one per cent of the UK's electorate are asexual.\n"}
{"id": "1936879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1936879", "title": "Economic Espionage Act of 1996", "text": "Economic Espionage Act of 1996\n\nThe Economic Espionage Act of 1996 () was a 6 title Act of Congress dealing with a wide range of issues, including not only industrial espionage (\"e.g.\", the theft or misappropriation of a trade secret and the National Information Infrastructure Protection Act), but the insanity defense, the Boys & Girls Clubs of America, requirements for presentence investigation reports, and the United States Sentencing Commission reports regarding encryption or scrambling technology, and other technical and minor amendments.\n\nThe act makes the theft or misappropriation of a trade secret a federal crime. Unlike the Espionage Act of 1917 (found at ), the offense involves commercial information, not classified or national defense information.\n\n\"Trade secrets\" are defined in the act consistent with generally accepted legal definitions such as those used in the Uniform Trade Secrets Act and state laws based on the UTSA. Specifically it declares:\n\nThe United States Department of Justice Criminal Division has issued a prosecution policy relating to enforcement of the Act. In general, it states:\n\nThe Act can be employed to accomplish several purposes:\n\nIn \"United States v. Lange\", the EEA was used to protect a victim company that had learned that Lange, a disgruntled former employee, had been offering to sell its secret manufacturing processes to third parties. The company reported Lange to the FBI, and Lange was arrested and subsequently convicted and sentenced to 30 months in prison. The case was successful in large part because the company undertook reasonable measures to keep its information secret, including:\n\n\nThe EEA has also been used to prosecute a Boeing manager, together with an employee he hired from Lockheed Martin with the offer of a higher salary in return for his inside information on Lockheed Martin's pricing. Although the EEA charges were later dropped, the matter resulted in Boeing being denied $1 billion in contracts from the United States Air Force, as well as it paying a $615 million settlement to the US Government.\n\nIn February 2010, former Boeing engineer Dongfan \"Greg\" Chung was sentenced to 16 years in prison, following the first ever trial conviction under the 1996 Economic Espionage Act. Chung, a native of China, was convicted by the US District Court for the Central District of California of stealing Boeing trade secrets related to the US Space Shuttle program and the Delta IV rocket. He spent over 30 years providing U.S. aerospace technologies to China. Chung was convicted on charges related to more than 350,000 sensitive documents that were found concealed in crawl spaces underneath his home, including conspiracy to commit economic espionage, six counts of economic espionage to benefit a foreign country, one count of acting as an agent of the People's Republic of China, and one count of making false statements to the FBI. The 15-year sentence is viewed as a life sentence for Chung who is 74 years old.\n\nChung was arrested by special agents from the FBI's Los Angeles Field Office in February 2008. He worked for Rockwell International from 1973 until its defense and space unit was acquired by Boeing in 1996, and he continued to work for Boeing as an employee and then as a contractor through 2006. Chung's arrest resulted from an investigation into the case of Chi Mak, a Chinese-American engineer convicted in 2007 of conspiring to export sensitive naval technologies to China and sentenced to more than 24 years in prison.\n\nAt Chung's sentencing, presiding judge, Cormac Carney, said that he could not \"put a price tag\" on national security, and that with the long sentence for Chung he wanted to send a signal to China to \"stop sending your spies here.\"\n\nIn April 2012, Chung's conviction was upheld by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.\n\nMost prosecutions under the Economic Espionage Act have been for violation of Section 1832 (Trade Secret Theft). The first such prosecution was of Daniel and Patrick Worthing, maintenance workers at PPG Industries in Pennsylvania who stole blueprints and diskettes. Both pleaded guilty in early 1997. For another example, see the first conviction in California, that of David Brian Kern.\n\nAfter an August, 2007 plea of guilt for (one count) of violating the Economic Espionage Act and one count of violating the Arms Export Control Act, San Jose U.S. District Court Judge Jeremy Fogel sentenced Canadian citizen Xiaodong Sheldon Meng, 44, to 24 months in federal prison, 3 years of parole and a $10,000 fine, with forfeiture of computer equipment seized. Meng was indicted in December 2006, with 36 counts, \"for stealing military software from a Silicon Valley defense contractor and trying to sell it to the Chinese military.\" The first to be convicted of Economic Espionage (Section 1831), Meng admitted \"illegally obtaining a program used for military training from Quantum3D and later using the program in a demonstration to the People's Liberation Army Navy after he no longer worked for the firm; he attempted to sell the fighter-pilot training software programs to the Royal Thai Air Force, the Royal Malaysian Air Force and the Navy Research Center in China.\" He paid $500,000 bond, for temporary liberty, until August 18 when he begins serving sentence.\n\nOn June 18, 2008, Meng was the first individual sentenced under the Economic Espionage statute. Meng was the first person convicted of both the Economic Espionage Act of 1996 and the Arms Export Control Act. He received a 24-month sentence and $10,000 fine, which included a sentencing departure for cooperation, according to news reports.\n\nThe International Trade Commission has used the EEA's definition of misappropriation to support its enforcement of US trade laws that prohibit \"unfair methods of competition and unfair acts in the importation of articles ... in the United States.\" In \"Tianrui Group Company Limited LLC v International Trade Commission\", the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit held that the manufacture abroad of products using a process that was developed in the United States, protected under domestic trade secret law, and misappropriated abroad, violated section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, . The ITC therefore had the authority to bar the importation of such products into the United States.\n\nThe extent to which trade secrets are covered under § 1832 was expanded in 2012, following the reversal of a conviction in April 2012 by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in \"United States v. Aleynikov\" In that case, it was held that the theft of the source code for a proprietary system at Goldman Sachs was never intended to be placed in interstate or foreign commerce. As Goldman had no intention of selling or licensing its system, § 1832 (as it was written at that time) did not apply. The provision was promptly amended on December 28, 2012 with the passage of the Theft of Trade Secrets Clarification Act of 2012, so that it now applies to products or services that are used or intended for use in interstate or foreign commerce. The amendment led to a conviction in \"United States v. Agrawal\".\n\nOn January 24, 2013, § 1831 was amended to increase the maximum fines:\n\nOn May 11, 2016, in what \"Forbes\" called \"the single most important intellectual property development since Congress enacted the America Invents Act,\" the Defend Trade Secrets Act () expanded the EEA's reach. In cases filed after that date:\n\nThis legislation has created much debate within the business intelligence community regarding the legality and ethics of various forms of information gathering designed to provide business decision-makers with competitive advantages in areas such as strategy, marketing, research and development, or negotiations. Most business intelligence (also known as competitive intelligence practitioners) rely largely on the collection and analysis of open source information from which they identify events, patterns, and trends of actionable interest. However, some techniques focus on the collection of publicly available information that is in limited circulation. This may be obtained through a number of direct and indirect techniques that share common origins in the national intelligence community. The use of these techniques is often debated from legal and ethical standpoints based on this Act.\n\nOne such example is the collection and analysis of gray literature. The techniques for developing actionable intelligence from limited circulation / limited availability documents such as selected corporate publications can raise difficult legal and ethical questions under both intellectual property laws and the Economic Espionage Act.\n\nThe Society for Competitive Intelligence Professionals provides training and publications which outline a series of guidelines designed to support business intelligence professionals seeking to comply with both the legal restrictions of the EEA as well as the ethical considerations involved. In 1999, the Society of Competitive Intelligence Professionals published its \"Policy Analysis on Competitive Intelligence and the Economic Espionage Act\" which explained how the Economic Espionage Act will not affect legitimate competitive intelligence. The \"National Law Journal\" of March 29, 2000, reviewed the Policy Analysis and reported that the Policy Analysis' conclusion was that the EEA's \"impact on legitimate competitive intelligence would be negligible\" and that \"nearly four years\" after the EEA's passage, \"it appears that the [Policy Analysis'] predictions were on target.\"\n\nThe EEA was developed on the basis of a national philosophy that emphasizes a \"level playing field\" for all business competitors that arose in no small part due to the size and diversity of the American private sector. Many other nations not only lack such legislation, but actively support industrial espionage using both their national intelligence services as well as less formal mechanisms including bribery and corruption. The United States Office of the National Counterintelligence Executive publishes an annual report on Foreign Economic Collection and Industrial Espionage mandated by the U.S. Congress which outlines these espionage activities of many foreign nations.\n\nThe United States does not engage in state-sanctioned industrial espionage. In 2000, in response to European concerns, a former U.S. Director of Central Intelligence, James Woolsy, said (in the March 17, 2000 Wall Street Journal editorial) that if there is collection, it's usually focused on bribery by European companies, not on access to technologies. Woolsey said \"most European technology just isn't worth our stealing.\" As DCI, Woolsey testified before Congress that he was reluctant to engage in economic espionage as the endeavor is \"fraught with complexities, legal difficulties (and) foreign policy difficulties.\"\n\nIn 2000, the European Parliament voted to carry out an investigation into the international surveillance project ECHELON. That same year the French government also began an official investigation into allegations that several collaborating nations may be using the program for illegal purposes. U.S. Central Intelligence Agency documents had been revealed to the British press, showing that the U.S. has been using the technology to monitor European business communications. The French and European allegations centered on the suspicion that such information was being passed to U.S. firms. The U.S. stated that monitoring was focused on the participation of European firms in supplying foreign WMD (weapons of mass destruction) programs, such as the Iran nuclear program, on evading sanctions in Iran and Libya, and on the bribery of foreign officials, such as French payments to Saudi Defense officials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41359758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41359758", "title": "European Federation of Animal Science", "text": "European Federation of Animal Science\n\nThe European Federation for Animal Science or EAAP (; ; [sic]) is an international non-governmental organisation which aims to improve the farming of domestic animals. Membership is open to scientists, animal breeders and administrators. The association was founded in Paris in 1949, and has its headquarters in Rome, Italy. It was formerly known as the European Association for Animal Production.\n\nTogether with the British Society of Animal Science and the Institut national de la recherche agronomique, it issues the academic journal \"Animal\", published by the Cambridge University Press.\n\nThe association was founded in Paris during the 5th International Congress on Animal Production. The inaugural meeting was held on 8 November 1949. Although the association was intended to be European in scope, the founding member countries were Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Iran, Italy, Morocco, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland and Tunisia, and thus included parts of both Africa and Asia. \n\nThe declared aim of the association is to:\n"}
{"id": "17332544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17332544", "title": "General Federation of Women's Clubs Headquarters", "text": "General Federation of Women's Clubs Headquarters\n\nThe General Federation of Women's Clubs Headquarters, also known as the Miles Mansion, is a social clubhouse headquarters in Washington, D.C.. Built as a private residence in 1875, it has served as the headquarters of the General Federation of Women's Clubs (GFWC) since 1922. It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1991 for its association with the federation, which serves as an umbrella organization for women's clubs, a social movement dating to the mid-19th century. Tours of the headquarters, available by appointment, provide information about the activities of the GFWC and several historic rooms, including the 1734 entryway, the Julia Ward Howe Drawing Room, the dining room, music room and the GFWC International President's office. The headquarters also features changing exhibits of art, photographs and artifacts from its collections.\n\nThe GFWC headquarters is located southeast of Dupont Circle, on the south side of N Street between St. Matthew's Court and 17th Street. It is a four-story masonry structure, built out of ashlar stone in a Renaissance Revival style. The entrance is in a slightly raised basement level, sheltered by a splayed glass and iron marquee with supporting ironwork brackets. The main floor windows are elongated, with paired casement windows topped by transoms, and keystoned lintels. A polygonal bay projects from the first two floors on the left, and a shallower rectangular one projects to the right of the entrance; both are topped by lower balustrades. The interior has been adapted for the GFWC's use, but retains some original finishes.\n\nThe house was built in 1875 by Rear Admiral William Radford, at a time when the Dupont Circle area was being developed as a fashionable residential neighborhood. In 1895 he sold the house to the state of Massachusetts, which gave it to General Nelson A. Miles in recognition for his military service. It was next owned by John Jay White, a big-game hunter who traveled with Theodore Roosevelt, and who commissioned the murals by Albert Herter that adorn some of its walls. In 1922 the house was purchased by the GFWC for use as its headquarters, a role it continues to play today.\n\nThe GFWC represents the culmination of smaller-scale women's organizations that sprang up in the 19th century, generally to improve the conditions for working and single women. It was the first nationwide organization of this type, enabling a broader scope of influence by these local and regional organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23837098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23837098", "title": "Gha-Mu", "text": "Gha-Mu\n\nGha-Mu (\"Small Flowery Miao\", \"Blue Hmong\") are an ethnic group in China. They are from Guizhou and belong to the Hmong people. Many of them are Christians. The number of persons within this group likely exceeds 100,000. Their language is the Hmong language Small Flowery Miao; Large Flowery Miao is another, of the A-Hmao. \n\n"}
{"id": "58125017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58125017", "title": "Greeks in South Sudan", "text": "Greeks in South Sudan\n\nThe Greek diaspora in what became the Republic of South Sudan in 2011 is tiny in numbers - estimated at around 90 - but historically played an important role and has some prominent members, especially First Lady Mary Ayen Mayardit.\n\nIt is unclear when the first inter-human and cultural exchange between Hellenic and Southern Sudanese civilisations took place. However, since Greek contacts with the Nubian kingdoms of Northern Sudan have been established going back more than two and a half millenia, it may well be argued that through Southern Sudanese exchanges with Nubia there were at least indirect relations since ancient times. Scholars in Ancient Greece were evidently inspired with curiosity about the exotic lands further South and particularly about the sources of the River Nile. Most prominently, the pioneering historian Herodotus (c. 484-c. 425 BCE) made bizarre references to a savage land of the \"burnt faces\" (Aithiopia).\n\nAs Hellenic culture continued to inspire and influence the Nubian kingdoms of Nobadia, Makuria and Alwa in medieval times, it may likewise be argued that indirect contacts between Southern Sudanese societies and the Greek world may well have to continued through Nubia. Before migrating to their modern location the South Sudanese Dinka people lived in close proximity to Alwa, a relation confirmed by the considerable impact the Nubian language had on the Dinka vacabulary.\n\nWhen the Turkish-Egyptian forces of the Ottoman Khedive Mohamed Ali conquered the Funj kingdom in 1821, the invading army reportedly included Greek mercenaries of Arvanite origin - who helped pave the. way for the subsequent conquest of Southern Sudanese lands.\n\nAs more Greeks followed the invaders from Egypt into Northern Sudan, some of them guided expeditions further southward. Greek merchants, who ventured South, were mainly interest in dealing with ivory. Their number and commercial activity greatly increased after the monopoly of trade was abolished in 1849 and the White Nile was opened for navigation.\n\nSome also became involved in the trade of slaves, which devastated large parts of Southern Sudan until the 1870s. The Greek historian Antonios Chaldeos, who has written his PhD thesis about the history of the Greek communities in Sudan, strongly suggests from the local histories of Omdurman residents that one of those slave-traders was George Averoff, who is still widely considered a \"\"philanthropist\" and \"one of the great national benefactors of Greece\"\". The Omdurman quarter of Abu Ruf is still today named after Averoff.\n\nOther Greeks did not come to Southern Sudan for commercial reasons though. For instance, Giuseppina Tabraui, a Roman Catholic missionary sister from a Greek Catholic family in Tiberias, accompanied Bishop Daniele Comboni in 1871 and was the first mother superior of the mission to Central Africa. And Panayotis Potagos, a Greek traveller and physician, explored Bahr El Ghazal in 1876-77.\n\nAfter the 1885 victory of the indigenous Northern Sudanese Mahdist movement over the Egyptian-Turkish rule, the Islamists also took control of most of what is now South Sudan, but held on to it rather loosely - which prompted imperialist Belgian and French missions into Southern Sudan. It may have been in this context that in 1895 a Greek merchant by the name of Grigoris Apostolidis became active in Sambi on the While Nile. He originated from Imvros and after a few years moved on to open a shop Yirol. He got married to a local woman and had two sons with her.\n\nSoon after the defeat of the Mahdist regime and the subsequent Fashoda incident in 1898, the British-dominated colonial regime started establishing control in Southern Sudan. At the same time, Greek merchants once again followed the invaders. The most important player in those early years was business-magnate Angelo Capato, who hailed from the Ionian island of Cephalonia and had been supplying the British Army and Navy in the Red Sea port town of Suakin since 1883. He held British nationality and was particularly close with Governor-General Reginald Wingate:\n\n\"around 1900, the government granted him, against a promise to supply the expeditionary force with necessary provisions, the monopoly (for two or three years?) of the ivory trade in Equatoria\"According to Chaldeos, Capato also received such an exceptional license doing ivory trade in Bor. Another focus of his commercial activities was the region of Bahr El Ghazal. He set up a network of trading-posts across Southern Sudan to collect ivory and cater to colonial officials. For these enterprises he mainly recruited Greek agents, preferably from his home island of Cephalonia and especially from his family there. His business empire soon expanded into the Belgian-controlled Congo Free State, whereby he contributed to the creation of a Greek commuity in Congo that still exists today. Capato's agents also provided information about the Belgian-controlled Lado Enclave to the British intelligence officers in Khartoum.\n\nWhen Capato after a string of misfortunes - amongst them a fire that destroyed his storehouse in Gondokoro - had to declare bankruptcy in 1912, many of his agents continued the business on their own. The colonial government supported this immigration as it preferred giving licences to Greek, Jewish, and Syrian merchants, rather than to Northern Sudanese \"Jellaba\" traders.\n\nIn the region of Upper Nile, a few Greeks settled in Malakal, Bor - which was a center of ivory trade - and Taufikia. In Equatoria, some Greeks - mostly ivory traders, but also a few contractors, engineers and employees - settled in Maridi, Yambio, Tambura, Nzara, Li Yubu, Ezo, Yei, and Mongalla. The greatest number of Greeks, however, settled in Bahr El Ghazal, mainly in its commercial centre Wau, where in 1910 fifteen Greek merchants were reported to make large profits. The Comboni missionary priest Stefano Santandrea, who served in Wau from 1928 to 1948 and then until 1955 in Deim Zubeir, stressed though that \"\"their competition prevented their [Northern] rivals from exploiting the natives\".\" Others went to set up shops in more remote places of the region, like Aweil, Deim Zubeir, Kossinga, Meshra er Req, Raga, Rumbek and Tonj. Some soon went on to settle in the Belgian Congo, French Central Africa and other African lands.\n\nWhen Juba - next to Gondokoro - was developed in the 1920s as the new capital of Mongalla province, \"Greeks and Cypriots played a significant role, which is especially evident in brick architecture that are found around Juba's urban center.\" In 1935, when there were about forty Greeks living in Juba, they founded the Hellenic Community Juba with the intention to set up a Greek-Orthodox church and a school. Gerasimos Contomichalos, a nephew of Capato's and the most eminent business magnate in Sudan, made a substantial donation to the association. Fund-raising for the church building took until 1951 though, when Stelios Roussos made a large donation. In honour of the benefactor the church was named after St. Stylianos and opened in 1954. The Hai Jalaba area of Juba became known as the Greek quarter of town. There were two social clubs by that time.\n\nIn Wau, where about fifty Greeks were living in the late 1930s, the Greek Community of Bahr El Ghazal was founded in 1939. It got granted by the authorities a plot of land, where the community started to construct building that were rented out in order to create a sustainable revenue source for the association. Accordingly, the construction of other buildings was postponed and the Church of Prophet Elias - named after the benefactor Elias Papoutsidis - only opened in 1955. At that time, the community had about 65 members.\n\nWhile the Greeks in Southern Sudan seem to have continued to prosper in the first few years after Sudan's independence, a sign of increasing instability occurred in 1960, when many of them gave refuge to Greeks who fled the Congo Crisis. Just a few years later they themselves came under pressure, as the Anyanya-insurgency escalated across the Southern Sudanese region from 1963 on: after a rebel assault on Wau in early 1964, the military regime of Ibrahim Abboud reportedly “\"announced that foreign traders would only be allowed to reside in provincial or district capitals in the South, where they could be kept under surveillance, and not in villages. This restriction was aimed at Syrian and Greek traders, who were suspected of helping the rebels.\"\n\nShortly afterwards, four Greek merchants were taken to court for charges of having collected donations for the insurgents, but got acquitted. At the end of 1964 two Greek traders in Bahr Al-Ghazal and Equatoria respectively were arrested on charges of acting as a link between rebels and the outside world. In fact, an internal Anyanya paper claimed that \"\"Greek merchants of Tembura helped by providing supplies\"” to a rebel camp in the Central African Republic.\n\nIn 1967, two grandsons of Dimitri Yaloris, a Greek formerly based in Gogrial, and his Dinka wife, were killed in Bahr El Ghazal after being accused of supporting the Anyanya rebels. According to Chaledos, they were targeted by the army in a special operation, since they had indeed supplied arms to the insurgents through their enterprise.\nMoreover, the Greeks of Southern Sudan, many of whom had married locals, came under pressure from both warring sides: while the accusations from Khartoum continued, Southern opposition forces accused Greek monopolists of keeping the prices of animals “\"as low as possible to their own advantage\"\" for export to the Middle East. Thus, the Greek community in the South further diminished during the 1960s, after its numbers had already decreased in the years before 1956. In Bahr El Ghazal, many Greeks left from smaller towns and moved to the provincial capital Wau with its established community premises.\n\nOn the other hand, the Greeks in Southern Sudan seemed to be more resilient than the Greeks in what was then Northern Sudan, where the big exodus started in 1969 with the regime of Gaafar Nimeiry and its nationalisation policies. Reportedly up to 90% of the Greeks in the South had married locals, whereas such relationships used to be very rare in the North. Thus it may be argued that the descendants of bi-cultural couples were more rooted in Southern Sudan.\n\nHowever, the Norwegian-Greek historian Alexandros Tsakos concludes that the relationship between the \"\"class\" of \"pure\" Greeks and those of \"mixed blood\", \"who sarcastically call themselves\" bazramit \"– 'the half-castes\"' \", has historically not just been \"\"fruitful\", but also \"difficult\". He illustrates this through a biographical portray of Photini Poulou-Maistrelli's life as a \"paradigm\" for the latter. Poulou was born in Aweil to a Greek father and a Kreish mother from Raja in 1923. She spent most of her life in Wau and married a Greek merchant, but got into ever-growing feuds both with other Bazramit and the community in Khartoum: for her and the descendants of other intermarriages \"the main issue is to be recognized as Greek\".\"\n\nLittle is known about how the Greek community recovered after the 1972 Addis Ababa Agreement and the establishment of the Southern Sudan Autonomous Region. Nicholas Ghines, who followed two uncles to settle in Equator in 1947 and set up a transport business, opened a safari hunting company in 1972.\n\nIn 1994, the Hellenic Community of Khartoum took over the properties of the inactive communities in the South: the club and church in Juba were leased to the Catholic Archdiocese. \"The same happened in Wau.\" However, when some Greeks returned to Wau in 1995, they managed to regain the community's estates.\n\nAfter the 2005 Comprehensive Peace Agreement, the Greek Community of Juba registered officially again.\n\nIn 2015, \"\"the Divine Liturgy was celebrated for the first time after 38 years in St. Stylianos church in downtown Juba, by Metropolitan Narkissos of Nubia\".\" Narkissos also laid the foundation stone for a new missionary center in Mongalla. The Greek Orthodox Church (Patriarchate Alexandria) is a member of the South Sudan Council of Churches.\n"}
{"id": "42102432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42102432", "title": "Groupe Feministe Socialiste", "text": "Groupe Feministe Socialiste\n\nThe Groupe Feministe Socialiste was founded in 1899 by Louise Saumoneau and Elisabeth Renaud, both working class socialists who wished to bring feminism to the working class in France. The socialist movement and the feminist movement both existed, but had little overlap prior to this point.\n\nOver four million French women were working outside the home in non-agricultural labor at the turn of the century, but they lacked representation in the organized reform efforts. The \"Groupe Feministe Socialiste\" hoped to provide a place for representation of working class women.\n\nThe original manifesto of the \"Groupe Feministe Socialiste\" stated that they wanted to end the \"double oppression of women, exploited on a large scale by capitalism, subject to men by laws and especially by prejudice.\"\n\nThe group gained popularity quickly, but it suffered from disinterest from male socialists as well as class conflict between the bourgeois and proletariat feminists.\n\nA good example of this class conflict can be seen in the suggestion made at a 1900 convention that domestic servants receive a full day off per week, a measure already adapted for industrial workers. Bourgeois feminists hesitated. While \"humanitarian enough to accept reforms in principle, they balked when such reforms threatened their way of life.\"\n\n\"Groupe Feministe Socialiste\" experienced some strife in the form of conflict between its two founders, who had had their differences from the beginning. Elisabeth Renaud's goals were conciliatory; she hoped to bridge the gap between socialism and bourgeois feminism. Louise Saumoneau, on the other hand, hated the bourgeois feminists, feeling that they were irrevocably out of touch with the realities of the working class.\n\nIn 1902, Renaud left the party, leaving Saumoneau to run the party. The \"Groupe Feministe Socialiste\" survived until 1905, when the various socialist groups currently existing in France unified, leaving the \"GFS\" outside of the newly formed \"Section Francaise de L'Internationale Ouvriere\". That combined with Saumoneau's \"uncompromising\" stance, spelled the demise of the \"Groupe Feministe Socialiste\".\n"}
{"id": "6618816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6618816", "title": "Gweno language", "text": "Gweno language\n\nGweno is a Bantu language spoken in the North Pare Mountains in the Kilimanjaro Region of Tanzania. The people known as the Gweno (or more properly \"Asu\") are a Chaga ethnic and linguistic group. Since the Chaga people are Bantu speakers, the adopted language contains dialects similar to that of the Kenyan language Kamba. Gweno shares about 54% to 56% of its vocabulary with other Chaga dialects and 46% with Taita dialects. However, a large percentage of its vocabulary is not seen in the other dialects. Also at the start of the 11th century, the Chaga people descended and migrated from the Bantu group in which they migrated to the foothills of mount Kilimanjaro. The Gweno language is today spoken mostly by older adults, with younger generations having shifted to Asu and Swahili. \"Ethnologue\" considers Gweno to be moribund; the language is not being passed down because children have not been exposed to Gweno since the 1970s. The generational shift from Gweno to either Asu or Swahili has certainly created shifts in dialect, however Gweno speakers do not see this as a threat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15450", "title": "Industrial and organizational psychology", "text": "Industrial and organizational psychology\n\nIndustrial and organizational psychology (I/O psychology), which is also known as occupational psychology, organizational psychology, and work and organizational psychology, is an applied discipline within psychology. I/O psychology is the science of human behaviour relating to work and applies psychological theories and principles to organizations and individuals in their places of work as well as the individual's work-life more generally. I/O psychologists are trained in the scientist–practitioner model. They contribute to an organization's success by improving the performance, motivation, job satisfaction, and occupational safety and health as well as the overall health and well-being of its employees. An I/O psychologist conducts research on employee behaviours and attitudes, and how these can be improved through hiring practices, training programs, feedback, and management systems.\n\nAs of 2018, I/O psychology is one of the 16 recognized specialties by the American Psychological Association (APA) in the United States. It is represented by Division 14 of the APA, and was formally known as the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology (SIOP). In the United Kingdom, industrial and organizational psychologists are referred to as occupational psychologists. Occupational psychology in the UK is one of nine 'protected titles' within the profession \"practitioner psychologist\" regulated by the Health and Care Professions Council. In the UK, graduate programs in psychology, including occupational psychology, are accredited by the British Psychological Society.\n\nIn Australia, the title organizational psychologist is protected by law, and regulated by the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA). Organizational psychology is one of nine areas of specialist endorsement for psychology practice in Australia.\n\nIn Europe someone with a specialist EuroPsy Certificate in Work and Organisational Psychology is a fully qualified psychologist and an expert in the work psychology field. Industrial and organizational psychologists reaching the EuroPsy standard are recorded in the Register of European Psychologists and industrial and organizational psychology is one of the three main psychology specializations in Europe.\n\nThe historical development of I/O psychology was paralleled in the US, the UK, Australia, Germany, the Netherlands, and eastern European countries such as Romania. The roots of I/O psychology trace back nearly to the beginning of psychology as a science, when Wilhelm Wundt founded one of the first psychological laboratories in 1879 in Leipzig, Germany. In the mid 1880s, Wundt trained two psychologists, Hugo Münsterberg and James McKeen Cattell, who had a major influence on the emergence of I/O psychology.\n\nInstead of viewing performance differences as human \"errors\", Cattell was one of the first to recognize the importance of differences among individuals as a way of better understanding work behavior. Walter Dill Scott, who was a contemporary of Cattell, was elected President of the American Psychological Association (APA) in 1919, was arguably the most prominent I/O psychologist of his time. Scott, along with Walter Van Dyke Bingham, worked at the Carnegie Institute of Technology, developing methods for selecting and training sales personnel.\n\nThe \"industrial\" side of I/O psychology originated in research on individual differences, assessment, and the prediction of work performance. Industrial psychology crystallized during World War I, in response to the need to rapidly assign new troops to duty. Scott and Bingham volunteered to help with the testing and placement of more than a million army recruits. In 1917, together with other prominent psychologists, they adapted a well-known intelligence test the Stanford–Binet, which was designed for testing one individual at a time, to make it suitable for group testing. The new test was called the Army Alpha.\n\nAfter the War, the growing industrial base in the US was a source of momentum for what was then called industrial psychology. Private industry set out to emulate the successful testing of army personnel. Mental ability testing soon became commonplace in the work setting.\n\nElton Mayo found that rest periods improved morale and reduced turnover in a Philadelphia textile factory. He later joined the ongoing Hawthorne studies, where he became interested in how workers' emotions and informal relationships affected productivity. The results of these studies ushered in the human relations movement.\n\nWorld War II brought renewed interest in ability testing (to accurately place recruits in new technologically advanced military jobs), the introduction of the assessment center, and concern with morale and fatigue in war industry workers.\n\nThe industrial psychology division of the former American Association of Applied Psychology became a division within APA, becoming Division 14 of APA. It was initially called the Industrial and Business Psychology Division. In 1962, the name was changed to the Industrial Psychology Division. In 1973, it was renamed again, this time to the Division of Industrial and Organizational Psychology. In 1982, the unit become more independent of APA, and its name was changed again, this time to the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology.\n\nThe name change of the division from \"industrial psychology\" to \"industrial and organizational psychology\" reflected the shift in the work of industrial psychologists who had originally addressed work behavior from the individual perspective, examining performance and attitudes of individual workers. Their work became broader. Group behavior in the workplace became a worthy subject of study. The emphasis on \"organizational\" underlined the fact that when an individual joins an organization (e.g., the organization that hired him or her), he or she will be exposed to a common goal and a common set of operating procedures. In the 1970s in the UK, references to occupational psychology became more common than I/O psychology.\n\nAccording to Bryan and Vinchur, \"while organizational psychology increased in popularity through [the 1960s and 1970s], research and practice in the traditional areas of industrial psychology continued, primarily driven by employment legislation and case law\" (p. 53). There was a focus on fairness and validity in selection efforts as well as in the job analyses that undergirded selection instruments. For example, i/o psychology showed increased interest in behaviorally anchored rating scales. What critics there were of i/o psychology accused the discipline of being responsive only to the concerns of managements.\n\nFrom the 1980 to 2010s other changes in i/o psychology took place. Researchers increasingly adopted a multi-level approach, attempting to understand behavioral phenomena from both the level of the organization and the level of the individual worker. There was also an increased interest in the needs and expectations of employees as individuals. For example, an emphasis on organizational justice and the psychological contract took root, as well as the more traditional concerns of selection and training. Methodological innovations (e.g., meta-analyses, structural equation modeling) were adopted. With the passage of the American with Disabilities Act in 1990 and parallel legislation elsewhere in the world, i/o psychology saw an increased emphasis on \"fairness in personnel decisions.\" Training research relied increasingly on advances in educational psychology and cognitive science.\n\nAs described above, I/O psychologists are trained in the scientist–practitioner model. I/O psychologists rely on a variety of methods to conduct organizational research. Study designs employed by I/O psychologists include surveys, experiments, quasi-experiments, and observational studies. I/O psychologists rely on diverse data sources including human judgments, historical databases, objective measures of work performance (e.g., sales volume), and questionnaires and surveys.\n\nI/O researchers employ quantitative statistical methods. Quantitative methods used in I/O psychology include correlation, multiple regression, and analysis of variance. More advanced statistical methods employed in I/O research include logistic regression, structural equation modeling, and hierarchical linear modeling (HLM; also known as multilevel modeling). I/O research has also employed meta-analysis. I/O psychologists also employ psychometric methods including methods associated with classical test theory, generalizability theory, and item response theory (IRT).\n\nI/O psychologists have also employed qualitative methods, which largely involve focus groups, interviews, and case studies. I/O research on organizational culture research has employed ethnographic techniques and participant observation. A qualitative technique associated with I/O psychology is Flanagan's Critical Incident Technique. I/O psychologists sometimes use quantitative and qualitative methods in concert. OHP researchers have also combined and coordinated quantitative and qualitative methods within a single study.\n\nJob analysis encompasses a number of different methods. It primarily involves the systematic collection of information about a job. A task-oriented job analysis involves an examination of the duties, tasks, and/or competencies required by the job being assessed. By contrast, a worker-oriented job analysis involves an examination of the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics (KSAOs) required to successfully perform the work. Information obtained from job analyses are used for many purposes, including the creation of job-relevant selection procedures, performance appraisals and the criteria they require, and the development of training programs.\n\nI/O psychologists typically work with human resource specialists to design (a) recruitment processes and (b) personnel selection systems. Personnel recruitment is the process of identifying qualified candidates in the workforce and getting them to apply for jobs within an organization. Personnel recruitment processes include developing job announcements, placing ads, defining key qualifications for applicants, and screening out unqualified applicants.\n\nPersonnel selection is the systematic process of hiring and promoting personnel. Personnel selection systems employ evidence-based practices to determine the most qualified candidates. Personnel selection involves both the newly hired and individuals who can be promoted from within the organization. Common selection tools include ability tests (e.g., cognitive, physical, or psycho-motor), knowledge tests, personality tests, structured interviews, the systematic collection of biographical data, and work samples. I/O psychologists must evaluate evidence regarding the extent to which selection tools predict job performance.\n\nPersonnel selection procedures are usually validated, i.e., shown to be job relevant to personnel selection, using one or more of the following types of validity: content validity, construct validity, and/or criterion-related validity. I/O psychologists must adhere to professional standards in personnel selection efforts. SIOP (e.g., \"Principles for validation and use of personnel selection procedures\") and APA together with the National Council on Measurement in Education (e.g., \"Standards for educational and psychological testing\" are sources of those standards. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's \"Uniform guidelines\" are also influential in guiding personnel selection decisions.\n\nA meta-analysis of selection methods found that general mental ability was the best overall predictor of job performance and attainment in training.\n\nPerformance appraisal or performance evaluation is the process in which an individual's or a group's work behaviors and outcomes are assessed against managers' and others' expectations for the job. Performance appraisal is frequently used in promotion and compensation decisions, to help design and validate personnel selection procedures, and for performance management. Performance management is the process of providing performance feedback relative to expectations, and information relevant to improvement (e.g., coaching, mentoring). Performance management may also include documenting and tracking performance information for organizational evaluation purposes.\n\nAn I/O psychologist would typically use information from the job analysis to determine a job's performance dimensions, and then construct a rating scale to describe each level of performance for the job. Often, the I/O psychologist would be responsible for training organizational personnel how to use the performance appraisal instrument, including ways to minimize bias when using the rating scale, and how to provide effective performance feedback.\n\nIndividual assessment involves the measurement of individual differences. I/O psychologists perform individual assessments in order to evaluate differences among candidates for employment as well as differences among employees. The constructs measured pertain to job performance. With candidates for employment, individual assessment is often part of the personnel selection process. These assessments can include written tests, aptitude tests, physical tests, psycho-motor tests, personality tests, integrity and reliability tests, work samples, simulations, and assessment centres.\n\nI/O psychologists are concerned with occupational health and well-being. Early in the 20th century Arthur Kornhauser examined the impact on productivity of hiring mentally unstable workers. Kornhauser also examined the link between industrial working conditions and mental health as well as the spillover into a worker's personal life of having an unsatisfying job.\n\nMore recently, I/O researchers have found that staying vigorous during working hours is associated with better work-related behaviour and subjective well-being as well as more effective functioning in the family domain. Trait vigor and recovery experiences after work were related to vigor at work. Job satisfaction has also been found to be associated with life satisfaction, happiness, well-being and positive affect, and the absence of negative affect. Other research indicates that among older workers activities such as volunteering and participating in social clubs was related to a decrease in depressive symptoms over the next two years. Research on job changing indicates that mobility between, but not within, organizations is associated with burnout.\n\nI/O psychologists are concerned with the related topics of workplace bullying, aggression, and violence. For example, I/O research found that exposure to workplace violence elicited ruminative thinking, and ruminative thinking, in turn, is associated with poor well-being. I/O research has found that interpersonal aggressive behaviours is associated with worse team performance.\n\nCompensation includes wages or salary, bonuses, pension/retirement contributions, and employee benefits that can be converted to cash or replace living expenses. I/O psychologists may be asked to conduct a job evaluation for the purpose of determining compensation levels and ranges. I/O psychologists may also serve as expert witnesses in pay discrimination cases, when disparities in pay for similar work are alleged by employees.\n\nTraining involves the systematic teaching of skills, concepts, or attitudes that results in improved performance in another environment. Because many people hired for a job are not already versed in all the tasks the job requires, training may be needed to help the individual perform the job effectively. Evidence indicates that training is often effective, and that it succeeds in terms of higher net sales and gross profitability per employee.\n\nSimilar to performance management (see above), an I/O psychologist would employ a job analysis in concert with the application of the principles of instructional design to create an effective training program. A training program is likely to include a summative evaluation at its conclusion in order to ensure that trainees have met the training objectives and can perform the target work tasks at an acceptable level. Training programs often include formative evaluations to assess the effect of the training as the training proceeds. Formative evaluations can be used to locate problems in training procedures and help I/O psychologists make corrective adjustments while training is ongoing.\n\nThe foundation for training programs is learning. Learning outcomes can be organized into three broad categories: cognitive, skill-based, and affective outcomes. Cognitive training is aimed at instilling declarative knowledge or the knowledge of rules, facts, and principles (e.g., police officer training covers laws and court procedures). Skill-based training aims to impart procedural knowledge (e.g., skills needed to use a special tool) or technical skills (e.g., understanding the workings of software program). Affective training concerns teaching individuals to develop specific attitudes or beliefs that predispose trainees to behave a certain way (e.g., show commitment to the organization, appreciate diversity).\n\nA needs assessment, an analysis of corporate and individual goals, is often undertaken prior to the development of a training program. In addition, a careful needs analysis is required in order to develop a systematic understanding of where training is needed, what should be taught, and who will be trained. A training needs analysis typically involves a three-step process that includes organizational analysis, task analysis and person analysis.\n\nAn organizational analysis is an examination of organizational goals and resources as well as the organizational environment. The results of an organizational analysis help to determine where training should be directed. The analysis identifies the training needs of different departments or subunits. It systematically assesses manager, peer, and technological support for transfer of training. An organizational analysis also takes into account the climate of the organization and its subunits. For example, if a climate for safety is emphasized throughout the organization or in subunits of the organization (e.g., production), then training needs will likely reflect an emphasis on safety. A task analysis uses the results of a job analysis to determine what is needed for successful job performance, contributing to training content. With organizations increasingly trying to identify \"core competencies\" that are required for all jobs, task analysis can also include an assessment of competencies. A person analysis identifies which individuals within an organization should receive training and what kind of instruction they need. Employee needs can be assessed using a variety of methods that identify weaknesses that training can address.\n\nWork motivation reflects the energy an individual applies \"to initiate work-related behavior, and to determine its form, direction, intensity, and duration\" Understanding what motivates an organization's employees is central to I/O psychology. Motivation is generally thought of as a theoretical construct that fuels behavior. An incentive is an anticipated reward that is thought to incline a person to behave a certain way. Motivation varies among individuals. Studying its influence on behavior, it must be examined together with ability and environmental influences. Because of motivation's role in influencing workplace behavior and performance, many organizations structure the work environment to encourage productive behaviors and discourage unproductive behaviors.\n\nMotivation involves three psychological processes: arousal, direction, and intensity. Arousal is what initiates action. It is often fueled by a person's need or desire for something that is missing from his or her life, either totally or partially. Direction refers to the path employees take in accomplishing the goals they set for themselves. Intensity is the amount of energy employees put into goal-directed work performance. The level of intensity often reflects the importance and difficulty of the goal. These psychological processes involve four factors. First, motivation serves to direct attention, focusing on particular issues, people, tasks, etc. Second, it serves to stimulate effort. Third, motivation influences persistence. Finally, motivation influences the choice and application of task-related strategies.\n\nI/O psychologists are involved in the research and the practice of occupational stress and design of individual and organizational interventions to manage and reduce the stress levels and increase productivity, performance, health and wellbeing. Occupational stress can have implications for organizational performance because of the emotions job stress evokes. For example, a job stressor such as conflict with a supervisor can precipitate anger that in turn motivates counterproductive workplace behaviors. I/O research has examined the association between work stressors and aggression, theft, substance abuse, and depressive symptoms. A number of models have been developed to explain the job stress process, including the person-environment fit model and the demand-control model. Those models became a cornerstone of the emergence, in the late 1980s and early 1990s, of a new discipline relevant to research on occupational stress; the discipline, occupational health psychology, is an offshoot of i/o psychology, health psychology, and occupational medicine.\n\nResearch has also examined occupational stress in specific occupations, including police, general practitioners, and dentists. Another concern has been the relation of occupational stress to family life. Other research has examined gender differences in leadership style and job stress and strain in the context of male- and female-dominated industries, and unemployment-related distress. I/O psychology is also concerned with the relation of occupational stress to career advancement.\n\nAccidents and safety in the workplace have become areas of interest to I/O psychology. Examples of psychosocial injury hazards of interest to I/O psychology include fatigue, workplace violence, workplace bullying, and working night shifts. I/O researchers conduct \"stress audits\" that can help organizations remain compliant with various occupational safety regulations. Psychosocial hazards can affect musculoskeletal disorders. A psychosocial factor related to accident risk is safety climate, which refers to employees' perceptions of the extent to which their work organization prioritizes safety. By contrast, psychosocial safety climate refers to management's \"policies, practices, and procedures\" aimed at protecting workers' psychological health. Research on safety leadership is also relevant to I/O psychology. Research suggests that safety-oriented transformational leadership is associated with a positive safety climate and safe worker practices.\n\nOrganizational culture has been described as a set of assumptions shared by individuals in an organization; the assumptions influence the interpretation and actions that define appropriate behavior for various situations. Organizational culture has been shown to affect important organizational outcomes such as performance, attraction, recruitment, retention, employee satisfaction, and employee well-being. There are three levels of organizational culture: artifacts, shared values, and basic beliefs and assumptions. Artifacts comprise the physical components of the organization that relay cultural meaning. Shared values are individuals' preferences regarding certain aspects of the organization's culture (e.g., loyalty, customer service). Basic beliefs and assumptions include individuals' impressions about the trustworthiness and supportiveness of an organization, and are often deeply ingrained within the organization's culture.\n\nIn addition to an overall culture, organizations also have subcultures. Examples of subcultures include corporate culture, departmental culture, local culture, and issue-related culture. While there is no single \"type\" of organizational culture, some researchers have developed models to describe different organizational cultures.\n\nGroup behavior involves the interactions among individuals in a collective. The individuals' opinions, attitudes, and adaptations affect group behavior and group behavior, in turn, affects those opinions, etc. The interactions are thought to fulfill some need satisfaction in an individual who is part of the collective. A specific area of I/O research in group behavior is the team dynamics and team effectiveness.\n\nOrganizations often organize teams because teams can accomplish a much greater amount of work in a short period of time than an individual can accomplish. I/O research has examined the harm workplace aggression does to team performance.\n\nThe selection of individuals to be assigned to specific teams bears on the resulting effectiveness of those teams. Aspects of team composition that should be considered during the team selection process include team members' knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) as well their personalities and attitudes. To achieve high-quality results, teams built with members having higher skill levels are more likely to be effective than teams built around members having lesser skills; teams that include a members with a diversity of skills are also likely to show improved team performance. Additionally, higher levels of cognitive ability of team members has been shown to consistently correlate to increased work group effectiveness. Team members' personalities and attitudes have also been studied. For example, the personality factors agreeableness, conscientiousness, extraversion, and emotional stability are related to better team performance.\n\nA fundamental question in team task design is whether or not a task is even appropriate for a team. Those tasks that require predominantly independent work are best left to individuals, and team tasks should include those tasks that consist primarily of interdependent work. When a given task is appropriate for a team, task design can play a key role in team effectiveness.\n\nJob characteristic theory identifies core job dimensions that affect motivation, satisfaction, performance, etc. These dimensions include skill variety, task identity, task significance, autonomy and feedback. The dimensions map well to the team environment. Individual contributors who perform team tasks that are challenging, interesting, and engaging are more likely to be motivated to exert greater effort and perform better than team members who are working on tasks that lack those characteristics.\n\nOrganizational support systems affect the team effectiveness and provide resources for teams operating in the multi-team environment. During the chartering of new teams, organizational enabling resources are first identified. Examples of enabling resources include facilities, equipment, information, training, and leadership. Team-specific resources (e.g., budgetary resources, human resources) are typically made available. Team-specific human resources represent the individual contributors who are selected to be team members. Intra-team processes (e.g., task design, task assignment) involve these team-specific resources.\n\nTeams also function in dynamic multi-team environments. Teams often must respond to shifting organizational contingencies. Contingencies affecting teams include constraints arising from conditions in which organizational resources are not exclusively earmarked for certain teams. When resources are scarce, they must be shared by multiple teams.\n\nOrganizational reward systems drive the strengthening and enhancing of individual team member efforts; such efforts contribute towards reaching team goals. In other words, rewards that are given to individual team members should be contingent upon the performance of the entire team.\n\nSeveral design elements are needed to enable organizational reward systems to operate successfully. First, for a collective assessment to be appropriate for individual team members, the group's tasks must be highly interdependent. If this is not the case, individual assessment is more appropriate than team assessment. Second, individual-level reward systems and team-level reward systems must be compatible. For example, it would be unfair to reward the entire team for a job well done if only one team member did most of the work. That team member would most likely view teams and teamwork negatively, and would not want to work on a team in the future. Third, an organizational culture must be created such that it supports and rewards employees who believe in the value of teamwork and who maintain a positive attitude towards team-based rewards.\n\nGoals potentially motivate team members when goals contain three elements: difficulty, acceptance, and specificity. Under difficult goal conditions, teams with more committed members tend to outperform teams with less committed members. When team members commit to team goals, team effectiveness is a function of how supportive members are with each other. The goals of individual team members and team goals interact. Team and individual goals must be coordinated. Individual goals must be consistent with team goals in order for a team to be effective.\n\nJob satisfaction is often thought to reflect the extent to which a worker likes his or her job, or individual aspects or facets of jobs. It is one of the most heavily researched topics in I/O psychology. Job satisfaction has theoretical and practical utility for the field. It has been linked to important job outcomes including attitudinal variables (e.g., job involvement, organizational commitment), absenteeism, turnover intentions, actual turnover, job performance, and tension. A meta-analyses found job satisfaction to be related to life satisfaction, happiness, positive affect, and the absence of negative affect.\n\nProductive behavior is defined as employee behavior that contributes positively to the goals and objectives of an organization. When an employee begins a new job, there is a transition period during which he or she may not contribute significantly. To assist with this transition an employee typically requires job-related training. In financial terms, productive behavior represents the point at which an organization begins to achieve some return on the investment it has made in a new employee. I/O psychologists are ordinarily more focused on productive behavior than job or task performance, including in-role \"and\" extra-role performance. In-role performance tells managers how well an employee performs the required aspects of the job; extra-role performance includes behaviors not necessarily required by job but nonetheless contribute to organizational effectiveness. By taking both in-role and extra-role performance into account, an I/O psychologist is able to assess employees' effectiveness (how well they do what they were hired to do), efficiency (outputs to relative inputs), and productivity (how much they help the organization reach its goals). Three forms of productive behavior that I/O psychologists often evaluate include job performance, organizational citizenship behavior (see below), and innovation.\n\nJob performance represents behaviors employees engage in while at work which contribute to organizational goals. These behaviors are formally evaluated by an organization as part of an employee's responsibilities. In order to understand and ultimately predict job performance, it is important to be precise when defining the term. Job performance is about behaviors that are within the control of the employee and not about results (effectiveness), the costs involved in achieving results (productivity), the results that can be achieved in a period of time (efficiency), or the value an organization places on a given level of performance, effectiveness, productivity or efficiency (utility).\n\nTo model job performance, researchers have attempted to define a set of dimensions that are common to all jobs. Using a common set of dimensions provides a consistent basis for assessing performance and enables the comparison of performance across jobs. Performance is commonly broken into two major categories: in-role (technical aspects of a job) and extra-role (non-technical abilities such as communication skills and being a good team member). While this distinction in behavior has been challenged it is commonly made by both employees and management. A model of performance by Campbell breaks performance into in-role and extra-role categories. Campbell labeled job-specific task proficiency and non-job-specific task proficiency as in-role dimensions, while written and oral communication, demonstrating effort, maintaining personal discipline, facilitating peer and team performance, supervision and leadership and management and administration are labeled as extra-role dimensions. Murphy's model of job performance also broke job performance into in-role and extra-role categories. However, task-orientated behaviors composed the in-role category and the extra-role category included interpersonally-oriented behaviors, down-time behaviors and destructive and hazardous behaviors. However, it has been challenged as to whether the measurement of job performance is usually done through pencil/paper tests, job skills tests, on-site hands-on tests, off-site hands-on tests, high-fidelity simulations, symbolic simulations, task ratings and global ratings. These various tools are often used to evaluate performance on specific tasks and overall job performance. Van Dyne and LePine developed a measurement model in which overall job performance was evaluated using Campbell's in-role and extra-role categories. Here, in-role performance was reflected through how well \"employees met their performance expectations and performed well at the tasks that made up the employees' job.\" Dimensions regarding how well the employee assists others with their work for the benefit of the group, if the employee voices new ideas for projects or changes to procedure and whether the employee attends functions that help the group composed the extra-role category.\n\nTo assess job performance, reliable and valid measures must be established. While there are many sources of error with performance ratings, error can be reduced through rater training and through the use of behaviorally-anchored rating scales. Such scales can be used to clearly define the behaviors that constitute poor, average, and superior performance. Additional factors that complicate the measurement of job performance include the instability of job performance over time due to forces such as changing performance criteria, the structure of the job itself and the restriction of variation in individual performance by organizational forces. These factors include errors in job measurement techniques, acceptance and the justification of poor performance and lack of importance of individual performance.\n\nThe determinants of job performance consist of factors having to do with the individual worker as well as environmental factors in the workplace. According to Campbell's Model of The Determinants of Job Performance, job performance is a result of the interaction between declarative knowledge (knowledge of facts or things), procedural knowledge (knowledge of what needs to be done and how to do it), and motivation (reflective of an employee's choices regarding whether to expend effort, the level of effort to expend, and whether to persist with the level of effort chosen). The interplay between these factors show that an employee may, for example, have a low level of declarative knowledge, but may still have a high level of performance if the employee has high levels of procedural knowledge and motivation.\n\nRegardless of the job, three determinants stand out as predictors of performance: (1) general mental ability (especially for jobs higher in complexity); (2) job experience (although there is a law of diminishing returns); and (3) the personality trait of conscientiousness (people who are dependable and achievement-oriented, who plan well). These determinants appear to influence performance largely through the acquisition and usage of job knowledge and the motivation to do well. Further, an expanding area of research in job performance determinants includes emotional intelligence.\n\nOrganizational citizenship behaviors (OCBs) are another form of workplace behavior that I/O psychologists are involved with. OCBs tend to be beneficial to both the organization and other workers. Dennis Organ (1988) defines OCBs as \"individual behavior that is discretionary, not directly or explicitly recognized by the formal reward system, and that in the aggregate promotes the effective functioning of the organization.\" Behaviors that qualify as OCBs can fall into one of the following five categories: altruism, courtesy, sportsmanship, conscientiousness, and civic virtue. OCBs have also been categorized in other ways too, for example, by their intended targets (individuals, supervisors, and the organization as a whole. Other alternative ways of categorizing OCBs include \"compulsory OCBs,\" which are engaged in owing to coercive persuasion or peer pressure rather than out of good will. The extent to which OCBs are voluntary has been the subject of some debate.\n\nOther research suggests that some employees perform OCBs to influence how they are viewed within the organization. While these behaviors are not formally part of the job description, performing them can influence performance appraisals. Researchers have advanced the view that employees engage in OCBs as a form of \"impression management,\" a term coined by Erving Goffman. Goffman defined impression management as \"the way in which the individual ... presents himself and his activity to others, the ways in which he guides and controls the impression they form of him, and the kinds of things he may and may not do while sustaining his performance before them. Some researchers have hypothesized that OCBs are not performed out of good will, positive affect, etc., but instead as a way of being noticed by others, including supervisors.\n\nIndustrial and organizational psychologists consider innovation, more often than not, a variable of less importance and often a counter-productive one to include in conducting job performance appraisals when irrelevant to the major job functions for which a given job exists. Nonetheless, I/O psychologists see the value of that variable where its consideration would, were its reliability and validity questioned, achieve a statistically significant probability that its results are not due to chance, and that it can be replicated reliably with a statistically significant ratio of reliability, and that were a court to raise a question on its reliability and validity testing, the I/O psychologist behind its use would be able to defend it before a court of justice with the belief that it will stand before such a court as reliable, and valid.\n\nFour qualities are generally linked to creative and innovative behaviour by individuals: \n\nAt the organizational level, a study by Damanpour identified four specific characteristics that may predict innovation:\n\n\nCounterproductive work behavior (CWB) can be defined as employee behavior that goes against the goals of an organization. These behaviors can be intentional or unintentional and result from a wide range of underlying causes and motivations. Some CWBs have instrumental motivations (e.g., theft). It has been proposed that a person-by-environment interaction can be utilized to explain a variety of counterproductive behaviors (Fox and Spector, 1999). For instance, an employee who sabotages another employee's work may do so because of lax supervision (environment) and underlying psychopathology (person) that work in concert to result in the counterproductive behavior. There is evidence that an emotional response (e.g., anger) to job stress (e.g., unfair treatment) can motivate CWBs.\n\nThe forms of counterproductive behavior with the most empirical examination are ineffective job performance, absenteeism, job turnover, and accidents. Less common but potentially more detrimental forms of counterproductive behavior have also been investigated including violence and sexual harassment.\n\nIn I/O psychology, leadership can be defined as a process of influencing others to agree on a shared purpose, and to work towards shared objectives. A distinction should be made between leadership and management. Managers process administrative tasks and organize work environments. Although leaders may be required to undertake managerial duties as well, leaders typically focus on inspiring followers and creating a shared organizational culture and values. Managers deal with complexity, while leaders deal with initiating and adapting to change. Managers undertake the tasks of planning, budgeting, organizing, staffing, controlling and problem solving. In contrast, leaders undertake the tasks of setting a direction or vision, aligning people to shared goals, communicating, and motivating.\n\nApproaches to studying leadership in I/O psychology can be broadly classified into three categories: Leader-focused approaches, contingency-focused approaches, and follower-focused approaches.\n\nLeader-focused approaches look to organizational leaders to determine the characteristics of effective leadership. According to the trait approach, more effective leaders possess certain traits that less effective leaders lack. More recently, this approach is being used to predict leader emergence. The following traits have been identified as those that predict leader emergence when there is no formal leader: high intelligence, high needs for dominance, high self-motivation, and socially perceptive. Another leader-focused approached is the behavioral approach which focuses on the behaviors that distinguish effective from ineffective leaders. There are two categories of leadership behaviors: (1) consideration; and (2) initiating structure. Behaviors associated with the category of consideration include showing subordinates they are valued and that the leader cares about them. An example of a consideration behavior is showing compassion when problems arise in or out of the office. Behaviors associated with the category of initiating structure include facilitating the task performance of groups. One example of an initiating structure behavior is meeting one-on-one with subordinates to explain expectations and goals. The final leader-focused approach is power and influence. To be most effective a leader should be able to influence others to behave in ways that are in line with the organization's mission and goals. How influential a leader can be depends on their social power or their potential to influence their subordinates. There are six bases of power: coercive power, reward power, legitimate power, expert power, referent power, and informational power. A leader can use several different tactics to influence others within an organization. These common tactics include: rational persuasion, inspirational appeal, consultation, ingratiation, exchange, personal appeal, coalition, legitimating, and pressure.\n\nOf the 3 approaches to leadership, contingency-focused approaches have been the most prevalent over the past 30 years. Contingency-focused theories base a leader's effectiveness on their ability to assess a situation and adapt their behavior accordingly. These theories assume that an effective leader can accurately \"read\" a situation and skillfully employ a leadership style that meets the needs of the individuals involved and the task at hand. A brief introduction to the most prominent contingency-focused theories will follow.\n\nFiedler's Contingency Theory holds that a leader's effectiveness depends on the interaction between their characteristics and the characteristics of the situation. Path–Goal Theory asserts that the role of the leader is to help his or her subordinates achieve their goals. To effectively do this, leaders must skillfully select from four different leadership styles to meet the situational factors. The situational factors are a product of the characteristics of subordinates and the characteristics of the environment. The Leader-Member Exchange (LMX) Model focuses on how leader–subordinate relationships develop. Generally speaking, when a subordinate performs well or when there are positive exchanges between a leader and a subordinate, their relationship is strengthened, performance and job satisfaction are enhanced, and the subordinate will feel more commitment to the leader and the organization as a whole. Vroom-Yetton-Jago Model focuses on decision making with respect to a \"feasibility set\" which is composed of the situational attributes.\n\nIn addition to the contingency-focused approaches mentioned, there has been a high degree of interest paid to three novel approaches that have recently emerged. The first is transformational leadership, which posits that there are certain leadership traits that inspire subordinates to perform beyond their capabilities. The second is transactional leadership, which is most concerned with keeping subordinates in-line with deadlines and organizational policy. This type of leader fills more of a managerial role and lacks qualities necessary to inspire subordinates and induce meaningful change. And the third is authentic leadership which is centered around empathy and a leader's values or character. If the leader understands their followers, they can inspire subordinates by cultivating a personal connection and leading them to share in the vision and goals of the team. Although there has been a limited amount of research conducted on these theories, they are sure to receive continued attention as the field of I/O psychology matures.\n\nFollower-focused approaches look at the processes by which leaders motivate followers, and lead teams to achieve shared goals. Understandably, the area of leadership motivation draws heavily from the abundant research literature in the domain of motivation in I/O psychology. Because leaders are held responsible for their followers' ability to achieve the organization's goals, their ability to motivate their followers is a critical factor of leadership effectiveness. Similarly, the area of team leadership draws heavily from the research in teams and team effectiveness in I/O psychology. Because organizational employees are frequently structured in the form of teams, leaders need to be aware of the potential benefits and pitfalls of working in teams, how teams develop, how to satisfy team members' needs, and ultimately how to bring about team effectiveness and performance.\n\nAn emerging area of I/O research in the area of team leadership is in leading virtual teams, where people in the team are geographically-distributed across various distances and sometimes even countries. While technological advances have enabled the leadership process to take place in such virtual contexts, they present new challenges for leaders as well, such as the need to use technology to build relationships with followers, and influencing followers when faced with limited (or no) face-to-face interaction.\n\nI/O psychologists are also concerned with organizational change. This effort, called organizational development (OD). Tools used to advance organization development include the survey feedback technique. The technique involves the periodic assessment (with surveys) of employee attitudes and feelings. The results are conveyed to organizational stakeholders, who may want to take the organization in a particular direction. Another tool is the team building technique. Because many if not most tasks within the organization are completed by small groups and/or teams, team building is important to organizational success. In order to enhance a team's morale and problem-solving skills, I/O psychologists help the groups to build their self-confidence, group cohesiveness, and working effectiveness.\n\nThe I/O psychology and organizational behavior have manifested some overlap. The overlap has led to some confusion regarding how the two disciplines differ. There is also much confusion about the differences between I/O psychology and human resources, or human resource management\n\nThe minimum requirement for working as an I/O psychologist is a master's degree. Normally, this degree requires about 2–3 years to complete. Of all the degrees granted in I/O psychology each year, approximately two thirds are at the master's level.\nA comprehensive list of US and Canadian master's and doctoral programs can be found at the web site of the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology (SIOP). Admission into I/O psychology PhD programs is highly competitive given that many programs accept a small number of applicants every year.\nThere are graduate degree programs in I/O psychology outside of the US and Canada. The SIOP web site also provides a comprehensive list of I/O programs in many other countries.\n\nIn Australia, Organizational Psychologists must be accredited by the Australia Psychological Society (APS). To become an Organizational Psychologist, one must meet the criteria for a general psychologist's licence: 3 years studying bachelor's degree in Psychology, 4th year Honours degree or Postgraduate Diploma in Psychology, and two-year full-time supervised practice plus 80 hours of professional development. There are other avenues available, such as a two year supervised training program after Honours (i.e. 4+2 pathway), or one year of postgraduate coursework and practical placements followed by a one year supervised training program (i.e. 5+1 pathway). After this, psychologists can elect to specialize as Organizational Psychologists.\n\nThere are many different sets of competencies for different specializations within I/O psychology and I/O psychologists are versatile behavioral scientists. For example, an I/O psychologist specializing in selection and recruiting should have expertise in finding the best talent for the organization and getting everyone on board while he or she might not need to know much about executive coaching. Some I/O psychologists specialize in specific areas of consulting whereas others tend to generalize their areas of expertise. There are basic skills and knowledge an individual needs in order to be an effective I/O psychologist, which include being an independent learner, interpersonal skills (e.g., listening skills), and general consultation skills (e.g., skills and knowledge in the problem area).\n\nAccording to the United States Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics, I/O psychology is the fastest growing occupation in the United States, based on projections between 2012 and 2022. \nIn a 2006 salary survey, the median salary for a PhD in I/O psychology was $98,000; for a master's level I/O psychologist was $72,000. The highest paid PhD I/O psychologists in private industry worked in pharmaceuticals and averaged approximately $151,000 per year; the median salary for self-employed consultants was $150,000; those employed in retail, energy, and manufacturing followed closely behind, averaging approximately $133,000. The lowest earners were found in state and local government positions, averaging approximately $77,000. In 2005, I/O psychologists whose primary responsibility is teaching at private and public colleges and universities often earn additional income from consulting with government and industry.The job opportunities have been on a steady rise for the past few years \n\nAn I/O psychologist, whether an academic, a consultant, or an employee, must maintain high ethical standards. The APA's ethical principles apply to I/O psychologists. For example, ethically, the I/O psychologist should only accept projects for which he or she is qualified. With more organizations becoming global, it is important that when an I/O psychologist works outside her or his home country, the psychologist is aware of rules, regulations, and cultures of the organizations and countries in which the psychologist works, while adhering to the ethical standards set at home.\n\n"}
{"id": "17429498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17429498", "title": "Kuhmareyi language", "text": "Kuhmareyi language\n\nKuhmareyi is one of the languages of southwestern Fars. It is a cluster of disparate dialects; the one illustrated here is the Davani dialect (Davani: \"devani\"; , transliteration: Davāni) of the village of Davan, 12 kilometers north of Kazerun city in southern Iran. Davani had an estimated 1,000 speakers in 2004.\n\nThe transcription used here is only an approximation.\n\nshort: â, a, e, i, o, u<br>\nlong: â:, ā, ē, ī, ō, ū\n\n\nDavani is ergative in past transitive constructions. For example (Persian transliterations are in UniPers):\n\nEnglish: Hasan saw Ali in the garden.<br>\nPersian: Hasan,      Ali-râ tuye bâq did.<br>\nDavani:  hasan-eš   ali-a   tu    bâγ di.\n\nInfinitive markers include \"-san\", \"-tan\", \"-dan\", \"-ðan\".\n\nThe suffix \"-aku\" makes nouns definite. For example:\n\n\"bard\" \"stone\" → \"bard-aku\" \"the stone\"\n\nThe plural is marked by the suffix \"-gal\". \"-u\" is exceptionally used for \"man\". For example:\n\n\"sēv\" \"apple\" → \"sēv-gal\" \"apples\"<br>\n\"merd\" \"man\" → \"merd-u\" \"men\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3912775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3912775", "title": "Kurdish literature", "text": "Kurdish literature\n\nKurdish literature (in Kurmanji Kurdish language: \"\", in Sorani Kurdish language: وێژەی کوردی or ئەدەبی کوردی) is literature written in the Kurdish language. Literary Kurdish works have been written in each of the four main dialects: Zazaki, Gorani, Kurmanji and Sorani. Ali Hariri (1009-1079) is one of the first well-known poets who wrote in Kurdish. He was from the Hakkari region.\n\nThe Ayyubid Sultanate also saw a Golden Age of Kurdish Literature and was active also outside of Kurdish Mainland. However some Ayyubid Sultans and Emirs also made Arabic Literature or translated them.\n\nSome of the earliest texts written in Kurdish are in the Hawrami dialects. The earliest of these are the classical poems attributed to Elder Shalyar the son of Jamasb, an ancient Zoroastrian priest who lived in the Horaman region. His works are said to date back to several centuries before Christ, as far back as 600 BC. His literary works are collected in what is called \"marefat\".\n\nOne of the first literary works in Kurdish is a poem from the 7th century, written in the Hawremani dialect. The poem, called Hurmizgan, talks about invading Muslims. \nSome of the well-known Gorani language poets and writers are Parishan Dinawari (d. ca. 1395), Mustafa Besarani (1642–1701), Muhammad Kandulayi (late 17th century), Khana Qubadi (1700–1759), Shayda Awrami (1784–1852) and Mastoureh Ardalan) (1805–1848). Zazaki and Gorani which was the literary languages of much of what today is known as Iraqi, Turkish and Iranian Kurdistan, is classified as a member of the Zaza–Gorani branch of the Northwestern Iranian languages.\n\nA Yezidi religious work, the \"Meshefa Reş\", is in a classic form of Kurmanji and could well have been written sometime in the 13th century. It is held to have been written by Sheikh Hasan (born 1195 CE), a nephew of Sheikh Adi Ibn Musafir, the prophet of the Yezidis. Based on this date, \"Meshef\" can be considered as the oldest piece of prose in Kurmanji.\n\nThe Kurdish poet Muhammad Faqi Tayran (1590–1660) collected many folk stories in his book \"In the Words of the Black Horse\". He also wrote a book of Sufi verse, \"The Story of Shaykh of San’ân\". Faqi-Tayran also had versified correspondence with the poet Malaye Jaziri. Some of the well-known Kurmanji poets and writers are listed below.\n\n\nThe drama of \"Mem û Zîn\" (Mam and Zin) (Memî Alan û Zînî Buhtan), was written in 1694 by Ahmad Khani (1651–1707) from Hakkari, is a rich source of Kurdish culture, history and mythology. This work also emphasizes the national aspirations of the Kurdish people. \nMam of the Alan clan and Zin of Buhtan family are two lovers from \"Alan\" and \"Butan\" families, respectively. Their union is blocked by a person named \"Bakr\" of the Bakran clan. Mam eventually dies during a complicated conspiracy by Bakr. When Zin receives the news, she also dies while mourning the death of Mam on his grave. The immense grief leads to her death and she is buried next to Mam. The news of the death of Mam and Zin, spreads quickly among the people of \"Jazira Butan\". Then Bakr's role in the tragedy is revealed, and he takes sanctuary between the two graves. He is eventually captured and slain by the people of Jazira. A thorn bush soon grows out of Bakr’s blood, sending its roots of malice deep into the earth between the lovers’ graves, separating the two even after their death.\n\nThe first Kurmanji newspaper, titled \"Kurdistan\", was published in Cairo in 1898. The Kurds in the Soviet Union, despite their small numbers, had the opportunity of elementary and university education in Kurdish and for many decades. This in turn led to an appearance of several Kurdish writers and researchers among them. The literary works of Qanate Kurdo and Arab Shamilov are the well known examples of Kurdish prose in the 20th century. The first modern Latin-based alphabet for Kurdish was created by Jaladat Ali Badirkhan, the poet and writer who fled Turkey in the 1920s and spent the rest of his life in Syria. \nSince the 1970s, there has been a massive effort on the part of Kurds in Turkey to write and to create literary works in Kurdish. The amount of printed material during the last three decades has increased enormously. Many of these activities were centered in Europe particularly Sweden and Germany where many of the immigrant Kurds are living. There are a number of Kurdish publishers in Sweden, partly supported by the Swedish Government. More than two hundred Kurdish titles have appeared in the 1990s. Some of the well known contemporary Kurdish writers from Turkey are Firat Cewerî, Mehmed Uzun, Abdusamet Yigit, Mehmed Emin Bozarslan, Mahmud Baksi, Hesenê Metê,Yekta Uzunoglu (Geylani), Arjen Arî and Rojen Barnas. \n\nThe main academic center for Kurdish literature and language in Europe is the Kurdish Institute of Paris (\"Institut Kurde de Paris\") founded in 1983. A large number of Kurdish intellectuals and writers from Europe, America and Australia are contributing to the efforts carried out by the Institute for reviving Kurdish language and literature.\n\nIn contrast to Kurmanji, literary works in Sorani appeared only in the late 18th century and early 19th century. Nalî was the first to write poetry in this dialect. and Haji Qadir Koyi of \"Koy Sanjaq\" in central Kurdistan (1817–1897), and Sheikh Reza Talabani (1835–1909) also wrote in Sorani dialect after Nalî. The closeness of the two dialects of Sorani and Kurmanji is cited as one of the reasons for the late start in Sorani literature, as well as the fact that during 15th to 19th century, there was a rich literary tradition in the Kurmanji dialect.\n\nDespite its late start, Sorani literature progressed with a rapid pace, especially during the early 20th century and after recognition of Sorani as the main language of Kurds in Iraq. The language rights of Kurds were guaranteed by the British and school education in Kurdish started in earnest in the early 1920s. It is estimated that almost 80% of the existing Kurdish literature in the 20th century has been written in Sorani dialect.\n\nIncreased contact with the Arab world and subsequently western world led to a translation movement among Kurds in Iraqi Kurdistan in the early 20th century. Many classical literary works of Europe were translated into Sorani, including the works of Pushkin, Schiller, Byron and Lamartine.\n\nKurdish is one of the official languages of Iraq and the central government assistance has been instrumental in supporting publication of books and magazines in Kurdish. In the 1970s, an organization called \"Korî Zaniyarî Kurd\" (the Kurdish Science Council) was established for academic studies in Kurdish language and literature. It was centered in Baghdad. Kurdish language departments were also opened in some Iraqi universities including Baghdad University, University of Salahaddin and University of Sulaimani. Well-known Sorani poets include Abdulla Goran (founder of the free verse poetry in Kurdish), Sherko Bekas, Abdulla Pashew, Qanih. Many Kurdish writers have written novels, plays and literary analysis including Piramerd, Alaaddin Sajadi, Bakhtyar Ali, Ibrahim Ahmad, Karim Hisami and Hejar.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48571940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48571940", "title": "Leymann Inventory of Psychological Terror", "text": "Leymann Inventory of Psychological Terror\n\nThe Swedish psychologist and university professor Heinz Leymann developed the LIPT questionnaire. LIPT stands for \"Leymann Inventory of Psychological Terror\".\n\nThe LIPT questionnaire lists 45 mobbing actions at the workplace. A person is regarded as being bullied if one or more of the 45 actions happen at least once per week over a period of at least one year. Alternative mobbing definitions require a shorter period of at least 3–6 months and the frequent occurrence of more than one action.\n\nThe effects of the actions on the mobbing victim are divided into five categories:\n\n\nThe 45 mobbing actions are derived by Leymann from 300 individual interviews in the years of 1981 to 1984. After 1984 the interviews did not find further actions and ended.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25020773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25020773", "title": "Malbars", "text": "Malbars\n\nMalbars or Malabars are an ethnic group of South Indian Tamil origin in Réunion, a French island in the Southwest Indian Ocean, The Malbars constitute 25% of the population of Réunion and are estimated to be around 180,000.\n\nThere have been people of South Indian origin on the island since the 17th century, and those were mostly from Pondicherry. Most were originally brought in as indentured labourers in the second half of the 19th century and were mostly South Indian Tamils . Since then, the Malbars have developed some patterns of behaviour that are not quite those of their ancestors from Tamil Nadu nor those of the other inhabitants of Réunion.\n\nMalbars is derived from the word Malabar, a term which was used often by the French and other Westerners to refer to all Southern Indians, including the Tamils, Malayalees, Telugus and Kannadigas. This term is based on the Malabar region of the present state of Kerala in India This term, applied by the French to Tamil labourers coming to Réunion, has been kept by the latter and others on the island to label their own identity.\n\nIndian workers came to Réunion from South India, mostly from French settlements in Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry, and Karaikal. Most of these immigrants were ritually low in the caste system. Hard living conditions at home were the main reason behind their departure to La Réunion. The immigration of indentured workers from South India started in 1827 but it was only after 1848 that indentured immigration began on a big scale.\n\nThe French government in Réunion made the first Malbars become Christian. However, many Malbars were only nominally Christian. The Tamil language was lost to language shift.\n\nThe Malbars desire to learn their ancestors' culture, and started studying their language and religions especially from Tamil Nadu. Recently many Malbars, particularly those of upper and middle classes, have started to become completely Hindu rather than nominally Christian.\n\nThey also now wanted to translate their newly acquired civic and political rights into a gradual and increasing participation in local and other elections. A sit-in protest was organised to support Sri Lanka Tamils by the Réunionnais organisation \"TAMIL SANGAM\" presided by \"Dr Shanmugam\". Hundreds of Tamils and non Tamils protested against the genocide of Sri Lanka Tamils.\n\nA genetic study has shown that the majority of the Indian origins of Malbars lie in the South-east of India. A significantly larger proportion comes from Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu.\nThe study also showed that 15-20% of the origins of Malbars come from India. Less than 1% comes from Europe.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15936418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15936418", "title": "Malgbe language", "text": "Malgbe language\n\nMalgbe is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in northern Cameroon and southwestern Chad. Dialects are Douguia, Dro, Malgbe, Mara, and Walia.\n"}
{"id": "1096584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1096584", "title": "Masalit language", "text": "Masalit language\n\nMasalit (autonym \"Masala/Masara\") () is a Maban language spoken by the Masalit people in western Darfur, Sudan.\n\nThe Masalit language has two sociolects: \"heavy\" Masalit, spoken by higher-ranking people and those in the countryside, with a complicated agglutinative grammar, and \"light\", spoken particularly in the home and in the market, with a somewhat simplified grammatical structure and many borrowings from Sudanese Arabic, the regional lingua franca and language of education.\n\nA group of Masalit known as the \"Massalat\" moved west into central-eastern Chad and have almost entirely switched to Arabic. Their ethnic population in Chad was as of the 1993 census, but only 10 speakers of their language were reported in 1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "53061930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53061930", "title": "Mikrani", "text": "Mikrani\n\nMikrani (; Devanagari: मिकरानी, ) are a Muslim community found in the Sarlahi and Rautahat districts of Nepal, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat in India, Rajshahi, Gaibandha, Dinajpur, Old Dhaka in Bangladesh as well as in Pakistan and Afghanistan. They are also known as Mukeri, Makrani, Mekrani, Barmaki, Ranki and Muzkeri. They belong to the Muker tribe and the Mikrani title is mostly used in Nepal, India and Bangladesh while some also use Mukeri or Miya Mukeri.\n\nThe word \"Muker\" is said to have derived from Arabic \"makeri\", meaning those who helped in the construction of Mecca. They were initially called \"Makkai\", which referred to residents of Mecca, which was later corrupted to \"makeri\". They are divided into two endogamous groups, the Mukeri and Shaikh Banjara. They rank themselves as Shaikh. The Shaikh Banjara are further divided into the Mikrani, Muqri, Barmaki, Siddiqui and Shaikh. Different groups have different traditions to their origin.\n\nThe Mukeri or Muker in Bihar and Nepal claim to be descendants of early Arab settlers, whose initial area of settlement in South Asia was the Makran region. According to their tradition they arrived in Bihar during the period of Khalji ruler, and were initially known as Makrani, which was eventually shortened to Muker. They are found in Sarlahi district (Malangwa, Bhadsar, Masaili, Khutauna, Pakadi, Murtiya, Parsa, Haripur, Lalbandi, Hariyon, Ishworpur villages) Rautahat district (Gaur and kattarban villages). They speak Urdu, Nepali and the local Angika language. Those who lives in Bangladesh speaks in Bengali. Sarlahi district is the district of Nepal, where majority of Mikrani community lives.\n\nThe Muker were traditionally businessman, moving from place to place, selling goods. They historically traded scented oil, aromatic goods, food grains, tobacco, leather products and cattle. Many are now settled agriculturalists. The community are Muslim of the Sunni sect. Some of the were the Islamic Dayee (inviter), a caller who notifies the others from dangers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11471748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11471748", "title": "National Administrative Department of Statistics", "text": "National Administrative Department of Statistics\n\nThe National Administrative Department of Statistics (), commonly referred to as DANE, is the Colombian Administrative Department responsible for the planning, compilation, analysis and dissemination of the official statistics of Colombia. DANE is responsible for conducting the National Population and Housing census every ten years, among several other studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "29015808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29015808", "title": "National Statistics Institute (Chile)", "text": "National Statistics Institute (Chile)\n\nThe National Statistics Institute of Chile (, INE) is a state-run organization of the Government of Chile, created in the second half of the 19th century and tasked with performing a general census of population and housing, then collecting, producing and publishing official demographic statistics of people in Chile, in addition to other specific tasks entrusted to it by law.\n\nIts antecedents lie in the initiatives of president Manuel Bulnes and his minister, Manuel Rengifo, to draw up the second population census and obtain statistical data of the country. By Decree No. 18 March 27, 1843, the Office of Statistics was created, Ministry of the Interior to provide knowledge of the departments and provinces. It put the INE in charge of producing the national population census every 10 years, as required by the Census Act of July 12, 1843.\n\nLaw No. 187 of September 17, 1847 established the office as a permanent body of the state. By 1853, it was legally required that each section chief of the ministries collect and submit data to the Bureau of Statistics. Subsequently and by various legal modifications, it was called \"Dirección General de Estadísticas\" (1927–1953), \"Servicio Nacional de Estadísticas y Censos\" (1953–1960), \"Dirección de Estadísticas y Censos\" (1960–1970). It has called by its current name since 1970, and it has been under the Ministry of Economy since 1927.\n\nThe first official publication, National Repertoire (\"Repertorio Nacional\"), was released in 1850. It was followed by the Statistical Yearbook of the Republic of Chile (\"Anuario Estadístico de la República de Chile\") published without interruption from 1837 to 1866.\n\nIn 1882 they published \"Statistical and Geographical Synopsis of Chile\" (\"Sinopsis Estadística y Geografía de Chile\"). In 1911, they began publishing independent volumes of statistics by subject.\n"}
{"id": "52320880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52320880", "title": "Population of San Marino", "text": "Population of San Marino\n\nThe population of San Marino is roughly 32,000 people.\n\nSan Marino has a Population density of 529.7 people per square km.\n\nOnly 5.81% of the population lives in rural areas, the other 94.19% live in an urban area.\n\nSan Marino has a population growth rate of 0.59% (2015)\n\nSan Marino is the 15th most populous state in Southern Europe, and the 216th most populous state.\nSan Marino is the 3rd most dense state in Southern Europe, and the 16th most dense state in the world.\nSan Marino has the 3rd highest population growth rate in Southern Europe, and the 148th highest population growth rate in the world.\nSan Marino has the 2nd highest percentage of urban population in Southern Europe, and the 94th highest percentage worldwide.\nSan Marino has the 4th highest growth rate among its urban population in Southern Europe, and the 162nd highest growth rate worldwide.\nSan Marino has the 13th highest percentage of rural population in Southern Europe, and the 94th highest percentage worldwide.\nSan Marino has the 3rd highest growth rate among its rural population in Southern Europe, and the 116th highest percentage worldwide.\n"}
{"id": "23907834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23907834", "title": "Rawal", "text": "Rawal\n\nRawal (also spelled Raval) or Raol originally is a (regional) variation -like Rawat- of the Hindi princely ruler title Ra(d)ja(h) (literally \"king\") used in some princely states in Rajputana and Western India (notably Gujarat), and is now also used as a caste designation or surname by several communities in Southern Asia. Rawal caste is mentioned at 50th number in the scheduled caste list of Rajasthan.\n\nThe sovereign king of Jumla Kingdom and founder of the Kallala dynasty, Balirāja took the royal title of \"Rāulā\".\n\nNotable (but non-salute) states using this title for their ruling prince were, both under the colonial Mahi Kantha Agency (in the third -high- of seven classes of states) and in present Gujarat :\n\nThe title \"Maharawal\" (\"Great Rawal\") derives from the Sanskrit \"Maharajakula\", and was used by the Guhila rulers in the 13th century. This 'Western' equivalent of the higher (gradually deflated) Hindi title Maharaja (literally 'great king') was notably used by three salute states in Rajputana (presently in Rajasthan), all entitled to a (high-ranking) Hereditary gun salute of 15-guns :\nand one in Gujarat, entitled to a (rather low-ranking) Hereditary salute of 9-guns (11-guns personal) :\n\nAs a surname, \"Rawal\" is found among multiple communities in India and Nepal:\n\nPeople with the title or surname Rawal include (\"in alphabetical order\"):\n\n\nGroups of people\n\nPlaces\n\n"}
{"id": "22414996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22414996", "title": "Reactions from India and the Indian diaspora to Slumdog Millionaire", "text": "Reactions from India and the Indian diaspora to Slumdog Millionaire\n\nThe 2008 film Slumdog Millionaire has been a subject of discussion among a variety of people in India and the Indian diaspora. Some film critics have responded positively to the film. At the same time, others objected to issues such as Jamal's use of British English or the fact that similar films by Indian filmmakers have not received equal recognition. A few notable filmmakers such as Aamir Khan and Priyadarshan have been critical of the film. Author and critic Salman Rushdie argues that it has \"a patently ridiculous conceit.\" \nThe film received positive reviews from many Indian film critics, though some were negative and others mixed. According to \"All Bollywood\", the film has an average rating of 81% based on an aggregate of 25 reviews from Indian film critics. It was praised by Nikhat Kazmi of the \"Times of India\" who referred to \"Slumdog Millionaire\" as \"a piece of riveting cinema, meant to be savoured as a Cinderella-like fairy tale, with the edge of a thriller and the vision of an artist.\" She also argued against criticism of the film, stating: \"it was never meant to be a documentary on the down and out in Dharavi. And it isn't.\" Renuka Vyavahare of \"Indiatimes\" suggested that \"the film is indeed very Indian\" and that it is \"one of the best English films set in India and revolving around the country’s most popular metropolis Mumbai.\" Kaveree Bamzai of \"India Today\" called the film \"feisty\" and argued that it is \"Indian at its core and Western in its technical flourish.\" Anand Giridharadas argued in \"The New York Times\" that the film has a \"freshness\" which \"portrays a changing India, with great realism, as something India long resisted being: a land of self-makers, where a scruffy son of the slums can, solely of his own effort, hoist himself up, flout his origins, break with fate.\" Giridharadas also called the film \"a tribute to the irrepressible self.\" Poorna Shetty stated in \"The Guardian\" that \"Boyle's depiction of Mumbai is spot on.\" She further stated that the film displays the \"human aspect of the slums and the irrepressible energy and life force of the place\" and offers \"a breathing snapshot of the city that is always stripped of its warmth when depicted in the news.\" Khalid Mohamed gave the film a rave review and a 5-star rating.\n\nOthers were more critical of the film. One common complaint was directed towards Patel's use of British English which was never explained within the context of the film. In referring to this issue, Mukul Kesavan of \"The Telegraph (Kolkata)\" stated that the film is \"a hybrid so odd\" (due to the decision to have the first third in Hindi and the remainder in English) \"that it becomes hard for the Indian viewer to ... suspend disbelief\" and that \"the transition from child actors who in real life are slum children to young actors who are, just as clearly, middle-class anglophones is so abrupt and inexplicable that it subverts the ‘realism’ of the brilliantly shot squalor in which their lives play out.\" Furthermore, Gautaman Bhaskaran argued that although the film was shot in India, it is not Indian in character. He questioned the \"euphoria in India\" after the film's release there, arguing that with a few exceptions, \"there is nothing Indian about this film.\" He concluded that the film has \"very little substance\" and is \"superficial and insensitive.\"\n\nA more contentious argument lay in the assertion that Indians have already made better and more realistic films about poverty and corruption in India. Subhash K. Jha (author of \"The Essential Guide to Bollywood\") remarked that this territory has already been covered by Indian filmmakers (Mira Nair in \"Salaam Bombay\" and Satyajit Ray in the Apu Trilogy). Similarly, Soutik Biswas of the BBC argued that \"Slumdog Millionaire\" is an imitation of Indian films that have been \"routinely ignored,\" suggesting that \"if you are looking for gritty realism set in the badlands of Mumbai, order a DVD of a film called \"Satya\" by Ramgopal Verma. The 1998 feature on an immigrant who is sucked into Mumbai's colourful underworld makes \"Slumdog\" look like a slick, uplifting MTV docu-drama.\" Matthew Schneeberger, an American working as a journalist in India, opined: \n\nFinally, a fourth argument is that a \"happy ending\" film about slum-dwellers is inherently misleading. For example, Sudip Mazumdar of \"Newsweek\" wrote:\n\nIn an interview after the Oscars, actor and filmmaker Aamir Khan argued that he didn't \"see Slumdog ... as an Indian film. I think it is a film about India like \"Gandhi\" (that) was made by Sir Richard Attenborough. Similarly, \"Slumdog\"... is about India but it is not an Indian film.\" However, in another interview, he did praise India's Oscar-winning Resul Pookutty in the interview as well as India's Oscar-winners A. R. Rahman and Gulzar in his personal blog. Director Deepa Mehta also noted in an interview that while \"Slumdog Millionaire's\" Oscar win was, \"good for the team, the film is an OK one...it's more a Western than Indian film.\" \n\nShahrukh Khan, the film's producers' first choice of actor to play game show host Prem Kumar, defended it, stating \"I think it's really nice that it will open doors for people to understand that there is a lot of visual appeal to India. I hear a lot of people saying that India has been shown in bad light. But then my logic to everyone is that why is it that somebody comes from outside and makes a film like \"Gandhi\" and \"Slumdog\"...all we can say about it is that it is showing India in a poor light?\"\n\nMahesh Manjrekar who portrayed the gangster Javed in \"Slumdog Millionaire\" commented on the fact that \"Taare Zameen Par\" (released overseas by Disney as \"Like Stars on Earth\"), India's submission for best foreign film, failed to make the short list of nominations and was frequently compared with \"Slumdog Millionaire\" in the Indian media. He stated that \"Slumdog Millionaire\" \"was an amusing phenomenon! Everybody came out of the woodwork all of a sudden. It was humorous. It was like a team had won a match and the extras in the stand were dancing more than the actual Team XI. But, Slumdog... did some good things for us. It was more Hindi than any of our Hindi films. If any Indian filmmaker would’ve made it, the critics would’ve termed it a ‘convenient film’. I’m sad that Aamir [Khan]’s \"Taare Zameen Par\" didn’t make it to the final round of the Oscars. I thought it to be way better than Slumdog..., without taking away anything from Boyle and the kids. But, Indian movies are underestimated there.\" Filmmaker Mrinal Sen also questioned whether winning the Oscar qualifies \"Slumdog Millionaire\" as a good film, stating that other great cinematic performers and filmmakers have not won the Oscar.\n\nDirector and filmmaker Priyadarshan criticized \"Slumdog Millionaire\" as a \"mediocre version of those commercial films about estranged brothers and childhood sweethearts that Salim-Javed used to write so brilliantly in the 1970s.\" He also stated that he viewed the film at the Toronto Film Festival and that \"the Westerners loved it. All the Indian[s] hated it. The West loves to see us as a wasteland, filled with horror stories of exploitation and degradation. But is that all there is to our beautiful city of Mumbai?\"\n\nFilmmaker Aadesh Shrivastava claimed that its release in the United States led to the word \"slumdog\" being used as a slur against Indian Americans, criticizing the positive reaction by some Indians towards what he regarded as a film that directly attacks and insults India.\n\nAuthor and critic Salman Rushdie has responded negatively to both the film \"Slumdog Millionaire\" and the novel on which it is based, \"Q & A\". In his essay on film adaptations, \"A Fine Pickle,\" Rushdie argues that the plot of Swarup's novel is \"a patently ridiculous conceit, the kind of fantasy writing that gives fantasy writing a bad name. It is a plot device faithfully preserved by the film-makers, and lies at the heart of the weirdly renamed \"Slumdog Millionaire\". As a result the film, too, beggars belief.\" He made similar statements about \"Slumdog Millionaire\" in a talk given at Emory University, where he is a professor, arguing that its plot \"piles impossibility on impossibility,\" and in an earlier interview with \"The New York Times\", where he conceded that he found the film \"visually brilliant. But I have problems with the story line... It just couldn’t happen. I’m not averse to magic realism but there has to be a level of plausibility, and I felt there were three or four moments in the film where the storyline breached that rule.\" Rushdie also blasted Boyle's admission that he made the film in part because he was unfamiliar with India, challenging Boyle to imagine \"an Indian film director making a movie about New York low-life and saying that he had done so because he knew nothing about New York and had indeed never been there. He would have been torn limb from limb by critical opinion. But for a first world director to say that about the third world is considered praiseworthy, an indication of his artistic daring. The double standards of post-colonial attitudes have not yet wholly faded away.\"\n\nSome critics have suggested that the film is an imitation of \"homegrown\" Indian products. Radha Chadha, co-author (with Paul Husband) of \"The Cult of the Luxury Brand: Inside Asia's Love Affair with Luxury\", argued that while \"Slumdog Millionaire\" is entertaining, it is still a \"masala film,\" the kind of Bollywood product which Indians grow up watching. As to its popularity in the West, she further suggested that what is \"ordinary\" (in terms of film genre) for an Indian audience \"is extraordinary for the world\" and that \"the mesmerizing soft power of Bollywood which has kept a billion Indians enthralled for decades is touching the rest of the world.\" Priya Joshi, an associate professor of English at Temple University, argued that the film's indebtedness to Bollywood cinema runs far deeper than the happy ending: \"In the same way that \"Cinema Paradiso\" paid homage to the transformative power of Hollywood movies of the 1940s, \"Slumdog\" testifies to the power of Bollywood's blockbusters from the 1970s, and it's no accident that the first question on the quiz show is about the 1973 hit \"Zanjeer\".\" Ananda Mitra, professor of communication at Wake Forest University, described \"Slumdog Millionaire\" as a modern-day retelling of 1970s Bollywood films, citing Nasir Hussain's \"Yaadon Ki Baraat\" (1973) in particular.\n\nOthers have echoed the critiques of Mukul Kesavan and Aamir Khan above concerning language use. For example, Smitha Radhakrishnan, assistant professor of sociology at Wellesley College, noted in UCLA's online Asia Pacific Arts journal that although the film offers \"an action-packed, devastating, intriguing, and oddly beautiful world,\" it also contains notable \"slip-ups,\" of which the \"most glaring was the language. Despite the plausible explanation that Jamal and Salim picked up English, posing as tour guides at the Taj Mahal, it is highly implausible that they would come out of that experience speaking perfect British English, as Dev Patel does in portraying the grown-up Jamal. It's highly implausible that he would speak to Latika and Salim in English as an adult too.\"\n\nProfessor Vrinda Nabar, the former chair of English at the University of Mumbai, argued that the film ignores the \"complexity\" of Mumbai as \"a city in which sensitivity coexists with despair, commitment with indifference, activism with inaction, and humanism with the inhumane.\" Shyamal Sengupta, a professor of film studies at the Whistling Woods International Institute for Films, Media, Animationa and Media Arts in Mumbai, criticized the film for its stereotypical portrayals of Indians by calling it a \"white man's imagined India. It's not quite snake charmers, but it's close. It's a poverty tour.\" Matias Echanove and Rahul Srivastava noted critically in The New York Times that the film misrepresents and stereotypes the Dharavi slum in Mumbai.\n\nProfessor Mitu Sengupta, in the Department of Politics & Public Administration at Ryerson University in Toronto, criticized the way in which Mumbai's poor were depicted, stating:\n"}
{"id": "23636365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23636365", "title": "Regional discrimination in China", "text": "Regional discrimination in China\n\nRegional discrimination in China or regionalism is overt prejudice against people based on their places of origin, ethnicity, sub-ethnicity, language, dialect, or their current provincial zones. China's sheer size and population renders much demographic understanding tied to locality, and there is often little life movement outside of a citizen's province of birth. Historically, internal migration has been tightly controlled, and many barriers to free movement exist today. Treatment of ethnic minorities and Han Chinese regional groups can hinge on preferential assumptions based on places of upbringing, and is often most pronounced towards those born external to urban zones.\n\nWhen Chinese migrant settle in a new region, local residents can develop social attitudes and prejudgments based on the newcomer's place of birth. If a large volume of new residents relocate from a particular area, regionalism can manifest as sub-ethnic bias and provoke social tension.\n\nCurrently, the CCP defines regionalism as adverse action or negative attitudes against another based on their home province. The Chinese state acknowledges this as a detrimental yet pervasive prejudice.\n\nRegional discrimination there can also be discrimination against person or a group of people who speak a particular language dialect.\n\nThe \"hukou\" household registry is a system that has been criticized as an entrenchment of social strata, especially as between rural and urban residency status, and is regarded by some as a form of caste system.\n\nRegionalism has long been part of society in China. Generally, southern China is thought to be more regionalist than northern China. The Hakka people, despite being considered Han Chinese. This is thought to have led to various conflict such as the Taiping Rebellion and Hakka-Punti Wars.\n\nA university usually sets a fixed admission quota for each province, with a higher number of students coming from its home province. As the number and the quality of universities vary greatly across China, it is argued that students face discrimination during the admission process based on their region. For example, compared to Beijing, Henan Province has fewer universities per capita. Therefore, an applicant in Henan needs a significantly-higher score than a Beijing counterpart to attend the same university. That is similar to regional universities in other countries that receive subsidies from regional governments in addition to or in place of the national government's funding.\n\nIn recent years, varied admission standards have led some families to relocate for the sole purpose of advancing their children's chances of entering university.\n\nIn China's early days, the application of civil servant was offered mainly to the local Hukou (household registration). The residence registration normally appears on personal identification documents and has led many employers and local governments to discriminate based on the permanent residence of applicants. For example, the Beijing government had a hiring policy that restricted non-residents of the city to work in only 12 out of 204 types of jobs.\n\nAfter the Communist Party took power of Mainland China, the Chinese government began using the family register system to control the movement of people between urban and rural areas. Individuals were broadly categorised as \"rural\" or \"urban\" workers. Urban dwellers enjoyed a range of social, economic and cultural benefits, and China's 800 million rural residents were treated as second-class citizens.\n\nThe millions of people who have left village life remain stuck at the margins of urban society and have been blamed for issues of rising crime and unemployment. Under pressure from their cities' citizens, regional governments continue to impose discriminatory rules. For example, the children of \"Nong Min Gong\" (rural workers) are not allowed to enter city schools. They must live with their grandparents or uncles to go to their local hometown schools. They are called home-staying children by Chinese governments. In 2005, Chinese researchers reported that there are about 130 million home-staying children living away from their parents.\n\nAs a result of unbalanced economic development, unfair discrimination usually follows the specific regional stereotyping held by a society.\n\nMany rural farmers and migrant workers from Henan suffer abusive consequences from the privileged state system and media portrayal. The reasons for discrimination include having the largest farmer population in China, the huge number of rural workers migrating to cities, and the continuous emigration of refugees and victims from natural calamities and political tragedies in the 20th century.\n\nBecause Beijing residents enjoy the privileges powered by central authorities, anti-discrimination advocates consider them as vested beneficiaries. Therefore, they suffer from hostilities and disdain by people from other regions in China. The more flaunt and politically connected Beijingers also look down on and discriminate against migrants.\n\nAs migrants, most from southeastern or central China, flow increasingly into Shanghai, they are often blamed for the rising crime and unemployment. They are often attracted by the Shanghai hukou for its convenience and social benefits. Consequently, sometimes Shanghai residents are also despised and discriminated against by people from rural regions.\n\nPeople from the provinces and autonomous zones outside Guangdong Province, who are predominantly Mandarin-speaking and have no knowledge of indigenous languages such as Cantonese, Teochew, or Hakka, are called \"北佬\" or \"北姑\" (literally, \"Northern guys\" or \"Northern sluts\"). In particular, in the early 1980s, Guangdong saw a massive influx of out-of-province workers who did not have the habit of taking showers on a regular basis, who were especially socially distanced. Also, they were seen as not really Cantonese people or \"punti\", as many of them considered it unnecessary to learn Cantonese and so did not bother. Differences on issues related to Hong Kong and Guangdong has also triggered ethnic tensions.\n\nThere is also discrimination against the native dialects/languages of Guangdong with one example of a school in Guangzhou introducing a Cantonese textbook into classes only to be accused of \"promoting separatism\" by some northerners. The project was shut down by local authorities because of the controversy . The suppression of the Cantonese language as well as the mass migration of non-Cantonese speaking people in to the area, (only about half of Guangzhou's population are Cantonese natives, in recent times) have caused some Cantonese enthusiasts to accuse the local authorities of wanting to commit \"cultural genocide\" of the Cantonese language.\n\nBesides that, there is also discriminatory laws that require southern provinces in general to have to pay fines at higher rates(in relation to local income levels) for going against China's family planning policies, than their northern counterparts \n\nIn both special administrative regions of China, (Hong Kong and Macau) some people discriminate against the Mainland Chinese by calling call them \"dai luk lou,\", as they are from the mainland.\nSome mainlanders discriminate back and call Hong Kongers \"British dogs\"\n\n"}
{"id": "56117051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56117051", "title": "Riddles (Scandinavian)", "text": "Riddles (Scandinavian)\n\nRiddles (Old Norse, Icelandic and Faroese \"gáta\", pl. \"gátur\"; Bokmål and Nynorsk \"gåte\", pl. \"gåter\"; Danish \"gåde\", pl. \"gåder\"; Swedish \"gåta\", pl. \"gåtor\") are widely attested in post-medieval Scandinavian languages, though the traditional, oral riddle fell out of widespread use during the later twentieth century, being replaced by other oral-literary forms, and by other tests of wit such as quizzes.\n\nFew riddles are attested from medieval Scandinavia (by contrast with the numerous Anglo-Saxon riddles in the quite closely connected literature of medieval England), although Norse mythology does attest to a number of other wisdom-contests, usually involving the god Óðinn. Almost all the surviving medieval Scandinavian riddles occur in one section of the Icelandic \"Hervarar saga ok Heiðreks\", in which the god Óðinn propounds around 37 riddles (depending on the manuscript), though a riddle also appears in \"Þjalar-Jóns saga\". Unlike the Old English riddles, the riddles in \"Hervarar saga\" have a fairly tight stanzaic form, often with formulaic phrases like \"hvat er þat undra, er ek úti sá | fyrir Dellings durum?\" (\"what wonder is that, which I saw outside, before the doors of Dellingr?\"). The riddles in \"Heiðreks saga\" provide insights into Norse mythology, medieval Scandinavian social norms, and rarely attested poetic forms. They were also the subject of a seventeenth-century commentary by Björn Jónsson á Skarðsá.\n\nOne, about a sow with an unborn litter, is paralleled as the Anglo-Saxon poet Aldhelm's enigma 'De scrofa pregnante'. But only two seem to reflect the stock of folk-riddles known from more widely in Europe. One is an example of the famous cow-riddle:\n\nThe cow has four udders, four legs, two horns, two back legs, and one tail.\n\nThe other is the so-called \"Óðinn riddle\", which is a variant of the international Rider-and-horse riddle:\n\nBecoming more widely known in the early modern period through printed editions of the saga, this riddle entered oral tradition. A modern Swedish children's variant of the same runs \"vad har tre ögon, tio ben och en svans?\" (\"what has three eyes, ten legs and a tail?\"). Indeed, the whole riddle-contest in \"Heiðreks saga\" seems to have become the basis for a Faroese ballad, \"Gátu ríma\" ('riddle ballad'), first attested from nineteenth-century oral tradition.\n\nWith the advent of print in the West, collections of riddles and similar kinds of questions began to be published. A large number of riddle collections were printed in the German-speaking world and, partly under German influence, in Scandinavia. Scandinavian riddles have also been extensively collected from oral tradition. Key collections and studies include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36829950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36829950", "title": "Romani people in Austria", "text": "Romani people in Austria\n\nThe Romani are an ethnic group that has lived in Austria since the Middle Ages. According to the 2001 census, there were 6,273 Romani in Austria or less than 0.1% of the population. Unofficial estimations count between 10,000 and 25,000. Most indigenous Romani people in Austria belong to the Burgenland-Roma Group, in East-Austria. The Majority live in the State of Burgenland, in the City of Oberwart and in villages next to the District of Oberwart. The Burgenland-Roma speak the Vlax Romani language.\n\nIn Upper Austria there are also some Sinti families. 80% of the Sinti speak the Sinte Romani dialect of the Romani language.\n\nSince 1960, there are also a significant Roma population which hails originally from former yugoslavian countries, especially from Serbia (Gurbeti and Kalderash Roma-Groups) and Ashkali from Kosovo.\n\nThe Romani people originate from the Northern India, presumably from the northwestern Indian states Rajasthan and Punjab.\n\nThe linguistic evidence has indisputably shown that roots of Romani language lie in India: the language has grammatical characteristics of Indian languages and shares with them a big part of the basic lexicon, for example, body parts or daily routines.\n\nMore exactly, Romani shares the basic lexicon with Hindi and Punjabi. It shares many phonetic features with Marwari, while its grammar is closest to Bengali.\n\nGenetic findings in 2012 suggest the Romani originated in northwestern India and migrated as a group.\nAccording to a genetic study in 2012, the ancestors of present scheduled tribes and scheduled caste populations of northern India, traditionally referred to collectively as the Ḍoma, are the likely ancestral populations of modern European Roma.\n\nIn February 2016, during the International Roma Conference, the Indian Minister of External Affairs stated that the people of the Roma community were children of India. The conference ended with a recommendation to the Government of India to recognize the Roma community spread across 30 countries as a part of the Indian diaspora.\n\nIn the Habsburg Monarchy under Maria Theresa (1740–1780), a series of decrees tried to force the Romanies to permanently settle, removed rights to horse and wagon ownership (1754), renamed them as \"New Citizens\" and forced Romani boys into military service if they had no trade (1761), forced them to register with the local authorities (1767), and prohibited marriage between Romanies (1773). Her successor Josef II prohibited the wearing of traditional Romani clothing and the use of the Romani language, punishable by flogging.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1811578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1811578", "title": "Rundetaarn", "text": "Rundetaarn\n\nThe Rundetaarn or Rundetårn (Round Tower) is a 17th-century tower located in central Copenhagen, Denmark, and one of the many architectural projects of Christian IV of Denmark, built as an astronomical observatory. It is most noted for its equestrian staircase, a 7.5-turn helical corridor leading to the top, and for the expansive views which it affords over Copenhagen. \n\nThe tower is part of the \"Trinitatis Complex\" which also provided the scholars of the time with a university chapel, the Trinitatis Church, and an academic library which were the first facilities of the Copenhagen University Library which had been founded in 1482. Today, the Round Tower serves as an observation tower for views of Copenhagen, a public astronomical observatory, and a historical monument. The Library Hall above the church is only accessible along the tower's ramp and is a venue for exhibitions and concerts.\n\nAstronomy had grown in importance in 17th-century Europe. Countries had begun competing with each other in establishing colonies, creating a need for accurate navigation across the oceans. Many national observatories were therefore established, the first in 1632 at Leiden in the Dutch Republic. Only five years later the Round Tower Observatory, first referred to as STELLÆBURGI REGII HAUNIENSIS, would follow.\n\nAfter Tycho Brahe had fallen out of favour and left Denmark, Christian Longomontanus had become Christian IV's new astronomer and the first professor of astronomy at the University of Copenhagen. In 1625 he suggested the king build an astronomical tower as a replacement for Brahe's Stjerneborg which had been demolished after his death in 1601.\n\nLongomontanus' initial proposal was to erect the new observatory on the top of the hill Solbjerget, now known as Valby Bakke. But since there were also plans for the construction of a new students' church and a library for the university, the idea of merging the three buildings into one grand complex emerged.\n\nAlready in 1622, Christian IV had bought the land where it was ultimately decided to build the Trinitatis Complex. His original plans for the site are not known but as it was conveniently located next to the Regensen dormitories and the university, it was chosen for his new prestigious project.\n\nAlthough there is no clear proof, it is generally accepted that Hans van Steenwinckel the Younger was charged with the commission to design the new edifice though he did not live to see the tower completed. \nFrom 24 November 1636, stones were brought to the site for the foundation, first from the city's ramparts and later from the area around Roskilde. Bricks were ordered from the Netherlands since local manufacturers could not meet the high quality standards requested. In February 1637, a contract was signed with a Henrik van Dingklage in Emden for the supply of bricks for the construction. The first three ship loads were to be delivered in May, the next three loads the following month and the remainder on demand.\n\nThe Trinitatis Complex was set for construction in a crowded neighbourhood of narrow streets and alleyways. The area first had to be cleared. On 18 April 1637, 200 men, soldiers and personnel from Bremerholm began to demolish the half-timbered houses occupying the site.\n\nThe foundation stone was laid on 7 July 1637. When Hans van Steenwinckel died on 6 August 1639, Leonhard Blasius was brought to Denmark from the Netherlands as new Royal Building Master. Unlike his predecessor, he would become a mere transitional figure in Danish architecture, dying just four years after his arrival in the country without leaving any notable buildings of his own design. On several occasions construction work came to a standstill due to shortage of funds. Churches in Denmark and Norway were therefore ordered to contribute a share of their earnings during the construction years. In 1642, the tower was finally completed, though the church was completed only in 1657 and the library in 1657.\n\nChristian Longomontanus became the first director of the observatory. In the Great Fire of 1728 the Trinitatis Complex was severely damaged but was rebuilt.\n\nDuring the early 19th century, the Round Tower became outdated as an astronomical observatory. Instruments were growing still larger while the tower could not be expanded and, at the same time, light pollution from the surrounding city and vibrations caused by the ever increasing traffic in the streets below had made the observations inaccurate. The University therefore decided to build Østervold Observatory on the old bastioned fortifications of the city, which had become outdated and were being decommissioned. The new observatory was inaugurated in 1861 to the design of Christian Hansen.\n\n\nThe Round Tower is a cylindrical tower built in masonry of alternating yellow and red bricks, the colours of the Oldenburgs. The bricks used were manufactured in the Netherlands and are of a hard-burned, slender type known as \"muffer\" or \"mopper\". On the rear side, it is attached to the Trinitatis Church, but it has never served as a church tower.\n\nSteenwinckel — whose name is otherwise synonymous with Dutch Renaissance architecture in Denmark — with the Trinitatis Complex has left his signature style. Unlike his other buildings with their lavish ornamentations and extravagant spires, the complex is built to a focused and restrained design. Hans van Steenwinckel must have been up on the situation in Holland, cogniziant that the style which he had once learned from Hendrick de Keyser had been altogether abandoned.\n\nThe architects now setting the agenda in the Netherlands, masters such as Jacob van Kampen (Amsterdam City Hall), Pieter Post (Mauritshuis in the Hague) and Philip Vingboons, now favoured a style characterized by sobriety and restraint. It is now known as Dutch Baroque or sometimes Dutch Classicism. Its proponents often relied on the theoretical works such as those of Palladio and of Jacopo Barozzi da Vignola. Steenwinckel may have paid a visit to his native Netherlands prior to his change in style but it will have been too early for him to have seen any of the period's buildings realized.\n\nInstead of stairs, a 7.5-turn spiral ramp forms the only access way to the towertop observatory as well as the Library Hall and the Bell-Ringer's Loft, both located above the church. The ramp turns 7.5 times around the hollow masonry core of the tower before reaching the observation deck and observatory at the top, on the way also affording access to the Library Hall as well as the Ringer's Loft. This design was chosen to allow a horse and carriage to reach the library, moving books in and out of the library as well as transporting heavy and sensitive instruments to the observatory.\n\nThe winding corridor has a length of 210 m, climbing 3.74 m per turn. Along the outer wall the corridor has a length of 257.5 m and a grade of 10%, while along the wall of the inner core the corridor is only 85.5 m long but has a grade of 33%.\n\nThe observation deck is located 34.8 m above street level. Along the edge of the platform runs a wrought-iron lattice made in 1643 by Kaspar Fincke, Court Artist in metalwork. In the latticework, Christian IV's monogram and the letters RFP are seen, the letters representing the King's motto: \"Regna Firmat Pietas\" – Piety strengthens the Realms.\n\nThe observatory is a small domed building, built on the roof of the tower. Built in 1929, the current observatory is 7 m high and has a diameter of 6 m. Access is by a narrow winding stone staircase from the observation deck.\n\nOn the upper part of the façade of the tower, there is a gilded rebus inscription. Christian IV's draft of it, written in his own hand writing, is kept at the Danish National Archives. The rebus includes the four Hebrew consonants of the Tetragrammaton. The rebus can be interpreted in the following way: \"Lead God, the right teaching and justice into the heart of the crowned King Christian IV, 1642\".\n\nThe tower contains a toilet used by the researchers and astronomers working in the tower and consisting of a seat almost at the top and a shaft leading down to the bottom floor built into the hollow core. This shaft has no way of emptying it nor any ventilation to the outside, making it arguably one of the world's largest and earliest septic tanks.\n\nToday the Round Tower serves as an observation tower, a public astronomical observatory, an exhibition and concert venue and a historical monument.\n\nIn 1860 the University of Copenhagen decommissioned the Round Tower as a university observatory but in 1928 it was reconstructed as an observatory with access for amateur astronomers and the general public. It is open from mid-October to mid-March.\nSince 1987, the Library Hall which lies above The Trinitatis Church, has served as an exhibition space, featuring various exhibitions of art, culture, history and science. At the same time, it is used as a concert venue, every year hosting around a hundred concerts.\n\nThe observation deck affords extensive views over the rooftops of the old part of Copenhagen with its many spires, including the Marble Church, the Nikolaj contemporary art center, Christiansborg Palace, , the Church of the Holy Ghost, Copenhagen City Hall, Palace Hotel, the Church of Our Lady, St. Peter's Church, the Great Synagogue, St. Andrew's Church, Rosenborg Castle, the Church of Our Saviour and the pipes of . On clear days, both the Øresund Bridge and Sweden can be seen in the distance.\n\nEvery year in spring, a unicycle race is held in the Round Tower. The contestants have to go up and down the tower. The world record, set in 1988, is 1 minute and 48.7 seconds.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58568432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58568432", "title": "Silver economy", "text": "Silver economy\n\nSilver economy is the system of production, distribution and consumption of goods and services aimed at using the purchasing potential of older and ageing people and satisfying their consumption, living and health needs. The silver economy is analyzed in the field of social gerontology not as existing economic system but as an instrument of ageing policy and the political idea of forming a potential, needs-oriented economic system for aging population. Its main element is gerontechnology as a new scientific, research and implementation paradigm.\n\nThe phrase \"silver economy\" is sometimes used interchangeably with the term \"silver market\" (the “ageing marketplace” or the “mature market”), which is a narrower concept. The wording \"silver market\" was created in the 1970s in Japan in the context of increasing of the availability of facilities for seniors. Silver market includes, among others, good, values and services for affluent older people; special solutions in trade between operators, allowing adjustments to aging workforce; ideas of universal design and transgenerational design that aim is to adapt goods and services to people of different ages (\"age-friendly\"), physical condition and cognitive abilities, which may result in improved social integration.\n\nThe silver economy is not a single sector, but rather a collection of products and services from many existing economic sectors, including information technology, telecommunications, financial sector, housing, transport, energy, tourism, culture, infrastructure and local services, and long-term care.\n"}
{"id": "37888239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37888239", "title": "Society for the Protection of the Rights of the Child", "text": "Society for the Protection of the Rights of the Child\n\nThe Society for the Protection of the Rights of the Child (SPARC) is a Pakistani independent non-governmental organization dedicated to protecting the rights of children.\n\nSPARC was established as an advocacy group for children’s rights. Initially focused on promoting and protecting breastfeeding, it has expanded to child labour, juvenile justice, education and violence against children. It has held \"children's parliaments\" and worked to end corporal punishment in Pakistani schools.\n\nSPARC was officially established on December 17, 1992, in Islamabad, Pakistan. SPARC's governing body is run by a board of directors. While the headquarters is located in Islamabad, it has offices in Lahore, Karachi, Peshawar and Quetta, Hyderabad, Multan and Nowshera. 54 Child Rights Committees consisting of local activists operate at the district level.\n\nSPARC has consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council and the United Nations Department of Public Information. It is a partner of Defence for Children International. In 2003, SPARC received the United Nations Recognition Award for highlighting the plight of children and promoting the rights of children in Pakistan. In 2006, SPARC received USAID certification.\n\nSPARC is a member of the Pakistan National Alliance and the International Baby Food Action Network.\n\nThe Protection of Breastfeeding and Young Child Nutrition Ordinance, drafted by founding SPARC member Anees Jillani, was signed in October 2002 and came into force in 2010. It superseded the National Infant Feeding Board Rules of 2004. The ordinance has also been adopted by Gilgit-Baltistan, which has special status under a Presidential Order.\n"}
{"id": "23605711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23605711", "title": "Sonti Dakshinamurthy", "text": "Sonti Dakshinamurthy\n\nSonti Dakshinamurthy M.B.,B.S., B.S.Sc., D.P.H., D.T.M.H., Ph.D. (December 22, 1899 - 1975) was a professor of Social and Preventive Medicine in India, medical writer and an expert on Malaria.\n\nHe was born at Anakapalle in Visakhapatnam district, Andhra Pradesh. After studying M.B.,B.S. at Chennai, he went to London for higher studies. He did D.T.H and D.T.M.H. and did his Ph.D.\n\nAfter returning to India, he joined Andhra Medical College, Visakhapatnam as Lecturer between 1932 and 1938. He joined and worked in different positions between 1941 and 1951. He was appointed as Director of Health between 1953 and 1955 under Government of Andhra Pradesh.\n\nHe was the adviser to World Health Organization for about 25 years on Malaria. He held the position of Deputy director of Singapore office for 2 years. He visited Iraq, Alexandria and other countries as a Malaria team.\n\nHe wrote a textbook for medical students in India titled \"Introduction to Preventive and Social Medicine\" in 1962. It was published by Educational Enterprises, Kakinada. The foreword is written by A. L. Mudaliar.\n\nIn memory of his services, Andhra Medical College instituted a medal to be given to the meritorious students every year named \"Dr. Sonti Dakshina Murthy Prize\".\n\n"}
{"id": "13138043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13138043", "title": "Southern Yukaghir language", "text": "Southern Yukaghir language\n\nThe Southern, Kolyma or Forest Yukaghir language is one of only two extant Yukaghir languages.\n\nLast spoken in the forest zone near the sources of the Kolyma, divided between the Sakha Republic and the Magadan Oblast (around ), previously in the wider area of the upper Kolyma region.\n\nKolyma Yukaghir is a moribund language, with only 50 remaining speakers with the language as their mother tongue. No speakers are monolingual, since all speak Russian and most speak Yakut. The first language for all Yukaghir under 60 is Russian, although many still have Kolyma Yukaghir as a mother tongue, and the average age for fluent, first-language speakers is 63 or more. Previously, multilinguism was common in the region, and Kolyma Yukaghir, Yakut, Even, and Chukchi all served as languages of intercultural communication, depending on the ethnicity of the addressee. Yukaghirs 60 and older follow this custom. Middle-age Yukaghir, from 41-60, still have Yukaghir as their mother tongue and speak to elders in it, although they use Russian for all other communication. The youngest generation of Yukaghir is almost entirely monolingual in Russian, the only language used at school. Although Kolyma Yukaghir has been taught at school since 1985, the youngest generation still know little to none of the language.\n\nThe relationship of the Yukaghir languages with other language families is uncertain, though it has been suggested that they are distantly related to the Uralic languages, thus forming the putative Uralic–Yukaghir language family.\n\nKolyma and Tundra Yukaghir are the only two remnants of what used to be one of the dominant language families of northeastern Siberia, spreading from the River Anadyr in the east to the River Lena in the west. On the basis of the evidence of early sources, it can be assumed that there existed a Yukaghir dialect continuum, with what is today Kolyma Yukaghir and Tundra Yukaghir at the extremes.\n\nKolyma Yukaghir and Tundra Yukaghir are not mutually intelligible. Kolyma Yukaghir has residual vowel harmony and a complex phonotactics of consonants, rich agglutinative morphology and is strictly head-final. It has practically no finite subordination and very few coordinate structures. Kolyma Yukaghir has a split intransitive alignment system based on discourse-pragmatic features. In absence of narrow focus, the system is organised on a nominative–accusative basis; when focused, direct objects and subjects of intransitive verbs are co-aligned (special focus case, special focus agreement).\n\nAll charts are from Maslova (2003).\n\nAll vowels have short and long forms. Kolyma Yukaghir demonstrates contrastive vowel length.\n\nKolyma Yukaghir has a glottal stop, but only as a marginal phoneme in some interjections (ex. \"maʔ\": \"take!\").\n\n/b, x, ɣ, ç, ʝ/ occur as allophones of /w, q, ʁ, tɕ, dʑ/.\n\nWhen a labial approximant /w/ occurs at the end of a word, it is pronounced as a /u/.\n\nWhen a velar nasal /ŋ/ occurs before a voiced uvular fricative /ʁ/, it becomes a voiced uvular stop /ɢ/.\n\nThe phonemes /s, z/ occur in Russian loanwords.\n\nAn interlinear glossed sample:\nRecorded by Ljudmila Zhukova from Ljubov' Demina in 1988.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43743981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43743981", "title": "Stop Porn Culture", "text": "Stop Porn Culture\n\nStop Porn Culture is an international feminist anti-porn organization with branches in the United States, Norway, and the United Kingdom. It works as an advisory body, trains trainers, and builds public health educational materials based on empirical research. It has a network of volunteers and activists and collaborates with other organizations in the U.S. and Europe. Some of its work is grassroots activist work. \n\nIn the late 1990s and early 2000s, concurrent with the rapid growth of the Internet and the increased accessibility to pornography that it provided, feminists in the U.S. began to organize to discuss the proliferation of pornography and of \"violence associated with its production and consumption\". Some of the discussion participants decided to rebuild a national movement, similar to one of the previous 20 years, to address the harms of the pornography industry. Several feminists developed a contemporary version of the slide shows developed in the 1970s to be used as an educational tool and to inspire action against the (or sexualization) of culture. Stop Porn Culture was created from these efforts.\n\nThe Stop Porn Culture mission statement reads:\n\nGail Dines, founding member of Stop Porn Culture, wrote \"Pornland.\" In 2014 a documentary, with the same name, was released and promoted on the Stop Porn Culture website, and is described as \"an ideal introduction to the core arguments of the feminist anti-pornography movement.\"\n\nStop Porn Culture works to create awareness on what it calls the current \"porn culture.\" Much of this work is done online through online lecture videos and social media work as well as through workshops and conferences for Feminist Slideshow Training. It is an unpaid organization and recruits through a volunteer and internship program focused on marketing, digital writing, video editing, and social media projects.\n\nIn 2013 Stop Porn Culture started a petition against the journal, \"Porn Studies\", a first-of-its-kind, peer-reviewed publication focused on porn studies. Stop Porn Culture's co founder Gail Dines claimed that the journal has a pro-porn bias, a claim that the journal denied.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2005060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005060", "title": "Tai Lue language", "text": "Tai Lue language\n\nTai Lue (Tai Lü: , \"kam tai lue\", , Tai Tham spelling: ) or Tai Lɯ, Tai Lü, Thai Lue, Tai Le, Xishuangbanna Dai (; , \"phasa thai lue\", ; or ) is a Tai language of the Lu people, spoken by about 700,000 people in Southeast Asia. This includes 280,000 people in China (Yunnan), 200,000 in Burma, 134,000 in Laos, 83,000 in Thailand, and 4,960 in Vietnam. The language is similar to other Tai languages and is closely related to Kham Mueang or Tai Yuan, which is also known as Northern Thai language. In Yunnan, it is spoken in all of Xishuangbanna Dai Autonomous Prefecture, as well as Jiangcheng Hani and Yi Autonomous County in Pu'er City.\n\nIn Vietnam, Tai Lue speakers are officially recognised as the Lự ethnic minority, although in China they are classified as part of the Dai people, along with speakers of the other Tai languages apart from Zhuang.\n\nTai Lue has 21 syllable-initial consonants, 9 syllable finals and six tones (three different tones in checked syllables, six in syllables).\n\nThe initials - and s- are palatalised before front vowels (which in the language are , ) and ), and become and , respectively. For example, \"hard\" and \"ten\" are pronounced as and respectively.\n\nThe table below presents six phonemic tones in unchecked syllables, i.e. closed syllables ending in sonorant sounds such as , and and open syllables.\nThere are six tones for unchecked syllables, although only three are allowed in checked syllables (those ending with -p, -t or -k).\n\nThe table below presents two phonemic tones in checked syllables, i.e. closed syllables ending in a glottal stop and obstruent sounds which are , and .\n\nWord order is usually subject–verb–object; modifiers (e.g. adjectives) follow nouns.\n\nAs in Thai and Lao, Tai Lue has borrowed many Sanskrit and Pali words and affixes. Among the Tai languages in general, Tai Lue has limited intelligibility with Shan and Tai Nua and shares much vocabulary with, the other Southwestern Tai languages. Tai Lue has 95% lexical similarity with Northern Thai (Lanna), 86% with Central Thai, 93% with Shan, and 95% with Khun.\n\nBelow, Thai words are shown on the left and Tai Lue language words, written in Thai script, are shown on the right.\n\nMany words differ from Thai greatly:\n\nSome words differ in tone only:\n\nSome words differ in a single sound and associated tone. In many words, the initial ร () in Thai is ฮ () in Tai Lue, as is also the case in Lao and Tai Yuan:\n\nAspirated consonants in the low-class consonant group(อักษรต่ำ ) become unaspirated:\n\nThough many aspirated consonants often become unaspirated, when an unaspirated consonant is followed by ร () the unaspirated consonant becomes aspirated:\n\nOther differences:\n\nTai Lue is written in three different alphabets. One is Fak Kham script, a variety of Thai script of Sukhothai. The second is Tham script and was reformed in the 1950s, but is still in use and has recently regained government support. The new alphabet is a simplified version of the old script.\n\nAn ancient script, also used in Kengtung, Northern Thailand and Northern Laos centuries ago.\n\nTham script is called \"lao dai wen\" (Old Tai script) in China. Readable by the most people and used in Burma, Laos, Thailand and Vietnam.\n\nNew Tai Lue is a modernisation of the Lanna alphabet (also known as Tai Tham script), similar to the Thai alphabet, and consists of 42 initial consonant signs (21 high-tone class, 21 low-tone class), seven final consonant signs, 16 vowel signs, two tone letters and one vowel shortening letter (or syllable-final glottal stop). Vowels signs can be placed before or after the syllable initial consonant.\n\nSimilar to the Thai alphabet, the pronunciation of the tone of a syllable depends on the class the initial consonant belongs to, syllable structure and vowel length, and the tone mark.\n\nUnicode range (\"New Tai Lue\"): U+1980 – U+19DF\n\nThe Bajia people (), who number 1,106 individuals in Mengkang Village (), Meng'a Town (), Menghai County, Yunnan, speak a language closely related to Tai Lue. There are 225 Bajia people living in Jingbo Township 景播乡, Menghai County (You 2013:270). The Bajia are also known as the Chinese Dai .\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34237645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34237645", "title": "Thai Canadians", "text": "Thai Canadians\n\nThai Canadians are Canadian citizens of Thai ancestry.\n\nMigration from Thailand to Canada has gradually increased since the 1950s, when a few Thai students first came to study at Canadian universities. Migration has since continued at a slow pace, with a brief increase after the 1997 financial crisis in Thailand, which resulted in more Thais looking for work and educational opportunities overseas. Thai immigrants who choose to remain in Canada have generally immigrated to study, to take up a business, or to marry a Canadian. Many of them claim that they did not originally intend to stay in Canada. According to the 1991 census, there were 5,820 immigrants born in Thailand; 2,900 whose first language spoken at home was the Thai language; and 2,770 who claimed that they were of Thai ethnic origin. The larger figure for immigrants is explained by the fact that a certain number are likely ethnic Chinese and perhaps Lao from Thailand. Thai couples and small groups have settled primarily in Toronto, Vancouver, and Montreal.\n\nThere are substantially more Thai women than men in the country (1,775 women and 480 men). While most are professionals, students, or have married Canadian men, there are occasional instances of young women entering the country as artists and entertainers, or as visitors who become afterward legit Canadians by marrying or contributing to the culture in one way or another. Some are bilingual and, like many immigrants, speak the language more clearly than some natives.\n\nSome Thais in Canada work in the restaurant industry and Thai cuisine, known for its balance between sweet, sour, salty and spicy flavours, and for its use of fresh herbs, coconut milk and galangal root. This cuisine has become popular in Canada, particularly in urban areas. One notable example of a Thai in this industry is internationally acclaimed chef Sasi Meechai-Lim, who resides in Toronto, where she has opened several restaurants.\nThai immigrants to Canada are primarily well-educated professionals working as bankers, dentists, doctors, nurses, computer technicians and engineers. Many of them closed businesses such as Thai restaurants or Muay Thai gyms, which have become popular in Canada. Generally, they have been economically successful in Canada and have contributed to the Canadian economy.\n\nIn recent years, some Thais have come to Canada as live-in caregivers. Despite having positive bilateral relations, the Canadian Government discontinued its Work Experience Program (now known as the International Experience Canada program) to Thais. Work and study permits, as well as temporary resident visas, are seldom issued to Thai nationals from the Canadian embassy based in Thailand. A very small number of Thai nationals have become permanent residents and settled in Canada.\n\nThe Thai Community Association of British Columbia, formed in 1986, is officially registered as a community organization. It sponsors a variety of events, offers Thai language classes when there is a need, and produces newsletters in Thai at irregular intervals. The Friends of Thailand, formed in 1988, is open to interested non-Thai Canadians, although its members also include many Thai with Canadian spouses. Its goal is to help Canadians understand and appreciate Thai culture.\n\nIn Toronto, about ten families formed the Thai Association of Canada in 1983, but they soon reduced their mandate to Ontario. The group organizes social events, such as summer picnics and New Year’s parties, and arranges for Thai language classes.\n\nThai Buddhist Association, which has been meeting informally for many years, has been dedicated to maintaining the Thai Buddhist tradition in Canada. In 1992, a Christian church in East Vancouver was converted to be Vancouver's first Thai temple, founded by the senior monk Luang Pho Viriyang. In 1993, a building on the outskirts of Toronto was purchased and dedicated to become the second Thai Buddhist Yanviriya temple. In 2013, there were six Thai Buddhist temples, two Buddhist monasteries, and two meditation societies across Canada. These have become important for Thai-Canadians for religious and cultural practices, building community, and maintaining cultural identity.\n\n"}
{"id": "8892720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8892720", "title": "The Globalized City", "text": "The Globalized City\n\nThe Globalized City: Economic Restructing and Social Polarization in European Cities is a collection of discussions and case studies of large-scale urban development projects in nine European cities. It analyzes the relation between these projects and trends such as social exclusion, the emergence of new urban elites, and the consolidation of less democratic forms of urban governance.\n\nThe book offers in-depth analyses of linkages between urban restructuring and social exclusion against the backdrop of trends in urban governance across the European Union, examining neo-liberal and New Urban policies that increasingly favour private investment and deregulation of labour markets. The aim is to clarify the relationship between new urban spaces and the emergence of new forms of polity, economy, and urban life which may not necessarily promote social harmony within the metropolitan areas.\n\nThe nine case studies in the book identify a number of large-scale urban development projects and look into the respective variation of governance systems at different scales. They also indicate how these local projects reflect global trends, institutional forms and strategic practices. The nine mega-projects include: \n\nThese case studies are thoughtful examinations of the argument that mega-projects and events are vital for urban development.\n\n"}
{"id": "171132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171132", "title": "Tupi people", "text": "Tupi people\n\nThe Tupi people were one of the most numerous peoples indigenous to Brazil, before colonisation. Scholars believe that while they first settled in the Amazon rainforest, from about 2,900 years ago the Tupi started to migrate southward and gradually occupied the Atlantic coast of Southeast Brazil.\n\nThe Tupi people inhabited almost all of Brazil's coast when the Portuguese first arrived there. In 1500, their population was estimated at 1 million people, nearly equal to the population of Portugal at the time. They were divided into tribes, each tribe numbering from 300 to 2,000 people. Some examples of these tribes are: \"Tupiniquim\", \"Tupinambá\", \"Potiguara\", \"Tabajara\", \"Caetés\", \"Temiminó\", \"Tamoios\". The Tupi were adept agriculturalists; they grew cassava, corn, sweet potatoes, beans, peanuts, tobacco, squash, cotton and many others. There was not a unified Tupi identity despite the fact that they spoke a common language. \n\nFrom the 16th century onward, the Tupi, like other natives from the region, were assimilated, enslaved, or killed by diseases such as smallpox or by Portuguese settlers and Bandeirantes (colonial Brazil scouts), nearly leading to their complete annihilation, with the exception of a few isolated communities. The remnants of these tribes are today confined to Indian reservations or acculturated to some degree into the dominant society.\n\nThe Tupi were divided into several tribes which would constantly engage in war with each other. In these wars the Tupi would normally try to capture their enemies to later kill them in cannibalistic rituals.\nThe warriors captured from other Tupi tribes were eaten as it was believed by the Indians that such act would lead to their strength being absorbed and digested, thus in fear of absorbing weakness, they chose only to sacrifice warriors perceived to be strong and brave. For the Tupi warriors, even when prisoners, it was a great honor to die valiantly during battle or to display courage during the festivities leading to his sacrifice. The Tupi have also been documented to eat the remains of dead relatives as a form of honoring them. \n\nThe practice of cannibalism among the Tupi was made famous in Europe by Hans Staden, a German soldier, mariner, and mercenary, traveling to Brazil to steal riches, who was captured by the Tupi in 1552. In his account published in 1557, he tells that the Tupi carried him to their village where it was claimed he was to be devoured at the next festivity. There, he allegedly won the friendship of a powerful chief, whom he cured of a disease, and his life was spared. \n\nCannibalistic rituals among Tupi and other tribes in Brazil decreased steadily after European contact and religious intervention. When Cabeza de Vaca, a Spanish conquistador, arrived in Santa Catarina in 1541, for instance, he attempted to ban cannibalistic practices in the name of the King of Spain.\n\nBecause our understanding of Tupi cannibalism relies solely on primary source accounts of primarily European writers, the very existence of cannibalism has been disputed by some in academic circles. William Arens seeks to discredit Staden's and other writers' accounts of cannibalism in his book \"The Man-Eating Myth: Anthropology & Anthropophagy\", where he claims that when concerning the Tupinambá, \"rather than dealing with an instance of serial documentation of cannibalism, we are more likely confronting only one source of dubious testimony which has been incorporated almost verbatim into the written reports of others claiming to be eyewitnesses\".\n\nMany indigenous peoples were important for the formation of the Brazilian people, but the main group was the Tupi. When the Portuguese explorers arrived in Brazil in the 16th century, the Tupi were the first Amerindian group to have contact with them. Soon, a process of miscegenation between Portuguese settlers and indigenous women started. The Portuguese colonists rarely brought women, making the Indian women the \"breeding matrix of the Brazilian people\". When the first Europeans arrived, the phenomenon of \"cunhadismo\" (from Portuguese \"cunhado\", \"brother in law\") began to spread by the colony. \"Cunhadismo\" was an old Indian tradition of incorporating strangers to their community. The Indians offered the Portuguese an Indian girl as wife. Once he agreed, he formed a bond of kinship with all the Indians of the tribe. Polygyny, a common practice among South American Indians, was quickly adopted by European settlers. This way, a single European man could have dozens of Indian wives (\"temericós\"). \n\n\"Cunhadismo\" was used as recruitment of labour. The Portuguese could have many \"temericós\" and thus a huge number of Indian relatives who were induced to work for him, especially to cut pau-brasil and take it to the ships on the coast. In the process, a large mixed-race (mameluco) population was formed, which in fact occupied Brazil. Without the practice of \"cunhadismo\", the Portuguese colonization was impractical. The number of Portuguese men in Brazil was very small and Portuguese women were even fewer in number. The proliferation of mixed-race people in the wombs of Indian women provided for the occupation of the territory and the consolidation of the Portuguese presence in the region.\n\nAlthough the Tupi population largely disappeared because of European diseases to which they had no resistance or because of slavery, a large population of maternal Tupi ancestry occupied much of Brazilian territory, taking the ancient traditions to several points of the country. Darcy Ribeiro wrote that the features of the first Brazilians were much more Tupi than Portuguese, and even the language that they spoke was a Tupi-based language, named Nheengatu or Língua Geral, a lingua franca in Brazil until the 18th century. The region of São Paulo was the biggest in the proliferation of Mamelucos, who in the 17th century under the name of Bandeirantes, spread throughout the Brazilian territory, from the Amazon rainforest to the extreme South. They were responsible for the major expansion of the Iberian culture in the interior of Brazil. They acculturated the Indian tribes who lived in isolation, and took the language of the colonizer, which was not Portuguese yet, but Nheengatu itself, to the most inhospitable corners of the colony. Nheengatu is still spoken in certain regions of the Amazon, although the Tupi-speaking Indians did not live there. The Nheengatu language, as in other regions of the country, was introduced there by Bandeirantes from São Paulo in the 17th century. The way of life of the \"Old\" \"Paulistas\" could almost be confused with the Indians. Within the family, only Nheengatu was spoken. Agriculture, hunting, fishing and gathering of fruits were also based on Indian traditions. What differentiated the Tupi from the \"Old Paulistas\" was the use of clothes, salt, metal tools, weapons and other European items.\n\nWhen these areas of large Tupi influence started to be integrated into the market economy, Brazilian society gradually started to lose its Tupi characteristics. The Portuguese language became dominant and Língua Geral virtually disappeared. The rustic Indian techniques of production were replaced by European ones, in order to elevate the capacity of exportation. Brazilian Portuguese absorbed many words from Tupi. Some examples of Portuguese words that came from Tupi are: \"mingau, mirim, soco, cutucar, tiquinho, perereca, tatu\". The names of several local fauna – such as \"arara\" (\"macaw\"), \"jacaré\" (\"South American alligator\"), \"tucano\" (\"toucan\") – and flora – e.g. \"mandioca\" (\"manioc\") and \"abacaxi\" (\"pineapple\") – are also derived from the Tupi language. A number of places and cities in modern Brazil are named in Tupi (\"Itaquaquecetuba,\" \"Pindamonhangaba,\" \"Caruaru\", \"Ipanema\"). Anthroponyms include \"Ubirajara\", \"Ubiratã\", \"Moema\", \"Jussara\", \"Jurema\", \"Janaína\". Tupi surnames do exist, but they do not imply any real Tupi ancestry; rather they were adopted as a manner to display Brazilian nationalism.\n\nThe \"Tupinambá\" tribe is fictitiously portrayed in Nelson Pereira dos Santos' satirical 1971 film \"How Tasty Was My Little Frenchman\" (\"Como Era Gostoso o Meu Francês\"). Its name is also adapted by science (as \"Tupinambis\") for the tegus, arguably the best-known lizards of Brazil.\n\nThe large offshore Tupi oil field discovered off the coast of Brazil in 2006 was named in honor of the Tupi people.\n\nThe Guaraní are a different native group which inhabits southern Brazil, Uruguay, Paraguay and northern Argentina and speaks the distinct Guaraní languages, but these are in the same language family as Tupi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "71836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71836", "title": "Uzbek language", "text": "Uzbek language\n\nUzbek is a Turkic language that is the first official and only declared national language of Uzbekistan. The language of Uzbeks, it is spoken by some 32 million native speakers in Uzbekistan and elsewhere in Central Asia.\n\nUzbek belongs to the Eastern Turkic, or Karluk, branch of the Turkic language family. External influences include Persian, Arabic and Russian. One of the most noticeable distinctions of Uzbek from other Turkic languages is the rounding of the vowel to , a feature that was influenced by Persian.\n\nIn the language itself, Uzbek is ' or '. In Arabic script, and .\n\nTurkic speakers probably settled the Amu Darya, Syr Darya and Zarafshan river basins since at least 600–700 CE, gradually ousting or assimilating the speakers of Eastern Iranian languages who previously inhabited Sogdia, Bactria and Khwarezm. The first Turkic dynasty in the region was that of the Kara-Khanid Khanate in the 9th–12th centuries, who were a confederation of Karluks, Chigils, Yaghma and other tribes.\n\nUzbek can be considered the direct descendant or a later form of Chagatai, the language of great Turkic Central Asian literary development in the realm of Chagatai Khan, Timur (Tamerlane), and the Timurid dynasty (including the early Mughal rulers of India). The language was championed by Ali-Shir Nava'i in the 15th and 16th centuries. Nava'i was the greatest representative of Chagatai language literature. He significantly contributed to the development of the Chagatai language and its direct descendant Uzbek and is widely considered to be the founder of Uzbek literature. Ultimately based on the Karluk variant of the Turkic languages, Chagatai contained large numbers of Persian and Arabic loanwords. By the 19th century it was rarely used for literary composition, but disappeared only in the early 20th century.\n\nThe term \"Uzbek\" as applied to language has meant different things at different times. Prior to 1921 \"Uzbek\" and \"Sart\" were considered to be different dialects:\n\nIn Khanate of Khiva, Sarts spoke a highly Oghuz Turkified form of Karluk Turkic. After 1921 the Soviet regime abolished the term \"Sart\" as derogatory, and decreed that henceforth the entire settled Turkic population of Turkestan would be known as \"Uzbeks\", even though many had no Uzbek tribal heritage.\n\nHowever, the standard written language that was chosen for the new republic in 1924, despite the protests of Uzbek Bolsheviks such as Fayzulla Khodzhayev, was not pre-revolutionary \"Uzbek\" but the \"Sart\" language of the Samarkand region. Edward A. Allworth argued that this \"badly distorted the literary history of the region\" and was used to give authors such as the 15th century author Ali-Shir Nava'i an Uzbek identity. All three dialects continue to exist within modern spoken Uzbek.\n\nUzbek has been written in a variety of scripts throughout history:\n\nDespite the official status of the Latin script in Uzbekistan, the use of Cyrillic is still widespread, especially in advertisements and signs. In newspapers, scripts may be mixed, with headlines in Latin and articles in Cyrillic. The Arabic script is no longer used in Uzbekistan except symbolically in limited texts or for the academic studies of Chagatai (Old Uzbek).\n\nIn the western Chinese region of Xinjiang, where there is an Uzbek minority, the Arabic is still used.\n\nIn Afghanistan, the traditional Arabic orthography is still used.\n\nStandard Uzbek has six vowel phonemes:\n\nAs a Turkic language, Uzbek is null subject, agglutinative and has no articles and no noun classes (gender or otherwise). The word order is subject–object–verb (SOV). Words are usually oxytones (i.e. the last syllable is stressed), but certain endings and suffixal particles are not stressed.\n\nIn Uzbek, there are two main categories of words:\n\nUzbek uses the following verbal suffixes:\n\nThe present and future tenses are both expressed with the \"-a\" and \"-y\" suffixes.\n\nNouns take the \"-ni\" suffix as an indefinite article. Unsuffixed nouns are understood as definite.\n\nThe word order in the Uzbek language is subject–object–verb (SOV), which means that, unlike in English, the object comes before the verb and the verb is the last element of the sentence. \nEstimates of the number of speakers of Uzbek vary widely. The Swedish encyclopedia \"Nationalencyklopedin\" estimates the number of native speakers to be 30 million,\nand the \"CIA World Factbook\" estimates 25 million. Other sources estimate the number of speakers of Uzbek to be 21 million in Uzbekistan, 3.4 million in Afghanistan, 900,000 in Tajikistan, 800,000 in Kyrgyzstan, 500,000 in Kazakhstan, 300,000 in Turkmenistan, and 300,000 in Russia.\n\nThe influence of Islam, and by extension, Arabic, is evident in Uzbek loanwords. There is also a residual influence of Russian, from the time when Uzbeks were under the rule of the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union. Most importantly, Uzbek vocabulary, phraseology and pronunciation has been heavily influenced by Persian through its historic roots. Words like men \"I\" and kitob \"book\" are clearly of Persian origin.\n\nThe Uzbek language has many dialects, varying widely from region to region. However, there is a commonly understood dialect which is used in mass media and in most printed materials. Among the most-widespread dialects are the Tashkent dialect, Uzbek dialect, the Ferghana dialect, the Khorezm dialect, the Chimkent-Turkestan dialect, and the Surkhandarya dialect.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7669499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7669499", "title": "Wahumpura", "text": "Wahumpura\n\nThe Deva Tribe form the vast majority of the Singhalese population. Being one of the first tribes flourishing on the island of Sri Lanka it is natural that many Kings in Sri Lanka's old history were from the Deva. The Deva are therefore the Royal Tribe which provided Sinhalese Monarchs, Statesmen, Military Leaders (Kshatriya) and Learned Men and Priests (Brahmins) in Ceylon until the Nayakkar Kings of South Indian origin snatched power during the Kandyan era. Sri Lanka's Deva tribes (Naga / Raksha) who were the traditional ruling class of the island later became the Kshatriya and Brahmin castes of the classic Aryan Varnas of North India in the Middle Ages.\n\nAll the recorded Sinhalese Monarchs starting from King Pandukhabhaya (474 BC) down to King Mayadunne (1581 AD) and final king of Sri Lanka sri Srisiddhipathi(Gongalegoda banda 1848AD ) were members of the Deva tribes. Kings were given the royal title of Deio (Deviyo / Deyyo) / Devayan Wahansa / Bandara Deyyo (a local version of \"His Royal Highness\") showing their Deva Royalty. Many Kings who had done good deeds during their reign are elevated to Devahood (Deity status) after their deaths as in e.g. : Mahasen Deyyo ( King Mahasen) / Minneriye Deviyo with Devale (Shrine) dedicated in his name.\n\nAncient Deva tribes of Ceylon consisted of the order of Nagas (order of the Serpent) . Deva tribes of Ceylon also have their roots in the ancient Royal houses of Europe through Royal blood lineage (Rome, England, France, Germany, Greece, Scandinavia, Spain, Portugal, Romania) even reaching the Khazars of Turkey, king Saul of Israel, Monarchs of Siam, China, Korea, Japan and even in ancient ruling classes of Persia, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Kashmir, Nepal, Northern & Western India. Deva Tribe has been a part of the Global Monarchy from time immemorial keeping links with their ancestors by sending emissaries from Ceylon to Mediterranean Europe and vice versa during the ancient times. The name Deva (Godly) implies their status as descendants of God or Divine Beings a title reserved for Emperors and Monarchs.\n\nThe Sri Lankan caste system is a division of society into strata, influenced by the classic Aryan Varnas of North India and the Dravida Jāti system found in South India. Ancient Sri Lankan texts such as the Pujavaliya, Sadharmaratnavaliya and Yogaratnakaraya and inscriptional evidence show that the above hierarchy prevailed throughout the feudal period. The repetition of the same caste hierarchy Raja / Deva (Royalty), Bamunu / Giri (Priests, teachers, doctors), Vaishya / Radala (Aristocrats, Herdsmen, Traders), Shudra / Govi (Farmers, laborers, slaves, servants)even as recently as the 18th century, in the British / Kandyan period Kadayimpoth - Boundary books as well, indicates the continuation of the tradition right up to the end of Sri Lanka's monarchy.\n\nAncient texts such as the Pujavaliya, Sadharmaratnavaliya and Yogaratnakaraya list the four caste categories as Raja Kshatriya, Bamunu Brahmana, Velanda Vaishya and Govi in descending order, where the Govi caste is the 4th caste.\nOther ancient texts such as the Gavaratnakaraya and Sarpothpaththiya (Sarpavedakama vi, 5 & 123) respectively classify even Sri Lankan cattle and snakes into the same four caste categories as Raja, Bamunu, Velanda & Govi, where again Govi is the 4th form. Ballads sung to-date at ancient Gammaduva rituals also refer to the above four castes categories in the same sequence and also describes the limits and privileges of each. The domestic utensils of the Raja, category are described as made of gold; silver and copper for the next two and finally earthenware for the Govi caste which is last in the hierarchy (Gammaduwa 13). Govigama caste today is considered as the highest caste in Sri Lanka only because of numerical superiority, in India similar castes such as govigama are considered as \"Shudras\" the lowest caste in Indian Caste System.\n\nKing Nissanka Malla who managed to chase out[citation needed] the Indians who destroyed[citation needed] the Raja, Bamunu, Welanda, and Govi castes by forced intermarriages authored a stone inscription \"Gal Potha\" in Polonnaruwa which clearly states that people of \"Govi\" caste should not even think of becoming the King of Ceylon.\n\nLosing their Royal power and influence after the death of the last Sinhalese King, Royal Deva Tribes (Raja) were later maliciously made into an obscure artificially invented caste named Wahumpura by the influence of lower castes Goy / Govigama Mudliyars who came to prominence during the colonial period, hence people mixed up the Deva tribes with Wahumpura caste systematically obliterating the actual history of the Deva tribe.\n\nMembers of rural Deva tribes are today found predominantly in the Sabaragamuwa Province, North Western province(Wayambha province), Western province and North Central province, Raja Rata (Valley of Kings). The traditional occupation of this caste was the Governance of the Island and serve in the Military. In addition their tributary tribes functioned as trusted military reserve of the Sinhalese Kings.\n\nDuring the early Colonial era Deva (Raja /Bamunu) tribesmen never converted to Christianity nor changed their surnames nor did they join the newly amalgamated Govigama / Goy caste of agricultural laborers and slaves because the Devas were of highest standing coming from the Raja (Royalty) and Bamunu (Priests) upper castes or Kshatriya and Brahmins and did not see any need to create themselves a new identity or caste status in the then Sinhalese society by joining the low caste Govigama caste.\n\nHowever, due to the large population of members in the newly formed Govigama caste reduced the Royal Deva tribes to the second influential and significant Sri Lankan caste.\n\nIt is noteworthy to point that the amalgamation of the Shudra low castes laborers and slaves into one large Govigama caste was incorporated by the Colonial British Administrators in Ceylon at the request of a one Mudliyar De Seram, a Mudliyar of Malay origin who schemed to create himself a majority following to gain the leadership in Ceylon. De Saram family of Dutch and Malay ancestry had Sinhalised itself in the late 18th century by posing as the representatives of the masses and subsequently convincing the British rulers that they were from the numerous agricultural laborer shudra castes Govigama. This was a strategic move as it gave the British masters the impression that the De Saram family had the backing of a large body of natives. It was also the easiest route to Sinhalisation as the peasant community was widely dispersed, still unstructured and without inter-community networks or leaders.\n\nThe newly formed Govigama caste which came to prominence in the colonial period tarnished, ridiculed and obscured the identity of the Royal Deva Tribes, due to envy that the Deva tribe having the exclusive Kshatriya and Brahmin status in the social hierarchy. Thence low caste Govigamas launched a campaign to rename and identify the Deva tribe with an obscure and an invented caste called Wahumpura.\n\nThe origin of this community is linked to the ancient Deva people from the unwritten history of the island dating as far back as 270000 B.C.\nThe Deva Tribesmen are distinct from the other prominent tribe Yakka of Ceylon in skin complexion and features, many of them have a fair or olive color skin complexion and prominent Caucasian features not typical to a people of a hot tropical island. Deva were the early inhabitants of Ceylon, were ancient Eurasians namely Semites, Hellenic / Greeks, Romans and other Caucasians. They possessed the skills and technology to build large Engineering feats such as huge pagodas, palaces, buildings and reservoirs from their ancient engineering experience in building Pyramids in Egypt.\ndeva kula caste is an extension of Tamil Nadu thevar kulam who ruled the country in Tamil Nadu,(like chola Rajendra devar) Tamil Nadu rulers on those days consists of mukkulathor 3 casts (devar kallar,maravar) subcast of devar is agamudaiyar (Agampadi-Udaiyar-vellalar -vanniyar-) these are the people of chola army who came in thousand years ago to fight the sinhala army who consists of kerala, pandiya mercenaries the arch enemies of cholas, all became sinhalese in due course.there is no devar cast in Sinhalese .The mudaliyar title was given to weaver cast because they took oth to kill them self failing cutting their own head to protect the king also called kaikolar or senkunthar fearsome dangerous section of army who came to Sri Lanka to fight the sinhala cum pandiya, sera army,also vellikara Tamil army body guards oth to kill them self defending the king.polonaruwa (Tamil inscriptions)vijayabahu 1.\nTamil Nadu vanniyar called bandaram (sinhala banda) or madaapalli,these people inhabit kanchipuram thondainadu their king were called pallava,lost the empire in A.D 850 to cholas in a war consisting pandiya chera and Sri Lanka (sena 2) war took place a called thrupirampiyam in Tamil Nadu. Sri Lanka helping pandiya, more than 200,000 people died in 3 days chola won the war. During the ascention of the Raksha King Ravana, some Deva people migrated to other places like present North Malabar of Kerala where they followed Buddhism before the advent of Brahminism. Having their own complete social fabric and systems of precedence and worship, they dominated the area, until their power was seriously undermined by Brahmin lead power lobby. However, they still survive in Malabar, and are known as \"Thiyya\", a localisation of the name \"Deyva\" equivalent to Deva. The ancestor worship of Thiyyas spring from the fact that they consider themselves as descendents of \"Deyva\" or God. The ceremonial oracle, who represent the spirit of their ancestors of Lanka, in the temple are known as \"Theyyam\" origiting from the word \"Deyvam\" meaning God. However, by the time of arrival of Vijaya to Sri Lanka it had noted a significant presence of Deva clan In which latter got mixed with North Indians, Nagas and Yaksa to create the Modern Sinhalese lineage.\n\nThe traditional occupation of the Deva tribe was Governance, Military Service, Irrigation, Trade, Engineering, Overseeing Agriculture and safeguarding Buddhism.\n\nIn times of war, the Sinhalese Deva Kings (God Kings), who did not maintain standing armies relied on volunteers from this community in forming armies to counter invaders. This community has escaped the British period consolidation of several cultivator communities as one Govigama / Goy caste and exists as an independent, economically and politically influential caste.\n\nDuring the colonial period many of this community moved to the coastal provinces to engage in trade and businesses, after losing the traditional vocations of military and governance. Through successful trade, they established themselves as prominent merchants in the southern and western maritime provinces. Several members of this caste emerged as successful entrepreneurs in the British colonial market economy and were recognized as members of the local elite. They were involved in the freedom movement and the early political reforms of Ceylon.\n\nConsidered to be the largest of the Sinhalese castes, it has been estimated that this community makes up close to 30% of the Sinhalese population of the island. According to that Deva is the second largest caste of Sri Lanka due to large number of population in Govigama caste. Predominantly Buddhist, the community has not converted to Christianity as had other castes during the colonial period to preserve their social status in the society at that time which made them reluctant to join ranks with lower castes who became the first converts.\n\nPredominant in the Sabaragamuwa, North Western province(Whayaba province) and Western provinces, members of this community have achieved prominence, as professionals, businessmen and politicians. Much of people of this cast remain engaged in cultivation in their traditional areas. Although a large community they still remain under represented in parliament, yet retain an influential say in modern Sri Lankan politics.\n\n"}
{"id": "27141894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27141894", "title": "Zakria Zae Mengal", "text": "Zakria Zae Mengal\n\nThe Zakar Zai is a branch of the Mengal tribe of Pakistan. They live in various areas of Balochistan and Sindh, but the majority are in the districts of Nushki, Kalat and Quetta, as well as in Khuzdar and Surab.\n"}
