{"id": "30246538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30246538", "title": "Ad-Da'i Yusuf", "text": "Ad-Da'i Yusuf\n\nAd-Da'i Yusuf (died September 12, 1012) was an imam of the Zaidi state in Yemen who ruled for two highly turbulent terms (977–999, 1002–1012).\n\nYusuf bin Yahya was a son of the imam al-Mansur Yahya who died in 976. In the following year, Yusuf was proclaimed with the regnal name ad-Da'i Yusuf. His early years were filled with struggles against the Yu'firid Dynasty that ruled much of the Yemeni highland. The important city San'a at this time was subjected to the overlordship of the Sunni Ziyadid dynasty which ruled the Tihamah from its base in Zabid. Ad-Da'i Yusuf managed to gain recognition as prince in San'a and the surrounding province in 978, reciting the khutbah in his own name. Nevertheless, the Ziyadid governor Ibn ad-Dahhak soon fought back. The last effective Yu'firid ruler Abdallah managed to win back the city and increase his power still by invading the Ziyadid domains and seize Zabid. After Abdallah's death in 997, Yu'firid rule collapsed.\n\nFor ad-Da'i Yusuf, this was but a brief respite. A rival for the imamate, al-Mansur al-Qasim al-Iyyani appeared in 999. With the assistance of the Hamdan tribesmen, ad-Da'i Yusuf was expelled from Sa'dah, the traditional seat of the imams. A Zaidi Sharif, al-Qasim bin al-Husayn, was dispatched to San'a by the new imam, and the Zaydiyyah communities submitted to him. After some years, al-Qasim bin al-Husayn changed his allegiance to ad-Da'i Yusuf again. Al-Mansur al-Qasim al-Iyyani retired from power in 1002, and ad-Da'i Yusuf ruled for a second term. However, his time was filled with petty fighting over San'a, where the tribesmen of Hamdan and Khawlan played a major role. He also had to fight al-Mansur's son who posed as imam under the name al-Mahdi al-Husayn. This uneasy situation persisted until the death of ad-Da'i Yusuf in 1012, after an extremely turbulent reign.\n\n"}
{"id": "32085066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32085066", "title": "Afro-Guatemalan", "text": "Afro-Guatemalan\n\nAfro-Guatemalans are Guatemalans of African descent. Afro-Guatemalans comprise 1-2% of the population. They are of mainly English speaking West Indian (Antillean) and Garifuna population. They are found in the Caribbean coast, in Livingston (a Garifuna settlement), Puerto Barrios and Santo Tomas. During the colonial period, African slaves were brought in, but have mixed with the general population and can be referred to them as Afro-mestizos. So, due to miscegenation, the majority of black people became in Mulatto (50% black-50% white) and Zambo (50% black-50% Amerindian) and these in turn became in Quadroon (75% white and 25% black) and Cambujos (75% Amerindian and 25% black). Due to centuries of miscegenation, Afro-Guatemalans (aside from the Garifunas) today form part of the country's mixed race, non-indigenous ladino population.\n\nDue to the difficulty of slave ships arriving in Guatemala, buyers of the Kingdom of Guatemala depended on the vagaries of the market they did not control. For shipping list, we know that slaves came between the 15th and 16th centuries, mostly from Senegambia, Sierra Leone and the Gold Coast; in the seventeenth century, they came from the Gold Coast and the Bight of Benin. And in the eighteenth century, they came from Biafra (Nigeria), Congo Republic, Angola, Guinea and Benin (from Kingdom of Whydah). In this century also arrived slaves Aja (who were known as \"Arará\", coming from Allada, Benin) and \"creole\", from Puerto Rico and Jamaica. Also arrived Calabari, from Havana, Cuba.\n\nMany of the blacks slaves who worked in rural areas came, usually of Senegambia. In Addition, there were also many slaves bought in Luanda, Angola. There were also at least 30 other African ethnic groups - from the Central Africa - in Guatemala, chief among them the Kongo, and the mongiolos and anchico. Also, there was at least a dozen of slaves from West Africa, some them were bran (ethnic group from west of Ghana), Banyun (who were known as \"Banon\", are established in Senegal, Gambia and Guinea Bissau) and biafadas (ethnic group of Guinea Bissau) people.\n\nThe first Afro-Guatemalan arrived in Guatemala in 1524 with Pedro de Alvarado (the “Conqueror of Guatemala”). Also in the 1530s are mentioned in the records of the Cabildo of Santiago, in Almolonga, some enslaved blacks. This first city, founded in 1527 with 150 Spanish residents, was destroyed in September 1541 by an avalanche of water and mud of the Volcán de Agua (Volcano of Water) that buried the Spanish sector of the capital with a large number of Native Americans and a small number of enslaved blacks. However, the first significant costs that are reporting data from 1543, when an estimated \"150 pieces pig\" of Santo Domingo, were taken to the Caribbean coast of Guatemala. African slaves arrived in Guatemala to replace the indigenous population as labor, as these had been reduced drastically from diseases such as measles, smallpox or bubonic plague, they were infected by the Spanish conquerors, and reduced to about a third of its population. African slaves were used in the sugar, indigo, and cochineal plantations. They were also used in the hacienda or large cattle ranch. Since Santiago was the political and economic center of Guatemala (and throughout the Spanish Central America), many of the slaves brought to the region, were bought and sold there, and were baptized in their churches and parishes and possibly also in their monasteries. Between 1524 and 1620, a total of 10,000 African slaves were brought to Guatemala. So, because of the rise In power in the Middle East at the end of the sixteenth century, a large number of people started and to be identified as mulatto. According to Robinson Herrera, of 250 Africans bought and sold in Santiago, about 40% came directly from África. Eighty slaves came from West Africa, particularly in Senegambia and the Central - Western Africa. For the other 50 people, 20% were criollos (slaves born in Spain, Portugal or America), and the other ten were mulattoes. Although there were few free mulattoes in the region at this time, their number was greater than the mulattoes enslaved. Between 1595 and 1640 there is an increase in the importation of slaves to Guatemala, but after 1640, imports sharply declined (some authors indicated even that the importation of slaves ceases). The first free black of Santiago first appeared already in the second half of the sixteenth century. Because of its small population, free blacks had to marry with other more numerous socioracials groups. Between 1595 and 1640, the Spanish crown signed a series of contracts with Portuguese traders to dramatically increase the number of African slaves in America. So many slaves came from the Angolan port of Luanda. Also, during the 17th century, some slaves could buy their freedom, forming a small community of free blacks. Runaway slaves formed Cimarrons societies, living among the population. Founded in 1590, the ingenuity of Asís, who became the most important in the seventeenth century, had more than 200 slaves and in 1633, the ingenuity of San Geronimo, north of Santiago, in Verapaz, was home to hundreds of slaves \"of different nations\" and became the largest in Central America. In 1821 there were more than 500 slaves.\n\nIn the late seventeenth century, the Afro - descendant was scattered to the south and east of Guatemala and El Salvador. The impact of African immigration in early colonial times was deeper in the sugar mill in Amatitlán and mint of Escuintepeque shores, where is San Diego de la Gomera. The Afro - descendants lived in nearly two dozen locations between Guatemala and El Salvador. In 1823, after independence, arrived to Guatemala Garífuna groups from Honduras. They occupied the Caribbean lowland.\n\nDuring colonial times and until the abolition of slavery in Guatemala (liberal government after independence) was important to the African population. Most Spanish houses of the time in Guatemala, especially in Santiago, had Indian servants and African slaves. In both cases, most of them were female. Because most Spanish who emigrated to Latin America at this time were men, looking rich and did not carry with them their wives, often had sex with her maids and female slaves, causing racial mixtures, increasingly abundant while growing the Spanish settlers in the territory, racial mixture which was maintained until the destruction of Santiago by severe earthquakes in 1773 and the jurisdiction of the new capital in Guatemala City in 1770. With racial mixtures, mulattoes, eventually came to outnumber blacks enslaved. On one side were those black and mulatto slaves who worked in houses and estates and on the other hand, a large population of free blacks who scattered in towns and cities. The growing miscegenation between black slaves and free mulattoes increasingly increased the population of free mulattoes. The drastic reduction in the importation of slaves to Guatemala and increased free slaves eventually prompted some places that have a predominance of slaves pass to have a predominance of free blacks. Moreover, the mixture of mulattoes and mestizos caused higher incomes and a higher position for those with lighter skin. While some roads were blocked for people of African descent, especially in college and in the church. While miscegenation and learning the Spanish language and standards were increased, more Afro - Guatemalans have access to jobs. So also, the slave population was mixed also with indigenous and white populations of Guatemala and the whole group of African people in the colony, were not \"pure black\", to call that. Many slaves were hired to work in various jobs such as in the carnage. The mulattoes were often involved in the illegal killing of livestock. Although we know little about Afro - Guatemalans working in the agricultural sector, several sources in the last third of the sixteenth century, identified Afros farming communities in the present Jalapa, El Progreso, Santa Rosa and Jutiapa departments, and in the area surrounding the city of Sansonante, in the current El Salvador. Many of these slaves were born in Africa, usually in the region of Senegambia. However, it also had African slaves born in America. The Pacific coast was also home to many blacks and mulattoes free sticking by his great abilities as vagueros, to the extent that the laws of the sixteenth century forbidding them riding on horses or have weapons were almost always ignored because their skills were as necessary as feared, skills that would later valuable recruits from colonial militias and gave opportunity for upward social mobility. Free people of African descent and slaves also worked on the production of indigo in the Pacific coast of Guatemala and, especially, of El Salvador. People of African descent tended to work in the mills, usually doing the work of supervision during Xiquilite harvest. This station lasted only one or two months a year, making it unprofitable to maintain a permanent workforce only enslaved workers to produce indigo. Some owners of mills, hired more slaves of which them needed to produce indigo since used for other activities, such as livestock.\n\nBetween 1595 and 1640, the Spanish crown signed a series of contracts with Portuguese traders to dramatically increase the number of African slaves in America. So many slaves came from the Angolan port of Luanda, mostly slaves who were used as laborers in the sugar cane, since in these years were enormously developing sugar production in the territory.\n\nIn 1611, when the free mulattoes helped defeat the Maroons of Tutale, not allowed people of African descent officially participate in militia companies, but Africans and their descendants, even enslaved, had fought with Spanish forces from time to time since the conquest. However, in the 1630s, a wave of attacks Centre - America, by corsairs Dutch, French and British persuaded to the Audiencia to enlist free people of African descent in regular militia companies, although segregated. In 1673 there were 6 companies browns in Guatemala and two in El Salvador. Soon there were also places like chivalry in Sonsonate Department and Chiquimula. After early struggles against the corsairs, the browns requested exemption of Laborío Tribute, threatening not to serve if they are not granted the exemption. Because of that, several companies of militia were temporary tax exemptions Laborio during the 1690s, including the San Diego de la Gomera. The militants claimed this success and soon new Exemptions requested when aspirated initials. Soon, the rest of the Afro - descendants also expected to be relieved Laborío tribute, and prepared to face the authorities on the subject, rebelling them.\n\nIn the first decades of the seventeenth century, some free people of African descent living in Chipalaga, founded a new community directed only to the Cimarron (or Maroon) communities, the Village of San Diego de la Gomera, founded by Count de La Gomera, president of the audience of Guatemala between 1611 and 1626, to solve the problems of the Maroons of Tulate living illegally in Indian Territory. Several free mulattoes fought the Maroons (who had a duty to arrest the runaway slaves and came to their territories, to give to their owners in exchange for legal recognition) and could have won the right to establish an independent community as a reward . They were given the saline control along the Pacific coast in the borders of Coyolate River and Sipacate, which produced the revenue needed to pay the Laborío ld\n\nLowkktrrrrTribute to the crown that people needed. They had their own mayor, town councils and councilors. Spanish officials who were to perform site visits, prevented him when they could, so that the common people are accustomed to ignoring outside authorities, refusing even priests pay or go to church. So when the saline control was threatened, they did their best to defend it, even took up arms in 1700 against the forces of the Audiencia. Ironically, they fought and showed their military experience to the same Audiencia that before had trained to they militarily (and others free slaves of African descent) for decades as militants. According to Ann Jefferson, Guatemalan slavery was clearly in decline in the eighteenth century and the commercial development and production in the agricultural converted many mulattoes from Guatemalan east, some of them very prominent in landowners. In addition, at the end of the colonial period, over 50% of the militiamen were mulatto, struggling to improve their situation and refusing to pay the taxes that were required to the crown. Although most slaves were engaged in sugar production, freed slaves, who expanded their business in the region, eventually be dedicated in producing cochineal, which will acquire a dominant role.\n\nThey are the mix black with white or Amerindian and form the majority of the descendants of slaves now Guatemala. They were mainly settled in the Pacific southern and inland areas. Marimba a type of xylophone, created in Guatemala is believed to be of African roots.\n\nThe Garifuna entered Guatemala in 1823, after independence. They occupied the Caribbean lowland. They were later joined by free blacks of the colonial era. In the latter part of the 20th century, West Indian workers were brought in to work the banana plantations. A few made Guatemala home. Because of their differences and independence, through the years the Garifuna have been feared and discriminated by Guatemalans and accused of devil-worship, voodoo, polygamy and speaking a secret language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3833875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3833875", "title": "Air Tamajeq language", "text": "Air Tamajeq language\n\nAir Tamajeq (\"Tayiṛt\") is a variety of Tamasheq, one of the Tuareg languages. It is spoken by the Tuareg people inhabiting the Aïr Mountains, in the Agadez Region of Niger.\n\n\"Ethnologue\" lists two dialects: \"Air (Tayert)\" and \"Tanassfarwat (Tamagarast/Tamesgrest)\". Blench (2006) considers these two varieties to be distinct languages. He lists \"Ingal\" and \"Gofat\" as dialects of Air/Tayirt and Azerori as a dialect of Tamesgrest.\n"}
{"id": "8149492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8149492", "title": "Anti-environmentalism", "text": "Anti-environmentalism\n\nAnti-environmentalism refers to the way that various groups in society have sought to counter the effects of environmental ideology and movements, to redirect and diminish public concern about the environment, to attack left-leaning environmentalists, and to persuade politicians against increased environmental regulation. Environmentalists argue that the only solutions to climate change will come from humans interfering less with the Earth, or to stop interfering altogether. In the eyes of many anti-environmentalists, environmentalism is radical and \"anti-human\".\n\nSome anti-environmentalists argue that the Earth is not as fragile as some environmentalists maintain, as Earth maintained itself long before humans arrived, and it will continue to maintain itself long after humans are gone. Another significant argument made by anti-environmentalists is that it is in the interest of the economy, and more specifically job creation, to be anti-environment. Groups which are notoriously anti-environment include oil producers and mining companies.\n\nAs the nature of anti-environmentalism is a polarizing subject, it has resulted in a variety of conflicts throughout North America, including the Dakota Pipeline in Standing Rock, North Dakota and the Alberta Oil Sands. The Dakota Pipeline, a four-state crude oil pipeline which would transport 470,000 barrels of oil per day from North Dakota to Illinois, evoked backlash from environmentalists, as well as the Indigenous communities residing in South Dakota, primarily the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe. These groups had concerns about the ethicality of the pipeline as well as the pollutants the pipeline would release into the water supply of South Dakota inhabitants. Environmentalists had similar complaints regarding the Alberta Oil Sands. Anti-environmentalists argued that the economic benefits that would result from both projects outweigh the negative effects on the environment and these people living in these areas.\n\nConcern about the impacts of human activity on the environment in Canada started in the 1960s and pollution was one of the main concerns at this time. Throughout the 1960s, more emphasis was put on nature conservation, as the natural environment started to be seen not only as scenic, but important to human survival. Public concern for the environment turned into action with the development of activist groups such as Greenpeace. This concern was later reflected in decisions made by the Canadian government, as was seen with Canada ratifying the Kyoto Protocol in 2002 under the leadership of Jean Chrétien of the Liberal Party. Critics of the environmental movements described Greenpeace as a radical group, displaying an act of “domestic extremism\".\n\nDuring his time as President of the United States, Bill Clinton made strides towards environmentalism and sustainability. Throughout the 1990s, Clinton signed various executive orders committing to the preservation of many facets of the environment including animals, forests and wetlands. In 1993, Clinton and Gore hosted the Forest Conference which was considered to be the beginning of developing a comprehensive, long term policy in which workers, businesses and communities dependent on timber sales would be supported. In the same year, Clinton issued executive orders for federal agencies to increase the use of alternative-fueled vehicles and reduce the use of materials which deplete the ozone. As well, Clinton spearheaded an environmental justice movement, ensuring that low-income citizens and minorities did not disproportionately feel the impacts of industrial pollution, and minimizing the hazards associated with the construction of pipelines.\n\nClinton’s successor, President George W. Bush stated in his campaign platform that he would “ensure that the federal government, which is the country’s largest polluter, complies with all environmental laws” and that the United States would even exceed the set standards. Though once elected, Bush verged from what he had promised during his campaign, and instead reversed Clinton administration initiatives on drinking water, and advocated for oil exploration in protected regions. Bush’s administration also moved forward in withdrawing its support of the Kyoto Protocol, a worldwide global warming agreement created in 1997. Bush stated that he would work with allies to the United States to reduce greenhouse gases, but would not carry out a plan that would harm the economy and hurt American workers.\n\nFrom the 1980s, Mexico experienced rampant deforestation to create room for pastures. Tropical forests covered 50% of the state of Tabasco in 1940, which then was reduced to 10% in the late 1980s. The result of this has been mass soil erosion nationwide. By 1985, 17% of Mexico’s land was classified as totally eroded, while almost 50% of land was classified as experiencing an accelerated erosion, or signs of impending erosion. The coastline of Mexico experiences other problems, such as the exploitation of petrol as there are relaxed regulations concerning petrol. In 1992, this resulted in 1,000 barrels of gasoline leaking into municipal sewer systems in Guadalajara, where the gases and chemicals produced an explosion killing almost 200 people. Following this event, in 1994, President Bill Clinton issued executive orders demanding that the North American Agreement on Environmental Cooperation and the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Mexican States Concerning the Establishment of a Border Environment Cooperation Commission be enforced so that it aligns with American environmental policy.\n\nOne study conducted in the mid-1980s of twelve urban areas around the world concluded that residents of Mexico City had the highest levels of cadmium in their blood. The concentration of pollutants was impacting surrounding ecosystems, as well as residents in the area These impacts included birth defects and high levels of gastrointestinal disease. Also in the 1980s, the Mexican government implemented various anti-pollution policies in Mexico City. These policies included vehicle emission inspections, introducing unleaded gasoline, and the installation of converters on vehicles to help reduce pollution created by buses and trucks. Another study in Mexico determined that five million tons of contaminants were released into the atmosphere each year; ten times more than in the previous decade. Vehicles and industrial plants were found to be the main contributors of contaminants into the atmosphere. As well, fecal matter becomes airborne in Mexico during the winter months, resulting in residents being diagnosed with a variety of respiratory illnesses.\n\nThere are many scientific studies, which have analyzed the organized campaigns to sow doubt among laymen and politicians, which has been done by the so-called \"denial machine\". The process of creating doubt within a community is difficult and requires many moving parts in order for it to be effective. If it is done correctly the influence a denial machine has on the public is enormous. These types of machines have previously been used in the tobacco industry, and in today’s world it can be found in the climate change discussion. It all starts with large corporations and trickles down to politicians, cover organizations, the media, and into the laps of ordinary citizens. Koch Industries is a prime example of this. Since 1997 the Koch Brothers have spent over a hundred-million dollars funding alternative theories of meteorology. These groups are masked as think tanks and their purpose is to spread false ideals and attack climate change scientists. Large corporations do not only funnel money into denial groups, but they also pay off politicians. Politicians like Mitch McConnell have been paid millions of dollars from oil and gas industries to prevent pro-environmental legislation from being passed. This combination of politicians and denial groups spreading propaganda causes a lot of uncertainty within the public community.\n\nThe Alberta oil sands has also been a point of contention between environmentalists and anti-environmentalists. Anti-environmentalists maintain that the oil sands have improved Canada’s relations with the United States as Canada is their number one foreign supplier of oil.\n\nAs well, the oil sands have brought a secure source of energy to Canada, as well as tremendous economic gains for Alberta. There are some environmental efforts in place to mitigate the effects that the mining involved in operating the Oil Sands has on animal species, though environmentalist groups are not satisfied. Environmentalist groups such as Greenpeace are concerned with the environmental, social and health impacts of the Oil Sands, particularly on First Nations communities in Alberta.\n\nThe source of this conflict is that on January 25, 2016, Dakota Access announced that it received permit approval to move forward with the construction of a four-state crude oil pipeline which would transport 470,000 barrels of oil per day from North Dakota to Illinois. Anti-environmentalists defended the construction of the Pipeline as it would create thousands of jobs, make the United States more energy independent and create a more cost-effective method of transporting oil to major refining markets. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe took issue with this as the pipeline would run through their communities, tainting their sacred land as well as contaminating their water supply. What followed in the next ten months was a response from Sioux communities, protestors and environmentalist groups in the form of peaceful protests in which over 400 arrests were made by local law enforcement. 26 Environmentalist groups responded to the event with an open letter condemning the actions of the North American banks who helped fund the pipeline, and encouraged them to stop any future payments contributing to it.\n\nClimate change has been in effect for some time now. Scientific evidence in the last 50 years has proven climate change to be both real, and dangerous by giving scientific evidence for connection between human carbon emissions and indefinite climate change. Examples of the increasingly dangerous effects of this climate change can be seen in many different parts of the world. These effects are seen in Arctic regions as the loss of ice volume is increasing rapidly. In the mid-1970s there was a shift as the annual volume loss was about 147 mm.yr-1 in water equivalent, followed by more rapid loss in the last decade. As heat continues to rise dangerous effects can also be seen in warmer regions of the world. For example, these hot areas consumed by agricultural fields have increased in the numbers of fires, vector-borne diseases, and have ultimately created a decline in agricultural production. The droughts and below-normal rainfall and above-normal temperatures in 2010 and 2011, affected four regions: the southern United States, western Russia, Western Australia, and East Africa, and the entire continental US was affected. In all these cases droughts reduced crop yields and led to increased wild fires. The Southern half experienced extreme and persistent drought from mid 2010 to September 2011, with the greatest impact in Texas. The Texas drought epicenter had historic rainfall lows of up to 66% below normal, coupled with one of the hottest summer on record in 2011. Global warming helped fuel 2005's destructive hurricane season, researchers said. Their study adds to a roiling scientific debate over the role of climate change in spurring more intense hurricanes. About half of the previous year's extra ocean warmth was due to global warming said the co-author of the study Kevin Trenberth. According to the study, the 2005 hurricane season was a record one with 28 named storms. The season extended beyond its normal November close, lasting until December 30th. It was the first year on record with three category 5 storms. Researchers with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said there's an 80% chance of an above average hurricane season with four to six major hurricanes that year. Sea- surface temperatures are key because hurricanes are essentially heat engines. They draw energy from warm ocean waters and release it in tremendous storms.\n\nSince the early 1990s, key issues across the world regarding how nations should address the concept of climate change have created several tensions. As a result, from these tensions, global relations (specifically between developed and developing nations) have diminished in quality. For example, the Kyoto and Copenhagen Conferences in the late 2000s brought up issues revolving nuclear power energy use in Japan and the nuclear radiation detected on the coast of other countries of the Pacific. Eventually the argument was settled between Japan and its oppositional forces of the United Nations, led by key large nations of the West such as the United States, in the Copenhagen Accord. The Copenhagen Accord itself hosts large controversy, headed by promises of both developed and developing nations to mitigate advocations for action against climate change. In other words, in an attempt to create a regime that compliments the United Nation's core beliefs that often correlate to Western society's beliefs, attitudes of past imperialism were implemented on a global scale. An earlier occurrence reflects the same concept, when Indonesia experienced widespread drought between the years 1993 and 1997. During this time period, rice, Indonesia's staple crop and food source, experienced major detriment in its production, causing riots resulting from a dramatic increase in price of rice and political instability. China played a key part during this period, being that the country made settlements on subsidies for rice, as China experienced an abundance of rice yield during the same period. This furthered Indonesia's debt to China, cancelling out any progress made by the two nations during the Settlement of Indonesia's Debt Obligation to China conference of 1990.\n\nIn recent decades, conservative political parties in North America have been supportive of an anti-environment agenda. In Canada, a main proprietor of this agenda in the past has been Stephen Harper, the former Prime Minister of Canada. In 2014, Environment Canada released its annual emissions trends report, which showed that Canada was not going to meet emission reduction targets as was promised in 2009. In fact, Canada is on track to increase its emissions up until 2020. While Harper’s government originally committed to reducing emissions, Harper later stated it would be “crazy” to limit oil and gas emissions as the price of oil rose higher\n\nThis was consistent with Harper’s decision to withdraw Canada from the Kyoto Protocol in 2011. The main reason given for this by Harper was that Canada was not having success in meeting the protocol’s targets. In the following years, Harper’s administration made it difficult for environmental groups to operate in Canada. Environmental charities experienced frequent audits by the federal government which resulted in less productivity and being at risk of losing their charitable status. In addition; scientific institutions were eliminated, or were faced with obstacles such as reduced government funding, and rules put into place which made it increasingly difficult for government scientists to discuss their work with media outlets. Scientific positions including the National Science Advisor who is the point-person between the scientific community and the government, were phased out in 2008. Harper also repealed a significant environmental policy which had previously been in place; the Canadian Environmental Assessment Act. Later, a new version of the act was created, which critics argue allows the government to select which projects are assessed for their ecological impact and which are not.\n\nIn 2015, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau made climate change a primary concern during his first months of leadership. In 2016, Trudeau signed the Paris Agreement which outlines the avenues the international community will pursue to keep global warming to 1.5 °C above pre-industrial levels. Trudeau also changed the name of Environment Canada to Environment and Climate Change Canada which was an important milestone for environmentalists, as it acknowledges that climate change exists, and is of equal importance to other environmental concerns.\n\nRecently, President Barack Obama promised to make the United States more environmentally conscious, and implemented the Clean Power Plan, invested significantly in clean energy, and improved standards for fuel economy of our vehicles; this reduced pollution and was also economical. Obama also made a joint agreement with China to reduce the emissions of both countries, and to reduce emissions in the United States by 27% by 2025. The current state of environmental affairs in the United States has changed drastically once again with the new Donald Trump administration. Trump has been open about his plans to alter or withdraw entirely from many climate change and environmental agreements the United States is currently involved in, such as the Paris Agreement. As this agreement is voluntary, the United States would face no penalty if they declined to participate. However, as the United States is the second largest emitter of carbon after China, their lack of participation in the agreement would greatly impact global efforts to reduce carbon emissions. While in 1999, President Bill Clinton announced that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) would enforce the toughest standards to date, Trump's administration recently instructed the Environmental Protection Agency to remove the climate change page from its website. EPA employees have stated that if the page is taken down, years of research on global warming will be gone, as well as detailed data on emissions and links to scientific global warming research. On June 1, 2017, Trump announced that the U.S. would cease all participation in the Paris Agreement on climate change mitigation. Trump stated that \"The Paris accord will undermine (the U.S.) economy,\" and \"puts (the U.S.) at a permanent disadvantage.\"\n\nIn Mexico, the economy and population are putting a strain on the environment which has led to increased pollution and natural resources being depleted. Mexico has implemented an environmental, legal and institutional framework to minimize their negative impact on the environment, and it is now commonplace for sustainable development to be incorporated into policymaking. This has resulted in improvements in air quality in urban areas, where previously many more individuals were seeing the negative impacts of pollution on their health. As well, water management has become more decentralized, which has assisted municipalities in developing their own water and waste water infrastructure. This has also resulted in safer drinking water for residents of Mexico.\n\nHowever, there are challenges that persist for Mexico in trying to become more sustainable. One of these challenges is that policymaking needs to be accompanied by capacity building within communities to be able to put policy into practice. Deforestation is also still rampant in Mexico, occurring at one of the highest rates in the world. The OECD recommends strengthening the implementation of legislation concerning nature conservation and reducing pollution using inspections. OECD also recommends increasing the funding Mexico receives from private, public and international sources so that infrastructure, mainly concerning waste water, can be more effectively implemented. Investment in water infrastructure makes up approximately 50% of what Mexico requires, as only one quarter of urban waste water is treated.\n\nA recent collaborative development between all three North American countries is that of the North American Climate, Energy, and Environment Partnership. The partnership was announced by Justin Trudeau, President Barack Obama, and President Enrique Peña Nieto on June 29, 2016, at the North American Leaders Summit in Ottawa, Canada. The central pillars to this partnership include; advancing clean and secure energy; reducing climate pollutants; promoting clean and efficient transportation; protecting nature and advancing science and showing global leadership in addressing climate change.\n\n\nKythreotis, A. (n.d.). Progress in global climate change politics? Reasserting national state territoriality in a ‘post-political’ world. Progress in Human Geography, 36(4), 457-474.\n"}
{"id": "51783667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51783667", "title": "Army Golf Club", "text": "Army Golf Club\n\nArmy Golf Club is a golf club in Dhaka Cantonment, Bangladesh operated by Bangladesh Army. The present president of the club Major General SM Motiur Rahman, afwc,psc \n\nArmy Golf Club was founded on 28 May 2001. It was opened by the first President of the Club and then Chief of Army Staff Lt General M Harun-Ar-Rashid. Bangladesh Golf Academy, first golf academy of Bangladesh was opened on 9 June 2010. The club is affiliated with Kurmitola Golf Club. It has a 9-hole course and over 40 acre in size. Golf garden restaurant is located in the club.\n"}
{"id": "27937342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27937342", "title": "Australian Women's History Forum", "text": "Australian Women's History Forum\n\nThe Australian Women's History Forum (AWHF) is an organisation that exists to enhance the understanding of the role of women in the history of Australia.\n\nThrough its web presence and its sponsorship of Women's History Month (WHM), the AWHF aims to:\n\nWHM, which is celebrated each year in March to coincide with International Women's Day, was initiated in 2000 by Helen Leonard, working with the National Women’s Media Centre and the Women's Electoral Lobby.\n\nSince 2005, each WHM has highlighted a particular area of women's achievement with a different theme celebrated each year. Organisations, institutions and community groups are encouraged to use this theme for their own WHM events through promotional material on the website and are supported by the online calendar where events are listed.\n\nPast themes, such as \"Racy Women\" and \"Musical Belles\"; and more recent themes, such as \"Arm in Arm: Indigenous and non Indigenous Women Working Together\", can be explored in the online Gallery.\n\nIt was Helen's vision, drive and commitment, supported by the technical expertise of Gillian Pollack, which made the establishment of WHM in Australia possible. After Helen’s untimely death in 2001, a group of committed women have continued and developed the work she had begun. In 2007, the original WHM website was upgraded and renamed the AWHF to indicate a more interactive role with its membership – one which would operate not only in March but throughout the entire year. A Historians Reference Group, which was established to provide specialist advice and support to WHM, has continued in this role since the inception of the AWHF.\n\nThe AWHF website is a gateway to online information on women who have shaped Australian history. It is developed as a useful resource for teachers, students, journalists, professional historians, family and local historians, authors, librarians, archivists, curators and collectors. It is an interactive site and it will continue to grow as people add their own histories of not only well known women but also, perhaps more importantly, those thousands of women who have been the unsung trailblazers in our society.\n\nIt features a timeline of key events, a who's who list and a list of historic places of significance to in Australian women's history.\n\nWHM websites from 2002 are archived on the Pandora website and can be accessed through the National Library of Australia.\n\nWomen's History Month\n\nWomen's Electoral Lobby\n\nHistory of Australia\n\nInternational Women's Day\n\n"}
{"id": "31949846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31949846", "title": "Australians in Italy", "text": "Australians in Italy\n\nThere were over 30,000 Australians in Italy as of 2002, including dual citizens (Italian Australians). Approximately two-thirds are settled in Rome while the rest are mainly in Milan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34953334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34953334", "title": "Barakzai", "text": "Barakzai\n\nBārakzai (, \"bārakzay\", plur. \"bārakzī\") is the name of a Pashtun tribe from present-day, Kandahar, Afghanistan. '\"Barakzai\" is a common name among the Pashtuns and it means \"son of Barak\" in Pashto. There are seven distinct Pashtun tribes named Barakzai, with the Zirak branch of the Durrani tribe being the most important and largest tribe with over 4 million people.\n\nLudwig W. Adamec wrote that the Barakzai are \"an important section of the Zirak branch of the Durrani to which the former Barakzai/Muhammadzai ruling family belongs. In numbers, economic, and political strength, the Barakzai were the paramount tribe of Afghanistan...They were soldiers in the service of Nadir Shah, founder of the short-lived Afsharid dynasty in Iran, and were settled on land seized from the Ghilzai. They continued to hold jagirs, fiefs, in exchange for their military services to Ahmad Shah Durrani. When Painda Khan, leader of the Barakzais, was assassinated, the Barakzai chiefs under Dost Muhammad ousted and replaced the Sadduzai dynasty. The Barakzai continue to possess large areas of agricultural land and extensive flocks in the area between Herat and Kandahar.\"\n\nMohammadzai are the most prominent & powerful sub-tribe of Barakzai, they belong to the Zirak branch of the Durrani confederacy, and are primarily centered around Kandahar. They can also be found in other provinces throughout Afghanistan as well across the border in the Pakistan's Balochistan Province.\n\nThe Musahiban, originally the Yahya Khel clan, are descendants of Sultan Mohammad Khan. Mohammadzai Barakzai are closely related to Amanullah Khan.\n\nPayendah Khel are descendants of Payendah Khan, head of the Mohammadzai branch of the Barakzai tribe during the reigns of Timur and Zaman Shah, who became rulers with the decline of the Sadozai dynasty.\n\nThe Tarzi family is a branch of the Mohammadzai of Afghanistan. The founder of Tarzi family was Ghulam Muhammad Tarzi.\n\nFrom 1826 to 1978, most rulers of Afghanistan belonged to the two branches of one Barakzai dynasty descending from the chiefs of the Barakzai tribe (belonging to the Mohammadzai sub-tribe).\n\n\nThe principal language of Barakzai is Pashto. Dari is also used as the language for records and correspondence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3539254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3539254", "title": "Bolton 7", "text": "Bolton 7\n\nThe Bolton 7 were a group of gay and bisexual men who were convicted on 12 January 1998 before Judge Michael Lever at Bolton Crown Court of the offences of gross indecency under the Sexual Offences Act 1956 and of age of consent offences under the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994. Although gay sex was partially decriminalised by the Sexual Offences Act 1967, they were all convicted under section 13 of the 1956 Act because more than two men had sex together, which was still illegal. One of the participants (Craig Turner) was also six months under the statutory age of consent for gay sex which was 18 at the time. \n\nUnder the provisions of the 1967 Act, the age of consent for gay sex was different from that of the heterosexual age of consent of 16, and had only been reduced from 21 to 18 by the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994. Equivalent heterosexual behaviour was not a crime.\n\nThe offences only came to light after police seized videos of the men having sex, which they had filmed for their own personal use. All the men were either lovers, ex-boyfriends, or friends of friends.\n\nDuring sentencing on 20 February 1998 Gary Abdie, David Godfrey, Mark Love and Jonathan Moore (all of whom were in their early 20s), and Craig Turner (17 at the time of the offences but 18 when he appeared in court) were given probation and community service orders. The Judge gave Norman Williams a two-year suspended prison sentence and Terry Connell received a nine-month suspended sentence and was ordered to pay £500 towards the cost of the prosecution. Moore (20), Williams (33) and Connell (55) were also required to sign the Sex Offenders Register for the age of consent offences committed with Turner. Estimates of the overall cost of the prosecution were in the region of £500,000.\n\nDespite their convictions, none of them received custodial sentences possibly as a result of a high-profile campaign led by gay human rights group OutRage!. Over 400 letters were presented to the court in support of the men including those from MPs, Bishops and human rights groups. The letters urged the judge not to impose a custodial sentence, with one group, Amnesty International, pledging to declare the men prisoners of conscience should they be imprisoned.\n\nIn 2000, six of the men appealed to the European Court of Human Rights arguing that the prosecutions against them had violated their rights under the European Convention on Human Rights by interfering with 'the right to respect for a private family life' enshrined in article 8 of the Convention. They were subsequently awarded compensation. As Williams was not part of the litigation, he was not deemed eligible by the Home Office for the compensation.\n\nLegislation subsequently introduced by the Labour Government has broadly equalised the treatment of homosexual and heterosexual behaviours in criminal law. The Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act 2000 equalised the age of consent for gay sex with that of the heterosexual age of consent which is now 16 for both. The Sexual Offences Act 2003, though subject to some controversy, introduced an overhaul in the way sexual offences are dealt with by the police and courts, replacing provisions that date as far back to the 1956 legislation. The offences of gross indecency and buggery have been repealed and sexual activity between more than two men is no longer a crime in the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "43246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43246", "title": "Coalition for Positive Sexuality", "text": "Coalition for Positive Sexuality\n\nCoalition for Positive Sexuality is an internet-based comprehensive sexuality education website, for youth and young adults.\n\nThe most commonly used feature of the CPS website is the \"Let's Talk\" feature, which allows youth members to post anonymously and receive answers to sexual health-related questions from moderators.\n\nCPS staff and moderators are graduate and doctoral-level health educators, researchers, legal professionals, counselors and advocates with years of professional experience addressing myriad adolescent health issues, including teen pregnancy prevention, sexual orientation, reproductive health laws, and sexually transmitted infections (STI) and HIV/AIDS prevention.\n\nhttp://www.positive.org\n\nHealth education\n"}
{"id": "39752181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39752181", "title": "Corruption in Brazil", "text": "Corruption in Brazil\n\nCorruption in Brazil exists on all levels of society from the top echelons of political power to the smallest municipalities. Operation Car Wash showed central government members using the prerogatives of their public office for rent-seeking activities, ranging from political support to siphoning funds from state-owned corporation for personal gain. Specifically, \"mensalão\" typically referred to the practice of transferring taxpayer funds as monthly allowances to members of congress from other political parties in consideration for their support and votes in congress. Politicians used the state-owned and state-run oil company Petrobras to raise hundreds of millions of reais for political campaigns and personal enrichment.\n\nCorruption was cited among many issues that provoked the 2013 protests. Corruption reduced public investments in health, education, infrastructure, security, housing, among other essential rights, expanding social exclusion and inequality.\n\nAll types of corruption exist. Clientilism, cronyism and nepotism are widespread in Brazil, and many critics mention how some of the members of Brazilian Supreme Court are seen openly mingling with politicians. Bribery (called \"propina\" or \"suborno\" in Portuguese) is also rife in the police force and throughout the Brazilian bureaucracy. But one of the most common types of corruption in Brazil is embezzlement of public funds through overbilling, called \"superfaturamento\" in Portuguese (literally \"super invoicing\"). This technique allows individuals to make financial gains, and also finance political campaigns (as seen in the Petrobras scandal), and is closely linked to public contracts with private enterprises. Construction is a prime example, for example in building roads, sewage, and public buildings. It is estimated that 30% of all Brazilian public funds are embezzled this way each year. Petrobras president Aldemir Bendine in 2015 estimated the companies losses to corruption scandals at $2 billion US. The company's stock declined, although it later began to recover.\n\nThe scale of corruption in Brazil is immense, but largely under-reported in the media and historically not investigated, prosecuted or punished, so it is difficult to estimate just how large the problem is. The Car Wash (Lava Jato) investigation may be changing this trend. Corruption in Brazil increases the already enormous Brazilian shadow economy which some sources estimate at 16.1% of the gross domestic product, a number that probably needs to be adjusted up considerably if corruption as such is included as part of the shadow economy. Transparency International's 2016 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 79th place out of 176 countries\n\nPolitical corruption is considered to be widespread in Brazil. A series of sources documenting historical corruption have only recently started to be published, some of them with references up to Colonial times. A unique complex network analysis revealed associations between those involved in corruption scandals included not only active (elected and non-elected) politicians, but also companies, both state-owned and private companies which had been favored in selection processes for execution of large infrastructure projects, some of which were cited both in the Panama Papers and Paradise Papers. \nThe complexity of such corruption networks has been compared to the mafia, drug traffic networks and terrorist networks.\n\nThe practice of \"superfaturamento\"—overbilling—in Brazil is considered to be extremely common in contracts and purchases for public institutions. Recent examples have been reported in small primary schools where products like pencils and notebooks were bought with padded invoices, as well as in grand-scale construction projects roads, football stadiums(not least in connection with large scale events such as the Olympics and FIFA's World Cup). A particularly sad example is the city of Brasilia itself, which historians believe was systematically overpriced when built in the early 1960s.\n\nLittle evidence of corruption became public during the Military Dictatorship era (1964-1988). However, several cases increasingly are becoming public and were reviewed in books including Elio Gaspari's series, historical analyses and in the news. Cases include from smuggling of whiskey and luxury clothes to outright to outright extorsion of companies by Military-appointed governors (such as Haroldo Leon Peres in the state of Paraná), favoring of their companies in contractor licensing (such as Antonio Carlos Magalhães and Magnesita), and using public money to save their own companies from bankruptcy (Paulo Maluf and his wife Sylvia in the Lutfalla case). British documents pointed out a number of other cases which were muffled in the 1970s referring to overpriced purchase of UK equipment for construction of ships in Brazil.\n\nWith the fall of the Military dictatorship, with the start of redemocratization process, accusations of corruption started to hit the news and receive attention, involving all levels of government, including then-president José Sarney, although the accusations ceased to be processed in the National Congress. The main citations referred to overbilling and irregularities in public infrastructure projects in collaboration with private companies, such as the case of the Ferrovia Norte-Sul (Norte-Sul Railway). Sarney was also accused of practicing nepotism, favouring relatives and friends in radio and TV concessions. The dissatisfaction led part of the Partido do Movimento Democrático Brasileiro (PMDB) to leave and establish the Partido da Social Democracia Brasileira (PSDB). The apex of the political crisis occurred during the production of the new Constitution, at the Assembleia Nacional Constituinte de 1987, where the length of Sarney's government was put in check, and in the end kept at 5 years, as opposed to 4.\n\nA Parlamentary Investigation Commission (CPI) was started in 1988 to investigate the corruption accusations, and several requests for impeachment were filed.\n\nOne of the most notorious cases of corruption scandals resulted in the fall of President Fernando Collor de Mello, indicated as the first Latin American president to suffer an actual impeachment process.\n\nThe first accusations appeared right in the second semester of Collor's government. The then president of Petrobras, Luís Octávio da Motta Veiga, quit, allegating he was under pressure from the former financial secretary of Collor's campaign, Paulo César Farias (\"PC Farias\"), and the president's brother-in-law, ambassador Marcos Coimbra, to offer loans to the airline company VASP, which had been recently privatized. In 1991 the First Lady Rosane Collor was accused of irregularities at the charity Legião Brasileira de Assistência (LBA). In May 1992, Pedro Collor, the president's brother, accused PC Farias of illicit enrichment and being a \"goon\" for the president in his business in an interview to Veja.\n\nThe scandals piled up until 1993, when another Parliament Investigation Committee (CPI) was established, which became popularly known as the \"CPI do Orçamento\", presided by then-senator Jarbas Passarinho. However, in 2014, the accusations were removed by the Supremo Tribunal Federal and Collor was exculpate.\n\nFernando Henrique Cardoso's government led by the Brazilian Social Democracy Party (PSDB) was also hit by a series of corruption accusations, firstly regarding federal \"help\" offered to banks such Nacional and Econômico, and the creation of the Programa de Estímulo à Reestruturação e ao Fortalecimento do Sistema Financeiro Nacional (Proer).\n\nMany of the issues were identified in privatization of State companies. One of the people cited in accusations was former director of Banco do Brasil, Ricardo Sérgio de Oliveira, which was on charge of financial resources for FHC's campaign, and who would have favored business with a consortium formed with Telecom Itália and Daniel Dantas' Opportunity Asset bank. Phone call recordings were central to several accusations regarding PSDB. Conversations between the minister of Communiations, Luiz Carlos Mendonça de Barros, and the then-president of the Brazilian Development Bank, BNDES, André Lara Resende, demonstrated the efforts to bennefit the Opportunity consortium.\n\nProbably the worst accusations referred to the purchase of Congress votes to introduce a constitutional amendment to allow for the reelection of Executive roles, namely the President's. Telephone recordings leaked by Folha de S.Paulo in 1997 revealed conversations between representative Ronivon Santiago (Progressistas Party - State of Acre) and a \"Senhor X\", where Santiago reports to have received, along with another four representatives, 200 thousand reais to vote for the reelection amendment, which had been paid by the then governor of the state of Acre, Orleir Cameli.\n\nBy the end of 2000-2001, the attentions in FHC's government had moved from the corruption accusations to the energy crisis (\"Crise do Apagão\"), which happened right after the wave of blackouts started in 1999. The 1999 blackout was blamed on a lightning strike, although researchers at the National Institute for Space Research (INPE) demonstrated the official version to not hold. FHC tried to awart a similar crisis in 2001 by imposing energy rationing.\n\nWhile Lula was in office reports surfaced of payments made to deputies in return for a pledge to support the government with their votes in Congress. According to investigators more than a dozen construction companies bribed or gave kickbacks to corrupt politicians in return for profitable contracts with state-owned petroleum company Petrobras. Former president of Jose Aldemario Pinheiro and OAS executive Agenor Medeiros each were sentenced to 16 years incarceration on 6 August 2015. Three other OAS employees received shorter sentences.\n\nOperation Car Wash is an investigation being carried out by the Federal Police of Brazil, Curitiba Branch, and judicially ordered by Judge Sérgio Moro on March 17, 2014. Initially a money laundering investigation, it expanded to cover allegations of corruption at the state-owned oil company Petrobras, whose executives took kickbacks for awarding contracts to construction firms at inflated prices. The operation has issued more than a hundred search warrants, and ordered temporary and preventive detention and coercive measures in its investigation of a money laundering scheme suspected of moving more than \" (approximately ) as of November 22, 2016. Because of the unusual nature of its actions, defendants' lawyers accuse the operation of \"selectivity\" and \"partiality\", and of being \"a criminal case that violated minimum rules of defense for a large number of defendants\".\n\nThroughout the investigation, former Brazilian president Dilma Rousseff, who chaired the board of Petrobras from 2003 to 2010, denied knowledge of any wrongdoing The Brazilian Supreme Court authorized the investigation of 48 current and former legislators, including former president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, in March 2016.\n\nOperation Car Wash has greatly impacted Brazilian politics, resulting in the arrest of many important political figures, including:\n\nTo counteract widespread corruption in the private and public sector, Brazil enacted the Clean Company Act 2014 (Law No. 12, 846), which held companies responsible for the corrupt practices of their employees and liable without a finding of fault. Bid rigging and fraud are prohibited in public procurement, as well as bribery of Brazilian public officials. If found guilty of corruption the companies can be suspended, dissolved or fined.\n\nBased on data released by the Superior Electoral Court, the Movement to Combat Electoral Corruption released a balance on 4 October 2007 with the parties that include the largest number of parliamentarians quashed by electoral corruption since 2000. The Brazilian Social Democracy Party appeared in third place on the list with 58 cases, behind only the Democrats and the Brazilian Democratic Movement.\n\nAccording to analysis released on 8 September 2012, of 317 Brazilian politicians who were barred from running in elections by the Clean Record Act the Brazilian Social Democracy Party is the party that has the largest number of barred candidates with 56 party members.\n\n"}
{"id": "30378194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30378194", "title": "Croats of Belgium", "text": "Croats of Belgium\n\nCroats of Belgium are an ethnic group in Belgium. About 10,000 of Belgians stated that they have Croatian roots, according to the Croatian associations and Catholic missions. They appeared in Belgium for the first time during the Thirty years' war, as a part of Austrian and French cavalry. Even today, the exact number of Croats in Belgium is unknown, mostly because they were considered as Yugoslavs by Belgian government. During the last years, number of Croats in Belgium is increasing because of immigrants from Bosnia and Herzegovina. The number of Croats didn't pass the number of 10,000 since the World War II when Croatia was part of a larger country Yugoslavia.\n\nCharles V, Holy Roman Emperor had settled Croats in Flanders around the Dunkerque (then \"Duinkerken\") to serve him as soldiers. Later, Croatian travel writer, Feliks Gladić, in 17th century found that there are still Croats in Belgium, who still speak Croatian language. Those Croats were Uskoks from Senj.\n\nIn that time, Dunkerque was part of Netherlands as whole Belgium also. In year 1662 town of Dunkerque became part of France as King of England, Charles II sold it to the French.\n\nAs Belgium was one of the most developed states in Europe in early 20th century, part of Croats emigrated in it searching for better life. Moreover, the first wave of emigration started with creation of Kingdom of Yugoslavia and because of anti-Croatian politics of that state in 1918. Most of emigrants were peasants and workers from Bosnia, Herzegovina, Dalmatia and Lika.\nCroats were mostly workers at steel foundry, ironworks, mines of coal and such. At first, Croats done the hardest jobs, but they were highly respected for their famous devoted work and cleverness. Soon, Croats become employers and chiefs to some Belgians.\n\nAfter the assassination of Stjepan Radić and of Yugoslav King Alexander I in 1928-1929, and the consequent repression against Croatian nationalism, the number of Croats in Belgium increased, including many members of the Ustaše movement, secretly active also in Belgium, among which the Herzegovinian Croat general Rafael Boban, later US Army officer. \n\nAt the time, the number of Croats in Belgium was 25,000 to 30,000. Most of Croats resided in Wallonia in the cities of Liège and Charleroi and in their surroundings. \n\nIn 1932, under the influence of the brothers Antun and Stjepan Radić, Belgian Croats founded the first branch of the Croatian Peasant Party abroad in Jemeppe-sur-Sambre near Liège. The branch was later registered as the Mutual Aid Association \"Croatian Peasant Party\" (). They couldn't act like a political organization because of Belgian laws and the protests of the Yugoslav government.\n\nBefore World War II only a small number of Croats had university degrees - among them dr. Ivan Puljić and economist Ante Klarić. In time of World War II most of Croats had stayed in Belgium, only the members of Ustaše left the country for Croatia. After the war, big part of Croats leaves industrial sector and employees in the trade sector, where they have big successes. Also, big number of Croats arrives in new, communist Yugoslavia, but soon, disappointed with communist policy, they again leave the country, but this time they emigrate to overseas. Croats that remained in Belgium married with Belgian women, because number of Croats in Belgium at the time was very small.\n\nThe first part of the second wave of immigration was composed of political emigrants. Thousands of Croats flees SFR Yugoslavia, big part of them were former Ustaše and Domobran soldiers. Most of those Ustaše emigrants soon left Belgium for other destinations overseas (Canada, United States, Australia). Those political emigrants who stayed in Belgium received asylum from United Nations.\n\nAlso thanks to this new influx, the Croatian Peasant Party in Belgium saw a revival; the party leader, Vladko Maček, resided in exile in Paris until death in 1964. The branch organised ceremonies, cultural programs and celebrations on the anniversary of the death of Stjepan Radić. There was also a Croatian National Committee in Belgium. They convened a Second Assembly in Brussels in 1977, which was met with fierce criticism from the Yugoslav government. Assemblies of Croats were also organized by the priests who gather them on ceremonies and mass.\n\nThe Croatian Peasant Party also organised a trade union, the Croatian Worker's Union (\"Hrvatski radnički savez\"), with headquarters in Charleroi. There were also few sport and cultural societies, of which some are still active today. Among others, there were also few Yugoslav clubs under the patronage of the Yugoslav embassy, which served for espionage of Croats in Belgium.\n\nExcept for a few newsletters, there was also a monthly newspapers \"Hrvatski glas\" (\"Croatian voice\") that had been published in the 1950s and 1960s as formal newspapers of Croatian Peasant Party in Europe. They were edited by Oton Orešković, who was a former quartermaster of Croatian National Theatre. Those newspapers were printed on their own linotype which was a gift from the American trade union AFL-CIO to the Croatian Worker's Union. Oton Orešković, in cooperation with Delonoy published a comprehensive study in the review \"Historia\" on Ante Pavelić's rise to power until his life in exile.\n\nA further wave of immigration started after the quelling of the Croatian Spring by the Yugoslav communist regime in 1971. Thousands of Croats fleed again to Belgium, some of them individually and some with their family. Most of them Croats soon left Belgium for Canada and Australia, smaller part went in United States, New Zealand and South America. Also, some of them scattered all around Europe. Soon Croats with higher education also moved from Belgium.\nAfter the 1970s and the death of communist dictator Josip Broz Tito, only Croats who worked for Yugoslav companies arrived in Belgium.\n\nThe real political life of Belgian Croats started with the foundation of Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ) and arrival of Franjo Tuđman on the Croatian political scene. The first Croats of Belgium registered as HDZ members even before the first democratic elections. With sequence of events, Croats of Belgium founded branches of Croatian Democratic Union (in 1990 and 1991) in Antwerp, Brussels and Liège. The founders were later immigrants who came after World War II, and in less numbers, heirs of immigrants from the first wave of immigration. Croats in Belgium mostly helped financially by sending money to hospitals, charities and military budget. The money came mainly through HDZ branches.\nAt the start of Croatian Homeland War, Belgian Croats founded Croatian Supplementary School, under patronage of the Croatian Ministry of Education.\n\nCroatian political organizations that are still active are branches of Croatian Democratic Union, Croatian Peasant Party and Croatian Liberation Movement. Other active Croatian organizations are the Sport and Cultural Society \"Croatia\" from Antwerp, \"SOS-Croatia\" from Merchtem near Brussels, \"HNK Croatia\" (Croatian National Theater \"Croatia\") in Liège, association of Croatian students \"AMAC\" in Brussels, charity organization \"Edmond Jardas\" (they are mostly helping children of killed Croatian soldiers), Cultural society \"Vatroslav Lisinski\" from Liège, \"Hrvatski radio sat\" (\"Croatian Radio Hour\") from Liège (founded by members of HSK and Belgian-born Croats, promoting Croatian culture, tourism and return of Croats back to homeland). The head organization is the Croatian World Congress of Belgium led by Dr. Miroslav Klarić. \n\nOne of the most important factors in saving of Croatian identity in Belgium is the Catholic Church. Because of misunderstanding of Croatian emigration and Government in Croatia those organizations and societies are being reduced.\n\nIt is difficult to determine with certainty the number, age structure of Croats in Belgium, their economic status and level of national identity, especially among the descendants of the first settlers. The biggest number of Croats, 5,000-6,000 from first and third generation, still live in Wallonia in area Liège. Croatian immigrants from the first wave of immigration who moved to Belgium in the late 1920s are almost all dead, so their children and later immigrants represent the Croats of Belgium. A very small number of Croats have returned to their homeland, especially the heirs of the first immigrants. \n\nLater, most Croatian immigrants settled around the area of Brussels and Antwerp in Flanders where the economic situation is nowadays better. The Croatian national identity is still strong, even with the third generation of immigrants, even though there is a small number of those who know they are Croats, but Croatia doesn't mean much to them. Also, there are increasing applications at Croatian schools and interest in the Croatian language. The first generation were mostly workers, while the second and third generation had better education and employment.\n\nThe contribution of Croats to development of Belgium is mostly due to hard-working Croats who worked in Belgian factories and mines. After World War II, Croats of Belgium had three university professors: Dr. Zvonimir Pintarović, geneticist; Dr. Miroslav Radman, sociologist; Danilo Klarić and other few doctors, professors, lawyers, economists, academic painters and architects.\n\nBesides, Croats also contributed to the Belgian sports. The most famous sportsmen are Tomislav Ivić, Mario Stanić, Robert Špehar, Josip Weber and others. Few Croats also successfully imported canned fish, medicinal plants and vines (Fabris, Divić, Vunić). Croats also work in catering, radios and various Belgian ministries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1975332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1975332", "title": "Crown of Empress Eugénie", "text": "Crown of Empress Eugénie\n\nAfter her husband was overthrown in 1870, following the Franco-Prussian War, Napoleon and Eugénie lived in exile in the United Kingdom. She died in 1920.\n\nThough most of the French Crown Jewels were sold by the Third Republic in 1885, the Crown of Empress Eugénie was kept and is on display in the Louvre museum in Paris.\n\n"}
{"id": "46365712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46365712", "title": "David Bruck", "text": "David Bruck\n\nDavid Isaac Bruck (born 1949) is an American criminal defense attorney, clinical professor of law at Washington and Lee University School of Law, and director of the Virginia Capital Case Clearinghouse. Bruck has represented several high-profile defendants.\n\nBruck was born and raised in Montreal, Quebec, Canada to an affluent family. Bruck is one of three children of Gerald, a retired textile executive, and Nina, a photographer.\n\nWhile an undergraduate at Harvard College, Bruck became involved in the anti-Vietnam War movement. Bruck was a contributor to \"The Harvard Crimson\". In one piece, he called on students to refuse to take their finals in protest of Harvard University. Bruck earned a Bachelor of Arts \"magna cum laude\" from Harvard College in 1971.\n\nAfter college, Bruck attended University of South Carolina School of Law. He went to law school at the University of South Carolina so that he could advise reluctant inductees at the Army's Fort Jackson. During law school, Bruck worked as a welder to pay for his schooling because he didn't want to be beholden to his family. While at the University of South Carolina, he met his friend and colleague Judy Clarke. He earned his law degree \"cum laude\" in 1975. Before beginning his law practice, he travelled throughout the United States and Canada.\n\nBruck eventually returned to South Carolina to represent clients facing the death penalty because he did not believe these defendants were receiving adequate representation. Bruck was also disturbed that the death row population consisted mostly of poor black men. One fellow law school classmates said of Bruck: \"He wanted to assist people who were defenseless. Many of us felt that way in school, but David was one of the few who devoted his career to it.\"\n\nFrom 1976-1980, Bruck worked as a public defender in South Carolina. From 1980-1988, Bruck worked in private practice. From 1989-92, Bruck was the Chief Attorney of the South Carolina Office of Appellate Defense. From 1992-2004, Bruck returned to private practice. Since 1992, Bruck served as Federal Death Penalty Resource Counsel to the federal defender program. Bruck represented Zayd Hassan Abd al-Latif Masud al-Safarini who received a life sentence for his role in the 1986 hijacking of Pan Am Flight 73 in Pakistan in which 22 people were killed. David Bruck handled as many death penalty cases as he could in South Carolina. Bruck represented dozens of people charged with capital murder before juries or on post-conviction. Before his representation of Susan Smith in 1995, Bruck had only lost three to death sentences. Bruck saved many of his clients by winning new trials that resulted in life sentences and in one case, an acquittal. Bruck has argued several cases before the United States Supreme Court, prevailing in six of them: Kelly v. South Carolina (2002), Shafer v. South Carolina (2001), Ramdass v. Angelone (2000), Simmons v. South Carolina (1994), Yates v. Evatt (1991), Yates v. Aiken (1988), Skipper v. South Carolina (1986).\n\nIn 1995, Bruck and Judy Clarke served as co-counsel for Susan Smith, the South Carolina woman who faced the death penalty in South Carolina Circuit Court for killing her two sons. Bruck became friends with Clarke during law school, and recruited her for the case.\n\nIn their opening statement, Clarke argued Smith was deeply troubled and suffered from severe depression. Clarke told the jury: \"This is not a case about evil.This is a case about despair and sadness.\" The defense's theory of the case was that Smith drove to the edge of the lake to kill herself and her two sons, but her body willed itself out of the car. The prosecution, on the other hand, believed Smith murdered her children in order to start a new life with a former lover. It only took the jury two and a half hours to convict her of murdering her two sons. During the penalty phase, Tommy Pope, the lead prosecutor in the Smith case, argued passionately in favor of sentencing Smith to death. But the jury ultimately voted against imposing the death penalty.\n\nIn 2002, he began teaching at Washington & Lee University School of Law. Since 2004, he has been a clinical professor of law and director of the Virginia Capital Case Clearinghouse.\n\nIn 2014, Bruck was appointed to the defense team working with Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Clarke described Bruck as \"one of the most experienced and well-regarded capital defense attorneys in the United States.\" A federal jury convicted Tsarnaev of all 30 charges against him and found him responsible for the deaths of the three people killed in the 2013 attack and the killing of an MIT police officer three days later. The same jury sentenced Tsarnaev to death.\n\nDylann Roof, the killer of nine people in the Charleston church shooting, represented himself in federal court, with Bruck as stand-by counsel. Roof was convicted by jury on all 33 counts on December 15, 2016. On January 10th, 2017, after three hours of jury deliberation Dylann Roof was sentenced to death.\n\nBruck opposes capital punishment. He said of the practice: \"I find the cold-bloodedness of the whole ritual appalling. To take somebody...and so premeditatedly set about exterminating them.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53671031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53671031", "title": "Death of Wichian Klanprasert", "text": "Death of Wichian Klanprasert\n\nWichian Klanprasert, a Thai police officer, allegedly was killed by Vorayuth Yoovidhya, grandson of billionaire Red Bull co-founder Chaleo Yoovidhya, in a hit-and-run incident in Bangkok, Thailand, on 3 September 2012.\n\nVorayuth was charged with speeding, fleeing the scene of an accident, and reckless driving causing death, but has never been arrested. The statute of limitations on the speeding charge expired in September 2013, and on the fleeing the scene of an accident charge in September 2017.\n\nThe case is widely seen as an example of how the affluent in Thai society are able to escape the criminal justice system.\n\nWichian, a Thai police senior sergeant-major, was riding a motorcycle when he was hit by a speeding Ferrari which dragged his body along the road for over 100 metres before it fled the scene. The Ferrari was later found to have been driven by Vorayuth, a grandson of billionaire Red Bull co-founder Chaleo Yoovidhya. Vorauth's lawyer later claimed that Vorayuth's high blood alcohol levels were due to his drinking at home due to stress following the accident and that he had left the scene to inform his family of what had happened. Vorayuth initially claimed that Suwet Hom-ubol, Vorayuth's aide and chauffeur, had been behind the wheel during the incident, but later admitted to driving the car himself. Suwet would later be charged with making false statements to the police. An investigating police officer, Pol Lt Colonel Pannaphol Nammueng, allegedly urged Suwet to pretend to be the Ferrari driver in the fatal hit-and-run. The case has caused continuing outrage in Thailand.\n\nDespite assurances by then-Police Commissioner Comronwit Toopgrajank that the case would be taken seriously, as of April 2017 Vorayuth had yet to be indicted, as his lawyers had repeatedly postponed summons by the attorney-general, claiming illness, overseas business and unfair treatment, and the statute of limitations expired for several charges.\n\nIn April 2017, Vorayuth failed for the eighth time to appear in court to answer the charges against him, citing work commitments.\n\nOn 28 April 2017 the criminal court approved an arrest warrant for Vorayuth, however he had already fled to Singapore, where he abandoned his private jet. Interpol confirmed that Vorayuth left Singapore on 27 April. Thai police requested that his Thai passport be cancelled and this was done in early-May 2017.\n\nOn 28 August 2017 Interpol, at the request of the Thai police, issued a Red Notice for the arrest of Vorayuth.\n\n"}
{"id": "40708094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40708094", "title": "Domestic violence in South Africa", "text": "Domestic violence in South Africa\n\nDomestic violence in South Africa has been viewed as a private matter until the last few decades. In the 2012 financial year, just over one-third of the crimes against women that had been reported were prosecuted in court. Legislation has been passed to help improve the quality of life for those being abused and to prevent further abuse. Although the movement against domestic violence is a relatively new movement, it has making great strides in the country since the 1990s.\n\nThe South African Domestic Violence Act 1998 defines domestic violence as: Physical abuse; sexual abuse; emotional, verbal and psychological abuse; economic abuse; intimidation; harassment; stalking; damage to property; entry into the complainant's residence without consent, where the parties do not share the same residence; or any other controlling or abusive behavior towards a complainant, where such conduct harms, or may cause imminent harm to, the safety, health or wellbeing of the complainant.\n\nThe South African Medical Council released a study in 1998 saying that out of the 1,394 men interviewed, 50% physically abused their female partners at their homes. Considering how recently domestic violence has come to light, it is still considered an early movement. The United Nations found that violence against women was a universal problem. Another study done in 2010 found that a majority of men and over half of women that were surveyed believed that women should obey their husbands. It is not uncommon for the abuse to begin while the girls are still teenagers. It is not uncommon for women to tolerate the abuse they are receiving because it is such a common practice in South Africa.\n\nIn a study done by the World Health Organization, it was found that 60,000 women and children are victims of domestic violence in South Africa. It is hard to gather accurate statistical data in South Africa because domestic violence is rarely reported. On average, in a cross-sectional study conducted in 2002, the women who were abused came from a lower secondary education and were unemployed. The same study indicated that 9.5 percent of women reported being abused within the past year (working back from 2002); in some areas of the country it rose to 28.4 percent of women who reported being abused. In 2013, 50 percent of the women surveyed reported that they had suffered emotional and verbal abuse. Of the women who were in violent relationships, 45.9 percent of them reported injury. In the same study it was found that typically the women who do witness and feel the violence come from a rural childhood compared to those raised in an urban area. Although there are many places that do offer help to those suffering from domestic violence, those resources are more available in urban areas. In rural areas it is harder to access proper resources. Nearly half of the female murders that happened in 1999 in South Africa resulted from domestic violence. The percentage of women who reported experiencing domestic violence at least once in their lifetime is as high as 59 percent.\n\nIn a study conducted in 2002 by R. Jewkes et al. 24.6% of all women, and 24.3% of black African women, experienced physical violence during their lifetime. Black African women were less likely to ever experience physical violence or to experience physical violence in the past year than were women of other races. The women in this sample were from the province of Eastern Cape, Mpumalanga, and Northern Province with a mean age of 31.\n\nRecent research has found that binge drinking was associated with intimate partner violence perpetration, and that problematic alcohol use can be a predictor of intimate partner violence and domestic violence perpetration. Additionally, men with a history of exposure to violence were more likely to have difficulty with self-control as it relates to violence towards a partner in certain situations compared to men without a history of exposure to violence.\n\nIn 2012 South Africa was called the \"rape capital of the world\" when less than 1% of rapes that occur are reported to the police. The South African Medical Research Council did an electronic anonymous survey, interviewing just over 1,700 men, that found that one in four males had raped; 73% of those men surveyed had raped before the age of 20. Within rural South Africa there is a higher rate of HIV between partners. In Limpopo, a team of researches traveled to rural villages to implement a three-part trial to test if intervention within relationships that had domestic violence and/ or HIV prevalence in the home. The homes where the researchers just assisted with the problems of domestic violence were able to reduce the prevalence by 55%, but did not effect those who had unprotected sexual intercourse with a non-spousal partner. Although the rate of domestic violence within these small villages did get reduced; the rate of those having unprotected intercourse after being exposed, and diagnosed with HIV, did not go down. According to reports by the U.N., South Africa has one of the highest rates of HIV/AIDS in the world.\n\nUntil South Africa established multiracial democracy in the 1990s, no law to define domestic violence or protect those who are victims of domestic violence ever existed.\nWithin South Africa, the 1996 Constitution says in section 12c that: \"Everyone has the right to freedom and security of person, that includes the right to be free from violence from either public and private sources.\" The constitution also takes time to highlight that South Africa is based on \"non-sexism\" values.\n\nMany successful policies have been put in place to help, mostly women, find help escape or refuge from the violence. Human rights throughout the world have viewed sexual violence as a negative situation. After the United Nations held multiple human rights conventions (including the World Conference on Human Rights (1993), International Conference on Population and Development (1994), and the Fourth World Conference on Women (1995) the global agenda for violence against women changed. The advocacy group Soul City broadcast a show on TV and radio in 1995 that highlighted the issues associated with domestic violence. Soul City, along with the National Network on Violence against Women, set up a 24-hour crisis telephone line to help vulnerable women who are struggling with domestic violence.\n\nIn 1998, South Africa introduced the Domestic Violence Act to try and protect those who are being abused or might be forced into a situation that could become harmful in the future. At the time, the biggest assistance to women came from the Protection Order that derives from the Domestic Violent Act. The Protection Order permits the courts to prevent the accused from continuing abuse. The collaboration process between representatives of the Department of Justice, Safety and Security, Health Education, Welfare, Correctional Services and the National Directorate for Public Prosecution was a delaying factor that slowed down the process of changing the policies. Within the first year of the Domestic Violence Act being created, 1,696 applications were submitted for protective orders. In a report done by the United Nations Division of the Advancement of Women, they discovered about the protective orders that women were able to fill out, that the forms were only available in two out of the eleven languages that are spoken in South Africa. Other reforms that were created were to sentence mandatory minimal time for specific types of rape under the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1997.\nOscar Pistorius was accused and charged with murdering his girlfriend on February 14, 2013. The \"Blade Runner\", as he is known, shot 30-year-old model Reeva Steenkamp through the bathroom door of their home with a 9mm pistol he said he kept under his bed. Oscar Pistorius, who was 27 years old at the time of the shooting, stated that he believed it was an intruder in the bathroom, and not his girlfriend, after hearing the sound of the window being opened. The couple had been in a relationship since 2012 after attending an award show together. Pistorius’ previous girlfriend, model Samantha Taylor, was put on the stand during the trial to testify about Pistorius' gun use prior to the February 14 shooting. In Taylor's statement, she described Pistorius always having his gun with him, even when visiting friends, and frequently waking up during the night in fear about potential intruders. The prosecutors also believe that Pistorius had shot Steenkamp because of arguments they had had earlier that day.\n\nActress Charlize Theron grew up in a home where she witnessed such abuse. She is known for starring in various films such as: \"Italian Job\", \"Snow White and the Huntsman\", and \"Hancock\". Theron grew up outside Johannesburg with her parents. Theron's father was an alcoholic and threatened her and her mother one night. During that incident, Theron's mother shot and killed the father, but was not charged because it was ruled as self-defence.\nTalk show host Trevor Noah grew up in a household where his mother faced such abuse. his mother had been shot by his step-father and survived by a miracle \n\n"}
{"id": "52958289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52958289", "title": "Esendex", "text": "Esendex\n\nEsendex is an international mobile communications provider with customers in the United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Spain, Australia, the United States, and DACH territories. Headquartered in Nottingham, England, the company also has branches in Barcelona and Melbourne. The company's services are used by more than 13,000 businesses around the world.\n\nEsendex was formed in 2001 by Julian Hucker and Adam Bird in Nottingham, United Kingdom to provide bulk SMS services to businesses.\n\nIn 2013, Darwin Private Equity acquired Esendex for £11 million and at the end of the year, Esendex acquired Text Marketer a UK-based SMS provider as part of an acquisition strategy.\nDerby-based intelligent multi-channel messaging provider, Collstream, was acquired by Esendex in 2014, providing the company with a range of voice solutions and IVR services.\n\nIn 2017, backed by European technology investor HgCapital, Esendex purchased SMSpubli (Spain), and joined with Mobyt (Italy) and SMS Envoi (France), forming one of Europe's largest business messaging companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1871417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1871417", "title": "Exit, Voice, and Loyalty", "text": "Exit, Voice, and Loyalty\n\nExit, Voice, and Loyalty (1970) is a treatise written by Albert O. Hirschman (1915—2012). The work hinges on a conceptual ultimatum that confronts consumers in the face of deteriorating quality of goods: either \"exit\" or \"voice\".\n\nThe basic concept is as follows: members of an organization, whether a business, a nation or any other form of human grouping, have essentially two possible responses when they perceive that the organization is demonstrating a decrease in quality or benefit to the member: they can \"exit\" (withdraw from the relationship); or, they can \"voice\" (attempt to repair or improve the relationship through communication of the complaint, grievance or proposal for change). For example, the citizens of a country may respond to increasing political repression in two ways: emigrate or protest. Similarly, employees can choose to quit their unpleasant job, or express their concerns in an effort to improve the situation. Disgruntled customers can choose to shop elsewhere, or they ask for the manager.\n\nExit and voice themselves represent a union between economic and political action. Exit is associated with Adam Smith's invisible hand, in which buyers and sellers are free to move silently through the market, constantly forming and destroying relationships. Voice, on the other hand, is by nature political and at times confrontational.\n\nWhile both exit and voice can be used to measure a decline in an organization, voice is by nature more informative in that it also provides reasons for the decline. Exit, taken alone, only provides the warning sign of decline. Exit and voice also interact in unique and sometimes unexpected ways; by providing greater opportunity for feedback and criticism, exit can be reduced; conversely, stifling of dissent leads to increased pressure for members of the organization to use the only other means available to express discontent, departure. The general principle, therefore, is that the greater the availability of exit, the less likely voice will be used. However, the interplay of \"loyalty\" can affect the cost-benefit analysis of whether to use exit or voice. Where there is loyalty to the organization (as evidenced by strong patriotism politically, or brand loyalty for consumers), exit may be reduced, especially where options to exit are not so appealing (small job market, political or financial hurdles to emigration or moving). Loyal members become especially devoted to the organization's success when their voice will be heard and when they can reform it.\n\nBy understanding the relationship between exit and voice, and the interplay that loyalty has with these choices, organizations can craft the means to better address their members' concerns and issues, and thereby effect improvement. Failure to understand these competing pressures can lead to organizational decline and possible failure.\n\nMembership organizations, whether they be professional, community-based or business-oriented, face the perpetual challenge of knowing how engaged members are; how likely they are to remain members; and when they might cease to be members. Exit, Voice and Loyalty can be observed, reviewed and addressed as a matter of course, and in a learning organization, can result in reduced member \"churn\" and increased growth in member satisfaction, loyalty, referrals and growth. This usually entails some sort of survey efforts, social media inquiries, polling and individual interviews and/or group to maintain the necessary information for the organization to adapt to its members' needs.\n\nSome studies confirm Hirschman's assertion that greater exit and entry costs heighten the likelihood of voice. Particularly when examining dispute resolution in contexts with limited exit opportunities, increased entry costs make workers' voice more likely.\n\nThose in the military are sometimes faced with things that they might not morally agree with. They have a sense of \"patriotic obligation\" to their country, even if they feel the war they are fighting is \"unjust.\" This patriotic obligation stems from their loyalty to their government and country. They feel that they need to do as they're told in order to be a loyal citizen.\n\nA key application of Hirschman's scheme of exit, voice and loyalty has been emigration. Drawing on the analogy of discontent consumers buying elsewhere, \"exit\" translated into leaving a country and migrating to a different nation-state, while \"voice\" described the option of articulating discontent, which as Hirschman (1970: 16) noted, \"can be graduated, all the way from faint grumbling to violent protest\". Hirschman modeled these options as mutually exclusive and postulated a seesaw mechanism: the easier available the exit option, the lower the likelihood of voice. For rulers, emigration served as a safety-valve, by which the discontent renounced on their possibility to articulate protest. \"Latin American powerholders have long encouraged their political enemies and potential critics to remove themselves from the scene through voluntary exile. The right of asylum, so generously practiced by all Latin American republics, could almost be considered as a ‘conspiracy in restraint of voice’.\" (Hirschman 1970: 60f.) However, not always did \"exit subvert voice\", as Hirschman himself acknowledged in a 1993 article: In 1989, in the GDR it was the escalating dynamic of out-migration that led those who wanted to stay to take to the streets to demand change. Exit triggered voice, and both worked in tandem.\n\nMoreover, Hirschman's scheme assumes a model of nation-states as a jigsaw puzzle of clearly delimited \"containers\", and migration as the process of unidirectionally moving from one container to another. The emergence of transnational migration diagnosed since the 1990s has challenged this assumption. As emigrants increasingly maintain strong social ties (loyalty) to their country of origin, including a claim to have a say in its public affairs (voice) - Hoffmann (2010) argues- in transnational migration exit, voice and loyalty are no longer exclusive options; the nature of migrant transnationalism is defined precisely by the overlapping and simultaneity of these categories.\n\nAccording to Dako-gyeke 2016, Ghana students intended to migrate for a chance at an overall better quality of life, more career options, and a possibility of continuing their education. These students hope to ‘exit’ their current situation due to their lack of resources, lack of income, or lack of job opportunities. They are ‘withdrawing their relationship’ with their current community/home country to try and prosper somewhere new.\n\nHirschman provides an example simplified here: Consider a publicly funded school where the quality of education declined. Quality-conscious parents would increasingly remove their child to a privately funded school, given that they are relatively indifferent to the cost. A price-conscious parent, being similarly indifferent to the quality, would not notice that decline. At some point then, the school would know there was a problem, having been abandoned, but have no parents left who cared sufficiently about the quality to point to exactly where it had failed, locking the school into that state. Hirschman notes that in this and similar fields (\"connoisseur goods\"), a \"tight monopoly could be preferable\", preventing parents from moving. This would be better for the school, if not the child, by keeping an active voice among the parents.\n\nResearch is limited on whether exiting is a strategy for those who hold powerful positions. Holbein 2016. In China, the middle-class people did not voice their opinions for political change, and instead used an approach called \"remonstrations.\" They instead pledge their loyalty and blame the lower level officials.\n\n\"Power and politics: insights from an exit, voice, and loyalty game\" offer a new framework which views exit, voice, and loyalty as inherently political responses of citizens to their governments. Exit, Voice, and Loyalty are three general responses citizens employ to negatively construed state policy changes. Exit is seen as acceptance that change has occurred as semi-permanent and the citizen response follows a negation of the change through the alteration of the citizen's behavior. Voice is seen as a citizen response exemplified through complaints, protests, lobbying, and other forms of direct action taken to change the environment. Loyalty is presented as an acceptance of current change produced by the state policy and no behavioral change to it. All responses are political even when citizens do not deliberately choose a response. For example, some people do not consider the employing the use of voice because they do not believe it would be effective in producing the change they are seeking leading them to still ultimately employ either exit or loyalty. The response citizens choose remains implicitly political because it is dependent on what they construe their claim will be valued as from the state. The role of power can be seen through the responses of the exit, voice, and loyalty game theoretic model when applied considered politically.\n\nExit need not be physical, but can be mental or emotional. For example, in totalitarian countries, many could not physically exit the country, but did not want to participate in the system either. In these cases, citizens could be said to exit from civic or political participation, as they were neither loyal to the government nor were they willing to voice their dissatisfaction because doing so could lead to imprisonment, exile, or even death. Many thus mentally and emotionally exited their countries for the duration of a repressive regime they did not agree with but felt they could not fight or topple. The consequences of this exit can sometimes provide an explanation for why voter turnout is often low in countries where free elections are being held for the first time in years (or ever).\n\nThe exit, voice, loyalty model can be used to explain relationships between nation states and their citizens. The model predicts that when citizens have a credible exit threat and states are dependent on their citizens, states are less likely to take actions that the citizens would object to. For the case of increased taxation by the state, examples of credible exit threats include having the economic resources to flee or the ability to easily evade taxes. States are said to be dependent on their citizens if they value citizen loyalty more than they value the benefits that would result from a policy change. When both of these criteria are met, the model would predict that the state would not pursue a policy that would encourage citizens to exit or to use voice.\n\nAdditionally, the choice between using voice and exiting depends on which method has the least amount of costs and most benefits. In the case of Africa in precolonial and early colonial times, citizens often chose to exit in response to unfavorable policy changes and this exiting took the form of emigrating away from a state. Even when citizens could use voice, exiting was a better option because there was a large amount of open land that could yield benefits that were similar to the benefits obtained by living within the state. However, in the last hundred years there has been a shift in strategy away from migration (exit) and towards protesting (voice) because it is no longer as easy to find open land to exit to.\n\nThe model also predicts the impact of citizen voice on state action. There is a cost for citizens to use their voice. There is also a cost to the state as a result of citizen voice. The relative sizes of these costs can be used to infer the outcome when citizens decide to use their voice. When citizens can easily mobilize, the cost of mobilization is low for the citizens but the impact of using voice in a mobilized manner can lead to a large cost for the state. When this cost to the state is greater than the benefits it receives from a policy, the state is predicted to change that policy.\n\nThere was a point in time when women were not able to voice their political opinion. Their ‘voice’ was shut down because they were not able to vote or take part in political positions. Interjurisdictional competition played a role in helping women with property rights where they would be able to seek education, occupations, and investments. Voting can be considered a type of voice for citizens. Their vote can affect who has power in political positions. When a government is showing signs of downfall, people may use both voice and exit strategies. Exiting seems to be a stronger strategy when it comes to democratic accountability. High numbers of exiting can be detrimental for government officials. It is shown as a sign of incompetency, and those officials are less likely to be re elected. Exiting can have crucial impact on government officials.\n\nHirschman's exit, voice, and loyalty analytical framework has underpinned important research within employment relations. Hirschman's insights that exit and voice are often, but not always, mutually exclusive and that loyalty will moderate a consumer's chances of voicing any misgivings (Hirschman 1970: 77-78) are useful in explaining the link between workplace policies and outcomes.\n\nThere are different forms of employee voice, including individual voice, such as employee surveys, and collective voice, typically unions, as well as combinations of them. Contrasting forms of voice have different degrees of power (Allen 2014). An assumption that consumers have power underpins Hirschman's original framework. For instance, Hirschman (1970: 4, 40-1) argued that, in most instances, once consumers or ‘customer-members’ of an organization had voiced their concerns, decision makers within the selling organization could be expected to search for the sources of those misgivings and attempt to remedy the situation.\n\nIn comparison to competitive consumer markets, the employment relationship requires a different approach to power as managers have more authority than lower level employees (Hamilton and Feenstra 1997), leading to important implications for how exit, voice, and loyalty are treated within the employment context. For instance, in sharp contrast to Hirschman's (1970: 77) argument that, where exit is possible, voice is likely to be determined by ‘the extent to which customer-members are willing to trade off the certainty of exit against the uncertainties of an improvement in a deteriorated product’, within the context of employment, how willing employees are to trade off the uncertainties and costs of exit against the certainties of staying will strongly influence employees’ decisions to quit as well as to voice their opinions (Allen 2014). Similarly, loyalty and voice are not positively related in the employment context. In Hirschman's original formulation, consumers with higher levels of loyalty are more likely to voice their preferences to the selling organization rather than stop buying a product or service (exit). However, employees who voice their concerns may be seen as disloyal or as a disruptive influence by managers (Upchurch et al., 1996), leading loyal employees to remain silent. For this and other reasons, a concept of ‘neglect’ needs to supplement Hirschman's exit, voice, and loyalty framework within the employment context (Donaghey et al. 2011; Farrell 1983). Alternatively, 'toleration' is sometimes applied to situations in which employees remain with the organization, aware of problems, yet do not voice concern or grievance.\n\nAccording to Choi & Chung 2016 some feel as though the competent wages given in teacher unions are responsible for fewer turnovers. Unions provide a platform for their employees to voice their concerns, and in turn, employees are able to voice how they feel rather than try to retreat from or ‘exit’ their union. The findings show, that the schools with greater policies for voicing concerns have lower rates of turnover. The article used a 2014 Bureau of Labor report to find that 2.5 million of teachers were covered by unions. With that number being so large, this information would be useful to those who want insight on how to keep their union workers happy. This information would also be useful for those looking for better grievance policies. According to Gunnarsdóttir, 2016, middle managers in welfare positions are feeling emotional tension in their duties from having to receive and enforce organizational change. This leaves them susceptible to having their loyalty doubted. Due to this they feel like they aren’t able to ‘voice’ their concerns. They were able to execute strategies that evenly dispersed opposing outlooks while remaining autonomous during a radical change. O'Meara, Bennett & Neihaus. 2016, discuss what might \"pull\" staff members away from their job, one example being better wages. They also discuss what might \"push\" them away from their job, one example being that they are unhappy with their current work circumstances. These faculty members are leaving for a number of reasons. Money and uncomfortable working circumstances are examples. Some might not be able to tolerate new leadership, or changes in the way they are expected to work. Saifullah & Shahida 2016 suggests that both professional respect and employer-employee relation influenced the employees’ loyalty, but the effect of employer-employee was larger. Having a good relationship with employees has real reactions on their loyalty. To conclude, voice mechanisms have influence on turnover. New York State teacher unions were used for this specific data. Some feel as though the competent wages given in teacher unions are responsible for fewer turnovers. Unions provide a platform for their employees to voice their concerns, and in turn, employees are able to voice how they feel rather than try to retreat from or ‘exit’ their union. The findings show, that the schools with greater policies for voicing concerns have lower rates of turnover. Choi, Yujin and Il H. Chung. 2016\n\n\n\n\nChoi, Yujin and Il H. Chung. 2016. \"Voice Effects of Public Sector Unions on Turnover: Evidence from Teacher Contracts.\" Public Personnel Management 45(2):213-233 (http://search.proquest.com/docview/1796599679). \n\nDako-gyeke, Mavis. 2016. \"Exploring the Migration Intentions of Ghanaian Youth: A Qualitative Study.\" Journal of International Migration and Integration 17(3):723-744 (http://search.proquest.com/docview/1811200507). \n\nGunnarsdóttir, Hulda M. 2016. \"Autonomy and Emotion Management: Middle Managers in Welfare Professions during Radical Organizational Change.\" Nordic Journal of Working Life Studies 6:87-108 (http://search.proquest.com/docview/1776186343).\n\nO'Meara, KerryAnn, Jessica C. Bennett and Elizabeth Neihaus. 2016. \"Left Unsaid: The Role of Work Expectations and Psychological Contracts in Faculty Careers and Departure.\" Review of Higher Education 39(2):269-297 (http://search.proquest.com/docview/1749657149).\n\nSaifullah, Aamir and Shahida Sajjad. 2016. \"Intra Organizational Factors that Impact Employee's Loyalty.\" Journal of Business Strategies 10(1):129-146 (http://search.proquest.com/docview/1815438193).\n"}
{"id": "16320299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16320299", "title": "Gawwada language", "text": "Gawwada language\n\nGawwada (also known as Gauwada, Gawata, Kawwad'a, Kawwada) is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in southern Ethiopia. It is a Dullay language. Varieties include Dihina, Gergere, Gollango (= Gaba?), Gorose, Harso; Blench (2006) considers these to be distinct languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "35042832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35042832", "title": "Gayil language", "text": "Gayil language\n\nGayil (also called Gayl, Gayi, Galila, Gelila, Northern Ari) is an Omotic language of Ethiopia. According to the 2007 census, 55,700 people speak Gayil as a mother tongue.\n\n"}
{"id": "70014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70014", "title": "Gracie Allen", "text": "Gracie Allen\n\nGrace Ethel Cecile Rosalie Allen (July 26, 1895 – August 27, 1964) was an American vaudevillian and comedienne who became internationally famous as the zany partner and comic foil of husband George Burns, her straight man appearing with her on radio, television and film as the duo Burns and Allen. \n\nFor her contributions to the television industry, Gracie Allen was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6672 Hollywood Boulevard, while she and Burns were inducted into the Television Hall of Fame in 1988.\n\nCo-star Bea Benaderet said of Allen in 1966: \"She was probably one of the greatest actresses of our time.\"\n\nAllen was born in San Francisco, California, to George Allen and Margaret Theresa (\"Molly\") Allen (née Darragh; later Mrs. Edward Pidgeon), who were both of Irish Catholic extraction. She made her first appearance on stage at age three and was given her first role on the radio by Eddie Cantor. She was educated at the Star of the Sea Convent School and during that time became a talented dancer.\n\nShe soon began performing Irish folk dances with her three sisters, who were billed as \"The Four Colleens\". In 1909, Allen joined her sister, Bessie, as a vaudeville performer. At a performance in 1922, Allen met George Burns and the two formed a comedy act. They were married on January 7, 1926, in Cleveland, Ohio.\n\nAllen was born with heterochromia, giving her two different color eyes; one blue and one green.\n\nDepending on the source, Allen is alleged to have been born on July 26 in 1895, 1896, 1902 or 1906. All public records held by the City and County of San Francisco were destroyed in the earthquake and great fire of April 1906. Her husband, George Burns, also professed not to know exactly how old she was, though it was presumably he who provided the date July 26, 1902, which appears on her death record. Her crypt marker also shows her year of birth as 1902.\n\nAmong Allen's signature jokes was a dialogue in which Allen would claim that she was born in 1906, her foil would press her for proof or corroborating information; she would say that her birth certificate had been destroyed in the earthquake, her foil would point out that she was born in July but the earthquake was three months earlier in April, and Allen would simply smile and reply \"Well, it was an \"awfully big\" earthquake.\" The most reliable information comes from the U.S. Census data collected on June 1, 1900. According to the information in the Census records for the State of California, City and County of San Francisco, enumeration district 38, family 217, page 11-A, one Grace Allen—daughter of George and Maggie Allen, and youngest sister of Bessie, Hazel and Pearl Allen—was born in California in July 1895. In the census taken on April 15, 1910, however, for San Francisco's 39th Assembly District, Enumeration District 216, Page 5A, Grace Allen is listed as being 13 (instead of 14), indicating a birth year of 1896, but this is not definitive and census records do occasionally vary from year to year based upon numerous factors.\n\nThe Burns and Allen act began with Allen as the straight man, setting up Burns to deliver the punchlines—and get the laughs. In his book \"\", Burns later explained that he noticed Allen's straight lines were getting more laughs than his punchlines, so he cannily flipped the act over—he made himself the straight man and let her get the laughs. Audiences immediately fell in love with Allen's character, who combined the traits of naivete, zaniness, and total innocence. The reformulated team, focusing on Allen, toured the country, eventually headlining in major vaudeville houses. Many of their famous routines were preserved in one- and two-reel short films, including \"Lambchops\"\n(1929), made while the couple was still performing onstage.\n\nBurns attributed all of the couple's early success to Allen, modestly ignoring his own brilliance as a straight man. He summed up their act in a classic quip: \"All I had to do was say, 'Gracie, how's your brother?' and she talked for 38 years. And sometimes I didn't even have to remember to say 'Gracie, how's your brother?'\n\nIn the early 1930s, like many stars of the era, Burns and Allen graduated to radio. The show was originally a continuation of their original \"flirtation act\" (as their vaudeville and short film routines had been). Burns realized that they were simply too old for that material (\"Our jokes were too young for us,\" he later remarked) and changed the show's format in the fall of 1941 into the situation comedy vehicle for which they are best remembered: a working show business married couple negotiating ordinary problems caused by Gracie's \"illogical logic,\" usually with the help of neighbors Harry and Blanche Morton, and their announcer, Bill Goodwin (later replaced by Harry von Zell during the run of their television series).\n\nBurns and Allen frequently used running gags as publicity stunts. During 1932–33, they pulled off one of the most successful in the business: a year-long search for Allen's supposedly missing brother. They would make unannounced cameo appearances on other shows, asking if anyone had seen Allen's brother. Gracie Allen's real-life brother was apparently the only person who did not find the gag funny, and he eventually asked them to stop. (He dropped out of sight for a few weeks, at the height of the publicity.)\n\nIn 1940, the team launched a similar stunt when Allen announced she was running for President of the United States on the Surprise Party ticket. Burns and Allen did a cross-country whistlestop campaign tour on a private train, performing their live radio show in different cities. In one of her campaign speeches, Gracie said, \"I don't know much about the Lend-Lease Bill, but if we owe it we should pay it.\" Another typical Gracie-ism on the campaign trail went like this: \"Everybody knows a woman is better than a man when it comes to introducing bills into the house.\" The Surprise Party mascot was the kangaroo; the motto was \"It's in the bag.\" As part of the gag, Allen (in reality, the Burns and Allen writers) published a book, \"Gracie Allen for President\", which included photographs from their nationwide campaign tour and the Surprise Party convention. Allen received an endorsement from Harvard University.\n\nAllen was also the subject of one of S. S. Van Dine's Philo Vance mystery novels, \"The Gracie Allen Murder Case\". Typically, she could not resist a classic Gracie Allen review: \"S.S. Van Dine is silly to spend six months writing a novel when you can buy one for two dollars and ninety five cents.\"\n\nAnother publicity stunt had her playing a piano concerto at the Hollywood Bowl (and later at Carnegie Hall). The Burns and Allen staff hired a composer to write the Concerto for Index Finger, a joke piece that had the orchestra playing madly, only to pause while Allen played a one-finger scale, with a final incorrect note.\n\nThe orchestra would then play a musical piece that developed around the \"wrong\" note. On her final \"solo\", Allen would finally hit the right note, causing the entire orchestra to applaud. In fact, the actual index-finger playing was done off-stage by a professional pianist. The concerto was featured in the film \"Two Girls and a Sailor\" (1944), with orchestra conducted by Albert Coates.\n\nIn the fall of 1949, Burns and Allen became part of the CBS talent raid. Their good friend (and frequent guest star) Jack Benny had decided to jump from NBC over to CBS. William S. Paley, the mastermind of CBS, had recently made it openly clear that he believed talent and not the network made the difference, which was not the case at NBC. Benny convinced Burns and Allen (among others) to join him in the move to CBS. The \"Burns and Allen\" radio show became part of the CBS lineup and a year later they also brought their show to television. They continued to use the formula which had kept them longtime radio stars, playing themselves, only now as television stars, still living next door to Harry and Blanche Morton. They concluded each show with a brief dialogue performance in the style of their classic vaudeville and earlier radio routines.\n\nAllen retired in 1958, and Burns tried to soldier on without her. The show was renamed \"The George Burns Show\" with the cast intact except for Allen. The locale of the show was changed from the Burns home to George Burns' office, with Blanche Morton working as Burns' secretary so she could help Allen keep an eye on him. Allen's absence was only too obvious and impossible to overcome. The renamed show barely lasted a year.\n\nIn the early 1930s, Burns and Allen made several short films, preserving several of their classic vaudeville routines on celluloid. They also made two films with W. C. Fields—\"International House\" (1933) and \"Six of a Kind\" (1934). In 1937, Burns and Allen starred with Fred Astaire in \"A Damsel in Distress\", a musical with an original score by George Gershwin, which introduced the song \"A Foggy Day\". It was Astaire's first RKO film without dancing partner Ginger Rogers.\n\nAstaire's co-star Joan Fontaine was not a dancer, and he was reluctant to dance on screen alone. He also felt the script needed more comic relief to enhance the overall appeal of the film. Burns and Allen had each worked in vaudeville as dancers (\"hoofers\") before forming their act, and when word of the project reached them, they called Astaire and he asked them to audition.\n\nBurns contacted an act he had once seen that performed a dance using brooms. For the next several weeks, he and Allen worked at home to learn the complicated routine for their audition. When they presented the \"Whisk Broom Dance\" to Astaire, he was so taken by it, that he had them teach it to him and it was added to the film. Their talents were further highlighted as they matched Astaire step by step in the demanding \"Funhouse Dance\". Throughout the picture, Burns and Allen amazed audiences and critics as they \"effortlessly\" kept pace with the most famous dancer in films, as many did not know either of them could dance.\n\nThe legend was born of their vaudeville routine and carried over to both radio and television. As the show wrapped up, Burns would look at Allen and say \"Say good night, Gracie\", to which she would usually simply reply \"Good night.\" Popular legend has it that Allen would say, \"Good night, Gracie.\" According to George Burns, recordings of their radio and television shows, and several histories of old-time radio (John Dunning's \"On the Air: The Encyclopedia of Old-Time Radio\", for example), Gracie never used the phrase. The confusion may have been caused by \"Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In\". Stars Dan Rowan and Dick Martin used a similar sign-off routine wherein Rowan would tell Martin to \"Say good night, Dick.\" Martin's reply was always \"Good night, Dick.\" It seemed like something Gracie Allen would have said.\n\nGeorge Burns himself said as much in an interview years later, adding that, surprisingly enough, no one ever thought of having Allen say \"Good night, Gracie\". However, the former \"Burns and Allen\" head writer, Paul Henning, did use the \"say good night\" bit in at least one episode of \"The Beverly Hillbillies\" (\"The Richest Woman\", aired January 5, 1966, two years before \"Laugh-In\" premiered. JED: \"Say good night, Jethro.\" JETHRO: \"Good night, Jethro.\")\n\nIn the 1930s, Burns and Allen adopted two children, Sandra Jean and Ronald Jon, after discovering they could not conceive on their own. They agreed to raise the children as Catholics, then let them make their own religious choice as adults. Ronnie eventually joined the cast of his parents' television show, playing George and Gracie's son, a serious drama student who disdained comedy. Sandy, by contrast, made only occasional appearances on the show (usually as a telephone operator, waitress, secretary, or clerk), and left show business to become a teacher.\n\nAs a child, Allen had been scalded badly on one arm, and she was extremely sensitive about the scarring. Throughout her life, she wore either full or three-quarter length sleeves to hide the scars. The half-forearm style became as much a Gracie Allen trademark as her many aprons and her illogical logic. When the couple moved to Beverly Hills and acquired a swimming pool, Gracie put on a bathing suit and swam the length of the pool to prove to her children that she could swim. (She fought a longtime fear of drowning by privately taking swimming lessons.) She never put on a bathing suit or entered the pool again.\n\nAllen was said to be sensitive about having one green eye and one blue eye (heterochromia), and some speculation existed that plans to film the eighth season of \"The Burns & Allen Show\" in color prompted her retirement. However, this seems unlikely, since a one-time-only color episode was filmed and broadcast in 1954 (a clip of which was seen on a CBS anniversary show). The reason she retired in 1958 was her health; George Burns noted more than once that she stayed with the television show as long as she did to please him, in spite of her health problems. In later years, Burns admitted that he had a very brief affair. Stricken by guilt, he phoned Jack Benny and told him about the indiscretion. However, Allen overheard the conversation and Burns quietly bought an expensive centerpiece. Nothing more was said. Years later, he discovered that Allen had subsequently told one of her friends about the episode, finishing with, \"You know, I really wish George would cheat on me again. I could use a new centerpiece.\"\n\nGracie Allen fought a long battle with heart disease, ultimately dying of a heart attack in Hollywood on August 27, 1964, at age 69. Her remains were interred in a crypt at the Freedom Mausoleum at Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Glendale, California.\n\nBurns' remains were interred at her side in 1996 when he died 32 years later at the age of 100; the marker on the crypt was changed from \"Grace Allen Burns—Beloved Wife And Mother (1902–1964)\" to \"Gracie Allen (1902–1964) and George Burns (1896–1996)—Together Again\".\n\n\n\nThe Gracie Award is presented by the Alliance for Women in Media to recognize exemplary programming created by women, for women and about women in radio, television, cable and web-based media, including news, drama, comedy, commercials, public service, documentary and sports. The awards program encourages the realistic and multi-faceted portrayal of women in entertainment, news, features and other programs. Allen has twice been nominated to the National Women's Hall of Fame which has so far chosen not to induct her. She has been honored by James L. Brooks, who named \"Gracie Films\" after her.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12336618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12336618", "title": "Hu Wanlin", "text": "Hu Wanlin\n\nHu Wanlin (, born 1949, Mianyang, China) was suspected of killing 146 people.\n\nHu Wanlin was born in the city of Mianyang, Sichuan Province and only completed primary education. He was imprisoned for homicide in the 1980s as well as swindling, and abducting and trafficking in women. While in prison in 1993, he opened a medical practice.\n\nHe was acquitted on a retrial in 1997. On release he continued practising medicine illegally in the northern Shanxi Province and northwestern Shaanxi Province where he allegedly started two hospitals. This continued until February 1998, when he was banned by local authorities. Hu then went to Henan in June 1998.\n\nHu's 'treatments' were thought to have resulted in the death of at least 146 people. The “treatments” involved herbal preparations which were proved to contain high amounts of sodium sulphate which is poisonous in large doses. He also employed the traditional practice of qigong, in which the healer is said to emit qi from his body, which allegedly has curative powers without physical contact being necessary. Hu became well-known, having his medical practice and “medical miracles” described by a well-known Chinese novelist, Ke Yunlu. It seems that his malpractice continued for many years due to bribes paid to officials. \n\nHu was arrested on January 18, 1999 in Shangqiu, aged 50, on suspicion of causing nearly 150 deaths. He was convicted of practising medicine without a license on October 1, 2000, receiving 15 years imprisonment, suspension of voting rights for five years and a 150,000 yuan fine. In 2014, shortly after Hu received an early release from imprisonment, state-run media reported that he had been responsible for another death: a 22-year old college student attending another one of his \"health retreats\".\n"}
{"id": "51048529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51048529", "title": "Inwohner", "text": "Inwohner\n\nInwohner is a German expression for lower-ranking inhabitants of a populated place. The exact significance varies regionally, but the word generally refers to lodgers without real property.\n\nIn the Middle Ages and the early modern period in places such as in southern Germany, in Saxony and in Austria the word meant inhabitants of a town or a village who generally did not possess real property and therefore did not enjoy full civic rights. Of similar meaning are the expressions \"Inste\" and \"Instleute\" who were also lodgers in rural communities. Likewise, similarities exist to the expression \"Einlieger\" for day labourers without real property who rented living room from farmers. An \"Inwohner\" must be distinguished from a member of the household who was either related to the home owner or was a direct employee (e.g. a maid or a servant) of the latter.\n\nIn Mecklenburg, inhabitants of towns were called \"[E]inwohner\" or \"Einlieger\" if they did not possess the status of a burgher nor any other specific privileges. According to the old country laws of Mecklenburg, burghers could only have one main occupation in trade, crafts, or services. Thus, special organisations similar to those of craftsmen also formed for those \"farmer-burghers\" who lived in the towns, but whose main occupation was agriculture. Their number, however, remained comparatively low in all Mecklenburg country towns.\n\nIn south-western Saxony, it became common around 1700 to speak of \"propertied \"Inwohner\"\". This could mean Hufners and other inhabitants of the villages who held real property, or home owners in towns. In this region as well as in the Vogtland, the sense of the word shifted towards today's \"Einwohner\", meaning any inhabitant of a populated place.\n\nIn northern and north-eastern Germany, \"Instleute\" were day labourers contracted to work for certain landowners in exchange for living quarters, payment and wages in kind; they also had to provide a second labourer and acted thus as a kind of sub-contractors.\n\nIn Slovenia, so-called \"osabeniki\" were allocated living quarters in the wineyards where they worked.\n\nIn Switzerland, the expressions \"Beiwohner\", \"Beisasse\", \"medewohner\" and \"non-positus\" also refer to inhabitants of a municipality who do not possess full civic rights there, but have certain duties and enjoy certain rights according to the relevant regulations. These persons may nevertheless be of prominent financial standing.\n\nUnpropertied inhabitants of medieval towns without full civic rights were called \"Inwohner\". They were bound to work as day labourers for a master, e.g. a brewery, without being permanently employed. \"Inwohner\" in villages were dependent on the farmers in whose households they lodged, and were bound to perform a set amount of work for their landlords, thus providing a reserve of workers for busy times. Some earned an additional income from domestic trades such as shoe repair, broom making, or basket making.\n\nSince the domicile of an \"Inwohner\" was not defined by real property, special rules had to be observed as to which clergymen were to perform marriage ceremonies among this class of inhabitants.\n\nRegional laws fixed the duties of \"Inwohner\" and their landlords. For instance, the 1635 urbarium of Lustenfelden stipulates that, if a subject of the local lord had taken a person (\"Inman\") as a tenant, both had to appear before the lord within a fortnight to record the \"Inman\" for whom the landlord had to pay a bond. An \"Inman\" who had left another lordship had to bring a letter of leave, to swear allegiance to the new lord, and to pay a fee of acceptance. After the \"Inman\" moved into the house of the landlord, a certain tax was payable every year which the landlord had to guarantee. An \"Inman\" who left had to request cancellation of the record, and had to pay a leaving fee, otherwise both landlord and tenant were liable to prosecution. Likewise, certain taxes were due upon the death of an \"Inman\". Concealing the \"Inman\" status by a pretended employment was prohibited. However, the \"Inman\" was not liable for country taxes levied by the prince.\n\nThe increasing number of \"Inman\" relationships in the 17th and 18th centuries led to the erection of numerous tenements, e.g. in Linz, and to the development of an urban proletariat even under preindustrial circumstances.\n"}
{"id": "1543471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1543471", "title": "Jakun people", "text": "Jakun people\n\nJakun people or Orang Ulu / Orang Hulu (meaning, \"people of the upstream\") are an ethnic group recognised as Orang Asli (indigenous people) of the Malay Peninsula in Malaysia. \n\nThe Malaysian government officially distinguishes 18 different ethnicity of the Orang Asli group, uniting them into three categories namely the Negrito (Semang), Senoi and aboriginal Malays (Proto-Malay). The Jakun people belong to the third of them. They are the largest group of the Orang Asli; in the Proto-Malay division, and the second-largest Orang Asli group overall after the Semai.\n\nIt should be noted that in the past, the name \"Jakun\" is used as a term that encompasses all native Malays, including the Temuan people, Orang laut (Orang Seletar, Orang Kuala) and Orang Kanaq. At the same time they were divided into two groups, the actual Jakun people living in the interiors and the Orang laut living by the coastal areas.\n\nIn terms of anthropological characteristics, the Proto-Malay differs from other Orang Asli groups. Just like the Malay people; they belonged to the southern Mongoloid, where they are noticeably higher in height and have a lighter skin.\n\nThey are closely related to the Malay people and are probably a branch of the Proto-Malay, whom the 19th century researcher A. R. Wallace called \"savage Malays\". They are also related to the Orang Laut, another indigenous group that lives along the coasts and depends on fishing.\n\nOrdinary Malaysians know little about the Orang Asli and the Jakun people in particular. Traditionally, they are perceived as backward and primitive tribes, and the very name itself, \"jakun\" carries a derogatory connotation meaning \"slaves\". Non-Orang Asli Malay language speakers occasionally use the word \"Jakun\" as an insult for an unsophisticated person. This is considered by some as derogatory and racist. The attitude of the Malay people toward the Jakun people is ambiguous. On one hand, they consider them to be benighted people and dabbles in black magic. On the other hand, the Jakun people are part of the Proto-Malay and is evidenced that the Proto-Malay have always been inhabiting the country and is therefore a justification of the Malay rights and the special status of the indigenous people of Malaysia.\n\nJakuns are mostly located in the southern region of the Malay Peninsula, in the interior of the southwest Pahang and north Johor All Jakun settlements are located near the jungle, and their population is more or less dependent on jungle resources. The geography of this region varies from a wet swampy area to dense tropical jungles. The local climate is determined by high humidity and seasonal monsoons.\n\nJakun live in villages belonging to different categories. This development is the \"Rancangan Pengumpulan Semula\" (RPS, \"Regrouping Plan\") settlement, a regrouping scheme for undeveloped settlements and those that are developing. In RPS settlements, all residents have individual house, built by the government where they are provided with electricity and water supply, communication facilities, public halls, shops, schools, children's and medical institutions, asphalted roads are laid for them. People from different settlements located in or near the jungle were moved to such villages. Much of the people still continue to live in old settlements. Usually there is no electricity there, water is taken from natural sources, and there are only a few houses built out of durable building materials. Access to these villages are through earthen roads and jungle paths.\n\nSome of the settlements that the Jakun people are located includes:-\n\nThe Jakun people are the second largest ethnic group among the Orang Asli and the largest among the Proto-Malay people group. They are numbered at 31,577 people as of 2010.\n\nThe population dynamics of the Jakun people are as the following:-\nDistribution of the Jakun population by states (1996, JHEOA statistic):-\nDemographic data obtained during fieldwork among the Jakun people near Chini Lake, showed that the local population was relatively young people aged 30 to 40 years (30%) outnumbering the age group of 40 to 50 years (15%) and the largest age group was the 5 to 12 years old. There were also more women than men. Most of the respondents were married, the size of the family ranged from 8 to 12 members.\n\nThe Jakuns are taller than the other aboriginal peoples of the Malay Peninsula, the Semang and Sakai tribes. Jakun people typically have olive-brown to dark copper skin color. Some have intermarried with ethnic Malays or Chinese. Those who marry or assimilated with Malays usually adhere or largely convert to Islam; families with Chinese ancestors may practise Chinese folk religion in addition to Jakun customs.\n\nJakuns speak Jakun language, a Malayic language of the Malayo-Polynesian languages group, closely related to Malay. Perhaps it should be considered as one of the archaic dialects of the Malay language. It does not have its own written language, is gradually replaced by Malay and is under threat of disappearance.\n\nThe Malaysian radio on the Asyik FM channel broadcasts separate Jakun programs daily.\n\nIt is traditionally believed that the ancestors of Jakun people, like other Proto-Malay people, arrived in the Malay Peninsula from the southern Chinese province of Yunnan some 5,000 years ago. The ancestors of the other two groups of Orang Asli were living here are the Semang and Senoi people.\n\nThe first Malay people arrived on the peninsula much later, probably around 1,500-2,000 years ago, and this was due to the expansion of the Malay empire of Srivijaya, and with its center located on the island of Sumatra. Initially, the Malay people initially established trade relations with the local population, but later began to dominate the land. The Malay people often mixed with the Jakun people, and the aborigines became part of the Malay population. Those indigenous people who opposed the outsiders were eventually moved to the interior regions and retained a significant part of their traditional culture.\n\nFor a period of long time the Jakun people continued to live mostly in isolation from the outside world.\n\nJakun people living along the Endau River in Johor recall with horror how during the Second World War, pillars of Japanese soldiers were passing their jungle.\n\nThe active penetration of the state government and individuals into traditional Jakun areas began in the mid-1980s, and intensified in the 1990s. In 1987, there was a land conflict between local Jakun settlers and the other settlers in Pasir Asam, near Kota Tinggi, Johor. The state government was favouring the settlers and offered the Jakun settlers to move to a new settlement specially built for the indigenous people.\n\nThe state government regards the Orang Asli as poor and marginalized ethnic minorities that are far from center of developments. Their socioeconomic activity, which is closely linked to the surrounding natural resources, is considered to be backward. For a better life, they are offered to move to permanent residence in villages based on the model of Malay peasants. As a result of the implementation of government programs under the resettlement scheme, most Jakun people were forced to leave their traditional villages and found themselves in specially constructed for them new state-owned so-called RPS (\"Rancangan Pengumpulan Semula\", the \"Regrouping Plan\") sites whose settlers are provided with basic amenities. Although they were placed in new state-funded houses in already existing villages, the provision of amenities and infrastructure is noticeably lagging behind. Jungles that are cut down near Jakun villages were replaced with other commodity crop plantations that are not theirs, but the Jakun people still receive revenues from these plantations.\n\nThe resettlement of Jakun people to new settlements has often occurred in relation with some natural disasters. Such as the villagers of Selingkong and Meranti in Pekan District, Pahang moved here after a major flood in 1971. Another group of Jakun people living in the jungles of Endau, left their native land through a cholera outbreak settled in the Segamat District and Kota Tinggi District in the state of Johor, as well as in Rompin District in the state of Pahang.\n\nNow their villages are far from the forest, they are deprived of their native environment, where they collected rattan, root crops, looked after their forest plants. This is also added with a significant depletion of the remaining natural resources.\n\nThere are areas of Jakun settlements that found themselves in the areas of attention in the tourism industry. Tourists are attracted primarily by \"untouched nature\" of the locals. A popular place for ecotourism, particularly Lake Chini, with its legend about the immersion of an ancient city of Khmer Empire under water. However, due to the depletion of the local natural resources, the flow of tourists has decreased. In 2007, they managed to attract only 17,000 people.\n\nIn the past, the Jakun people were hunter-gatherers. The nutritional diet are based on fish and wild animals. Animals such as wild boars, indigenous deer species (\"pelandok\", \"kancil\" and \"kijang\"), lizards, monkeys and other small animals are hunted. Blowguns (\"sampit\") are employed in hunting; which is usually made of bamboo tubing with sharpened tip bamboo darts that are pre-dipped in poison. Jakun hunters can shoot their blowgun with deadly precision of 30 meters.\n\nCage traps (\"bubu\") made of bamboo and bounded by rocks are used to catch fish in rivers or streams. The type and shape of the cage trap depends on the size and type of fish they are going to catch.\n\nJungle produce such as wild fruits, rattan, wood, rubber, wax, camphor and herbs are gathered. A significant portion of these produce are then exchanged for other commodities.\n\nIn some areas, the Jakun people also engage in primitive agriculture. They had small farms in the jungle. For this purpose, the land was cleared by slash-and-burn method. Rice and tuber-based crops like sweet potatoes are grown. They practice shifting cultivation where after two seasons of land cultivation had passed, they would move on to another plot of land and start everything again from the beginning. They will only returned to the old plot of land after many years.\n\nHowever, most Jakun people prefer not to engage in farming but to exchange foods from the Malay and Chinese people with their jungle produce such as kemenyan, gaharu, dammar gum and rattan by barter. Thus they also received clothing, tobacco, salt, gambier and areca nut palm.\n\nIn using natural resources, the Jakun people must take into account the ownership of specific communities in a certain territory. Although they do not physically demarcate it, everyone knew well the limits of the possessions of their neighboring communities. People hunted animals, caught fish, cultivated farms, or collected grass only within their own territory. In addition, they do not take anything superfluous in regards to using natural resources, because they understood that the jungle should not be harmed.\n\nThe traditional house of the Jakun people is hut made of bamboo flooring, tree bark or wooden plank walls and Nipah roofing.\n\nIn the past, Jakun people wore loincloth around the hips made from the bark of trees with their own hands and did not buy clothes.\n\nMost Jakun people adhere to their animistic beliefs that are closely related to their natural surroundings. They believe that not only people have souls but animals, plants, and even inanimate objects (mountains, hills, settlements, rivers, rocks, caves, and so on) as well.\n\nThe personality of Orang Asli is closely linked to the nature and the land on which they live. It is the basis of their material and spiritual being, as well as the source of their physical and emotional nourishment. Jakun people do not consider themselves as a higher being higher than animals. They speak with animals too, as if they can understand them. There is great respect for every living thing, from the big elephant to the tiny cicada.\n\nJakun people are very superstitious, as they believe that misfortune awaits due to violations of rules established by nature for people.\n\nJakun people believe that the forces that \"live\" in natural objects are so powerful that they can bring about inconceivable things at first glance. In their beliefs, one could only just touch a leaf of a certain plant, and it can heal a sick person or make one crave a certain desire, because that leaf has the power of the spirit. For that reason, the Jakun people believe in the strength found in traditional medicine based on herbs and roots that they find in the wild.\n\nIt is believed that souls can leave their hosts, and they can be tempted or coerced by magic. A Jakun \"bomo\" (\"bomoh\" in Malay language meaning, \"healer\" or \"sorcerers\") are able to \"communicate\" with spirits, and because of this they are respected and revered by society. Sometimes they are more influential than rural heads. In order to communicate with supernatural forces or ancestral spirits, the \"bomo\" would hold special ceremonies.\n\nIn carrying out the policy of Islamization of the indigenous population; which became intensified after 1980, Muslim missionaries began to operate in Orang Asli communities. As a result, a certain part of the Jakun population was converted to Islam. According to JHEOA statistics in 1996, a total of 16,637 Jakun people totaled 1,324 Muslims (8%). In the state of Johor, the results of Islamization were more prominent with 20% of the Jakun people are Muslims, while in Pahang there are only 5%.\n\nIt should be noted that the Islamization of the Jakun people is often superficial. They regard themselves as Muslims only to receive certain benefits. There is also a psychological factor involved. Jakun people who live in close contact with the Malay people, would almost always say that they are Muslims. But they usually do not know any Muslim prayer, nor do they go to a mosque, and do not adhere to the laws of Islam.\n\nUnder the influence of integration into modern economy, the life of the indigenous peoples of Malaysia experience a transformation. Before the colonial era, many Jakun people would enter the jungle on a seasonal basis to harvest jungle produce. The Jakun people are now torn off from the jungle, although from time to time they would still harvest jungle produce. Traditional activities are no longer a source of income for them. Most Jakun communities in the modern age have a settled lifestyle and live in permanent villages practicing agriculture. Much of the Jakun people are collective owner of the rubber and oil palm plantations; the main commodity produced in the region. From these plantations, they receive monthly earnings. These funds, as well as government monetary assistance, are fully used to cover their daily expenses. In addition, people have plots of land in the village where groats (yams, lemongrass, cassava, bananas) are grown and animals are raised.\n\nNowadays, Jakun people do not hunt animals. Even when they come across wild birds or monkeys in plantations, they do not kill them for meat. The reason includes some psychological basis, that the Jakun people do not want to be perceived as uncivilized because they consume exotic meat. It is easier for them to buy chicken, beef or other meat from grocery stores or from mobile dealers who come to their villages. In addition, hunting or catching wild animals is now banned in jungles belonging to the territory of national parks.\n\nAt the same time, due to the increased demand for jungle produce, some Jakun people have resumed harvesting of rattan, bamboo, wood, wild bush, roots and medicinal plants. The collected products are for sale.\n\nJakun people still use traditional traps for fishing. Although they are familiar with fishing rods, they only perceive their use for leisure. Unless there is really a need to catch fish, they would still use fish traps.\n\nSome of the Jakun people work in the tourism field, especially among those that lived in the national park territories. They conduct excursions or services for tourists. Some of the locals began to organize tourist attractions in their villages with elements of local traditions such as arranging traditional greetings, selling traditional handmade products, provide training classes on local ways of hunting for tourists, fishing and jungle trekking.\n\nMost children would go to school. Their parents have a positive attitude towards schooling, because they believe that education will improve the chances of children to have a better life. But like many other Orang Asli groups, however, they suffer from inadequate access to public schools, which can be far away from the communities.\n\nMany of the young people work in cities. If the work brings them good income, then they will not settle back in their native villages.\n\nJakun people are becoming more and more modernized and they are no longer seen as a stereotypical indigenous people as they are dressed as like any ordinary Malaysians, watch television, listen to radio, drive cars, ride motorcycles and speak the Malay language. At the same time, the security of Jakun people's everyday amenities is still insufficient. Many of the Jakun villages do not have water supply and electricity. The poverty rate in many of their communities is one of the highest in the country. Young people also do not have enough business opportunities.\n\nA Jakun village usually consists of several families. Those families are grouped into a village community headed by a village head, chieftain, leader or elder called, \"Batin\". Unlike the Malay people, the Jakun community is an informal association of fully autonomous families. In the past, the village head often headed the group only during their wanderings in the jungles and hunting. At the same time, in a areas closer to Malay settlements, such a leader gradually turned into a hereditary \"Batin\" leader.\n\nThe nucleus family; which usually consists of five or six individuals, predominates. The Jakun people live in close contact with their relatives, brothers and sisters, parents and children are usually standing next to each other. Here they attach special importance to the institution of the family, such as values of respect for the elders, as well as the character of each person. The family is very stable and intact. Before marriage, children live with their parents, until they would start their own new family. Although they live separately, they would often visit their parents.\n\nFamily life begins about 17 years old. When a boy chooses a girlfriend, his family sends a matchmaker to arrange a marriage and set the value of the dowry for the young. According to Jakun's customs, the bride's family later in the form of a gift returns to the bridegroom's family for about half of the dowry. A dance is performed during the wedding day, in the middle of which the bride would dash off into the jungle followed by the bridegroom to chase her. Should he failed to return without the bride, the wedding would be called off and he would be jeered by the attendees of the wedding. During the wedding ceremony, young couple must feed each other with rice.\n\nUsually after a marriage, when the young couple do not have their own house, the husband goes to live with his wife's parents. According to tradition, every wife must visit their husband's parents for at least three days each year. This event is celebrated injunction with traditional holidays.\n\nJakun people are usually monogamous, and divorces occur extremely rarely among them. In cases of adultery, punishment may even be death. Traditionally, the man would have his wife; who have committed the offence tied to a tree in front of his house, and then hides in the bushes with three spears. Her lover; whom she had committed the offence with should try to free her and bring her into her husband's house. At this point, the husband throws the spear out in ambush and to take the life of either his wife or her lover. If the lover can manage to bring woman into the house, then she cannot be killed anymore, but she can still be driven out of her husband's house. A wife in the same way cannot punish her unfaithful husband in an event of adultery. If the man divorces his wife, then he will lose his dowry unless if the woman divorces her husband, then she must return the dowry to her husband.\n\nMen and women in Jakun society are equal. The husband is the head of the household, therefore it is he who is responsible for ensuring the material needs of the family, which in most cases he works outside of the home. The woman on the other hand mainly deals with housework, including cooking, washing and taking care of children. In the field, there are representatives of both sexes. Besides housework, women are engaged in rubber tapping, collecting wild fruits, herbs and oil palm fruits. Despite the fact that men dominate the economic field, the role of women here is also gradually increasing. There are already female entrepreneurs. If in regards to the outside world, Jakun communities are predominantly men, whereas decision making at the family level is usually carried out by women. Women are not silent and reduced here, as it is with Malay Muslim women, they are actively involved in all conversations and discussions.\n\nThe birth of a child changes the identity of the child's parents and grandparents; of which they move up to a more respectable category. Their name changes accordingly, since this time the parents are called by the name of their eldest child with the addition of \"father\" or \"mother\". A new name is also given to newly-born's grandmother and grandfather, now that their name is named after their grandson in the same manner.\n\nUsually Jakun people are referred to as quiet, kind and timid people. They have dislike of strangers and try to avoid contact with them. The Aboriginal Peoples Act of 1954, which, with some changes, continues to operate today, contributes to the preservation of the barrier between Orang Asli and other groups of the population. The law defines the criteria by which a person may be considered Orang Asli, the main of which one belongs to an indigenous community and their adherence to traditional customs, language, beliefs and lifestyles. However, Jakun people often interact with other Orang Asli groups, as well as Chinese and Malay people, and residents of the surrounding villages. Occasionally, there are mixed marriages.\n\nThe Orang Asli, living in wet tropical jungles, have formed a distinctive and unique culture. They have a high level of knowledge about the environment, formed on the basis of empirical experience. This knowledge is inherited from their ancestors, and passed through the ages from generation to generation. Loss of jungles, degradation of the natural environment and change in the way of life of the Jakun people lead to the loss of their traditional knowledge and skills, and with them, to the loss of their identity as a separate people. The wanderings through the jungle still brings moral satisfaction and pleasant memories to the older generation, but for the young people it is forgotten traditions.\n\nSome international and Malaysian organizations are attempting, on a commercial basis, to introduce activities based on traditional knowledge and skills of the people in Jakun communities. An example could be the introduction of cultivation of local medicinal plants of commercial value, the production of mats for sale, rugs from Pandan leaves, baskets handbags and so forth.\n\nThe Jakun people, possessing traditional knowledge and having the appropriate experience, can make a significant contribution to the conservation of jungles. In general, they have a positive attitude to these processes, but it is specific. On one hand, the jungle is in their blood, they perceive it as a refuge of their traditional knowledge, as their heritage. On the other hand, the jungle for them is a source of livelihood. Therefore, they consider the conservation of jungles as a guarantee of the well-being of their future generations. Hence, the Jakun people do not perceive nature conservation in the sense of restricting activities in the jungle. They refer to these problems purely from practical considerations and the conservation of jungles is considered from the point of view of quantitative assessment of the benefits that they will derive from.\n\n"}
{"id": "5660675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5660675", "title": "Jonathan Dube", "text": "Jonathan Dube\n\nJonathan Dube is a digital media executive.\n\nHe currently serves as Senior Vice President and General Manager, AOL News & Information. Dube leads the News content division, which includes the AOL News, Technology, Finance, and Sports groups.\n\nHe previously served as the Vice President in charge of ABCNews.com, responsible for the strategic planning, business strategy, editorial content, and production of the network's 24-hour online news service. Dube has served twice as President of the international Online News Association and currently serves on ONA's Board of Directors.\n\nHe's been described as \"a web reporting pioneer\" by The Poynter Institute, \"a major figure in the online-news business\" by Editor & Publisher and \"one of the first journalists to use an online (blog) journal\" by The New York Times.\n\nIn 1998, while working at The Charlotte Observer, he helped write a Weblog covering Hurricane Bonnie in 1998, the first time a news site used the Weblog format to cover breaking news.\n\nAs a national producer for ABCNEWS.com, he was one of the first true multimedia reporters, covering stories such as the Columbine High School shooting and the World Trade Organization protests in Seattle by shooting digital photos and video, creating interactive graphics, filing reports for ABC Radio and working with ABC News correspondents and producers. In February 2000, he and ABC News correspondent Brian Ross (journalist) jointly broke the news online of the arrest of a hacker known as \"Mafiaboy\" for attacks that took down major Web sites, such as Yahoo and CNN. It was one of the first times a major online news site broke an investigative story online and one of the earliest examples of joint reporting by an online and network TV journalist.\nIn 2000, Dube founded CyberJournalist.net, a site about how technology is transforming journalism. In addition, he serves on the board of the Online Publishers Association, the advisory board of the Center for Citizen Media and is a founding member of the Media Bloggers Association.\n\nDube writes a Web Tips column for The Poynter Institute, the premier professional training institute for journalists, and has served as visiting faculty for the institute.\n\nHe has also worked as the Director of Digital Media for CBC News, the news division of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation; the editorial director for Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's award-winning website, CBC.ca; technology editor and managing producer for MSNBC.com; and a freelancer for The New York Times.\n\nA native New Yorker, Dube has a bachelor's degree from Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., and a master's degree in journalism from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, where he lived with George Miller (now a Temple University journalism professor) and Doug Black. He studied new media and now serves on the school's Annual Fund Committee.\n\nDube won the first national Online Journalism Award for Breaking News for his coverage of the World Trade Organization protests in Seattle. He has also won four online journalism awards and two investigative reporting awards from the Society of Professional Journalists, as well as the first-ever new media award from Columbia University.\n\nWhile at MSNBC.com, the site won every major online journalism award, from National Press Club Awards to Edward R. Murrow Awards.\n\nAt the CBC, he led the company's website to every major online award in Canada, including multiple RTNDA Canada Awards, an EPpy Award and the Canadian New Media Award.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1580250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1580250", "title": "Khakas people", "text": "Khakas people\n\nThe Khakas, or Khakass (Khakas: , ), are a Turkic people, who live in Russia, in the republic of Khakassia in southern Siberia. They speak the Khakas language.\n\nThe origin of the Khakas people is disputed. Some scholars see them as descendants of the Yenisei Kirghiz, while others believe that, at the behest of the medieval Mongol Khans, the Yenisei Kirghiz migrated to Central Asia. It is believed that the Khakas people and Fuyu Kyrgyz are closer to the ancient Yenisei Kirghiz, who are both Siberian Turkic peoples (Northeastern Turkic), rather than the Kyrgyz people of modern Kyrgyzstan, who are Kipchak Turkic people (Northwestern Turkic).\n\nThe Yenisei Kirghiz were made to pay tribute in a treaty concluded between the Dzungars and Russians in 1635. The Dzungar Oirat Kalmyks coerced the Yenisei Kirghiz into submission.\n\nSome of the Yenisei Kirghiz were relocated into the Dzungar Khanate by the Dzungars, and then the Qing moved them from Dzungaria to northeastern China in 1761, where they became known as the Fuyu Kyrgyz. Sibe Bannermen were stationed in Dzungaria while Northeastern China (Manchuria) was where some of the remaining Öelet Oirats were deported to. The Nonni basin was where Oirat Öelet deportees were settled. The Yenisei Kirghiz were deported along with the Öelet. Chinese and Oirat replaced Oirat and Kirghiz during Manchukuo as the dual languages of the Nonni-based Yenisei Kirghiz.\n\nIn the 17th century, the Khakas formed Khakassia in the middle of the lands of Yenisei Kirghiz, who at the time were vassals of a Mongolian ruler. The Russians arrived shortly after the Kirghiz left, and an inflow of Russian agragian settlers began. In the 1820s, gold mines started to be developed around Minusinsk, which became a regional industrial center.\n\nThe names Khongorai and Khoorai were applied to the Khakas before they became known as the Khakas. The Russian use of the name Tatar to call all its Turkic peoples during the Tsarist era is what led to the modern Khakas people refer to themselves as Tadar, which is not a historical name. Khoorai (Khorray) has also been in use to refer to them. Now the Khakas call themselves Tadar and do not use Khakas to call themselves in their own language. They are also called Abaka Tatars.\n\nDuring the 19th century, many Khakas accepted the Russian ways of life, and most were converted en masse to Russian Orthodox Christianity. Shamanism with Buddhist influences, however, is still common, and many Christians practice Shamanism with Christianity. In Imperial Russia, the Khakas used to be known under other names, used mostly in historic contexts: \"Minusinsk Tatars\" (), \"Abakan Tatars\" (абака́нские тата́ры), and \"Yenisei Turks\".\n\nDuring the Revolution of 1905, a movement towards autonomy developed. When Soviets came to power in 1923, the Khakas National District was established, and various ethnic groups (Beltir, Sagai, Kachin, Koibal, and Kyzyl) were artificially \"combined\" into one—the Khakas. The National District was reorganized into Khakas Autonomous Oblast, a part of Krasnoyarsk Krai, in 1930. The Republic of Khakassia in its present form was established in 1992.\n\nThe Khakas people account for only about 12% of the total population of the republic (78,500 as of 1989 Census). The Khakas people traditionally practiced nomadic herding, agriculture, hunting, and fishing. The Beltir people specialized in handicraft as well. Herding sheep and cattle is still common, although the republic became more industrialized over time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1603081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1603081", "title": "Lao Theung", "text": "Lao Theung\n\nThe Lao Theung or Lao Thoeng (Lao: ລາວເທິງ ) is one of the traditional divisions of ethnic groups living in Laos (the others being the Lao Loum and the Lao Soung). It literally indicates the \"midland Lao\", and comprises a variety of different ethnic groups of mostly Austro-Asiatic origin. In 1993, the Lao Theung formed 24% of the country's population.\n\nLao Theung are largely of Mon-Khmer stock, and are believed to be the autochthonous population of mainland Southeast Asia, having migrated south in pre-historical time. Their legendary origin is related in the \"Pumpkin Story\" in James McCarthy's account of 1894. Although they now live in the higher uplands of Laos, they were originally paddy rice farmers, until displaced by the influx of Lao Loum migration into southeast Asia from Southern China. See upland rice farmers' challenges.\n\nWithin Laos, the Lao Theung are sometimes referred to by the pejorative term \"khaa\" (Lao: ຂ້າ), meaning \"slave\", reflecting the fact that they were traditionally used for labour by the lowland Lao. Midland Lao still have a lower standard of living than other ethnic groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "1516765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1516765", "title": "Layap", "text": "Layap\n\nThe Layap (Dzongkha: ལ་ཡཔ་) are an indigenous people inhabiting the high mountains of northwest Bhutan in the village of Laya, in the Gasa District, at an altitude of , just below the Tsendagang peak. Their population in 2003 stood at 1,100. Ethnically related to the Tibetans, they speak Layakha, a Tibeto-Burman language. Layaps refer to their homeland as \"Be-yul\" – \"the hidden land.\"\n\nThe dress of the Layap is similar to the Tibetan costume, except for a few differences. While men wear the Bhutanese costume, which consists of a silk or linen garment that is typically colored saffron and red (cf. \"gho\"), the women wear black woolen jackets, which reach right down to the ankles. A blue pattern band may also be found at the bottom of their long sleeves. They also adorn themselves with silver jewelry and beads.\n\nThe most distinctive feature of the Layap women's dress is their conical hat. Made out of darkened bamboo strips, the conical hat ends with a sharp point to the sky, a cross similar to the Christian cross inverted to an upside down position.\n\nOwing to Tibetan influence, the Layap practice a mixture of Bon and Tibetan Buddhism. According to legend, Laya village is the spot where Ngawang Namgyal, the founder of Bhutan, first entered the country.\n\nParticularly unique among the Layap is the extensive tradition of \"living defilements\" (Dzongkha: \"soen drep\"), whereby a ritually impure person is ostracized from social activities. The Layap shun \"living defilements\" in order not to anger deities, and to avoid physical maladies and livestock plagues. Among ritually impure acts are birth, divorce, and death, including the death of a horse.\n\nLocated near the Tibetan border, the Layap have traditionally engaged in trade. Nowadays that includes the smuggling of bootleg Chinese blankets and plastic goods which are embargoed by the Bhutanese government, but in much demand by Bhutanese villagers.\n\nTraditionally, the Layap lived a semi-nomadic lifestyle, who rearing yaks and dzos, although in recent times small ponies may also be found in the area. Owing to the cold weather at this altitude, few crops can be planted, except for some grasses. Layaps also traditionally pick cordyceps, valuable traditionally medicinal and magical fungi native to the region. With Bhutan's increased environmental protection, Layaps and rural farmers face more challenges protecting their livestock from natural predators, particularly leopards. Layap people also participate in the heavy labor to drain Thorthormi, a glacial lake prone to GLOF flooding. Flooding is a particularly serious threat to the Layap way of life, heavily dependent on livestock and sparse water resources.\n\nUntil the 1980s, the Layap lived in near-complete isolation from the world, except for occasional visits to Thimphu or Punakha, which was a five-day walk. Since the new millennium, Laya has been visited by tourists from all over the world. One can see beautifully painted houses fitted with solar panels, and the construction of new schools for the impoverished children. Most villagers are now able to abandon the village in the winter and return in the springtime. Many Layaps now live in permanent settlements complete with modern amenities – from toilets to mobile phones and televisions – thanks to disposable incomes from business and trade. Increasingly, Layap children are attending Bhutanese schools.\n\nThough somewhat modernized, Layaps and other tribal peoples of Bhutan remain a curiosity to the majority of the native population, many of whom lead much more modernized lives. The government encourages pride among Bhutan's tribal groups, and cites them as an example of humans successfully living in harmony with nature.\n\nIn traditional Layap culture, casual sex is commonplace and accepted among both males and females, unmarried and married. As a consequence, Layap communities face enormous exposure to syphilis, gonorrhoea, and hepatitis B. Although condoms were somewhat available, almost no Layaps reported safer sex practices through 2009, a trend the government hopes to buffet.\n\nThe Layap are known for their tradition of polyandry, practiced to keep families and property together, although the custom now in decline. The Layap also have a tradition of child marriage, with brides as young as 10 years old. Layap women speaking to media anticipate the increase in schooling among their daughters will result in a decline in child marriages. Many Layap women find healthcare difficult to access during pregnancy due to isolated settlements and nomadic lifestyles. Among the foremost concerns for Layap women is prenatal care. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "18879170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18879170", "title": "Liga Colombiana de Radioaficionados", "text": "Liga Colombiana de Radioaficionados\n\nThe Liga Colombiana de Radioaficionados (LCRA) (in English Colombian Amateur Radio League) is a national non-profit organization for amateur radio enthusiasts in Colombia. The organization was founded in 1933 by Italo Amore, Gustavo Uribe, Roberto Jaramillo Ferro, and other radio enthusiasts. At the time, all radio transmissions were authorized by the Ministry of Posts, who opposed a private amateur radio service. With LCRA lobbying efforts, private radio broadcasts were authorized in Colombia in 1936, and amateur radio was first licensed in Colombia in 1939.\n\nKey membership benefits of LCRA include the sponsorship of amateur radio operating awards and radio contests, and a QSL bureau for those members who regularly communicate with amateur radio operators in other countries. LCRA represents the interests of Colombian amateur radio operators before Colombian and international telecommunications regulatory authorities. LCRA is the national member society representing Colombia in the International Amateur Radio Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "2773447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2773447", "title": "List of Canadian provinces and territories' largest municipalities", "text": "List of Canadian provinces and territories' largest municipalities\n\nThis is a list of the largest municipalities of Canadian provinces and territories by population as of the 2011 Census. Capitals are designated in \"italics\".\n"}
{"id": "18525588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18525588", "title": "List of LGBT-themed speculative fiction", "text": "List of LGBT-themed speculative fiction\n\nMany science fiction and fantasy stories involve queer characters, or otherwise represent themes that are relevant to LGBT issues and the LGBT community. This is a list of notable stories, and/or stories from notable series or anthologies, and/or by notable authors; it is not intended to be all-inclusive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2450329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2450329", "title": "MIPTV Media Market", "text": "MIPTV Media Market\n\nMIPTV (Marché International des Programmes de Télévision) is an event which takes place annually in Cannes, France, using the facilities and infrastructure which the town has developed over the years to host other important events such as the Cannes Film Festival amongst other events.\n\nIt is essentially a content market for co-producing, buying, selling, financing and distributing entertainment content. It provides the people involved in the TV, film, digital and audiovisual content, production and distribution industry a market conference and networking forum to discover future trends and trade content rights on a global level.\n\nThis event is very closely related to the MIPCOM event, but retains its distinct focus. The MIPCOM event takes place in the same venue in October each year.\n\nMIP-TV was started in Lyon, France, in 1963 three years after MIFED, the world’s first audiovisual market, had started in Milan, Italy. The first MIP-TV was attended by 119 companies from 19 countries.\n\nIn 1965, after a one-year hiatus, MIP-TV moved to Cannes, using the town’s “old” Palais for the exhibition floors. In 1982 the market moved to the new Palais, while the old one became a hotel.\nIn 1987 the company that organized the market, MIDEM, was sold to the UK’s Television South (TVS) for £5 million. Two years later, TVS sold MIDEM to Reed Exhibitions (for a reported $20 million), which renamed it Reed MIDEM.\n\nConference panelists and keynotes include CEOs from all the major global media companies like: Leslie Moonves, CBS (US), Jana Bennett BBC (UK), Gerhard Zeiler RTL Group (Luxembourg), Harry Sloan MGM (US), Subhash Chandra ZEE Networks (India), Hyun-Oh Yoo SK Communications/Cyworld (Korea), Paula Wagner at United Artists (US), Ronnie Screwvala UTV (India), Philip Rosedale Second Life (US), Ben Silverman NBC (US), Emilio Azcarraga Televisa (Mexico), Mike Volpi Joost (US), Ken Rutkowski, Wayne Scholes Redtouch Media (US) KenRadio Broadcasting (US). Vertice360º (SPAIN)\n\nSince 2010 MIPTV launched MIPFormats, \"the pre-MIPTV formats conference & pitching showcase\" that gathers producers, commissioners, buyers, distributors and aspiring creators of breakthrough formats.The event is organised in association with C21FormatsLab.\n\nIn 2011, 665 participants came to MIPFormats, and 401 companies from 57 countries.\n\nMIPDoc is where international buyers, sellers, producers and commissioners of documentary and factual programmes screen new content and do business. MIPDoc calls itself \"the international showcase for documentary screenings\". Key MIPDoc 2011 figures:\n\nBy country:\n\n"}
{"id": "36666836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36666836", "title": "Major Israel McCreight", "text": "Major Israel McCreight\n\nMajor Israel McCreight (Oglala Lakota: \"Cante Tanke\" (\"Great Heart\")(Čhaŋté Tȟáŋka) in Standard Lakota Orthography) (April 22, 1865 – October 13, 1958) is notable in American history as a Progressive Era banker, conservationist and expert on Native American culture and policy. McCreight was a founder of the Pennsylvania Conservation Association, and authored President Theodore Roosevelt's conservation policy on public education and Cook Forest State Park, the first Pennsylvania State Park acquired to preserve a natural landmark. McCreight dedicated his life to public education about Native American culture and was a nominee for U.S. Commissioner of Indian Affairs. McCreight's relationship with the Lakota people began as a young man in the Dakota Territory in 1885 when he lived with them during a period of great sorrow. He returned to Du Bois, Pennsylvania, became a successful banker, and led the region into prominence as the biggest bituminous coal producers in the United States between 1890 and World War I. McCreight collaborated with Flying Hawk, an Oglala Lakota Chief, to write a Native American's view of U.S. history and classic accounts of the Battle of the Little Big Horn, Crazy Horse and commentaries on Native American philosophy. The Wigwam, McCreight's home in Du Bois, Pennsylvania, was a Native American heritage center and once the Eastern home of Oglala Lakota \"Oskate Wicasa\" Wild Westers. McCreight was a founder of the Pennsylvania Banker's Association and member of the Pennsylvania Society of New York. McCreight was an ardent student of the Indian, a lover of fair play and an author of books and articles.\n\nMajor Israel McCreight was born April 17, 1865, on a farm in Paradise, Winslow Township, Jefferson County, Pennsylvania and raised with siblings by pioneer parents John Winslow McCreight and Eliza Uncapher McCreight. The name \"Major\" was a nickname given to Israel as a child and he preferred to be called \"Maj\", \"Maje\" or simply \"MI.\" At age 16, McCreight attended Eastman Business College in Poughkeepsie, New York, to learn accounting and banking. After graduation, he returned to Du Bois, Pennsylvania and entered the banking profession as a night clerk and assistant cashier.\n\nIn 1885, the twenty-year-old McCreight, seeking adventure, took the Northern Pacific Railway to its farthest point west, Devils Lake, Dakota Territory. McCreight's two years in the Dakota Territory were filled with classic Wild West adventures. He was immediately hired by a livestock business supplying food to local Indian tribes and the U.S. Army garrison at Fort Totten, North Dakota. At Fort Totten, McCreight met with Indians trading buffalo bones to be sold as fertilizer in the lucrative St. Louis market.\n\nMcCreight began his lifelong kinship with Native Americans in Devils Lake. The first people to meet and greet him as he stepped down from the platform of the train were a small band of Sioux. \n\nThey were a fine healthy lot; and as the travel-worn youth with his carpet-bag and lunch basket looked about for someone from whom he might ask directions, the Chief stepped up and with extended hand, said: \"How cola!\" Half in fright and with a puzzled hand-shake, the boy made his way toward what seemed to be the white man's town. He passed by a large pile of bones, and wondered what it meant. It was not many days until he was informed, for soon he found himself in full charge of the business of buying and shipping buffalo bones including the very pile which had so aroused his curiosity on arrival in the far west; for this was Indian and buffalo country then, but it proved to be the end for both shortly thereafter. It was the last year for the buffalo; and it was the last year of the happy, healthy, life for the Indians. Indians had killed his great-grandfather and carried on a war of extermination against his forebears in Pennsylvania in the old days. That kindly greeting by the old Sioux Chief quickly dispelled much of the prejudice that had filled his heart through childhood, and soon the youth began to think that Indians were not such terrible folks as Eastern people believed they were.\n\nKnown as the \"Indian Man\" because of his friendships,\nMcCreight prevented a confrontation between the 7th Cavalry Regiment and aggrieved Ojibwe from Turtle Mountain Indian Reservation. In 1885, a band of 100–150 of Chief Little Shell's Ojibwe warriors left the Turtle Mountain Indian Reservation and came to Devils Lake on a Sunday morning before day break while the town was sleeping. The Ojibwe were in a serious dispute with the U.S. government and were angry because white settlers were breaking treaties, stealing Indian timber and killing Indian game. They came to Devils Lake to protest, determined to right a grievance and threatening the settlers. McCreight was the \"Indian Man\" in Devils Lake, and his roommate doctor woke him before sunrise saying: \"Get up quick, the Indians are out there; they are holding a war-dance; they mean devilment and will burn the town; hurry, and see what you can do with them!\" McCreight was sympathetic to Ojibwe grievances and understood their anger and frustration. He immediately went to the Ojibwe camp, parleyed with Little Shell and eventually persuaded the natives to return to Turtle Mountain. McCreight reported, \n\nIt was all over before the town folks stirred about after their late Sunday morning breakfast; and over their own late breakfast, the doctor and the writer decided it best to say nothing, to avoid publicity, for it might interfere with business, and perhaps bring the wrath of General George Armstrong Custer's troops at the fort, against the suffering natives, and so the incident was closed and soon forgotten — forgotten except for the life-long humiliation at failure of the Bureau of Indian Affairs to intercede for and protect the rights of these abused natives.\n\nMcCreight also worked for James J. Hill the legendary \" Empire Builder\" of the Great Northern Railway. Hill's vision included the introduction of cattle into the Great Plains to replace the buffalo as a food source, fatten them in the West, and ship them back to the East. Hill began his cattle promotion with the 'Great Fat Stock Show', July 4, 1886 in Devil's Lake, then the far western terminus of the Great Northern Railway. The Great Fat Stock Show was a gala midsummer fair of bronco-busting, horse races, Indian war dances and festivities. Hill needed someone with banking experience to manage the show, and McCreight was \"commandeered\" to serve as \"ticket seller, money counter and banker.\" The show was a success and Hill later invited McCreight to shovel the dirt to lay the first railroad tie to the Great Northern Railway transcontinental system from Devils Lake to Seattle, Washington.\n\nMcCreight became friends with many Native Americans and Chief Wa-na-ta (Waanatan II) visited McCreight's office regularly to smoke tobacco. McCreight was impressed with the old chief's dignity and bearing. \n\nOne day he signed that he wished a private interview, when he drew from his blanket a package which he exhibited as something he held more precious than any other treasure. It was carefully wrapped in old newspaper, and after it had been divested of the strings and unrolled to be read, it proved to be the parchment or treaty with Government officials, his own name inscribed as head or Grand Chief. Having thus established his old-day tribal office, he carefully refolded the document, wrapped it in the faded news sheet and returned it to the inner folds of his blanket, then nimbly squatted on the office floor, filled his pipe and enjoyed his usual half-hour smoke. \n\nChief Wa-na-ta's smoking pipe was his most precious possession.\n\nA titled English ranch-owner who knew of his importance in history offered any price that the old chief would name for the pipe and pouch, but the chief disdained to listen to any offer of money. But when I squatted beside him on the floor, where he was puffing meditatively on his long red-stone pipe, to tell him of leaving next week for a trip west, he arose instantly, untied his belt, laid both pouch and pipe across his left hand and extended it to me as a present and token to be preserved after he had passed to the long sleep.\n\nMcCreight forever remembered the kindness and generosity of Chief Wa-na-ta.\n\nIn 1886, McCreight returned to Du Bois, Pennsylvania from the Dakota Territory and accepted a position as assistant cashier and director of the First National Bank. McCreight maintained relationships with friends in the Dakotas. Among them was the legendary U.S. Army Scout, Colonel William Frederick \"Buffalo Bill\" Cody.\n\nIn 1886 Buffalo Bill, accompanied by Oglala companions from his Wild West, passed through Du Bois on the way home to North Platte, Nebraska. After meeting McCreight's childhood sweetheart Alice Humphrey, Cody prompted for an immediate wedding, and McCreight and Alice were married in July, 1887.\n\nOn June 4, 1888, seeing an opportunity to manage his own bank, McCreight purchased the Du Bois Deposit Bank. However, just two weeks later a catastrophic fire raged out of control in the center of the town's wooden structures. McCreight joined a bucket brigade to fight the inferno but the new bank was destroyed. Fortunately, the contents of the safe were recovered and McCreight quickly resumed banking operations.\n\nBy 1898, Du Bois Deposit Bank was the only bank in town and McCreight was the treasurer, secretary or director of most local institutions and businesses. McCreight was a \"One-man Chamber of Commerce\" and partnered diverse business enterprises.\nHe successfully acquired land in north central Pennsylvania for coal and railroad interests, and brought the Buffalo, Rochester and Pittsburgh Railroad, the Buffalo and Susquehanna Railroad and the Erie Railroad to Du Bois. McCreight led the Du Bois region into prominence as the biggest bituminous coal producer in the United States between 1890 and World War I.\n\nMcCreight was also \"First Citizen of Du Bois\". He led the development of light-rail transportation, public electricity, a public water system and other urban infrastructure, and held leadership positions with the school board, draft board and local board of trade. McCreight was a founder of the Pennsylvania Banker's Association and a member of the Pennsylvania Society of New York.\n\nBuffalo Bill and his Wild West was back in Du Bois in September 1901. At this time McCreight lived in his townhouse, and had not yet moved to The Wigwam. \"At the opening of the 20th Century a crowd of twelve Oglala Lakota came to spend the evening with the writer. Besides Chief Lone Bear, Chief Flying Hawk was in the party. The yard outside was covered with neighbors, big and little, who had seen them come, arrayed in their war bonnets, beaded regalia and gay plumes of eagle quills, as they climbed to and spread over the wide veranda and swung open their richly covered blankets. It was a surprise visit from old-time western friends. Don [McCreight's eldest son] was quickly dispatched for cigars, fruit and candy, with a large market basket and instructions to deliver same to the back door, to apportion the supplies, and pass them around when the Indians got seated inside. Don was thirteen, and full of business. At the proper time, he appeared from the kitchen with both arms full, a cigar for each man on the platter, and another with candy, bananas, oranges and grapes.\n\nDon set the fruit basket on a table in the outer room, and proceeded to pass the cigars, beginning with the big chief. As he modestly handed the platter to the chief to take one cigar, the whole dozen or more were scooped from the plate and quickly stored within his blanket. The boy was \"game,\" and went back his kitchen stores and brought another supply, and went on passing them to the others-one at a time.\" \n\nChief Lone Bear noticed a pair of boxing gloves on the floor and signed to the writer to explain. They belonged to the [McCreight] twins, aged five. More signals indicated he wanted to see them box. The two boys stood with open eyes gazing at the strange people, and it took a little coaxing to get the boys to put on the gloves. But they, too, were game, and came to dad to have them tied on. All smiles, the visitors spread their chairs, through the arch into the big parlor, so as to form a large area, for the bout. Dad called \"time\" and the boys went to it rough and tumble. They immediately forgot their modesty and the audience. No fight in the prize rings of New York or Boston ever witnessed better sparring. It was a battle to the finish; bloody noses and howls of laughter from the Indians all the while it lasted. When they were exhausted and their dad stopped the fight, the old chief ordered that they both be adopted into the tribe as worthy of membership in \"The Nation of the Fighting Sioux.\"\n\nThe Wigwam, McCreight's home in Du Bois, Pennsylvania, was part of a 1,300 acre estate with heavily forested lands. The Wigwam sits at 2,140 feet atop Prospect Knob in Sandy Township, Clearfeld County, Pennsylvania, near the Goschgoschink Path where the Great Divide of the Alleghenies was once visible 18 miles to the East. The Wigwam is located in the wilds of north central Pennsylvania and once had an electric beacon for navigation of New York to San Francisco Air Mail flyers. The Wigwam was once considered for development as a Pennsylvania State Park.\n\nThe Wigwam was a well-spring of images and narratives of Oglala Lakota Wild Westers during the early 20th century. The Wigwam was a retreat for Progressive Era politicians, businessmen, journalists and adventurers; the Eastern home of Oglala Lakota \"Oskate Wicasa\"; Chief Flying Hawk's second home for 30 years and a Native American heritage center. Du Bois, Pennsylvania, a northcentral railroad hub on the Eastern Continental divide, had two active passenger rail stations, the Buffalo, Rochester and Pittsburgh and the Pennsylvania Railroad, and was always a welcome rest stop for weary travelers. For \"Old Scouts\" Col. William F. \"Buffalo Bill\" Cody, Robert Edmund Strahorn and Captain Jack Crawford, from the Great Sioux War, the Wigwam was a place to relax, smoke and talk about the Old West. The Old Scouts were adventurers and masters of American Wild West images and narratives.\n\nWild Westers needed a place to relax, and The Wigwam was a warm and welcome home where Indians could be Indians, sleep in buffalo skins and tipis, walk in the woods, have a hearty breakfast, smoke their pipes and tell of their stories and deeds. On one occasion 150 Indians with Buffalo Bill's Wild West camped in the forests of The Wigwam. Oglala Lakota Chiefs Iron Tail and Flying Hawk considered The Wigwam their home in the East. Oglala Lakota Chiefs American Horse, Blue Horse, John Grass, Black Thunder, Whirlwind Horse, Turkey Legs, Lone Bear, Iron Cloud, Bear Dog, Yellow Boy, Rain-In-The-Face, Hollow Horn Bear, Kills-Close-To-Lodge, Red Eagle, Good Face (Eta Waste), Benjamin Brave (Ohitika) and Thunder Bull visited The Wigwam. Legendary Crow Chief Plenty Coups was also a welcome visitor.\n\nAn \"old-time\" Mohawk Council House of the Six Nations was erected for ceremonies and visits, and on one occasion 150 Indians camped in the forests of The Wigwam. The sound of tom-tom drums was frequently heard from The Wigwam.\nSurprise visits, parties and gala celebrations were common at The Wigwam. In 1915, McCreight hosted a grand reception for Chief Iron Tail and Chief Flying Hawk. \n\n\"Old Scouts\" Robert E. Strahorn, Captain Jack Crawford and Col. Buffalo Bill Cody shaped the popular vision of the American West through their images and narratives. At The Wigwam, the home of their friend Major Israel McCreight(\"Cante Tanke\") in Du Bois, Pennsylvania, they could relax, smoke and talk about the Old West. While the Old Scouts found adventure, glory and fame in the Great Sioux War of 1876, in later years they would not talk of it. All expressed remorse.\n\nRobert Edmund Strahorn (1852 -1944) is notable in American history as a war correspondent with the \"New York Times\", \"Chicago Tribune\" and the \"Rocky Mountain News\" during the Great Sioux War, a scout and publicist for the Union Pacific Railroad and a builder of the Pacific Northwest. Strahorn was a journalist and adventurer who shaped the vision of the American West. \"No man knew the West as he knew it\" and \"few persons had a more active or important if less prominent part in the building of the West.\"\n\nJohn Wallace (Jack) Crawford (1847-1917), known as \"The Poet Scout\", was an adventurer, educator and author. \"Captain Jack\" was a master storyteller about the Wild West and is known in American history as one of America's most popular performers in the late nineteenth century. His perilous ride to tell the news of the great victory by Gen. George Crook against the camp of Chief American Horse at the Battle of Slim Buttes during the Great Sioux War made him a national celebrity.\n\nWilliam F. \"Buffalo Bill\" Cody (1846 – 1917) was a Pony Express rider, soldier, buffalo hunter and showman. Buffalo Bill received the Medal of Honor in 1872 for service to the U.S. Army as a scout. Cody's images and narratives of the American Wild West and Native Americans are nonpareil. During the Progressive Era, Buffalo Bill was one of the most popular entertainers in America and Europe.\n\nOld Scouts Strahorn, Crawford and Cody found adventure, glory and fame in the Great Sioux War of 1876-1877. Captain Jack's race with Frank Grouard and perilous ride to tell the news of the great victory at Slim Buttes made him a national celebrity. Strahorn remarked that his service in the Sioux War won him undreamed of laurels. Cody's fight with the young Cheyenne warrior Yellow Hand and \"First Scalp for Custer\" launched his theatrical career with a force never before experienced in the relationship between the press and the fledgling world of show business.\n\nThe Battle of Slim Buttes and the destruction of Oglala Lakota Chief American Horse's village epitomized the excesses of U.S. Army and Indian warfare of the period. Indian villages were attacked at dawn, sacked and burned. Warriors were killed, captured and dispersed; food, lodges and supplies were destroyed; ponies were seized or killed; and many women and children were killed in the confusion. The major military objective was to hit Indian commissaries and starve them into submission. \"Humanistically speaking, the tactic was immoral, but for an army charged with subjugating the Sioux and other dissident Plains tribes, it was justified for the simple reason that it worked.\" \n\nWhile the Old Scouts found adventure, glory and fame in the Sioux War, in later years they would not talk of it. Captain Jack and Strahorn were with General George Crook at the Battle of Slim Buttes and expressed remorse. Crawford declined to give any details of his observations at Slim Buttes. He said it was something he neither wanted to discuss or hear of; he said it hurt him even to have to think about it. Captain Jack said he had taken \"one top-knot\" at the Battle of Slim Buttes during a fight in which he \"came near losing\" his own hair. He later regretted his bloody deed and never spoke of it in his public performances \n\nStrahorn was always reticent when attempts were made to get him to relate his experiences with Crook's army. Like Crawford, he wished that the Slim Buttes affair could be stricken from historical records; it was too painful for him to talk of it at all. Strahorn later recalled Chief American Horse and the ravine at Slim Buttes. \"The yelling of Indians, discharge of guns, cursing of soldiers, crying of children, barking of dogs, the dead crowded in the bottom of the gory, slimy ditch, and the shrieks of the wounded, presented the most agonizing scene that clings in my memory of Sioux warfare.\" \n\nBuffalo Bill would not discuss the killing of Chief American Horse at Slim Buttes He just shook his head and said it was too bad to talk about. While Cody did not participate in the Battle of Slim Buttes, he took a scalp at the Battle of Warbonnet Creek on July 17, 1876, in a skirmish characterized as a duel between Buffalo Bill and a young Cheyenne warrior named Yellow Hair. The engagement, often referred to as the \"First Scalp for Custer\", was dramatized with Captain Jack in their consolidated theater act. Buffalo Bill displayed the fallen warrior's scalp, feather war bonnet, knife, saddle and other personal effects. However, scalping Indians become loathsome to Buffalo Bill.\n\nIn 1915, McCreight hosted a grand reception for Chief Iron Tail and Chief Flying Hawk at The Wigwam. \n\nWhen Chief Iron Tail was finished with greeting the long line of judges, bankers, lawyers, business men and neighbors who filed past in a receiving line just as the President is obliged to receive and shake the hands of multitude of strangers who call on New Years, the chief grasped hold of the fine buffalo robe which had been thrown over a porch bench for him to rest on drawing it around his shoulders, walked out on the lawn and lay down to gaze into the clouds and over the hundred mile sweep of the hills and valleys forming the Eastern Continental Divide. He had fulfilled his social obligations when he had submitted to an hour of incessant hand-shaking, as he could talk in English, further crowd mixing did not appeal to him. He preferred to relax and smoke his redstone pipe and wait his call to the big dining room. There he re-appeared in the place of honor and partook of the good things in the best of grace and gentlemanly deportment. His courteous behavior, here and at all places and occasions when in company of the writer, was worthy of emulation by the most exalted white man or woman! \n\nAfter Chief Iron Tail had shaken hands with the assembled guests he gathered the big buffalo hide about his shoulders, waived aside the crowd and walked away. He spread the woolly robe on the grass, sat down upon it and lit his pipe, as if to say, \"I've done my social duty, now I wish to enjoy myself.\"\n\nChief Flying Hawk long remembered the gala festivities. \"Here he himself and his close friend Iron Tail had held a reception once long ago, for hundreds of their friends, when bankers, preachers, teachers, businessmen, farmers, came from near and far along with their ladies, to pay their respects and say, How Cola!\" \n\nThe historian Chief Flying Hawk reminded that when dinner was served, Iron Tail asked to have his own and Flying Hawk's meals brought to them on the open porch where they ate from a table he now sat beside, while the many white folks occupied the dining-room, where they could discuss Indians without embarrassment. This, he remembered, was a good time, and they talked about it for a long time together, but now, his good friend had left him and was in the Sand Hills.\n\nThe Wigwam was Chief Flying Hawk's second home for nearly thirty years. Traveling with Wild West shows, pony riding, war dances and inclement weather weighed on Chief Flying Hawk's health. Chief Flying Hawk could have rest and relaxation at The Wigwam. Here he could rise with the morning sun for a walk in the forest, enjoy a breakfast of bacon and eggs, with fruit and coffee, smoke his redstone pipe and have a glass of sherry before retiring. Chief Flying Hawk, \"refused to be sent to a bedroom, and asked to have the buffalo robes and blankets. With them he made his couch on the open veranda floor, where he retired in the moonlight.\" McCreight was impressed with Chief Flying Hawk's grace and dignity, and described Chief Flying Hawk's meticulous grooming. \"The Chief was engaged in taking down his long hair-plaits in which were woven strips of otter fur. From his kit sack he took his comb and bottle of bear's oil and carefully combed and oiled his hair, made up new plaits, then applied a little paint to his cheeks, looked into a small hand-mirror, and was ready to answer questions. His hair, now still reaching to his waist, was streaked with grey. In reply to how Indians were able to retain their hair in such perfect condition, he said they didn't always retain it, sometimes they got scalped, but they prided themselves in caring for their bodies. He said that long ago Indians often had hair that reached the ground.\" However, even in the relaxed atmosphere of The Wigwam, there was a formality to the visits. Of importance, Flying Hawk was an Oglala Lakota Chief and it was his duty to display his beautiful eagle feather \"Chief's Wand\" during visits to The Wigwam. \n\nAt sun-up the Chief was missing. Breakfast was delayed. Presently, Chief Flying Hawk was seen coming from the forest which nearly surrounds The Wigwam. In his hand he carried a green switch six feet in length. From his traveling bag he took a bundle which he carefully unfolded and laid out, a beautiful eagle feather streamer which he attached to the pole at either end. After testing it in the breeze he handed it to McCreight with gentle admonishment to keep it in a place where it could always been seen. It was the Chief's \"wand,\" and he said it must always be kept where it could be seen, else people would not know who was Chief. Having disposed of this, to him, important duty, the Chief was ready for breakfast. \n\nJoseph Blue Horse, the grandson of Chief Blue Horse, was a friend of Major Israel McCreight of Du Bois, Pennsylvania, and full-time resident of The Wigwam for three years. A veteran of World War I, Blue Horse went Wild Westing with Miller Brothers 101 Ranch and for many years was billed as \"The World's Champion Rider\". Later, Blue Horse was billed as a musician with the show. During his years at The Wigwam, Blue Horse preferred a traditional tipi to a bedroom in the home and was known affectionately as \"Teddy\". Joseph Blue Horse assisted McCreight with estate duties and frequently visited local schools talking to children about Oglala Lakota heritage, singing songs and performing stunts.\n\nFrom 1906 to 1958, over 50 years, The Wigwam was a Native American heritage center dedicated to educating the public about Native American history and culture; displaying a collection of gifts and tokens left by Native American friends to thousands of visiting school children, politicians and businessmen; and inviting visiting Native Americans to receptions and to speak at public schools. McCreight dedicated his life to educating the public about Native American history and culture.\n\nThe Wigwam was the home of Major Israel McCreight's famous Native American collection. The collection was considered to be among the best-documented Native American collections in the nation and contained hundreds of historically significant items. Many artifacts were gifts and tokens of personal adornment left by Native American visitors in gratitude and friendship. McCreight carefully recorded the names, dates and occasions, later detailing the events in books he authored during the 1920s, 1930s and 1940s. During the fall of 1886, while residing in Devils Lake, Dakota Territory, McCreight a young man of 21, was given a special gift of a pipe and tobacco bag by Chief Wa-na-ta. McCreight forever remembered the kindness and generosity of Chief Wa-na-ta. These gifts marked the beginning of a collection of Native American artifacts to grow in national prominence and number during the next seven decades. McCreight was an historian and the collection served as an educational tool for the study of Native American heritage. The collection was publicly displayed at The Wigwam to local residents, school children, politicians, businessmen and Native Americans for over fifty years. The Wigwam was a treasure house of relics and thousands of school children, scouts and others interested in Indian lore had the opportunity of viewing the collection. McCreight dedicated his life to educating the public and \"Young America\" about Native American history and culture, giving many speeches and inviting visiting Native Americans to speak at public schools. Joseph Blue Horse from Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, South Dakota, resided at The Wigwam for three years and frequently visited local schools talking to children about Oglala Lakota heritage, singing songs and performing stunts.\n\nMcCreight knew many of the great Native American chiefs whose personal adornments filled The Wigwam, many of whom had been visitors to Du Bois, Pennsylvania, and he spoke of their stories with great eloquence, esteem and kinship. Plenty Coups, Grand Chief of the Crows, was an occasional visitor to The Wigwam during President Warren G. Harding's term. \"The tall and dignified Chief took a lively interest in looking over the collection of Indian relics at the Wigwam.\" \"Flying Hawk related a time when he and Iron Tail spent an evening in the Indian room of the Wigwam going over all of the items there including pipes, war bonnets, moccasins, and other paraphernalia once belonging to Wanata, Red Cloud, Sitting Bull and other of their old-time friends. He said that Iron Tail told him it made him sad when he looked at all these things.\" Chief Flying Hawk contributed his personal adornments and possessions to McCreight's collection. \"When my brother Kicking Bear died he was put in a grave on a hill. All his things are put in a grave with him. I will see his son, Kicking Bear, if they will let us dig open the grave and take out the arrow-head and send it to this wigwam to put along with my things.\" When Chief Flying Hawk passed to the \"Sand Hills\" on December 30, 1930, McCreight expressed his kinship and esteem with a public announcement and exhibit in the Du Bois Public Library displaying chief Flying Hawk's beaded jacket, pouch and pipe. Chief Flying Hawk was well known to the people of Du Bois, Pennsylvania, and McCreight remarked, \"The schools are much interested in the exhibit as well as others of the town who had met him on other occasions.\" In his later years, McCreight attempted to donate the collection to museums, but without any success. McCreight cared for these national heritage treasures in The Wigwam until his death at the age of 94 in 1958. After his death, McCreight's Native American Collection at The Wigwam was sold and is now with private collectors and museums around the world.\n\nThe Wigwam was demolished in 2011 after being deemed an unsafe structure.\n\nMcCreight knew Col. Cody as a U.S. Army Cavalry Scout and Buffalo Bill visited Du Bois on many occasions. Buffalo Bill presided over McCreight's adoption as \"Cante Tanke\", honorary Chief of the Oglala Lakota, on June 22, 1908. Both had enduring lifetime friendships with Native Americans and special bonds to Chief Iron Tail and Chief Flying Hawk. The Wigwam in Du Bois was always a welcome rest stop from exhausting travels and a chance to relax, smoke and talk about the Old West times. The Wigwam was a Native American heritage center and once the Eastern home of Oglala Lakota traveling with Wild West Shows.\n\nBuffalo Bill's visit to The Wigwam on June 22, 1908, was an event in Wild West history. On this occasion, Monroe McCanles was McCreight's houseguest and told Buffalo Bill about his father Dave McCanles having been shot by Wild Bill Hickok. The \"McCanles Incident\" was the subject of controversy and debate by Wild West historians. Monroe McCanles disclosed that at the age of twelve he had stood beside his father Dave McCanles when Wild Bill Hickok shot him dead behind a curtain. For the first time, Buffalo Bill heard the facts of the historic event and remarked that he would include the story in his projected autobiography. McCreight wrote articles about the McCanles Incident the rest of his life.\n\nChief Iron Tail was an international personality and appeared as the lead with Buffalo Bill at the Champs-Élysées in Paris, France and the Colosseum in Rome, Italy. In France, as in England, Buffalo Bill and Chief Iron Tail were feted by the aristocracy. Iron Tail was one of Buffalo Bill's best friends and they hunted elk and bighorn together on annual trips. On one of his visits to The Wigwam, Buffalo Bill asked Iron Tail to illustrate in pantomime how he played and won a game of poker with U.S. army officials during a Treaty Council in the old days. \"Going through all the forms of the game from dealing to antes and betting and drawing a last card during which no word was uttered and his countenance like a statue, he suddenly swept the table clean into his blanket and rose from the table and strutted away. It was a piece of superb acting, and exceedingly funny.\" Buffalo Bill regarded Chief Iron Tail as one of the greatest men he ever knew. McCreight and Buffalo Bill grieved over the death of Iron Tail. With deep emotion, Buffalo Bill said he was going to put a granite stone on Chief Iron Tail's grave with a replica of the Buffalo nickel (for which Chief Iron Tail had posed) carved on it as a memento.\n\nHowever, Col. Cody died on January 10, 1917, just six months after Chief Iron Tail's death. In a ceremony at Buffalo Bill's grave on Lookout Mountain, west of Denver, Colorado, Chief Flying Hawk laid his war staff of eagle feathers on the grave. Each of the veteran Show Indians placed a Buffalo nickel on the imposing stone as a symbol of the Indian, the Buffalo, and the Scout, figures since the 1880s that were symbolic of the early history of the American West.\nMcCreight next saw the Colonel in the main dining room of the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, at the close of his 1915 season. Cody was having breakfast with his wife and McCreight joined them for a chat. McCreight was surprised at the Colonel's appearance. He had aged greatly since their last meeting. His hair was a mass of straggling, wispy white and his face was deeply wrinkled. \"We talked about Iron Tail's death, and Cody almost wept in his grief. He keenly regretted not receiving my wire, believing as I did that the ailing chief might have recovered among friends at The Wigwam. Tactfully I changed the subject.\" \"He said that he would go out again for the 1916 season, and hoped to see us at the Wigwam on that roundup. But the old Colonel was about at the end of the long trail.\" McCreight's last meeting with Buffalo Bill was in 1916. \"He went out as promised at the start of the 1916 campaign and I saw him at the end of the last performance. Going to his tent at the rear of the show-grounds, I found him lying on his blankets, with his snowy head resting on his saddle. He was asleep, but roused at once at my greeting. He arose, shook hands, and immediately spoke of Iron Tail. With deep emotion, he said he was going to put a granite stone on the chief's grave, with a replica of the Buffalo nickel (for which Iron Tail had posed) carved on it as a memento. Cody's voice trembled as he again expressed his great regret at not receiving my telegram that might have saved Iron Tail's life. I was shocked and saddened to observe how feeble he was. I helped him to his feet, guided him to his private car and saw him to his berth. I shook hands with him for the last time. Not long after, Buffalo Bill went to his last long sleep.\" Col. Cody died on January 10, 1917, just six months after Chief Iron Tail's death. In a ceremony at Buffalo Bill's grave on Lookout Mountain, west of Denver, Colorado, Chief Flying Hawk laid his war staff of eagle feathers on the grave. Each of the veteran Show Indians placed a Buffalo nickel on the imposing stone as a symbol of the Indian, the buffalo, and the scout, figures since the 1880s that were symbolic of the early history of the American West. Chief Flying Hawk's dear friends Buffalo Bill and Chief Iron Tail had gone to the Sand Hills.\nMcCreight grieved for Buffalo Bill and wrote two poems in his honor.\n\n<poem>\nDear Bill, I s'pose this roundup is the last for you; Guess th' band 's all in the corral for good. 'Hardly think a stray got past your lariat 'n steady gun and yell.\nBut if they did't won't do no harm at all for brand'n season aint worth now'days\nAnyhow they ain't goin' to call on rustlers such as you, there's other ways.\n'Reckon th' scout'n days 's over too, th' days when red and white men disagreed,\nwhen red ones wondered what to do to live when the white men stole away their feed. Then pony ridin's past and gone and buffalo killin's gone the rounds,\nTh' bones whereof some men got rich upon sending owners to th' happy hunting grounds. Looks as if your work was done Bill, since th' Overland is paved with steel 'stead of oxen painting over plain and hill all gone for good, there's a new deal. I hate to say good bye but guess it's true that you have quit us all f'r good, can't see how we're goin' t' see an' do th' things that seem's you only could.</poem>\n\n<poem>\nSalute at last the Great Commander; thou; With flowing curls, sombrero low in hand. Steed firm and steady, trained to bow in time and grace to loving master's wand. We hail thee! Pioneer of all the West. Man of the World who knew world-making. We honor thee, a leader 'mongst the best. Mourn in thy sleep that knows no waking.</poem>\n\nSometime in the early 1900s McCreight received a scrawled hand written letter in pencil reading: \"Please send me three hundred dollars. I am in jail. I will send it back to you when I get out of jail.\" The letter was signed Felix Flying Hawk. There was no date, heading or return address. However, the postmark showed Chadron, Nebraska, a few miles south of the Dakota line just off the Indian reservation. McCreight knew Chief Flying Hawk, but did not know that he had any relatives, much less a son. McCreight tells the story:\n\nMemories of old Indian days came thick and fast. First hand knowledge on how white neighbors regarded the Indian's property as legitimate prey for trickery or even theft. Never having known an Indian to lie or steal or in anyone misrepresent a thing to him, the writer decided to investigate this strange case. What to do to learn the facts! A telegram was addressed to the sheriff of the county in which the town of Chadron was located: 'Please wire me the facts in the case of Felix Flying Hawk in jail. I demand his immediate release and will honor your draft for actual costs. Two days passed and a letter from the sheriff explained that the Indian had been arrested for stealing horses and was held under three hundreds dollars in lack of bail. But that on receipt of the telegram had released the prisoner and drew a draft for $50.00 to cover costs. Next day a draft came in and was paid. A month passed and the mail brought a letter postmarked Chadron. On slitting it to find what? No letter at all, but a U.S. Treasury warrant payable to and duly endorsed by the Indian Felix Flying Hawk, for the sum of fifty dollars. That was all. \n\nMcCreight is noted in American history for authoring President Theodore Roosevelt's conservation policy on public education.\n\nMcCreight brokered the purchase of land in north central Pennsylvania for coal and railroad interests, and saw millions of acres of forests reduced to a desolate waste of blackened stumps. He realized the great Eastern forests could have produced lumber for generations if care had been exercised and advocated a conservation policy based upon public education in the schools.\n\nBeginning in 1906, McCreight argued that President Roosevelt's conservation speeches were limited to businessmen in the lumber industry and recommended a campaign of youth education and a national policy on conservation education. McCreight urged President Theodore Roosevelt to make a public statement to school children about trees and the destruction of American forests. Conservationist Gifford Pinchot, Chief of the United States Forest Service, embraced McCreight's recommendations and asked the President speak to the public school children of the United States about conservation. On April 15, 1907, President Theodore Roosevelt issued an Arbor Day Proclamation to the School Children of the United States about the importance of trees and that forestry deserves to be taught in our schools. Pinchot wrote McCreight, \"we shall all be indebted to you for having made the suggestion.\"\n\nMcCreight was creator and steward of Cook Forest State Park, the first Pennsylvania State Park acquired to preserve a natural landmark, and a founder of the Pennsylvania Conservation Association.\n\nCook Forest is the most important tract of virgin timberland to be found in Pennsylvania, and is without rival for size East of the Rockies. Once called the \"Black Forest,\" the area is famous for its towering white pines and hemlocks.\n\nThe idea to make Cook Forest a public park originated with McCreight on his first visit to the \"Forest Cathedral\" near the Clarion River in northwest central Pennsylvania. \"It was a beautiful day, August 21, 1910, that the writer with a few others were invited to a weekend house party at the A.W. Cook home. Cook would comment, as he led the way into the silent 'temple of the gods', and then listen to the exclamations of astonishment that were sure to come from those who followed along the fern-bound path in this fairyland. Often there was heard no comment, for in this silent cathedral of the Almighty, it was unuttered. Frequently it was observed that sturdy men could not restrain their tears, at the solemnity of their environment. It was during this walk that A.W. Cook and the writer sat down on a log to talk about the future fate of the magnificent panorama they saw and felt all about them. The writer said to him: 'Cook, no greater crime could be committed than to destroy this; it shall not be destroyed; it must be saved for humanity's sake.\"\n\nMcCreight was determined to save the forest and began a campaign to conserve the natural landmark. In 1910, McCreight and others formed the Pennsylvania Conservation Association and successfully lobbied the legislature to consider Cook Forest for state park purposes. For sixteen years a series of unsuccessful legislative bills were introduced for the state to acquire Cook Forest. In 1923, the Cook Forest Association was formed for the purpose of acquiring the Cook Forest tract of virgin white pine and hemlock.\n\nOn April 14, 1927, a bill was signed by Governor John Stuchell Fisher appropriating $450,000 on condition that the Cook Forest Association raise the remaining $200,000 to purchase the 6,055 acres. On December 28, 1928, the funds having been raised, the Secretary of the Department of Forests and Waters announced the formal purchase.\n\nIn January 1929, just a year after the purchase of Cook Forest by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, McCreight proposed to the Bureau of Indian Affairs that Native Americans return to live in their historic natural home in Cook Forest along the Clarion River. The Seneca people of the Iroquois Confederacy once inhabited the great forest, and McCreight envisioned man once again living in harmony with nature. It was also a wonderful opportunity for McCreight's Lakota friends to regularly visit The Wigwam. The project was supported by Pennsylvania Governor John S. Fisher and the Bureau of Indian Affairs.\n\nCook Forest State Park stands as a monument to the memory and vision of Major Israel McCreight.\n\nOn June 22, 1908, \"Buffalo Bill\" Cody visited Du Bois with his Wild West Congress of Rough Riders. Twelve thousand people a day attended Cody's Wild West performances and 150 Oglalas were in town with 150 ponies. After knowing the Oglala Lakota for almost twenty years, McCreight was adopted as an honorary Chief and named \"Cante Tanke\" (\"Great Heart\")(Čhaŋté Tȟáŋka). The ceremony was performed by Chief Iron Tail assembled at Buffalo Bill's tent and attended by Chief American Horse, Chief Whirlwind Horse, Chief Lone Bear and 100 Oglala Lakota members of the Wild West Congress of Rough Riders. The Oglala Lakota chiefs formed a small circle around McCreight and Alice, and Chief Iron Tail began the ceremony with a speech in Oglala Lakota, a hearty handshake all around, and then placed a war bonnet McCreight's head and moccasins upon his feet. Chief Iron Tail presented McCreight with a tepee on which an owl had been traced with yellow chalk and told this was for him and Alice to live in. Tom-tom drums were then beaten and tribal songs put up vigorously. Concluding remarks were made by Chief Iron Tail ending with hearty handshakes. Buffalo Bill and Chief Iron Tail were loaded into a new 1908 Rambler touring car and driven to McCreight's town house for the banquet which followed. There Chief Iron Tail was presented with a new Winchester rifle as a souvenir of the event. McCreight was forever moved by the solemnity of the occasion, and carried the honor proudly and with distinction the rest of his life. McCreight later remarked that the title, honorary Chief of the Oglala Lakota, was a far greater tribute than could have been conferred by any president or military organization. McCreight celebrated and honored Oglala Lakota culture, signing correspondence Tchanta Tanka or Tchanti Tanka, the phonetic equivalence of \"Chann-Tey-Tonk-A\", the Lakota pronouncement of his adopted name Cante Tanke. McCreight was impressed with the intelligence, honesty and generosity of Native Americans. He studied Native American culture and languages, recorded his life events, wrote books and articles and maintained lifelong personal relationships. Photographs of McCreight's wearing traditional dress portray his identification with the Oglala Lakota people. In 1929, McCreight's nomination for U.S. Indian Commissioner was supported by the Oglala Lakota people.\n\nIn May 1916, Iron Tail became ill with pneumonia while performing with the Miller Brothers 101 Ranch Wild West in Philadelphia and was placed in St. Luke's Hospital. Buffalo Bill was obliged to go on to Baltimore with his show the next day and Iron Tail was left alone in a strange city with doctors and nurses who could not communicate with him. McCreight learned about the Chief's admission to the hospital in the morning Philadelphia paper, and immediately sent a telegram to Buffalo Bill to send Iron Tail by next train to Du Bois, Pennsylvania, for care at The Wigwam. No reply was had and the wire was not delivered or forwarded to Baltimore. Instead the hospital authorities put Chief Iron Tail on a Pullman, ticketed for home to the Black Hills. On May 28, 1916, when the porter of his car went to wake him at South Bend, Indiana, Iron Tail was dead, his body continuing on to its destination. Buffalo Bill expressed regret that the Chief was sent to the hospital and that he had not received the telegram. Iron Tail's body was transferred to a hospital in Rushville, Nebraska, then to Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, where he was buried at Holy Rosary Mission Cemetery on June 3, 1916.\n\nFor nearly 30 years, Chief Flying Hawk made periodic visits to McCreight at The Wigwam. McCreight collaborated with Flying Hawk, an Oglala Lakota Chief, to write a Native American's view of U.S. history and classic accounts of the Battle of the Little Big Horn, Crazy Horse and commentaries on Native American philosophy. Flying Hawk was a profound historian and philosopher. After Chief Flying Hawk died in December 1931, McCreight dedicated his life to telling the Old Chief's story.\nIn 1936, at the age of 72, and after eight years of effort, McCreight published \"Chief Flying Hawk's Tales: The True Story of Custer's Last Fight\". McCreight followed with \"'The Wigwam: Puffs from the Peace Pipe\" in 1943. In 1947, at the age of 82, McCreight published \"Firewater and Forked Tongues: A Sioux Chief Interprets U.S. History\".\n\nDavid Flying Hawk was the eldest son of Felix Flying Hawk. David was a Wild Wester and traveled with his grandfather Chief Flying Hawk. On March 25, 1927, Chief Flying Hawk wrote McCreight for assistance, reporting that David had been arrested and jailed for horse stealing.\nMcCreight well recalled the story of David's father Felix Flying Hawk, jailed in the early 1900s for stealing his own horses, and the injustice visited upon Native Americans. However, despite McCreight's considerable efforts, David spent almost a year in county jails. The impact on David's family was catastrophic, and without his help, Felix's farm failed. Felix wrote McCreight. \"And they make spoil my family no farm on this year, because my son David was in jail and nobody can not help to work on our farm, and also David's sister, age 20 years, she was dead on May 15, 1927, for I am sorry everythings.\" McCreight reported that, \"My investigation shows that he was charged with stealing ponies, two having come into his possession in a trade in which he sold to some horse buyers without having changed the brands. It is only one more of the many examples of persecution of the poor red man by the grafting, cowardly, agency officials. There seems little or no legal remedy for it.\" David Flying Hawk later became Treaty Chairman of the South Dakota and Seven Camp Fires, pursuing the United States Government for broken treaty obligations.\n\nIn the Fall of 1928, McCreight (\"Cante Tanke\") was notified by Chief William Spotted Tail of the coming big gathering of western tribes for the last Sun Dance at Rosebud Agency, South Dakota. \"The notice was rather a command than an invitation.\" \"There was to be a \"fifty-years'\" celebration at the old Rosebud Agency where the ceremony of the Sun Dance, stopped by the Government forty-five years ago, was to be performed. All the old-time Indians were to be there.\" \n\nStepping out on the wobbly porch for a look around the old agency compound, a wrinkled old man in a slouch hat and white man's discarded coat stood leaning on a long staff. He had part of a loaf of stale bread enclosed in his left arm, held closely as if it was precious, and from it he tore off chunks with his right hand and stuffed them into his mouth and ravenously gulped them down. It was pathetic to see. Turning to the landlady for an explanation, she said the man was Chief Black Thunder, and she had given him the bread because she could not bear to see him suffering from hunger and cold. He was eighty-four and nearly blind from trachoma. In the brick building across the parade ground, a short distance from the eating place, stood the agency office, and nearby was the commissary and storehouses of the government, representing the nearly two billions of money and property belonging to the Indians, administered by the more than five thousand agents, employees, superintendents and welfare experts of the Indian Bureau, on salaries high and low, much of which was taken from the\nIndians' funds.\n\nIt was an amazing sight. Here encamped over a great saucer-like basin were twenty thousand Indians, with nearly as many more horses and dogs, covering an area of two to five miles. The tepees scattered singly and in villages over a whole region.\" \"Like the Red Man's formula for religious guidance, there were four days of the Sun Dance, four musicians to sing and drum, the music-dancing in sets of four, eight or sixteen; four big speeches, four dips in the councils-east, west, north and south.\n\nMcCreight delighted in seeing his old friends. \"In wandering about the wide spaces, several old time acquaintances were met, John Grass, Lone Feather, White Rabbit, Kills-Close-to-Lodge, Bear Dog, Frank Goings, American Horse, William Spotted Tail, president of the great meeting, Eta Waste, a Custer fight survivor who reminded us that he had once been at the writer's wigwam some thirty years ago.\" \"Here a short call on the agent and to inquire for Chief Flying Hawk who had failed to get to the Sun Dance. But to learn he had just left for a visit to Sitting Bull's grave at the northern agency.\"\n\nChief Flying Hawk was one of the five warrior cousins who sacrificed blood and flesh for Crazy Horse at the Last Sun Dance of 1877.\nThe Last Sun Dance of 1877 is significant in Lakota history as the Sun Dance held to honor Crazy Horse one year after the great victory at the Battle of the Little Big Horn, and to offer prayers for him in the trying times ahead. Crazy Horse attended the Sun Dance as the honored guest but did not take part in the dancing. Five warrior cousins sacrificed blood and flesh for Crazy Horse at the Last Sun Dance of 1887. The five warrior cousins were three brothers, Flying Hawk, Kicking Bear and Black Fox II (\"Young Black Fox\"), all sons of Chief Black Fox, also known as Great Kicking Bear, and two other cousins, Eagle Thunder and Walking Eagle. The five warrior cousins were braves and vigorous battle men of distinction.\n\nThe Sun Dance evolved into a War Dance to protest the white man invasion. \n\nA big hullabaloo came with the arrival of Vice President of the United States Charles Curtis and a long line of motor cars loaded with newspaper reporters, camera men and politicians. They interrupted the ceremonies, offending the performers so that they refused to continue for the gratification of the movie-men. They were many Indian votes short in the following election. This white man invasion disturbed things for the rest of the session, resulting in the Omahas and Pottowattomies joining in an \"exhibition\" war dance. Soon, the Utes, Cheyennes, Arapahos, Crows, Blackfeet, Pawnees and the rest all collected for a grand intertribal dance on the vacant section behind the show grounds. Qualified observers said there were ten thousand taking part in this mammoth demonstration. It was kept up until darkness shut it from view. It was a strange, an altogether unheard of thing to witness, thrilling to a degree to turn one's head and leave him atremble between joy and sorrow. It was marvelous to behold!\n\nRosebud is the district where bones turn to stone. Even in recent years, as when the father of Crazy Horse went to examine his son's tomb, the custom of Indians in old times, he sound the skeleton had petrified. He had placed the body in a secret cave so that white men could never know where his body was or contaminate it by so much a white man's touch. Past He Dog's Village; past one-room log cabins with broken and rusted farm implements strewn about, mostly with a tepee on the outside, ground uncultivated and dead; nothing green. Past a little church once painted white, cross on a low steeple, and set in a field of little white crosses, reminder of sad ending of babies and youth unable to survive in the environment denominated \"reservation\" by a \"charitable\" government. Even jack rabbits and birds were absent in this long desolation. But it was good enough for Indians by the white man's laws. Miles and miles, and finally a little creek bed was crossed to a service pump, and tiny store, it was Brennan, P.O., and just at the rear was the little monument at the head of the trench where the soldiers who murdered them, buried the frozen bodies of men, women and children to the number of two hundred and ninety, shot down with machine guns to let lie for two days in sub-zero storms (90 men 200 women and children). In one pile of bodies were two mothers whose babes were clasped close to the breast and within their heavy blanket shawls. When tearing the heap of frozen dead apart to be loaded into army wagons for transport to the big ditch, the two babes were found to be alive.\n\nThis was the 'revenge' of the troops for the wiping out of Custer's army at the Little Big Horn fourteen years before, but it was a discreditable show for the great United States Army to thus turn Hotchkiss machine guns on a crowd of starving and helpless and wholly harmless women and children! History has not, even to this late day, justified it. Many of the former acquaintances and friends of the writer were present, and some of them were killed. \n\nIt was a depressing sight for the writer who could in memory review the surrounded band in rags, shivering in cold and weak from irrepressible hunger over months of fruitless search for game to supply them what was denied them by crooked agents and grafting politicians, and had been trailed like wild animals by the relentless army, and finally driven, like cattle to the slaughter, at the unattractive fields we gazed upon. \n\nOf all McCreight's colorful accounts, none show his essence more than the Sun Dance at Rosebud Agency. He had been summoned to Rosebud by the great Chiefs. McCreight connected to the red man and disdained the white man's ignorance and utter destruction. He too one day would go to the Sand Hills to join the Ancient Ones. But not before he fulfilled all of his responsibilities as \"Cante Tanke\". A few months later, McCreight was nominated for U.S. Indian Commissioner of the Department of the Interior.\n\nIn April 1929, McCreight was nominated for U.S. Commissioner for Indian Affairs by Ray Lyman Wilbur, Secretary of the Department of the Interior. McCreight was considered a national figure in Indian lore and among the two or three men in the United States having the best knowledge of the American Indian and their affairs. McCreight received many endorsements including the National Council of American Indians of the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota and the Oglala Sioux Tribe representing \"eight thousand and 300 Indians.\" McCreight was not to receive the appointment and President Herbert Hoover chose Philadelphia financier Charles James Rhoads. McCreight noted: \"My education being red school house and hard knocks, did not measure up to Hoover's class. Rhoads is a fine fellow, Quaker, College-bred and rich. However, I value the endorsement of the Indians more than I would have the endorsement of Mr. Hoover, so there you have it.\"\n\nIn January 1929, just a year after the purchase of Cook Forest by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, McCreight proposed to the Bureau of Indian Affairs that Native Americans return to live in their historic natural home in Cook Forest along the Clarion River. The Seneca people of the Iroquois Confederacy once inhabited the great forest, and McCreight visioned man once again living in harmony with nature. It was also wonderful opportunity for McCreight's Lakota friends to regularly visit The Wigwam, and he proposed that Good Face, William Spotted Tail, John Sitting Bull and Flying Hawk, with their families, be invited to live in Cook Forest. McCreight explained his proposal to the U.S. Indian Field Service of the Department of the Interior in Wood, South Dakota: \n\nI wish you would see Good Face and talk with him about the Cook Forest Park. It is likely that he with his wife would very much enjoy coming to stay at least for a time in this beautiful place. He would be among the best people always and have all the rights and liberties that he would care for, and I am sure it would more than pay too. The Clarion River runs through the property, and he could have his bark canoe, go fishing, if permitted, and his duties would be to watch the fires and act as a guide and keep up the trails, etc. I think it would be arranged that he would have a salary, and his wife would get considerable by selling bed work out to the tourists. It was my idea that they could have not only a log house but tepee which they could move at will and there are many beautiful places along the river and in the forests, to camp in the summer.\n\nThe project was supported by Pennsylvania Governor John S. Fisher and the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Governor Fisher was an old friend and ally of McCreight, and together they labored for many years on the Cook Forest conservation project. Both were \"farm-boy\" bankers who grew up near the Great Shamokin Path of the Seneca, knew the forests and believed in conservation. It was not until Fisher was elected Governor that the Cook Forest Bill was finally passed and signed on April 14, 1927. Governor Fisher supported McCreight's proposal. \n\nThe Governor has written me that he is greatly interested in the use of the park for the home of the native Red Folks, and I think the plan can be worked out. My suggestion is that Good Face, and with William Spotted Tail with his family, and John Sitting Bull, and others who would suit with my old friend Flying Hawk who lives at Rockyford.\" McCreight, forever the dedicated public educator, saw yet another opportunity for \"Young America\". \"The Eastern people, especially the younger generation, are greatly interested in the Indians and to have a few of the old time names of whom they have read in history, it would add to their desire to know more of them. Anyway, the American People owe the Indians a lot and there is nothing that I know of that would be finer, than to make a nice home for them in this great natural forest where they once lived and which was theirs before the whites came and it is the one piece of land that is just the same as it was when the original red men lived there. Like all parks in the north, it would not be necessary for them to remain in it in the winter, likely they could go back and forth as it appealed to them. Of course there are plenty of Indians that would be glad to get the chance to come, but not all are desired by any means. I know Commissioner of Indian Affairs Charles H. Burke and will of course consult with him if the plan seems to be practical in other ways. I would like, first to know whether the plan would appeal to the Indians themselves, the ones I have in mind to have for it. Possibly you could see Spotted Tail too. Good Face has been here before. He told me he was at my house nearly thirty years ago. Now that you understand what I have in mind, there are others who might be just as desirable to those mentioned, in your country, and I wish you would think about it and write me again how you regard it, and with any suggestions you might have considering the plan.\" In February 1929, the Superintendent of the Pine Ridge Agency, Indian Field Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior contacted McCreight that \"two families have signified their willingness to go if proper arrangements can be made and a contract and bond furnished. \n\nMcCreight's vision of Lakota living and working at Cook Forest was endorsed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs and families were ready to move to the great forest along the Clarion River. However, when the stock market crashed on October 29, 1929, with the onset of the Great Depression, the Lakota project at Cook Forest was shelved.\n\nMcCreight was hit hard by the market crash of October 29, 1929, on the onset of the Great Depression and sold timber and land surrounding The Wigwam for income. He dedicated the rest of his life to public education about Native American culture.\nIn 1957 McCreight wrote, I \"have been getting old for several years, a day at a time.\" At the time he was 92 years old and would soon become ill. Ray Fadden, known as Mohawk leader Chief Aren Akweks, a frequent Wigwam visitor, wrote McCreight in 1958:\n\nBrother your message tells us that soon you will take the Sunset Trail where our ancient Fathers will welcome and greet you as one of themselves. It will make our hearts unhappy when you leave us. You will be remembered by the truths you have written in your many books and articles about the Indians and though your body may pass on your thoughts will continue to live, will speak for us. During your life on this Earth, you have done many good things and our hearts are with you. You are an Indian born again in a white body, sent here by our creator to tell the world today the true story of our people. When you leave Mother Mother Earth and the Ancient Ones will welcome you with outstretched arms. The prairies and forests will look golden and green to you and your moccasins will walk on smooth grasses. The sky will be blue and from the bark lodges you will see smoke rising into the sky. Your ears will hear the good music of singing and the tom toms and those you see will be smiling at you as you walk to greet them. Remember this, Brother, this is how it will be for you. Your brother, Aren Akweks.\n\nMcCreight died in 1958 at age of 93 and is buried in Morningside Cemetery, Du Bois, Pennsylvania. Alice B. Humphrey McCreight, his wife, died in 1965 at the age of 98, and is buried at the side of her husband, Major Israel McCreight. He is survived by many family members still in the DuBois area that lived in the Wigwam including his great great grandchildren Leo Brooks, Chris Brooks, Kenny Brooks, Ryan Brooks, Mallory Brooks Overholser and Emily Powers Francisco. His granddaughter Gretchen Swisher Powers and great granddaughter Martha Brooks are currently laid to rest on Juniata Street in DuBois and his grandson Craig Powers resides in the Deep South in Mississippi.\n"}
{"id": "408339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408339", "title": "Malik", "text": "Malik\n\nMalik, Melik, Malka, Malek, Malick, or Melekh (; ; ) is \nthe Semitic term translating to \"king\", recorded in East Semitic and later Northwest Semitic (e.g. Aramaic, Canaanite, Hebrew) and Arabic.\n\nAlthough the early forms of the name were to be found among the Pre-Arab and Pre-Islamic Semites of The Levant, Canaan, and Mesopotamia, it has since been adopted in various other, mainly but not exclusively Islamized or Arabized non-Semitic Asian languages for their ruling princes and to render kings elsewhere. It is also sometimes used in derived meanings.\n\nThe female version of Malik is Malikah () (or its various spellings such as Malekeh or Melike), meaning \"queen\".\n\nThe name Malik was originally found among various pre-Arab and non-Muslim Semitic peoples such as the indigenous ethnic Assyrians of Iraq, Amorites, Jews, Arameans, Mandeans, Syriacs, and pre-Islamic Arabs. It has since been spread among various predominantly Muslim and non-Semitic peoples in Central Asia, the Middle East, and South Asia. Malik is also an angel in the Quran that never smiled since the day the hellfire was created.\n\nThe last name \"Malik\" or \"Malík\" may also be of West Slavic origin, most predominantly Polish, Czech, and Slovakian, as it comes from a Polish word \"mały\" meaning \"small\". It's comparable with surnames such as \"Malicki\", \"Maliczek\", or \"Malikowski\".\n\nThe last name \"Malik\" also refers to jaat or people belonging to the Punjab and Haryana region in Pakistan and India\n\nThe earliest form of the name \"Maloka\" was used to denote a prince or chieftain in the East Semitic Akkadian language of the Mesopotamian states of Akkad, Assyria, Babylonia and Chaldea. The Northwest Semitic \"mlk\" was the title of the rulers of the primarily Amorite, Sutean, Canaanite, Phoenician and Aramean city-states of the Levant and Canaan from the Late Bronze Age.\nEventual derivatives include the Aramaic, Neo-Assyrian, Mandic and Arabic forms: \"Malik\", \"Malek\", \"Mallick\", \"Malkh\"a, \"Malka\", \"Malkai\" and the Hebrew form \"Melek\".\n\n\"Moloch\" has been traditionally interpreted the epithet of a god, known as \"the king\" like Baal was an epithet \"the master\" and Adon an epithet \"the lord\", but in the case of Moloch purposely mispronounced as \"Molek\" instead of \"Melek\" using the vowels of Hebrew \"bosheth\" \"shame\".\n\nMalik is also an unrelated Greenlandic Inuit name meaning \"wave.\"\n\nPrimarily a \"malik\" is the ruling monarch of a kingdom, called \"mamlaka\", title used by the former slaves aka Mamluks (مملوك) royal dynasty of Egypt; that term is however also used in a broader sense, like realm, for rulers with another, generally lower titles, as in Sahib al-Mamlaka. Malik is also used for tribal leaders, e.g. among the Pashtuns.\n\nSome Arab kingdoms are presently ruled by a Malik:\n\nOther historic realms under a Malik include:\n\nThe title Malik has also been used in languages which adopted Arabic loanwords (mainly, not exclusively, in Muslim cultures), for various princely or lower ranks and functions.\n\nThe word Malik is sometimes used in Arabic to render roughly equivalent titles of foreign rulers, for instance the chronicler Baha al-Din Ibn Shaddad refers to King Richard I of England as \"Malik al-Inkitar\".\n\n\n\nThe following components are frequently part of titles, notably in Persian (also used elsewhere, e.g. in India's Moghol tradition):\n\nIn the great Indian Muslim salute state of Hyderabad, a first rank- vassal of the Mughal padshah (emperor) imitating his lofty Persian court protocol, the word Molk became on itself one of the titles used for ennobled Muslim retainers of the ruling Nizam's court, in fact the third in rank, only below Jah (the highest) and Umara, but above Daula, Jang, Nawab, Khan Bahadur and Khan; for the Nizam's Hindu retainers different titles were used, the equivalent of Molk being Vant.\n\nThe Arabic term came to be adopted as a term for \"tribal chieftain\" in Afghanistan and the tribal areas of Pakistan, especially among Pashtuns, for a tribal leader or a chieftain. In tribal Pashtun society the Maliks serve as \"de facto\" arbiters in local conflicts, interlocutors in state policy-making, tax-collectors, heads of village and town councils and delegates to provincial and national \"jirgas\" as well as to Parliament.\nMalik is a common surname among every Pashtun family leader to solve the problem at the time of conflict with another family.\n\nIn the Punjab, \"Malik\", literally meaning \"King\" is a title used by some well-reputed specific Punjabi aristocrat families with special lineage, more formally known as Zamindars. The Malik clan is also associated with different aspects throughout different generations and periods of history, It is believed that they originated as a clan of warriors who later on settled as wealthy landlords. The Malik clan holds significant historical importance & are considered as royalty among the Punjabi caste system. They are well known for their way of life as well as their martial traditions and customs. In the Hierarchy of Malik Clan the Malik-Awan or Awan tribe ranks supreme due to their tribal status.The Awan-Malik tribe resides predominantly in northern, central, and western parts of Pakistani Punjab. As per historical interpretations the Awan tribe traces its bloodline to a well known Arab Conqueror Sayyed Qutb Shah ibn Ya‘lā, al-Gilani, Who is also a recognised descendant of the fourth caliph Ali ibn Abi Talib.\n\nMalik or Malek is a common element in first and family names, usually without any aristocratic meaning, However Malik is a large community and a well known clan of the Awan tribe in Pakistan with Arab heritage.\n\nSome Maliks (Urdu: ملک) are also a clan of Hindu Rajput Sikh Rajput and Muslim Rajput, Hindu Jaat, Muslim Jatt and a few Sikh Jatt, found primarily in Haryana and Pakistan and parts of Punjab (There also exist Hindu Punjabi Maliks that are part of the Khukhrain or Arora communities but they are entirely different from Jats). The Muslim Malik Jat community is settled all over Pakistan and the Sikh, mainly in the Punjab province. The Malik are also known as the Ghatwala. They are descended from Mann Jats. The Gathwala are now designating themselves as Maliks. Due to popularity of the Malik title many low-tier Punjabi sub-casts such as Gujarati Punjabis, Teli Punjabis and many others have adapted the title to gain acceptance in the Punjabi caste system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11016235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11016235", "title": "Maras Taun", "text": "Maras Taun\n\nMaras Taun is a thanksgiving festival and harvest festival celebrated by Malays in Belitung Island and its surrounding smaller islands.\n\n\"Maras\" in Malay Belitung dialect means \"cutting\" and \"taun\" means \"year.\" Maras Taun occurs once a year after the harvest of rice from dry-field paddy fields (padi ladang or Oryza montana).\n\nFor the Mendanau islanders, rice is the main foodstuff. Rice trading connects people from island to island. The festival is celebrated by fishermen in addition to farmers. The farmers celebrate their harvest; the fishermen celebrate their successful fish hauling.\n\nThe festival is opened with a farmer dance. They sing a Maras Taun song together to accompany the dance. After the dance ends, a village chief (a Muslim leader) appears and leads the people in prayer. The chief burns a piece of agarwood which causes a fragrant smell; then, he says the prayers and blesses two pieces of sacred leaves called \"daun hati-hati\" or \"daun kesalan\", a variety of medicinal mint also known as Asian oregano. Afterward, the sacred leaves are given to the people. The islanders spread the leaves around their homes and boats because they believe that the sacred leaves bring luck.\n\nBefore the harvest festival, people gather pounded rice that will be cooked as lepat. Lepat is a variety of steamed cake made from red rice, which is filled with a piece of fish or meat and wrapped with young coconut leaves. Hundreds of lepats will be distributed to the villagers at the end of the festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "7816804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7816804", "title": "Mark A. R. Kleiman", "text": "Mark A. R. Kleiman\n\nMark Albert Robert Kleiman (born May 18, 1951) is an American professor, author, and blogger who deals with issues of drug and criminal justice policy. A professor of public policy at New York University, in 2015, Kleiman became the director of the Crime and Justice Program at NYU's Marron Institute of Urban Management. Kleiman is an expert in the field of crime and drug policy and is the author of several books in the field. Kleiman advises local, state, national, and international governmental bodies on crime control and drug policy. He is also the chairman of BOTEC Analysis Corporation, a consultancy that focuses on crime, drug policy, and urban development.\n\nBorn in Phoenix to a Jewish family, Kleiman grew up in Baltimore and attended the Baltimore public schools. He is a graduate of Haverford College and received a master's degree in public policy from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University in 1977 and a Ph.D. in public policy, also from Harvard, in 1985.\n\nKleiman served for 18 years as a professor of public policy at the UCLA Luskin School of Public Affairs. He has also been a visiting professor at Harvard Law School and the University of Virginia Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy (2012), and the first Thomas C. Schelling Visiting Professor at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy (2006-2007).\n\nHe is now an \"emeritus\" professor at UCLA, a professor of public policy at New York University, and an adjunct scholar at the Center for American Progress.\n\nKleiman is also a member of the Committee on Law and Justice of the United States National Research Council and editor of the \"Journal of Drug Policy Analysis\".\n\nIn 1989, Kleiman wrote \"Marijuana: Costs of Abuse, Costs of Control\", in which he attacked the conventional reasoning of national drug enforcement and the logic behind interpretations of the economics of drug markets. The book included a critique of the \"Just Say No\" rhetoric of the Reagan and Bush administrations, and suggested an alternative policy of \"grudging toleration\" of drug use.\n\nIn 1993, Kleiman wrote \"Against Excess: Drug Policy for Results\", where, he argued that drug enforcement agencies should view arrest and incarceration of offenders as a loss not a win. He maintained that by concentrating resources on ensuring certain arrest for the worst offenders rather than a small risk of arrest for all, agencies could create environments with less drug abuse, less incarceration, and safer streets.\n\nIn 2010, Kleiman wrote \"When Brute Force Fails: How to Have Less Crime and Less Punishment\".\n\nIn 2011, Kleiman co-wrote \"Drugs and Drug Policy: What Everyone Needs to Know\" with Jonathan Caulkins and Angela Hawken. That year, Kleiman also co-edited \"Encyclopedia of Drug Policy\" with James Hawdon.\n\nKleiman's book \"Marijuana Legalization: What Everyone Needs to Know\" co-written with Jonathan Caulkins, Angela Hawken, and Beau Kilmer, was published in 2012. The book is written in question-and-answer format, covering over 100 questions relating to marijuana.\n\nIn a \"Huffington Post\" interview, Kleiman, the \"Pot Czar\" of Washington state, said he was concerned that the National Cannabis Industry Association would favor profits over public health. He also said that it could become a predatory body like the lobbying arms of the tobacco and alcohol industries. Kleiman said: \"The fact that the National Cannabis Industry Association has hired itself a K Street suit [lobbyist] is not a good sign.\"\n\nKleiman is the organizer of a group blog, \"The Reality-Based Community\". His writing has also appeared on CNN, \"The American Prospect\", \"Foreign Affairs\", and \"Washington Monthly\".\n\nKleiman was a legislative aide to Congressman Les Aspin (1974-1975) and a special assistant to Polaroid CEO Edwin Land (1975-1976). From 1977 to 1979, he was deputy director for management and director of program analysis for the Office of Management and Budget of the city of Boston. From 1979 to 1983, Kleiman worked for the Office of Policy and Management Analysis in the Criminal Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, and in 1982-1983 he was its director and a member of the National Organized Crime Planning Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "14151735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14151735", "title": "Melong", "text": "Melong\n\nMelong is a Tibetan term that means \"mirror\", \"looking glass\". The melong is a polyvalent symbol, divine attribute, and quality of the enlightened mindstream or bodhicitta.\n\nMirror (Sanskr. ādarśa, darpaṇa; Tib. me long)\n\nThe mirror is an ancient symbol throughout Indian religions. In Indian iconography it may be understood as a symbol for clarity, wholesome or complete perception and 'primordial purity' (Tibetan: \"ka dag\") of the mindstream or consciousness. The mirror is often depicted as an accoutrement of the hagiographical signification of fully realised Mahasiddha, Dzogchenpa and Mahamudra sadhaka. The mirror may be understood as a quality of the mindstream that denotes perceiving experience as it is without obscuration formed by \"klesha\", etc.\n\nThe mirror may be engaged in the advanced Tantric sadhana of the \"Gyulu\". As the mirror, so the mind. The mirror \"as\" the mind, following Yogacara, reflects quality and form, though is not directly altered and is 'beyond all attributes and form' (Sanskrit: nirguna).\n\nSawyer (1998: unpaginated) in an essay to accompany curatorial notes for an exhibition and a particular c.19th century xylograph on silk entitled 'Offerings to Mahakala' depicting an 'array of ritual offerings' to the Dharmapala Mahakala, conveys the importance of 'mirror' iconography to Dharmakaya:\n\nThe looking glass/mirror (T. me-long, Skt. adarsa), which represents the dharmakaya or Truth Body, having the aspects of purity (a mirror is clear of pollution) and wisdom (a mirror reflects all phenomena without distinction).\nThe Dhyani Buddha, Akshobhya, is the embodiment of 'mirror knowledge' (Sanskrit: Ādarśa-jñāna; refer Panchajnana).\n\nThe mirror motif is employed pervasively throughout Buddhist literature but it is very important to traditions of Dzoghcen. A number of texts use the mirror motif in their title:\n\n\"The Mirror\" is the title of the newspaper of the International Dzogchen Community established by Namkhai Norbu.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13822446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13822446", "title": "Polish population transfers (1944–1946)", "text": "Polish population transfers (1944–1946)\n\nThe Polish population transfers in 1944–46 from the eastern half of prewar Poland (also known as the expulsions of Poles from the Kresy macroregion), refer to the forced migrations of Poles toward the end – and in the aftermath – of World War II. These were the result of Soviet Union policy that was ratified by its Allies. Similarly the Soviet Union had enforced policy between 1939 and 1941, that targeted and expelled ethnic Poles residing in the Soviet zone of occupation following the Nazi-Soviet invasion of Poland. The second wave of expulsions resulted from the retaking of Poland by the Red Army during the Soviet counter-offensive. It took over territory for its republic of Ukraine, a shift that was ratified at the end of World War II by the Soviet Union's then Allies of the West.\n\nThe postwar population transfers, targeting Polish nationals, were part of an official Soviet policy that affected more than one million Polish citizens, who were removed in stages from the Polish areas annexed by the Soviet Union. After the war, following Soviet demands laid out during the Tehran Conference of 1943, the Kresy macroregion was formally incorporated into the Ukrainian, Belarusian and Lithuanian Republics of the Soviet Union. This was agreed at the Potsdam Conference of Allies in 1945, to which the acting Government of the Republic of Poland in exile was not invited.\n\nThe ethnic displacement of Poles (and also of ethnic Germans, covered in a separate article) was agreed to by the Allied leaders: Winston Churchill of the United Kingdom, Franklin D. Roosevelt of the U.S., and Joseph Stalin of the USSR, during the conferences at both Tehran and Yalta. The Polish transfers were among the largest of several post-war expulsions in Central and Eastern Europe, which displaced a total of about twenty million people.\n\nAccording to official data, during the state-controlled expulsion between 1945 and 1946, roughly 1,167,000 Poles left the westernmost republics of the Soviet Union, less than 50% of those who registered for population transfer. Another major ethnic Polish transfer took place after Stalin's death, in 19551959.\n\nThe process is variously known as expulsion, deportation, depatriation, or repatriation, depending on the context and the source. The term \"repatriation\", used officially in both communist-controlled Poland and the USSR, was a deliberate distortion, as deported peoples were leaving their homeland rather than returning to it. It is also sometimes referred to as the 'first repatriation' action, in contrast with the 'second repatriation' of 19551959. In a wider context, it is sometimes described as a culmination of a process of \"de-Polonization\" of the areas during and after the world war. The process was planned and carried out by the communist regimes of the USSR and of post-war Poland. Many of the repatriated Poles were settled in formerly German eastern provinces; after 1945, these were referred to as the \"Recovered Territories\" of the People's Republic of Poland.\n\nThe history of ethnic Polish settlement in what is now Ukraine and Belarus dates to 1030–31. More Poles migrated to this area after the Union of Lublin in 1569, when most of the territory became part of the newly established Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. From 1657 to 1793, some 80 Roman Catholic churches and monasteries were built in Volhynia alone. The expansion of Catholicism in Lemkivshchyna, Chełm Land, Podlaskie, Brześć land, Galicia, Volhynia and Right bank Ukraine was accompanied by the process of gradual Polonization of the eastern lands. Social and ethnic conflicts arose regarding the differences in religious practices between the Roman Catholic and the Eastern Orthodox adherents during the Union of Brest in 1595-96, when the Metropolitan of Kiev-Halych broke relations with the Eastern Orthodox Church and accepted the authority of the Roman Catholic Pope and Vatican.\n\nThe partitions of Poland, toward the end of the 18th century, resulted in the expulsions of ethnic Poles from their homes in the east for the first time in the history of the nation. Some 80,000 Poles were escorted to Siberia by the Russian imperial army in 1864 in the single largest deportation action undertaken within the Russian Partition. \"Books were burned; churches destroyed; priests murdered;\" wrote Norman Davies. Meanwhile, Ukrainians were officially considered \"part of the Russian people\".\n\nThe Russian Revolution of 1917 and the Russian Civil War of 1917-1922 brought an end to the Russian Empire. According to Ukrainian sources from the Cold War period, during the Bolshevik revolution of 1917 the Polish population of Kiev was 42,800. In July 1917, when relations between the Ukrainian People's Republic (UNR) and Russia became strained, the Polish Democratic Council of Kiev supported the Ukrainian side in its conflict with Petrograd. Throughout the existence of UNR (1917–21), there was a separate ministry for Polish affairs, headed by M. Mickiewycz; it was set up by the Ukrainian side in November 1917. In that entire period, some 1,300 Polish-language schools were operating in Galicia, with 1,800 teachers and 84,000 students. In the region of Podolia in 1917, there were 290 Polish schools.\n\nBeginning in 1920, the Bolshevik and nationalist terror campaigns of the new war triggered the flight of Poles and Jews from Soviet Russia to newly sovereign Poland. In 1922 Bolshevik Russian Red Army, with their Bolshevik allies in Ukraine overwhelmed the government of the Ukrainian People's Republic, including the annexed Ukrainian territories into the Soviet Union. In that year, 120,000 Poles stranded in the east were expelled to the west and the Second Polish Republic. The Soviet census of 1926 recorded ethnic Poles as being of Russian or Ukrainian ethnicity, reducing their apparent numbers in Ukraine.\n\nIn the autumn of 1935, Stalin ordered a new wave of mass deportations of Poles from the western republics of the Soviet Union. This was also the time of his purges of different classes of peoples, many of whom were killed. Poles were expelled from the border regions in order to resettle the area with ethnic Russians and Ukrainians, but Stalin had them deported to the far reaches of Siberia and Central Asia. In 1935 alone 1,500 families were deported to Siberia from the Soviet Ukraine. In 1936, 5,000 Polish families were deported to Kazakhstan. The deportations were accompanied by the gradual elimination of Polish cultural institutions. Polish-language newspapers were closed, as were Polish-language classes throughout Ukraine.\n\nSoon after the wave of deportations, the Soviet NKVD orchestrated the Genocide of Poles in the Soviet Union. The Polish population in the USSR had officially dropped by 165,000 in that period according to official Soviet census of 1937–38; Polish losses in the Ukrainian SSR were about 30 percent.\n\nAmidst several border conflicts, Poland re-emerged as a sovereign state following a century of foreign partitions. The Polish-Ukrainian alliance was unsuccessful, and the Polish-Soviet war continued until the Treaty of Riga was signed in 1921. The Soviet Union did not officially exist before 31 December 1922. The disputed territories were split in Riga between the Second Polish Republic and the Soviet Union representing Ukrainian SSR (part of the Soviet Union after 1923). In the following few years in Kresy, the lands assigned to sovereign Poland, some 8,265 Polish farmers were resettled with help from the government. The overall number of settlers in the east was negligible as compared to the region's long-term residents. For instance in the Volhynian Voivodeship (1,437,569 inhabitants in 1921), the number of settlers did not exceed 15,000 people (3,128 refugees from Bolshevist Russia, roughly 7,000 members of local administration, and 2,600 military settlers). Approximately 4 percent of the newly arrived settlers lived on land granted to them. The majority either rented their land to local farmers, or moved to the cities.\n\nTensions between the Ukrainian minority in Poland and the Polish government escalated. On 12 July 1930, activists of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN), helped by the UVO, began the so-called \"sabotage action\", during which Polish estates were burned, and roads, rail lines and telephone connections were destroyed. The OUN used terrorism and sabotage in order to force the Polish government into actions that would cause a loss of support for the more moderate Ukrainian politicians ready to negotiate with the Polish state. OUN directed its violence not only against the Poles, but also against Jews and other Ukrainians who wished for a peaceful resolution to the Polish–Ukrainian conflict.<ref name=\"Hann/Magocsi\">\"Galicia\", By C. M. Hann and Paul R. Magocsi, page 148</ref>\n\nThe 1939 Soviet invasion of Poland during World War II was subsequently accompanied by the Soviets forcibly deporting hundreds of thousands of Polish citizens to distant parts of the Soviet Union: Siberia and Central Asia. Five years later, for the first time, the Supreme Soviet formally acknowledged that the Polish nationals expelled after the Soviet invasion were not Soviet citizens, but foreign subjects. Two decrees were signed on 22 June and 16 August 1944 to facilitate the release of Polish nationals from captivity.\n\nAfter the signing of the secret Molotov-Ribbentrop pact in 1939 between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union, Germany invaded Western Poland. Two weeks later, the Soviet Union invaded eastern Poland. As a result, Poland was divided between the Germans and the Soviets (see Polish areas annexed by the Soviet Union). With the annexation of the Kresy in 1939, modern-day Western Ukraine was annexed to Soviet Ukraine, and Western Belarus to Soviet Belorussia, respectively. Spreading terror throughout the region, the Soviet secret police (NKVD) accompanying the Red Army murdered Polish prisoners of war. From 1939 to 1941 the Soviets also forcibly deported specific social groups deemed \"untrustworthy\" to forced labor facilities in Kazakhstan and Siberia. Many children, elderly and sick died during the journeys in cargo trains which lasted weeks. Whereas the Polish government-in-exile put the number of deported Polish citizens at 1,500,000 and some Polish estimates reached 1,600,000 to 1,800,000 persons, historians consider these evaluations as exaggerated. Alexander Guryanov calculated that 309,000 up to 312,000 Poles were deported from February 1940 to June 1941. According to N.S. Lebedeva the deportations involved about 250,000 persons. The most conservative Polish counts based on Soviet documents and published by the Main Commission to Investigate Crimes Against the Polish Nation in 1997 amounted to a grand total of 320,000 persons deported. Sociologist Tadeusz Piotrowski argues that various other smaller deportations, prisoners of war and political prisoners should be added for a grand total of 400,000 to 500,000 deported.\n\nBy 1944, the population of ethnic Poles in Western Ukraine was 1,182,100. The Polish government in exile in London affirmed its position of retaining the 1939 borders. Nikita Khrushchev, however, approached Stalin personally to keep the territories gained through the illegal and secret Molotov-Ribbentrop pact under continued Soviet occupation.\n\nThe document regarding the resettlement of Poles from the Ukrainian and Belorussian SSRs to Poland was signed 9 September 1944 in Lublin by Khrushchev and the head of the Polish Committee of National Liberation Edward Osóbka-Morawski (the corresponding document with the Lithuanian SSR was signed on 22 September). The document specified who was eligible for the resettlement (it primarily applied to all Poles and Jews who were citizens of the Second Polish Republic before 17 September 1939, and their families), what property they could take with them, and what aid they would receive from the corresponding governments. The resettlement was divided into two phases: first, the eligible citizens were registered as wishing to be resettled; second, their request was to be reviewed and approved by the corresponding governments. About 750,000 Poles and Jews from the western regions of Ukraine were deported, as well as about 200,000 each from western Belarus and from Lithuanian SSR each. The deportations continued until August 1, 1946.\n\nToward the end of World War II, tensions between the Polish AK and Ukrainians escalated into the Massacres of Poles in Volhynia, led by the nationalist Ukrainian groups including the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN) and the Ukrainian Insurgent Army. Although the Soviet government was trying to eradicate these organizations, it did little to support the Polish minority; and instead encouraged population transfer. The haste at which repatriation was done was such that the Polish leader Bolesław Bierut was forced to intercede and approach Stalin to slow down the deportation, as the post-war Polish government was overwhelmed by the sudden great number of refugees needing aid.\n\nThe Poles in southern Kresy (now Western Ukraine) were given the option of resettlement in Siberia or Poland, and most chose Poland.\n\nThe Polish government-in-exile in London directed their organizations (see Polish Secret State) in Lwów and other major centers in Eastern Poland to sit fast and not evacuate, promising that during peaceful discussions they would be able to keep Lwów within Poland. In response, Khrushchev introduced a different approach to dealing with this \"Polish problem\". Until this time, Polish children could be educated in Polish, according to the curriculum of pre-war Poland. Overnight this allowance was discontinued, and all Polish schools were required to teach the Soviet Ukrainian curriculum, with classes to be held only in Ukrainian and Russian. All males were told to prepare for mobilization into labor brigades within the Red Army. These actions were introduced specifically to encourage Polish emigration from Ukraine to Poland.\n\nStefania Kubrynowycz, director of the middle school in Rokotyniv, stated:\n\nThe Russians hate the Poles. [Soviet] Soldiers get changed in to the uniforms of bandits (Banderites) and wander into Polish villages where they suggest that they move to Poland. Those that do not want to move are threatened with death. If it were not for England and America, the Soviets would eat the Poles\".\n\nIn January 1945, the NKVD arrested 772 Poles in Lviv (where, according to Soviet sources, on October 1, 1944, Poles represented 66.7% of population), among them 14 professors, 6 doctors, 2 engineers, 3 artists, and 5 Catholic priests. The Polish community was outraged about the arrests. The Polish underground press in Lviv characterized these acts as attempts to hasten the deportation of Poles from their city. Those arrested were released after they signed papers agreeing to emigrate to Poland. It is difficult to establish the exact number of Poles expelled from Lviv, but it was estimated as between 100,000 and 140,000.\n\nIn contrast to actions in the Ukrainian SSR, the communist officials in Belorussian SSR did not actively support deportation of Poles. Belorussian officials made it difficult for Polish activists to communicate with \"tuteishians\" – people who were undecided as to whether they considered themselves Polish or Belarusian. Much of the rural population, who usually had no official documents of identity, were denied the \"right\" of repatriation on the basis that they did not have documents stating they were Polish citizens. In what was described as the \"fight for the people\", Polish officials attempted to get as many people repatriated as possible, while the Belorussian officials tried to retain them, particularly the peasants, while deporting most of the Polish intelligentsia. It is estimated that about 150,000 to 250,000 people were deported from Belarus. Similar numbers were registered as Poles but forced by the Belorussian officials to remain in Belarus. A similar number were denied registration as Poles in the Belorussian SSR.\n\nIn response, Poland followed a similar process in regards to the Belarusian population of the territory of the Białystok Voivodeship, which was partially retained by Poland after World War II. It sought to retain some of the Belarusian people.\n\nPart of the difference in treatment between the two areas arose from religious identity. In Ukraine, most Ukrainian Catholics were members of the powerful Ukrainian Uniate church, which was often in conflict with the Polish Roman Catholics. But in Belarus, most Belarusian Catholics were members of the Latin rite and were not in religious conflict with Poles. Some educated Belarusian Catholics who could speak Polish identified as \"Poles\", and they were deported from Stalin's regime to Poland, where religious freedom was somewhat more open. But Belarusian authorities did not want a mass exodus of their population to Poland and tried to retain practicing Catholics. Latin Rite Catholicism has retained a significant presence in Belarus, where about 10% of the people identify as Catholic in the early 21st century.\n\nThe expulsion of ethnic Poles from Lithuania saw numerous delays. Local Polish clergy were active in agitating against leaving, and the underground press called those who had registered for repatriation \"traitors\". Many ethnic Poles hoped that postwar Peace Conference would assign Vilnius region to Poland. After these hopes vanished, the number of people wanting to leave gradually increased, and they signed papers for the People's Republic of Poland State Repatriation Office representatives.\n\nOfficial attitudes in the Lithuanian SSR were similar to those of the Belarusian officials. The Lithuanian communist party was dominated by a nationalist faction which supported the removal of the Polish intelligentsia, particularly from the highly disputed Vilnius region. The city of Vilnius was considered a historical capital of Lithuania; however, in the early 20th century its population was around 60% Polish, and 30% Jewish, with only about 2–3% self-declared Lithuanians. The government considered the rural Polish population important to the agricultural economy, and believed those people would be relatively amenable to assimilation policies (Lithuanization).\n\nBut the government encouraged expulsion of Poles from Vilnius, and facilitated it. The result was a rapid depolonization and Lithuanization of the city (80% of the Polish population was removed). Furthermore, Lithuanian ideology declared that many of the persons who identified as Polish were in fact \"polonized Lithuanians\". The rural population was denied the right to leave Lithuania, due to their lack of official pre-war documentation of Polish citizenship. Contrary to the government's agreement with Poland, many individuals were threatened with having to settle outstanding debts or with arrest if they chose repatriation. Soviet authorities persecuted individuals connected to the Polish resistance (Armia Krajowa and Polish Underground State). In the end, about 50% of the 400,000 people registered for relocation were allowed to leave. Political scientist Dovilė Budrytė estimated that about 150,000 people left for Poland.\n\n"}
{"id": "33638483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33638483", "title": "Rassd News Network", "text": "Rassd News Network\n\nRassd News Network, also known by its initials of RNN (Arabic: شبكة رصد الاخبارية), is an alternative media network based in Cairo, Egypt. RNN was launched as a Facebook-based news source launched on January 25, 2011. It quickly advanced to become a primary contributor of Egyptian revolution-related news that year. Applying the motto \"From the people to the people,\" the citizen journalists who created RNN have since added a Twitter feed and launched an independent website dedicated to short news stories favored by an online audience.\n\nRNN is an organized citizen news network with four working committees; one for editing the news, another to support the correspondents covering Egypt, a third for managing the multimedia feeds and a fourth for staff functions such as development, training and public relations. RNN's Arabic name, Rassd, is an acronym that stands for Rakeb (observe), Sawwer (record) and Dawwen (blog). RNN created a Ustream channel on January 27, 2011, and a YouTube account a month later.\n\nThe success of RNN and its new social media model is evidenced in its recent local network expansion into Libya, Morocco, Syria, Jerusalem and Turkey. Even so, one media scholar in the US (commenting in 2011) called the accuracy of RNN's reporting \"fairly mediocre\".\n\nRNN has endured closures of their Facebook profile and YouTube account as part of the attacks from private media, attempting to thwart their work and influence their content.\n\nRNN has been a global source of Egyptian revolution-related news since its launch. During the early days of the citizen uprisings across the Middle East, major networks such as BBC, Reuters, Al Jazeera and Al Arabiya used some of Rassd's news and photos, and followed the network on Twitter. Three days after the online portal went live it was streaming video to MSNBC through its Facebook page. Then on February 5, 2011, Louisville's NBC-affiliate cited RNN, Cairo when it reported that President Hosni Mubarak had stepped down as head of Egypt's ruling party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1437724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1437724", "title": "Rioplatense Spanish", "text": "Rioplatense Spanish\n\nRioplatense Spanish (; , locally \"castellano rioplatense\") is a dialect of the Spanish language spoken mainly in the areas in and around the Río de la Plata Basin of Argentina and Uruguay. It is also referred to as \"River Plate Spanish\" or \"Argentine Spanish\". Being the most prominent dialect to employ \"voseo\" in both speech and writing, many features of Rioplatense are also shared with the varieties spoken in Eastern Bolivia, Chile, and Peru. This dialect is often spoken with an intonation resembling that of the Neapolitan language of Southern Italy, but there are exceptions. The usual word employed to name the Spanish language in this region is \"castellano\" () and seldom \"español\" (). See names given to the Spanish language.\n\nDue to the fact that Rioplatense is merely a peculiar dialect and not a language, there are no credible figures for a total number of speakers. Generally, native speakers of Spanish who were raised in Uruguay or the majority of Argentina are assumed to speak Rioplatense (at least informally) just as, for instance, Americans would be assumed to speak American English, rather than any other variety of English. The total population of these areas would amount to some 25–30 million, depending on the definition and expanse.\n\nRioplatense is mainly based in the cities of Buenos Aires, Rosario, Santa Fe, La Plata, Mar del Plata and Bahía Blanca in Argentina, and Montevideo in Uruguay, the most populated cities in the dialectal area, along with their respective suburbs and the areas in between. This regional form of Spanish is also found in other areas, not geographically close but culturally influenced by those population centers (e.g., in parts of Paraguay and in all of Patagonia). Rioplatense is the standard in audiovisual media in Argentina and Uruguay. To the north, and northeast exists the hybrid Riverense Portuñol.\n\nThe Spaniards brought their language to the area during the Spanish colonization in the region. Originally part of the Viceroyalty of Peru, the Río de la Plata basin had its status lifted to Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata in 1776.\n\nUntil the massive immigration to the region started in the 1870s, the language of the Río de la Plata had virtually no influence from other languages and varied mainly by localisms. Argentines and Uruguayans often state that their populations, like those of the United States and Canada, comprise people of relatively recent European descent, the largest immigrant groups coming from Spain and Italy.\n\nSeveral languages, and especially Italian, influenced the \"criollo\" Spanish of the time, because of the diversity of settlers and immigrants to Argentina and Uruguay:\n\nEuropean settlement decimated Native American populations before 1810, and also during the expansion into Patagonia (after 1870). However, the interaction between Spanish and several of the native languages has left visible traces. Words from Guarani, Quechua and others were incorporated into the local form of Spanish.\n\nSome words of Amerindian origin commonly used in Rioplatense Spanish are:\n\n\"pochoclo\" (pop + choclo, from choqllo, corn) -- popcorn in Argentina \n\nDifferences between dialects of Spanish are numerous; about 9,000 Rioplatense words are not used or, in many cases, even understood elsewhere. These include many terms from the basic vocabulary, such as words for fruits, garments, foodstuffs, car parts, etc., as well as local slang.\n\nRioplatense vocabularies continue to diverge from Peninsular Spanish: Rioplatense Spanish tends to borrow (or calque) technical words from American English, while Peninsular Spanish tends to borrow or calque them from British English or from French. \n\nRioplatense Spanish distinguishes itself from other dialects of Spanish by the pronunciation of certain consonants.\n\n\nAspiration of , together with loss of final and some common instances of diphthong simplification, tend to produce a noticeable simplification of the syllable structure, giving Rioplatense informal speech a distinct fluid consonant-vowel-consonant-vowel rhythm: \n\nPreliminary research has shown that Rioplatense Spanish, and particularly the speech of the city of Buenos Aires, has intonation patterns that resemble those of Italian dialects. This correlates well with immigration patterns. Argentina has received huge numbers of Italian settlers since the 19th century.\n\nAccording to a study conducted by National Scientific and Technical Research Council of Argentina Buenos Aires and Rosario residents speak with an intonation most closely resembling Neapolitan. The researchers note this as a relatively recent phenomenon, starting in the beginning of the 20th century with the main wave of Southern Italian immigration. Before that, the \"porteño\" accent was more similar to that of Spain, especially Andalusia.\n\nOne of the features of the Argentine and Uruguayan speaking style is the voseo: the usage of the pronoun \"vos\" for the second person singular, instead of \"tú\". In other Spanish-speaking regions where \"voseo\" is used, such as in Chile and Colombia, the use of voseo has at times been considered a nonstandard lower speaking style; whereas in Argentina and Uruguay it is standard.\n\nThe second person plural pronoun, which is \"vosotros\" in Spain, is replaced with \"ustedes\" in Rioplatense, as in most other Latin American dialects. While \"usted\" is the formal second person singular pronoun, its plural \"ustedes\" has a neutral connotation and can be used to address friends and acquaintances as well as in more formal occasions (see T-V distinction). \"Ustedes\" takes a grammatically third- person plural verb.\n\nAs an example, see the conjugation table for the verb \"amar\" (to love) in the present tense, indicative mode:\n\nAlthough apparently there is just a stress shift (from \" amas\" to \" amás\"), the origin of such a stress is the loss of the diphthong of the ancient \"vos\" inflection from \"vos amáis\" to \"vos amás\". This can be better seen with the verb \"to be\": from \"vos sois\" to \"vos sos\". In vowel-alternating verbs like \"perder\" and \"morir\", the stress shift also triggers a change of the vowel in the root:\n\nFor the \"-ir\" verbs, the Peninsular \"vosotros\" forms end in \"-ís\", so there is no diphthong to simplify, and Rioplatense \"vos\" employs the same form: instead of \"tú vives\", \"vos vivís\"; instead of \"tú vienes\", \"vos venís\" (note the alternation).\n\nThe imperative forms for \"vos\" are identical to the plural imperative forms in Peninsular minus the final \"-d\" (stress remains the same):\n\n\nThe plural imperative uses the \"ustedes\" form (i. e. the third person plural subjunctive, as corresponding to \"ellos\").\n\nAs for the subjunctive forms of \"vos\" verbs, while they tend to take the \"tú\" conjugation, some speakers do use the classical \"vos\" conjugation, employing the \"vosotros\" form minus the \"i\" in the final diphthong. Many consider only the \"tú\" subjunctive forms to be correct.\n\n\nIn the preterite, an \"s\" is sometimes added, for instance \"(vos) perdistes\". This corresponds to the classical \"vos\" conjugation found in literature. Compare Iberian Spanish form \"vosotros perdisteis\". However, it is incorrect.\n\nOther verb forms coincide with \"tú\" after the \"i\" is omitted (the \"vos\" forms are the same as \"tú\").\n\n\nIn the old times, \"vos\" was used as a respectful term. In Rioplatense, as in most other dialects which employ \"voseo\", this pronoun has become informal, supplanting the use of \"tú\" (compare \"you\" in English, which used to be formal singular but has replaced and obliterated the former informal singular pronoun \"thou\"). It is used especially for addressing friends and family members (regardless of age), but may also include most acquaintances, such as co-workers, friends of one's friends, etc.\n\nAlthough literary works use the full spectrum of verb inflections, in Rioplatense (as well as many other Spanish dialects), the future tense tends to use a verbal phrase (periphrasis) in the spoken language.\n\nThis verb phrase is formed by the verb \"ir\" (\"to go\") followed by the preposition \"a\" (\"to\") and the main verb in the infinitive. This resembles the English phrase \"to be going to\" + infinitive verb. For example:\n\n\nThe present perfect (Spanish: Pretérito perfecto compuesto), just like \"pretérito anterior\", is rarely used: the simple past replaces it. However, the Present Perfect is still used in Northwestern Argentina, particularly in the province of Tucumán.\n\n\nBut, in the subjunctive mood, the present perfect is still widely used:\n\n\nIn Buenos Aires a reflexive form of verbs is often used - \"\"se viene\" instead of \"viene\"\", etc.\n\nIn Chilean Spanish there is plenty of lexical influence from the Argentine dialects suggesting a \"masked prestige\" otherwise not expressed, since the image of Argentine things is usually negative. Influences run across the different social strata of Chile. Argentine tourism in Chile during summer and Chilean tourism in Argentina would influence the speech of the upper class. The middle classes would have Argentine influences by watching football in cable television and by watching Argentine programs in the broadcast television. \"La Cuarta\", a \"popular\" tabloid, regularly employs lunfardo words and expressions. Usually Chileans do not recognize the Argentine borrowings as such, claiming they are Chilean terms and expressions. The relation between Argentine dialects and Chilean Spanish is one of \"asymmetric permeability\", with Chilean Spanish adopting sayings of the Argentine variants but usually not the other way around.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35440304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35440304", "title": "Searching for Whitopia", "text": "Searching for Whitopia\n\nSearching for Whitopia: An Improbable Journey to the Heart of White America is a 2009 non-fiction book by Rich Benjamin.\n\nIn May 2010, Benjamin briefly summarized his experiences in a TED talk.\n\nAfrican American journalist Rich Benjamin documents his journeys to find out why more and more white Americans move to small towns and areas that are, for the most part, white, and to explain why Whitopias are growing and what it means for the United States.\n\nBenjamin mounted a two-year tour of the United States, covering 26,907 miles (43,303 km), looking for \"Whitopias\", which he defined as:\n\nHe spent several months in three such areas: St. George, Utah, Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, and Forsyth County, Georgia. In each case, he generated a master plan to thoroughly immerse himself in the community's core, with lists of the power brokers, the important groups, and the significant events. He tried to volunteer or involve himself with those people and groups.\n\nIn St. George, Benjamin rented a house over the telephone in a gated community, La Entrada.\n\nHe took up golfing, fishing, and Texas Hold 'Em. He was generally welcomed in every instance, and learned that the dominant topic in St. George was illegal immigration; a local group had been organized to fight immigration, and they held regular rallies.\n\nIn Idaho, Benjamin rented a resort cabin at Lake Coeur d'Alene. He found a significant number of retired LAPD officers living there, and also found a significant number of gun owners where he learned to shoot a pistol at the local gun range.\n\nHe spent time at a retreat, the only non-white journalist in the group, at the Council of Aryan Nations compound. He was told that the group is not \"white-supremacy\"; they are \"white-segregation\" - they merely don't want to live in close proximity to non-white people. He noted the preponderance of Confederate flags.\n\nIn Georgia he found the predominant cultural activity revolved around a mega-church, so he involved himself in its activities. He felt the most comfortable in this situation, since both blacks and whites in this area are used to seeing the other - as contrasted to the first two sites, where a black person is still a rarity.\n\n"}
{"id": "40860039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40860039", "title": "Socioeconomic impact of female education", "text": "Socioeconomic impact of female education\n\nThe socioeconomic impact of female education constitutes a significant area of research within international development. Increases in the amount of female education in regions tends to correlate with high levels of development. Some of the effects are related to economic development. Women's education increases the income of women and leads to growth in GDP. Other effects are related to social development. Educating girls leads to a number of social benefits, including many related to women's empowerment.\n\nRecent research in human development has established a strong link between women's education and international development. International development is an academic discipline concerned with the social and economic progress in impoverished regions. In particular, researchers seek to determine what factors explain differences in rates of development. Women's education is one of the major explanatory variables behind the rates of social and economic development, and has been shown to have a positive correlation with both. According to notable economist Lawrence Summers, “investment in the education of girls may well be the highest-return investment available in the developing world.” Closing gender disparity is also one of the .\n\nThere are multiple ways researchers measure the effects of women's education on development. Typically, studies concern themselves with the gender gap between the education levels of boys and girls and not simply the level of women's education. This helps to distinguish the specific effects of women's education from the benefits of education in general. Note that some studies, particularly older ones, do simply look at women's total education levels. One way to measure education levels is to look at what percentage of each gender graduates from each stage of school. A similar, more exact way is to look at the average number of years of schooling a member of each gender receives. A third approach uses the literacy rates for each gender, as literacy is one of the earliest and primary aims of education. This provides an idea of not just how much education was received but how effective it was.\n\nThe most common way to measure economic development is to look at changes in growth of GDP. In order to ensure that a connection holds, correlations are analyzed across different countries over different periods of time. Typically the result given is a relatively steady average effect, although variation over time can also be measured. The benefits of education to an individual can also be analyzed. This is done by first finding the cost of education and the amount of income that would have been earned during years enrolled in school. The difference between the sum of these two quantities and the total increase in income due to education is the net return.\n\nBoth individuals and countries benefit from women's education. Individuals who invest in education receive a net monetary gain over the course of their lifetime. According to Harry Patrinos, lead education economist at the World Bank, “the profitability of education, according to estimates of private rate of return, is indisputable, universal, and global.” The principle holds particularly for women, who can expect a 1.2% higher return than men on the resources they invest in education. Providing one extra year of education to girls increases their wages by 10-20%. This increase is 5% more than the corresponding returns on providing a boy with an extra year of schooling.\n\nThis individual monetary gain creates an increase in the overall economic productivity of a country. Girls are underrepresented in schooling, meaning that investments aimed specifically at educating women should produce bigger dividends. Although investment in women's education is not present everywhere, David Dollar and Roberta Gatti have presented findings that show that this decision, along with other failures to invest in women are not “an efficient economic choice for developing countries” and that \"countries that under-invest grow more slowly.” Looking holistically at the opportunity cost of not investing in girls, the total missed GDP growth is between 1.2% and 1.5%. When looking at different regions, it is estimated that 0.4-0.9% of the difference in GDP growth is accounted for solely by differences in the gender gap in education. The effect of the educational gender gap is more pronounced when a country is only moderately poor. Thus the incentive to invest in women goes up as a country moves out of extreme poverty.\n\nIn addition to total economic growth, women's education also increases the equitability of the distribution of wealth in a society. Increased women's education is important for achieving this as it targets the impoverished women, a particularly disadvantaged group. There is also evidence that lower gender disparity in educational attainment for a developing country correlates with lower overall income disparity within society.\n\nWomen's education leads to significant social development. Some of the most notable social benefits include decreased fertility rates and lower infant mortality rates, and lower maternal mortality rates. Closing the gender gap in education also increases gender equality, which is considered important both in itself and because it ensures equal rights and opportunities for people regardless of gender. Women's education has cognitive benefits for women as well. Improved cognitive abilities increase the quality of life for women and also lead to other benefits. One example of this is the fact that educated women are better able to make decisions related to health, both for themselves and their children. Cognitive abilities also translate to increased political participation among women. Educated women are more likely to engage in civic participation and attend political meetings, and there are several instances in which educated women in the developing world were able to secure benefits for themselves through political movements. Evidence also points to an increased likelihood of democratic governance in countries with well-educated women.\n\nThere are also benefits relating to the woman’s role in the household. Educated women have been found to experience less domestic violence, regardless of other social status indicators like employment status. Women with an education are also more involved in the decision-making process of the family and report making more decisions over a given time period. In particular, these benefits extend to economic decisions. Besides the intrinsic value of increasing a woman's agency, having women play a more active role in the family also brings about social benefits for family members. In a household where the mother is educated, children and especially girls are more likely to attend school. In households where a mother is not educated, adult literacy programs can indirectly help to teach mothers the value of education and encourage them to send their children to school. There are also a number of other benefits for children associated with having an educated mother over an educated father, including higher survival rates and better nutrition.\n\nThere are some cases in which women's education has less of an effect on development. Economically, the benefits of investing in women are much smaller in areas facing high levels of poverty. Also, in some cases the education women receive is of much lower quality than what men receive, lowering its effectiveness. This phenomenon can be accompanied by the so-called hidden curriculum in schools, where certain values are reinforced. Emphasis on the superiority of boys can cause educated women to pass up economic opportunities in favor of lower-paying traditionally female jobs, with poor economic and social consequences. There are also situations in which women's education helps development on the macro-scale but is inefficient for a family. In societies where women are married off and leave the family while men stay back and take care of their parents, investing in sons is more valuable to parents. Additionally, while investing in women's education has a higher overall return when looking at all levels of education, through primary school investing in men has a higher rate of return. This gives families who are only planning to send their children to primary school incentives to invest in their sons' education over their daughters' education. Socially, societal gender roles may stifle the ability of women's education to improve gender equality for women. This is particularly the case when education for women is only seen culturally as a tool for making women more attractive wives.\n\nSome researchers don't claim that women's education necessarily has little effect on development, but instead question the methodologies of the research showing that it has a sizeable effect. One issue that researchers acknowledge is the difficulty in comparing education levels. The same number of years of schooling in two different countries may have very different educational content. Similarly, what is termed ‘primary school’ in different country may vary widely. Also, while extensive information for education in developed countries exists, data is only available for a small number of developing countries. This brings into question to what extent the results can be generalized for all developing countries. Additionally, while the pure economic benefits are relatively uncontroversial, there is some discrepancy over how to measure the social benefits, with some variability between studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "31134610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31134610", "title": "Soldiers', Sailors', Marines', Coast Guard and Airmen's Club", "text": "Soldiers', Sailors', Marines', Coast Guard and Airmen's Club\n\nThe Soldiers’, Sailors’, Marines’, Coast Guard and Airmen’s Club is a private social club founded in 1919 and located at 283 Lexington Avenue between East 36th and 37th Streets in the Murray Hill neighborhood of Midtown Manhattan, New York City. It is the only private organization in the New York area accommodating U.S. servicemen and servicewomen at subsidized rates. It also caters to military retirees and veterans and their families.\n\nAccording to the club, its mission is:\n\n“To promote the general welfare of men and women of the Armed Forces of the United States and its Allies, and their families, by maintaining and offering club and lodging rooms”\n\nIn 1919, Cornelia Barnes Rogers and Eleanor Butler Alexander-Roosevelt, wife of Theodore Roosevelt, Jr., along with General John J. Pershing, founded The Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Club to accommodate servicemen returning from overseas duty in World War I. The Club originally served only active duty enlisted male soldiers and sailors, but it now serves all ranks (officers and enlisted) and services, active and retired, of the United States and its allies. With no U.S. government funding, supported solely by guest proceeds and the donations of private citizens, it has accommodated over 2,500,000 men and women of the US military and their families.\n\nCurrently, about 15,000 such personnel patronize the facility annually. In recent years the SSMAC Club has tended to incur an annual deficit of around $350,000.\n\nOne of the largest fundraisers for the club is the prestigious International Debutante Ball held biannually at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City.\n\nSince the early 1920s, the SSMAC Club has occupied two adjacent 19th century townhouses on Lexington Avenue between 36th and 37th Streets. These were built in the 1880s as homes for the upper middle class of that period. It is now a 79-bed facility that includes a library with two Internet stations, two large event rooms (North Lounge, South Lounge; both on the 1st floor), a television room, and a dining room. The walls of both common areas and private rooms are replete with U.S. military memorabilia, especially relating to World War I and World War II. (Private rooms are dedicated to individual veterans, families and other donors having provided pictures, certificates, etc. A small room at the back of the 1st floor memorializes Lt. Col. (Prince) Serge Obolensky.) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "37570329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37570329", "title": "Solluba", "text": "Solluba\n\nThe Ṣolubba, also known as the Ṣleb and the Ṣulayb (, ), were a Ḥutaymi tribal group in the northern part of the Arabian Peninsula who were clearly distinguishable from the Arabs.\n\nThey maintained a distinctive lifestyle as isolated nomads until the mid-20th Century, when the Solubba are believed to have merged into neighbouring ethnic groups. They were last seen by western travellers during the late 1940s. Leopold Weiss, an Austro-Hungarian Jewish (converted to Islam and known as Muhammad Asad) is a philosopher, historian, research scholar and former correspondent of famous German newspaper Frankfurter Zeitung. In his reputed work \"The road to Mecca\" mentions an encounter with Sulluba ear Saudi-Iraqi border in lates 1920s.\n\nThe origin of the Solubba is obscure. They have been identified with the \"Selappayu\" in Akkadian records, and a clue to their origin is their use of desert kites and game traps, first attested to in around 7,000 BC, which makes them the pre-Islamic inhabitants of Arabia.\nCambridge linguist and anthropologist Roger Blench sees the Solubba as the last survivors of Palaeolithic hunters and salt-traders who once dominated Arabia. Those were assimilated in the next wave of humans consisted of cattle herders in the 6th millennium BC who introduced cows, wild donkeys, sheep and dogs, wild camels and goats. Those peoples may have engaged in trade across the Red Sea with speakers of Cushitic or Nilo-Saharan. In the 3rd and 2nd millennium BC speakers of Semitic languages arrived from the Near East and marginalised and absorbed the rest.\n\nWestern travelers reported that the Bedouin did not consider the Solluba to be descendants of Qaḥṭān. One legend mentions that they originated from ancient Christian groups, possibly Crusaders who were taken into slavery by the Bedouin.\nWerner Caskel criticizes the Crusader origin theory and instead proposes that the term \"Solluba\" describes a host of groups hailing from different backgrounds: those of al-Ḥasā being of 12th- to 13th-century AD migrants from southern Persia, and the group to the west being composed of communities emerging after their defeat by the Wahhabis.\nAnother theory sees the Solubba as a former Bedouin group that lost their herds and fell in the eyes of other Bedouin.\n\nThe Solubba were reported by western travelers as having different physical features than other Arabs, often with fairer eyes and hair. They also spoke a distinct variety of Arabic that contained several words exclusive to their dialect.\nThe Bedouin usually differentiated between the Solubba and other Huteimi groups, since unlike Huteimis the Solubba were independent and did not require protection from the Bedouin.\nThe Arab Bedouin despised the Solubba and counted them as men of no honor and thus inferior to them. Their deep knowledge of the desert however earned them the title \"Abu al-Khala\" (Fathers of the empty spaces).\n\nThe Solluba followed occupations such as carpentry, and metal- and leather-working. They were also known as fortune-tellers and magicians, as well as musicians and poets. The Bedouin valued their knowledge of the desert, often hiring them as scouts, and depended on them to heal their animals. Despite their dependence on the Solluba, the Bedouin did not appreciate them and often looked down upon them.\nUnlike other nomadic Huteimi and Bedouin groups, the Solluba did not engage in plundering and were in turn viewed as neutrals and often spared when raids took place. Despite their low status, their hospitality was accepted, especially when a warrior was sick or wounded as they were famed as healers.\n\nDuring spring the Solluba lived close to Bedouin settlements and lived off the milk of their cattle. In summer they trekked deep in the desert accompanied only by their wild asses and lived on hunting. The Solluba owned certain slopes and valleys in the desert and young men gave portions of their territory as dowry to the family of brides to hunt on.\n\nAlthough formally Muslims, few Solluba were observant. They seem to have retained some of their traditional beliefs, worshipping the boulder \"al-Weli Abu Ruzuma\", located in the Syrian Desert. Their emblem, which was shown at ceremonial festivities, was a cross wrapped with a dress. Generally, they were seen as unbelievers and suffered Wahhabi raids, with a notorious massacre in ʿArʿar valley.\n\nClear estimates of Solubba numbers is difficult as a result of their spread over a large geographical area. In 1898 their total number was put at 3,000. Some 1,700 were thought to be spread in the Syrian Desert. Ottoman records show around 500 Solubbas in the region of Mosul.\nTheir numbers continued to dwindle in the 20th century, and many were massacred by Wahhabis during the Ikhwan rebellion, they were however compensated by Ibn Saud. After the Second World War many Solluba were employed in the Iraqi, Jordanian and Kuwaiti armies as reputable trackers. Solluba and other nomads were settled in new urban centres along pipelines after the discovery of oil, many became identified with the Arab tribes where they settled while others continued to be known as Ṣulayb.\n\n"}
{"id": "1105493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1105493", "title": "Ten-star household", "text": "Ten-star household\n\nTen-star household (十星級文明家庭) is a status awarded to households in rural China that exemplify all of the virtues of modern Chinese society. In some regions, this brings with it free utilities, healthcare, education, and even groceries.\n"}
{"id": "22701293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22701293", "title": "Tug (banner)", "text": "Tug (banner)\n\nA tug ( , , or ) or sulde () is a pole with circularly arranged horse or yak tail hairs of varying colors arranged at the top. It was historically flown during the period of the Mongol Empire, and later adopted in derived Turco-Mongol and Turkic khanates and the Ottoman Empire . \nIn the 17th century, it was also adopted by Slavic cavalry (cossacks, haidamaka), under the name bunchuk (Ukrainian: Бунчук; Polish: Buńczuk). It is still used by some units of the Polish military. \nA white-haired banner is used as a peacetime symbol, while the black banner was for wartime. Usage of the horse tail is symbolic because horses are so central to the Mongols' livelihood. This is similar to the use of horse tail hairs for the morin khuur.\n\nThe original white banner disappeared early in history, but the black one survived as the repository of Genghis Khan's soul. The Mongols continued to honor the banner, and Zanabazar (1635–1723) built a monastery with the special mission of flying and protecting the black banner in the 17th century. Around 1937, the black banner disappeared amidst the great purges of the nationalists, monks and intellectuals, and the destruction of monasteries.\n\nThe Nine White banners came into renewed significance in Mongolia after democracy was adopted in the early 1990s as a symbol of the traditional Mongolian state, replacing the previous communist red flags.\n\nThe state banner flown by the Mongols, the \"Yesön Khölt tsagaan tug\" () or the \"Nine Base White Banners\", is composed of nine flag poles decorated with white horse tail hairs hanging from a round surface with a flame or trident-like shape on the top. The Nine White Banners was a peacetime emblem used exclusively by the Khans in front of their yurt. The central banner is larger in size than the rest and is placed in the center of the other eight. The modern Mongolian nine white banners are kept in the Government Palace in Ulaanbaatar.\n\nThe \"Dörvön khölt khar sulde\" () or the \"Four base black banners\" was used in wartime. It is made of black horse tail hairs and flown in the same fashion. According to the illustrated Japanese chronicle \"Mōko Shūrai Ekotoba\", the banner of the Mongolian Yuan fleet that invaded Japan was black. The modern Mongolian black banners are kept in the Ministry of Defense.\n\nWithin the Mongolian Armed Forces, the white tug is used as the finial in military colours' flagpoles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52500012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52500012", "title": "Unicorn Riot", "text": "Unicorn Riot\n\nUnicorn Riot is a decentralized, non-profit media collective that originated online in 2015. The non-hierarchical media organization operates in the US cities of Boston, Denver, Minneapolis/St. Paul, and Philadelphia. They produce live streams of rallies and protests and are funded by viewer donations.\n\nUnicorn Riot currently has around 10 members, based in Boston, Denver, Minneapolis, and Philadelphia. The media collective is non-hierarchical and makes decisions based on consensus.\n\nUnicorn Riot has maintained a channel on livestream.org since May 2015. Besides creating live video of protests, the media collective also engages in investigative journalism, producing web series, video packages, blogs, and podcasts. They have published documents obtained through open records requests, including a copy of the Denver Police Department Crowd Management Manual. They also produce the weekly news show \"Deprogram\". Unicorn Riot releases its content under a Creative Commons license.\n\nThe founding members of Unicorn Riot met while filming direct actions in support of Tar Sands Blockade and Occupy Wall Street. Some had previously worked for online news outlets and had grown frustrated with news organizations that failed to publish their work. The founders of Unicorn Riot started meeting in Minneapolis in the fall of 2014. Among the founders were Lorenzo Serna, Andrew Neef, Niko Georgiades, Pat Boyle, and Ray Weiland. Unicorn Riot seeks to amplify the voices of people from marginalized communities and to broadcast and bring context to stories that are not picked up by the mainstream media. Early on, they documented the Ferguson protests following the shooting of Michael Brown. During the next year, Unicorn Riot registered as an educational 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization.\n\nUnicorn Riot journalists are often embedded in protests, and film from the front lines. Members of the media collective have been repeatedly targeted for arrest by law enforcement officers and often have their cameras and equipment confiscated. Their press credentials have also been challenged by the police.\n\nUnicorn Riot has documented a number of rallies and protests related to the Black Lives Matter movement. Following the November 2015 shooting of Jamar Clark in Minneapolis, Unicorn Riot maintained a live stream of the occupation of the Minneapolis Police Department's 4th Precinct station. The media collective also documented the protests that took place following the shooting of Philando Castile, including blockages of interstate freeways.\n\nIn Denver, Colorado, Unicorn Riot live streamed the removal of homeless encampments, including an eviction that took place during a blizzard on the morning of December 15, 2015.\n\nDuring the protests against the Dakota Access Pipeline, Unicorn Riot was one of the first media groups to be present when Standing Rock Sioux tribe members set up the Sacred Stone Camp on April 1, 2016. The media collective has maintained a near continuous presence at the pipeline protests. Video from Unicorn Riot showing a crowd of protesters being sprayed with water cannons during sub-zero temperatures was used to contradict police reports that the cannons were only being used to put out fires. Four Unicorn Riot reporters were arrested in September and October 2016. Chris Schiano and Georgiades were arrested on September 13 as they were filming protesters who had locked themselves to equipment being used to construct the pipeline. Reporter Lorenzo Serna was arrested in both North Dakota and Iowa, and reporter Jenn Schreiter was arrested in October while reporting on a lockdown at a DAPL construction site in Iowa.\n\nUnicorn Riot had documented several of the chat rooms in the Discord application prior to the Unite the Right rally in August 2017, which led to violence between alt right groups and local citizens, including the death of one person. The group subsequently released this material, which is being used to identify the anonymous uses on Discord that may have been part of the conspiracy to direct more violence at the rally.\n\nUnicorn Riot produced a feature-length documentary film about the resistance to the Dakota Access Pipeline entitled \"Black Snake Killaz: A #NoDAPL Story.\" The film was premiered on November 17, 2017 at the Parkway theater in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and released online free of charge for educational purposes via Unicorn Riot's website on November 18, 2017.\n"}
{"id": "29600235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29600235", "title": "WUPHF.com", "text": "WUPHF.com\n\n\"WUPHF.com\" is the ninth episode of the seventh season of the American comedy television series \"The Office\" and the show's 135th episode overall. Written by Aaron Shure and directed by Danny Leiner, the episode aired on NBC in the United States on November 18, 2010. It resolves two long-running plot threads: Ryan's WUPHF.com project and Dwight and Angela's contract to have a baby. This episode received positive reviews and was nominated for the .\n\nRyan Howard (B. J. Novak) has gotten Michael Scott (Steve Carell), Darryl Philbin (Craig Robinson), Stanley Hudson (Leslie David Baker), Andy Bernard (Ed Helms), and Pam Halpert (Jenna Fischer) to put in funding for WUPHF.com (introduced in \"The Whistleblower\" as a cross-portal messaging system). While Ryan touts a planned \"investors ski weekend\", Michael learns that there is already an offer to buy out WUPHF.com and Ryan only has nine days of funding left before his venture collapses. Ryan's subsequent sales pitch falls apart when he reveals that the potential buyer is Washington University Public Health Fund, since the investors deduce that they only want to purchase the company for the domain name, because it is the acronym for the fund. Though the others demand that WUPHF.com be sold, Michael stands by Ryan, and since Michael owns over 50% of WUPHF.com, his decision stands. Pam tells Michael that Ryan has never viewed Michael as either his mentor or a best friend, and is now using Michael's unrequited affection for him to make him support WUPHF.com beyond reason, but everyone will lose their money if they do not sell, not just Michael. Michael takes this in, and is silently hurt when Ryan talks his way out of having dinner with him and blithely supports Michael's theoretical plan to get a second mortgage for more WUPHF.com funds. Despite this, he still does not agree to a sale, and instead lists his erstwhile protege's flaws right in front of a surprised and visibly wounded Ryan, then points out all his talents and that he believes in him. Taken aback by Michael's faith in him, Ryan at last makes a sincere effort to make WUPHF.com a success without additional investor funds. Ultimately forced to accept defeat, he sends Michael a message that he is going to sell WUPHF.com. Michael expresses relief. \n\nDwight Schrute (Rainn Wilson) creates a hay festival in the parking lot for the Thanksgiving holiday, in order to exorcise the memories from his childhood days when his family had competing hay festivals and he never was elected king for them. His efforts distract him from fulfilling a request for sex from Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) per their contract. A frustrated Angela meets a charming, friendly man (Jack Coleman) who is attending the festival with his young son. Angela is pleased to meet someone who laughs at her jokes rather than at her, and approves when he asks if he can call her sometime. She is still more pleased when the man reveals he is a widower. Dwight appoints himself the \"Hay Festival King\" in the meantime, but arrives at his and Angela's warehouse rendezvous point to see their procreation contract has been stamped VOID, and looks stricken. Kevin Malone (Brian Baumgartner), meanwhile, gets lost in the hay maze and panics.\n\nJim Halpert (John Krasinski) is in the midst of a record sales streak; he claims that his sales skills have been sharpened at home by convincing baby Cece to eat baby food. However, Kevin and Angela inform Jim that Sabre instituted a commissions cap for the year and Jim maxed out his returns. Jim talks to Gabe Lewis (Zach Woods) about it, but Gabe insists that he cannot change the policy. Unmotivated to work, Jim chats with his coworkers and makes fart noises, irritating both Gabe and Pam. He finally fills his time by editing the intro to Jo Bennett's (Kathy Bates) audio autobiography so that it addresses Gabe. He then calls Gabe on his desk phone and sets up the receiver next to a playback of the edited autobiography, prompting Gabe to listen to the entire audiobook.\n\n\"WUPHF.com\" was written by co-executive producer Aaron Shure, his fifth writing credit on the series, and directed by Danny Leiner, his first \"Office\" directing credit. In a deleted scene, Michael seeks advice from Toby while the HR representative is having a webchat with his daughter; when Michael overhears Sasha talking about Toby's ex-wife's new boyfriend, Michael forgets he wanted help dealing with Ryan, and laughs at Toby's misery at the news.\n\nIn its original American broadcast on November 18, 2010, \"WUPHF.com\" was viewed by an estimated 7.28 million viewers and received a 3.8 rating/10% share among adults between the ages of 18 and 49, improving from the prior week's episode.\n\nFor his work on this episode, Aaron Shure was nominated for a Writers Guild of America Award for .\n\n"}
{"id": "44457130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44457130", "title": "Youth in Brazil", "text": "Youth in Brazil\n\nThe youth population in 2010 was 34.5 percent higher than it was in 1980. However, birthrates among Brazilians are dropping and youth as a percent of total population is decreasing. The fast fertility decline since the 1960s is the largest contributing factor to Brazil's slowing population growth rate, aging population, and fast-paced demographic transition. By 2050 the number of youth is projected to fall again by 33.1 percent in comparison to the 2010 youth population.\n\nToday Brazilian youth are living at home longer than before due to a longer time spent in school and trouble finding steady employment. It is not uncommon for youth to live at home or be dependents of their parents until they get married. In general, men live at home with their parents longer than women do. The family has great influence over Brazilian youth. The family provides youth with socialization and allows them to develop and shape their personalities.\n\nThe average age for youth to get married is twenty years old. Education is positively correlated with the age of marriage. According to fertility surveys, 30% of women with at least six years of education got married before age 20. The percentage increased to 60% among women who obtained less than six years of education. Youth living in rural areas generally get married sooner than urban youth. In most cases youth engage in sexual activity before marriage. Only one in ten youth use birth control.\n\nEducation in Brazil is free and regulated by the national Ministry of Education (MEC), while the funding and administration is derived from the states. The education system consists of three stages: pre-school, fundamental education, and upper secondary education. Pre-school covers ages four and five, fundamental education covers age six through fourteen and upper secondary education is for youth age 15-17.\n\nBrazilian students have one of the highest rates of grade repetition amongst students in counties who participate in the PISA tests. Over eight million Brazilian youth did not finish their fundamental education. Over a third of 20- to 24-year-olds leave school without reaching upper secondary education. This is twice the average rate observed by the OECD. The average literacy rate is approximately 97.5%. The literacy rate among male youth is 96.7% and 98.3% among females. About 8% of the youth population have already left school before age 15. By the age of 18 only 50% of Brazilian youth remain in education. The labor market does not require as high levels of education as other countries.\n\nBrazilian youth work in sectors such as manufacturing, trade, construction, hotel, and restaurant industries. Since 2000 states have been in charge of setting their own minimum wage. Industrialization and service sectors provide work opportunities in the cities for young people. These jobs often have high turnover rates.\n\nIn Brazil a majority of youth do not work out of necessity. Among youth age 18-22 only 27.2% work because they say they have to. Approximately 24.9% work because they want to be independent, while 23.3% work because they consider work to be a personal achievement.\n\nBrazil has instituted policies specifically to help youth make more smooth and successful transitions from school to work. In 2003 the first national program was created to assist young people in obtaining their first job. That program is First Job Stimulus Program (Programa de Estimulo ao Primeiro Emprego). In 2011 the National Agenda on Decent Work for Youth (Agenda Nacional de Trabalho Decente para a Juventude) was created.\n\nUnemployment rates among youth in Brazil are generally double the rates among adults. As of 2011, there was an approximate 15.4% youth unemployment rate. Specifically, youth males have a 12.2% unemployment rate while females have a 19.8% unemployment rate. \nUnemployment Insurance (UI) stated in Brazil in 1986 and has existed in its present form since 1994. The insurance covers individuals in the private sector who lose their work through unjustified dismissal, including being laid-off. There are currently no requirements for an unemployed individual to search for work. An estimated 27% of Brazilian unemployment recipients are under the age of 21. This is partially because youth are less likely to be eligible for unemployment insurance.\n\nUNESCO calculates that there are 54.5 homicides for every 100,000 young men living in cities such as Recife, Brazil. Most homicides occur in poor barrios like Santa Barbara and Vientnã. The highest death rates were among males age 15 to 24. Not all youth crimes in Brazil are violent homicides. Gang activity is common among young people, especially in favelas. In Brazil the favelas are controlled primarily by youth and young adults.\n\nIn the Brazilian favelas it is common for children around the age of ten to join a gang. At age twelve they can carry a weapon. This is especially dangerous because, at this stage in a child's life they have not developed the ability to control their actions, especially with weapons. There are also pressures from gangs and drugs influences that increase youth crime and homicide. Criminal gangs use as much violence than necessary to control their business, so they are not disturbed by police.\n\nHistorically, youth policies in Brazil focus primarily on two types of intervention policy. One focus sees youth as asocial threat. The other policy views youth as the subject to rights. However, youth policies are starting to shift away from the 'youth problem approach' of combating violence and controlling youth's free time. There is now a push to ensure their rights.\n\nIn 2010, the Constitution of Brazil was amended to specifically include and protect youth. A new chapter in the constitution entitled, \"Family, Child, Adolescent, Youth, and Elderly\" was created.\n\nOn August 5, 2013 Brazil's Parliament approved the creation of the Statute of Youth. The Statute provides guidelines and principles for public youth policy, youth rights, and the legal establishment of a National System of Youth and Youth Councils. The Statute of Youth defines youth as people between age 15 and 29.\n\nThe Statute requires that youth have the right to:\n\n\nPublic and Private agents engaging in youth, must follow these youth policy guidelines.\n\nBrazil has a compulsory voting system. Youth gain the right to vote at age 16. Voting is optional for youth age 16 to 18 and people over 70 years old.\n\nIn June 2013, a student-led protest movement began in São Paulo, Brazil. The protests began when bus and subway fares were raised 10-cents. The protests was led by the Free Fare Movement (Movimento Passe Livre). As the youth protests went on, the movement grew to address other issues, including excessive amounts of money being used for the World Cup, government corruption, and social inequalities. The youth also stood up to police brutality against their fellow protesters. The goals of the movement included improvement of public transportation, national health care, and the public education system.\n"}
{"id": "52953201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52953201", "title": "Zia Charitable Trust corruption case", "text": "Zia Charitable Trust corruption case\n\nThe Zia Charitable Trust corruption case refers an ongoing corruption case in Bangladesh that relates to corruption over the misuse of funds in a charity named after former President Ziaur Rahman. Khaleda Zia, former Prime Minister of Bangladesh is one of the accused in the case.\n\nThe trust was named after the husband of Khaleda Zia, former President, Ziaur Rahman. President Zia was assassinated in 1981. The former Prime Minister Khaleda Zia has a \"bitter\" rivalry with the incumbent Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina.\n\nBangladesh Anti Corruption Commission filled the Zia Charitable Trust corruption case in Tejgaon Police Station on 8 August 2011. The case accused four people including former Prime Minister Khaleda Zia. The other accused are Harris Chowdhury, former political secretary to Khaleda Zia, Ziaul Islam Munna, incumbent acting director of naval security and traffic in Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority, and the personal assistant to former mayor of Dhaka, Sadeque Hossain Khoka, Monirul Islam Khan. The Anti Corruption commission filed another related case on 3 July 2008 over corruption in the Zia Orphanage. There was six accused in this case including Former Prime Minister Khaleda Zia and her son Tarique Rahman. The case accused them embezzling 21 million taka from the trust.\n\nOn 24 February 2015 an arrest warrant was issued by the court against Khaleda Zia in the case. The arrest warrant was issued after she skipped a number of court dates. She surrenderd to the court and received bail on 5 April 2015. The prosecution did not oppose her bail petition. The Anti corruption commission took the charges to court on 16 January 2012. Khaleda Zia has filled a petition with the High Court to halt the proceedings of the Zia trust and orphanage case. Khaleda Zia and her son Tarique Rahman are on bail in the case. Tarique has been staying in London since 2008.\n\nAfter 10 years of ongoing trial In 8 February 2018 Khaleda Zia and Tarique Rahman as per court verdict, were jailed for 5 and 10 years respectively due to involvement in the Zia Charitable Trust corruption case. While Tarique was on exile, Khaleda would be imprisoned on old Dhaka Central Jail on Nazimuddin Road. In protest BNP held nationwide demonstrations, which were foiled by well prepared police force across the nation. A large number of BNP activists were arrested during clashes with the police. The verdict also jailed Quazi Salimul Haq Kamal, Kamal Uddin Siddique, Mominur Rahman, and Sharfuddin Ahmed.\n\nOn 29 October 2018 BNP Chairperson Khaleda Zia and three others including Harris Chowdhury, former political secretary to the then PM Khaleda as per supreme court verdict were sentenced to seven years’ rigorous imprisonment in Zia Charitable Trust corruption case.\nKhaleda and the other convicts were also fined Tk 10 lakh each, in default of which they will have to serve six more months in jail, according to the verdict.\nThis is the highest punishment under the existing law.\nThe court also ordered to attach in favour of the state the 42 kathas of land which was purchased under the name of the trust.\n"}
