{"id": "6017269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6017269", "title": "Alicia Koplowitz", "text": "Alicia Koplowitz\n\nAlicia Koplowitz y Romero de Juseu (born 12 September 1954) is a Spanish business magnate and one-time noblewoman. When her father died, she and her sister inherited Construcciones y Contratas, S.A. (CYCSA), a company founded by her father. She then sold her part of the company to her sister and created one of the largest family offices in Europe called Omega Capital. She ranks as Spain's richest woman in \"Forbes 2013 World's Richest People\" list (#589 in the world).\n\nAlicia was born in Madrid (Spain) in 1954, the second and youngest daughter (after Esther, born in 1953) of Ernesto Koplowitz Sternberg, a Jewish businessman from Upper Silesia (Germany) who settled down in Spain to escape the increasing German Nazi persecution in the early-1930s, and Esther Romero de Juseu y Armenteros, a Spanish aristocrat. (Alicia and Esther inherited their titles from their mother. Alicia is \"Marquesa de Bellavista\" and \"Marquesa del Real Socorro\" while Esther was \"Marquesa de Casa Peñalver\", a title now inherited by one of her daughters.) Her parents married in 1950 in a Catholic ceremony.\n\nUsing his German language skills, her father first worked for the German electronics company AEG and then in 1952, borrowing funds from a German friend, purchased the construction company \"Construcciones y Reparaciones S.A.\" which he renamed \"Construcciones y Contratas S.A. (CYCSA).\" He slowly built the company, carefully cultivating relationships during the precarious Franco era, and when Spain experienced a construction boom in the early 1960s, the company flourished.\n\nAlicia attended the \"Lycée Français\" and University Complutense of Madrid. \n\nIn 1962, her father died in a horse-riding accident and her mother enlisted Ramón Areces, a close friend of her father and the president of El Corte Inglés S.A., the largest department store chain in Europe, to run CYCSA for her and her daughters' benefit. In 1968, Alicia's mother died of cancer.\n\nIn 1969, Alicia's sister Esther married Alberto Alcocer and six months later, Alicia married Alberto Alcocer's cousin Alberto Cortina, the son of Pedro Cortina Mauri, foreign minister during the Franco period and founder of the beer brand San Miguel. The sisters gave up their board seats to their husbands and the \"Albertos\", as they were known, made the firm grow spectacularly from 1973 onwards and diversified acquiring real estate, Banco Zaragozano, and 47 percent of Catalonia construction firm \"Fomento de Obras y Construcciones SA (FOCSA).\"\n\nIn 1990, Alicia divorced Alberto Cortina after he was photographed by paparazzi in 1989 with another woman (Marta Chávarri, then wife of Fernando Falcó, \"marqués de Cubas,\" who Esther would later marry in 2003). At the same time, Esther also found that her husband was having an affair and divorced six months later. In 1990, the sisters returned to the board of CYCSA, filling the seats vacated by their husbands. Their husbands received ownership of the Banco Zaragozano as part of the divorce settlement.\n\nIn 1992, CYCSA merged with \"'Fomento de Obras y Construcciones, S.A.\" (FOCSA) forming the largest construction company in Spain. The company was renamed \"Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas S.A. (FCC).\" In 1998, Alicia sold her 28.26% stake in FCC to her sister Esther for 871 million euro. When Alicia left FCC in 1998, FCC was the largest construction and services company in Spain with nearly the sales of the next largest. In 2012, FCC had dropped to fifth largest in Spain while its competitor Grupo ACS (with the sisters' ex-husbands Alberto Cortina & Alberto Alcocer among its largest shareholders) is now the largest construction and services company in the world.\n\nSince then, Alicia has diversified her investments, mainly through Private Equity, blue chip companies in the stock exchange, oil and real estate (such as the Ritz in Madrid, the Park Hyatt in Milan and commercial and office buildings all over the US), advised by Oscar Fanjul (a former ex-chairman of Repsol). She has an estimated fortune of 3,000 million euro.\n\nIn 1998, Alicia created Omega Capital, a venture capital firm specializing in growth. Omega Capital is an investment company 100% owned by Alicia Koplowitz. The first investment in funds of hedge funds was made in 1999.\n\nShe has created two foundations: \"Fundación Vida y Esperanza\" (in 1994), that helps children, adolescents and young adults with social, family and financial problems with housing, education and work. The foundation now has approximately 100 people receiving full-time aid in Spain. Through a different branch of Vida y Esperanza she also gives housing and support to the elderly, helps people with special needs and works with other foundations.\n\nThrough her charitable foundation \"Fundación Alicia Koplowitz\" she sends Spanish fellows to research in child psychiatry in England and the U.S. at places like King's College, Columbia University's Medical Center or Stanford University. These fellowships cover the full research, housing and salary for 2 to 4 years and then help the fellow seek employment at a top institution when they return to Spain. The Foundation also organizes every year the largest convention for psychiatry in Spain where top scientist from all over the world come during one week to give lectures and make round tables and debates. In 2009 she was named an honorary member of the Spanish Society of Psychiatrists for her efforts to promote the study and development of child and adolescent psychiatry. Thanks to her efforts, the Spanish State recognized child and adolescent psychiatry as different specialization within general psychiatry in Spain.\n\nAlicia Koplowitz also promoted, built and donated to the State the largest hospital in Europe specialized in multiple sclerosis in 2004 (Alicia Koplowitz Multiple Sclerosis Hospital).\n\nAmong her distinctions and awards, she was awarded the \"Gran Cruz de la Orden del Mérito Civil\" (May 2003), Chevalier de La Légion d'honneur of France (Knight of the Legion of Honour, of France), the prize for the recognition of her career from the State of Madrid in 2007 (Premio Persona Singular de la Comunidad de Madrid), the Gold Medal from the Spanish State in 2009 and the Gold Medal from the Red Cross in 2013.\n\nShe is a member of several organizations, universities and foundations such as Member of the Board of the following organizations: L’Union Centrale des Arts Décoratifs \"UCAD\" de France, Christie's Auction House, The Shimon Peres Center for Peace, Guggenheim Museum, Prado Museum and The Prince of Asturias Foundation and Prize. She is also a member of the Board of trustees of University Charles III of Spain.\n\nShe is known to have one of the most important art collections in Europe and the largest one in Spain, her favourite pieces are by Goya, Picasso, Modigliani, Van Gogh, Rotko and De Kooning among others.\n\nAlicia has three sons with Alberto Cortina:\n\nAlicia is known to have a very low-key way of life and an extremely discreet social life. It is rare to see her at any social event besides the ones organized by her foundation and she always uses commercial airlines when traveling.\n\nBetween 2004 - 2006 Koplowitz was in a relationship with a Spanish aristocrat Carlos Fitz-James Stuart, 19th Duke of Alba. \nSince 2012 she has been in a relationship with a Portuguese businessman and aristocrat Miguel Pais do Amaral, Count of Alferrarede.\n\nAlicia was brought up Catholic by her mother and was for some years associated with the Legion of Christ.\n\nHer Cuban-born mother, Esther Romero de Juseu y Armenteros (died 1968), started a legal battle to obtain the Marquisate of El Real Socorro, which ended in 1971 with Koplowitz gaining the nobiliary title; her sister Esther obtained in court in 1988 the County of Peñalver.\n\nIn March 2017 she lost in court the right to be called the Marquise of Bellavista after being sued by her Cuban-American distant cousin María Elena de Cárdenas y González, aged 97. The same month de Cárdenas also won in the Spanish courts the Marquisate of Almendares from another Cuban man, meanwhile in the previous month (February 2017), she gained the Marquisate of Campo Florido from Koplowitz's niece, Alicia Alcocer-Koplowitz.\n\n"}
{"id": "28169313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28169313", "title": "Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive 2011", "text": "Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive 2011\n\nThe Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive 2011/61/EU (or \"AIFMD\" for short) is an EU law on the financial regulation of hedge funds, private equity, real estate funds, and other \"Alternative Investment Fund Managers\" (AIFMs) in the European Union. The Directive requires all covered AIFMs to obtain authorisation, and make various disclosures as a condition of operation. It followed the global financial crisis. Before, the alternative investment industry had not been regulated at EU level.\n\nIt was reported in May 2014 that only one-third of EU member states had successfully implemented the directive into law. As of 2014, the countries that had transposed AIFMD into law include Cyprus, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, (Germany), France, Malta and Ireland. In December 2014, the European Commission issued a formal warning to countries including Spain, Latvia and Poland for not complying with AIFMD implementation.\n\nThe AIFMD was prompted as part of a wider regulatory effort undertaken by G20 nations following the global market downturn of 2008. Provisions of the AIFMD include increasing transparency by AIFMs and assuring that national supervisors, the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), and the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) have the information they need to monitor financial systems in the EU. The AIFMD also is intended to protect investors.\n\nOn the need for the directive, an explanatory document from the European Commission stated that AIFMs had become \"very significant actors in the European financial system, managing a large quantity of assets on behalf of pension funds and other investors; accounting for a significant proportion of trading activity in financial markets; and constituting an important source of counterparty risk for other market participants\" and that they had \"contributed to the build-up of leverage in the financial system, the consequences of which for the stability of financial markets became apparent when leverage in the hedge fund sector was rapidly unwound during the crisis\".\n\nWhen the directive was approved by the European Parliament, José Manuel Barroso, then President of the European Commission, said \"The adoption of the directive means that hedge funds and private equity will no longer operate in a regulatory void outside the scope of supervisors. The new regime brings transparency and security to the way these funds are managed and operate, which adds to the overall stability of our financial system.\"\n\nThe scope of the application of the directive is defined. The directives apply to EU AIFMs which manage one or more AIFs irrespective of whether such AIFs are EU AIFs or non-EU AIFs; non-EU AIFMs which manage one or more EU AIFs; and non-EU AIFMs which market one or more AIFs in the Union irrespective of whether such AIFs are EU AIFs or non-EU AIFs. Specific entities that are exempt from the directives are also listed.\n\nAn AIFM must be authorised with the AIFM's home state regulator for AIFMs that have assets under management in AIFs above the thresholds of: (1) 100 million EUR, if the AIF uses leverage; or (2) 500 million EUR, if the AIF does not use leverage.\n\nThe AIFMD's reporting regulations require each AIF to be named using a series of codes, including its national identification code, the Bank Identifier Code (BIC) and the Legal Entity Identifier code. AIFMs must select only brokers and counterparties that are subject to regulatory supervision, that are financially sound, and that have the necessary organizational structure to provide services to the AIFM or the AIF. All AIFMs must submit quarterly, semi-annual, or annual reports to their respective member state regulator with information about the AIFM and its AIFs as well as an annual report with information such as the fund's financial statements, activities, and information about the total amount of remuneration paid by the AIFM to its staff.\n\nSpecial requirements apply to AIFMs using leverage. AIFMs are required to disclose the extent of the leverage employed within their funds, and prove that leverage in any fund has been limited to a reasonable amount. The scope of AIFMD requirements that apply to AIFMs are different, depending on whether the AIFM is engaged in portfolio or risk management activities within the EU or markets its funds to EU investors. Each fund can only have one AIFM, though the AIFM can delegate certain functions to other entities. EU AIFMs became subject to all of the provisions of the AIFMD once it was implemented at the EU Member State level. Authorised fund managers located within the EU are permitted to market their EU funds to professional investors in any EU member state under what the AIFMD calls a passport.\n\nThe reporting requirements of the AIFMD apply to all AIFMs who manage or market alternative funds within the EU. To fulfill the reporting requirements, AIFMs must file an Annex IV report within 30 days of the end of the applicable reporting period, which is determined by the amount of an AIFM's assets under management. Reporting periods range from quarterly to half-yearly to annually. The Annex IV report is a government regulatory document comprising 41 questions, analysing a fund's investment portfolios, exposures, leverage ratios, liquidity and risk analysis.\n\nIn chapter V, section 2, articles 26–30, additional obligations apply for AIFs acquiring controlling influence in non-listed companies. This is essentially directed at private equity firms, and partly aims to stop asset stripping. Article 26(5) defines \"control\" as holding over 50% of voting rights, including as a ‘club deal’. This was watered down from 30% in the AIFMD draft (formerly in article 26(1)(a)). Article 27(1) states that funds have to notify investee companies and shareholders when they acquire control, and article 28(4) requires them to disclose the acquisition to stakeholder groups including employees or representatives via the investee's board. Article 29 places an obligation on the central Private Equity management company (rather than an investee companies) to give information on operational and financial developments in firm's annual reports. Article 30 lists distribution requirements, which are intended to prevent asset stripping in the first 24 months from acquiring control).\n\nFor the purposes of the directive, marketing is defined as any offering or placement (sale) of an AIF at the initiative of the AIFM, or on behalf of the AIFM, to investors domiciled in the EU. Member state laws and rules determine whether a fund is engaged in marketing for purposes of the directive.\n\nEU funds managed by EU managers may be marketed across the EU under the AIFMD passport, provided the manager complies with all of the requirements of the directive. EU or non-EU funds managed by non-EU managers may currently be marketed within the EU only under national private placement regimes, as non-EU managers cannot obtain the marketing passport.\nLikewise, non-EU funds managed by EU managers may only be marketed under the private placement regimes. Funds marketed under national private placement regimes are subject to compliance with certain provisions of the AIFMD related to reporting, regulatory co-operation agreements, and the jurisdiction of the fund and the manager not being listed as a \"non-cooperative country and territory\" by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF).\n\nIn 2015, an analyst for EurActiv.com, a European news and policy website, expressed concern that the directive puts non-EU funds at a disadvantage. In 2015, the European Securities and Markets Authority initiated a consultation to discuss issuing new rules to allow EU AIFMs to market their non-EU AIFs under the AIFMD passport, and likewise for non-EU managers to market their funds under the AIFMD passport. In July 2016 AIFM concluded that there were no fundamental obstacles to issuing AIFMD passports to Canada, Guernsey, Japan, Jersey and Switzerland, seven other non-EU countries are also under consideration.\n\nThe directive came into force on 21 July 2011. On 16 November 2011, ESMA issued technical advice to the European Commission (EC) on possible implementation measures for the AIFMD. On 19 December 2012, the EC added a series of new regulations to supplement the AIFMD text. EU member states were required to write the AIFMD into national law by no later than 22 July 2013. As of July 2014, not every EU member state had transposed the AIFMD into national law. Some, but not all, member states provided for a one-year transition period, beginning 22 July 2013, before AIFMs would become subject to the AIFMD requirements.\n\nThe directive has so far been supplemented by three Level II Regulations: \n\nThe European Securities and Markets Authority has also issued a number of guidelines to national competent authorities including on key concepts of AIFMD and remuneration.\n\nSince 1 April 2013, the FMA Liechtenstein accepts applications for authorisation of AIFMs and AIFs as well as other persons and entities requiring authorisation under the AIFM Act.\nOn 30 September 2016, the EEA Joint Committee, whose decisions result in the inclusion of new EU law in the EEA Agreement, decided to incorporate the first package of legal acts relating to the European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs).\n\nOn 27 June 2013 (the measures were released on 25 June 2013) Malta became the first EU Member State to complete the transposition of the requirements of the Directive into national law. The Maltese legislator and the Malta Financial Services Authority transposed the requirements of the Directive by means of a series of regulations issued under the Investment Services Act (Cap. 370, Laws of Malta) and a number of new MFSA rulebooks. = EU-Passport\n\nIn Luxembourg, the AIFM directive was transposed into national law on 12 July 2013. According to the 2013 law an entity – in order to become an AIFM – will have to submit an application to, and obtain authorisation from, the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF). The application must include information on the directors of the AIFM, its shareholders, and the alternative investment funds (AIF), which it intends to manage and demonstrate how the entity will comply with the requirements of the AIFM Law.\n\nThe AIFM directive was transposed into France's national law on 27 July 2013.\n\nIn a study conducted by Multifonds in June 2014, 72% of respondents from the EU and Canada said they expected non-EU managers to set up European operations in order to take advantage of AIFMD. In a 2014 study conducted by Preqin, 71% of American fund managers said they believed the AIFMD would have a negative effect on the industry. Fund managers from within the EU, Asia and the rest of the world excluding the United States reported in 2014 and 2015 that the AIFMD was costing them more than they had expected it to. Criticism of the costs of the legislation comes partly from industry lobbyists.\n\nAccording to a study conducted by Deloitte, most of the UK-based asset managers think that the AIFM Directive could reduce the competitiveness of the EU's alternative investment funds industry because of the compliance the regulations impose on the industry. In addition, these managers from the hedge fund, private equity and real estate sectors believe that the directive will reduce the number of non-EU managers operating within the EU. The AIFMD passed after contentious negotiations, especially between UK and French authorities, and because of its third-country provisions, which attracted considerable interest and engagement from U.S. authorities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3942109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3942109", "title": "Anti-consumerism", "text": "Anti-consumerism\n\nAnti-consumerism is a sociopolitical ideology that is opposed to consumerism, the continual buying and consuming of material possessions. Anti-consumerism is concerned with the private actions of business corporations in pursuit of financial and economic goals at the expense of the public welfare, especially in matters of environmental protection, social stratification, and ethics in the governing of a society. In politics, anti-consumerism overlaps with environmental activism, anti-globalization, and animal-rights activism; moreover, a conceptual variation of anti-consumerism is \"post-consumerism\", living in a material way that transcends consumerism.\n\nAnti-consumerism arose in response to the problems caused by the long-term mistreatment of human consumers and of the animals consumed, and from the incorporation of consumer education to school curricula; examples of anti-consumerism are the book \"No Logo\" (2000) by Naomi Klein, and documentary films such as \"The Corporation\" (2003), by Mark Achbar and Jennifer Abbott, and \"Surplus: Terrorized into Being Consumers\" (2003), by Erik Gandini; each made anti-corporate activism popular as an ideologically accessible form of civil and political action.\n\nThe criticism of economic materialism as a dehumanizing behaviour that is destructive of the Earth, as human habitat, comes from religion and social activism. The religious criticism asserts that materialist consumerism interferes with the connection between the individual and God, and so is an inherently immoral style of life; thus the German historian Oswald Spengler (1880–1936) said that \"Life in America is exclusively economic in structure, and lacks depth.\" From the Roman Catholic perspective, Thomas Aquinas said that \"Greed is a sin against God, just as all mortal sins, in as much as man condemns things eternal for the sake of temporal things\"; in that vein, Francis of Assisi, Ammon Hennacy, and Mohandas Gandhi said that spiritual inspiration guided them towards simple living.\n\nFrom the secular perspective, social activism indicates that from consumerist materialism derive crime (which originates from the poverty of economic inequality), industrial pollution and the consequent environmental degradation, and war as a business. About the societal discontent born of malaise and hedonism, Pope Benedict XVI said that the philosophy of materialism offers no \"raison d'être\" for human existence; likewise, the writer Georges Duhamel said that \"American materialism [is] a beacon of mediocrity that threatened to eclipse French civilization\".\n\nAnti-consumerism originated from criticism of consumption, starting with Thorstein Veblen, who, in the book \"The Theory of the Leisure Class: An Economic Study of Institutions\" (1899), indicated that consumerism dates from the cradle of civilization. The term \"consumerism\" also denotes economic policies associated with Keynesian economics, and the belief that the free choice of consumers should dictate the economic structure of a society (cf. producerism).\n\nMany anti-corporate activists believe the rise of large-business corporations poses a threat to the legitimate authority of nation states and the public sphere. They feel corporations are invading people's privacy, manipulating politics and governments, and creating false needs in consumers. They state evidence such as invasive advertising adware, spam, telemarketing, child-targeted advertising, aggressive guerrilla marketing, massive corporate campaign contributions in political elections, interference in the policies of sovereign nation states (Ken Saro-Wiwa), and news stories about corporate corruption (Enron, for example).\n\nAnti-consumerism protesters point out that the main responsibility of a corporation is to answer only to shareholders, giving human rights and other issues almost no consideration. The management does have a primary responsibility to their shareholders, since any philanthropic activities that do not directly serve the business could be deemed to be a breach of trust. This sort of financial responsibility means that multi-national corporations will pursue strategies to intensify labor and reduce costs. For example, they will attempt to find low wage economies with laws which are conveniently lenient on human rights, the natural environment, trade union organization and so on (see, for example, Nike).\n\nAn important contribution to the critique of consumerism has been made by French philosopher Bernard Stiegler, arguing modern capitalism is governed by consumption rather than production, and the advertising techniques used to create consumer behaviour amount to the destruction of psychic and collective individuation. The diversion of libidinal energy toward the consumption of consumer products, he argues, results in an addictive cycle of consumption, leading to hyper consumption, the exhaustion of desire, and the reign of symbolic misery.\n\nIn art, Banksy, influential British graffiti master, painter, activist, filmmaker and all-purpose provocateur has made statements in public works about the consumerist society. Working undercover, the secretive street artist challenges social ideas and goads viewers into rethinking their surroundings, to acknowledge the absurdities of closely held preconceptions. Quote from Banksy: “You owe the companies nothing. Less than nothing, you especially don’t owe them any courtesy. They owe you. They have re-arranged the world to put themselves in front of you. They never asked for your permission, don’t even start asking for theirs.” After 2003, Banksy wrote the \"New Yorker\" by e-mail: “I give away thousands of paintings for free. I don’t think it’s possible to make art about world poverty and trouser all the cash.” Banksy believes that there is a consumerist shift in art, and for the first time, the bourgeois world of art belongs to the people. On his website, he provides high-resolution images of his work for free downloading.\n\nIn many critical contexts, the term describes the tendency of people to identify strongly with products or services they consume, especially with commercial brand names and obvious status-enhancing appeal, such as a brand of expensive automobiles or jewelry. It is a pejorative term which most people deny, having some more specific excuse or rationalization for consumption other than the idea that they are \"compelled to consume\". A culture that has a high amount of consumerism is referred to as a consumer culture.\n\nTo those who embrace the idea of consumerism, these products are not seen as valuable in themselves, but rather as social signals that allow them to identify like-minded people through consumption and display of similar products. Few would yet go so far, though, as to admit that their relationships with a product or brand name could be substitutes for healthy human relationships that sometimes lack in a dysfunctional modern society.\n\nThe older term \"conspicuous consumption\" described the United States in the 1960s, but was soon linked to larger debates about media influence, culture jamming, and its corollary productivism. \n\nThe term and concept of \"conspicuous consumption\" originated at the turn of the 20th century in the writing of economist Thorstein Veblen. The term describes an apparently irrational and confounding form of economic behaviour. Veblen's scathing proposal that this unnecessary consumption is a form of status display is made in darkly humorous observations like the following:\nIn 1955, economist Victor Lebow stated (as quoted by William Rees, 2009):\nAccording to archaeologists, evidence of conspicuous consumption up to several millennia ago has been found, suggesting that such behavior is inherent to humans.\n\nAnti-consumerists believe advertising plays a huge role in human life by informing values and assumptions of the cultural system, deeming what is acceptable and determining social standards. They declare that ads create a hyper-real world where commodities appear as the key to securing happiness. Anti-consumerists cite studies that find that individuals believe their quality of life improves in relation to social values that lie outside the capability of the market place. Therefore, advertising attempts to equate the social with the material by utilizing images and slogans to link commodities with the real sources of human happiness, such as meaningful relationships. Ads are then a detriment to society because they tell consumers that accumulating more and more possessions will bring them closer to self-actualization, or the concept of a complete and secure being. \"The underlying message is that owning these products will enhance our image and ensure our popularity with others\". And while advertising promises that a product will make the consumer happy, advertising simultaneously depends upon the consumer never being \"truly\" happy, as then the consumer would no longer feel the need to consume needless products.\n\nAnti-consumerists claim that in a consumerist society, advertisement images disempower and objectify the consumer. By stressing individual power, choice and desire, advertising falsely implies the control lies with the consumer. Because anti-consumerists believe commodities only supply short-term gratification, they detract from a sustainably happy society. Further, advertisers have resorted to new techniques of capturing attention, such as the increased speed of ads and product placements. In this way, commercials infiltrate the consumerist society and become an inextricable part of culture. Anti-consumerists condemn advertising because it constructs a simulated world that offers fantastical escapism to consumers, rather than reflecting actual reality. They further argue that ads depict the interests and lifestyles of the elite as natural; cultivating a deep sense of inadequacy among viewers. They denounce use of beautiful models because they glamorize the commodity beyond reach of the average individual.\n\nIn an opinion segment of \"New Scientist\" magazine published in August 2009, reporter Andy Coghlan cited William Rees of the University of British Columbia and epidemiologist Warren Hern of the University of Colorado at Boulder, saying that human beings, despite considering themselves civilized thinkers, are \"subconsciously still driven by an impulse for survival, domination and expansion... an impulse which now finds expression in the idea that inexorable economic growth is the answer to everything, and, given time, will redress all the world's existing inequalities.\" According to figures presented by Rees at the annual meeting of the Ecological Society of America, human society is in a \"global overshoot\", consuming 30% more material than is sustainable from the world's resources. Rees went on to state that at present, 85 countries are exceeding their domestic \"bio-capacities\", and compensate for their lack of local material by depleting the stocks of other countries.\n\nThroughout the ages, various movements have tried to model alternatives to consumerism while remaining in the capitalist society. Intentional communities provide an example of this, as do monastic orders, barter movements and technology-driving sharing or exchange mechanisms. For instance, an intentional community called the Bruderhof has a system of sharing within the community, and no money is used by the members. The Bruderhof runs a successful manufacturing business that allows it to trade in the capitalistic society, but without the members indulging in consumerism.\n\nSuch anti-consumerist, anti-capitalist notions are not without their detractors. New thought and theory has spurred movements to alter world economic climate. Green movements and some other thinkers are opposed to the focus put on economics. The need for terminology has created familiar ideas such as carrying-capacity, and ecological footprint.\n\nDavid Ricardo, an early economist, had ideas that state the finitude of growth, rather than the opposite; his ideas were similar to those of Mark Twain, when he said \"Buy land, they don't make it anymore.\" To Ricardian logic, land was a limiting factor.\n\nSome adherents to the Austrian economic philosophy advocate against consumerism due to its effect of contributing to \"debt slavery.\" Austrian economic advocates focus on the entrepreneur, promoting a productive lifestyle rather than a materialistic one wherein the individual is defined by things and not himself.\n\nMany have accused anti-consumerists of opposing modernity or utilitarianism. Right-wing critics see anti-consumerism as rooted in socialism. In 1999, the right-libertarian magazine \"Reason\" attacked anti-consumerism, claiming Marxist academics are repackaging themselves as anti-consumerists. James B. Twitchell, a professor at the University of Florida and popular writer, referred to anti-consumerist arguments as \"Marxism Lite.\"\n\nThere have also been socialist critics of anti-consumerism who see it as a form of anti-modern \"reactionary socialism\", and state that anti-consumerism has also been adopted by ultra-conservatives and fascists.\n\nIn Fight Club, the protagonist, finds himself participating in terroristic acts against corporate society and consumer culture.\n\nIn Mr. Robot, Elliot Anderson, a young cybersecurity engineer, joins a hacker group known as fsociety, which aims to crash the U.S. economy, eliminating all debt.\n\nIn the novel American Psycho by Bret Easton Ellis, the protagonist Patrick Bateman criticizes the consumerist society of America in the 1980s of which he is a personification. Later on he goes on a killing spree without any consequences, suggesting that the people around him are so self-absorbed and focused on consuming that they either don't see or don't care about his acts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7458487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7458487", "title": "Bait Act", "text": "Bait Act\n\nBait Acts were laws passed in Newfoundland to try to control the sale of bait to French fishermen, and later to Canadian and American fishermen. \n\nIn the 1800s France claimed exclusive rights to fish along the shores of Newfoundland, and to cure the fish on the shores. Newfoundland was a British colony, but Britain had other priorities when negotiating fishing rights, and did little to protect the Newfoundland fishery. \n\nIn 1857 Britain signed an agreement allowing the French jurisdiction over an area of the shoreline where the fish were cured, and giving them the right to run off any vessels that were impeding their fishing activities.\n\nTo minimize this interference in their own fishery, the Newfoundland Assembly introduced the first Bait Act in 1886, making it illegal to sell bait to French fishermen, but Britain refused to give its required agreement until this act was modified in 1887. This Act and subsequent variations did not appreciably curtail the fishing activities of the French, who were able to find alternative supplies. \n\nDuring the 1890s, after Canadian interference led Britain to veto a trade agreement with the United States, Newfoundland tried to use Bait Act provisions to influence and regulate the sale of bait to Canadian fishermen. In the early 20th century, the Bait Act was directed against American fishermen.\n"}
{"id": "25817763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25817763", "title": "Bey Soo Khiang", "text": "Bey Soo Khiang\n\nBey Soo Khiang is a Singaporean business executive and former air force general. He was the third Chief of Defence Force (CDF) of the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF) from 1995–2000 and held the rank of Lieutenant-General. He was also the first CDF to be from the Air Force. Before he became the CDF, he served as the Chief of Air Force. After retiring from the SAF in 2000, Bey joined Singapore Airlines and held high executive positions in the company before leaving in 2011.\n\nBey was awarded the Singapore Armed Forces Overseas Scholarship in 1974. He holds Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts degrees in engineering from the University of Cambridge. He also completed a Master of Public Administration degree at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, and attended the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School.\n\nBey enlisted in the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF) in 1973 and served as the Chief of Air Force before assuming the post of Chief of Defence Force (CDF) on 1 July 1995, replacing Ng Jui Ping. While serving as the Chief of Defence Force, he was also appointed as a member of the board of directors for Singapore Technologies Engineering and Singapore Airlines Limited.\n\nBey retired from the SAF on 1 April 2000 and was succeeded by Lim Chuan Poh as the CDF.\n\nAfter leaving the SAF in 2000, Bey joined Singapore Airlines (SIA) as Executive Vice President Technical and was promoted to Senior EVP Technical & Human Resources two years later. During his time in SIA, he led the project to introduce the Airbus A380 into SIA and also served in the following positions: Chairman of SIA Cargo Pte Ltd; Chairman of Silkair Pte Ltd; Chairman of Singapore Flying College; Board Director of SIA Engineering Company; Virgin Atlantic Limited; Virgin Atlantic Airways Limited; Virgin Travel Group Limited. He is also an active board member in the Sentosa Development Corporation. In early 2010, he assumed the post of Senior Executive Vice President for Marketing & Corporate Services. Bey left SIA on 28 February 2011.\n\nBey was appointed as the Vice-Chairman of RGE Pte Ltd in March 2011.\n"}
{"id": "12911652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12911652", "title": "Board on Science, Technology, and Economic Policy", "text": "Board on Science, Technology, and Economic Policy\n\nThe United States National Academy of Sciences' Board on Science, Technology, and Economic Policy (STEP) is a board of the United States National Academy of Sciences.\n\nThe mandate of the Board is to integrate understanding of scientific, technological, and economic elements in the formulation of national policies affecting the economic well-being of the United States. The program’s focus is on the dynamics of the macroeconomic and microeconomic variables, their relationship to the industrial structure of the economy, effect on high-technology manufacturing and service sectors, and influence on U.S. scientific and technological advancement through examination of trade, human resources, fiscal, research and development, intellectual property and other policies. Policymakers responsible for these areas in the executive branch and Congress are the audience for the STEP Board’s work in the form of consensus reports, conferences, and workshops. The current Executive Director is Stephen A. Merrill, Ph.D. and the Board Chair is Paul Joskow, president of the Sloan Foundation.\n\nThe Academies began to address issues of U.S. competitiveness and innovation in the late 1970s and early 1980s through a series of industry studies by the NAE and broad policy studies by the Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public Policy (COSEPUP).\n\nA leading NAS economist, Dale Jorgenson, and NAE industrialists Ralph Landau and George Hatsopoulos were concerned that this work, and national innovation policy more broadly, did not sufficiently reflect the contributions economics could make to understanding of trends and policy prescriptions to improve outcomes. They proposed to the National Research Council (NRC) Governing Board of Directors of the NAS to create a new standing committee as a forum for dialogue among economists, technologists, and industrial managers to those ends. The Board on Science, Technology, and Economic Policy (STEP) was established in 1991, originally as an independent board with funding from the NRC and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Subsequently, it was combined with COSEPUP and Government-University-Industry Research Roundtable (GUIRR) in the Policy Division, at which time the Academy and Institute presidents were made ex-officio members to make the three units more similar in structure.\n\nIn composing the first slate of members, the Academies added a fourth category of expertise and experience – finance and investment – and took care to ensure that among the members were people with high-level public policy experience. Over the past 16 years the membership has included leading industrialists (Rube Mettler, Don Peterson, Bill Spencer), three Nobel Laureates (Mike Spence, Joe Stiglitz, and Jim Heckman) among many leading microeconomists, prominent venture capitalists (Burton McMurtry, Kathy Behrens, and David Morgenthaler), scientists and engineers from the Academies (George Whitesides and Vint Cerf), former policymakers (James Lynn, Mary Good, and Alan Wolff), and people whose careers have bridged the corporate and nonprofit sectors (Edward Penhoet) or industry and elective politics (Amo Houghton, Jr.). In STEP’s first decade the majority of industrialists represented heavy manufacturing and information technology. In recent years there has been an effort to recruit more senior managers from life science-based industries and services.\n\nNot coincidentally, concern about Japanese competition and fear of a progressive decline in the U.S. manufacturing base was peaking at the time STEP was created. Indeed, the perception that Japan enjoyed a broad and enduring competitive advantage from a substantially lower cost of capital was a motivating factor in establishing the Board and became the subject of its first conference and report. In the late 1990s, of course, pessimism gave way to extreme confidence in the economy, lasting until the dot-com collapse. The contemporary policy environment is again one of concern if not alarm about U.S. economic performance, although vis-à-vis different sources of competition.\n\nIn this fluctuating environment, STEP’s focus has not shifted away from the U.S. position in the global economy. Investing for Productivity and Prosperity was followed by a series of projects examining development of international technical standards and testing certification, technology policy as a source of trade friction among the industrialized countries, tax policy affecting the location of foreign direct investment and R&D performance, evaluation of U.S. and foreign government interventions in support of commercial technology development, and the effects of foreign government conditions on aerospace sales and investment. A major focus since the late 1990s has been on the reasons for the improved competitiveness of many U.S. industries and the resurgence in productivity growth, the extent to which these are accurately measured and reflected in the national economic accounts, and how they can be sustained.\n\nNevertheless, the STEP portfolio has become more diversified, with projects on the economics of K-12 education reform, impact of technology on jobs and wages, supply of IT workers, quality of innovation-related statistics, functioning of the patent system, impact of intellectual property on research, shifts in the federal research portfolio by field, financing of entrepreneurship, prizes as a tool of innovation policy, and aeronautics R&D at NASA. This diversification has been a key to STEP’s success and endurance, but the board is mindful that global competition and its effects on Americans’ employment and welfare remain the principal driver of its agenda. When, as now, public and political concern is ascendant, other institutions and others in the Academy are quickly drawn into this policy arena to compete for many of the same sources of financial support. Within the past 3 or 4 years alone nominally similar programs have been launched at the Council on Foreign Relations, Brookings Institution, Center for Strategic and International Studies, American Association for the Advancement of Science, and Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and spun off from the Progressive Policy Institute.\n\nSince nearly all of STEP’s work is microeconomic, other ways to parse STEP’s portfolio are by industrial sector and by microeconomic policy. On the first dimension, STEP has focused intensively on semiconductors, software, computing (and its component technologies), and biotechnology and given considerable attention also to aviation, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, telecommunications, metal fabrication, and finance. At the same time, STEP has done significant although by no means exhaustive work on the following microeconomic policies – tax, trade, standards, K-12 and graduate education, workforce training, intellectual property, economic statistics, and, of course, direct and indirect research and development support.\n\nAreas that have received little attention to date are agriculture, energy and power, and environmental regulation. Although these are the domains of other standing NRC units that, of course, does not preclude STEP from undertaking projects in those areas tailored to its strengths nor does it preclude collaborations. Discussions have in fact occurred with each of those units (BANR, BEES, and BEST) and led to formal collaborative proposals, but unfortunately those proposals have not attracted sponsors.\n\nEncouraging cross-disciplinary, cross-sector dialogue on issues of competitiveness and innovation was a major theme of the NRC discussions leading to the creation of STEP. The Board itself has sustained this dialogue across many changes in membership notably including the departure recently of the last original member, Dale Jorgenson. Meetings are well attended and members frequently remark on the high caliber of discussion and learning across disciplines and sectors.\n\nSTEP has extended this form of dialogue to the many ad hoc committees under its oversight. Normally, STEP study committees include 2 or 3 STEP members – a testament to the fact that many (perhaps most) projects are conceived in board discussions and members become committed to helping carry them through to fruition. In addition, an effort is made to ensure that study committee rosters recommended to the Division Chair and the President include a mix of expertise and experience similar to that on the board itself – industrial technologists, economists, financial executives, academic scientists, and former policymakers\n\nSTEP has also contributed to dialogue within the NRC. Staff are frequently asked to suggest committee members and other resources for studies in other units. Formal collaborations have involved the Science, Technology, and Law Committee, Committee on National Statistics, Computer Science and Telecommunications Board, Board on Higher Education and the Workforce, Board on Testing and Assessment, National Cancer Policy Board, and Board on Health Care Services (of the National Academies).\n\nSTEP has benefited from and exploited the microeconomic field of technology and productivity analysis that is the fairly recent legacy of Griliches, Jorgenson, Solow, Mansfield, and others as well as the work of international trade economists. But the fact is that in many of the specific policy areas of STEP work – intellectual property, standards, program evaluation, etc. – there is a serious deficit of empirical research. Rather than rely on anecdote and judgment, the Board has when possible taken the step – unusual for the Academy – of supporting small-scale original research projects, often surveys. This was done in studies of the patent system, Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program, Advanced Technology Program (ATP), and biomedical researchers’ experience with intellectual property. In all of these cases, the research results strongly influenced study committees’ findings and recommendations. That, in turn, has encouraged more research. In the case of the patent study, the Board in 2002 issued an RFP, received 80-odd proposals, and selected 9 projects for full or co-funding. This undoubtedly contributed to the subsequent flowering of empirical research on intellectual property systems and policies.\n\nMore typical of the Academy, STEP work has helped shape the agendas of investigators and research sponsors. A prime example is the 2001 workshop, Using Human Resource Data to Track Innovation, whose premise was that studying the qualifications, career paths, and activities of industrial scientists, engineers, and other professionals could reveal a great deal about innovation processes, especially those beyond the R&D stage. The workshop has shaped the subsequent work of Paula Stephan, who was commissioned to write the principal paper for the meeting, and led directly to a series of NSF workshops, other research initiatives, and efforts to improve the utility of data from the NSF surveys of PhD-holders. A community of investigators is exploring ways to match publication and patent data with NSF human resource data. Stephan attributes all of this activity directly to the seminal STEP workshop.\n\nSTEP reports have had a demonstrable impact on public policy discussions and outcomes. Examples include:\n\n\"A Patent System for the 21st Century\" (2004). In April 2004 a STEP committee chaired by Yale President Richard Levin and former Xerox CTO Mark Myers issued a final report of a broad study of how well the U.S. patent system is fulfilling its purpose of encouraging research, innovation, and the dissemination of knowledge and how it is adapting to rapid technological and economic changes. It found that while the system has shown admirable flexibility in accommodating new technologies, there is reason to be concerned about the quality of issued patents, the resources available to the US Patent and Trademark Office to keep up with the pace of technological change and volume of applications, features of U.S. law that inhibit the dissemination of information contained in patents and that raise the cost and uncertainty of litigation over patent validity and infringement, access to patented research technologies for basic non-commercial research, and redundancies and inconsistencies among national patent systems that raise the cost of global intellectual property protection. With dedicated dissemination funds provided by the NRC, a private foundation, and several companies and law firms, a very extensive outreach effort, involving public meetings across the country, was undertaken. The committee co-chairs were lead-off witnesses in Senate and House patent reform hearings in the spring of 2005 and again in 2007. Five of the report’s seven recommendations are core provisions of legislation introduced by the committee chairs in the 109th Congress and expected to be re-introduced in the 110th.\n\n\nIn part through the Board’s outreach efforts and in part because of interest abroad in the contributions of federal and state government policy to U.S. economic performance, there is a growing international audience for STEP’s work, evidenced by the high volume of visits to the website and invitations for presentations to international organizations (e.g., various committees of the OECD, parts of the European Commission, World Intellectual Property Organization, and European Patent Office), and national government officials and international academic gatherings too numerous to list. Originally confined to the industrial countries this interest has extended to the governments of and academics in the emerging economies – China, India, Brazil, Vietnam, and the former Soviet republics.\n\nSTEP has received project support from the OECD, European Commission, Industry Canada, and Embassy of the United Kingdom. A formal collaboration with two of the German economic research institutes yielded two reports, and in 1995 STEP was asked to host an international conference on technology and jobs preparatory to the G-7 Summit meeting.\n\nCongress is a principal consumer of STEP work, and the Board has conducted or is conducting three congressionally mandated projects. A fourth mandate – the ongoing evaluation of 5 agencies’ SBIR programs – followed STEP work on SBIR but has been carried out under separate oversight. Discussion is underway with members of Congress of a major study of the role of intangible assets (R&D, intellectual property, software, worker training, and organizational competence) in economic growth. Nevertheless, what will appear in final legislation or bill report language is always highly uncertain; and agency compliance with congressional study mandates is not assured. STEP has twice negotiated language with congressional sponsors for studies that were eventually included in enacted legislation and developed proposals to the executive agencies directed to contract with the Academies, but the mandates were not executed.\n"}
{"id": "55810082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55810082", "title": "Bodo Schlegelmilch", "text": "Bodo Schlegelmilch\n\nBodo B. Schlegelmilch is Chair of the Association of MBAs (AMBA) and Professor and Chair of the Institute for International Marketing at WU, Vienna University of Economics and Business, Vienna, Austria. He also serves on the Executive Board of the American Chamber of Commerce in Austria and the Board of Trustees at the Academy of Marketing Science. Schlegelmilch has been awarded Fellowships from the Academy of International Business, the Academy of Marketing Science and the Chartered Institute of Marketing.\n\nSchlegelmilch obtained his bachelor's degree at the University of Applied Sciences in Cologne, his master's degree, Ph.D. and D.Litt. from the University of Manchester and an honorary Ph.D. from Thammasat University in Bangkok. He served as founding Dean of the WU Executive Academy at the Vienna University of Economics and Business, and Editor in Chief of the American Marketing Association's \"Journal of International Marketing\".\n\nStarting at Deutsche Bank and Procter & Gamble, he continued his career at the University of Edinburgh and the University of California, Berkeley. Appointments as British Rail Chair of Marketing at the University of Wales and Professor of International Business at Thunderbird School of Global Management followed.\n\nSchlegelmilch has been listed among the world's most prolific authors of international marketing. He has published books on different marketing and management topics, including two widely noted textbooks: \n\n\nHis research spans international marketing strategy, corporate social responsibility and cultural differences and has been published in a variety of academic journals (e.g. Strategic Management Journal, Journal of International Business Studies and Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science).\n"}
{"id": "17571692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17571692", "title": "Burton E. Grossman", "text": "Burton E. Grossman\n\nBurton Edward Grossman (February 15, 1918 - November 12, 1999) was an American-Mexican international businessman, health and education promoter, who served as chairman and CEO of Grupo Continental, a holding company established in Tampico, Tamaulipas, Mexico, in 1964, that owns and operates 46 corporations dealing with soft drinks, sugar refining, mineral water, cooling systems, plastics, and mainly bottling factories for The Coca-Cola Company in Mexico.\n\nGrossman was born in Corpus Christi, Texas. He encouraged the collective benefit, and was one of the main promoters in education in the south of Mexican state Tamaulipas with donations who became a Multipurpose Building on his honor name and San Antonio, Texas. He was also chairman of InterContinental Bank Shares Corporation, and he was member and/or advisor to multiple Boards of Trustees in San Antonio, the Southern United States and in Mexico.\n\nKnown for his great generosity of time and money to the arts, education and medical research, Grossman is credited for making the largest financial gift in the history of UIW, helping build the International Conference Center and the proposed science and energy center while establishing scholarships for business majors and students in financial need. Grossman received the Ohtli Award from the Mexican government in 1998. Grossman died in November 1999.\n"}
{"id": "4977119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4977119", "title": "Carl Hahn", "text": "Carl Hahn\n\nCarl Horst Hahn (born 1 July 1926) is a German businessman and former head of the Volkswagen Group from 1982 to 1993. He served as the chairman of the board of management of the parent company, Volkswagen AG (formerly Volkswagenwerk AG). During his tenure, the group's car production increased from two million units in 1982 to 3.5 million a decade later.\n\nHahn was born in the German state of Saxony and raised near Chemnitz. His father had been a senior manager of the German car and motorcycle company DKW and was a co-founder of the Auto Union in 1932, which later evolved into the Audi car brand. \nAs a college student, he studied business administration at the University of Cologne and the University of Zurich, economics and politics in Great Britain and France. In 1952, Hahn received his doctorate in Economics at the University of Berne in Switzerland. He went to Perugia for a year to study art history, intending to volunteer at Fiat.\n\nBefore joining Volkswagen, he worked as an economist at the OECD in Paris in the der European Productivity Agency.\nIn 1953 Hahn joined VW as an assistant of chairman Heinrich Nordhoff, and quickly became head of sales promotion in VW's export department. Hahn was a favorite of Nordhoff's. \n\nIn 1959, Nordhoff made him president of the company's U.S. subsidiary, Volkswagen of America.Under Hahn's leadership, Volkswagen of America began a national advertising campaign to attract more attention to its quirky Beetle sedan and Microbus wagon. Hahn soon hired the Doyle Dane Bernbach ad agency, which created some of the most memorable car ads in history. Its print and television ads for the Volkswagen brand respected the customer's intelligence, gave detailed information about Volkswagen's products, and made fun of the unorthodox qualities of the cars. The ads became cultural icons as much as the cars did, and Volkswagen enjoyed phenomenal sales in the U.S. in the 1960s and early 1970s. Hahn became a beloved figure in the United States before his return to Germany in 1965, having been affectionately nicknamed \"Mr. Volkswagen\" by VW enthusiasts. While stationed in America, Hahn married Marisa Lea Traina (whose brother later married romance novelist Danielle Steel); their four children were all born in the U.S.\n\nIn 1973, Hahn left VW and returned to Hannover, Germany to lead the German tire company Continental AG.\nIn 1982, he returned to become chairman of Volkswagenwerk AG. Under his leadership, Volkswagen entered a cooperation agreement with the Spanish car brand SEAT in 1982, bought a majority interest in 1986, and by 1990 owned the entire company. \nIn 1985, Hahn was able to push VW's earnings up 140 percent to $225 million based on sales of more than $21 billion, and he was credited for pushing VW beyond the one-car strategy left over from the era of air-cooled Beetles and the early success of the Volkswagen Golf Mk1 in the 1970s. \nThe second-generation edition, introduced in Europe in 1983 and in North America in 1984, was one of the bestselling cars of the 1980s worldwide.\n\nDespite Hahn's earlier success in leading Volkswagen of America, VW sales in the United States dropped during his tenure as VW chairman, from 171,281 units in 1982 to 75,873 in 1992, largely to due intense competition from American and Japanese carmakers, and sales in Canada were hardly better. Another issue in North America was substandard product. Soon after Hahn became chairman of VW, he tested an American Volkswagen Rabbit built at the Volkswagen Westmoreland Assembly Plant, which had opened in 1978, and he was deeply disappointed. \"It felt like a Chevrolet,\" he complained. \"If you want a Chevrolet, you should go to General Motors.\"The car had been re-engineered to drive like an American family sedan, with softer suspension and shock absorbers. Hahn fired Volkswagen of America president James McLernon, a former Chevrolet engineer who had been tapped by VW to get the Westmoreland plant up and running. Hahn brought in new management and kept the Westmoreland factory open to produce the second-generation Golf as a hedge against currency fluctuation between the German mark (DM) and the U.S. dollar, but inefficient production and soft sales in North America caused VW to close the plant in 1988.\n\nAfter the fall of the Iron Curtain in 1991 Volkswagen entered a joint venture with the Czech company Škoda Auto. Hahn's acquisitions made Volkswagen a global force, and affirmed its place as Europe's largest automaker. \nHahn also cleaned up VW's business practices, uncovering an inside foreign exchange fraud, but its $300 million cost to Volkswagen ate into the very profits Hahn had helped the company make.\n\nAlthough Hahn was applauded for making the Volkswagen Golf the most popular car in Europe, and expanding the company through the SEAT and Škoda acquisitions, Volkswagen was in financial trouble by the end of his tenure as chairman, having lost 770 million marks in the eighties surge of the European car market, maintaining a low after-tax profit margin of 2.8 percent. Pre-tax profits went from three billion marks in 1989 to 1.785 billion marks just three years later. Hahn could not keep manufacturing and development costs under control. The Volkswagen board decided that Hahn had been at the helm of Volkswagen too long, and replaced him with Ferdinand Piëch.\n\nFormer Volkswagen of America president Bill Young, in an interview with journalist David Kiley, explained Hahn's record as chairman of VW: \"Dr. Hahn had a lot on his plate in the 1980s, and [VW was] an organization that he was not suited or equipped to turn upside down the way Piech did.\" Automotive journalist David E. Davis offered a mixed review: \"Hahn is a terrific man, and he did a lot of good things for Volkswagen, but he obviously lost interest in the American market by the time he came back in the 1980s based on the lack of attention the American division got.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9767685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9767685", "title": "Chartered Secretaries New Zealand", "text": "Chartered Secretaries New Zealand\n\nChartered Secretaries New Zealand (CSNZ) is the New Zealand division of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators (ICSA International). ICSA International is an international professional body with 44,000 members worldwide. It was founded in England in 1891 and granted its Royal Charter in 1902. The New Zealand Division of the Institute was formed in 1937.\n\nCSNZ has 1,600 members in New Zealand, and was established to promote and maintain the development of the profession of company secretary and the creation of high standards in the Profession. As the commercial and corporate legislative scene in New Zealand changed CSNZ expanded to reflect its members' involvement in such diverse areas as banking, education, government and law.\n\nMembers hold administrative posts in most sectors of the business world. In New Zealand just over half the members are in industry and commerce, a third of them are in the company secretarial field; the remainder are engaged in a wide variety of administrative and management roles. In the public sector a high proportion are in local government. The qualification is widely respected in government service and other public sector organisations.\n\nThere are two classes of membership of the Institute, i.e. Fellows and Associates. All qualified members of the Institute are entitled to describe themselves as Chartered Secretaries and use the designatory letters, FCIS or ACIS as appropriate. Fellowship is the senior grade of membership. Another grade, Grad ICSA comprises those who have successfully completed the examinations but have not yet gained sufficient qualifying service for Associateship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41335103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41335103", "title": "Chung Shui-ming", "text": "Chung Shui-ming\n\nDr. Timpson Chung Shui-ming (鍾瑞明 ,born 23 November 1952) is a Hong Kong businessman and politician.\n\nTimpson Chung Shui-ming is of Hakka ancestry. He studied at the University of Hong Kong and graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree. He later obtained a master's degree in Business Administration from the Chinese University of Hong Kong and received an honorary doctoral degree in Social Science from the City University of Hong Kong in 2010.\n\nHe currently holds the position of the independent non-executive director of the China Construction Bank Corporation, China Everbright Limited, China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited, Glorious Sun Enterprises, Henderson Land Development and Miramar Hotel and Investment.\n\nHe has also held numerous public office positions including chairman of the Hong Kong Housing Society and the Advisory Committee on Art Developments, chairman of the Council of the City University of Hong Kong, vice-chairman of the Land Fund Advisory Committee, member of the Managing Board of the Kowloon-Canton Railway Corporation, a member of the Hong Kong Housing Authority, and a member of the Disaster Relief Fund Advisory Committee.\n\nHe was also member of the first Executive Council of Hong Kong since the transfer of the sovereignty of Hong Kong on 1 July 1997, appointed by the then Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa. He was the member of the Election Committee between 2000 and 2006 and again from 2011, which was responsible for electing the Chief Executive. Besides he is also member of the National Committee of the 11th Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference.\n\nHe was a director-general of the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong, the largest pro-Beijing party in the SAR.\n\nDr. Chung is a fellow member of the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants.\n\nIn 2000, Dr. Chung received the Gold Bauhinia Star for his public services in Hong Kong.\n"}
{"id": "2217004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2217004", "title": "Cost the limit of price", "text": "Cost the limit of price\n\nCost the limit of price was a maxim coined by Josiah Warren, indicating a (prescriptive) version of the labor theory of value. Warren maintained that the just compensation for labor (or for its product) could only be an equivalent amount of labor (or a product embodying an equivalent amount). Thus, profit, rent, and interest were considered unjust economic arrangements. As Samuel Edward Konkin III put it, \"the labor theory of value recognizes no distinction between profit and plunder.\"\n\nIn keeping with the tradition of Adam Smith's \"The Wealth of Nations\", the \"cost\" of labor is considered to be the subjective cost; i.e., the amount of suffering involved in it.\n\nThe principle was set forth in Warren's \"Equitable Commerce\" (among other writings) and has been called a \"mainstay of 19th century individualist anarchism.\" It was further advocated and popularized by Benjamin Tucker in his individualist anarchist periodical \"Liberty\", and in his books. Tucker explained it so:\n\nWarren put his principle into practice in 1827 by establishing an experimental \"equity store,\" called the Cincinnati Time Store, where trade was facilitated by notes backed by a promise to perform labor. This scheme was exactly that advocated by Pierre Proudhon some years later under the name \"mutuellisme\"; however, it is believed that Proudhon developed his ideas independently.\n\n"}
{"id": "18707917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18707917", "title": "Customer lifecycle management", "text": "Customer lifecycle management\n\nCustomer lifecycle management or CLM is the measurement of multiple customer-related metrics, which, when analyzed for a period of time, indicate performance of a business. The overall scope of the CLM implementation process encompasses all domains or departments of an organization, which generally brings all sources of static and dynamic data, marketing processes, and value added services to a unified decision supporting platform through iterative phases of customer acquisition, retention, cross and up-selling, and lapsed customer win-back.\n\nSome detailed CLM models further breakdown these phases into acquisition, introduction to products, profiling of customers, growth of customer base, cultivation of loyalty among customers, and termination of customer relationship.\n\nAccording to a DM Review magazine article by Claudia Imhoff, et al., \"The purpose of the customer life cycle is to define and communicate the stages through which a customer progresses when considering, purchasing and using products, and the associated business processes a company uses to move the customer through the customer life cycle.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12346315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12346315", "title": "Downtown San Antonio", "text": "Downtown San Antonio\n\nDowntown San Antonio is the central business district of San Antonio, Texas, United States. It also serves as the urban core of Greater San Antonio, a metropolitan area with nearly 2.5 million people.\nIn addition to being encircled by Loops 1604 and 410, Downtown San Antonio is encircled by three Interstate freeways: I-35, I-37, and I-10. Together, the three highways create a rectangular route around the city's urban core: I-35 to the north and west, I-37 to the east, and I-10 to the south. The rectangular loop has a nine-mile circumference and is known as the \"Downtown Loop\" or \"Central Loop\", which encompasses both it and Southtown.\n\nDowntown is home to many districts including the Alamo District, Alamodome District, Central Business District, Convention Center District, Historic Civic District, Houston Street District, Lavaca District, La Villita District, Market Square District, North Downtown, River North District, Zona cultural, San Antonio CO-OP district, River Bend District, King William Historic District, South Flores Warehouse District, SoSo (South of Southtown), Southtown Arts District, Eastbourough, and the University District. The northwestern corner of Downtown is the Medical District.\n\nThe Central Business District is home to the Rivercenter, anchored by a Macy's, an IMAX theater, an H&M, and formerly Dillard's. The five-level Art Deco Dillard's, at the corner of Alamo and Commerce streets, opened in 1887 as Joske's. Joske's flagship store was in floor space until Dillard's bought the Joske's chain in 1987. In August 2008, Dillard's moved out of the historic building as a part of a redevelopment plan for Rivercenter Mall. The Rivercenter Mall was built around St. Joseph Catholic Church after the church refused to move.\n\nMany people travel to visit the Alamo Plaza Historic District, which houses the famous Alamo. Attractions such as the river walk are home to many of the festivities throughout the year including NIOSA A Night in Old San Antonio which celebrates Fiesta, Cinco de Mayo, and numerous parades such as celebrations for their home NBA team the Spurs, Christmas parades and much more.\n\nIn the southeastern part of Downtown is the Alamodome, a 65,000-seat arena that hosts many types of events, primarily conventions and football games.\n\nWhile many companies based in San Antonio are based in other parts of the city, particularly the Northwest Side and Uptown, there are companies based in Downtown San Antonio, such as H-E-B, Eye Care Centers of America, Bromley Originate Change, and Kell Muñoz Architects.\n\nThe San Antonio Police Department (SAPD) serves Downtown from the Central Substation. The main SAPD headquarters are in Downtown.\n\nThe San Antonio Fire Department (SAFD), the city's fire protection and EMS service, is also based in Downtown.\n\nThe Texas Fourth Court of Appeals is located in the Cadena-Reeves Justice Center in Downtown San Antonio.\n\nThe San Antonio Post Office and Courthouse, located at 615 East Houston Street, functions as a United States Postal Service post office and as a regional office for federal agencies. In 2009, $61 million were allocated to renovate the Post Office and Courthouse as a part of federal stimulus spending. The six story, neoclassical, Beaux-Arts building opened in 1937.\n\nThe Consulate-General of Mexico in San Antonio is located at 127 Navarro Street in Downtown.\n\nGreyhound Lines operates the San Antonio Station at 500 North St. Marys Street.\n\nVIA Metropolitan Transit operates an Information Center at 211 W. Commerce Street, its Main Executive Office, called The Grand, at 123 N. Medina Street, Ellis Alley Park & Ride, and Centro Plaza, the company's main transit facility, which is located across from the Grand. Both Centro Plaza and The Grand are located in the Cattleman Square District of Downtown.\n\nAmtrak operates a train station in St. Paul's Square.\n\nSince Downtown is located at the City's geographical center, Interstate Highways 10, 35, and 37 combine to form a Downtown Circulator, which completely surrounds Downtown San Antonio. IH35 borders Downtown S.A. to the north and west, IH10 to the south and west (overlaps with IH35), and IH37 along the east end.\n\nDowntown is within the San Antonio Independent School District, which is headquartered in there.\n\nAustin Academy, a PreK-8 school, is northwest of Downtown and serves parts of northern Downtown. Bonham Elementary School, an elementary school which will become PreK-8 by 2009, is south of Downtown and serves southern Downtown. Bowden Elementary School, east of Downtown, serves parts of northern Downtown.\n\nMiddle schools serving sections of Downtown include Tafolla, Twain, and Wheatley.\n\nNorthern Downtown is in the attendance zone of Fox Tech High School in Downtown, while southern parts are zoned to Brackenridge High School, south of Downtown. Navarro High School, a magnet school, is adjacent to Downtown.\n\nThe University of Texas at San Antonio has both its Downtown and HemisFair Park campuses in the downtown area.\n\nTrinity University is a private, primarily undergraduate, liberal arts college in midtown San Antonio, approximately five miles due north of downtown.\n\nThe six-story Central Library, a branch of the San Antonio Public Library (SAPL) system, is located at 600 Soledad Street. SAPL also operates a library portal located at the Briscoe Western Art Museum on Market Street. BiblioTech digital public library has a satellite branch at the Bexar County Courthouse in the Central Jury Room.\n\nThe Alamo Mission in San Antonio (\"the Alamo\"), located in Downtown, is Texas' top tourist attraction. Because of the mission, San Antonio is often called the \"Alamo City\".\n\nThe River Walk, which meanders through the Downtown area, is the city's second-most-visited attraction. It was one of the first restorations of an urban river. Lined with numerous shops, bars, and restaurants, as well as the Arneson River Theater, this attraction is transformed into an impressive festival of lights during the Christmas and New Year holiday period, and is suffused with the local sounds of folklorico and flamenco music during the summer, particularly during celebrations such as the Fiesta Noche del Rio. Also based along the River Walk is the newly restored Aztec On The River, the only surviving exotic-themed movie palace in Texas.\n\nThe Downtown Area also features Cathedral of San Fernando, The Majestic Theatre, HemisFair Park (home of the Tower of the Americas, and UTSA's Institute of Texan Cultures), Pearl, La Villita, Market Square, the Spanish Governor's Palace, and the historic Menger Hotel. On the northern side of the Alamo complex, beside the Emily Morgan Hotel, is the San Antonio Cavalry Museum, which features cavalry artifacts and exhibits and is frequented by local re-enactors.\n\nThe Fairmount Hotel, built in 1906 and San Antonio's second oldest hotel, is in the \"Guinness World Records\" as one of the heaviest buildings ever moved intact. It was placed in its new location, three blocks south of the Alamo, over four days in 1985, and cost $650,000 to move.\nNot far from the city center there are many local theaters like the overtime theatre.\n\nDowntown San Antonio is seeing an uptick of outdoor tourism attractions. With the opening of the Mission Reach section of the River Walk, new recreational tourism businesses such as Mission Bike Tour and Mission Kayak opened up to give tourists a new visiting experience. Visitors can now do activities such as kayaking the San Antonio river and bicycling to the World Heritage Missions.\n\n"}
{"id": "11376530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11376530", "title": "Elsie Naumburg", "text": "Elsie Naumburg\n\nElsie Margaret Binger Naumburg (July 7, 1880 – November 25, 1953) was an American ornithologist.\n\nNaumburg was born to a Jewish family in New York City, the daughter of Frances (née Newgass) and Gustav Binger. She had three brothers: Robert Binger, Walter D. Binger, and Carl Binger. She studied at the Sachs Institute at the University of Frankfurt and at the University of Munich, and studied with Carl Edward Hellmayr for several years. On returning to the United States she joined the staff of the Bird Department at the American Museum of Natural History, under Frank Chapman. She specialised in South American birds.\n\nNaumburg’s most important work was on the birds of the Matto Grosso, based on collections made by George Kruck Cherrie during Theodore Roosevelt's expedition to Brazil. She later employed Emil Kaempfer to collect birds in southeastern Brazil.\n\nNaumburg married Victor Reichenberger in 1908, and some of her early publications were under that name. Reichenberger died in 1913, and she married Walter W. Naumburg in 1923.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7849040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7849040", "title": "Fernando Zevallos", "text": "Fernando Zevallos\n\nFernando Melciades Zevallos González, also known as Fernando Melciades Zevallos Gonzáles, is the founder and owner of what was Peru's largest airline, Aero Continente. The airline operated from 1992 until 2004, but was forced to close that year after Mr Zevallos was added to America's list of drug kingpins and was Aero Continente placed on a blacklist of companies with links to drug traffickers. The moves prevented American companies from doing business with the airline. This meant that Aero Continente could neither buy spare parts for its US-built planes nor insure them. It quickly collapsed.\n\nZevallos was born on July 8, 1957 in Mariscal Cáceres Province, San Martín Region, Perú. He graduated from the Peruvian Air Force Academy, becoming a pilot. In 1976 and following his father's death, he retired from the Air Force to look after his father's estate. He had inherited a considerable amount of money.\n\nIn 1978, the Peruvian government began a campaign of tax incentives for companies that invested in the Peruvian jungle. The Zevallos family decided to incorporate an air taxi company called \"TAUSA\", with the aim of offering aerial services to the villages of the Peruvian jungle which were not served by suitable terrestrial transport. The company was not successful and Zevallos emigrated to the United States.\n\nDuring this period, he founded a new company, Aero Continente. At the end of 1994, he settled in the USA permanently, prompting him to give up his shares of the company. He quit the board of Aero Continente in January 1995, later becoming an advisor.\n\nAero Continente grew to become one of Peru's leading airlines. But on the eve of 2004's Copa America in Peru, Aero Continente was grounded. Persistent allegations of money-laundering and drug-trafficking had dogged the company for years. At this point, the US authorities added Zavallos to their list of drug kingpins. Unable to secure insurance for his fleet, Aero Continente was grounded.\n\nFernando Zevallos has been the subject of more than 30 investigations according to the US Drug Enforcement Administration, although none of these have led to any criminal charges. On 2004 he was put on the US's list of drug kingpins under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act, labeling him one of the top drug-traffickers in the world. Terry Parham, director of the US Drug Enforcement Administration's Lima office, went on record as describing Zevallos as the \"Al Capone of Perú\".\n\nThe founder of Aero Continente has denied any connection with drug trafficking and has demanded that the United States government show proof of such accusations. Neither Aero Continente nor its founder Zevallos were ever tried or found guilty of these accusations prior to their addition to the list. Zevallos has been a Permanent legal resident of the United States for over 15 years and was quoted as calling his inclusion to The Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act \"unconstitutional\" since he was denied his right to due process.\n\nIn his home country, Zevallos had faced charges of contract murder, cocaine trafficking and money laundering, but had never been convicted of any such allegation. In November 2005, a Peruvian court found him guilty of drugs-trafficking offenses. He was sentenced to 20 years in jail and barred from holding public office. This was his only conviction, and he was convicted over a year following his inclusion to the controversial Kingpin Act. Zevallos's attorney claims that due to the tremendous pressure of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and the Bush administration, a conviction in Peru was just a matter of time. Zevallos' defense appeal is still pending, due to be heard by Peru's Supreme Court. Zevallos has also filed a complaint to the Inter-American Court of Human Rights.\n\nIn November 2006, accusations emerged to suggest Zevallos had deep links with Peru's disgraced former spy-chief, Vladimiro Montesinos. The accusations were made by convicted drug dealer Jorge \"Polaco\" Chavez Montoya. Both Zevallos and Montesinos have denied any links.\n\nIn July 2007 he was indicted for allegedly conspiring to violate the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act. \n\nOn September 2007 a request, on behalf of Fernando Zevallos, was made to the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Florida, requesting that he be extradited to the United States of America to face charges. Peru and the United States have an extradition treaty that allows the extradition of individuals for a specific short period, while facing trial or even after conviction. The request was denied, but Zevallos’ defense has requested his extradition to the United States again in January 2009. The results are still pending.\n\n"}
{"id": "27091466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27091466", "title": "Firstsource", "text": "Firstsource\n\nFirstsource Solutions Limited is a provider of business process outsourcing services headquartered in Mumbai, India. It is owned by RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group. Firstsource provides customized business process management to customers in the banking and financial services, customer services, telecom and media, and healthcare sectors. Its clients include Fortune 500 financial services, telecommunications and healthcare companies. Firstsource has operations in India, US, Ireland, UK, and Philippines.\n\nFirstsource started its operations in 2001 as ICICI InfoTech Upstream Ltd, a business process outsourcing organisation wholly owned by ICICI Bank, India’s largest private financial services organisation. Its name was changed to Firstsource Solutions Limited in 2006 and in 2007 became a public company listed on the Indian Stock Exchange. Through organic growth and acquisitions alike, it has established itself in the Telecom & Media, Banking & Financial Services, Insurance and Healthcare (Payer and Provider) industry verticals. Currently it delivers Customer Management, Transaction Processing and Collections Management services from centers in the UK, US, Philippines, India and Sri Lanka.\n\nFirstsource is a part of the RP Sanjiv Goenka group, a £1.21 billion conglomerate. All Firstsource group entities operate independently and the accounts are consolidated at a group level. The RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group owns close to 56% shares of Firstsource through a subsidiary.\n\nFirstsource made a public offer in February 2007 and was listed on the National Stock Exchange (NSE) and Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) in India on February 22, 2007. The public issue was for 69,300,000 equity Shares of Rs.10 each for cash at a price of Rs.64 per equity share (which includes a share premium of Rs.54 per equity share), aggregating Rs. 4,435.2 million. The issue has received 358,329 applications for 3,417,911,555 equity shares, resulting in 49.32 times subscription.\n\nMajor shareholders in Firstsource include Spen Liq Private Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of CESC Limited (55.54%), ICICI Bank Limited (4.76%), Rakesh Jhunjhunwala (3.49%), Steinberg India Emerging Opportunities Fund Limited (1.75%), Goldman Sachs India Fund Limited (2.75%), and Remaining 31.71% of shareholding is widely held among Financial Institutions, Public and Mutual Funds.\n\nFirstsource operates in various geographies through its overseas subsidiaries and branch offices. As of March 2015, the company had 12 subsidiaries. The below list includes parent, sister, holding and associated company relationships, joint ventures and other affiliated companies.\n\n\n\nFirstsource further expanded with the acquisition of ISGN in 2016. ISGN is a leading provider of end-to-end technology solutions and services to the U.S. mortgage industry. The BPO division provides Origination, Servicing, Title and Valuation Services to many banks and non-bank lenders in the US. The division employs over 700 employees working out of 2 locations in the US and 1 location in India who have now become a part of the Firstsource group.\n\nFirstsource recent products include:\n\n\nDuring FY15-16, the Company spent an amount of ₹26.29 million, being 2% of the average net profits of the Company for the last 3 years on CSR activities as mentioned in Firstsource’s CSR Policy. Out of the said amount, the majority of the amount has been contributed by Firstsource towards the corpus of the CSR Trust, to be spent by the CSR Trust on the focus areas as mentioned in the Firstsource CSR policy. Besides the focus areas of engagement, Firstsource and its subsidiaries also voluntarily undertake various CSR activities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "172717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172717", "title": "Fortune (magazine)", "text": "Fortune (magazine)\n\nFortune is an American multinational business magazine headquartered in New York City, United States. It is published and owned by Meredith Corporation. The publication was founded by Henry Luce in 1929. The magazine competes with \"Forbes\" and \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" in the national business magazine category and distinguishes itself with long, in-depth feature articles. The magazine regularly publishes ranked lists, perhaps best known is the Fortune 500, a ranking of companies by revenue that it has published annually since 1955.\n\n\"Fortune\" was founded by \"Time\" co-founder Henry Luce in 1929 as \"the Ideal Super-Class Magazine\", a \"distinguished and de luxe\" publication \"vividly portraying, interpreting and recording the Industrial Civilization\". Briton Hadden, Luce's business partner, was not enthusiastic about the idea – which Luce originally thought to title \"Power\" – but Luce went forward with it after Hadden's sudden death on February 27, 1929.\n\nIn late October 1929, the Wall Street Crash of 1929 occurred, marking the onset of the Great Depression. In a memo to the Time Inc. board in November 1929, Luce wrote: \"We will not be over-optimistic. We will recognize that this business slump may last as long as an entire year.\" The publication made its official debut in February 1930. Its editor was Luce, managing editor Parker Lloyd-Smith, and art director Thomas Maitland Cleland.\nSingle copies of the first issue cost US$1 ($ in ). An urban legend says that Cleland mocked up the cover of the first issue with the $1 price because no one had yet decided how much to charge; the magazine was printed before anyone realized it, and when people saw it for sale, they thought that the magazine must really have worthwhile content. In fact, there were 30,000 subscribers who had already signed up to receive that initial 184-page issue. By 1937, the number of subscribers had grown to 460,000, and the magazine had turned half million dollars in annual profit.\n\nAt a time when business publications were little more than numbers and statistics printed in black and white, \"Fortune\" was an oversized 11\"×14\", using creamy heavy paper, and art on a cover printed by a special process. \"Fortune\" was also noted for its photography, featuring the work of Margaret Bourke-White, Ansel Adams, and others. Walker Evans served as its photography editor from 1945 to 1965.\n\nDuring the Great Depression, the magazine developed a reputation for its social conscience, for Walker Evans and Margaret Bourke-White's color photographs, and for a team of writers including James Agee, Archibald MacLeish, John Kenneth Galbraith, and Alfred Kazin, hired specifically for their writing abilities. The magazine became an important leg of Luce's media empire; after the successful launch of \"Time\" in 1923 and \"Fortune\" in 1930, Luce went on to launch \"Life\" in 1936 and \"Sports Illustrated\" in 1954.\n\nFrom its launch in 1930 to 1978, \"Fortune\" was published monthly. In January 1978, it began publishing biweekly. In October 2009, citing declining advertising revenue and circulation, \"Fortune\" began publishing every three weeks. Currently \"Fortune\" is published 14 times a year. \n\nMarshall Loeb was named managing editor in 1986. During his tenure at \"Fortune\", Loeb was credited with expanding the traditional focus on business and the economy with added graphs, charts, and tables, as well as the addition of articles on topics such as executive life and social issues connected to the world of business, including the effectiveness of public schools and on homelessness.\n\nDuring the years when Time Warner owned Time Inc., \"Fortune\" articles (as well as those from \"Money\" magazine) were hosted at CNNMoney.com.\n\nIn June 2014, after Time Inc. spun off from its corporate parent, \"Fortune\" launched its own website at Fortune.com.\n\nOn November 26, 2017, it was announced that Meredith Corporation would acquire Time Inc. in a $2.8 billion deal. The acquisition was completed on January 31, 2018.\n\nOn November 9, 2018, it was announced that Meredith Corporation was selling \"Fortune\" to Thai billionaire Chatchaval Jiaravanon for $150 million. Jiaravanon is affiliated with the Thailand-based conglomerate Charoen Pokphand Group, which has holdings in agriculture, telecommunications, retail, pharmaceutical, and finance.\n\n\"Fortune\" regularly publishes ranked lists. In the human resources field, for example, it publishes a list of the Best Companies to Work For. Lists include companies ranked in order of gross revenue and business profile, as well as business leaders:\n\nThere have been 17 top editors since \"Fortune\" was conceived in 1929. Following the elimination of the editor-in-chief role at Time Inc. in October 2013, the top editor's title was changed from \"managing editor\" to \"editor\" in 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22498324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22498324", "title": "George S. and Dolores Doré Eccles Foundation", "text": "George S. and Dolores Doré Eccles Foundation\n\nThe George S. and Dolores Doré Eccles Foundation is a non-profit foundation located in Salt Lake City, Utah that gives grants for projects and programs throughout Utah in the following areas: arts and culture, community, education, health care, and preservation and conservation.\n\nThe foundation was founded in 1960 by George S. Eccles and his wife Dolores Doré Eccles.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14145862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14145862", "title": "Gerard Tellis", "text": "Gerard Tellis\n\nGerard J. Tellis is professor of marketing, Neely Chair of American Enterprise, and director of the Center for Global Innovation at the Marshall School of Business, the University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California.\n\nHe holds a bachelor's degree in chemistry from the University of Bombay, a postgraduate diploma in Business Management from Xavier Labor Relations Institute in Jamshedpur, India, and a Ph.D. from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.\n\nHe has been visiting chair of marketing, strategy, and innovation at the Judge Business School, Cambridge University, UK, distinguished visitor, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, and sales development manager for Johnson & Johnson. Tellis specializes in the areas of global innovation, market entry, new product growth, advertising, promotion, and pricing. He has published widely on these topics in many journals, including the \"Journal of Marketing\", \"Journal of Marketing Research\", \"Journal of Advertising Research\", \"Marketing Science\" and \"Sloan Management Review\". His research on advertising has been noted in the professional and popular press, both nationally and internationally. He has won several awards for his research and teaching. In particular, he has twice won the Maynard Award for most significant contribution to marketing thought in the \"Journal of Marketing\", the Odell Award for best paper in the \"Journal of Marketing Research\", and the Bass Award for best paper in \"Marketing Science\". His recent book, \"Will and Vision: How Latecomers Grow to Dominate Markets\", (co-authored with Peter Golder), was rated by \"Harvard Business Review\" as one of the best business books of 2001. He is on the editorial review board of the \"Journal of Marketing Research\".\n\n\n\n\nTellis has been on the editorial review boards of the \"Journal of Marketing Research\", \"Journal of Marketing\" and \"Marketing Science\" for several years.\n\n"}
{"id": "35309423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35309423", "title": "Göran J. Ehrnrooth", "text": "Göran J. Ehrnrooth\n\nClas Göran Jakob Ehrnrooth (born 12 January 1934 in Helsinki), titled \"Vuorineuvos\" \"[sv: Bergsråd]\" was Fiskars Oy CEO in 1969–1983. The Member of Boards in Virala Oy 1977- and Wärtsilä 1992.\n\nFiskars is founded in 1649 and is the oldest company in Finland. Company includes Fiskars (scissors, gardening tools), Iittala (glassware), Gerber (knives), and share in Wärtsilä Oyj Abp in 2011 with 15.1% of Wärtsilä’s shares and votesand Arabia, BodaNova (Sweden), Fiskarsin Ruukki, Hackman, Höganäs Keramik, Buster (boats), Høyang-Polaris (Norway) and Rörstrand.\n\nAlexander Ehrnrooth, Paul Ehrnrooth and Louise Fromond were members of the Fiskars Board of Directors in 2011.\n\nHis parents were Göran Ehrnrooth (1905–1996), a bank manager and Louise von Julin, daughter of Jacob von Julin (1906–1987), the CEO of Kaukas paper factory. His siblings are Casimir Ehrnrooth (born 1931), Robert Ehrnrooth \n(1939) and Elsa Margaretha Louise (Fromond) (born 1942).\n\nHe has two children, Alexander (born 1974), and Albert (born 1976).\n"}
{"id": "298554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298554", "title": "Hacienda", "text": "Hacienda\n\nA hacienda ( or ; or ), in the colonies of the Spanish Empire, is an estate, similar in form to a Roman villa. Some haciendas were plantations, mines or factories. Many haciendas combined these activities. The word is derived from the Spanish word \"hacer\" or \"haciendo\", which means: to make or be making, respectively; and were largely business enterprises consisting of various money making ventures including raising farm animals and maintaining orchards.\n\nThe term \"hacienda\" is imprecise, but usually refers to landed estates of significant size. Smaller holdings were termed estancias or ranchos that were owned almost exclusively by Spaniards and criollos and in rare cases by mixed-race individuals. In Argentina, the term estancia is used for large estates that in Mexico would be termed haciendas. In recent decades, the term has been used in the United States to refer to an architectural style associated with the earlier estate manor houses.\n\nThe hacienda system of Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, El Salvador, Mexico, New Granada, and Peru was a system of large land holdings. A similar system existed on a smaller scale in the Philippines and Puerto Rico.\n\nHaciendas were developed as profit-making, economic enterprises linked to regional or international markets. Although the hacienda is not directly linked to the early grants of indigenous American labor, the encomienda, many Spanish holders of encomiendas did acquire land or develop enterprises where they had access to that forced labor. Even though the private landed estates that constituted most haciendas did not have a direct tie to the encomienda, they are nonetheless linked. Encomenderos were in a position to retain their prominence economically via the hacienda. Since the encomienda was a grant from the crown, holders were dependent on the crown for its continuation. As the crown moved to eliminate the encomienda with its labor supply, Spaniards consolidated private landholdings and recruited free labor on a permanent or casual basis. The long term trend then was the creation of the hacienda as secure private property, which survived the colonial period and into the 20th century. Estates were integrated into a market-based economy aimed at the Hispanic sector and cultivated crops such as sugar, wheat, fruits and vegetables and produced animal products such as meat, wool, leather, and tallow.\nHaciendas originated in Spanish land grants, made to many \"conquistadors\" and crown officials, but many ordinary Spaniards could also petition for land grants from the crown. The system is considered to have started in present-day Mexico, when the Spanish Crown granted to Hernán Cortés the title of Marquis of the Valley of Oaxaca in 1529. It gave him a tract of land that included all of the present state of Morelos. Cortés was also granted encomiendas, that gave him access to a vast pool of indigenous labor.\n\nIn Spanish America, the owner of an hacienda was called the \"hacendado\" or \"patrón\". Most owners of large and profitable haciendas preferred to live in Spanish cities, often near the hacienda, but in Mexico, the richest owners lived in Mexico City, visiting their haciendas at intervals. Onsite management of the rural estates was by a paid administrator or manager, which was similar to the arrangement with the encomienda. Administrators were often hired for a fixed term of employment, receiving a salary and at times some share of the profits of the estate. Some administrators also acquired landholdings themselves in the area of the estate they were managing.\n\nThe work force on haciendas varied, depending on the type of hacienda and where it was located. In central Mexico near indigenous communities and growing crops to supply urban markets, there was often a small, permanent workforce resident on the hacienda. Labor could be recruited from nearby indigenous communities on an as-needed basis, such as planting and harvest time. The permanent and temporary hacienda employees worked land that belonged to the \"patrón\" and under the supervision of local labor bosses. In some places small scale cultivators or \"campesinos\" worked small holdings belonging to the hacendado, and owed a portion of their crops to him. In a number of places, the economy of the 18th century was largely a barter system, with little specie circulated on the \"hacienda\".\n\nStock raising was central to ranching haciendas, the largest of which were in areas without dense indigenous populations, such as northern Mexico, but as indigenous populations declined in central areas, more land became available for grazing. Livestock were animals originally imported from Spain, including cattle, horses, sheep, and goats were part of the Columbian Exchange and produced significant ecological changes. Sheep in particular had a devastating impact on the environment due to overgrazing. Mounted ranch hands variously called \"vaqueros\" and \"gauchos\" (in the Southern Cone), among other terms worked for pastoral haciendas.\n\nWhere the hacienda included working mines, as in Mexico, the \"patrón\" might gain immense wealth. The unusually large and profitable Jesuit \"hacienda\" Santa Lucía, near Mexico City, established in 1576 and lasting to the expulsion in 1767, has been reconstructed by Herman Konrad from archival sources. This reconstruction has revealed the nature and operation of the hacienda system in Mexico, its labor force, its systems of land tenure and its relationship to larger Hispanic society in Mexico.\nThe Catholic Church and orders, especially the Jesuits, acquired vast \"hacienda\" holdings or preferentially loaned money to the hacendados. As the hacienda owners' mortgage holders, the Church's interests were connected with the landholding class. In the history of Mexico and other Latin American countries, the masses developed some hostility to the church; at times of gaining independence or during certain political movements, the people confiscated the church haciendas or restricted them.\n\nHaciendas in the Caribbean were developed primarily as sugar plantations, dependent on the labor of African slaves imported to the region. were staffed by slaves brought from Africa. In Puerto Rico, this system ended with the abolition of slavery on 22 March 1873.\n\nIn South America, the \"hacienda\" remained after the collapse of the colonial system in the early 19th century when nations gained independence. In some places, such as Dominican Republic, with independence came efforts to break up the large plantation holdings into a myriad of small subsistence farmers' holdings, an agrarian revolution. In Argentina and elsewhere, a second, international, money-based economy developed independently of the \"haciendas\", which sank into rural poverty.\nIn most of Latin America the old holdings remained. In Mexico the \"haciendas\" were abolished by law in 1917 during the revolution, but remnants of the system affect Mexico today. In rural areas, the wealthiest people typically affect the style of the old hacendados even though their wealth these days derives from more capitalistic enterprises.\n\nIn Bolivia, haciendas were more prevalent until the 1952 Revolution of Víctor Paz Estenssoro. He established an extensive program of land distribution as part of the Agrarian Reform. Likewise, Peru had haciendas until the Agrarian Reform (1969) of Juan Velasco Alvarado, who expropriated the land from the hacendados and redistributed it to the peasants.\n\nIn the Philippines, the hacienda system and lifestyles were influenced by the Spanish colonization that occurred via Mexico for more than 300 years. Attempts to break up the hacienda system in the Philippines through land reform laws during the second half of the 1900s have not been successful. There were protests related to the Hacienda Luisita.\n\nHaciendas in Puerto Rico developed during the time of Spanish colonization. An example of these was the 1833 Hacienda Buena Vista, which dealt primarily with the cultivation, packaging, and exportation of coffee. Today, Hacienda Buena Vista, which is listed in the United States National Register of Historic Places, is operated as a museum.\n\nThe 1861 Hacienda Mercedita was a sugar plantation that once produced, packaged and sold sugar in the \"Snow White\" brand name. In the late 19th century, Mercedita became the site of production of Don Q rum. Its profitable rum business is today called Destilería Serrallés. The last of such haciendas decayed considerably starting in the 1950s, with the industrialization of Puerto Rico via \"Operation Bootstrap\". At the turn of the 20th century, most coffee haciendas had disappeared.\n\nThe sugar-based haciendas changed into \"centrales azucares.\" Yet by the 1990s, and despite significant government fiscal support, the last 13 Puerto Rican \"centrales azucares\" were forced to shut down. This marked the end of haciendas operating in Puerto Rico. In 2000, the last two sugar mills closed, after having operated for nearly 100 years.\n\nIn the present era, the ' is the government department in Spain that deals with finance and taxation, as in Mexico ', and which is equivalent to the Department of the Treasury in the United States or HM Treasury in the United Kingdom.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6688743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6688743", "title": "HeadBlade", "text": "HeadBlade\n\nHeadBlade is a head shaving razor brand produced by The HeadBlade Company. Founded by Todd Greene, a 1989 graduate of Bowdoin College, HeadBlade is headquartered in Gardena, California.\n\nHeadBlade’s first commercial product was the HeadBlade Classic, introduced in 1999. The unorthodox design of the Classic was made as a response to the difficulties of head shaving with a regular razor.\n\nThe HeadBlade Classic went on to win the IDSA Silver Award for Design Excellence, as well as a spot in Time Magazine’s “Ten Best Designs of 2000.” In 2005, the Classic was also added to the Permanent Collection at the Museum of Modern Art.\n\nAs the company began to grow, HeadBlade expanded into a variety of hair care products, including HeadSlick, a specially designed shaving cream, HeadShed Scrub, an exfoliating solution and HeadLube, a scalp moisturizing lotion. Greene also continued improving on the design of his original product.\n\nIn 2006, seven years after first introducing the Classic, HeadBlade released the HeadBlade Sport. The Sport kept the same general shape and function as the classic, but added an improved rubber grip to the finger ring and upper pad. Inspired by sport car design, it also added hardened rubber wheels and an improved axel to increase the mobility of the razor. \n\nIn 2012, HeadBlade came out with the HeadBlade ATX. With a design inspired by an all terrain vehicle, the ATX changed the position of the blade to the back of the razor, encouraging action by “pulling” the blade along the head rather than “pushing” it. This was done in order to reduce the learning curve for people who were accustomed to regular razors.\n\nThe latest HeadBlade model is the HeadBlade MOTO, which was released in late 2016. The MOTO was awarded a Red Dot Design Award in 2017 for it’s industrial design and it’s ease of use. \n\n\"GQ\" magazine named Todd Greene to the 2010 Bald 100.\n\n"}
{"id": "39490173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39490173", "title": "Hoo Ah Kay", "text": "Hoo Ah Kay\n\nHoo Ah Kay (; 1816 - 27 March 1880), , better known as Whampoa (), was a Singaporean businessman and community leader. An immigrant to Singapore from China, he held many high-ranking posts in Singapore, including honourable consul to Japan, Russia and China.\n\nHoo Ah Kay (Hu Hsuan-tse) was born 1816, in Whampoa, near Canton (now known as Huangpu district, Guangzhou city) in China. He immigrated to Singapore in 1830. Initially working with his businessman father at food supplier Whampoa and Co., Hoo inherited the establishment after his father died.\n\nHoo received the honorific \"Mr. Whampoa\" for his political achievements and contributions to the Singaporean society. He is cited as both \"the first Japanese honorable consul in Singapore\" and \"the first Chinese consul [in Singapore]\", two posts he was given in 1879 and 1877 respectively. \n\nIn 1859, Hoo played a key role in establishing the Singapore Botanic Gardens (now a UNESCO World Heritage Site). In 1869, he was announced as the first Legislative Council member of Chinese ethnicity by the British, albeit an unofficial one. He was also a retail dealer specialising in ships working for the British Royal Navy. For a period of time he ran a business supplying ice imported from the United States to Singapore; it folded in 1856. Hoo was hailed as \"one of the most influential Chinese (Cantonese) tycoons in Singapore\". He was awarded the Order of St Michael and St George, Class Companion (CMG). In 1869, he became the first Asian member of the Legislative Council and within a few years was made an extraordinary member of the Executive Council, the only Chinese to have held this position.\n\nHoo was described as having led a rich and glamorous lifestyle, occasionally organizing elaborate meals, mostly intended for overseas visitors. He would hire many dancers to perform for him, as well as personal servants to fan him, as depicted in an illustration by English painter Edward Cree. He also owned a few race horses; one of them reportedly earned him about a hundred thousand dollars. Hoo frequently let the public at large visit his residence, which was depicted as sprawling with lush greenery. Despite being eloquent in the English language, he maintained a Chinese personality, preferring to wear Chinese robes. His son Hoo Ah Yip (), was educated in Britain. When his son snipped off his ponytail and converted to Christianity, Hoo Ah Kay was written to have been \"outraged\".\n\nHoo Ah Kay died on 27 March 1880, aged 64. \"Whampoa Road\" in Novena, Singapore is named after him.\n\nHoo Ah Kay appears in George MacDonald Fraser's historical novel \"Flashman's Lady\" and in \"The Hills of Singapore\" by Dawn Farnham.\n"}
{"id": "29239984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29239984", "title": "Intellectual property protection of typefaces", "text": "Intellectual property protection of typefaces\n\nTypefaces, fonts, and their glyphs raise intellectual property considerations in copyright, trademark, design patent, and related laws. The copyright status of a typeface—and any font file that describes it digitally—varies between jurisdictions. In the United States, the shapes of typefaces are not eligible for copyright, though the shapes may be protected by design patent (although these are rarely applied for, the first US design patent ever awarded was for a typeface). Typefaces can be protected in other countries, including the UK, Germany, and France, by industrial design protections that are similar to copyright or design patent in that they protect the abstract shapes. Additionally, in the US and in some other countries, computer \"fonts\"—the \"digital instantiation\" of the shapes as vector outlines—may be protected by copyright on the computer code that produces them. The name of a typeface may also be protected as a trademark.\n\nIn 1981, West-Germany passed the \"Gesetz zum Wiener Abkommen vom 12. Juni 1973 über den Schutz typographischer Schriftzeichen und ihre internationale Hinterlegung\" (\"Law on the 1973 Vienna Agreement for the Protection of Type Faces and their International Deposit\", also simply known as \"Schriftzeichengesetz\" or \"Type Faces Law\"), according to which a typeface is initially protected under German copyright law for 10 years from first publication on. After the end of this initial ten-year period, the rights holder may pay a fee to prolong copyright status for additional 15 years only once. According to German law, every typeface thus ends up in the public domain after no more than 25 years from first publication onwards, after which it is also free to be digitized into a computer font, which in itself holds a much higher copyright protection status by German law than analogue typefaces due to being legally classified as a computer program.\n\nThe \"name\" of a typeface can separately be registered as a trademark (\"Wortmarke\") for a fee, which like a digital font also holds much higher copyright protection status than an analogue typeface itself. If a typeface's name is trademarked, no other typeface may bear the same name, not even digital clones of the analogue typeface.\n\nIrish copyright law covers typefaces. Like the United Kingdom law (see below), it allows for using the typeface in the ordinary course of printing. The term of protection is 15 years from first publication.\n\nIn Japan, typefaces have been held not to be covered by copyright, on the ground that they function primarily as a means of communicating information, rather than an appeal to aesthetic appreciation.\n\nIn Russia the legal vacuum with soviet intellectual legacy combined with absence of specific law regulation of the fonts – created the opposite situation, where all typefaces have copyright and payments can be collected by current law. According to the Russian Yur'yev legal bureau, at least 99 legal threats by Lebedev's design studio have been about the use of studio made typefaces in Russia without payment.\n\nIn Switzerland, there is no specific law for the protection of typefaces. So far, the jurisdiction has been very reluctant in admitting legal protection of any sort to typefaces. However, the denied protection is not imperative: in theory, typefaces could be protected based on both copyright and design law. Additionally, the name of a typeface can be protected by a trademark.\n\nIn 1916, England recognized copyright in typefaces, but protected only the design with all the letters in their particular order. The current United Kingdom copyright statute, enacted in 1989, expressly refers to copyrights in typeface designs. English law does consider that fonts are subject to copyright. However, this only covers typefaces for 25 years from first publication, and does not cover their usage by typographers.\n\nTypefaces cannot be protected by copyright in the United States (Code of Federal Regulations, Ch 37, Sec. 202.1(e); \"Eltra Corp. vs. Ringer\"). The idea that typefaces (rather than fonts, which are computer software) cannot be copyrighted in the United States is black letter law. 37 C.F.R. § 202.1(e). Under U.S. law, typefaces and their letter forms or glyphs are considered utilitarian objects whose public utility outweighs any private interest in protecting their creative elements. However, there is a distinction between a font and a typeface. The machine code used to display a stylized typeface (called a font) is protectable as copyright. In 1992, the US Copyright Office determined that digital outline fonts had elements that could be protected as software. Since that time, the Office has accepted registration of copyright for digital vector fonts, such as PostScript Type 1, TrueType, and OpenType format files.\n\nThis is part of the basis of the 2017 lawsuit brought by Berthold LLC against Target Corporation for its alleged unlawful use of its fonts. \"Berthold v. Target\", no. 1:17-cv-07180 (N.D. Ill.). It is also part of the basis for an unpublished 1998 opinion by Judge Whyte in \"Adobe Systems, Inc. v. Southern Software, Inc.\", finding that Adobe Software held a valid copyright for its Utopia \"font\" and that it had been infringed by the defendant(s) in that case. \n\nHistorically, the unavailability of protection for typefaces reaches back to at least 1976. In 1988, the Copyright Office published a report titled, \"Policy Decision on Copyrightability of Digitized Typefaces\", which explains: \"The decision in \"Eltra Corp. v. Ringer\" clearly comports with the intention of the Congress. Whether typeface designs should be protected by copyright was considered and specifically rejected by Congress in passing the Copyright Act of 1976. The 1976 House Report states: A \"typeface\" can be defined as a set of letters, numbers, or other symbolic characters, whose forms are related by repeating design elements consistently applied in a notational system, and are intended to be embodied in articles whose intrinsic utilitarian function is for use in composing text or other cognizable combinations of characters. The Committee does not regard the design of typeface, as thus defined, to be a copyrightable \"pictorial, graphic, or sculptural work\" within the meaning of this bill and the application of the dividing line in section 101 [H.R. Reg. No. 1476, 94th Cong., 2nd Sess 5 (1976)].\n\nIn addition to rejecting copyright protection for typeface designs, Congress deferred a decision on a more limited form of protection under proposed ornamental design legislation. Title II of the 1976 copyright revision bill as passed by the Senate could have protected typeface designs, but the House of Representatives had doubts about this limited form of protection. Consequently, only copyright revision passed. [H.R. Reg. No. 1476 at 50 and 55]. Design legislation has yet to be enacted, and Congress has chosen not to include typeface designs within the Copyright Act's definition of pictorial, graphic or sculptural works.\"\n\nAccording to section 906.4 of the \"Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office Practices\", typography and calligraphy are also not copyrightable in themselves.\n\nTypefaces may be protected by a design patent in many countries (either automatically, by registration, or by some combination thereof). A design patent is the strongest system of protection, but the most uncommon. It is the only US legal precedent that protects the actual design (the design of the individual shapes of the letters) of the font. A prominent example is the European Union, where the automatic protection (without registration) expires after three years and can be extended (by registration) up to 25 years.\n\nIn 1981, Germany passed a special extension (\"Schriftzeichengesetz\") to the design patent law (\"Geschmacksmustergesetz\") for protecting typeface designs. This also permits typefaces to be registered as designs.\n\nThe names of particular fonts may be protected by a trademark. This is the weakest form of protection because only the font name itself is being protected. For example, the letters that make up the trademarked font Palatino can be copied but the name must be changed.\n\nURW++ was involved in a 1995 lawsuit with Monotype Corporation for cloning their fonts and naming them with a name starting with the same three letters. As typeface shapes themselves cannot be copyrighted in the United States, the lawsuit centered on trademark infringement. A US court decided that Monotype's trademarks were \"fanciful\" and did not have descriptive value of the actual products. However it also decided that URW was confusing the public deliberately because \"the purloining of the first part of a well-known trademark and the appending of it to a worthless suffix is a method of trademark poaching long condemned by the courts.\" The court issued an injunction preventing URW from using their chosen names.\n\nThe basic standard for copyrighted digital font use is that a license is required for each individual font used on a computer, or in the case of businesses, one per entity. Under the license fonts are typically licensed only for use on one computer. These End User License Agreements (EULAs) generally state that fonts may only be used on machines that have a valid license. These fonts cannot be shared by multiple computers or given to others. These licenses can be obtained in three ways: directly from the font authors (e.g., Adobe), as part of a larger software package (e.g., Microsoft Office), or through purchasing or downloading the font from an authorized outlet.\n\nSuch licenses typically only apply to the font file itself (which is a computer program), and not to the shape of the typeface, which may be subject to a design patent.\n\nOpen-source font licenses include the General Public License with the Font Exception, the SIL Open Font License, and the Ubuntu Font License.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1995, Bitstream Inc. and four other type companies successfully sued SWFTE for copyright infringement. SWFTE was using special computer programs to take other type founders' fonts, convert them and give them new names. The case focused on the fact that SWFTE had used Bitstream's software to create these new fonts.\n\n\"Adobe Systems, Inc. v. Southern Software, Inc.\" helped clear the distinction between intellectual property protection for a font versus a typeface. SSI had used the FontMonger program to copy and rename fonts from Adobe and others. They assumed safety from prosecution because, though they had directly copied the points that define the shapes from Adobe's fonts, they had made slight adjustments to all the points so they were not technically identical. Nevertheless, it was determined that the computer code had been copied.\n\nIn , Font Brothers filed a lawsuit against Hasbro, claiming that Hasbro used the “Generation B” font for its My Little Pony product without permission. Font Brothers claimed that Hasbro had refused to comply with their licensing request. They are also claiming substantial damages, from loss of revenue for this misuse, and requesting a jury trial to resolve this matter.\n\nMost recently, Berthold LLC sued Target Corporation for its alleged breach of a font license agreement. \"Berthold LLC v. Target Corp.\", No. 1:17-cv-07180 (N.D. Ill.). Target recognized the distinction between a font and a typeface, and what is protectable under U.S. copyright laws. (See docket entry no. 21). \n\n"}
{"id": "842201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=842201", "title": "Invoice", "text": "Invoice\n\nAn invoice, bill or tab is a commercial document issued by a seller to a buyer, relating to a sale transaction and indicating the products, quantities, and agreed prices for products or services the seller had provided the buyer.\n\nPayment terms are usually stated on the invoice. These may specify that the buyer has a maximum number of days in which to pay and is sometimes offered a discount if paid before the due date. The buyer could have already paid for the products or services listed on the invoice.\n\nIn the rental industry, an invoice must include a specific reference to the duration of the time being billed. So in addition to quantity, price, and discount, the invoice amount is also based on duration. Generally, each line of a rental invoice will refer to the actual hours, days, weeks, months, etc., being billed.\n\nFrom the point of view of a seller, an invoice is a \"sales invoice\". From the point of view of a buyer, an invoice is a \"purchase invoice\". The document indicates the buyer and seller, but the term \"invoice\" indicates money is owed \"or\" owing.\n\n\"'A typical invoice may contain:\n\nIn countries where wire transfer is the preferred method of settling debts, the printed bill will contain the bank account number of the creditor and usually a reference code to be passed along the transaction identifying the payer.\n\nThe US Defense Logistics Agency requires an employer identification number on invoices.\n\nThe European Union requires a VAT (value added tax) identification number.\n\nIn Canada, the registration number for GST purposes must be furnished for all supplies over $30 made by a registered supplier in order to claim input tax credits.\n\nRecommendations about invoices used in international trade are also provided by the UNECE Committee on Trade, which involves a more detailed description of the logistics aspect of merchandise and therefore may be convenient for international logistics and customs procedures.\n\nWithin the European Union Value Added Tax directive, Article 226 is a concise definition of invoices within the union member states.\n\nWithout prejudice to the particular provisions laid down in this Directive, only the following details are required for VAT purposes on invoices issued pursuant to Articles 220 and 221:\n\n\nArticle 226b of the EU VAT Directive is a concise definition of receipts within the union member states.\n\nAs regards simplified invoices issued pursuant to Article 220a and Article 221(1) and (2), Member States shall require at least the following details:\n\n\nThey may not require details on invoices other than those referred to in Articles 226, 227 and 230.\n\nDetails about the Australian Tax Office (ATO) requirements for a tax invoice can be found on their website.\n\nFor all GST purposes, a seller must issue a tax invoice to the buyer regardless the sale being in cash or credit. Hence, a tax invoice in Australia serves as an invoice as well as a receipt in the conventional sense. The words 'paid' or 'payable' will differentiate meaning. The tax invoice must contain seven facts as per the GST Tax Law.\n\nThere are different types of invoices:\n\n\nSome invoices are no longer paper-based, but rather transmitted electronically over the Internet. It is still common for electronic remittance or invoicing to be printed in order to maintain paper records. Standards for electronic invoicing vary widely from country to country. Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) standards such as the United Nation's EDIFACT standard include message encoding guidelines for electronic invoices. The EDIFACT is followed up in the UN/CEFACT ebXML syntax cross industry invoice.\n\nThe United Nations standard for electronic invoices (\"INVOIC\") includes standard codes for transmitting header information (common to the entire invoice) and codes for transmitting details for each of the line items (products or services). The \"INVOIC\" standard can also be used to transmit credit and debit memos.\n\nIn the European Union legislation was passed in 2010 in the form of directive 2010/45/EU to facilitate the growth of Electronic Invoicing across all its member states. This legislation caters for varying VAT and inter-country invoicing requirements within the EU, in addition to legislating for the authenticity and integrity of invoices being sent electronically. It is estimated that in 2011 alone roughly 5 million EU businesses will have sent Electronic Invoices.\n\nThe XML message format for electronic invoices has been used since the inception of XML in 1998. Open Application Group Integration Specification (OAGIS) has included an invoice since 2001. OAGi (Open Applications Group) has a working relationship with UN/CEFACT where OAGi and its members participate in defining many of the Technology and Methodology specifications. OAGi also includes support for these Technology and Methodology specifications within OAGIS.\n\nThe XML message format for electronic invoices has been used in recent years. There are two standards currently being developed. One is the cross industry invoice under development by the United Nations standards body UN/CEFACT and the other is UBL (Universal Business Language) which is issued by OASIS (Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards). Implementations of invoices based on UBL are common, most importantly in the public sector in Denmark as it was the first country where UBL is mandated by law for all the invoices of the public sector. Further implementations are underway in the Scandinavian countries as result of the NES (North European Subset) project. Implementations are also underway in Italy, Spain, the Netherlands (UBL 2.0) and with the European Commission itself.\n\nThe NES work has been transferred to CEN (European Committee for Standardization), (the standards body of the European Union) workshop CEN/BII, for public procurement in Europe. The result of that work is a pre-condition for PEPPOL, pan European pilots for public procurement, financed by the European Commission. There UBL procurement documents will be implemented in cross-border pilots between European countries.\n\nAgreement has been made between UBL and UN/CEFACT for convergence of the two XML messages standards with the objective of merging the two standards into one before end of 2009 including the provision of an upgrade path for implementations started in either standard.\n\nISDOC is a standard that was developed in the Czech Republic as a universal format for electronic invoices. On 16 October 2008, 14 companies and the Czech government signed a declaration to use this format within one year in their products.\n\nOrganizations purchasing goods and services usually have a process in place for approving payment of invoices based on an employee's confirmation that the goods or services have been received.\n\nTypically, when paying an invoice, a remittance advice will be sent to the supplier to inform them their invoice has been paid.\n\nInvoices are different from receipts. Both invoices and receipts are ways of tracking purchases of goods and services. In general the content of the invoices can be similar to that of receipts including tracking the amount of the sale, calculating sales tax owed and calculating any discounts applied to the purchase. Invoices differ from receipts in that invoices serve to notify customers of payments owed, whereas receipts serve as proof of completed payment.\n\nInvoice finance is effectively a line of credit for a business that is secured on the business's portfolio of invoices.\n\nThere are several benefits in terms of choosing invoice financing for your business:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58500336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58500336", "title": "Jahangir Alam (politician)", "text": "Jahangir Alam (politician)\n\nJahangir Alam (born May 7, 1979) is a Bangladeshi politician, businessman. Aligned with the Bangladesh Awami League, he was elected as second mayor of the Gazipur City Corporation on July 2018. He is the Managing Director of Honourable Textile Composite Ltd and Z Alam Apparels.\n\nAlam was born in Gazipur District. He passed SSC, HSC exam from Bhawal Badre Alam Government College. He completed graduation and post graduation from the same college. After that, he earned LLB degree from National University in Bangladesh.\n\nIn July 2018 Alam was elected as Mayor of Gazipur City Corporation as the Bangladesh Awami League candidate. In the election Alam, with a ‘boat’ symbol, got 400,010 votes while Hasan Uddin Sarkar, with an election symbol of a ‘sheaf of paddy’, managed to secure 197,611 votes. He was the former vice-president of Bangladesh Chhatra League and vice-chairman of Gazipur Sadar Upazila.\n"}
{"id": "28868382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28868382", "title": "Jamie Bennett (businessman)", "text": "Jamie Bennett (businessman)\n\nJamieson Robert Forrest Bennett (commonly known as Jamie Bennett) is a business entrepreneur from Aberdeen, Scotland.\n\nJamie was born in December 1971 and grew up in Aberdeenshire where he attended Turriff Academy before going onto study Engineering at the University of Aberdeen, graduating with a Bachelor of Engineering (honours). \n\nHaving harboured his dream to be a businessman since childhood, he started his first venture Atlas Interactive Limited, an oil and gas technology business at the age of just 23. Atlas pioneered the use of e-learning within the oil and gas industry and became one of the largest providers of online learning programmes internationally, with hundreds of thousands of users across 35 countries. The company created a diagnostic safety e-learning programme \"Minimum Industry Safety Training\" (MIST) which is used by most personnel working in the UK offshore oil and gas sector. Bennett sold Atlas in 2007 in a multi-million-pound deal and left the business in 2009 establishing Enerco Group, an entrepreneurial investment company focused on oil and gas technology businesses. \n\nFrom 2010 onwards, Enerco Group has created and invested in a number of oil and gas related companies including Operational Excellence (OPEX) Group Ltd, Mintra Training Portal Ltd and Mintra Training Portal A.S.Mintra was sold for an undisclosed figure in December 2014 to a private equity firm at which time Enerco Group held a major interest. Within this period Enerco Group invested £3 million in the redevelopment of an office complex in the west end of Aberdeen to accommodate its growing companies.\n\nJamie is currently Chairman and CEO of OPEX Group. Opex works with oil and gas operating companies to reduce lifting costs using a powerful combination of predictive technologies, data science and multi-discipline oil and gas expertise. OPEX's predictive Analysis Service X-PAS, provides data-driven insights which enable customers to eliminate production loss, cut maintenance costs and improve safety. OPEX recently won the Oil and Gas UK award for Business Innovation and have been shortlisted for several other awards including the global Energy Institute Awards. In his spare time Jamie is involved in numerous businesses, largely in the oil and gas space.\n\nRenowned for his entrepreneurialism, Jamie strives to help young aspiring business owners on the path to success by mentoring, challenging and sharing his expertise and knowledge. This was recognised in 2018 when he was the inaugural winner of the Elevator 'Inspirational Mentor of the Year' award. He is actively involved in supporting the local community through his work with the charity Denis Law Legacy Trust, Streetsport. The charity aims to reduce instances of youth crime and anti-social behaviors through sport and is currently engaged with over 8,000 participants across a range of age groups to contribute to healthier and safer communities.\n\nOut with work Jamie is passionate about cars but can often be found in a boiler suit driving a tractor on the family farm. \n"}
{"id": "12217717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12217717", "title": "Jean-François Fortin (chairman)", "text": "Jean-François Fortin (chairman)\n\nJean-François Fortin (born 12 January 1947 in Coulonges-sur-l'Autize) is a French businessman who was the chairman of SM Caen, a football club in the French Ligue 1. He was made a Chevalier of the Légion d'honneur in 2002.\n"}
{"id": "23921119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23921119", "title": "Kyaw Myint", "text": "Kyaw Myint\n\nU Kyaw Myint (;born c. 1945) also known as May Flower Kyaw Win is a noted Burmese businessman and political figure. He is one of the wealthiest tycoons in Burma and is one of the country's leading industrialists and bankers. He is the director-general of the Directorate of Industry under the Ministry of Industry of Burma.\n\nHe was born into a poor Chinese family in a small village in northern Shan State. However, in 1968, when he was in his 20s, Kyaw Win worked in the border town of Tachilek, where he established business relationships with Thai businessmen. One of them was the notorious Thai logging tycoon, Choon Tangkakarn, owner of Pathumthani Sawmills.\n\nSince 1990, Kyaw Win has managed in the timber business and in 1994, he established Myanmar May Flower Bank, the third biggest in Burma with ten branches of which he is the chairman. It was the first bank in Burma to have 24-hour automatic teller machines also was the first to introduce computer networks for transactions back in November 1995. In 1998, Aik Hok and Win Naing bought a large number of shares in May Flower Bank from Kyaw Win, and since then the bank’s activities have declined.\n\nKyaw Win is also involved in the following associations and businesses. He is Managing Director of Chin-Su Co, Ltd; Chairman of Chin-Su May Flower Plywood Industry; Chairman of TN Resources Pte Co, Ltd (Singapore); Chairman, of Pathum Thani Saw Mill Co, Ltd, (Thailand); and Managing Director of Yangon Airways. He has connections with the Asian Development Bank and important top ranking government officials, including General Maung Aye.\n\nIn 2004 he negotiated the building of a series of new pulp factories across several states of Burma including in Ponnagyun in Rakhine State which will consume nearly 900,000 tonnes of bamboo a year, and Thabaung township in Ayeyarwady Division which will begin commercial production at 200 tonnes a year and several other areas. The decision was part of a bilateral cooperation plan between the Ministry of Industry in Burma and China Metallurgical Construction Corporation signed during the visit of General Khin Nyunt, to China from July 11 to 17 in which U Kyaw Myint was also a member of the delegation.\n\nKyaw Myint is allegedly the head of the Chinese-staffed and Burma Army-supported People Militia Force (Bi Thu Sit or Ta Ka Sa Pha), an organization that oversees the production and trafficking of opium and heroin. Myint is behind the rise in opium production in Myanmar's Shan State since 2010.\n"}
{"id": "44737573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44737573", "title": "Lee Ee Hoe", "text": "Lee Ee Hoe\n\nDato' Sri Lee Ee Hoe, JP (; born 5 July 1964), also known as Leesan, is the first recipient in the tourism industry worldwide to be bestowed the Imperial Decoration Order of the Rising Sun, Gold and Silver Rays by the Emperor of Japan in 2015. This is in recognition of his longstanding contributions in the development and promotion of tourism between Japan and Malaysia, as well as his bold move to lead the first tour to Japan soon after Japan's devastating tsunami and earthquake in 2011.\n\nOn 17 July 2015, Lee launched his first book at the Hong Kong Book Fair about his travel experiences and his perspective of the world.\n\nAs of October 2018, Lee has traveled to 119 countries and is a member of Traveler's Century Club located in California, United States.\n\nLee was born in Yong Peng, Johor. His interest in travel and sharing travel information started at a young age. In school, he and his friend and future business partner, planned scouting trips for their school troops. After secondary school, he became a licensed tourist guide in Malaysia. He continued his tertiary education in Japan and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from Tokyo International University. After graduating, he returned to Malaysia with experience in the Japanese tour industry and set up a travel agency, Apple Vacations & Conventions in 1996.\n\nLee is the co-founder and Group Executive Chairman of Apple Vacations & Conventions, the first overseas travel agency to receive the \"Japan Tourism Agency Commissioner’s Commendation Award\". Apple Vacations also introduced Malaysia Airlines' first charter flight to Hokkaido in 2010. He is the Lifetime Overseas Advisor of Taiwanese Leisure Farming Development Association since 2009.\n\nHe is also best known for his work in the tourism industry and is an active columnist for newspapers, magazines and other publications.\n\nCurrently, Lee is also the Executive Director for main board-listed company Yong Tai Berhad (7066), which holds the licence to produce and stage Impression Melaka. The Impression Melaka show, scheduled to launched in February 2018, is expected to attract 1.2 million tourists per year, generating RM179 million of gross national income for Malaysia. It is a tourism project under the National Key Economic Area. In February 2013, a memorandum was signed with China Impression Wonders Art Development Co Ltd. The project was endorsed by Malaysian Tourism and Culture Minister Dato' Seri Nazri Aziz and the project launch in May in Beijing was witnessed by former Tourism Minister Tan Sri Datuk Seri Dr Ng Yen Yen.\n\nIn 2014, Apple Vacations & Conventions started collaborating with Marriott International to develop the first Courtyard by Marriott in Malacca. It is planned to be in Malacca's central tourism district and to open in 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30644931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30644931", "title": "Licensed production", "text": "Licensed production\n\nLicensed production is the production under license of technology developed elsewhere. It is an especially prominent commercial practice in developing nations, which often approach licensed production as a starting point for indigenous industrial development.\n\nWhile licensed production provides stimulus to the production and technical capabilities of local industry, in many cases it remains at least partly dependent on foreign support.\n\nThe four most common applications of licensed production have historically been automotive engines and parts, weaponry, aircraft, and pharmaceuticals. During World War I, it was more common for licensing agreements to take place between companies in the same country; for example, Opel was granted a license to produce BMW-designed aircraft engines for the German war effort.\n\nDuring the 1920s, European economists began advocating licensed production of foreign goods as the cure for \"industrial particularism\"—it allowed countries to bypass the costly research and development stage of acquiring products with which their own industries were unfamiliar, and refocus on the domestic manufacture of preexisting overseas designs. This allowed for a much higher rate of production, and was considerably cheaper than national sourcing and off-the-shelf acquisition. European automobile manufacturers were the first to adopt this practice, producing a number of specialized American components for their passenger cars under license. The United States not only supplied European factories with the necessary blueprints and licenses, but also sourced American-made tooling equipment accordingly, which allowed the automobile companies to optimize their production lines. By the 1960s it was not uncommon for an entire specialized industry—such as the manufacture of helicopters in the United Kingdom—to be dependent wholly on licensed components. \n\nA number of countries began improving products manufactured under license, and were even able to re-export them successfully. This trend resulted in some technology suppliers imposing additional conditions on the licensee. The United States began inserting \"pro forma\" statements into licensing agreements known as \"side letters\", which required the free sharing of any improvements made to American technology. Other attempts were also made to control the destination of licensed products, particularly with regards to the arms industry. For instance, France stipulated that Eland armoured vehicles manufactured in South Africa under a French license were not to be exported to other foreign powers without its express approval. Yet another form of common licensing restriction related solely to the licensing activity, regulating whether the specified product was fully produced or partly assembled, and whether entire products or their individual components were manufactured.\n\nIn some cases, the original technology supplier did not need to manufacture the product itself—it merely patented a specific design, then sold the actual production rights to multiple overseas clients. This resulted in some countries producing separate but nearly identical products under different licenses. \n\nDeveloping nations began accounting for a significant percentage of licensed production during the late twentieth century. Governments of developing nations often sought to encourage rapid industrialization, reduce dependence on foreign imports, and combat high levels of unemployment by creating and retaining local jobs. However, indigenous companies were often too small and their research capacity too limited to meet these goals alone, compelling them to adopt licensing agreements. Manufacturing non-national products under license generated employment and empowered the industry while reducing dependence on imports. It also avoided the risks inherent in the development of new products without adequate research infrastructure by taking advantage of consumer goods already proven in foreign markets. Several developing nations such as Pakistan and Singapore which built important segments of their industry on licensed production have now become licensors themselves to less developed states.\n\nLicensed production is defined as an overseas production arrangement, usually as a direct result of inter-state trade agreements, that permits a foreign government or entity to acquire the technical information to manufacture all or part of an equipment or component patented in the exporting country. According to the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), it must constitute a partnership between an intellectual property owner and a licensee who is authorized to use such rights under certain conditions. The licensee is manufacturing a product for which it has been granted production rights under specific conditions, while the licensor retains ownership of the intellectual property thereof. In some cases the licensor will supply the necessary technical data, prototypes, and/or machine tools to the licensee.\n\nWhile licensed production is often dependent on the appropriate technology transfers, it does not necessarily entail ownership and management of the overseas production by the technology supplier. However, the licensor does retain the right to continue to use the licensed property, and to attribute further licenses to third parties. Occasionally, licensees may themselves sub-license a third party with or without the agreement of the intellectual property owner. \n\nLicensing agreements determine the form and scope of compensation to the intellectual property owner, which usually takes the form of a flat \"licensing fee\" or a running royalty payment derived from a share of the licensee's revenue. The licenses can be terminated by the licensor, or may expire after a set date; however, the technology and knowledge, once transferred, cannot be rescinded, so even if the licensing agreement expires they remain in the licensee's possession.\n\nTwo related commercial practices are foreign subcontractor production and the proliferation of knock-down kits. Foreign subcontracting occurs when a product's original manufacturer contracts the production of its individual parts and components to a second party overseas. Such arrangements are not considered examples of licensed production because they do not involve the explicit licensing of technological information. Knock-down kits are regarded as a prerequisite to licensed production; they consist of products assembled locally from imported, pre-manufactured parts.\n\nSome licensors find it difficult to regulate the quality of their products manufactured under license. It is not always made clear to consumers where exactly a particular good originated, and a poor quality licensed product may damage the reputation of the original licensor. However, this is not considered a form of consumer fraud unless the product is unlicensed or counterfeit.\n\nUnlicensed production is the utilization of foreign manufacturing technology without a license, achieved through industrial espionage or reverse engineering. Products in high demand on the international market can be reproduced, based on the same or similar design, and branded in ways to make them indistinguishable from the original. When copied and reproduced without a license, certain items are sometimes recopied in a similar manner by a third party. The manufacturers responsible may also grant legitimately registered sub-licenses for their unlicensed products, profiting at the expense of the real intellectual property owner. The quality of unlicensed goods varies greatly; the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime has noted that while licensing companies often provide quality control measures, and there is some incentive for licensees to comply or risk legal action and the ensuing damage to their own profit, manufacturers who engage in unlicensed production are under no such obligations.\n\nAnother method of circumventing the need for a license involves a manufacturer making slight modifications in the design or function of an existing product, before reproducing it. The manufacturer could then argue that the resulting product is not an unlicensed copy, but a new product not subject to license.\n\nIndustrial products which have been built under license include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21704232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21704232", "title": "List of products by Dapol", "text": "List of products by Dapol\n\nThis is an incomplete list of products by Dapol. It contains past, present, and future models of model railways, in both N gauge and OO gauge, which have been produced by manufacturer Dapol.\n\n\n\n\nDapol's first OO gauge model to be announced was a BR class 22 Diesel, but this was not the first released. A Sentinel Shunter was commissioned by \"Model Rail\" Magazine, released July 2011, and a Beattie well tank by Kernow Model Shop in September 2011. The class 22 was released in November 2011 closely followed by a Hattons commissioned LMS 10000 diesel model. Since them Dapol have announced an ever increasing range of commissioned and in house models for release over the next few years.\n\nDapol also produced a British Rail Class 390 model - the 390001 Virgin Pioneer.\n\nThere are two versions of the popular wagons. Dapol has recently introduced a collection of wagons with NEM couplings, finer wheels, etc. These are denoted by '[M]'; the m representing 'modern'\n\nPlease note that there are also 4-, 5- and 7-plank wagons, which have appeared not only in company liveries, but also in private owner liveries. Additional company specific wagons are listed below.\n\n\n\n\n\nDapol have released a 7 plank ready to run wagon in O gauge, and have plans to \nrelease several locomotives and other items of rolling stock. One point to note is they \nare very keenly priced breaking the myth that O gauge ready to run models are very \nexpensive.\n\n"}
{"id": "19440052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19440052", "title": "Manuel Garcia-Duran", "text": "Manuel Garcia-Duran\n\nManuel García-Durán was the chairman and CEO of Grupo Ezentis (formerly Avánzit), a business group with more than 50 years of experience in the technology, infrastructure and telecommunications sectors, listed on the Madrid stock exchanges.\n\nGarcía-Durán holds degrees in law and economics from the University of Deusto in Spain. He also studied French civilization at the Sorbonne, strategic marketing at the London Business School and attended the International Institute for Management Development in Lausanne, Switzerland.\n\nGarcía-Durán’s professional career has been intrinsically linked to projects and companies in the technology, telecommunications and audiovisual sector. García-Durán was the chairman of Telefónica Media, the Spanish company’s business unit dedicated to the Group’s interests in audiovisual and media. He also held the position as General Manager of marketing, communications and Institutional Relations of Telefónica Group, at the time when the company was being privatized and began its internationalization process in 1996-2011. Additionally, García-Durán was the executive vice president of Antena3 TV, where he has led various projects related to the audiovisual sector in recent years. \nOn 14 September 2011 García-Durán was appointed as new chairman and CEO of Ezentis Group, (formerly Avánzit) a business group listed on the Madrid and Bilbao stock exchanges. It has over 50 years’ experience in the technology, infrastructure and telecommunications sectors, with over 5000 employees across 3 continents.\n\nHe has appointed advisor of the board of Brasilinvest that it is and important group with partners in 16 countries and prominent representatives from all around the world who are part of the group's board of advisors.\n\nOn 10 Genuary 2012 García-Duran was appointed as new chairman and CEO of Vertice 360, a business group listed on the Madrid, Barcelona, and Bilbao stock exchanges. He resigned in 2013.\n\nIn 2015 he was summarily dismissed from his post in Ezentis.\n"}
{"id": "17904675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17904675", "title": "Nicolai Benjamin Aall", "text": "Nicolai Benjamin Aall\n\nNicolai Benjamin Aall (1739–1798) was a Norwegian businessman, ship-owner, property owner and timber merchant.\n\nNicolai Benjamin Aall was born in 1739 as the first son of Niels Jacobsen Aall (1702–1784) and Benedicte Henrikke Bergh (1714–1748) from Moss. Niels Jacobsen Aall had been born in London, but moved to Porsgrund in 1712. Benedicte Henrikke was the second of three wives. Nicolai Benjamin's younger half-brother Jacob Aall, Sr. became a noted wholesaler, whereas his youngest half-sister Benedicte Henrica Aall married Severin Løvenskiold (1743–1818). Their son, Severin Løvenskiold, was his nephew.\n\nHe married Amborg Jørgensdatter Wesseltoft (1741–1815) from Skien, inheritor of the wealthy merchant Jørgen Simonsen Wesseltoft, in 1769. They had four sons; Niels Aall, Jacob Aall, Jørgen Aall and Nicolai Benjamin, Jr., and three daughters Benedicte Henricka, Inger and Constance. Benedicte Henricka married Ulrich Fredrich von Cappelen of the influential Cappelen family, and Inger married Hans Eleonardus Møller, Sr. Through these marriages Nicolai Benjamin Aall was the grandfather of later parliament member Hans Eleonardus Møller, political figures Ulrik Frederik Cappelen and Nicolai Benjamin Cappelen and publishing house founder Jørgen Wright Cappelen.\n\nAall graduated from the University of Copenhagen and took examination as a theologian in 1759, but later turned to work in his father's business. He acquired burghership as a merchant in 1772. He bought the sawmill at Ulefoss from the Anker family in 1782, having been a co-owner (one eighth part) since 1775. He also bought various real estate. In 1777 he took over two sawmills in Skien and forested property near the border of Telemark.\n\nIn 1796 he and Diderik von Cappelen, brother of his son-in-law Ulrich Fredrich von Cappelen, established a rope factory (\"Reperbane\") at Vestre Porsgrunn to meet the needs of the shipbuilding industry. \n\nIn the same year he was registered as the owner of eleven ships, having coped through the American Revolutionary War which had a negative impact on business. He was described as hard-working and self-sacrificing, and handled his business with \"superior proficiency\", according to one historian.\n"}
{"id": "1045465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1045465", "title": "Open Mobile Alliance", "text": "Open Mobile Alliance\n\nThe Open Mobile Alliance (OMA) is a standards body which develops open standards for the mobile phone industry. It is not a formal government-sponsored standards organization like the ITU, but a forum for industry stakeholders to agree on common specifications for products and services.\n\n\nThe OMA was created in June 2002 as an answer to the proliferation of industry forums each dealing with a few application protocols: WAP Forum (focused on browsing and device provisioning protocols), the Wireless Village (focused on instant messaging and presence), The SyncML Initiative (focused on data synchronization), the Location Interoperability Forum, the Mobile Games Interoperability Forum and the Mobile Wireless Internet Forum. Each of these forums had its bylaws, its decision-taking procedures, its release schedules, and in some instances there was some overlap in the specifications, causing duplication of work. The OMA was created to gather these initiatives under a single umbrella.\n\nMembers include traditional wireless industry players such as equipment and mobile systems manufacturers (Ericsson, Thomson, Huawei, ZTE, Reti Radiotelevisive Digitali, Nokia, Openwave, Sony, Philips, Motorola, Samsung, LG Electronics, Texas Instruments, Qualcomm) and mobile operators (Vodafone, Orange, T-Mobile, LG Telecom), and also software vendors (Microsoft, Friendly Technologies, Gemalto, Telit Communications, Red Bend Software and others).\n\nThe OMA liaises with other standards bodies on a regular basis to avoid overlap in specifications:\n\nThe OMA maintains a number of specifications, including\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28206672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28206672", "title": "Organization and Methods (management)", "text": "Organization and Methods (management)\n\nOrganization and Methods is a historical term in management science. Divisions of Organization and Methods were charged with devising and managing large scale administrative procedures. The term is notable in that it was the large O & M organizations in areas such as insurance and government which pioneered the commercial use of electronic computers in what became Data Processing, later Information Systems and Information Technology.\n"}
{"id": "46950501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46950501", "title": "Oumarou Fadil", "text": "Oumarou Fadil\n\nOumarou Fadil was born on 4 April 1966 in Garoua, capital of the North Province of Cameroon. As a businessman, he is the vice president of Group Fadil, an agro-industrial group prominent within Central Africa, which operates in several sectors including soap, oil extraction, tourism, livestock, and new information technologies. The company was founded by M. Fadil's father in 1944.\n\nM. Fadil's biological parents are both from the North Region of Cameroon, birthplace of Cameroon's first President Ahmadou Ahidjo. His father, El Hadj Fadil Abdoulaye Hassoumi (1924–1993), and mother, Adja Ahoua Doudou are members of the Fulani (Fulbe), a dynamic tribe whose main economic activities are based on livestock and trade. Their names are El Hadj Fadil Abdoulaye Hassoumi (father) and Hadja Hawa Doudou (mother).\nThey are from Rabinga and Garoua respectively and are both members of the Fulbe ethnic group, a dynamic tribe whose main economic activities are based on livestock farming and trade.\n\nOumarou Fadil married to Hassanatou in 1998. She comes from one of the greatest and noblest families in Garoua. The eldest of their three children is Balkissou Dya. Followed by her twin siblings Hassan and Houssenatou.\n\nHassanatou Mamadou, the wife, holds an MBA in Business Administration from the University of Poitiers. She takes an active part in her husband’s professional life.\n\nMr. Oumarou Fadil is the brother of Senator Mohamadou Bayero Fadil, businessman and president of the Fadil Group.\n\nOumarou Fadil went to University of San Diego where he got a master's degree in International Business. \nTwo ways then opened to him: whether he would become a trader at Wall Street or come back to Cameroon. He chose the latter and joined the Fadil Group. He first occupied the post of Administrative and financial Manager at the Complexe Chimique Camerounais a Central Africa sub-regional, a pioneer in agro-industry, and later the post of General Manager of Complexe Chimique Camerounais. As the Vice president of the Fadil Group he has taken an active part in the development of the said Group.\n\nHe quickly left his own imprint into the company leading it towards citizenship and societal responsibility. These productive initiatives make Complexe Chimique Camerounais a giant in the field of soap production.\n\nOumarou Fadil became Mayor of the Douala III constituency in 2002, being then the youngest Cameroonian mayor ever elected. This victory was greatly mentored by Pokossy Doumbe who allowed him to join the CPDM list in 1996.\n\nAs the mayor of Douala III, Oumarou Fadil took part in many summits worldwide, notably in the World Economic Forum summit in 2008 and in the India-Africa summit in 2012.\n\nOumarou Fadil also took an active part in the re –naming of one of the major streets in Douala. The street was renamed \"Avenue El Hadj Fadil Abdoulaye (El Hadj Fadil Abdoulaye Avenue), reflects his father’s name, the founder of the Fadil Group.\n\nThanks to a partnership with a group of American schools (Montgomery County Public Schools) the Douala III Constituency received six hundred desktop computers that were awarded to schools in the Douala III area.\n\nThrough the same channel the Douala III council hall was equipped with a Multimedia Resources Centre in 2003 where more than ten thousand young men and women have been trained so far. The centre was opened by Louis Bapes Bapes and Haman Adama, ministers of Secondary Education and of Basic Education respectively in the presence of his Excellency Niels Marquardt, US Ambassador to Cameroon at the time.\n\nIn the field of health Mr. Oumarou Fadil has made major gifts of beds, drugs and various devices to the Bonadiwoto Health Centre. Most of the gifts aim at preventing and curing diseases such as malaria, typhoid Fever and HIV-AIDS.\n\nHe is recently appointed as a member of the standing committee of African Cup of Nations organization in FUTSAL and Beach Soccer.\n\nKnight in the National Order of Valor\nOfficer of the National Order of Valor\nCommander of the National Order of Valor\n"}
{"id": "20901387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20901387", "title": "Polytechnic (United Kingdom)", "text": "Polytechnic (United Kingdom)\n\nA polytechnic () was a tertiary education teaching institution in England, Wales and Northern Ireland offering higher diplomas, undergraduate degree and post graduate education (masters and PhDs) that was governed and administered at the national level by the Council for National Academic Awards. At the outset the focus of Polytechnics was on STEM subjects with a special emphasis on engineering. After the passage of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992 they became independent universities which meant they could award their own degrees. The comparable institutions in Scotland were collectively referred to as Central Institutions. Like polytechnics or technological universities (institute of technology) in other countries, their aim was to teach both purely academic and professional vocational degrees (engineering, computer science, law, architecture, management, business, accounting, journalism, town planning) etc. Their original focus was applied education for professional work and their original roots concentrated on advanced engineering and applied science (STEM subjects), though soon after being founded they also created departments concerned with the humanities. The polytechnic legacy was to advance and excel in undergraduate and post graduate degrees in engineering and technology (STEM) education that now form a core faculty at most universities in the UK. While many former polytechnics have advanced their research focus many have stayed true to their original ethos by focusing on teaching for professional practice.\n\nThe division between universities and polytechnics was known as the Binary Divide in UK higher education.\n\nSome polytechnics trace their history back to the early 19th century. The London Polytechnic (now the University of Westminster) emerged from the Royal Polytechnic Institution which was founded at Regent Street, London in 1838. The establishment of the polytechnic was a reaction to the rise of industrial power and technical education in France, Germany and the USA. Degrees at the London Polytechnic were validated by the University of London. The first British institution to use the name \"polytechnic\" was the Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society, which it still retains, together with the affectionate nickname \"The Poly\".\n\nMost polytechnics were formed in the expansion of higher education in the 1960s, Academic degrees in polytechnics were validated by the UK Council for National Academic Awards (CNAA) from 1965 to 1992. The CNAA was chartered by the British government to validate and award degrees and maintain national quality assurance standards. The CNAA subject boards from their inception were from the universities. A CNAA degree was formally recognised as equivalent to a university degree and the courses were under strict scrutiny by assessors external to the polytechnics.\n\nSub-degree courses at these institutions were validated by the Business & Technology Education Council (BTEC).\n\nSome polytechnics were often seen as ranking below universities in the provision of higher education because they lacked degree-awarding powers, concentrated on applied science and engineering education and produced less research than the universities, and because the qualifications necessary to gain a place in one were sometimes lower than for a university (the failure rate in the first year of undergraduate courses was high due to a rigorous filtering process). However, in terms of an undergraduate education this was a misconception since many polytechnics offered academic degrees validated by the CNAA from bachelor's and master's degree to PhD research degrees. Also professional degrees in, for instance, engineering, town planning, law, and architecture were rigorously validated by various professional institutions. Many polytechnics argued that a CNAA degree was superior to many university degrees especially in engineering, due to the external independent validation process employed by the CNAA, the oversight of the engineering institutions, and innovations such as sandwich degrees. Such innovations made a polytechnic education more relevant for professional work in applying science and advanced technology in industry.\n\nIn UK culture an engineering, applied science and technological education tended to be looked down upon socially. Industries and activities such as \"manufacturing\" and \"engineering\" were perceived to be things of the past, boring and \"dirty\". This connection to polytechnics did not help their cause in terms of achieving status in the public eye. This attitude and influence led to an expansion of the more popular subjects in the \"creative\" industries such as fashion, arts and design, media studies, journalism, film studies, and sports management. This social influence caused many polytechnics to change their faculty of \"Engineering\" to faculty of \"Design and Technology\"\n\nFor many years a central admissions system for polytechnics was not seen as necessary. However, a large increase in applications resulted from funding cuts to universities in the early 1980s. The Polytechnics Central Admissions System was introduced and handled the years of entry from 1986 to 1992.\n\nUnder the Further and Higher Education Act 1992 they became fully fledged universities. After 1992, the former polytechnics (\"new universities\") awarded their own degrees. Most sub-degree BTEC qualifications have been phased out of the new universities and transferred to colleges of further education.\n\nThe polytechnics changed their names when they gained university status. Some simply dropped \"polytechnic\" and added \"university\" to their titles. For example, the Huddersfield Polytechnic became the University of Huddersfield. However, this was often not possible as there was another university with the name. One alternative title was \"Metropolitan University\", because the institution was situated in a city or other large metropolitan area. Examples are Manchester Metropolitan University and London Metropolitan University. These titles are often shortened to \"Met\" (Man Met, London Met) or an acronym (MMU, LMU). Others adopted a name which reflects the local area, such as Nottingham Trent University (named after the River Trent which flows through Nottingham) and Sheffield Hallam University (\"Hallam\" refers to the area of South Yorkshire in which much of Sheffield is situated). Ulster Polytechnic remains the only polytechnic to unite with a university; this occurred in 1984.\n\nThe last degree-awarding institution to hold on to the name \"polytechnic\" after 1992 was Anglia Polytechnic University (which had only attained polytechnic status the previous year). The word was soon identified as being off-putting to potential students, and the university became known as Anglia Ruskin University from 2005. The name \"polytechnic\" (École Polytechnique) in continental Europe and the USA (MIT) are viewed and styled as globally elite universities specializing in STEM education where science, engineering and engineers are premier forward looking strategic professions. This is in stark contrast to the culture and social identity of engineers in the UK.\n\nAt their peak there were over thirty polytechnics in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, the English ones being primarily located in urban areas large enough to support industry or commerce, from which they usually took the city name. \nThese are now universities.\n\nIn England, there are:\nIn addition, Wales has\n\nand Northern Ireland has:\n\nIn Scotland there were comparable Higher Education institutions called Central Institutions but these very rarely used the designation \"Polytechnic\" in their titles; these also converted into universities.\n\n"}
{"id": "52832644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52832644", "title": "Rajiv Banker", "text": "Rajiv Banker\n\nRajiv D. Banker (born 1953) is an accounting researcher and educator, recognized by the Institute for Scientific Information (Web of Science) as one of the 150 most influential researchers in economics and business. He is the Director of the Center for Accounting and Information Technology at the Fox School of Business and Management, Temple University. He is also President of the International Data Envelopment Analysis Society and Editor-in-Chief of the Data Envelopment Analysis Journal.\n\nBanker obtained his Bachelor of Science degree at the University of Bombay in 1973, and his PhD at Harvard University in 1980.\n\nHis early research focused on productivity, economies of scale, operational efficiency, and data envelopment analysis. His research on data envelopment analysis includes 15 articles co-authored with William W. Cooper from 1984 to 2011.\n\nIn 1995, Banker co-authored a textbook called \"Management Accounting\" with Anthony Akinson, Robert S. Kaplan and Mark Young. This textbook is now in its third edition. He also co-authored a book on the balanced scorecard.\n\nFrom mid 2004 to early 2005, Banker served only a short term as Dean of the A. Gary Anderson Graduate School of Management (AGSM) at the University of California Riverside, during which he spent considerable time in India conducting research, and then later served as a \"special assistant\" in the chancellor's office after leaving his position as Dean.\n\nFrom 2014 to 2016, Banker's research contributions include 15 articles on accounting, information systems, operations management and management science. Many of these articles were published in top journals, such as the Journal of Accounting and Economics Accounting Review, Accounting Horizons, and MIS Quarterly.\n\nBanker has received five prestigious awards from the American Accounting Association. These awards include the Lifetime Contribution to Management Accounting Award (2017), the Notable Contribution to Management Accounting Literature Award (2015)(2002), the Journal of Management Accounting Research Best Paper Award (2004), and the Award for Notable Contribution to Public Sector Accounting Literature (1991).\n\nHe has received three teaching awards, based on votes from graduate and undergraduate students.\n\n"}
{"id": "12192335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12192335", "title": "SOFT audit", "text": "SOFT audit\n\nIntegrated SOFT Audit is an integrated audit approach that focuses on the key and material components of four differing audit approaches relevant to an auditee, based on a detailed risk assessment performed annually. This approach integrates the key aspects of:\n\n"}
{"id": "48707528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48707528", "title": "Serpstat", "text": "Serpstat\n\nSerpstat is a software as a service (SaaS) company based in Odessa which offers search engine optimization (SEO) services, such as keyword research and backlink analysis. Initially, it was used within the digital marketing agency , which became its main investor. Serpstat's database includes information on 17 geographical regions of Google (USA, Australia, United Kingdom, Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Ukraine, Russia, Kazakhstan, South Africa, Canada, Belarus, Spain, Italy, Germany, Netherlands, France) and 3 regional databases of Yandex – Yandex Ukraine, Yandex Moscow, and Yandex Saint-Petersburg.\n\nSerpstat was first released in January 2013 under the name Prodvigator. In March 2015 Prodvigator was adapted for US market and got the name Serpstat.\n\nApr 2015 – Serpstat launch.\n\nAug 2016 – Serpstat introduces three new modules (Rank tracking, Backilnk Analysis and Site Audit) and becomes an all-in-one SEO platform.\n\nMar 2017 – Serpstat reached the number of 100,000 registered users.\n\nParticipant of conference.\n\n"}
{"id": "40870754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40870754", "title": "Shelby D. Hunt", "text": "Shelby D. Hunt\n\nShelby D. Hunt (born 1939) is an American organizational theorist, the Jerry S. Rawls and P. W. Horn Professor of Marketing at the Texas Tech University, and a highly cited marketing researcher. His is noted for his contributions to competition theory and the resource-advantage view. \n\nHunt originally studied mechanical engineering at the University of Ohio, graduating with a Bachelor of Science in 1962. He received his PhD from Michigan State University in 1968. After working as a technical sales representative for Hercules Plastics Inc, he began his academic career at the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 1969. He chaired the Marketing Department from 1974 to 1980. In 1980, he took up an academic position in the graduate school of the Texas Tech University and is currently the Jerry S. Rawls and P. W. Horn Professor of Marketing at the Texas Tech University. He was the Editor of the \"Journal of Marketing\" from 1984 to 1987. \n\nHis research interests are in the fields of \"Competition, Strategy, Marketing Theory, Ethics, Macromarketing, and Philosophy of Science.\" He has authored dozens of books and more than 150 articles and is one of the 250 most cited authors in business and economics. He and his work are the subject of the publication, \"Legends in Marketing: Shelby D. Hunt,\" edited by Jagdish N. Sheth and published in 2011.\n\nHunt is the recipient of multiple awards for his scholarship and services to education, including:\n\nBooks\n\nArticles/ Chapters\n\n"}
{"id": "21899514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21899514", "title": "Silver Line (Los Angeles Metro)", "text": "Silver Line (Los Angeles Metro)\n\nThe Silver Line is a limited-stop bus route with some bus rapid transit features operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro). The Silver Line route runs between the El Monte Station, Downtown Los Angeles, South Los Angeles, the Harbor Gateway Transit Center in Gardena and San Pedro.\n\nThe Silver Line offers frequent, all-stops service along the El Monte Busway and the Harbor Transitway, two grade-separated transit facilities built into the Los Angeles freeway system. The Silver Line was created as part of the conversion of the El Monte Busway and the Harbor Transitway from lanes reserved for buses and high occupancy vehicles into the Metro ExpressLanes that allow solo drivers to pay a toll to use lanes. The tolls collected have been used to operate the Silver Line and to improve amenities at stops.\n\nAs Silver Line buses travel along the El Monte Busway and the Harbor Transitway they serve stations built into the center or side of the roadway. There is a 3.5 mile gap between the western end of El Monte Busway and the northern end of the Harbor Transitway in Downtown Los Angeles, where Silver Line buses travel on surface streets, making a limited number of stops.\n\nTwo services are operated under the Silver Line name:\n\nThe eastern section of Silver Line route runs on the El Monte Busway between the El Monte Station in El Monte and Union Station in Downtown Los Angeles. The southern section of the route runs on the Harbor Transitway between 37th Street/USC station in Downtown Los Angeles and the Harbor Gateway Transit Center near the city of Carson. Buses travel between the eastern and southern sections along surface streets in Downtown Los Angeles where Silver Line buses make a limited amount of stops (11 in each direction) near major employment centers, tourist destinations and Metro Rail stations. Silver Line route 950 trips continue south of the Harbor Gateway Transit Center along the Harbor Freeway to San Pedro traveling in general purpose freeway lanes and making two stops en route at stations located on the side of the freeway near off and on ramps. In San Pedro, Silver Line route 950 buses once again travel along surface streets, serving the Harbor Beacon Park & Ride and making frequent stops along Pacific Avenue. \n\nThe Silver Line currently connects to all Metro Rail lines, though it will not connect with the Crenshaw/LAX Line, scheduled to open in 2019.\n\nThe Silver Line charges a premium fare (which is a different fare structure from most other Metro routes). Metro day passes are accepted as full fare, but all other pass holders must pay for an upgraded 1 zone pass or pay the additional premium charge at the time of boarding.\n\nLike the other Metro Rail and Metro Busway lines, the Silver Line operates on a proof-of-payment system. Passengers may board at either the front or rear door of Silver Line buses and validate their Transit Access Pass (TAP) electronic fare card at readers located on board the bus, near the door. Metro's fare inspectors randomly inspect buses to ensure passengers have a valid fare product on their TAP card. \n\nTAP vending machines are available at most Silver Line stations (except Carson and Pacific Coast Highway) and are located near most street stops in Downtown Los Angeles. But, because vending machines are not available at all stations and street stops, passengers who need to purchase a card or add funds can do so at the farebox on board the bus. None of the other Metro Rail or Metro Busway lines offer onboard TAP sales.\n\nAs of December 15, 2014 the fares for the Silver Line are:\n\nMetro and Foothill Transit offer a reciprocal fare program called \"Silver 2 Silver\" where pass holders may ride either Silver Line or Silver Streak buses between Downtown Los Angeles and the El Monte Station. Passengers who have a Metro 7-Day or 30-Day pass, an EZ transit pass, or a Foothill Transit Local 31-Day pass are all charged additional when they board a Silver Line or Silver Streak bus.\n\nThe El Monte Busway opened along Interstate 10 in 1973. As the new Harbor Transitway was under construction in the early 1990s, Metro drew up plans to offer a unified bus rapid transit service along both corridors, connected by street running through Downtown Los Angeles; however, eventually the agency chose to increase service on the existing Harbor Freeway express lines and operate each as independent routes, mostly at peak hours. Ridership was radically lower than expected: planners had projected that 65,200 passengers would travel along the Harbor Transitway each day, but after 10 years ridership fell far below those predictions, with the route seeing just 3,000 passengers per weekday in 2004.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Metro began depicting the two busways on its Metro Rail maps, and in 2008, Metro once again looked at the concept of linking them with a \"Dual Hub Bus Rapid Transit\" route. The service was rolled out as the Silver Line in December 2009. Five Metro Express lines were truncated to terminate at either Harbor Gateway Transit Center or the El Monte station, where passengers would transfer to the Silver Line to continue into Downtown Los Angeles. \n\nAs part of the Metro ExpressLanes project to convert the El Monte Busway and the Harbor Transitway from lanes reserved for buses and high occupancy vehicles into high occupancy toll lanes that allow solo drivers to pay a toll to use lanes, aging stations were refurbished and frequencies on the route were improved; the most drastic change was the complete reconstruction of El Monte Station which was demolished and entirely rebuilt, reopening in 2012. LADOT added bus priority to traffic lights to improve on-time performance in Downtown Los Angeles in the same year.\n\nIn 2015, Metro integrated the last remaining Metro Express route on the Harbor Transitway, the 450X to San Pedro, into the Silver Line. Originally a new express Silver Line service was added that served San Pedro and skipped many Harbor Transitway stations; but by June 2017, San Pedro-bound buses were serving all stations, the increase in speed being deemed not enough to justify increased crowding on local buses.\n\nA new transitway station for the Metro Silver Line will be located at Patsaouras Transit Plaza at Union Station to provide better access to bus, Metro Rail, Metrolink and Amtrak services. the station is under construction, and is expected to open in the spring of 2018.\n\nRidership has steadily grown on the Silver Line each year.\n\nAn estimated 6,612 passengers rode the Silver Line each weekday in January 2010 (the first full month of operation) and ridership has grown steadily each year since. Ridership set a new all-time high in February 2016 with an estimated 16,884 passengers riding the line each weekday.\n\nThe on time performance of the Metro Silver Line is currently around 82.4%, defined as being less than 5 minutes behind schedule. That places it far behind the Metro Rail lines (99% on time) and Orange Line (94% on time), but much better than an average Metro bus route (80.6% on time). On time performance benefits from the active traffic management system installed as part of the Metro ExpressLanes project.\n\nSeven passengers waiting on the northbound platform of the Harbor Freeway Station received critical and serious injuries when a private vehicle entered the station and struck the platform on February 22, 2012. After the accident Metro studied the design of the Silver Line stations and decided to add concrete filled metal bollards at the platform edge of a number of stations during August 2012. The bollards are spaced close enough to stop a car from entering the platform, but have enough room to allow multiple buses to stop at the platform and lower the accessibility ramp.\n\nThe Metro Silver Line is operated with a fleet of dedicated NABI Metro 45C \"CompoBus\" coaches. Each long bus is made of light composite materials and is powered by CNG (Compressed Natural Gas). Coaches are painted or vinyl wrapped with a special grey livery that matches the design of newer Metro Rail vehicles and the coaches used on Metro Orange Line. Most coaches also have a vinyl decal that says \"A faster way to Downtown: Metro Silver Line.\"\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "37040021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37040021", "title": "Single customer view", "text": "Single customer view\n\nA single customer view is an aggregated, consistent and holistic representation of the data held by an organisation about its customers that can be viewed in one place, such as a single page. The advantage to an organisation of attaining this unified view comes from the ability it gives to analyse past behaviour in order to better target and personalise future customer interactions. A single customer view is also considered especially relevant where organisations engage with customers through multichannel marketing, since customers expect those interactions to reflect a consistent understanding of their history and preferences. However, some commentators have challenged the idea that a single view of customers across an entire organisation is either natural or meaningful, proposing that the priority should instead be consistency between the multiple views that arise in different contexts.\n\nWhere representations of a customer are held in more than one data set, achieving a single customer view can be difficult: firstly because customer identity must be traceable between the records held in those systems, and secondly because anomalies or discrepancies in the customer data must be data cleansed. As such, the acquisition by an organisation of a single customer view is one potential outcome of successful master data management. Since 31 December, 2010, maintaining a single customer view, and submitting it within 72 hours, has become mandatory for financial institutions in the United Kingdom due to new rules introduced by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.\n\n"}
{"id": "13504765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13504765", "title": "St. Paul Street-Calvert Street", "text": "St. Paul Street-Calvert Street\n\nSt. Paul Street and Calvert Street are a one-way pair of streets in Downtown Baltimore and areas north. The streets, which are part of Maryland Route 2, are two of Baltimore's best-known streets in the downtown area.\n\nSt. Paul Street begins off Charles Street just south of Coldspring Lane near Loyola College (now renamed Loyola University Maryland) From this point on, the street runs directly parallel to North Charles Street, exactly one block east of Charles Street. It carries Maryland Route 139 in the southbound direction until intersecting North Avenue (formerly Boundary Avenue with northern city limits of 1818-1888) (U.S. Route 1), where MD 139 ends.\n\nSt. Paul Street is two ways until the intersection with 31st Street. Northbound traffic is relegated to a single northbound lane, separated by median, and with metered parallel parking.\n\nSt. Paul Street is exit 4 off the Jones Falls Expressway (I-83).\n\nApproaching the downtown area moving south between East Centre and Lexington Streets, St. Paul Street is split into two parallel, nearby streets, also being identified as St. Paul Place in this area. The wider eastern thoroughfare was the former narrow alley-like Courtland Street, once flanked by rows of small brick and stone townhouses. While the more westward of the two sides of St. Paul Street / Place intersects with all east-west streets within these blocks, the eastward opposite wider side passes under the Orleans Street Viaduct (US 40). The area between the two St. Paul Streets, landscaped into terraced gardens and parks with fountains are known as Preston Gardens, replaced a group of 1820s Georgian, Federal and Greek Revival styled architecture townhouses which had become shabby by the early 20th century along Courtland Street and the original parallel St. Paul Street and the five square blocks north to south were razed in 1919 as the city's first \"urban renewal\" project and was landscaped by Thomas Hastings. The gardens are named after Baltimore politician James H. Preston, who was mayor of the City of Baltimore (1911-1919, and a Speaker in 1894 of the Maryland House of Delegates of which he served 1890-1894.\n\n\nAs St. Paul Street is mostly one-way southbound, Calvert Street, which is directly east of St. Paul, is open to northbound traffic. North Calvert Street is a name of a portion of the street north of its intersection with East Baltimore Street. South Calvert Street is a name for the downtown portion running further south and alongside the Inner Harbor waterfront to the east.\n\nCalvert Street begins at Pratt Street near the Inner Harbor and continues through the downtown area and various north Baltimore neighborhoods before terminating in the Guilford neighborhood. of northern Baltimore.\n\nAt its railroad and Jones Falls stream crossing near I-83, Calvert Street once had an arch-style steel/iron bridge with lions sculptures at each end, though not as interesting looking as the one on nearby Charles Street or Howard Street running parallel to the west. The present crossing on Calvert Street is ordinary-looking poured concrete construction.\n\n\nAfter passing East Baltimore Street, St. Paul Street changes its name to Light Street. Light Street becomes a large, two-way street with center divider after passing East Pratt Street (which runs along the north shore of the Inner Harbor and municipal piers 1 to 6), the point where South Calvert Street begins for northbound traffic. Light Street continues through Francis Scott Key Highway (Key Highway), passing through the Federal Hill and old South Baltimore commercial district and tightly packed rowhouse neighborhoods and the Cross Street Market, one of Baltimore's formerly twelve municipal narkethouses (now down to six) until its southern terminus at Wells Street, just east of parallel South Hanover Street (Maryland Route 2), above the north shore of the Middle Branch of the Patapsco River and Baltimore Harbor.\nThe street ends by the newly planned Port Covington redevelopment. project, for the former site of War of 1812 supporting redoubt battery of Fort Covington from the Battle of Baltimore and later railyards with shipping piers for the old Western Maryland Railway from the late 1890s to early 1980s.\n\nThough quite short in length, Light Street is well known in the area, forming the western boundary of the Inner Harbor tourist area. The formerly narrow cobble-stoned waterfront street clogged with horses and wagons and later early trucks was the site of the western shore piers for East Coast/Chesapeake Bay passenger steamboats such as the Old Bay Line and others in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Today, the Harborplace shopping pavilions (1980), the glass walled Baltimore Visitors Center (2010) are located here along with the Maryland Science Center, founded 1797 was relocated here on the Light Street waterfront in 1976, and the former McCormick & Company offices and manufacturing plant for spices. flavorings and seasonings between 1889/ rebuilt 1922 to 1989 was located facing Light Street at Conway Street, opposite the Inner Harbor.\n\nLight Street is named for Darby Lux I, an early Baltimore merchant who had a house on the street.\n\n"}
{"id": "7261266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7261266", "title": "The Carling", "text": "The Carling\n\nThe Carling, formerly known as the Carling Hotel and Hotel Roosevelt, is a historic building in Jacksonville, Florida, United States built in 1925. It is located at 31 West Adams Street in Downtown Jacksonville. As its former names indicates it was originally a hotel, and was used for that purpose until 1964; it currently serves as a residential building.\n\nThe 13-story building originally contained 335 rooms and was designed by noted New York City architects \"Thompson, Holmes & Converse\" in 1925 and held in Italian Renaissance style. A newspaper story depicted it as \"300 rooms with bath, running ice water, fans and the latest equipment in the rooms. The three lower stories are faced with Indiana limestone above which is a shaft of red brick. The upper stories are trimmed with terra-cotta, and surmounted by a balustrade with limestone coping. The building is of completely fireproof construction.\" When it opened on September 1, 1926, it was one of Jacksonville's finest hotels.\nPlacement of the building was unusual at the time because it was situated in the middle of a block, rather than on a corner. It was constructed and managed by Atlanta's Dinkler Hotel Company, which owned and operated nearly two dozen upscale hotels in the southeastern United States. The facility was named after Carling L. Dinkler, who claimed to be the youngest hotel executive in the U.S.\n\nThe facility changed its name to the Hotel Roosevelt in 1936 and it was a downtown landmark for over a quarter century. A two-story addition was constructed in 1937 at the rear of the building which permits access from Monroe Street.\n\nIt was the site of the catastrophic Hotel Roosevelt fire in late December 1963, which claimed 22 lives and caused in excess of $350,000 in damage, forcing the hotel to close in 1964.\n\nAfter being vacant for nearly 20 years, the structure was turned into apartments for retirees called \"Jacksonville Regency House\", but that operation ended in 1989.\n\nOn February 28, 1991, the site was added to the U.S. National Register of Historic Places, but the building remained shuttered for almost 14 years. Little or no work was performed on the building's major components for almost 40 years; the structure's infrastructure was outdated with leaks and rot throughout.\n\nJacksonville developer Vestcor began a historic preservation of the Carling in 2003 after obtaining a $16.5 million, 1.4% interest, 20-year loan and $5 million in grants, both from the city of Jacksonville.\n\nIn late December 2009, Vestcor requested a modification to their loan terms, citing three years of operating losses on the Carling and their other renovated building, 11 East Forsyth. The company asked for three years of interest-only payments plus low interest loans to potential tenants for the mostly empty commercial space in their buildings. Three months later, the city approved the plan for principal deferral but took no action on tenant loans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8827253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8827253", "title": "Toy safety", "text": "Toy safety\n\nToy safety is the practice of ensuring that toys, especially those made for children, are safe, usually through the application of set safety standards. In many countries, commercial toys must be able to pass safety tests in order to be sold. In the U.S., some toys must meet national standards, while other toys may not have to meet a defined safety standard. In countries where standards exist, they exist in order to prevent accidents, but there have still been some high-profile product recalls after such problems have occurred. The danger is often not due to faulty design; usage and chance both play a role in injury and death incidents as well.\n\nCommon scenarios include:\n\nAccidents involving toys are quite common, with 40,000 happening each year in the United Kingdom (according to 1998 figures - data has not been collected in the UK since 2003), accounting for less than 1% of annual accidents. In 2005 in the U.S., 20 children under 15 years of age died in incidents associated with toys, and an estimated 202,300 children under 15 were treated in U.S. hospital emergency rooms for injuries associated with toys, according to data from the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission's National Electronic Injury Surveillance System. In the European Union, no fatal accidents have been reported in the European Injury Database since 2002. In Europe, home and leisure data was examined concerning injuries caused by falls to a lower level among 0-4-year-olds from Austria, Denmark, Greece, the Netherlands and Sweden. It was found that children′s use of several product categories was closely related to age. Children′s furniture account for between 21% (Netherlands) and 34% (Sweden) of the injuries from falls to a lower level in the first living year, but decreased with increasing age in all countries. The same pattern applied to strollers. In contrast, injuries due to falls involving playground equipment increased with age to reach between 13 (Greece) and 34 (Netherlands) percent of injuries from falls to a lower level among 4-year-olds. Bicycles also increase with age, reaching between 4 (Netherlands) and 17 (Denmark) percent among 4-year-olds.\n\nDistinction must be drawn between regulations and voluntary safety standards. From the table below, it can be seen that many regions model their safety standards on the EU's EN 71 standard, either directly, or through adoption of the ISO 8124 standard which itself is modelled on EN 71.\n\nIn Europe toys must meet the criteria set by the EC Toy Safety Directive (essentially that a toy be safe, which may be addressed by testing to European Standard EN71) in order for them to carry the CE mark. All European Union member states have transposed this directive into law - for example, the UK's Toy (Safety) Regulations 1995. Trading Standards Officers in the UK, similarly to appropriate authorities in the other EU member states, have the power to immediately demand the withdrawal of a toy product from sale on safety grounds via the RAPEX recall notification system (used for all products subject to European safety legislation). In Canada the government department Health Canada has the responsibility of ensuring product safety, just as the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) does in the United States. Australian and New Zealand toy safety standards (following the approximate model of the European Toy Safety Standard) have been adopted by the ISO as International Standard ISO 8124. Toy safety standards are continually updated and modified as the understanding of risks increases and new products are developed.\n\nManufacturers often display information about the intended age of the children who will play with the toy. In the U.S. this label is sometimes mandated by the CPSC, especially for toys which may present a choking hazard for children under three years of age. In most countries the intended age is either shown as a minimum age or as an age range. While one reason for this is the complexity of the toy and how much it will interest or challenge children of different ages, another is to highlight that it may be unsafe for younger children. While a toy might be \"suitable\" for children of one age, and thus this is the age \"recommended\" on the product, there may be safety hazards associated with use by a lower age group, necessitating a mandatory warning. Some manufacturers also explain the specific dangers next to the advised age (as is mandated by European and International toy safety standards EN71 and ISO 8124 respectively, but not US standard ASTM F963). Some accidents occur when babies play with toys intended for older children.\n\nIn August 2008, the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act (\"CPSIA\") was passed. Some observers are of the opinion that this new law imposes the toughest toy-making standard in the world. The CPSIA restricts the amount of lead and phthalates that may be contained in children's products (ages 12 and under) and adopts the provisions of the \"ASTM Consumer Safety Specifications for Toy Safety\" (ASTM F963-11) as the requirements of the CPSC.\n\nIn 2012 the US state of Minnesota introduced its own legislation that requires reporting information on a list of priority chemicals found in children’s products and sold in the state. This law demands all manufacturers of toys to provide the state of Minnesota with a report if their children’s products contain any of the priority chemicals such as Bisphenol A, Formaldehyde, lead or cadmium.\n\nIn Europe, the comprehensive legislation addressing toy safety is \"the Toy Safety Directive\" of the European Union (EU), (Council Directive 88/378/EEC). This directive is a list of requirements toys must comply with, and is interpreted in the laws of each member state of the EU in their respective Toy Safety Regulations (e.g.: the UK's \"Toys (Safety) Regulations 1995 (Statutory Instrument 1995 No. 204)\"). This directive has been superseded by Council Directive 2009/48/EC which will apply to toy imports into or toys produced within the EU as of 20 July 2011 except for the chemical requirements of Annex II which apply as of 20 July 2013. During these periods the corresponding requirements of the previous directive will continue to apply. Compliance with both directives leads to a CE Mark, which is a mandatory requirement denoting conformity with all applicable directives. Some items specifically excluded from this legislation are: fashion jewellery for children, Christmas decorations, and sports equipment. Official guidance on the classification of toys in the EU has been provided by the EU Commission. Where products are not classified as toys they will still be governed by the General Product Safety Directive. The toy safety directive provides for harmonised EU-wide standards on physical and mechanical properties, flammability, chemical properties and electrical properties but certain essential safety aspects of the directives are not governed by safety standards e.g. hygiene and radioactivity.\nThe Toys Safety Directive (and subsequent Member State regulations) also calls for the closest applicable national or international standards to be applied where a standard is not specified in the Directive. This interpretive clause is present to ensure that new and innovative toys are safe before being placed on the market. The EN71 Toy Safety Standard has been harmonised by the EC as the default standard which toys must meet.\nIf a toy is found to be unsafe (by breaching one of the specified standards, or by a manifest risk of injury not specified in standards) then the producer (the manufacturer, or the first importer into the EU of the product unit in question) is held to be guilty of an offence under the Toys (Safety) Regulations (or equivalent EU state law). The principle of \"due diligence\" (whereby the producer argues that all reasonable steps were taken to ensure the safety of the consumer with regards to the toy) may be used (in the UK) by the producer to avoid prosecution, fines and possible imprisonment. The unsafe toy is withdrawn from the EU market, with all member states' authorities being notified by means of the RAPEX alert system.\n\nThe new Toy Safety Directive 2009/48/EC (TSD) requires a series of safety assessments, including the Chemical Safety Assessment (CSA). If the non-chemical requirements were already enforced in July 2011, the chemical requirements are to be enforced first on 20 July 2013. In 2009, the European Union adopted the new Toy Safety Directive 2009/48/EC (TSD). The Comité Européen de Normalisation or CEN wrote these standards in order for them to be harmonized under the Toy Safety Directive. Official EU Guidance on the interpretation of the Toy Safety Directive 2009/48/EC exists and although non-binding, it has been agreed by a majority of EU Member States.\n\nChina's toy industry has been regulated since early 2007 by the expansion of the nation's compulsory certification system to include toy products.\nRegulations require a manufacturers to apply for China Compulsory Certification (CCC) from the nation's Certification and Accreditation Administration (CNCA). From 1 March, toy producers in China have been able to apply to three certification agencies nominated by the CNCA to certify their products. Toys are subject to inspection and certification review. Since 1 June 2007, no toy products without CCCs has been be allowed to leave factories, be sold or be imported into China. It is hoped this measure will mitigate the increasing international pressure on environmental protection, as well as further expand the nation's toy export market.\nThis increase in scrutiny was introduced before the 2007 Chinese export recalls.\n\nThe EU Commission expert group on toy safety regularly publishes a large number of guidance documents intended to help on interpretation issues related to the Toy Safety Directive. Toy manufacturers need stay ahead of regulatory changes and be sure that their products comply with the new requirements.\n\nTherefore, it is vital to perform tests and risk assessments for every product before selling them in the designated market. This is important for every manufacturer as they can be held liable for injuries and fatalities resulting from design flaws, use of unsuitable materials, and substandard production.\n\nThe following safety tests are performed:\n\nProduct safety/risk assessment (also known as product hazard analysis) can identify potential hazards and provide solutions early in the product life cycle to prevent products becoming stalled in production or recalled once they are released onto the market. During risk assessments for toys possible hazards and potential exposure are analyzed. Additionally the manufacturing of the toys will be controlled to ensure safety and quality throughout production.\n\nThe new European standard EN 71-4:2013 was published in 2013. It replaces and updates the 2009 version of the same standard since the latter and newest has been harmonized under the EU Toy Safety Directive. The new method is a reference test method regulating chemicals in toys and juvenile products. This gives a new test method for 'Experimental sets for chemistry and related activities' under the toy safety EN 71 series.\n\nInternational commerce plays a big role in toy safety. In the first four months of 2006, China exported US$4 billion worth of toys. The United States contributed 70 percent of the global market by exporting US$15.2 billion in toys in 2005. The European Union accounts for 75% of the final disposition of these toys. From January 2005 through September 2006, products originating in China were responsible for about 48 percent of product recalls in the U.S., and a similar percentage of notifications in the EU. Lack of process control in sub-contracted vendors has been a contributing factor in recent high-profile cases.\n\nAlthough an international toy safety standard exists, nations around the world still create their own legislation and standards to address the issue.\nCurrent toy safety standards focus on design principles and rely on batch testing of samples to assure safety. As has been seen in the large scale recalls of 2007, sample testing can miss non-conforming product. A design may be conceptually safe, but without control of the production, the design may not be met by the manufacturer. Similarly, the applicable toy safety standards to which a toy is tested by a laboratory may not discover a hazard in a product: in the case of 2007's magnetic toy recalls and the Bindeez recall, the products in question met the requirements laid down in the applicable safety standard, yet were found to present an inherent risk.\nProposed process and quality control standards, similar to the ISO 9000 systems, seek to eliminate production errors and control materials to avoid deviation from the design.\nThe creation of manufacturing quality standards for toys will help ensure consistency of production. Using a continual improvement model, production can be subject to constant scrutiny, rather than assuming the compliance of all production by testing random samples.\nIn October and November 2007, mandatory third party testing by companies such as LGA, Eurofins, Bureau Veritas or SGS Consumer Testing Services was proposed by regulators in the EU and US, to a (possibly new) international standard, requiring a new safety mark. There is no indication that the proposals will address manufacturing control.\n\nThe ability to recall a product from the market is a necessary part of any safety legislation. If existing quality and safety checks fail to detect an issue prior to sale, a systematic method of notifying the public and removing potentially hazardous products from the market is needed.\nSome toys have been discovered to have been unsafe after they have been placed on the market. Before the introduction of safety monitoring organisations the toys were simply stopped being manufactured if any action was taken at all, but since then there have been many toys that have been recalled by their manufacturer. In some notable cases the problem has only been found after the injury or even death of a person that purchased the product.\n\nChoking is the number one reason for accidents, but chemicals such as lead can also cause developmental problems like behavioral disorders and sickness. Exposure to lead can affect almost every organ and system in the human body, especially the central nervous system. Lead is especially toxic to the brains of young children. In the US, the CPSC and Customs and Border Protection are responsible for screening children's products imported into the country. Just less than 10% of products screened are stopped for violations. Nearly two thirds are stopped for lead violations and 15% are stopped for choking hazards.\n\nIn the United Kingdom toys are regulated by the Toy Product Safety Regulations 1995 which require that toys must not be sold if they do not have the correct safety labels.\n\nBatches of Bindeez were recalled in November 2007 after several children swallowed beads and were adversely affected. Upon ingestion, a chemical used in the product metabolized in the stomach into the sedative drug, GHB. The design called for a different, non-toxic chemical, but this had been substituted with an alternative chemical, which had approximately the same functional properties. The name was changed to \"Beados\" in 2008.\n\nThe Cabbage Patch Kids dolls were very popular in the 1980s across North America and many parts of Europe. The \"Cabbage Patch Kids Snacktime Kids\" line of dolls were an early 1990s incarnation designed to \"eat\" plastic snacks. The mechanism was a pair of one-way metal rollers behind a plastic slot and rubber lips, and there were 35 reported incidents in which a child's hair or finger was caught in the mouths. On 31 December 1996, after 700,000 dolls were distributed in the United States in just five months, the CPSC along with manufacturers Mattel announced that they would place warning information labels on all unsold dolls. A week later, in January 1997, CPSC and Mattel announced that all Cabbage Patch Kids Snacktime Kids were being removed from the market.\n\nLawn darts are large, weighted darts intended to be tossed underhand towards a horizontal ground target. On 19 December 1988, all lawn darts were banned from sale in the United States by the Consumer Product Safety Commission after they were responsible for the deaths of three children since 1970. In 1989, they were also banned in Canada.\n\nOne death and four serious injuries led to the recall of 3.8 million Magnetix building sets in March 2006. The magnets inside the plastic building pieces could fall out and be swallowed or aspirated.\nIn 2009, Avolio L and Martucciello G published on The New England Journal of Medicine the effects of magnetic toys ingestion in two children (\"Ingested Magnets\".Luigi Avolio, M.D., and Giuseppe Martucciello, M.D. N Engl J Med 2009; 360:2770 June 25, 2009)\nSince then MEGA Brands has implemented design enhancements to Magnetix, including sonic welding of panels, 100% inspection, gluing magnets into rods, elimination of 3+ labeling in favor of 6+ labeling after it assumed operational control of Rose Art on 1 January 2006. Only safe and improved products are currently on store shelves.\n\nIn November 2006 4.4 million Polly Pocket Quik-Clik sets were recalled by Mattel after children in the United States swallowed loose magnetic parts. The toys had been sold around the world commencing three years previous.\n\nClackers were discontinued when reports came out of children becoming injured while playing with them and after a ruling in United States v. Article Consisting of 50,000 Cardboard Boxes More or Less, Each Containing One Pair of Clacker Balls that they were hazards in the United States. Fairly heavy and fast-moving, and made of hard acrylic plastic, the balls would occasionally shatter upon striking each other.\n\nThe CSPC issued a voluntary Razor scooter recall, specifically targeting the Razor PowerWing three-wheeled scooters. Around 103,000 Razor scooters were affected by this recall. The reason for the Razor scooter recall is that the underside of the foot platform can have sharp edges, thus leading to a laceration hazard to kids who are riding the vehicle.\n\nUsing the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (http://www.cpsc.gov/LIBRARY/data.html) figures the number of annual reported child toy-related deaths and injuries, compared with CPSC expenditure and total toy sales in the US by year are tabulated below.\n\n†Amount no longer given but combined with other categories—this is sometimes done to give an agency added flexibility; however, at times this is done to falsely show an increase in funding when there is no way to assess how much will be spent for a specific task.\n\nAnnual CPSC Reports to Congress containing toy-related emergency room injuries and deaths.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49928179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49928179", "title": "Vietnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry", "text": "Vietnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry\n\nVietnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry (VCCI) is a national organization which assembles and represents business community, employers and business associations of all economic sectors in Vietnam. To promote trade and business relations with enterprises abroad is one of its main functions. VCCI is an independent, non-governmental, non-profit organization having the status of a legal entity and operating with financial autonomy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51479610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51479610", "title": "Willy Bett", "text": "Willy Bett\n\nWilly Bett is a Kenyan politician and the current Kenyan Ambassador to India. He is the former Cabinet Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Fisheries. He held the post from December 2015 to January 26, 2018. Prior to this, he was the managing director of the Kenya Seed Company. He vastly improved the company's standing, taking revenue from 2.9 billion KES to 5.0 billion KES, and profit from 50 million KES to 434 million KES. Before that, he was a marketing manager at the Kenyan Postbank for 18 years. He holds an MBA from the University of Nairobi.\n\nCorruption Allegations\nMr. Bett is currently the Kenyan Ambassador to India, following a cabinet reshuffle that saw William Ruto's right hand man from Postbank, Kenya seed and Agriculture ministry moved due to abuse of office.\n"}
