{"id": "50639096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50639096", "title": "Albert Lindsay von Julin", "text": "Albert Lindsay von Julin\n\nAlbert Ludvig Lindsay von Julin (2 August 1871 — 8 May 1944) was a Finnish engineer, businessman and vuorineuvos.\n\nJulin was born in Pohja to an industrial family. After his studies he spent for few years gaining work experience in Caucasus, after which he returned in Finland to manage his family business, the Fiskars company. Julin led the company for almost 40 years growing it one of the largest companies of Finland.\n\nJulin had also a significant role at creating the Finnish employers' associations. He took part in the last Diet of Finland in 1904–1905 and in local politics in Pohja.\n\nJulin was born in Fiskars, Pohja; his parents were Emil Lindsay von Julin, manager and co-owner of the local Fiskars ironworks, and Hildur née Kistner. Julin family was an influential Finnish industrialist family. He graduated in 1890 in private Finland-Swedish reallyceum in Hamina. Julin went to study in Faculty of Chemistry in Finnish Polytechnical Institute and he graduated engineer in 1894. He continued his studies in Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, Sweden and graduated as mining engineer in 1895. Subsequently, Julin travelled around Europe visiting number of mining and engineering companies. He worked for Branobel in Baku, Caucasus in 1896–1900.\n\nJulin returned to Finland in 1900 and became engineer in Fiskars. In 1904 he was appointed managing director and in 1906 he became the company general director. Julin invested on the premises and took over a number of companies, such as Billnäs Bruks, Tyko Bruks, Inha Bruks and Finska Bult. The subsidiaries continued operation as independent units. By year 1920 Fiskars had regained its position as a significant company, being the tenth largest company of the newly independent Finland and the second largest engineering company after the State Railways Engineering Works.\n\nJulin managed Fiskars for almost 40 years, until 1942. As a manager he was an old-school industrialist who was against labourism; however, he was respected as a manager and negotiation partner by his employees. Albert Lindsay von Julin was the last director of the company from the Julin family.\n\nJulin was founding member of the 1903 created Finnish Engineering Industry Employers' Association, and he was one of the employers' leaders in the industrial actions which emerged in the early 20th century. In 1908 he took part in founding the Finnish Engineering Industry Bureau and later the Finnish Industry Bureau. Julin was involved in creation of Finnish Engineering Industry Association and in 1921 formed Finnish Industry Federation; he was a long-term member in the both organisations.\n\nJulin was municipality council member in Pohja and supported the local folk college. He took part in the last Diet of Finland in 1905–1906 as member of the nobility.\n\nJulin was married to Elin Constance née Blomberg. The couple had son Albert von Julin who died at young age during the Finnish Civil War in 1918 as a victim of red terror, and daughter Maggie.\n\nJulin is characterised as a warm and social person who had a large circle of friends. His social character led to increased alcohol intake which gave him nickname \"Punschen\". By time Julin's drinking started to effect on his work as Fiskars manager.\n\n"}
{"id": "32272769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32272769", "title": "Arash Ferdowsi", "text": "Arash Ferdowsi\n\nArash Ferdowsi (, born October 7, 1985) is an Iranian-American billionaire entrepreneur. He is the co-founder of Dropbox.\n\nFerdowsi was born in Overland Park, Kansas, US on 7 October 1985, the son of Iranian immigrants Gholam Ferdowsi (b. 1950) and Tahmineh \"Tammy\" Faridazar (b. 1959). Ferdowsi's father, a mortgage broker, is a native of Tabriz in northwestern Iran. His parents met and married in 1984, while students at the University of Central Missouri and the University of Missouri–Kansas City, respectively. They settled in the US following the 1979 Iranian Revolution.\n\nHe attended Blue Valley Northwest High School, a public high school in Overland Park, graduating first in his class in 2004. Ferdowsi went on to study electrical engineering and computer science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), dropping out of his program in his last year to focus on his business.\n\nFerdowsi launched Dropbox in June 2007 with his business partner, Drew Houston, at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In September 2007, Ferdowsi moved his company to San Francisco and raised venture capital from Sequoia Capital, Accel Partners, Y Combinator, and a handful of individual investors. In March 2018, Dropbox underwent an initial public offering, valuing the company at around USD 9.2 billion.\n\nFrom the company's establishment in June 2007 until October 2016, Ferdowsi served as the chief technology officer (CTO) of Dropbox. He remains a member of Dropbox's management team and board of directors.\n\n"}
{"id": "24029646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24029646", "title": "Arthur B. Guise Medal", "text": "Arthur B. Guise Medal\n\nThe Arthur B. Guise Medal is awarded annually by the Society of Fire Protection Engineers and recognizes eminent achievement in the advancement of the science and technology of fire protection engineering and is named in memory of the achievements of Arthur Guise.\n\nSource: SFPE\n"}
{"id": "31932436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31932436", "title": "Association of National Accountants of Nigeria", "text": "Association of National Accountants of Nigeria\n\nThe Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) is one of the two professional accountancy associations with regulatory authority in Nigeria, the other being the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN).\nA consultant offering financial services in Nigeria must be a member of either ANAN or ICAN.\n\nANAN was founded on 1 January 1979 and was incorporated on 28 September 1983. The Association was chartered on 25 August 1993 by Decree 76 of 1993.\nThe governing council of ANAN is elected by its members.\nIt includes representatives of the Auditors General of the Federation, State and Local Government, and representatives of universities and polytechnics.\n\nBefore being admitted to ANAN members must undertake academic studies, including one year at ANAN’s Nigerian College of Accountancy, followed by a two-year practical accountant-in-training program, leading to qualification as a Certified National Accountant.\nANAN members must comply with its Professional Code of Conduct, which complies with International Federation of Accountants requirements.\nAs of December 2007 ANAN had total membership of 10,260.\nBy December 2010 membership had grown to 16,207.\n\nANAN was admitted as a member of the Association of Professional Bodies of Nigeria on 7 December 2010.\nANAN is also a member of the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRCN), which sets accounting standards for the country.\nBoth ANAN and ICAN nominate two members to the NASB board.\n\nANAN is an institutional member of the International Association for Accounting Education & Research (IAAER). \nANAN is a correspondent member of XBRL International, which is developing a standard for electronic representation of accounting information.\nBoth ANAN and ICAN work with the United Kingdom-based Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA) to promote best practices in the profession.\nAs of March 2011, ANAN had applied to become a member of the Association of Accountancy Bodies in West Africa (ABWA)., now listed as Council member of ABWA\nANAN was recently admitted into membership of Pan African Federation of Accountants.\nANAN is now a member of International Federation of Accountants(IFAC)—\n\nBoth ANAN and its rival ICAN, as well as the CITN (Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria), have been criticized for not providing enough training to members at subsidized rates.\nHowever, ANAN operates a training school for accountants in Jos, Plateau State.\nAt a ceremony in March 2006 the President of ANAN, Professor E. R. Iwok, laid the foundation stone of an ultra-modern auditorium for the Nigerian College of Accountancy. \nHe said that ANAN planned to build the leading accountancy campus in Africa and to make Jos the Mecca of the accountancy profession.\nAs of March 2011 the college, which was attracting growing numbers of students from other countries in Africa, was still operating out of temporary facilities.\nThe only buildings completed at the permanent site were two large examination halls with capacity of 3,000.\nThe college is a University Member of IAAER.\n\nIn its charter, the government gave ANAN the authority needed to compete with ICAN. By 1994 the two organizations were fighting for control of the Chartered Accountants profession.\nIn 2002 ICAN applied to the courts to disqualify and/or bar Mr Clement Akpamgbo from representing ANAN, and the matter was referred to a lower court. ANAN appealed the decision, but the appeal was dismissed for lack of merit.\nIn November 2007 a Federal High Court in Lagos dismissed a suit by ICAN requesting the court to declare that the decree establishing ANAN was void.\n\nIn March 2009, ANAN President Dr Samuel Nzekwe rejected an attempt by ICAN to set auditing standards for its members.\nHe said that the Nigerian Accounting Standards Board (NASB) Act 2003 said that only the board could set standards for the accounting profession.\nIn June 2010 Mr. Godson Nnadi, Executive Secretary of Nigeria Accounting Standards Board, spoke in favor of a new body to set accounting and auditing standards for Nigeria and other African nations. The new body would be independent of both ANAN and ICAN.\n\nIn May 2008 the House of Representatives rejected a bill to establish the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants of Nigeria (CIMA) as an alternative to both the ANAN and ICAN. The House was concerned about proliferation of accounting bodies.\nIn December 2009 were delays in passage by the Senate of bills on the Institute of Chartered Public Accountants (CPA) and the Chartered Institute of Management and Cost Accountants (CIMCA).\nThe bills had been approved by both houses during the administration of President Olusegun Obasanjo, but he had failed to sign them into law before the end of his term. As a result, President Umaru Yar'Adua had to resubmit the bills when he took office in 2007.\nANAN did not object to the new organizations but ICAN expressed concerns on the grounds of proliferation.\n\nIn May 2012, ICAN President Prof. Francis Ojaide, has said the body and the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria have smoothed their relationship for the benefit of the nation’s economy.\n\nSpeaking in August 2009, the ANAN President Chief (Mrs). Iyamide Gafar criticized the recent dismissal of the heads of five banks as being selective, with just five scapegoats. Saying that the problems were more widespread, she also advocated more frequent rotation of accountants and auditors between banks to prevent them from getting too close to management.\n\nIn September 2009 it was alleged that the Comptroller General of the Nigerian Customs Service, Abdullahi Inde Dikko, had obtained a fake West African Examinations Council (WAEC) certificate dated 1980.\nIt was said that when ICAN discovered the fake, Dikko abandoned an attempt to become a fellow of ICAN and instead opted for ANAN membership.\nThese allegations were later proven false, and the police declared Dikko's accuser Olajide Ibrahim wanted for making false allegations. \nIn October 2010 President Goodluck Jonathan spoke at the Annual National Conference of ANAN.\nHe challenged his audience to champion transparency and fight corruption by refusing to allow manipulation of accounting records and processes for corrupt purposes.\n\nThe ANAN donated a research center to the Nasarawa State University, Keffi, which was opened in May 2011, possibly the first donation of this type in Nigeria. The purpose of research would be to find ways to ensure that the Accountancy profession meets its goals in effective public and private sector service delivery.\nOn 29 April 2011 the first female auditor-general of Kogi State, Maryam Ladi-Ibrahim, succeeded Iyamide Gafar as ANAN President.\nJohnson.O.Oluata FCNA represents ANAN at the National Conference \n"}
{"id": "10470536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10470536", "title": "Azman Hashim", "text": "Azman Hashim\n\nTan Sri Dato' Azman bin Hashim, AO (born July 1939 in Kuala Lumpur) is a Malaysian financier. He is one of the richest people in Malaysia and his net worth is estimated by Forbes to be US$600 million, making him the 9th richest person in Malaysia .\n\nTan Sri Dato’ Azman Hashim was born in July 1939 in Kuala Lumpur to a family of thirteen siblings and spent his childhood in Kampung Baru, Kuala Lumpur. His father was a strict disciplinarian and his mother was a school teacher who later became headmistress of the Kampung Baru Girls’ School. In 1954, he sat for the Senior Cambridge Examination and obtained a first grade. He was offered accountancy on a Colombo Plan Scholarship which took him to Australia from 1955 to 1960. He became a Chartered Accountant and Chartered Secretary before the age of 21. He became a Fellow of both the Chartered Institute of Accountants, Australia (FCA Australia) and the Institute of Chartered Secretaries & Administrators (FCIS) in 1960. Later he also became a Fellow of the Institute of Bankers, Malaysia, the Institute of Directors, Malaysia and the Malaysian Institute of Management.\n\nTan Sri Dato’ Azman Hashim is a corporate figure. His experience began in Perth, Australia where he was employed by Messrs O.L. Haines & Co (Chartered Accountants) from 1955-1960. In 1960, he returned to serve with Bank Negara Malaysia until May 1964 when he left to start his own accountancy practice of Azman & Co which later grew into a partnership, Azman Wong Salleh & Co (Chartered Accountants). He then joined the Board of Malayan Banking Berhad in 1966 and was its Executive Director from 1971 to 1980. He was appointed Executive Chairman of Kwong Yik Bank Berhad in 1980 until 1982 when he became Chairman of the AmBank Group until today. Currently, Tan Sri Dato’ Azman Hashim is Executive Chairman of Amcorp Group Berhad and Chairman of several subsidiaries of the AmBank Group and also Amcorp Properties Berhad.\n\nTan Sri Dato’Azman is Chairman of the\n\nand President of\n\nHe is also a Member of the\n\nHe also serves as the Treasurer for the Malaysia-US Private Sector Consultative Group and the Malaysia-Australia Foundation and also Vice-Chairman of the Malaysian Business Council and one of the Governors of the Japanese Chamber of Trade and Industry (JACTIM) Malaysia Foundation. He is also one of the trustees for Malaysian Liver Foundation, Better Malaysia Foundation, ECM Libra Foundation in addition to the AmGroup Foundation. Tan Sri Azman Hashim sits on the Board of Directors for the Asian Institute of Finance.\n\nHis past involvement included the Chairmanship of :\n\nTan Sri Dato’ Azman Hashim has been awarded numerous honours. His first award was the Darjah ”Kesatria Mangku Negara”, by His Majesty Yang DiPertuan Agong in 1972; His Royal Highness the Sultan of Selangor honoured him with the ”Darjah Dato’ Paduka Mahkota Selangor\" (DPMS) in 1980 which carried the title Dato’; this was followed by the ”Johan Mahkota Negara” (JMN) awarded by His Majesty Yang DiPertuan Agong in 1984. The Asian Finance magazine named him ”Asia’s Banker of the Year” in 1985. This was followed by His Majesty Yang DiPertuan Agong awarding him the ”Darjah Panglima Setia Mahkota” (PSM) in 1988 which bestowed on him the title ”Tan Sri”.\n\nIn 1993, the ASEAN Business Forum (formerly known as the ASEAN Institute) presented him with the ”ASEAN Businessman of the Year” award. This was followed in 1995 by the ”Manager of the Year” award from the Harvard Business School Alumni Club of Malaysia. The Kuala Lumpur Malay Chamber of Commerce awarded him with the ”Grand Entrepreneurial Award” in June 1996 and a year later he received the ”Menteri Besar Grand Entrepreneurial Award” from the Selangor Chamber of Commerce in 1997. The \"Academy Values for Life Excellence” was awarded for his humanitarian contribution in 2004. He received a lifetime achievement award, at 4th Annual Islamic Business and Finance Awards 2009.\n\nHe is an Honorary Officer of the Order of Australia.\n\nHe married with Tunku Arishah Tunku Maamor on 3 March 1963 and has two sons, three daughters and ten grandchildren. One of his daughters is a local artist, Shazrina or popularly known as Mizz Nina.\n\n"}
{"id": "14997900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14997900", "title": "Business Nation", "text": "Business Nation\n\nBusiness Nation, which debuted on January 24, 2007, is a monthly hour-long newsmagazine airing on CNBC, focusing on the stories behind the business headlines. This program also reveals the stories of business, finance, and the economy that touch the lives of all Americans.\n\nHosted by David Faber, each edition of the program, which presents three stories a month, features a mixture of profiles, investigative pieces, exclusive interviews, and features. \"Business Nation\" is also the first regularly scheduled newsmagazine to focus solely on the business world. The format of this program is structured similarly to HBO's \"Real Sports\".\n\n\"Business Nation\" won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Investigative Reporting in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "13931631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13931631", "title": "Civilekonom", "text": "Civilekonom\n\nCivilekonom, literally \"civil economist\", is a professional title in Sweden (with corresponding titles in Denmark and Norway, see below) which traditionally refers to an individual who holds either a Bachelor's degree or a Master's degree in business administration and economics (with a major in business administration and a minor in economics, or vice versa). Unlike the English language usage, in Swedish, \"ekonomi\" (\"economy\") is commonly used as an umbrella designation for both business- and economics-related subjects.\n\nAs an academic title it was first introduced by the Stockholm School of Economics for the degree that the school offered, and was created in parallel to the already established engineering degree , which etymologically is the same as the English expression civil engineer.\n\nFormally, the exam certificate for a \"civilekonom\" would say \"ekonomexamen\" (\"degree in economy\"), or be a general Bachelor's (\"kandidat\") or Master's (\"magister\") degree.\n\nAlthough the title remains unprotected in Sweden and the aforementioned practice is still in use, as of 2007 a new academic degree called \"Civilekonomexamen\" (Master of Science in Business and Economics) has been introduced which can be awarded after four years of studies in business administration and economics by the following universities in Sweden:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "180472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180472", "title": "Consumer privacy", "text": "Consumer privacy\n\nConsumer privacy is a form of information privacy concerned with the legal and political issues arising from the interaction of the public's expectation of privacy with the collection and dissemination of data by businesses or merchants. Consumer privacy concerns date back to the first commercial couriers and bankers who enforced strong measures to protect customer privacy. In modern times, the ethical codes of most professions specify measures to protect customer privacy, including medical privacy, client confidentiality, and national security. Since most organizations have a competitive incentive to retain exclusive access to customer data, and since customer trust is usually a priority, many companies adopt security engineering measures to protect customer privacy.\n\nConsumer privacy protection is the use of laws and regulations to protect individuals from privacy loss due to the failures and limitations of corporate customer privacy measures. Corporations may be inclined to share data for commercial advantage and fail to officially recognize it as sensitive to avoid legal liability in the chance that lapses of security may occur. Modern consumer privacy law originated from telecom regulation when it was recognized that a telephone company had access to unprecedented levels of information. Customer privacy measures were seen as deficient to deal with the many hazards of corporate data sharing, corporate mergers, employee turnover, and theft of data storage devices (e.g., hard drives) that could store a large amount of data in a portable location.\n\nConsumer privacy concerns date back to the first commercial couriers and bankers who enforced strong measures to protect customer privacy. Harsh punitive measures were passed as the result of failing to keep a customer's information private. In modern times, the ethical codes of most professions specify privacy measures for the consumer of any service, including medical privacy, client confidentiality, and national security. These codes are particularly important in a carceral state, where no privacy in any form nor limits on state oversight or data use exists.\n\nCorporate customer privacy practices are approaches taken by commercial organizations to ensure that confidential customer data is not stolen or abused. Since most organizations have strong competitive incentives to retain exclusive access to these data, and since customer trust is usually a high priority, most companies take some security engineering measures to protect customer privacy. There is also a concern that companies may sell consumer data if they have to declare bankruptcy, although it often violates their own privacy policies. These vary in effectiveness, and would not typically meet the much higher standards of client confidentiality applied by ethical codes or legal codes in banking or law, nor patient privacy measures in medicine, nor rigorous national security measures in military and intelligence organizations.\n\nSince they operate for-profit, commercial organizations also cannot spend unlimited funds on precautions while remaining competitive; a commercial context tends to limit privacy measures and to motivate organizations to share data when working in partnership. The damage done by privacy loss is not measurable, nor can it be undone, and commercial organizations have little or no interest in taking unprofitable measures to drastically increase the privacy of customers. Corporations may be inclined to share data for commercial advantage and fail to officially recognize it as sensitive to avoid legal liability in the chance that lapses of security may occur. This has led to many moral hazards and customer privacy violation incidents.\n\nSome services—notably telecommunications, including Internet—require collecting a vast array of information about users’ activities in the course of business, and may also require consultation of these data to prepare bills. In the US and Canada, telecom data must be kept for seven years to permit dispute and consultation about phone charges. These sensitivities have led telecom regulation to be a leader in consumer privacy regulation, enforcing a high level of confidentiality on the sensitive customer communication records.\n\nFocusing on telecom has been outmoded to some degree as other industries also gather sensitive data. Such common commercial measures as software-based customer relationship management, rewards programs, and target marketing tend to drastically increase the amount of information gathered (and sometimes shared). These very drastically increase privacy risks and have accelerated the shift to regulation, rather than relying on the corporate desire to preserve goodwill.\n\nConcerns have led to consumer privacy laws in most countries, especially in the European Union, Australia, New Zealand and Canada. Notably, among developed countries, the United States has no such law and relies on corporate customer privacy disclosed in privacy policies to ensure consumer privacy in general. Modern privacy law and regulation may be compared to parts of the Hippocratic Oath, which includes a requirement for doctors to avoid mentioning the ills of patients to others—not only to protect them, but to protect their families— and also recognizes that innocent third parties can be harmed by the loss of control of sensitive personal information.\n\nModern consumer privacy law originated from telecom regulation when it was recognized that a telephone company—especially a monopoly (known in many nations as a PTT)—had access to unprecedented levels of information: the direct customer's communication habits and correspondents and the data of those who shared the household. Telephone operators could frequently hear conversations—inadvertently or deliberately—and their job required them to dial the exact numbers. The data gathering required for the process of billing began to become a privacy risk as well. Accordingly, strong rules on operator behaviour, customer confidentiality, records keeping and destruction were enforced on telephone companies in every country. Typically only police and military authorities had legal powers to wiretap or see records. Even stricter requirements emerged for various banks' electronic records In some countries, financial privacy is a major focus of the economy, with severe criminal penalties for violating it.\n\nThrough the 1970s many other organizations in developed nations began to acquire sensitive data, but there were few or no regulations in place to prevent them from sharing or abusing the data. Customer trust and goodwill were generally thought to be sufficient in first-world countries, notably the United States, to ensure the protection of truly sensitive data; \"caveat emptor\" was applied in these situations. But in the 1980s, smaller organizations also began to get access to computer hardware and software, and these simply did not have the procedures or personnel or expertise, nor less the time, to take rigorous measures to protect their customers. Meanwhile, via target marketing and rewards programs, companies were acquiring ever more data.\n\nGradually, customer privacy measures were seen as deficient to deal with the many hazards of corporate data sharing, corporate mergers, employee turnover, and theft of data storage devices (e.g., hard drives) that could store a large amount of data in a portable location. Explicit regulation of consumer privacy gained further support, especially in the European Union, where each nation had laws that were incompatible (e.g., some restricted the collection, some the compilation, and some the dissemination of data); it was possible to violate privacy within the EU simply doing these things from different places in the European Common Market as it existed before 1992.\n\nThrough the 1990s, the proliferation of mobile telecom, the introduction of customer relationship management, and the use of the Internet in developed nations brought the situation to the forefront, and most countries had to implement strong consumer privacy laws, often over the objections of business. The European Union and New Zealand passed particularly strong laws that were used as a template for more limited laws in Australia and Canada and some states of the United States (where no federal law for consumer privacy exists, although there are requirements specific to banking and telecom privacy). In Austria around the 1990s, the mere mention of a client's name in a semi-public social setting was enough to earn a junior bank executive a stiff jail sentence.\n\nAfter the terrorist attacks against the United States on September 11, 2001, privacy took a back-seat to national security in legislators' minds. Accordingly, concerns of consumer privacy in the United States have tended to go unheard of as questions of citizen privacy versus the state, and the development of a police state or carceral state, have occupied advocates of strong privacy measures. Whereas it may have appeared prior to 2002 that commercial organizations and the consumer data they gathered were of primary concern, it has appeared since then in most developed nations to be much less of a concern than political privacy and medical privacy (e.g., as violated by biometrics). Indeed, people have recently been stopped at airports solely due to their political views, and there appears to be minimal public will to stop practices of this nature.\n\n"}
{"id": "3789525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3789525", "title": "Corporate recovery", "text": "Corporate recovery\n\nA corporate recovery is a rescue undertaken by professional accountants, who are trained to assist the management of a company in financial and other difficulties. This work is usually undertaken at the behest of the directors of the company and is normally undertaken by licensed insolvency practitioners.\n"}
{"id": "75863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75863", "title": "Cyrus McCormick", "text": "Cyrus McCormick\n\nCyrus Hall McCormick (February 15, 1809 – May 13, 1884) was an American inventor and businessman who founded the McCormick Harvesting Machine Company, which later became part of the International Harvester Company in 1902. From the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia, he and many members of his family became prominent residents of Chicago.\n\nMcCormick has been simplistically credited as the single inventor of the mechanical reaper. However, he was one of several designing engineers who produced successful models in the 1830s. His efforts built on more than two decades of work by his father Robert McCormick Jr., as well as the aid of Jo Anderson, a slave held by his family. He also successfully developed a modern company, with manufacturing, marketing, and a sales force to market his products.\n\nCyrus McCormick was born on February 15, 1809 in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia. He was the eldest of eight children born to inventor Robert McCormick Jr. (1780–1846) and Mary Ann \"Polly\" Hall (1780–1853). As Cyrus' father saw the potential of the design for a mechanical reaper, he applied for a patent to claim it as his own invention. He worked for 28 years on a horse-drawn mechanical reaper to harvest grain; however, he was never able to reproduce a reliable version.\n\nCyrus took up the project. He was aided by Jo Anderson, an enslaved African American on the McCormick plantation at the time. A few machines based on a design of Patrick Bell of Scotland (which had not been patented) were available in the United States in these years. The Bell machine was pushed by horses. The McCormick design was pulled by horses and cut the grain to one side of the team.\n\nCyrus McCormick held one of his first demonstrations of mechanical reaping at the nearby village of Steeles Tavern, Virginia in 1831. He claimed to have developed a final version of the reaper in 18 months. The young McCormick was granted a patent on the reaper on June 21, 1834, two years after having been granted a patent for a self-sharpening plow. However, none were sold, because the machine could not handle varying conditions.\n\nThe McCormick family also worked together in a blacksmith/metal smelting business. The panic of 1837 almost caused the family to go into bankruptcy when a partner pulled out. In 1839 McCormick started doing more public demonstrations of the reaper, but local farmers still thought the machine was unreliable. He did sell one in 1840, but none for 1841.\n\nUsing the endorsement of his father's first customer for a machine built by McPhetrich, Cyrus continuously attempted to improve the design. He finally sold seven reapers in 1842, 29 in 1843, and 50 in 1844. They were all built manually in the family farm shop. \nHe received a second patent for reaper improvements on January 31, 1845.\nAs word spread about the reaper, McCormick noticed orders arriving from farther west, where farms tended to be larger and the land flatter. While he was in Washington, DC to get his 1845 patent, he heard about a factory in Brockport, New York, where he contracted to have the machines mass-produced. He also licensed several others across the country to build the reaper, but their quality often proved poor, which hurt the product's reputation.\n\nIn 1847, after their father's death, Cyrus and his brother Leander (1819–1900) moved to Chicago, where they established a factory to build their machines. At the time, other cities in the midwestern United States, such as Cleveland, Ohio, St. Louis, Missouri, and Milwaukee, Wisconsin, were more established and prosperous. Chicago had no paved streets at the time, but the city had the best water transportation from the east over the Great Lakes for his raw materials, as well as railroad connections to the farther west where his customers would be.\n\nWhen McCormick tried to renew his patent in 1848, the US Patent Office noted that a similar machine had already been patented by Obed Hussey a few months earlier. McCormick claimed he had really invented his machine in 1831, but the renewal was denied. William Manning of Plainfield, New Jersey had also received a patent for his reaper in May 1831, but at the time, Manning was evidently not defending his patent.\n\nMcCormick's brother William (1815–1865) moved to Chicago in 1849, and joined the company to take care of financial affairs. The McCormick reaper sold well, partially as a result of savvy and innovative business practices. Their products came onto the market just as the development of railroads offered wide distribution to distant markets. McCormick developed marketing and sales techniques, developing a wide network of salesmen trained to demonstrate operation of the machines in the field, as well as to get parts quickly and repair machines in the field if necessary during crucial times in the farm year.\n\nA company advertisement was a take-off of the \"Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way\" mural by Emanuel Leutze; it added to the title: \"with McCormick Reapers in the Van.\"\n\nIn 1851, McCormick traveled to London to display a reaper at the Crystal Palace Exhibition. After his machine successfully harvested a field of green wheat while the Hussey machine failed, he won a gold medal and was admitted to the Legion of Honor. His celebration was short-lived after he learned that he had lost a court challenge to Hussey's patent.\n\nAnother McCormick Company competitor was John Henry Manny of Rockford, Illinois. After the Manny Reaper beat the McCormick version at the Paris Exposition of 1855, McCormick filed a lawsuit against Manny for patent infringement. McCormick demanded that Manny stop producing reapers, and pay McCormick $400,000.\n\nThe trial, originally scheduled for Chicago in September 1855, featured prominent lawyers on both sides. McCormick hired the former US Attorney General Reverdy Johnson and New York patent attorney Edward Nicholl Dickerson. Manny hired George Harding and Edwin M. Stanton. Because the trial was set to take place in Illinois, Harding hired the local Illinois lawyer Abraham Lincoln. However, the trial was moved to Cincinnati, Ohio. Manny won the case, with an opinion by the State Supreme Court Judge John McLean. Lincoln did not contribute to the defense. Stanton had objected to Lincoln's presence, referring to him as \"that damned long armed ape.\" After later being elected President, Lincoln chose Stanton as his Secretary of War.\nIn 1856, McCormick's factory was producing more than 4000 reapers each year, mostly sold in the Midwest and West. However, in 1861, Hussey's patent was extended but McCormick's was not. McCormick's outspoken opposition to Lincoln and the anti-slavery Republican party may not have helped his cause. McCormick decided to seek help from the US Congress to protect his patent.\n\nIn 1871, the factory burned down in the Great Chicago Fire, but McCormick heeded his wife's advice to rebuild, and it reopened in 1873 even as McCormick's health declined, so she took a greater role in the family's business as well as philanthropic affairs. In 1879, brother Leander changed the company's name from \"Cyrus H. McCormick and Brothers\" to \"McCormick Harvesting Machine Company\". He wanted to acknowledge the contributions of others in the family to the reaper \"invention\" and company, especially their father.\n\nOn January 26, 1858, 49-year-old Cyrus McCormick married his secretary Nancy \"Nettie\" Fowler (1835–1923). She was an orphan from New York who had graduated from the Troy Female Seminary and moved to Chicago. They had met two years earlier and shared views about business, religion and Democratic party politics. They had seven children:\n\nMary and Stanley both suffered from schizophrenia. Stanley McCormick's life inspired the 1998 novel \"Riven Rock\" by T. Coraghessan Boyle.\n\nCyrus McCormick was an uncle of Robert Sanderson McCormick (son-in-law of Joseph Medill); granduncle of Joseph Medill McCormick and Robert Rutherford McCormick; and great-granduncle of William McCormick Blair Jr.\n\nMcCormick had always been a devout Presbyterian, as well as advocate of Christian unity. He also valued and demonstrated in his life the Calvinist traits of self-denial, sobriety, thriftiness, efficiency, and morality. He believed feeding the world, made easier by the reaper, was part of his religious mission in life.\n\nA lifelong Democrat, before the American Civil War, McCormick had published editorials in his newspapers, \"The Chicago Times\" and \"Herald\", calling for reconciliation between the national sections. His views, however, were unpopular in his adopted home town. Although his invention helped feed Union troops, McCormick believed the Confederacy would not be defeated and he and his wife traveled extensively in Europe during the war. McCormick unsuccessfully ran for Congress as a Democrat with a peace-now platform in 1864, and was soundly defeated. He also proposed a peace plan to include a Board of Arbitration. After the war, McCormick helped found the Mississippi Valley Society, with a mission to promoted New Orleans and Mississippi ports for European trade. He also supported efforts to annex Santa Domingo into the United States. Beginning in 1872, McCormick served a four-year term on the Illinois Democratic Party's Central Committee. McCormick later proposed an international mechanism to control food production and distribution.\n\nMcCormick also became the principal benefactor and a trustee of what had been the Theological Seminary of the Northwest, which moved to Chicago's Lincoln Park neighborhood in 1859, a year in which he endowed four professorships. The institution was renamed McCormick Theological Seminary in 1886, after his death, although it moved to Chicago's Hyde Park neighborhood in 1975 and began sharing facilities with the Lutheran School of Theology at Chicago.\n\nIn 1869, McCormick donated $10,000 to help Dwight L. Moody start the Young Men's Christian Association, and his son Cyrus Jr. would become the first president of the Moody Bible Institute.\n\nMcCormick and later his widow, Nettie Day McCormick, also donated significant sums to Tusculum College, a Presbyterian institution in Tennessee, as well as to establish churches and Sunday Schools in the South after the war, even though that region was slow to adopt his farm machinery and improved practices. Also, in 1872, McCormick purchased a religious newspaper, the \"Interior\", which he renamed the \"Continent\" and became a leading Presbyterian periodical.\n\nFor the last 20 years of his life, McCormick was a benefactor and member of the board of trustees at Washington and Lee University in his native Virginia. His brother Leander also donated funds to build an observatory on Mount Jefferson, operated by the University of Virginia and named the McCormick Observatory.\n\nDuring the last four years of his life, McCormick became an invalid, after a stroke paralyzed his legs; he was unable to walk during his final two years. He died at home in Chicago on May 13, 1884. He was buried in Graceland Cemetery. He was survived by his widow, Nettie, who continued his Christian and charitable activities, within the United States and abroad, between 1890 and her death in 1923, donating $8 million (over $160 million in modern equivalents) to hospitals, disaster and relief agencies, churches, youth activities and educational institutions, and becoming the leading benefactress of Presbyterian Church activities in that era.\n\nOfficial leadership of the company passed to his eldest son Cyrus Hall McCormick Jr., but his grandson Cyrus McCormick III ran the company. Four years later, the company's labor practices (paying workers $9 per week) led to the Haymarket riots. Ultimately Cyrus Jr. teamed with J.P. Morgan to create the International Harvester Corporation in 1902. After Cyrus Hall McCormick Jr., Harold Fowler McCormick ran International Harvester. Various members of the McCormick family continued involvement with the corporation until Brooks McCormick, who died in 2006.\n\nNumerous prizes and medals were awarded McCormick for his reaper, which reduced human labor on farms while increasing productivity. Thus, it contributed to the industrialization of agriculture as well as migration of labor to cities in numerous wheat-growing countries (36 by McCormick's death). The French government named McCormick an Officier de la Légion d'honneur in 1851, and he was elected a corresponding member of the French Academy of Sciences in 1878 \"as having done more for the cause of agriculture than any other living man.\"\n\nThe Wisconsin Historical Society holds Cyrus McCormick's papers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4831224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4831224", "title": "Dallas City Hall", "text": "Dallas City Hall\n\nDallas City Hall is the seat of Dallas municipal government, located at 1500 Marilla in the Government District of downtown Dallas, Texas (USA). The current building, the city's fifth city hall, was completed in 1978 and replaced the Dallas Municipal Building.\n\nThe City of Dallas' idea for a centralized municipal center began when city planning consultants Harland Bartholomew & Associates presented their ideas in 1944. The idea was to relocate from the current Dallas Municipal Building to a grand Beaux-Arts complex of city and federal offices, a convention center and cultural facilities. Two sites downtown were possible contenders: one north centered on Federal Street and Akard, and one south centered on Young Street.\n\nPlans proceeded until cost estimates shocked city leaders and the plan was shelved, although land at the southern site was acquired by the city for future use.\n\nThe 1963 assassination of President John F. Kennedy turned the world against the city, as Dallas became known as the \"City of Hate\". Dallas Mayor Erik Jonsson made it a priority to reinvent the city's image, and the \"Goals for Dallas\" program was enacted to accomplish this. One of goals, Design of the City, was summarized by the statement, \"We demand a city of beauty and functional fitness that embraces the quality of life for all its people.\" This was the start of the movement to create a new modern City Hall and municipal center.\n\nPlanning for the Dallas Municipal Center commenced in 1964 when the Dallas City Council appointeda Citizen's City Hall Site Committee to select an appropriate location for new municipal administration offices. The mayor was closely involved with the project, and a committee of prominent citizens settled on I.M. Pei to design the new facility.\n\nConstruction began on June 26, 1972 under the direction of contractor Robert E. McKee and Pei. The project was completed in three phases. The City accepted the garage parking areas in November 1974; the Park Plaza in May 1976; and the building in December 1977. The cost of design and construction of the building, the Park Plaza and the garage was over $70 million. Controversies arose over cost overruns (the original estimated cost was $42.2 million) and aesthetic issues (was the building too avant-garde?), though most problems were addressed and work moved on to completion.\n\nThe first Dallas City Council meeting was held in the building's City Council Chamber on February 1, 1978, and the entire facility was formally opened and dedicated on March 12, 1978.\n\nWhen you do a city hall, it has to convey an image of the people, and this had to represent the people of Dallas ... The people I met – rich and poor, powerful and not so powerful – were all very proud of their city. They felt that Dallas was the greatest city there was, and I could not disappoint them.\n– I.M. Pei\nI.M. Pei's modernist inverted pyramid design is a result of space requirements from city government. Public areas and citizen services required much less space than offices that ran the government and overhanging the upper floors allowed them to be larger than the public spaces below. The building slopes at a 34° angle, with each of the 7 above-grade floors being 9½ feet wider than the one below. This inclined façade interacts with the buildings it faces downtown and provides protection from the weather and Texas sun.\n\nThe foundation and basement levels are considerably wider than the apparent footprint of the structure, extending out beneath the inclined facade. The cantilevered roof is 200 feet (61 meters) wide, the ground floor is 126 feet (38.4 meters) wide, and the basement 230 feet (70.1 meters) wide.\nWhen Mayor Jonsson reacted to the apparent top-heaviness of the building's shape, 3 cylindrical pillars that appear the hold up the structure were created. These contain stairwells that had originally been concealed within the design. These pillars only provide visual support and do not bear the load of the building.\n\nPei also persuaded the city to acquire an additional 6 acres in front of the building as a plaza and buffer zone for his grand public structure. A 1,325 car parking garage was built beneath the plaza, and the extra income helped supplement the funding of the building.\n\nA buff-colored concrete was chosen for the main building material; its color resembled local earth tones. Since concrete was both the primary structural and finish material, close attention was paid to every aspect of its mix and placement.\n\nThe design of Dallas City Hall inspired the J. Erik Jonsson Central Library building located across the street – whereas the upper floors of City Hall are oriented \"toward\" Marilla Street, the upper floors of the Central Library are oriented \"away from\" Marilla (and, in a form of symmetry, away from City Hall).\n\nThe building features in the \"Robocop\" movies of the 1980s, as the Headquarters of the OCP company; special effects were employed to make the building appear taller than it is.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2154814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154814", "title": "Digital Cinema Initiatives", "text": "Digital Cinema Initiatives\n\nDigital Cinema Initiatives, LLC (DCI) is a joint venture of major motion picture studios, formed to establish a standard architecture for digital cinema systems.\n\nThe organization was formed in March 2002 by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Paramount Pictures, Sony Pictures Entertainment, 20th Century Fox, Universal Studios, The Walt Disney Company and Warner Bros.\n\nThe primary purpose of DCI is to establish and document specifications for an open architecture for digital cinema that ensures a uniform and high level of technical performance, reliability and quality. By establishing a common set of content requirements, distributors, studios, exhibitors, d-cinema manufacturers and vendors can be assured of interoperability and compatibility. Because of the relationship of DCI to many of Hollywood's key studios, conformance to DCI's specifications is considered a requirement by software developers or equipment manufacturers targeting the digital cinema market.\n\nOn July 20, 2005, DCI released Version 1.0 of its \"Digital Cinema System Specification\", commonly referred to as the \"DCI Specification\". The document describes overall system requirements and specifications for digital cinema. Between March 28, 2006, and March 21, 2007, DCI issued 148 errata to Version 1.0.\n\nDCI released Version 1.1 of the DCI Specification on April 12, 2007, incorporating the previous 148 errata into the DCI Specification. On April 15, 2007, at the annual NAB Digital Cinema Summit, DCI announced the new version, as well as some future plans. They released a \"Stereoscopic Digital Cinema Addendum\" to begin to establish 3-D technical specifications in response to the popularity of 3-D stereoscopic films. It was also announced \"which studios would take over the leadership roles in DCI after the current leadership term expires at the end of September.\"\n\nSubsequently, between August 27, 2007, and February 1, 2008, DCI issued 100 errata to Version 1.1. So, DCI released Version 1.2 of the DCI Specification on March 7, 2008, again incorporating the previous 100 errata into the specification document. An additional 96 errata were issued by August 30, 2012, so a revised Version 1.2 incorporating those additional errata was approved on October 10, 2012. DCI approved DCI Specification Version 1.3 on June 27, 2018, integrating the 45 errata issued to the previous version into a new document. The previous versions are also archived on the DCI web site.\n\nBased on many SMPTE and ISO standards, such as JPEG 2000-compressed image and \"broadcast wave\" PCM/WAV sound, it explains the route to create an entire Digital Cinema Package (DCP) from a raw collection of files known as the Digital Cinema Distribution Master (DCDM), as well as the specifics of its content protection, encryption, and forensic marking.\n\nThe specification also establishes standards for the decoder requirements and the presentation environment itself, such as ambient light levels, pixel aspect and shape, image luminance, white point chromaticity, and those tolerances to be kept.\n\nEven though it specifies what kind of information is required, the DCI Specification does not include specific information about how data within a distribution package is to be formatted. Formatting of this information is defined by the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers (SMPTE) digital cinema standards and related documents.\n\n\n\n\nDCI has additionally published a document outlining recommended practice for High Frame Rate digital cinema. This document discloses the following proposed frame rates: 60, 96, and 120 frames per second for 2D at 2K resolution; 48 and 60 for stereoscopic 3D at 2K resolution; 48 and 60 for 2D at 4K resolution. The maximum compressed bit rate for support of all proposed frame rates should be 500 Mbit/s.\n\nThe idea for DCI was originally mooted in late 1999 by Tom McGrath, then COO of Paramount Pictures, who applied to the U.S. Department of Justice for anti-trust waivers to allow the joint cooperation of all seven major motion picture studios.\n\nUniversal Pictures made one of the first feature-length DCPs created to DCI specifications, using their film \"Serenity\". Although it was not distributed theatrically, it had one public screening on November 7, 2005, at the USC Entertainment Technology Center's Digital Cinema Laboratory in the Pacific Theatre, Hollywood. \"Inside Man\" was Universal's first DCP commercial release, and, in addition to 35mm film distribution, was delivered via hard drive to 20 theatres in the United States along with two trailers.\n\nThe Academy Film Archive houses the Digital Cinema Initiatives, LLC Collection, which includes film and digital elements from DCI’s Standard Evaluation Material (StEM), a 12-minute production shot on 35mm and 65mm film, created for vendors and standards organizations to test and evaluate image compression and digital projection technologies.\n\n"}
{"id": "162729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162729", "title": "Détournement", "text": "Détournement\n\nA détournement (), meaning \"rerouting, hijacking\" in French, is a technique developed in the 1950s by the Letterist International, and later adapted by the Situationist International (SI), that was defined in the SI's inaugural 1958 journal as \"[t]he integration of present or past artistic productions into a superior construction of a milieu. In this sense there can be no situationist painting or music, but only a situationist use of those means. In a more elementary sense, \"détournement\" within the old cultural spheres is a method of propaganda, a method which reveals the wearing out and loss of importance of those spheres.\" \n\nIt has been defined elsewhere as \"turning expressions of the capitalist system and its media culture against itself\"—as when slogans and logos are turned against their advertisers or the political status quo. \n\nDétournement was prominently used to set up subversive political pranks, an influential tactic called situationist prank that was reprised by the punk movement in the late 1970s and inspired the culture jamming movement in the late 1980s.\n\nIts opposite is recuperation, in which radical ideas or the social image of people who are viewed negatively are twisted, commodified, and absorbed in a more socially acceptable context.\n\nIn general it can be defined as a variation on previous work, in which the newly created work has a meaning that is antagonistic or antithetical to the original. The original media work that is \"détourned\" must be somewhat familiar to the target audience, so that it can appreciate the opposition of the new message. The artist or commentator making the variation can reuse only some of the characteristic elements of the originating work.\n\nDétournement is similar to satirical parody, but employs more direct reuse or faithful mimicry of the original works rather than constructing a new work which merely alludes strongly to the original. It may be contrasted with recuperation, in which originally subversive works and ideas are themselves appropriated by mainstream media.\n\nOne could view détournement as forming the opposite side of the coin to 'recuperation' (where radical ideas and images become safe and commodified), in that images produced by the spectacle get altered and subverted so that rather than supporting the \"status quo\", their meaning becomes changed in order to put across a more radical or oppositional message.\n\nGuy Debord and Gil J Wolman categorized détourned elements into two types: \"minor détournements\" and \"deceptive détournements\". Minor détournements are détournements of elements that in themselves are of no real importance such as a snapshot, a press clipping, an everyday object which draw all their meaning from being placed in a new context. Deceptive détournements are when already significant elements such as a major political or philosophical text, great artwork or work of literature take on new meanings or scope by being placed in a new context.\n\nDétournement is the integration of past or present artistic production into a superior construction of a milieu. In this sense there can be no situationist painting or music, but only a situationist use of these means. In a more primitive sense, détournement with the old cultural spheres is a method of propaganda, a method that testifies to the wearing out and loss of importance of those spheres.\n\nIn the United States, Frank Discussion is widely known for his use of détournement in his works dating from the late 1970s through the present, particularly with the Feederz. The use of détournement by Barbara Kruger familiarised many with the technique, and it was extensively and effectively used as part of the early HIV/AIDS activism of the late 1980s and early 1990s. Examples of contemporary detournement include Adbusters' \"subvertisements\" and other instances of culture jamming, as well as poems composed collaboratively by Marlene Mountain, Paul Conneally, and others, in which quotations from such famous sources as the Ten Commandments and quotations by United States President George W. Bush are combined with haiku-like phrases to produce a larger work intended to subvert the original source. The comic artist Brad Neely's reinterpretation of Harry Potter, \"Wizard People,\" took Warner Brother's first Harry Potter film, \"The Sorcerer's Stone,\" and substituted the original soundtrack with a narration that casts the hero as a Nietzschean superman.\n\nThe concept of détournement has had a popular influence amongst contemporary radicals, and the technique can be seen in action in the present day when looking at the work of Culture Jammers including the Cacophony Society, Billboard Liberation Front, monochrom, Occupy Movements and Adbusters, whose 'subvertisements' 'detourn' Nike adverts, for example. In this case, the original advertisement's imagery is altered in order to draw attention to said company's policy of shifting their production base to cheap-labour third-world 'free trade zones'. However, the line between 'recuperation' and 'détournement' can become thin (or at least very fuzzy) at times, as Naomi Klein points out in her book \"No Logo\". Here she details how corporations such as Nike, Pepsi or Diesel have approached Culture Jammers and Adbusters and offered them lucrative contracts in return for partaking in 'ironic' promotional campaigns. She points out further irony by drawing attention to merchandising produced in order to promote Adbusters' Buy Nothing Day, an example of the recuperation of détournement if ever there was one.\n\nKlein's arguments about irony reifying rather than breaking down power structures are echoed by Slavoj Žižek. Žižek argues that the kind of distance opened up by détournement is the condition of possibility for ideology to operate: by attacking and distancing oneself from the sign-systems of capital, the subject creates a fantasy of transgression that \"covers up\" his/her actual complicity with capitalism as an overarching system. In contrast, scholars are very fond of pointing out the differences between hypergraphics, 'detournement', the postmodern idea of appropriation and the Neoist use of plagiarism as the use of different and similar techniques used for different and similar means, effects and causes.\n\nThe Neue Slowenische Kunst has a long history of aggressive détournement of extreme political ideologies, as do several industrial music groups, such as Die Krupps, Nitzer Ebb, KMFDM, and Front 242.\n\nChris Morris uses détournement and culture jamming extensively in his work, particularly in the British television series \"The Day Today\" and \"Brass Eye\".\n\nThe Istanbul-based platform InEnArt, on the occasion of the 13th Istanbul Biennial 2013, launched a forum titled Urban Voices focusing on phenomena that are turning expressions of the system and its media culture against itself. The authors of InEnArt are regularly publishing different phenomenas of détournement and invite the online community to participate by uploading similar examples.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51171113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51171113", "title": "EWorkexperience", "text": "EWorkexperience\n\neWorkexperience is an online platform created by Digital Bananas Technology for its sister company Career Insights. The online platform uses eLearning, eCollaboration, eMentoring, live digital projects that are accessible remotely to help candidates apply their learning, receive hands on training and gain practical work experience in Digital project management and business analysis.\n\nWith over 3,000+ professionals on the platform, a KPI system to track progress and access to instant messaging which ensures collaboration, candidates can gain experience as digital project management or business analysis professionals.\n\nUsing cloud based tools and software, candidates are able to build their expertise using industry standard tools and acquire skills required to secure project management and business analysis roles locally and internationally.\n\nThe eWorkexperience platform was officially launched in 2014, as a collaborative learning platform offered by Career Insights. Since launching, the eWorkexperience has increased job offers by 30% from previous success in the United Kingdom and is now preparing to use the platform to help well-educated people with no work experience in sub-saharan Africa to gain international work experience.\n\nUsing eLearning, along with cloud based collaborative tools available on web and mobile, the platform gets candidates to work on live projects from the convenience of their homes while being trained on the job, with access to cloud based tools and software. The experience gained then makes candidates employable for digital project management and business analysis roles in reputable organisations globally.\n"}
{"id": "34684597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34684597", "title": "Erwin Leonard Guy Abel", "text": "Erwin Leonard Guy Abel\n\nErwin Leonard Guy Abel (23 October 1911 – 1 May 1995) was a New Zealand grocer, businessman, athlete and racehorse owner. He was born in Ohakune, Rotorua/Taupo, New Zealand on 23 October 1911. Onthey opened Abel opened New Zealand's first shopping mall, The Big A Plaza, at Glenview, Hamilton in October 1969.\n\nOn 23 October 1911, Erwin Leonard Guy Abel was born in Ohakune to a farm worker and bush contractor named Leonard Guy Abel, and his wife Rosa Hunt. He was the second of four children and was known as, Wynn. Abel grew up Waikato and the King Country, both regions in North-Western New Zealand; he did live for a few months on Banks Peninsula. In Cambridge, Abel worked as a grocery assistant at the Farmer's Trading Company store; he was fourteen and finished with school, he would work for eight years there.\n\nOn 16 March 1933, Abel married Jean Winifred Keene in Auckland. The couple would have five children together: Four daughters and one son. It was soon after Abel's wedding that he would get a promotion at the grocery store: Able was transferred to the Whangarei branch of farmers where he was to manage the grocery department of the store.\n\nAbel was a very precocious young man who was constantly driven by self-improvement: He studied bookkeeping, grocery retailing and business management until he was well versed in all three subjects. In fact, Abel took up a second job, for some extra money, selling correspondence classes. In 1936, Abel had received a diploma from the London-based Fern Business Institute for management. It was soon after receiving this academic accolade that he purchased his own grocery business, the Wellworth While stores; it was located in central Whangarei.\n\nAbel found success with his grocery business in central Whangarei, credit is likely due to his business philosophy: Combining the lowest prices with the highest quality and standards of personal services, both helping to ensure quality customers that had loyalty. His business had a catch phrase that it advertised to customers: \"If Abels hasn’t got it … nobody has!\". This catch phrase had really captured the essence of Abel's dedication to customer service and what his business was all about.\n\nDuring the Second World War Abel and his family provided and packaged its own products at his grocery store; these products included pickled onions, bottled jam, and cream biscuits. By the 1950s, Abel purchased a second store in Whangarei and had his only son—Len—manage it.\n\nAble was truly an innovative businessman, especially for the grocery industry; he claimed to be the first grocer to take the backs out of their shop windows at the store to allow for the customers to provide themselves with self-service.\n\nIn 1953, Abel had won a research trip to Europe and North America to study grocery retailing, wholesaling plus the new and wildly popular supermarkets. When Abel returned from his research trip he decided to open his own supermarket with his son. On 29 November 1961, Abel and his son had chosen Hamilton as the site for their new supermarket; it opened in the Hamilton suburb of Hillcrest. It was Hamilton's first supermarket and in turn was one of New Zealand's first supermarkets. The supermarket venture became a huge success: They very next year the Abels built four new adjoining supermarkets.\n\nOn 8 October 1969, Abel and his son opened their \"Big 'A' Plaza\" at Glenview; at the time a fast developing suburb in Hamilton. The \"Big 'A' Plaza\" was the first shopping mall for New Zealand: The shopping mall was another new concept in retailing during that time. The Abels had opened three new shops at the Plaza in Glenview: A juvenile boutique, an electric appliance store, and a supermarket.\n\nThe Abels continued to purchase, sell and develop business after creating the \"Big 'A' Plaza\" shopping mall. The family company soon became composed of Erwin Abel, his wife Jean Abel, and his son Len Abel. The new Abel team would start with the purchase of the supermarket in Tauranga. The other purchases would soon expand to two discount grocery stores, properties in Hamilton and Rotorua, and the acquisition of company to manufacture household cleansers and hardware goods.\n\nFrom 1958 to 1961, Abel had served on the board of directors for Foodstuffs Limited, a New Zealand grocery and liquor retailer—Abel had served on the Board in Auckland. After Abel was a consultant for Pak n' Save's development—a New Zealand retail grocery warehouse chain that provides discount goods—he was considered highly influential and the Foodstuffs Limited board of directors became re-interested and impressed with Abel; the Directors asked him to rejoined the board of directors at Foodstuffs Limited starting in 1970 and ending in 1982.\n\nIn 1968, Abel and his wife decided to move from their home in Hillcrest to a new property ranging 26 acres in Tamahere; the property was called Malabar Farm. One of the appeals of their new residence was that the land could support the breeding and raising of race horses. It was at this farm that the Abels would start to breed thoroughbred race horses and raised a number of winners; the most notable was Van Der Hum whom, in 1976, won the Melbourne Cup.\n\nAbel had a serious interest in athletics and in his older years became quite an accomplished athlete. His main focus and interests in athletics lied in cross-country running and marathon running. In 1965, Abel ran his first marathon. In 1981, at the New Zealand Veteran's Championships, Abel—at the age of 70—had competed and won in four different events: The over 400 meter run, the over 800 meter run, the over 1500 meter run, and the over 5000 meter run. In 1983, at the All-American Championships in Texas, Abel had won the gold medal for the 1500 meter in the 70 – 74 age group.\n\nIn 1982, the Abel's had finally sold their last two businesses: The supermarkets in Glenview and Hillcrest. The family decision was made on a couple of factors, however, the most important reasoning was that their son, Len, died that year due to poor health; this left the Abel couple to run two businesses past their ages of retirement, a grossly unwanted burden during their time of mourning.\n\nIn Abel's retirement he maintained his athletic endeavours (i.e. competitive cross-country running and marathon running). Both him and his wife, Jean, also continued to breed, raise, and race thoroughbreds. In addition to Abel's other activities, he enjoyed growing and maintaining an organic vegetable garden; he served as a member of the Soil and Health Association of New Zealand. Abel even took up practising yoga for relaxation and to sustain mental vitality.\n\nIn 1989, Abel and his wife, Jean, sold their home—Malabar Farm—and bought a more suitable property for their senior years; they moved to the Alandale Retirement Village, just outside Hamilton, by purchasing one of its villas. On 1 April 1995, Erwin Abel died at the Waikato Hospital in Hamilton. He had suffered from Parkinson's disease for twelve years before finally succumbing to the condition. Abel was survived by his wife, Jean (whom died in 1997), and his three daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "23178988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23178988", "title": "Eurocentral", "text": "Eurocentral\n\nEurocentral is one of the largest industrial estates in Scotland situated on the edge of Holytown and Mossend, North Lanarkshire, just off the A8/M8 motorway, about east of Glasgow city centre and west of Edinburgh. The nearest communities to the estate are Holytown, Mossend, Chapelhall, Calderbank and Carnbroe. The closest major towns are Bellshill , Motherwell , Coatbridge and Airdrie .\nThere is a bus link to and from Glasgow city centre and Livingston, West Lothian. Eurocentral has warehouse distribution centres, factories, call centres, a railfreight centre which links with Grangemouth docks to the north east, England to the south and beyond to mainland Europe. The estate also has a large modern hotel/restaurant (Dakota). One of the landmarks of the Eurocentral are the so-called \"Big Heids\" which are three red upturned shipping containers with tubes making the shape of human heads.\n\nThe Maxim Office Park is a recent addition opening in March 2010. With 10 buildings totalling over . Built in a single phase, Maxim is also the UK’s largest speculatively built office park.\n\nEurocentral was the name given to a former factory near Holytown in North Lanarkshire, Scotland operated by the Taiwanese television parts manufacturer Chunghwa Picture Tubes (中華映管). The building is sometimes referred to as \"The Chunghwa Factory\". The factory is infamous because it was built using large amounts of taxpayers’ money but was demolished within 10 years.\n\nOriginally designed as a factory to produce cathode ray tubes for use in television sets and monitors, the rapid rise in popularity of LCD and plasma televisions contributed to the huge losses made by the Chunghwa company. It is also reported that a huge water bill from West of Scotland Water also helped contribute to the eventual demise of the site. Opening in 1996 the factory was expected to create 3,000 local jobs. However employment never rose above 1,200 and the factory was empty by 2003. The company was forced to repay £8 million of the £20 million it received from the government.\n\nThe factory was demolished and the site developed into a mixed use commercial and business park.\n\nThe £330 million park is the UK’s largest speculative office park development, comprising 10 buildings, totalling of high quality space. The entire park was completed in March 2010. As well as Grade A office accommodation and a wide range of shops and leisure facilities the park also houses one of Scotland's largest nurseries, Papillon Nursery and one of the Dakota Hotels (although not part of the Maxim estate it is very close by and built in keeping with the park's image).\n\nThe park currently has a shuttle bus service provided by Castle Cars of Uddingston.\n\nCurrent tenants include: Proact IT, Papillon Nursery, SEPA, REGUS, Currie & Brown, Vaillant, Berits & Brown, Peppery Horse, ACS Clothing and Sure Thing Insurance, a newly incorporated insurance intermediary.\n\nIn June 2014, planning permission was granted for the addition of a sports pavilion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52898424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52898424", "title": "Gopi Krishnan", "text": "Gopi Krishnan\n\nGopi Krishnan \"Krish\" is an Indian-origin digital leader, banking technology professional and CIO, who has earned significant credibility in the Middle East for his role in bringing digital transformations to banking institutions in the region. As of 2017, he is the Chief Information Officer/ Chief Digital Officer of the Al Hilal Bank in Qatar, UAE.\n\nKrish has been a vocal advocate for the banking sector to be early adopters or fast-followers of digital technology as “a mindset of continual learning and innovation” rather than as a project.\n\nIn 2016, Krish was awarded the CIO of the year award at the MEFTECH Innovation Awards 2016. The award was a recognition of his earlier career with Qatar Islamic Bank, where he played a leadership role in taking a bank-wide transformation project live on its second attempt and bringing about core banking changes and legacy systems. He was also shortlisted for the Tech Leadership Award at the Banking Technology Awards.\n\nIn his present position as CIO of Al Hilal Bank, Krish hopes “to connect with FinTech CEOs and explore ways to collaborate.”\n\nKrish was born and raised in Ambasamudram in Tamil Nadu. An interest in basic programming took him from his degree in General Science to an advanced diploma in Technology and Information Systems and a Postgraduate Diploma in International Business from the Indian Institute of Modern Management (IIMM). Over a 19-year career, Krish went on to bring changes in organizations like Thinksoft, Citigroup EMEA (2002), Baltimore’s CitiFinancial (2004) and Fidelity Investments at the City of London Telecom (COLT) in 2005.\n\nIn 2006, Krish took up management roles in the First Gulf Bank and implementing changes in processes, program governance, change management and enforcing stricter controls. This was followed by a two-year project in a senior position at BankMuscat International where major transformations in data centers, IT systems, CRM, trading platform, core banking and other areas were made.\n\nIn 2012 Krish joined Qatar Islamic Bank (QIB), where he spearheaded the bank-wide iCAN program with the aim of replacing the bank’s 15 year old infrastructure with new core banking platforms, greater automation of operational processes etc. Deloitte and Temenos were contributing partners in the project. QIB acknowledged Krish’s contribution towards growth and improvement, which led to the revision and updation of existing IT policies, creation of new IT processes under the ITIL Best Practices Framework, comprehensive CSA risk management exercises along with proper tracking and logging of internal and external audits, RCA and IT incident reports, among other changes.\n\nIn the February 2016 issue of the \"Computer News Middle East\" magazine, Krish was named as one of the best CIOs of the MENA (Middle East and North Africa) region for 2015, being the only CIO from Qatar’s banking industry to receive the honor. Also in 2016, Krish received the CIO of the Year Award at the MEFTECH Innovation Awards held in Abu Dhabi, for his leadership roles, improvement and growth contributions as a senior executive in the innovations achieved by QIB as a MENA-based institution.\n"}
{"id": "8488190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8488190", "title": "Government procurement", "text": "Government procurement\n\nGovernment procurement or public procurement is the procurement of goods, services and construction on behalf of a public authority, such as a government agency. With 10 to 20% of GDP, government procurement accounts for a substantial part of the global economy.\n\nTo prevent fraud, waste, corruption, or local protectionism, the laws of most countries regulate government procurement to some extent. Laws usually require the procuring authority to issue public tenders if the value of the procurement exceeds a certain threshold.\n\nGovernment procurement is also the subject of the Agreement on Government Procurement (GPA), a plurilateral international treaty under the auspices of the WTO.\n\nGovernment procurement is necessary because governments cannot produce all the inputs for the goods they provide themselves. Governments usually provide public goods, e.g. national defense or public infrastructure. Public goods are non-rival and non-excludable, which means that one individual's consumption does not diminish the quantity or quality of the commodity available to others, and individuals cannot be prevented from freely consuming the commodity, or \"free-riding\". Consequently, private markets cannot provide public goods. Instead the government provides those goods and finances them by raising taxes from all citizens.\n\nIn addition to public goods, governments often also provide merit goods, such as education or health care. Merit goods are private goods which are rival and excludable and are therefore provided by private markets. Nevertheless, governments also provide merit goods because of reasons of equity and fairness and because they have positive externalities for society as a whole.\n\nIn order to provide public and merit goods, the government has to buy input factors from private companies, e.g. police cars, school buildings, uniforms etc. This process is called government or public procurement.\n\nGovernment procurement involves a high risk of corruption because of the great size of financial turnover and the complexitiy of many procurement processes in which businesses interact very closely with politicians and civil servants. Often the personal interests of the public officials are not the same as the interests of the public. Such a conflict of interest problem, known as the principal-agent-problem, increases the risk of corruption. According to OECD, the highest percentage of bribery cases occur in the area of public procurement to influence the awarding of public contracts. Corruption in public procurement causes inefficiencies and high costs to the public. In order to prevent corruption and to ensure transparency and competition among suppliers, public procurement is subject to legal regulation.\n\nGovernment procurement regulations normally cover all public works, services and supply contracts entered into by a public authority. However, there may be exceptions. These most notably cover military acquisitions, which account for large parts of government expenditures. The GPA and EU procurement law allow of exceptions where public tendering would violate a country's essential security interests. Additionally, certain politically or economically sensitive sectors, such as public health, energy supply or public transport, may also be treated differently.\n\nPresidential Decree No. 10-236 of 7 October 2010, supplemented and amended by Presidential Decree No. 12-23 of 18 January 2012, regulate public procurement in Algeria.\n\nThe Office of Procurement, based in Tafuna, is the central authority on procurement for the American Samoa Government (ASG), being responsible for the procurement of all construction, goods, and services including the management, control, warehousing, and sale of stores/inventory commodities contained in its warehouse.\n\nPublic procurement in Angola is governed by Law No. 20/10 of 7 September 2010, the Public Procurement Law, and Law No. 2/2011 on\nPublic-Private Partnerships in Angola. The Public Procurement Law repealed Law No. 7/96 of 16 February 1996 and Decree No. 40/05 of 8 June 2005. Public expenditure, the provision of services, the leasing and acquisition of goods, and public works contracts regulated through the Public Procurement Law.\n\nAll goods required by the Ascension Island government are purchased through the Ascension Island Government (AIG) Stores, located just outside the Georgetown Pier. Goods are also for sale to the general public.\n\nThe Australian government's procurement activity is governed by the Commonwealth Procurement Rules and overseen by the Department of Finance. The rules were revised on 1 January 2018. The Procurement Coordinator is responsible for:\n\nThe Senate Order for Entity Contracts of 20 June 2001 (amended 14 May 2015), also known as the \"Murray Motion\", requires ministers to publish details of public contracts valued over AUS$100,000 on the internet and to table a letter detailing such contracts in the Senate.\n\nOn 1 December 2016 the House of Representatives and the Senate established a Joint Select Committee to inquire into and report on the Commonwealth Procurement Framework. The Committee reported in June 2017 recommending a series of amendments to the current Commonwealth Procurement Rules. The Australian government issued a response on 14 November 2017 accepting a number of the recommendations but rejecting others.\n\nInfrastructure Australia has issued a national Public Private Partnership (PPP) Policy and set of guidelines on behalf of the federal government, which apply to all PPP projects released in Australia.\n\nPublic bodies in Tasmania are required to comply with the Treasurer's Instructions on Purchasing and Property. The Department of State Growth's Tasmanian Wood Encouragement Policy has been established to ensure that (where feasible) sustainably sourced wood is fully considered within Government procurement decision-making.\n\nSince 1 July 2018, government departments in Western Australia have been required to award an increasing percentage of contracts to registered Aboriginal businesses under the state's government's Aboriginal Procurement Policy. The target is 1% of contracts initially, increasing to 2% on 1 July 2019 and 3% on 1 July 2020.\n\nThe Swiss Challenge system is utilised in Bangladesh to procure infrastructure development through public-private partnerships.\n\nThe procedure of government procurement in Brazil is regulated for a lot of different laws with different procedures depending on the importance and the value of the procurement. The most important law about government procurement which contains basic rules of public procurements and administrative contracts is the Law nº 8.666, 21 june 1993, which contains rules for public tenders and for restricted tenders. There are other different rules to regulate procurement public services, as Law nº 8.987, 13 february 1995 (Concession and Permission of Public Services); Law nº 12.462, 4 august 2011 (Differentiated Procurement - RDC in portuguese) and Law nº 10.520, 17 july 2002, with deal with presential auction. In the internet field (e-procurement) there are executive orders (Decretos) which regulate public procurement as Decree nº 5.450, 31 may 2005 and Decree nº 7.982, 23 january 2013. This latter regulates the procedure of specific situations of sharing acquisitions of goods or under portioned deliverings.\n\nPublic procurement in Canada is regulated on various governmental levels (federal, provincial, municipal). Most federal procurement is organized by the Public Services and Procurement Canada (PSPC) agency and is governed by their Code of Conduct of Procurement in combination with principles laid out in the Federal Accountability Act and in the Financial Administration Act. Public procurement is guided by the principles of fairness, transparency, openness, and non-discrimination and complies with all international agreements that Canada is a member of (WTO Government Procurement Agreement [GPA], NAFTA, CETA, and various bilateral FTAs). Foreign suppliers from member nations to these agreements can bid on Canadian government procurements and are treated the same as domestic suppliers.\n\nThe principal statutory provisions regulating government procurement are:\n\n\nIn general, bids must be solicited by the procuring department unless estimated expenditure does not exceed $25,000, or $100,000 \"where the contract is for the acquisition of architectural, engineering and other services required in respect of the planning, design, preparation or supervision of the construction, repair, renovation or restoration of a work\". For contracts above $25,000, tenders are published on the transparent Government Electronic Tendering Service (GETS). A non-competitive procurement process is only used in certain special circumstances. One such area of exception are security-related procurements. In that case the Defence Production Act applies, which allows using a special process and favouring domestic suppliers in acquiring defence supplies and conducting defence.\n\nThe Ministry of Finance in East Timor or Timor-Leste is responsible for the oversight of government procurement. The Government uses the Timor-Leste eProcurement Portal for purchasing.\n\nGovernment procurement in Ethiopia is governed by the Ethiopian Federal Government Procurement and Property Administration Proclamation No.649/2009, which replaced the proclamation on Procedures of Public Procurement and Establishing its Supervisory Agency, Proclamation No. 430/2005. The Public Procurement\nand Property Administration Agency advises the federal government on \"on all public procurement and property administration policies, principles and implementation\" and provides \"technical assistance to the regional governments and city administrations\".\n\nGovernment procurement in the European Union accounts for more than EUR 2.2 trillion, or 14% of the EU GDP. It has been regulated and harmonized by community law since the 1970s in order to guarantee transparency and non-discrimination of EU companies in government procurement in all member states. EU laws apply only to tenders that exceed certain thresholds in value. These thresholds vary depending on the area the contract is for and if the procurement is done by a central government or by other public authorities (e.g. municipal government). National laws are applied for tenders below these threshold values. Relevant EU Directives regarding government procurement currently in force are Directive 2009/81, Directive 2014/24, and Directive 2014/25.\n\nThere are five different procedures for public procurement:\n\n\nThe European Commission is working on further improving efficiency and transparency in government procurement in the EU with its current public procurement strategy.\n\nGovernment procurement in Austria is regulated by the Federal Procurement Act 2017.\n\nBelgian legislation on public procurement is set out in the Act of 17 June 2016 implementing the 2014 EU procurement directives. The Laws of 17 June 2016 on public procurement and on concession contracts, and the Law of 16 February 2017 on remedies, failed to meet the EU's transposition deadline (18 April 2016). Royal Decrees issued on 18 April 2017 for general public procurement, 18 June 2017 for procurement in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, 22 June 2017 containing new rules on the performance of public works contracts and concession contracts for public works and 25 June 2017, for the award and performance of concession contracts, have augmented the earlier laws.\n\nArticle 51 of the Royal Decree of 18 April 2017 includes a \"revolving door mechanism\", which targets the situation where a person previously working for a contracting authority is now being employed by an economic operator involved in a public procurement procedure established by that contracting authority. In this type of situation the person would be presumed to have a conflict of interest for a two-year period following the termination of his/her employment with the contracting authority.\n\nGovernment procurement in Bulgaria is a critical area in corruption risk. Public procurement contracts have been awarded to a handful of companies amid widespread irregularities, procedure violations and tailor-made selection or award criteria. The Bulgarian public procurement portal reported in September 2016 that since the beginning of 2016, \"a total of 15,105 contracts were signed on the basis of public procurement orders\". At the beginning of 2015, the Bulgarian government announced a 130-kilometer extension to the barbed wire border fence along its border with Turkey in order to completely secure the land border. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov described the extension as \"absolutely necessary\" in order to prevent persons from illegally entering the European Union member state. The Bulgarian Parliament authorised amendments to procurement legislation to allow continued construction of the fence without launching a public procurement procedure \"because of the need to safeguard national security\". Overall,\n\nThe first public procurement law in Croatia based on the EU Procurement Directives was enacted in 2001, but a revised legal structure for public procurement was put in place with the Public Procurement Act of 2012, and this was superseded by the Public Procurement Act of 2016, effective 1 January 2017. Public-private partnerships (PPPs) are governed by the Act on Public-Private Partnerships. Two key Croatian institutions are the Public Procurement Office and the Public Procurement Supervisory Commission, established in 2001, now (since 2013) the State Commission for Supervision of Public Procurement (DKOM). The State Commission is an independent quasi-judicial body with nine members appointed by the Croatian Parliament for a five-year term and accountable to the Croatian Parliament for its work. The High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia has jurisdiction over the State Commission in relation to disputes concerning procedure, but there is no right of appeal against Commission decisions.\n\nUnder Croatian law, procurement procedures must be carried out by authorised representatives of the contracting authority, of whom at least one must hold a valid procurement certificate.\n\nThe Public Procurement Directorate of the Treasury of the Republic of Cyprus is responsible for procurement policy.\n\nGovernment procurement in the Czech Republic is regulated by Act No. 134/2016 Coll., on Public Contracts, signed by the President of the Republic on 22 April 2016.\n\nEconomic operators who are dissatisfied with the conduct of public procurement activity in Denmark may complain to the Klagenævnet for Udbud (Public Procurement Complaints Board).\n\nThe Estonian Ministry of Finance is responsible for public procurement policy, drafting the law, providing supervision and consultancy, and maintains a central Public Procurement Register. The current legislation is the Public Procurement Act of 2017, which came into effect on 1 September 2017, and which operates in conjunction with the Public Information Act of 2000, which regulates the publication of \"information concerning public procurements which are being organised or have been organised by the state or local governments\". Disputes are handled by the Public Procurements Appeal Committee.\n\nDefence procurement for the Defence Forces, Ministry of Defence, Defence League, Defence Resources Agency and Estonian War Museum is organised by the Estonian Centre for Defence Investment, whose purpose is \"to carry out procurement activities through ... professional-quality procurement and to use dedicated funds sparingly and prudently\". The Centre for Defence Investment was established by the decree of the Minister of Defence on 9 November 2015 and became operational on 1 January 2017.\n\nIn Finland the following legislation applies to government procurement:\n\nA Government Decree on Public Contracts was also in force until 2017.\n\nThe Ministry of Employment and the Economy is responsible for the preparation of legislation concerning public procurement. The Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority (FCCA) oversees public procurement: section 139 of the Act on Public Procurement and Concession Contracts mandates the FCCA to supervise compliance with public contracts legislation and to provide 'administrative guidance' or if necessary to issue a caution to a non-compliant public authority. The Market Court operates as a specialist court handling public procurement cases. The Market Court's rulings in public procurement cases can be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court of Finland.\n\nThe Act on Electronic Auctions and Dynamic Purchasing Systems of 17 June 2011, which entered into force on 1 October 2011, introduced new procurement procedures, whereby documents relating to procurement would be sent and received exclusively online. This legislation included the use of eAuctions. Electronic procurement is now covered within the 2016 Act on Public Contracts.\n\nTransposition of the 2014 EU public procurement directive into Finnish law was delayed after the deadline (18 April 2016) with the consequence that some aspects of the directive were directly applicable from April 2016 until the new Finnish legislation was in place from 1 January 2017.\n\nHansel Ltd. is a state-owned central purchasing body established by the \"Act on a Limited Liability Company Called Hansel Oy\", which operates framework agreements and supports central government departments in Finland with public procurement tasks.\n\nIn France, the Department of Legal Affairs (DAJ) of the Ministry for the Economy and Finance (French: \"Ministère de l'Économie et des Finances\") is responsible for establishing regulations regarding public procurement (\"la commande publique\"). All currently relevant EU directives have been implemented into national law.\n\nThe \"Union des Groupements d’Achat Public\" (UGAP), based in Champs-sur-Marne east of Paris, operates as the only general public procurement agency in France.\n\nIn Germany, the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy (German: \"Bundesministerium für Wirtschaft und Energie\", abbreviated BMWi) is responsible for defining laws and principles regarding public procurement. In 2016 Germany transposed the new EU Directives of 2014 into domestic law. Thereby, processes and contracts in public procurement have become easier and more flexible. The Act against Restraints of Competition - Part IV (German: \"\", abbreviated GWB) and the Ordinance on the Award of Public Contracts (German: , abbreviated VgV) regulate procurement above EU thresholds. Detailed procedures are specified in further regulations, e.g. the Procurement Regulation for Public Works (German abbreviation: ), the Procurement Regulation for Public Supplies and Services (), and the Procurement Regulation for Professional Services (). For many contracts electronic procurement is made possible via an online platform.\n\nFor public procurement below the EU thresholds there are different regulations. At the federal level national budgetary law applies while the 16 federal German states and some municipalities have their own public procurement laws and regulations. This decentralized system reflects the political decentralization in Germany. However, sub-national level procurement regulations often take national regulations as examples and also ensure competition, non-discrimination, and transparency.\n\nGovernment procurement in Gibraltar is managed by the Procurement Office, an independent office of Her Majesty's Government of Gibraltar which reports directly to the Financial Secretary.\n\nLaw 4412/2016 on public procurement and Law 4413/2016 on concessions are the main instruments of Greek legislation governing public procurement. These two laws of 2016, along with earlier reforms introduced under Law 4281/2014 on public procurement law, have radically simplified the previously complex legal regime, repealing numerous previous laws. The European Commission's profile for Greece in its study of administrative capacity in the EU had described the public procurement system in the country as \"singularly complex, ... being dispersed among as many as 400 laws, regulations, and presidential decrees\". Public contract notices are published in the Central Electronic Registry for Public Procurement (KIMDIS).\n\nThe Public Procurement Monitoring Unit (PPMU), established in 1997, part of the Centre of International and European Economic Law in Thessaloniki, provides Greek contracting authorities with \"specialised and prompt legal advisory support on awarding public works and technical services contracts falling within the scope of EU Law on Public Procurement\".\n\nThe Hungarian Public Procurement Authority was established by Act XL of 1995 and the current Public Procurement Act (Act CXLIII of 2015) entered into force on November 1, 2015, implementing the 2014 EU procurement directives. The objectives of the 2015 legislation are:\nConcession award procedures are also covered within the same legislation, and the fundamental principles set out in Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code, the \"ultimate instrument relating to the operation of civil persons and economic organizations\", also apply to public procurement.\n\nGovernment procurement in Ireland is governed by the European Communities (Award of Public Authorities' Contracts) Regulations 2006 and the European Communities (Public Authorities’ Contracts) (Review Procedures) Regulations 2010. Patrick O’Donovan TD is the Minister of State with special responsibility for Public Procurement.\n\nPublic procurement in Italy is primarily regulated by the Public Contracts Code, which is administered by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport (Italian: Ministero delle infrastrutture e dei trasporti). The code was reformed in 2016 to implement the new EU directives of 2014 into domestic Italian law. In addition to the code, guidelines from the National Anti-Corruption Authority (Italian: \"Autorità Nazionale AntiCorruzione,\" abbreviated ANAC) and decrees from various ministries also apply to public procurement. Most public procurement on a national level is administered by the state-owned company Consip S.p.A. Larger regions have their own agencies for public purchasing.\n\nThe five regions with special autonomy (Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Sardinia, Sicily, Trentino-Alto Adige, Valle d’Aosta) can also establish regional legislation regarding public procurement.\n\nGovernment procurement in Latvia is regulated by the Public Procurement Law, effective 1 March 2017, and the Law on the Procurement of Public Service Providers, which came into effect on 1 April 2017. These laws transpose the EU procurement directives; one additional legal provision is that for supplier selection purposes, real estate tax debts are checked where tenderers are registered or permanently resident in Latvia. Public procurement opportunities are advertised on the Latvian \"Elektronisko Iepirkumu Sistēma\" (EIS) website.\n\nThe Procurement Monitoring Office within the Ministry of Finance oversees public procurement. A deposit for filing a review application with the Procurement Monitoring Office must be paid, calculated as 0.5% of the estimated contract value, but no more than €15,000 for construction work contracts or €840 for supply and public service contracts.\n\nIn Luxembourg, the main policy body for public procurement is the Public Procurement Directorate within the Public Works Department of the\nMinistry of Sustainable Development and Infrastructure (MDDI). This department is responsible for the regulatory framework, drafting relevant\nlegislation and monitoring its implementation, and also for representing the Luxemburgish authorities in the field of public procurement. A Tender Commission with members drawn from contracting authorities, chambers of commerce and small business sectors undertakes a consultative role in relation to public procurement.\n\nThe EU 2014 Directives on public procurement and utilities procurement were implemented by the Law of 8 April 2018 on public procurement, which was published in the Luxembourg official Gazette (\"Mémorial: Journal officiel du Grand-Duché de Luxembourg\") on 16 April 2018 and entered into force on 20 April 2018. Procurement in the defence and security sector is covered by the Law of 26 December 2012.\n\nThe EU Directive on public procurement is transposed into Maltese law by the Public Procurement Regulations, S.L.174.04, 28 October 2016. These regulations also create the Office of the Director of Contracts (Regulation 10), who is responsible generally for the regulation and administration of public procurement procedures in Malta, a General Contracts Committee, whose members are appointed by the Prime Minister (Regulation 64), a Departmental Contracts Committee for each contracting authority, and in each Ministry a Ministerial Procurement Unit (Regulation 79). Under regulation 80 a Public Contracts Review Board is established. The Commercial Sanctions Tribunal (Regulation 95) is appointed to hear and determine issues relating to the black listing of persons unsuitable for the award of a public contract or to act as a sub-contractor to a public sector contractor.\n\nThe main legislative provisions governing public procurement in the Netherlands are:\nSector-specific procurement regulations are also included in the Passenger Transport Act 2000. The Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible for procurement policy.\n\nPublic procurement in Slovenia is overseen by the Public Procurement Directorate within the Ministry of Public Administration. The Slovenian Public Procurement Act, the ZJN-3, came into force on 1 April 2016, and covers both public sector and utilities procurement, implementing Directives 2014/24/EU and 2014/25/EU in one piece of legislation.\n\nSpanish Law 30/2007 on public sector contracts (known as the \"LCSP\") was substantially amended by a new Law 2/2011 on Sustainable Economy (\"LES\") following an infringement procedure undertaken by the European Commission, which found that the LCSP \"gave contracting authorities a wide, almost unlimited, power to modify essential terms of public contracts after award, in a manner which was not in line with the principles of equal treatment between bidders, non-discrimination and transparency set out in EU public procurement rules\".\n\nThe Swedish Competition Authority is responsible for oversight of government procurement in Sweden, having taken over this role from the Board for Public Procurement () when it was dissolved in 2007.\n\nGovernment procurement in the UK is governed by the Public Contracts Regulations 2015, Part 3 of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015 and (in Scotland) the Public Contracts (Scotland) Regulations 2015 and 2016, which implement EU law and also contain rules known as the \"Lord Young Rules\" promoting access for small and medium enterprise (SMEs) to public sector contracts, based on Lord Young's Review \"Growing Your Business\", published in 2013. In November 2016 an advisory panel of 24 entrepreneurs and business figures was formed to advise the government on purchasing goods and services from SMEs, and a campaign was launched to demonstrate that \"government is open for business\", with a target of increasing government spending with SMEs to 33% of all third-party public expenditure by 2020.\n\nHealth commissioners in England are exempt from the Lord Young Rules when procuring clinical services and these rules do not apply in Wales (i.e. to wholly or mainly devolved functions).\n\nIn Wales, two organisations - the National Procurement Service, established in 2013, and Value Wales - oversee Welsh public sector procurement. The role of Value Wales includes shaping procurement policy, monitoring procurement in practice, supporting, advising and developing procurement staff and ensuring compliance with procurement regulations. The Welsh government requires public sector bodies in Wales to include the delivery of social, economic and environmental benefits for the community as an integral consideration in procurement and for this purpose each public body in Wales must appoint a Community Benefits Champion.\n\nIn the light of the economic downturn of 2008 onwards, sometimes referred to as the \"Great Recession\", the UK government adopted a series of 10 \"procurement for growth\" principles intended to ensure that UK government procurement would \"take account of supply chain opportunities for UK companies in policy and delivery planning\".\n\nPart 3 of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015 allows the Minister for the Cabinet Office or relevant Secretary of State to impose further regulations on public bodies regarding how they undertake procurement. The Minister for the Cabinet Office is the minister with overall responsibility for procurement policy, which is delivered through the Crown Commercial Service, an executive agency sponsored by the Cabinet Office.\n\nIn Northern Ireland the Central Procurement Directorate within the Department of Finance (formerly the Department of Finance and Personnel) is responsible for procurement policy. A revised public procurement policy for Northern Ireland departments, agencies, non-departmental public bodies and public corporations was adopted on 16 May 2002; the latest version (version 11) was issued in August 2014. A Concordat on Public Procurement was agreed on 1 June 2001 by the UK Government and the Northern Ireland Executive for the handling of EU, international and policy issues on public procurement.\n\nThe Crown Commercial Service operates a Mystery Shopper scheme, whose remit is to provide a route for suppliers to raise concerns about public procurement practice in England, and publishes Procurement Policy Notes from time to time which advise procurement staff in the public sector of government policy developments and best practice in relation to procurement.\n\nGeneral transparency principles applicable to government procurement were published in March 2015 and updated in February 2017, stating that there is a presumption in favour of contractual information being made publicly available (except in matters of commercial confidentiality such as pricing, intellectual property and business plans). Tender opportunities advertised by public sector bodies in the UK are legally required to be published to the following sites:\n\nThe Public Contracts Regulations 2015 provide that public sector buyers must pay prime contractors within 30 days and must ensure that any subcontracts through the supply chain include a similar provision. In 2014-15 at least 33 NHS trusts paid fewer than half of their trade invoices on time, up from 23 in 2015-16 and 11 in 2014-15. Under the Better Payment Practice Code, they should pay at least 95% of non-NHS invoices within 30 days.\n\nUnder the draft agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU it is proposed that procurement procedures commenced under the EU regulations before the end of the transitional period should continue to be governed by the relevant regulations up to the issue of a contract award notice. If there is no agreement with the EU following withdrawal, the government has stated that it will establish \"a UK-specific e-notification service\" as a replacement. Contracting authorities and entities would be expected to ensure that their contract notices are published on the new e-notification service as well as the relevant site listed above.\n\nThe Fiji Procurement Office was established under Section 4 of the Fiji Procurement Regulations 2010 and commenced operations on 1 August 2010. The establishment of the Office and the new Fiji Procurement Regulations were a direct result of the re-organisation of the Government Supplies Department by the Fijian government. The main functions of the Fiji Procurement Office are to regulate and administer the procurement of goods, service and works for the government. The Government Tender Board is \"constituted with authority to approve all procurement of goods, services and works valued at FJ$30,001 and more\".\n\nPublic procurement in Ghana is undertaken and overseen by the Public Procurement Authority of Ghana. The Public Procurement Board is the central body for policy formulation on procurement. The existing Public Procurement Act 2003 (Act 663) was amended by the Public Procurement (Amendment) Act 2016 (Act 914), which came into effect on 1 July 2016.\n\nPublic procurement opportunities in Guernsey are advertised on the Channel Islands Procurement Portal, which was launched in April 2008 and is shared with Jersey.\n\nPublic procurement in Guyana is overseen by the Public Procurement Commission, appointed under the Public Procurement Commission Act 2003. Due to lengthy delay in identifying and agreeing commission members, the commission was not appointed until 2016. The PPC is based in the Queenstown area of Georgetown. The National Procurement and Tender Administration of Guyana (NPTA), established under section 16(1) of the Procurement Act 2003, undertakes administrative processes for high value governmental tenders.\n\nAct No. 84/2007 on Public Procurement (2007) has three objectives:\n\nThe Isle of Man government promotes competition in procurement under the \"Council of Ministers’ Procurement Policy for Government\" published in 2017.\n\nIn Israel, the Mandatory Tenders Law of 12 March 1992, 5752-1992 (as amended), governs government procurement procedures. Oversight of the legislation lies with the Ministry of Finance in conjunction with the Knesset Constitution, Law and Justice Committee. The government may, with the approval of the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee, direct that a state or a government corporation may not enter into a contract with a particular foreign country or with a particular foreign supplier for reasons of foreign policy.\n\nThe Government of Jamaica Procurement Guidelines apply to government procurement in Jamaica, and the Public Sector Procurement Policy of November 2010 reflects \"the government’s ... strategy to further reform the public procurement system that is aligned to international best practices and promote fair competition for government contracts\". \n\nUntil 1996, Jamaica operated a centralised procurement system coordinated by the Central Supply Division of the Ministry of Finance, and procurement activity was regulated by the Financial Administration (Supplies) Regulations 1963 supplemented by directives from the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance and the Public Service is now responsible for oversight of procurement policy. A Procurement Policy Implementation Unit was established within the Ministry of Finance in September 1999. \n\nThe Office of the Contractor-General (OCG), based in Kingston, was established in 1983 under the Contractor General Act of that year.The Contractor General is appointed by the Governor General. In December 2008, three members of the procurement committee of the Jamaica Urban Transit Company resigned following reports of procurement breaches identified by the Contractor-General, Greg Christie.\n\nThe National Contracts Commission (NCC) was established in October 1999. Members of the NCC are also appointed by the Governor-General.\n\nThe States of Jersey's procurement opportunities are advertised on the Channel Islands Procurement Portal, which was launched in April 2008 and is shared with Guernsey.\n\nPublic procurement in Kenya is governed by the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act 2015.\n\nPublic procurement in the Lao People's Democratic Republic is governed by the Prime Minister's Decree on Procurement of Goods, Works, Maintenance and Services No. 03/PM, dated 9 January 2004, and the Implementing Rules and Regulations on Government Procurement of Goods, Works, Maintenance and Services No. 063/PM, dated 12 March 2004. Amendments were made to some of the articles of the Implementing Rules and the Decree by Update 0861/MOF of 5 May 2009. Procurement activities are overseen by the Procurement Monitoring Office (PrMO) within the Ministry of Finance.\n\nGovernment procurement in Liberia is governed by the Public Procurement Act. The Public Procurement and Concessions Commission (PPCC) was established in 2005 to \"regulate all forms of Public Procurement and Concessions and provide for institutional structures for public procurement and concessions\". The PPCC operates an online Vendors' Register.\n\nProcurement is decentralised, but the Ministry of Finance is required \"to take part in the negotiations and signing of contracts over US $250,000\" and such contracts must \"be attested to by the Ministry of Justice\".\n\nGovernment procurement in the Maldives is subject to the Public Finance Law (Law No. 3/2006) and chapter 10 of the Public Finance Regulation. The approval of the National Tender Board is required before contracts in excess of MVR 2.5m can be awarded.\n\nPublic procurement is included in Article 134 of the Mexican Constitution. Article 134 is implemented by the Law of Public Sector Acquisitions, Leasing and Services (\"Acquisition Law\") and the Law of Public Works and Related Services (\"Public Work Law\"). At a local level, each of the 31 states and the Federal District has different public procurement laws.\n\nDecree no. 5/2016, \"Public Procurement Regulations\" governs public procurement in Mozambique.\n\nThe New Zealand Government Procurement Branch of the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment is responsible for the Government Procurement Rules, Government Rules of Sourcing and Principles of Government Procurement. The aim of the Government Rules of Sourcing is to \"support good practice for procurement planning, approaching the supplier community and contracting\". The 66 rules were initially introduced in 2013. The principles apply to all governmental procurement activity but the rules only apply to projects or purchases exceeding $100,000 or construction projects valued over $10 million.\n\nPurchasers of certain common goods or services are required to use \"All-of-Government contracts\" (AoG) established by the Government Procurement Branch, overseen by the Procurement Functional Leader and managed by appointed procurement Centres of Expertise. Where a public agency wishes to opt out of the use of an AoG contract it must obtain the approval of approval the Procurement Functional Leader: if the agency and the Procurement Functional Leader fail to agree on an opt-out, the State Services Commissioner will decide.\n\nPeruvian public procurement law was formerly set out in the Government Procurement Act (approved by Legislative Decree No. 1017) and the Regulation of the Government Procurement Act (approved by Supreme Decree No. 184-2008-EF), which were replaced by a new Government Procurement Act (Law N° 30225) in 2014. Peruvian President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski resigned on 21 March 2018 following allegations that public works contracts had been corruptly awarded to Brazilian conglomerate Odebrecht.\n\nRussian Federal Law N44-ФЗ of 05.04.2013 require all federal, regional and municipal government customers to publish all information about government tenders, auctions and other purchase procedures on special public government websites.\n\nIn Rwanda, the public procurement process is managed on daily basis by an autonomous organ, the Rwanda Public Procurement Authority (RPPA), which operates under the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MINECOFIN). Public procurement is regulated by the Law N°12/2007 of 27/03/2007 on public procurement which was modified and complemented by the Law N°05/20013 of 13/02/2013. The law is implemented by a Ministerial Order N°001/14/10/TC of 19/02/2014 establishing Regulations on Public Procurement, Standard Bidding Documents and Standard Contracts.\n\nRwanda has a decentralized public procurement system whereby procuring entities (central government organs, local government entities, government projects, commissions, public institutions, parastatals, agencies or any other government entity charged by the Chief Budget Manager to manage public funds) have the power to conduct directly their public procurement process. The main mission of RPPA is (1) to process the establishment and improvement of public procurement legal framework, (2) provide public procurement legal advisory services, (3) conduct audit and monitoring of public procurement activities carried out by procuring entities(tender award and contract management) and (4) build the capacity of public officials involved in public procurement activities.\n\nThe public procurement system in Rwanda is governed by 6 fundamental principles namely (1) transparency, (2) competition,(3) economy, (4) efficiency, (5) fairness and (6) accountability. In the national system, bidders have the right to appeal against public procurement procedures they may think were not conducted appropriately. In that connection, the legal framework provides for the Independent Review Panels at National Level (National Independent Review Panel) and at District Level (Independent Review Panel at District Level). The Independent Review Panels are composed of members from the Private Sector, Civil Society and the Public Sector, and the members from the Public Sector cannot form the majority of members of the Panel. The Independent Review Panel at National Level is under the supervision of the Minister of Finance and Economic Planning whereas the Independent Review Panel at District Level is under the supervision of the District Council.\n\nIn order to make the procurement sector a profession in Rwanda, there is an Association of Procurement Professionals which was established by the Law N°011/2016 of 02/05/2016.\n\nRwanda introduced an e-procurement system in 2016. For more information about Rwanda's e-procurement system please visit www.umucyo.gov.rw; for more information about public procurement in Rwanda in general, please visit www.rppa.gov.rw.\n\nSingapore's Ministry of Finance is responsible for the Government Procurement policy framework, which governs how government agencies undertake their procurement. In 2014, the Public Accounts Committee of the Parliament of Singapore criticised the state of government procurement in Singapore, identifying a number of irregularities in procurement procedures including:\n\nGeBIZ is a Government-to-business (G2B) Public eProcurement business centre where suppliers can conduct electronic commerce with the Singaporean Government. All of the public sector's invitations for quotations and tenders (except for security-sensitive contracts) are posted on GeBIZ. Suppliers can search for government procurement opportunities, retrieve relevant procurement documentations and submit their bids online.\n\nSection 217 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996 (Act 108 of 1996) provides the basis for government procurement:\n\nThe Public Finance Management Act 1999 also refers to the duty of the Accounting Officer of a Department to have and to maintain an appropriate procurement and supply system which is \"fair, equitable, transparent, competitive and cost effective\".\n\nThe Ministry of Economic Development and Trade (Ukraine) is an executive authority in charge of coordination of procurement of goods, works and services for public funds. The Law “On public procurement” is one of the core legislative bases of the procurement regulations. It made electronic public procurement procedures and use of e-procurement system Prozorro mandatory for all procuring entities after August 2016.\n\nFederal government procurement within the United Arab Emirates is governed by \"Cabinet Resolution No. 32 of 2014 on Federal Government Procurement Regulation and Storehouse Management in Federal Government\", which applies to all supply, works and services purchasing undertaken by the federal government and the federal ministries and governmental agencies (except the Ministry of Defence), and also to independent federal entities such as the General Authority for Civil Aviation, Emirates Real Estate Corporation, FEWA, ESCA, Insurance Authority, Emirates Post Group Holding, National Transport Authority, Telecommunications Regulatory Authority, UAE University and Zayed University. UAE Federal Decree No. 12 of the Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces (1986) applies to armed forces procurement.\n\nConditional preferential treatment is afforded under Resolution 32 to corporate suppliers whose capital does not exceed AED 10 million and in which the UAE national shareholding is not less than 51%, and to facilities which are financed by SMEs-supporting funds and governed by federal or local law.\n\nGovernment procurement by public authorities in the United States accounts for about USD 7 trillion annually. Federal procurement is governed by the Federal Acquisition Regulation. FedBizOpps and USASpending.gov are websites where federal contracts are shown. Public announcements of awards has several exemptions, including contracts less than $3.5 million. Historically, the procurement data has been criticized for deficiencies leading to a number of reforms. In 2013, eight legacy databases were merged into a single system called \"System for Award Management\" (SAM), where companies interested in doing business with the federal government may register their interest.\n\nContracts are not posted online, although two agencies have explored the possibility.\n\nIn January 2014, the Office of Inspector General at NASA released a report criticizing the agency's lack of strategic sourcing. Because IT departments were spending autonomously, NASA spent $25.7 million on similar purchases.\n\nThe National Institute of Governmental Purchasing and the Federal Acquisition Institute are active in procurement certification and training. A specialized program in procurement law in the United States is located at The George Washington University Law School.\n\nPurchasing is overseen by the Secretariat for the Economy, which is responsible for setting purchasing policies and procedures, while responsibility for expenditure is devolved to individual dicasteries and administrations.\n\nPublic procurement in Zambia is governed by the Public Procurement Act No. 12 of 2008 and the Public Procurement Regulations of 2011. Prior to 2008, public procurement was governed by the Zambia National Tender Board Act, Act No. 30 of 1982.\n\nZimbabwe established a public procurement law in 1999. The Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Act, 2017 repealed the Procurement Act of 1999 and abolished the State Procurement Board. On 9 January 2018, President Emmerson Mnangagwa appointed an eight-member Procurement Regulatory Authority of Zimbabwe which replaced the Board. The legislation incorporates a \"domestic preference\" section empowering procuring entities to \"give preference to bids from Zimbabwean or local suppliers and manufacturers\" and provides for a Special Procurement Oversight Committee to be established to oversee \"certain especially sensitive or especially valuable contracts\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5762131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5762131", "title": "Hotel Elysée", "text": "Hotel Elysée\n\nThe Hotel Elysée is a New York City hotel situated on 60 East 54th Street between Madison and Park Avenues. The hotel was founded in 1926 as a European-style hotel for the carriage trade by Swiss-born Max Haering.\n\nHotel Elysée was founded in 1926 as a European-style hotel for the carriage trade by Swiss-born Max Haering. New York's leading hatcheck concessionaire, Mayer Quain, purchased the hotel out of bankruptcy in 1937. After the War, his children eclectically designed every room so that no two rooms were alike. In lieu of traditional numbers, the rooms were named to reflect their personality, such as the \"Sayonara\" suite assigned to Marlon Brando after his starring role in \"Teahouse of the August Moon\". Tennessee Williams lived in the hotel for fifteen years and died in the \"Sunset\" suite.\n\nColumnist Jimmy Breslin, who regards the Elysée as \"a great hotel, a genuine New York landmark,\" succeeded Ruark as the hotel's unofficial chronicler. Upon Tennessee Williams's death at the Elysée in February 1983, Breslin recalled the story of a transient guest who called the front desk at 5:00 am complaining that someone in the next suite was keeping her awake by typing all night. \"They knew right away who the culprit was, but they couldn't very well ask Mr. Williams to stop playwriting, so we simply moved the guest to another room.\"\n\nIn November 1948, Tallulah Bankhead celebrated President Harry S. Truman's stunning victory over Thomas E. Dewey by throwing a noisy party at the hotel that ran non-stop for five days and nights.\n\nThe Elysée is known for the Monkey Bar, a piano bar just off the lobby. Opened in the 1940s, it became known to the cognoscenti as \"the place to go where jokes die,\" especially off-color jokes and double-entendre songs spun by such performers as Johnny Payne (1934-1964), Marion Page (1950-1965) and Mel Martin (1945-1983). Johnny Andrews played the piano at cocktail hour for over 50 years (1936-1990).\n\nStarting out as just another dimly lit hotel piano bar with mirrored paneling, the tiny room was expanded in the early 1950s when the mirrors were replaced by wraparound hand-painted mural by caricaturist Charlie Vella . Eight more monkeys were added to the bar mural in 1984 by artist Diana Voyentzie \"to remind customers of their behaviour.\" In 1995, when the bar was redesigned by the architect David Rockwell, all of the monkeys were unified by Voyentzie with more monkeys and palm trees and foliage. The monkeys in the mural depict decidedly human features riding elephants, crouching under a Christmas tree, mixing up banana daiquiris for tough-looking monkey-like customers, etc. In successive years, other artists have added to the tableau.\n\n"}
{"id": "26328712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26328712", "title": "Héctor Magnetto", "text": "Héctor Magnetto\n\nHéctor Horacio Magnetto (born July 9, 1944) is an Argentine executive CEO of the Clarín Group, the country's largest media company.\n\nMagnetto was born in Chivilcoy in 1944, and enrolled at the University of La Plata, where he earned a degree in accountancy with high honors. He became affiliated with the pro-industry political party, the Integration and Development Movement (MID), and on March 2, 1972, was hired as an advisor to Ernestina Herrera de Noble, the director and majority owner of \"Clarín\", the most widely circulated newspaper in Latin America. Despite its large circulation, \"Clarín\" suffered financial difficulties when Mrs. Noble inherited the director's post from its founder, Roberto Noble, as his widow. She turned to one of the latter's most prominent allies, economist and wholesaler Rogelio Julio Frigerio, who lent \"Clarín\" US$10 million in 1971. The paper continued to endorse Frigerio's centrist MID platform, which centered on government support for infrastructure investment and import substitution industrialization. On Frigerio's advice, Mrs. Noble brought in Magnetto, who took later charge of the newspaper's finances.\n\nThe young accountant persuaded Mrs. Noble to shed superfluous assets, such as a company helicopter, and to begin negotiations with the Mitre, Paz, and Peralta Ramos families (owners of \"La Nación\", \"La Prensa\" and \"La Razón\", respectively) to take part in a federally sponsored establishment of a newsprint manufacturer. The plan, which would cut costs by eliminating the need for imported newsprint, ultimately resulted in the inaugural of the \"Papel Prensa\" newsprint facility in 1978.\n\nMagnetto served as CEO of Papel Prensa, on an alternating basis with the director of \"La Nación\", during subsequent years. He displaced most of his fellow MID-oriented colleagues at the newspaper in 1981, and afterwards became President and CEO. Keen to political trends, Magnetto spearheaded Clarín's vocal opposition to the administration of the populist-turned-conservative President, Carlos Menem, after the latter's re-election in 1995. He nevertheless maintained cordial relations with the runner-up of that campaign, Justicialist Party Governor Eduardo Duhalde, who was appointed President by the Argentine Congress following the December 2001 riots in Argentina that led to his predecessor's (Fernando De la Rua) resignation. Magnetto was able to parlay this understanding into Duhalde's support for a \"Law of Preservation of Cultural Patrimony,\" which limited foreign ownership of local media to 30%, and thus protected the Clarín Group's core businesses. The group had suffered steep losses during the 1999-2002 crisis, and the bill (passed in July 2003, and dubbed the \"Clarín Law\" by detractors), helped solidify its finances.\n\nThe company recovered alongside the Argentine economy in subsequent years, and by 2006, had acquired Cablevisión, its Multicanal cable unit's leading competitor. Magnetto, however, was beset by worsening health problems, chief among them a dignosis of esophageal cancer in early 2007, which for a time led to speculation as to his continuity as CEO of the Clarín group, as well as to a possible dispute over his 30% share in the company. Magnetto reacted positively to treatment, and underwent subsequent speech therapy.\n\nHe was on hand for the October 22, 2007, Clarín IPO in the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange, and continued to preside over the group. Former President Néstor Kirchner alleged that, during the 2008 Argentine government conflict with the agricultural sector, Magnetto offered a supportive spin on the administration's case for higher export tariffs, in exchange for an amenable treatment of the media group's acquisition of a significant stake in Telecom Argentina (a potential anti-trust law violation); the hitherto cordial relations between Kirchnerism and the Clarín Group soured during the conflict. Subsequently, Magnetto was one of 200 individuals investigated by the government for money laundering, mainly related to tax evasion.\n\nMagnetto was named in a 2010 testimony by Lidia Papaleo, whose husband David Graiver owned Papel Prensa from 1973 until his death in 1976, as a key instigator of her torture by the police in 1977; Papaleo cited this incident as the cause for her sale at the time of her shares in \"La Opinión\" and Papel Prensa. The newspaper Clarin published that Papaleo \"recanted her testimony,\" violating every ethical standard of journalism. In fact, Papaleo confirmed that she and her family were under great psychological pressure and forced to sell Papel Prensa in the trial. Magnetto was declared innocent in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "42280022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42280022", "title": "Johan Gørrissen", "text": "Johan Gørrissen\n\nJohan Fredrik Gørrissen (18 March 1907 – 2 April 1982) was a Norwegian chemical engineer and industrial leader.\n\nHe was born in Kristiania, a son of ship-owner Willy Gørrissen and Magdalene Lothe. He graduated in chemical engineering from the Norwegian Institute of Technology in 1935. He worked as an engineer for Christiania Spigerverk in the 1930s, and later assumed various leading positions for Elektrokemisk.\n\nDuring the German occupation of Norway he took part in the leadership of Milorg, until he was arrested in October 1942, and sent to the Sachsenhausen concentration camp in Germany in 1943. He was decorated with the King's Medal for Courage in the Cause of Freedom for his contributions during World War II.\n\nHe died in April 1982 and was buried at Ris.\n"}
{"id": "10984124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10984124", "title": "John Beckwith (entrepreneur)", "text": "John Beckwith (entrepreneur)\n\nSir John Lionel Beckwith, CBE (born 19 March 1947) is a British businessman.\n\nJohn Beckwith was born on 19 March 1947. He was educated at Harrow School. He is reportedly a \"sport fanatic\" and, as of 2011, had run four marathons. He is the uncle of socialite Tamara Beckwith.\n\nBeckwith qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Arthur Andersen & Co from 1969 to 1971. In 1971, together with his brother Peter, he established the London and Edinburgh Trust PLC which they soon made one of the United Kingdom's top ten real estate companies. Beckwith served as chairman until 1993. In 1986, Beckwith founded Rutland Trust PLC, a diversified corporate finance, venture capital and insurance broking group, where he served as chairman until 1991. In 1993, Beckwith founded the private investment company Pacific Investments PLC. In 2007, Rutland Trust PLC merged with August Equity Trust PLC to form New Star Private Equity Investment Trust PLC.\n\nIt is ironic that Beckwith is Founder and President of Youth Sport Trust, an independent charity devoted to changing young people's lives through sport. He is a Vice President of the Royal National Institute of Blind People. He is a Patron of the Teenage Cancer Trust and was a member of the Development Board of the Cancer Relief Macmillan Fund (later Macmillan Cancer Support). Beckwith established the Sir John Beckwith Charitable Trust in 1987 with the announced aim of helping a broad spectrum of charitable bodies. Between April 1993 and April 2010, the Trust made donations totalling £6.87m across a wide range of educational, sports, arts, medical and community organisations.\n\nIn 1996, Beckwith was made Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE), and in 2002 he was knighted for his service to youth sports. In 2000 he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Letters degree (\"Hon DLitt\") by Loughborough University.\n"}
{"id": "40943679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40943679", "title": "Kamer van Koophandel", "text": "Kamer van Koophandel\n\nThe Kamer van Koophandel (KvK) is the Chamber of Commerce in the Netherlands. It is operated as a quango, guided by the \"Wet op de kamers van koophandel en fabrieken\" (Chambers of commerce and factories law) 1997 and the \"Handelsregisterwet\" (Trade registry law) 2007.\n\nIt is a member of the European Business Register.\n\n"}
{"id": "7247298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7247298", "title": "Koos Formsma", "text": "Koos Formsma\n\nKoos Formsma (born 1957 in Leeuwarden, Friesland) is a Dutch businessman and former chairman of Dutch football club SC Heerenveen. A former field hockey player from HC Bloemendaal, Formsma became the club's chairman on 1 October 2006 after Riemer van der Velde resigned his 23-year spell at the team. Formsma was also director of the company Regma Nederland, located in Lelystad, which he sold to Canon in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "50759489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50759489", "title": "Leo Wainstein", "text": "Leo Wainstein\n\nLeo Wainstein (4 January 1883 – 13 March 1978) was an Ukrainian Jewish jurist and businessman who lived most part of his life in Finland.\n\nWainstein was born in Yalta to a Jewish peasant family. He graduated as jurist in Odessa University in 1910 and worked in the field until 1916, when he got involved into wool business through his marriage to Regina née Tilling. After the October Revolution the couple moved to Finland, where Wainstein made a successful career in textile industry. His business started to decline in the 1950s, and after this he changed to hat industry for a few years before his retirement.\n\nWainstein had Italian citizenship, and he died in Rome on 13 March 1978.\n\nWainstein was born in Yalta, Russian Empire to a Jewish family. His parents were farmer Josef Wainstein and Lia née Rabinowicz. The father died when Waintein was young and faced had difficulties at completing his studies. Eventually, Wainstein completed his upper secondary studies in 1906 and continued in Odessa University, where he graduated as jurist in 1910.\n\nFollowing to his graduation, Wainstein worked as jurist first in Odessa and later in Moscow. There he met Regina Trilling, who was a daughter of a Polish Jew wool trader Elias Trilling. Leo and Regina got married in 1915 and in the following year Leo Wainstein started working for his father-in-law's wool company. Wainstein learned wool business thoroughly and his work took him to the Nordic Countries, UK, Belgium, France, Italy and Switzerland.\n\nWainstein's wool business came to end after the October Revolution and at late 1918 the couple decided to move to newly independent Finland.\n\nIn 1919 Wainstein became owner and manager of wool company Ab Nordiska Ullkompaniet Oy. The Finnish textile industry was in trouble – in addition to the local market, the Finnish companies had sold large share of their production in Russia, and now this market area was closed. Despite of the difficulties, Wainstein developed the business determinedly.\n\nIn 1924 Waintein took over Turun Verkatehdas Oy (\"Turku Baize Factory\") from young businessman Wilhelm Wahlforss, who had led the company unsuccessfully. At the time the company employed just 65 people, but Wainstein increased the production capacity of worsted yarn and woolen fabric by 45%, and the number of spindles was increased from 3,400 up to nearly 30,000. Waintein owned a German, Berlin-based subsidiary Nordische Woll GmbH.\n\nThe company did well following the Second World War and upswing in economy, and the headcount in Turun Verkatehdas reached nearly 2,000 in the turn of the 1950s. Soon after this the situation turned worse: shortly after the company had bought a large stock of wool, the government started wool price regulation. Consequently, the raw material price dropped and the final products had to be priced accordingly. At the early 1950s the wool price dropped to one third of the previous peak level, and the company fell into trouble.\n\nWainstein and the main financing bank Pohjoismaiden Yhdyspankki (PYP) started to seek a way out from the difficult situation. PYP continued funding the Turku baize factory partly because of Wainstein's good relationship to the bank's main director Rainer von Fieandt, and partly because the company collapse would have meant a victory to another local competitor Barker-Littoinen Oy and its financier and Kansallis-Osake-Pankki (KOP), which was the main competitor of PYP. Waintein realised that the future did not look bright, and moved 51% of the company ownership to a foundation he had founded in 1952. The foundation board members were Wainstein, Fieandt and Sakari Tuomioja, the director of Bank of Finland. The setup was tactically selected – after this the company was on a stable basis. Wainstein left his position as chairman in 1953 and Fieandt left in 1955. Turun Verkatehdas was merged to Villayhtymä Oy in 1960.\n\nSince the 1920s Wainstein had been involved in hatmaking, being a board member of Oy Silfverbergin & Wecksellin Yhdistetyt Hattutehtaat (\"Silfverberg's & Wecksell's United Hat Factories Ltd\"). After leaving baize manufacturing, Wainstein got involved into Kristinestad located hat producer Oy M. Kotschack Ab together with his son Michael. Wainstein retired at the end of the 1960s, after which Leo and Regina Wainstein moved to Rome for the rest of their lives; Wainstein had had Italian citizenship since 1919.\n\nWainstein's favourite hobbies were gardening, music and arts. He was great friend of Italy and worked as Italian consul in Helsinki in 1919–1923. During 1949–1968 he was Italian Honorary Consul General. Wainstein contributed trade between the two countries as member of the Finnish–Italian Chamber of Commerce. Wainstein also took part in the Helsinki Jewish Congregation.\n\nIn 1928 Leo and Regina Wainstein founded foundation \"Leo ja Regina Wainsteinin säätiö\" to celebrate their tenth anniversary in Finland and as a gratitude to their new home country. The foundation had a significant amount of capital and it shared grants and funded a number of pieces of sculpture in Turku, Helsinki and Gothenburg. The foundation was ended in 2003 after which it became part of the Finnish Cultural Foundation as Leo and Regina Wainstein Fund.\n"}
{"id": "31192190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31192190", "title": "Loeb's NY Deli", "text": "Loeb's NY Deli\n\nLoeb's NY Deli is a historic kosher-style deli in downtown Washington, D.C., United States. Opened in 1959 by Walter Loeb, the deli was originally located at the corner of 15th and G Streets, NW, in a space currently occupied by the Old Ebbitt Grill. In the 1970s the deli moved to the U.S. Export-Import Bank (Lafayette) building, and was made to move again in 2010 because of a Recovery Act-funded renovation. It is now located at 1712 I Street, and run by Dave, Marlene and Steve Loeb, the children of founder Walter Loeb.\n\n"}
{"id": "2458539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2458539", "title": "Luigi Lavazza", "text": "Luigi Lavazza\n\nLuigi Lavazza (24 April 1859 – 16 August 1949) was an Italian businessman. In 1895, he founded the Lavazza coffee company in Turin.\n\nLavazza was born in Murisengo, a small city in the province of Turin (Piedmont).\n\nThe origins of the Lavazza firm go back to 1895, when Luigi Lavazza purchased a little grocery store, Paissa Olivero, in the old commercial section of Turin (Northern Italy). The purchase was made for 26,000 Italian Lire, or about US$20.\n\nIn those times such stores operated as both retail and production outlets. The coffee, sold among thousands of other products, was bought raw, and then roasted and blended according to very personal recipes depending on the customers' requests. This activity soon attracted the interest of Luigi Lavazza, who had already demonstrated considerable knowledge and skills in the processing of blends, including both the quantities of the ingredients and the degree of roasting. The firm's expansion from retailing to wholesale trade (1910), the joining of Luigi's three sons Mario, Beppe and Pericle (during the First World War), and the progressive narrowing of the production range marked the first steps of an irresistible commercial growth, which enabled the Firm to acquire a notable position at regional level. The little grocery store became in 1927 the modern Luigi Lavazza S.p.A. that, after the forced stop caused by the League of Nations' economic sanctions, by the prohibition on the importation of coffee, and by the outbreak of the Second World War, finally came to specialize in the production of coffee. The first Lavazza logo was then created and the annual production reached 1,000 tons.\n\nIn 1936 Luigi Lavazza retired and left the company to his children. He died in 1949.\n\nSince his death his family, from generation to generation, has devoted its energy to coffee and today Lavazza is claimed to be the market leader of espresso in Italy (with almost 45% of the total coffee market in 2004) and is present in over 60 countries. It is still based in Turin and is controlled by the fourth generation of Lavazza's descendants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33797591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33797591", "title": "MIT150", "text": "MIT150\n\nThe MIT150 is a list published by the Boston Globe, in honor of the 150th anniversary of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 2011, listing 150 of the most significant innovators, inventions or ideas from MIT, its alumni, faculty, and related people and organizations in the 150 year history of the institute.\n\nThe top 30 innovators and inventions on the list are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23945303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23945303", "title": "Mamdouh Abbas", "text": "Mamdouh Abbas\n\nMamdouh Abbas (born 1946) is an Egyptian businessman. He was appointed the Zamalek chairman twice. His first appointment stretched from 2006 to 2008. He returned to the position for the second time when he was elected president of the club in May 2009. He resigned from Zamalek in early November over a contract dispute.\nHe managed a wide range of business companies in which their capital ranged between 5 and 450 million EGP.\n"}
{"id": "43928418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43928418", "title": "Marcos Bisonó", "text": "Marcos Bisonó\n\nMarcos Rodolfo Bisonó Haza is a Dominican businessman and lawyer. Bisonó is currently the President of \"Asociación Dominicana de la Industria del Cigarrillo\" (ASOCIGAR).\n\nMarcos Bisonó was born in Santo Domingo, and is the son of architect Victor Bisonó Pichardo, born into a prominent family from Villa Bisonó in the foothills of the Northern Mountain-Range in Santiago Province, and Ivonne Haza, a renowned national soprano from San Pedro de Macorís. He completed elemental school at Colegio Santa Teresita and graduated \"Cum Laude\" as Juris Doctor from the Universidad Iberoamericana’s Law School. He also completed some courses at the Lawyers Yale School of Management.\n\nBisonó is descended from Domingo Daniel Pichardo, Vice President of the Dominican Republic from 1857 to 1858, and Fernando Valerio, who is considered a hero of the Battle of Santiago (1844).\n\n"}
{"id": "13025479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13025479", "title": "Merck Millipore", "text": "Merck Millipore\n\nMerck Millipore was the brand used for Merck's global life science business until 2015 when the company re-branded. It was originally formed when Merck acquired the Millipore Corporation in 2010. Merck is a supplier to the life science industry. The Millipore Corporation was founded in 1954, and listed among the S&P 500 since the early 1990s, as an international biosciences company, known widely for its micrometer pore-size filters and tests. In 2015, Merck acquired Sigma-Aldrich and merged it with Merck Millipore. In the United States and Canada, the life science business is now known as MilliporeSigma.\n\nIn the early 1950s Lovell Corporation won a contract from the U.S. Army Chemical Engineers to develop and manufacture membrane filtering devices and systems used to separate the molecular components of fluid samples. When the membranes were declassified in 1953 and offered for commercial use, Jack Bush, a Lovell employee, bought the company’s right to the technology for $200,000 and established the Millipore Filter Company which later changed its name to Millipore Corporation to reflect its growing range of products. In 2010, Merck KGaA the world's oldest chemical and pharmaceutical company- acquired Millipore Corporation to form EMD Millipore.\n\nBy 1959, Millipore made porous membrane filters of cellulose esters or other materials which resembled paper in sheet form, and were brittle when dry but friable when wet. Filters consisted of nitrocellulose or polycarbonate membrane nucleopore filters ranging from pore size of 0.2 μm (micrometer) to 20 µm. Modern filter are Polyvinylidene fluoride and/or Polypropylene based.\n\nBy 1970, Millipore had established subsidiaries in seven countries. The company opened manufacturing plants in Jaffrey, New Hampshire; Molsheim, France; Cork, Ireland; and several other locations. Millipore’s 2006 acquisition of Serologicals Corporation improved the company's position in high-growth markets such as drug discovery products and services, antibodies, cell biology reagents, and stem cell research. As of the late 2000s, Millipore was the only company providing both upstream cell culture and downstream separations offerings for biopharmaceutical production.\n\nHere are some of the key milestones representative of Millipore’s changes and growth over the past five decades.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMillipore Corporation had been publicly traded on the OTC, or NASDAQ, exchange where it had paid a cash dividend to shareholders every year since 1966. In 1987 Millipore Corporation moved from the NASDAQ exchange to the New York Stock Exchange, where it traded under the ticker symbol MIL. Millipore Corporation was on the S&P 500 list of the biggest publicly traded companies in the United States until it was acquired by Merck kGaA in 2010. The deal was valued at approximately EUR 5.3 billion (US$7.2 billion). Merck KGaA is not associated with Merck & Co. expropriated by the US government during World War I, although the two companies stem from the same parent company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9562761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9562761", "title": "Microsoft Office PerformancePoint Server", "text": "Microsoft Office PerformancePoint Server\n\nMicrosoft Office PerformancePoint Server is a business intelligence software product released in 2007 by Microsoft. The product was generally an integration of the acquisitions from ProClarity - the Planning Server and Monitoring Server - into Microsoft's SharePoint server product line. Although discontinued in 2009, the dashboard, scorecard, and analytics capabilities of PerformancePoint Server were incorporated into SharePoint 2010 and later versions.\n\nPerformancePoint Server also provided a planning and budgeting component directly integrated with Excel.\n\nMicrosoft offered preview releases of PerformancePoint Server starting in mid-2006. Previews of the product were formed from Business Scorecard Manager 2005 and the Planning Server component. Acquisitions ProClarity and Great Plains brought additional analytics and planning/reporting capabilities, as well as companion products ProClarity 6.3 and FRx.\n\nPerformancePoint Server was officially released in November 2007.\n\nMicrosoft discontinued PerformancePoint Server as an independent product in 2009 and folded its dashboard, scorecard and analytics capabilities into PerformancePoint Services in SharePoint Server 2010.\n\nBusiness monitoring capabilities, including dashboards, scorecards & key performance indicators, navigable reports for deeper analysis, strategy maps, and linked filtering, are provided by PerformancePoint's Monitoring Server component. A Dashboard Designer application that is distributed from Monitoring Server enables business analysts or IT Administrators to:\n\n\nDashboard Designer saved content and security information back to the Monitoring Server. Data source connections, such as OLAP cubes or relational tables, were also made through Monitoring Server.\nAfter a dashboard has been published to the Monitoring Server database, it would be deployed as a SharePoint page and shared with other users as such. When the pages were opened in a web browser, Monitoring Server updated the data in the views by connecting back to the original data sources.\n\nPerformancePoint's Planning Server component supported maintenance of logical business models, budget & approval workflows, enterprise data sources, and it followed Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.\n\nPlanning Server made use of Excel for input and line-of-business reporting, as well as SQL Server for storing and processing business models.\n\nThe Management Reporter component was designed to perform financial reporting and can read PerformancePoint Planning models directly. A development kit was also available to allow this component to read other models .\n\n"}
{"id": "187271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187271", "title": "Nicholas Negroponte", "text": "Nicholas Negroponte\n\nNicholas Negroponte (born December 1, 1943) is a Greek American architect. He is the founder and Chairman Emeritus of Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Media Lab, and also founded the One Laptop per Child Association (OLPC).\n\nNegroponte was born to (), a Greek shipping magnate and alpine skier, and grew up in New York City's Upper East Side. He is the younger brother of John Negroponte, former United States Deputy Secretary of State. Another brother Michel Negroponte is an Emmy Award-winning filmmaker, and his other brother, George Negroponte, is an artist and was President of the Drawing Center from 2002-2007.\n\nHe attended Buckley School in New York, Fay School in Massachusetts, Le Rosey in Switzerland, and The Choate School (now Choate Rosemary Hall) in Wallingford, Connecticut, from which he graduated in 1961. Subsequently, he studied at MIT as both an undergraduate and graduate student in Architecture where his research focused on issues of computer-aided design. He earned a master's degree in architecture from MIT in 1966. Despite his accomplished academic career, Negroponte has spoken publicly about his dyslexia and his difficulty reading.\n\nNegroponte joined the faculty of MIT in 1966. For several years thereafter he divided his teaching time between MIT and several visiting professorships at Yale, Michigan and the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nIn 1967, Negroponte founded MIT's Architecture Machine Group, a combination lab and think tank which studied new approaches to human-computer interaction. In 1985, Negroponte created the MIT Media Lab with Jerome B. Wiesner. As director, he developed the lab into the pre-eminent computer science laboratory for new media and a high-tech playground for investigating the human-computer interface. Negroponte also became a proponent of intelligent agents and personalized electronic newspapers, for which he popularized the term the Daily Me.\n\nIn 1992, Negroponte became involved in the creation of \"Wired Magazine\" as the first investor. From 1993 to 1998, he contributed a monthly column to the magazine in which he reiterated a basic theme: \"Move bits, not atoms.\"\n\nNegroponte expanded many of the ideas from his \"Wired\" columns into a bestselling book \"Being Digital\" (1995), which made famous his forecasts on how the interactive world, the entertainment world and the information world would eventually merge. \"Being Digital\" was a bestseller and was translated into some twenty languages. Negroponte is a digital optimist who believed that computers would make life better for everyone. However, critics such as Cass Sunstein have criticised his techno-utopian ideas for failing to consider the historical, political and cultural realities with which new technologies should be viewed.\n\nIn the 1980s Negroponte predicted that wired technologies such as telephones would become unwired by using airwaves instead of wires or fiber optics, and that unwired technologies such as televisions would become wired—a prediction commonly referred to as the Negroponte switch.\n\nIn 2000, Negroponte stepped down as director of the Media Lab as Walter Bender took over as Executive Director. However, Negroponte retained the role of laboratory Chairman. When Frank Moss was appointed director of the lab in 2006, Negroponte stepped down as lab chairman to focus more fully on his work with One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) although he retains his appointment as professor at MIT.\nIn November 2005, at the World Summit on the Information Society held in Tunis, Negroponte unveiled the concept of a $100 laptop computer, The Children's Machine, designed for students in the developing world. The price has increased to US$180, however. The project is part of a broader program by One Laptop Per Child, a non-profit organisation started by Negroponte and other Media Lab faculty, to extend Internet access in developing countries.\n\nNegroponte is an active angel investor and has invested in over 30 startup companies over the last 30 years, including Zagats, Wired, Ambient Devices, Skype and Velti. He has sat on several boards, including Motorola (listed on the New York Stock Exchange) and Velti (listed on the NASDAQ and formerly on the London Stock Exchange ). He is also on the advisory board of TTI/Vanguard. In August 2007, he was appointed to a five-member special committee with the objective of assuring the continued journalistic and editorial integrity and independence of the Wall Street Journal and other Dow Jones & Company publications and services. The committee was formed as part of the merger of Dow Jones with News Corporation. Negroponte's fellow founding committee members are Louis Boccardi, Thomas Bray, Jack Fuller, and the late former Congresswoman Jennifer Dunn.\n\nNegroponte has influenced modern day futurists, such as David Houle.\n\n"}
{"id": "8797591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8797591", "title": "One Sansome Street", "text": "One Sansome Street\n\nOne Sansome Street, also known as Citigroup Center, is an office skyscraper located at the intersection of Sutter and Sansome Streets in the Financial District of San Francisco, California near Market Street. The , 41 floor, office tower was completed in 1984.\n\nThe One Sansome Street tower is built adjacent to the site of the ornate Anglo and London Paris National Bank, which was completed in 1910. Designed by architect Albert Pissis, the bank building was granite clad with high Doric columns. The historic architecture of the bank building serves as a conservatory for the skyscraper today.\n\nOne Sansome Street was acquired by Beacon Capital Partners LLC from BayernLB in 2005 for $217 million or $394.55 per ft² ($4,247.32 per m²). BayernLB bought the building in 1999 from subsidiaries of Citigroup and Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co. for between $170–175 million, or $310–320 per ft² ($3,337-3,445 per m²). By 2010, it was owned by Broadway Partners Fund Manager, LLC. In 2010, a partnership between Barker Pacific Group and Prudential Real Estate Investors took ownership of the building. In 2011, Citigroup signed a lease extension through 2022 to remain the building's anchor tenant.\n\nThe building contains direct underground access to the Montgomery Street Station.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18938758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18938758", "title": "Open-source model", "text": "Open-source model\n\nThe open-source model is a decentralized software development model that encourages open collaboration.\nA main principle of open-source software development is peer production, with products such as source code, blueprints, and documentation freely available to the public. The open-source movement in software began as a response to the limitations of proprietary code. The model is used for projects such as in open-source appropriate technology, and open-source drug discovery.\n\nOpen source promotes universal access via an open-source or free license to a product's design or blueprint, and universal redistribution of that design or blueprint. Before the phrase \"open source\" became widely adopted, developers and producers used a variety of other terms. \"Open source\" gained hold with the rise of the Internet. The open-source software movement arose to clarify copyright, licensing, domain, and consumer issues.\n\nGenerally, open source refers to a computer program in which the source code is available to the general public for use or modification from its original design. Open-source code is meant to be a collaborative effort, where programmers improve upon the source code and share the changes within the community. Code is released under the terms of a software license. Depending on the license terms, others may then download, modify, and publish their version (fork) back to the community.\n\nMany large formal institutions have sprung up to support the development of the open-source movement, including the Apache Software Foundation, which supports community projects such as the open-source framework Apache Hadoop and the open-source HTTP server Apache HTTP.\n\nThe sharing of technical information predates the Internet and the personal computer considerably. For instance, in the early years of automobile development a group of capital monopolists owned the rights to a 2-cycle gasoline-engine patent originally filed by George B. Selden. By controlling this patent, they were able to monopolize the industry and force car manufacturers to adhere to their demands, or risk a lawsuit.\n\nIn 1911, independent automaker Henry Ford won a challenge to the Selden patent. The result was that the Selden patent became virtually worthless and a new association (which would eventually become the Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association) was formed. The new association instituted a cross-licensing agreement among all US automotive manufacturers: although each company would develop technology and file patents, these patents were shared openly and without the exchange of money among all the manufacturers. By the time the US entered World War II, 92 Ford patents and 515 patents from other companies were being shared among these manufacturers, without any exchange of money (or lawsuits).\n\nEarly instances of the free sharing of source code include IBM's source releases of its operating systems and other programs in the 1950s and 1960s, and the SHARE user group that formed to facilitate the exchange of software. Beginning in the 1960s, ARPANET researchers used an open \"Request for Comments\" (RFC) process to encourage feedback in early telecommunication network protocols. This led to the birth of the early Internet in 1969.\n\nThe sharing of source code on the Internet began when the Internet was relatively primitive, with software distributed via UUCP, Usenet, IRC, and Gopher. BSD, for example, was first widely distributed by posts to comp.os.linux on the Usenet, which is also where its development was discussed. Linux followed in this model.\n\nThe term \"open source\" was first proposed by a group of people in the free software movement who were critical of the political agenda and moral philosophy implied in the term \"free software\" and sought to reframe the discourse to reflect a more commercially minded position. In addition, the ambiguity of the term \"free software\" was seen as discouraging business adoption.\nThe group included Christine Peterson, Todd Anderson, Larry Augustin, Jon Hall, Sam Ockman, Michael Tiemann and Eric S. Raymond. Peterson suggested \"open source\" at a meeting held at Palo Alto, California, in reaction to Netscape's announcement in January 1998 of a source code release for Navigator. Linus Torvalds gave his support the following day, and Phil Hughes backed the term in \"Linux Journal\". Richard Stallman, the founder of the free software movement, initially seemed to adopt the term, but later changed his mind. Netscape released its source code under the Netscape Public License and later under the Mozilla Public License.\n\nRaymond was especially active in the effort to popularize the new term. He made the first public call to the free software community to adopt it in February 1998. Shortly after, he founded The Open Source Initiative in collaboration with Bruce Perens.\n\nThe term gained further visibility through an event organized in April 1998 by technology publisher Tim O'Reilly. Originally titled the \"Freeware Summit\" and later known as the \"Open Source Summit\", the event was attended by the leaders of many of the most important free and open-source projects, including Linus Torvalds, Larry Wall, Brian Behlendorf, Eric Allman, Guido van Rossum, Michael Tiemann, Paul Vixie, Jamie Zawinski, and Eric Raymond. At that meeting, alternatives to the term \"free software\" were discussed. Tiemann argued for \"sourceware\" as a new term, while Raymond argued for \"open source\". The assembled developers took a vote, and the winner was announced at a press conference the same evening.\n\n\"Open source\" has never managed to entirely supersede the older term \"free software\", giving rise to the combined term free and open-source software (FOSS).\n\nSome economists agree that open-source is an information good or \"knowledge good\" with original work involving a significant amount of time, money, and effort. The cost of reproducing the work is low enough that additional users may be added at zero or near zero costthis is referred to as the marginal cost of a product. Copyright creates a monopoly so the price charged to consumers can be significantly higher than the marginal cost of production. This allows the author to recoup the cost of making the original work. Copyright thus creates access costs for consumers who value the work more than the marginal cost but less than the initial production cost. Access costs also pose problems for authors who wish to create a derivative work—such as a copy of a software program modified to fix a bug or add a feature, or a remix of a song—but are unable or unwilling to pay the copyright holder for the right to do so.\n\nBeing organized as effectively a \"consumers' cooperative\", open source eliminates some of the access costs of consumers and creators of derivative works by reducing the restrictions of copyright. Basic economic theory predicts that lower costs would lead to higher consumption and also more frequent creation of derivative works. Organizations such as Creative Commons host websites where individuals can file for alternative \"licenses\", or levels of restriction, for their works.\nThese self-made protections free the general society of the costs of policing copyright infringement.\n\nOthers argue that since consumers do not pay for their copies, creators are unable to recoup the initial cost of production and thus have little economic incentive to create in the first place. By this argument, consumers would lose out because some of the goods they would otherwise purchase would not be available. In practice, content producers can choose whether to adopt a proprietary license and charge for copies, or an open license. Some goods which require large amounts of professional research and development, such as the pharmaceutical industry (which depends largely on patents, not copyright for intellectual property protection) are almost exclusively proprietary, although increasingly sophisticated technologies are being developed on open-source principles.\n\nThere is evidence that open-source development creates enormous value. For example, in the context of open-source hardware design, digital designs are shared for free and anyone with access to digital manufacturing technologies (e.g. RepRap 3D printers) can replicate the product for the cost of materials. The original sharer may receive feedback and potentially improvements on the original design from the peer production community.\n\nAlternative arrangements have also been shown to result in good creation outside of the proprietary license model. Examples include:\n\n\nSocial and political views have been affected by the growth of the concept of open source. Advocates in one field often support the expansion of open source in other fields. But Eric Raymond and other founders of the open-source movement have sometimes publicly argued against speculation about applications outside software, saying that strong arguments for software openness should not be weakened by overreaching into areas where the story may be less compelling. The broader impact of the open-source movement, and the extent of its role in the development of new information sharing procedures, remain to be seen.\n\nThe open-source movement has inspired increased transparency and liberty in biotechnology research, for example by open therapeutics and CAMBIA Even the research methodologies themselves can benefit from the application of open-source principles. It has also given rise to the rapidly-expanding open-source hardware movement.\n\nOpen-source software is software which source code is published and made available to the public, enabling anyone to copy, modify and redistribute the source code without paying royalties or fees.\nOpen-source code can evolve through community cooperation. These communities are composed of individual programmers as well as large companies. Some of the individual programmers who start an open-source project may end up establishing companies offering products or services incorporating open-source programs. Examples of open-source software products are:\n\nOpen-source hardware is hardware which initial specification, usually in a software format, is published and made available to the public, enabling anyone to copy, modify and redistribute the hardware and source code without paying royalties or fees. Open-source hardware evolves through community cooperation. These communities are composed of individual hardware/software developers, hobbyists, as well as very large companies. Examples of open-source hardware initiatives are:\n\nSome publishers of open-access journals have argued that data from food science and gastronomy studies should be freely available to aid reproducibility. A number of people have published creative commons licensed recipe books.\n\n\n\n\n\nAn open-source robot is a robot whose blueprints, schematics, or source code are released under an open-source model.\n\n\n\n\nThe rise of open-source culture in the 20th century resulted from a growing tension between creative practices that involve require access to content that is often copyrighted, and restrictive intellectual property laws and policies governing access to copyrighted content. The two main ways in which intellectual property laws became more restrictive in the 20th century were extensions to the term of copyright (particularly in the United States) and penalties, such as those articulated in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), placed on attempts to circumvent anti-piracy technologies.\n\nAlthough artistic appropriation is often permitted under fair-use doctrines, the complexity and ambiguity of these doctrines creates an atmosphere of uncertainty among cultural practitioners. Also, the protective actions of copyright owners create what some call a \"chilling effect\" among cultural practitioners.\n\nThe idea of an \"open-source\" culture runs parallel to \"Free Culture,\" but is substantively different. \"Free culture\" is a term derived from the free software movement, and in contrast to that vision of culture, proponents of open-source culture (OSC) maintain that some intellectual property law needs to exist to protect cultural producers. Yet they propose a more nuanced position than corporations have traditionally sought. Instead of seeing intellectual property law as an expression of instrumental rules intended to uphold either natural rights or desirable outcomes, an argument for OSC takes into account diverse goods (as in \"the Good life\") and ends.\n\nSites such as ccMixter offer up free web space for anyone willing to license their work under a Creative Commons license. The resulting cultural product is then available to download free (generally accessible) to anyone with an Internet connection. Older analog technologies such as the telephone or television have limitations on the kind of interaction users can have.\n\nThrough various technologies such as peer-to-peer networks and blogs, cultural producers can take advantage of vast social networks to distribute their products. As opposed to traditional media distribution, redistributing digital media on the Internet can be virtually costless. Technologies such as BitTorrent and Gnutella take advantage of various characteristics of the Internet protocol (TCP/IP) in an attempt to totally decentralize file distribution.\n\n\nOpen-source ethics is split into two strands:\n\nIrish philosopher Richard Kearney has used the term \"open-source Hinduism\" to refer to the way historical figures such as Mohandas Gandhi and Swami Vivekananda worked upon this ancient tradition.\n\nOpen-source journalism formerly referred to the standard journalistic techniques of news gathering and fact checking, reflecting \"open-source intelligence\", a similar term used in military intelligence circles. Now, \"open-source journalism\" commonly refers to forms of innovative publishing of online journalism, rather than the sourcing of news stories by a professional journalist. In the 25 December 2006 issue of TIME magazine this is referred to as user created content and listed alongside more traditional open-source projects such as OpenSolaris and Linux.\n\nWeblogs, or blogs, are another significant platform for open-source culture. Blogs consist of periodic, reverse chronologically ordered posts, using a technology that makes webpages easily updatable with no understanding of design, code, or file transfer required. While corporations, political campaigns and other formal institutions have begun using these tools to distribute information, many blogs are used by individuals for personal expression, political organizing, and socializing. Some, such as LiveJournal or WordPress, utilize open-source software that is open to the public and can be modified by users to fit their own tastes. Whether the code is open or not, this format represents a nimble tool for people to borrow and re-present culture; whereas traditional websites made the illegal reproduction of culture difficult to regulate, the mutability of blogs makes \"open sourcing\" even more uncontrollable since it allows a larger portion of the population to replicate material more quickly in the public sphere.\n\nMessageboards are another platform for open-source culture. Messageboards (also known as discussion boards or forums), are places online where people with similar interests can congregate and post messages for the community to read and respond to. Messageboards sometimes have moderators who enforce community standards of etiquette such as banning users who are spammers. Other common board features are private messages (where users can send messages to one another) as well as chat (a way to have a real time conversation online) and image uploading. Some messageboards use phpBB, which is a free open-source package. Where blogs are more about individual expression and tend to revolve around their authors, messageboards are about creating a conversation amongst its users where information can be shared freely and quickly. Messageboards are a way to remove intermediaries from everyday life—for instance, instead of relying on commercials and other forms of advertising, one can ask other users for frank reviews of a product, movie or CD. By removing the cultural middlemen, messageboards help speed the flow of information and exchange of ideas.\n\nOpenDocument is an open document file format for saving and exchanging editable office documents such as text documents (including memos, reports, and books), spreadsheets, charts, and presentations. Organizations and individuals that store their data in an open format such as OpenDocument avoid being locked into a single software vendor, leaving them free to switch software if their current vendor goes out of business, raises their prices, changes their software, or changes their licensing terms to something less favorable.\n\nOpen-source movie production is either an open call system in which a changing crew and cast collaborate in movie production, a system in which the end result is made available for re-use by others or in which exclusively open-source products are used in the production. The 2006 movie Elephants Dream is said to be the \"world's first open movie\", created entirely using open-source technology.\n\nAn open-source documentary film has a production process allowing the open contributions of archival material footage, and other filmic elements, both in unedited and edited form, similar to crowdsourcing. By doing so, on-line contributors become part of the process of creating the film, helping to influence the editorial and visual material to be used in the documentary, as well as its thematic development. The first open-source documentary film is the non-profit \"The American Revolution\", which went into development in 2006, and will examine the role media played in the cultural, social and political changes from 1968 to 1974 through the story of radio station WBCN-FM in Boston. The film is being produced by Lichtenstein Creative Media and the non-profit Filmmakers Collaborative. Open Source Cinema is a website to create Basement Tapes, a feature documentary about copyright in the digital age, co-produced by the National Film Board of Canada.\nOpen-source film-making refers to a form of film-making that takes a method of idea formation from open-source software, but in this case the 'source' for a filmmaker is raw unedited footage rather than programming code. It can also refer to a method of film-making where the process of creation is 'open' i.e. a disparate group of contributors, at different times contribute to the final piece.\n\nOpen-IPTV is IPTV that is not limited to one recording studio, production studio, or cast. Open-IPTV uses the Internet or other means to pool efforts and resources together to create an online community that all contributes to a show.\n\nWithin the academic community, there is discussion about expanding what could be called the \"intellectual commons\" (analogous to the Creative Commons). Proponents of this view have hailed the Connexions Project at Rice University, OpenCourseWare project at MIT, Eugene Thacker's article on \"open-source DNA\", the \"Open Source Cultural Database\", Salman Khan's Khan Academy and Wikipedia as examples of applying open source outside the realm of computer software.\n\nOpen-source curricula are instructional resources whose digital source can be freely used, distributed and modified.\n\nAnother strand to the academic community is in the area of research. Many funded research projects produce software as part of their work. There is an increasing interest in making the outputs of such projects available under an open-source license. In the UK the Joint Information Systems Committee (JISC) has developed a policy on open-source software. JISC also funds a development service called OSS Watch which acts as an advisory service for higher and further education institutions wishing to use, contribute to and develop open-source software.\n\nOn 30 March 2010, President Barack Obama signed the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, which included $2 billion over four years to fund the TAACCCT program, which is described as \"the largest OER (open education resources) initiative in the world and uniquely focused on creating curricula in partnership with industry for credentials in vocational industry sectors like manufacturing, health, energy, transportation, and IT\".\n\nThe principle of sharing pre-dates the open-source movement; for example, the free sharing of information has been institutionalized in the scientific enterprise since at least the 19th century. Open-source principles have always been part of the scientific community. The sociologist Robert K. Merton described the four basic elements of the community—universal ism (an international perspective), communal ism (sharing information), disinterestedness (removing one's personal views from the scientific inquiry) and organized skepticism (requirements of proof and review) that accurately describe the scientific community today.\n\nThese principles are, in part, complemented by US law's focus on protecting expression and method but not the ideas themselves. There is also a tradition of publishing research results to the scientific community instead of keeping all such knowledge proprietary. One of the recent initiatives in scientific publishing has been open access—the idea that research should be published in such a way that it is free and available to the public. There are currently many open access journals where the information is available free online, however most journals do charge a fee (either to users or libraries for access). The Budapest Open Access Initiative is an international effort with the goal of making all research articles available free on the Internet.\n\nThe National Institutes of Health has recently proposed a policy on \"Enhanced Public Access to NIH Research Information\". This policy would provide a free, searchable resource of NIH-funded results to the public and with other international repositories six months after its initial publication. The NIH's move is an important one because there is significant amount of public funding in scientific research. Many of the questions have yet to be answered—the balancing of profit vs. public access, and ensuring that desirable standards and incentives do not diminish with a shift to open access.\n\nFarmavita.Net is a community of pharmaceuticals executives that has recently proposed a new business model of open-source pharmaceuticals. The project is targeted to development and sharing of know-how for manufacture of essential and life-saving medicines. It is mainly dedicated to the countries with less developed economies where local pharmaceutical research and development resources are insufficient for national needs. It will be limited to generic (off-patent) medicines with established use. By definition, a medicinal product has a \"well-established use\" if is used for at least 15 years, with recognized efficacy and an acceptable level of safety. In that event, the expensive clinical test and trial results could be replaced by appropriate scientific literature.\n\nBenjamin Franklin was an early contributor eventually donating all his inventions including the Franklin stove, bifocals, and the lightning rod to the public domain.\n\nNew NGO communities are starting to use the open-source technology as a tool. One example is the Open Source Youth Network started in 2007 in Lisboa by ISCA members.\n\nOpen innovation is also a new emerging concept which advocate putting R&D in a common pool. The Eclipse platform is openly presenting itself as an Open innovation network.\n\nCopyright protection is used in the performing arts and even in athletic activities. Some groups have attempted to remove copyright from such practices.\n\nIn 2012, Russian music composer, scientist and Russian Pirate Party member Victor Argonov presented detailed raw files of his electronic opera \"2032\" under free license CC-BY-NC 3.0. This opera was originally composed and published in 2007 by Russian label MC Entertainment as a commercial product, but then the author changed its status to free. In his blog he said that he decided to open raw files (including wav, midi and other used formats) to the public in order to support worldwide pirate actions against SOPA and PIPA. Several Internet resources, called \"2032\" the first open-source musical opera in history.\n\nThe following are events and applications that have been developed via the open source community, and echo the ideologies of the open source movement.\n\nOpen Education Consortium — an organization composed of various colleges that support open source and share some of their material online. This organization, headed by Massachusetts Institute of Technology, was established to aid in the exchange of open source educational materials.\n\nWikipedia — user-generated online encyclopedia with sister projects in academic areas, such as Wikiversity — a community dedicated to the creation and exchange of learning materials\n\nProject Gutenberg — prior to the existence of Google Scholar Beta, this was the first supplier of electronic books and the very first free library project\n\nSynthetic Biology- This new technology is potentially important because it promises to enable cheap, lifesaving new drugs as well as helping to yield biofuels that may help to solve our energy problem. Although synthetic biology has not yet come out of its \"lab\" stage, it has potential to become industrialized in the near future. In order to industrialize open source science, there are some scientists who are trying to build their own brand of it.\n\nThe open-access movement is a movement that is similar in ideology to the open source movement. Members of this movement maintain that academic material should be readily available to provide help with “future research, assist in teaching and aid in academic purposes.” The Open access movement aims to eliminate subscription fees and licensing restrictions of academic materials\n\nThe free-culture movement is a movement that seeks to achieve a culture that engages in collective freedom via freedom of expression, free public access to knowledge and information, full demonstration of creativity and innovation in various arenas and promotion of citizen liberties.\n\nCreative Commons is an organization that “develops, supports, and stewards legal and technical infrastructure that maximizes digital creativity, sharing, and innovation.” It encourages the use of protected properties online for research, education, and creative purposes in pursuit of a universal access. Creative Commons provides an infrastructure through a set of copyright licenses and tools that creates a better balance within the realm of “all rights reserved” properties. The Creative Commons license offers a slightly more lenient alternative to “all rights reserved” copyrights for those who do not wish to exclude the use of their material.\n\nThe Zeitgeist Movement is an international social movement that advocates a transition into a sustainable \"resource-based economy\" based on collaboration in which monetary incentives are replaced by commons-based ones with everyone having access to everything (from code to products) as in \"open source everything\". While its activism and events are typically focused on media and education, TZM is a major supporter of open source projects worldwide since they allow for uninhibited advancement of science and technology, independent of constraints posed by institutions of patenting and capitalist investment.\n\nP2P Foundation is an “international organization focused on studying, researching, documenting and promoting peer to peer practices in a very broad sense”. Its objectives incorporate those of the open source movement, whose principles are integrated in a larger socio-economic model.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59176835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59176835", "title": "Paying public domain", "text": "Paying public domain\n\nPaying public domain (, ) is a copyright regime where copies, presentations or performances of a work that has entered the public domain are still subject to royalties, which are payable to the state or to an authors' association.\nThe principle is that revenue from the work of long-dead artists should be used to support creativity of living artists.\nIt may apply only to certain types of work, such as folklore or traditional cultural expressions.\nHowever, communities that wish to control their traditional knowledge or cultural expressions may perceive the royalties as an unwelcome tax.\nPaying public domain regimes have been introduced and withdrawn in several countries. \nThey are still in place in several countries in South America and Africa.\n\nVictor Hugo, who also played an important role in developing the Berne Convention, was one of the earlier supporters of the concept of \"domaine public payant\", under which a nominal fee would be charged for copying or performing works in the public domain, and this would go into a common fund dedicated to helping artists, especially young people.\nAt this time, copyright in France was weak. \nThere was no post-mortem protection of works, but only a period of exploitation that started from the date of publication and could expire during the author's lifetime.\n\nA 1949 UNESCO report said that the normal sense of the term was that \"after the expiration of the normal period of protection, that is, when the work falls into the public domain, the work cannot be freely used, as it could in the case of normal free public domain. Instead, the user must pay a royalty, generally to the authors' societies, who utilize such funds for cultural purposes or to aid needy authors or their families. In some cases, the state also participates in such fees.\"\nA 2010 WIPO report said that under these regimes \"a fee is imposed for the use of works in the public domain. Generally, the system works like a compulsory license: the use is conditioned on payment of the prescribed fee but not upon the securing of a prior authorization.\"\n\nFees payable to the state and/or the authors' society vary from country to country.\nThe user must pay the fee, but does not have to obtain prior authorization.\nThe fee may only be applicable to commercial exploitation of the material.\nIt usually applies only to works that have entered the public domain because their copyright has expired, but in some countries it applies to expressions of folklore.\nUsually the fees are used to fund young or struggling creators, or to promote creative works, but in Algeria they are used to preserve the public domain itself.\nThe cost of administration may absorb much of the money, but if the fees are to high they may discourage use of public domain materials.\n\nThe concept has been proposed as a way to protect traditional cultural expressions, but may not be suitable for communities more interested in control over traditional knowledge and traditional cultural expressions than in compensation.\nIt might be difficult to establish the true owners and the types of work to which it would apply, and it could be seen simply as a form of taxation.\n\nThe 1949 UNESCO report said there were only five countries that had laws that adopted this system: Uruguay (since 1937), Bulgaria (since 1939), Italy (since 1941), Rumania [sic] (since 1946) and Yugoslavia (since 1946).\nThe report thought that some form of \"domaine public payant\" might also apply in Russia.\nIn Bulgaria, Uruguay and Yugoslavia, the rule applied to any sort of public domain work.\nIn Italy it was limited to presentation of works intended for public showing and musical works, and to books.\nIn Rumania it applied to publication and representation of literary and dramatic works.\nIn Bulgaria the duration lasted for 20 years after the work entered the public domain, but in the other countries it was perpetual.\n\nIn the past Brazil (1973–83), Italy (1882–1925 and 1941–96), France (1956–76) and Mexico (1963–93) had paying public domain regimes, but have since abolished them.\nA 1984 article listed Argentina, Italy, Mexico and the USSR among the countries that had adopted some form of the system.\nA 2017 article noted that in Argentina and Uruguay a fee was payable to the state for almost every use of works in the public domain, whether or not for commercial purposes, including reproduction, publication, performance and broadcasting.\n\nThe 2010 WIPO report noted the paying public domain was still in force in Algeria, Kenya, Rwanda, Senegal, Republic of the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire and Paraguay. \nIt explained that the Bangui Agreement of the OAPI (Organisation Africaine de la Propriété Intellectuelle) and its Annex on literary and artistic property provided for such a regime for exploitation of expressions of folklore and works or productions that have fallen into the public domain.\nA similar system, called \"Community Intellectual Rights\", has been proposed in Latin America, inspired in part by Peru's Law No. 27811.\nThe concept is that \"traditional knowledge should stay in the public domain for anyone to use, but originators should share in the benefits when it is used for commercial purposes. Furthermore, these rights should not be subject to time limits.\n\nThere have been proposals to introduce a \"domaine public payant\" system across Europe, but as of 2001 the idea had not gained much support.\nThe German Writers Union has proposed a modern version on the grounds that \"droit de suite\" and \"domaine public payant\" should be linked, since \"droit de suite\" usually benefits the distant heirs of dead artists rather than being used to encourage living artists.\nA proposal discussed and rejected for the 1993 Term Directive was that the last 20 years of \"post mortem auctoris\" fees should be used to benefit living artists rather than the artist's heirs.\n\nUnder Algeria's 19 July 2003 Copyrights and Related Rights Act, works of traditional cultural heritage and national works considered as public\nproperty are granted special protection [Article 8].\nThe National Bureau of Copyrights and Neighboring Rights protects these works [Article 139].\nTheir use is subject to a license from the Bureau, and if the use is profitable a royalty is payable to the Bureau [Article 140].\n\nBurundi Act 1/021 2005 Article 25 says:\n\nCape Verde \"Decree-Law No. 1/2009\" of April 27, 2009 says \"The use and exploitation, for financial gain, of works in the public domain shall be free as long as such use is subordinate to absolute respect for the moral rights, on the previous authorization of the member of Government responsible for culture and the payment of a fee to be set by the members of Government responsible for culture and finance, with the purpose of promotion and cultural development and social assistance to Cape Verdean authors.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "30003824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30003824", "title": "Personal Flag", "text": "Personal Flag\n\nPersonal Flag (1983–2005) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse. Bred and raced by Ogden Phipps, he was sired by Private Account and out of the mare Grecian Banner, a daughter of Hoist The Flag He was a full brother to Personal Ensign.\n\nTrained by Shug McGaughey, among his notable race wins, Personal Flag won the Grade 1 Widener Handicap in 1987 and the then Grade 1 Suburban Handicap in 1988.\n\nPersonal Flag was euthanized in 2005 due to the infirmities of old age.\n"}
{"id": "5468371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5468371", "title": "Qualimetry", "text": "Qualimetry\n\nQualimetry is a scientific discipline which concerns itself with the methods and problems of quantification of the quality of any object: things or processes, whether natural or man-made, products of labour or nature, whether living or inanimate, etc.\n\nIt is a scientific theory of the quantitative determination of quality developed in the former USSR by G.G.Azgaldov and currently used in development of Russian standards (GOST), etc.\n\n\"The term qualimetry (from the Latin quale, “of what kind”), which designates a scientific discipline studying the methodology and problems of quantitative assessment of the quality of any kind of object (primarily, products), was first used in 1968. That this initiative was timely and justifiable was borne out by a series of international scholarly conferences fully or partly devoted to issues of qualimetry, e.g., in Moscow, Oslo, Varna, Yerevan, Madrid or Tallinn. \nThe term qualimetry is being gradually admitted into the scientific and engineering vocabularies of many countries. According to Google, tens of thousands of references to publications in 32 languages contain this term. \" \n"}
{"id": "46786524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46786524", "title": "Rick L. Edgeman", "text": "Rick L. Edgeman\n\nRick L. Edgeman (born 1954) is an American statistician and quality professional, and Professor of Sustainability & Performance at AU Herning and in the Interdisciplinary Center for Organizational Architecture, at Aarhus University, School of Business and Social Sciences. He primarily known for his work on Quality Management, Performance Management, and within the recent years Sustainable Enterprise Excellence (SEE).\n\nBefore Aarhus University prior posts include Statistical Science Department Professor & Chair at the University of Idaho (2004-2011), QUEST Professor & QUEST Honors Program Executive Director in the Robert H. Smith School of Business at the University of Maryland (2001-2004), Professor of Computer Information Systems & Director of the Center for Quality & Productivity Improvement (CQPI) at Colorado State University (1988-2001), and early career stints at the University of North Texas, Bradley University, and in the Center for Quality & Applied Statistics at the Rochester Institute of Technology. A Six Sigma Black Belt, Rick was a Visiting Professor in the Quality & Environmental Management Division at Luleå University (Sweden) and Invited Professor at the Versailles Business School, University of Versailles Saint-Quentin en Yvelines (France). Invited lectures and keynotes include ones at Oxford University, the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, and on behalf of the National Science Foundation. In 1992 he was a Special Congressional Fulbright Senior Scholar under the Securing Eastern European Democracy (SEED) Program to Comenius University in Czechoslovakia, although delayed notification prevented appointment acceptance.\n\nEDUCATION\n\nEdgeman's research addresses quality, innovation, consciousness, six sigma innovation & design, sustainability, and statistical methods for quality & reliability engineering He has served on the Editorial Review Boards of Total Quality Management & Business Excellence, The Six Sigma Forum, Quality Engineering, International Journal of Product Development, International Journal of Manufacturing Technology & Management, International Journal of Business Performance Management, and the Business & Entrepreneurship Journal.\n\n\nLink to full list of publications\n\n"}
{"id": "16058949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16058949", "title": "Rockefeller-Aldrich family political line", "text": "Rockefeller-Aldrich family political line\n\n\nNOTE: John D. Rockefeller IV and Winthrop Paul Rockefeller are also former third cousins by marriage of U.S. Senator William Proxmire.\n\n"}
{"id": "589997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=589997", "title": "Silicon Fen", "text": "Silicon Fen\n\nSilicon Fen (sometimes known as the Cambridge Cluster) is the name given to the region around Cambridge, England, which is home to a large cluster of high-tech businesses focusing on software, electronics and biotechnology. Many of these businesses have connections with the University of Cambridge, and the area is now one of the most important technology centres in Europe.\n\nIt is called \"Silicon Fen\" by analogy with Silicon Valley in California, because it lies at the southern tip of the English Fenland. The interest in technology in the area started with Acorn Computers.\n\nMore than 1000 high-technology companies established offices in the area during the five years preceding 1998. Some early successful businesses were Advanced RISC Machines and Cambridge Display Technology. In 2004, 24% of all UK venture capital (8% of all the EU's) was received by Silicon Fen companies, according to the Cambridge Cluster Report 2004 produced by Library House and Grant Thornton.\n\nThe so-called \"Cambridge phenomenon\", giving rise to start-up companies in a town previously only having a little light industry in the electrical sector, is usually dated to the founding of the Cambridge Science Park in 1970: this was an initiative of Trinity College, Cambridge University and moved away from a traditional low-development policy for Cambridge.\n\nThe characteristic of Cambridge is small companies (as few as three people, in some cases) in sectors such as computer-aided design. Over time the number of companies has grown; it has not proved easy to count them, but recent estimates have placed the number anywhere between 1,000 and 3,500 companies. They are spread over an area defined perhaps by the CB postcode or 01223 telephone area code, or more generously in an area bounded by Ely, Newmarket, Saffron Walden, Royston and Huntingdon.\n\nIn 2000, then Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown set up a research partnership between MIT and Cambridge University, the Cambridge–MIT Institute, in order to increase international collaboration between the two universities and to strengthen the economic success of Silicon Fen.\n\nIn February 2006, the Judge Business School, Cambridge University reported estimates that suggested that at that time, there were around 250 active start-ups directly linked to the University, valued at around US$6 billion. Only a tiny proportion of these companies have so far grown into multinationals: ARM, Autonomy Corporation and AVEVA are the most obvious examples, and more recently CSR has seen rapid growth due to the uptake of Bluetooth.\n\nIt was found in 2012 that strong employment growth was hampered due to the concentration on research and development. This was because of limited competition in manufacturing capability and its consequent cost.\n\nRecent work by Cambridge Ahead, the business and academic membership organisation dedicated to the successful growth of the city region in the long-term, has shown that in 2015-16, growth of Cambridge companies continued at around 7% on a one, three and five-year view. Global turnover of Cambridge companies increased by 7.6% to £35.7bn, up from £33bn the previous year, and global employment grew by 7.6% to 210,292. The number of companies with their home base within 20 miles of Cambridge has grown from 22,017 to 24,580.\n\nWhat is striking about the data is that 2015-16 was just another typical 7% growth year for Cambridge. Over the past five years (2010-11 to 2015-16) the turnover of Cambridge companies has grown by 7.5% per annum, and employment by 6.6% per annum.\n\nThe growth of Silicon Fen is best revealed by the Cambridge Cluster Map, a new data tool that accurately maps the growth of the Cambridge sub-region over time and reveals the true extent of the success of the ‘Cambridge Phenomenon’. The map was created and launched in July 2016 by Cambridge Ahead in partnership with Barclays, working with the Centre for Business Research (CBR) at the University of Cambridge, and is an updated version of the previous Cluster Map covering the Tech sector launched in 2012.\n\nThe new dataset identifies and locates companies and certain research facilities that are active within a 20-mile radius of the centre of the city and shows three types of organisations: Cambridge-based companies, Cambridge-active companies, and Non-corporate Knowledge-intensive (KI) organisations.\n\nThe region has one of the most flexible job markets in the technology sector, and people are often employed by other companies after a start-up fails. Although everyone wants their company to succeed, failures are tolerated, indeed almost expected.\n\nOne reason for the area's success is that after some time such an employment market is self-sustaining, since employees are willing to move to an area that promises a future beyond any one company. Another factor is the high degree of 'networking', enabling people across the region to find partners, jobs, funding, and know-how. Organisations have sprung up to facilitate this process, for example the Cambridge Network.\n\nAnother factor is the academic pre-eminence of Cambridge University, which is one of the top 5 universities in the world, a high standard of living available in the county, and good transport links, for example to London and with Cambridge Airport having a full service business jet centre. Many graduates from the university choose to stay on in the area, giving local companies a rich pool of talent to draw upon . The high-technology industry has little by way of competition, unlike say in Oxfordshire where many other competing industries exist. Because Cambridgeshire was not until recently a high-technology centre, commercial rents were generally lower than in other parts of the UK, giving companies a head-start on those situated in other more expensive regions; this has, however, recently changed and Cambridgeshire now has one of the highest costs of living in the UK outside London.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38937462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38937462", "title": "Silvio Denz", "text": "Silvio Denz\n\nSilvio Werner Denz (born 14 September 1956 in Basel, Switzerland) is a Swiss entrepreneur and collector of wine and art, currently living in Switzerland. He worked for various companies in Switzerland and the United States in finance, retail and marketing. He now operates mainly in the fields of luxury goods and wine. The Swiss business magazine \"Bilanz\" ranks him among the 300 wealthiest Swiss citizens and, more recently, among the 100 most important figures of the Swiss economy.\n\nIn 1980 Silvio Denz took over the management of Zurich-based Alrodo AG, at that time was owned by his father and uncle. Initially with eight employees, the company purchased perfumes and cosmetics for imported perfumery retailers. After acquiring all the equity in Alrodo in 1984, he built up the company over the next 20 years to become Switzerland's largest perfumery chain, with 120 branches. Between 1980 and 2000, the number of employees rose from 8 to 800. In 2000 Denz sold Alrodo to the French perfumery chain Marionnaud. In the same year he founded Lalique Group (formerly known as Art & Fragrance) specializing in the creation, production and marketing of perfume and cosmetic brands such as Perfumes Alain Delon, Parfums Grès, Perfumes Lalique, Jaguar Fragrances, Bentley Fragrances and Ultrasun. The company has been listed on the stock exchange since 2007. It was first listed on the BX Berne eXchange and since June 2018 the Group has been listed on SIX Swiss Exchange.\nSilvio Denz accumulated the world's largest private collection of vintage perfume bottles designed by René Lalique, comprising over 650 original pieces. In 2008 the company acquired the French crystalware house Lalique S.A. The group became profitable again after being restructured, with branding focused on art, decorative items, interior design, jewellery, perfume and hospitality. Co-branding projects were developed between Lalique and various other luxury brands (including Bentley, The Macallan and Steinway & Sons). Collaborations were also signed with artists such as Zaha Hadid, Jean-Michel Jarre, Damien Hirst, and Elton John, resulting in collections for the company, in some cases. In 2011, the Lalique museum in Wingen-sur-Moder (Alsace) opened to display more than 650 pieces designed by René Lalique and his successors, including jewellery, crystal and decorative glass. Denz loaned 230 pieces from his personal collection, mostly perfume bottles. Denz also converted René Lalique's villa in Wingen-sur-Moder into a luxury hotel and restaurant, which opened in September 2015.\n\nIn 1994 Silvio Denz, along with Franz Wermuth and five other partners, founded Les Grand Vins Wermuth S.A., now split into Denz Weine (distribution) and Wermuth Auktionen AG (auctions) in Zurich. In 1998, acting with the same partners, he bought the Clos d'Agon estate on the Costa Brava, which is overseen by the oenologist Peter Sisseck (Dominio Pingus).\n\nIn 2005, on the recommendation of his friend Count Stephan von Neipperg (Château Canon-la-Gaffelière and La Mondotte), Denz bought the Château Faugères estate, six kilometers east of Saint Emilion. Faugères, which has 30 employees, comprises three vineyards: Château Faugères, Château Péby Faugères, both lying in the Saint-Emilion appellation, and Château Cap-de-Faugères in Côtes de Castillion. In 2010, he and Peter Sisseck took over the vineyard of Château Rocheyron in Saint-Emilion. The estates in Bordeaux cover a total of 120 hectares. Silvio Denz also owns the Montepeloso winery in Italy (which he acquired with Fabio Chiarelotto in 2007).\n\nThe winery at Château Faugères was designed by the architect Mario Botta. He describes his creation as a \"cathedral of wine\". Using modern technology coupled with traditional methods, such as gravity-filling, the wines are aged in oak barrels. In 2012 Château Faugères and Château Péby Faugères were awarded the status of Grand Cru Classé of Saint-Emilion. According to the wine critic Robert Parker, Château Péby Faugères today ranks among the finest Bordeaux wines. In 2015 the influential Parker's Wine Buyer's Guide rated Château Péby Faugères Vintage 2005 100/100. In February 2014, Silvio Denz acquired Château Lafaurie-Peyraguey, one of the few Premiers Grands Crus Classés of 1855 and one of the oldest vineyards in Sauternes. Silvio Denz's wine businesses are held in Art & Terroir.\n\nOn September 17, 2017, Silvio Denz was inducted as a Saint-Emilion Jurat. The Jurade of Saint-Emilion currently consists of 127 Jurats and more than 3000 Saint-Emilion wine ambassadors worldwide. In October 2017, he was awarded a Special Jury Prize from Fond’Action Alsace for his active involvement in the Alsace region. In the same month, he then went on to receive the Guillon d’Or award from the Guillon d’Or award, a Vaudois wine brotherhood founded in 1954, commending his passion and performance in the world of wine.\n\nIn 2003 Silvio Denz entered the real estate business in London. Working with local partners, he buys, renovates, and then resells traditional town houses in Mayfair, Knightsbridge and Kensington.\n\nSilvio Denz collects works of art via his company Art & Trade.\n\nHe has been buying vintage wines for over 30 years, mainly from Bordeaux. His private cellar contains more than 35,000 bottles.\n\nHis interest in perfume bottles dates from his time at Alrodo. Today, he is the owner of the world's largest private collection of bottles by the celebrated French glass artist René Lalique.\n\nMember of the Board of Directors Lindt & Sprüngli (2018); Member \"Chaîne des Rôtisseurs\", Alsace (2018) ; Saint-Emilion Jurat, The Jurade of Saint-Emilion 17 September (2017); Special Jury Prize, Fond’Action Alsace (2017); The Guillon d’Or award, Confrérie du Guillon (2017); Member \"Keepers of the Quaich\", Scotland(2015); Honorary member, Confrérie Saint-Etienne d'Alsace (2017); Member \"Club Prosper Montagne\" (2016)\n\n"}
{"id": "458354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=458354", "title": "South Street Seaport", "text": "South Street Seaport\n\nThe South Street Seaport is a historic area in the New York City borough of Manhattan, centered where Fulton Street meets the East River, and adjacent to the Financial District. The Seaport is a designated historic district, and is distinct from the neighboring Financial District. It is part of Manhattan Community Board 1 in Lower Manhattan, and is bounded by the Financial District to the west, southwest, and north; the East River to the southeast; and Two Bridges to the northeast.\n\nIt features some of the oldest architecture in downtown Manhattan, and includes the largest concentration of restored early 19th-century commercial buildings in the city. This includes renovated original mercantile buildings, renovated sailing ships, the former Fulton Fish Market, and modern tourist malls featuring food, shopping, and nightlife.\n\nThe first pier in the area appeared in 1625, when the Dutch West India Company founded an outpost here. With the influx of the first settlers, the area was quickly developed. One of the first and busiest streets in the area was today's Pearl Street, so named for a variety of coastal pearl shells. Due to its location, Pearl Street quickly gained popularity among traders. The East River was eventually narrowed. By the second half of the 17th century, the pier was extended to Water Street, then to Front Street, and by the beginning of the 19th century, to South Street. The pier was well reputed, as it was protected from westerly winds and ice of the Hudson River.\n\nIn 1728, the Schermerhorn Family established trade with the city of Charleston, South Carolina. Subsequently, rice and indigo came from Charleston. At the time, the port was also the focal point of delivery of goods from England. In 1776, during the American Revolutionary War, the British occupied the port, adversely affecting port trade for eight years. In 1783, many traders returned to England, and most port enterprises collapsed. The port quickly recovered from the post-war crisis. From 1797 until the middle of 19th century, New York had the country's largest system of maritime trade. From 1815 to 1860 the port was called the Port of New York.\n\nOn February 22, 1784, the \"Empress of China\" sailed from the port to Guangzhou and returned to Philadelphia on May 15, 1785, bringing along, in its cargo, green and black teas, porcelain, and other goods. This operation marked the beginning of trade relations between the newly formed United States and the Qing Empire.\n\nOn January 5, 1818, the 424-ton transatlantic packet \"James Monroe\" sailed from Liverpool, opening the first regular trans-Atlantic voyage route, the Black Ball Line. Shipping on this route continued until 1878. Commercially successful transatlantic traffic has led to the creation of many competing companies, including the Red Star Line in 1822. Transportation significantly contributed to the establishment of the New York one of the centers of world trade.\n\nOne of the largest companies in the South Street Seaport area was the Fulton Fish Market, opened in 1822. In 2005, it was moved to the area of Hunts Point, Bronx.\n\nIn November 1825, the Erie Canal, located upstate, was opened. The canal, connecting New York to the western United States, facilitated the economic development of the city. However, for this reason, along with the beginning of the shipping era, there was a need to lengthen the piers and deepen the port.\n\nOn the night of December 17, 1835 a large fire in New York City destroyed 17 blocks, and many buildings in the South Street Seaport burned to the ground. Nevertheless, by the 1840s, the port recovered, and by 1850, it reached its heyday:\n\nAt its peak, the port hosted many commercial enterprises, institutions, ship-chandlers, workshops, boarding houses, saloons, and brothels. However, by the 1880s, the port began to be depleted of resources, space for the development of these businesses was diminishing, and the port became too shallow for newer ships. By the 1930s, most of the piers no longer functioned, and cargo ships docked mainly on ports on the West Side and in Hoboken. By the late 1950s, the old Ward Line docks, comprising Piers 15, 16, and part of 17, were mostly vacant.\n\nThe South Street Seaport Museum was founded in 1967 by Peter and Norma Stanford. When originally opened as a museum, the focus of the Seaport Museum conservation was to be an educational historic site, with shops mostly operating as reproductions of working environments found during the Seaport's heyday.\n\nIn 1982, redevelopment began to turn the museum into a greater tourist attraction via development of modern shopping areas. The project was undertaken by the prominent developer James Rouse and modeled on the concept of a \"festival marketplace,\" a leading revitalization strategy throughout the 1970s. On the other side of Fulton Street from Schermerhorn Row, the main Fulton Fish Market building, which had become a large plain garage-type structure, was rebuilt as an upscale shopping mall. Pier 17's old platforms were demolished and a new glass shopping pavilion raised in its place, which opened in August 1983.\n\nThe original intent of the Seaport development was the preservation of the block of buildings known as Schermerhorn Row on the southwest side of Fulton Street, which were threatened with neglect or future development, at a time when the history of New York City's sailing ship industry was not valued, except by some antiquarians. Early historic preservation efforts focused on these buildings and the acquisition of several sailing ships. Almost all buildings and the entire Seaport neighborhood are meant to transport the visitor back in time to New York's mid-19th century, to demonstrate what life in the commercial maritime trade was like. Docked at the Seaport are a few historical sailing vessels, including the \"Wavertree\". A section of nearby Fulton Street is preserved as cobblestone and lined with shops, bars, and restaurants. The Bridge Cafe, which claims to be \"The Oldest Drinking Establishment in New York\" is in a building that formerly housed a brothel.\n\nIn 2012, Hurricane Sandy heavily damaged the Seaport; tidal floods (seven feet deep in places) inundated much of the Seaport causing extensive damage that forced an end to plans to restore the Museum's fortunes by merging it into the Museum of the City of New York. Many of the businesses closed, and the remaining businesses suffered from a severe drop in business after the storm. The South Street Seaport Museum re-opened in December 2012. The Howard Hughes Corporation, the Seaport's owner, announced that it would tear down the Seaport's most prominent shopping area, Pier 17, as part of a broader redevelopment of the neighborhood. The new pier, containing retail, restaurants, and a rooftop performance venue, is set to open in summer 2018.\n\nThe Seaport is currently owned and managed by Howard Hughes Corporation. Formerly, it was run by General Growth Properties, which acquired the Seaport's longtime owner, The Rouse Company, in 2004. As part of its restructuring, General Growth spun off the Howard Hughes Corporation.\n\nDesignated by Congress in 1998 as one of several museums which together make up \"America's National Maritime Museum\", South Street Seaport Museum sits in a 12 square-block historic district that is the site of the original port of New York City. The Museum has over of exhibition space and educational facilities. It houses exhibition galleries, a working 19th-century print shop, an archeology museum, a maritime library, a craft center, a marine life conservation lab, and the largest privately owned fleet of historic ships in the country.\n\nAt the Seaport a mall and tourism center, is built on Pier 17 on the East River. It was reconstructed in the 2010s and reopened in June 2018. Decks outside on pier 15 allow views of the East River, Brooklyn Bridge, and Brooklyn Heights. The Paris Cafe, within the South Street Seaport historic area, is claimed to be one of the oldest bars in New York City. \n\nAt the entrance to the Seaport is the Titanic Memorial lighthouse.\n\nSports broadcaster ESPN opened a radio and television studio at Pier 17 in April 2018, covering .\n\nThe museum has five vessels docked permanently or semi-permanently, four of which have formal historical status.\n\nLegend:\n\nThe \"Pioneer\" and \"W. O. Decker\" operate during favorable weather.\n\nSouth Street Seaport is currently served by the New York City Bus route.\n\nNew York Water Taxi directly serves South Street Seaport on Fridays, weekends, and holidays during the summer, while other New York Water Taxi, NYC Ferry, and SeaStreak ferries serve the nearby ferry slip at Pier 11/Wall Street daily.\n\nThe Fulton Street/Fulton Center station complex () is the closest New York City Subway station. A new subway station, provisionally called Seaport, has been proposed as part of the unfunded Phase 4 of the Second Avenue Subway. Although this station will be located only 3 blocks from the Fulton Street station, there are no plans for a free transfer between them.\n\nFilm:\n\nGames:\n\nMusic:\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9982652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9982652", "title": "Talal Abu-Ghazaleh", "text": "Talal Abu-Ghazaleh\n\nTalal Abu-Ghazaleh () is the chairman and founder of the international Jordan-based organisation, the Talal Abu-Ghazaleh Organization (TAG-Org). Dubbed as the godfather of Arab accounting, Abu-Ghazaleh has also been credited for promoting the significance of Intellectual Property in the Arab region.\n\nBorn on April 22, 1938 in Jaffa, Palestine, Abu-Ghazaleh eventually moved to the Lebanese village of Ghaziyeh.\n\nWhilst still an undergraduate, he worked as a teacher and translator. His first job after graduating was at Saba & Co. IP. \n\nIn 1969, upon hearing a speech on intellectual property (IP) at a Time-Warner conference in San Francisco, USA, Abu-Ghazaleh decided to launch a career in the fields of Intellectual property rights (IPRs) and accounting.\n\nIn 1972, two firms - Talal Abu-Ghazaleh Company (TAGCO) and Abu-Ghazaleh Intellectual Property (AGIP) - were set up, specializing in the fields of accounting and IP respectively. Since then, Abu-Ghazaleh founded a total of 140 professional service firms specialized in various sector fields such as management, consulting, legal services, IT and much more.\n\nOver the years, Abu-Ghazaleh managed to establish close partnerships with global organizations such as the UN and the WTO.\n\nOn April 4, 2007, UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon appointed Abu-Ghazaleh, as deputy chairman of the UN Global Compact during its second meeting held at the UN headquarters in New York.\nOn October 24, 2007, Abu-Ghazaleh was inducted to the IP Hall of Fame in Chicago, USA, to become the first expert from outside the G8 countries to join the world's most prominent figures in IP.\n\nOn June 17, 2009, UN appoints Abu-Ghazaleh Chair of UN Global Alliance for ICT and Development. After receiving a letter from the Under-Secretary General of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA) HE Sha Zukang inviting him to lead the Alliance, composed of representatives from public, private and civil society sectors as well as international organizations.\n\nOn November 25, 2010, HE Senator Talal Abu-Ghazaleh, chairman and CEO of Talal Abu-Ghazaleh Organization (TAG-Org) was appointed a member of the Upper House according to a Royal Decree by His Majesty King Abdullah II .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36324477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36324477", "title": "The Entertainer (discount publisher)", "text": "The Entertainer (discount publisher)\n\nThe Entertainer is a publisher of buy one get one free (2 for 1) offers for restaurants, leisure attractions, spas, hotel accommodation and more across the Middle East, Asia, Africa and Europe. \n\nThe Entertainer has 46 products (books and apps) that cover 40 destinations across 15 countries. \n\nThe Entertainer is privately owned and has offices in the UAE, Qatar, Singapore, Hong Kong, Malaysia, South Africa, Cyprus and the UK.\n\nIn early 2012, Abraaj Capital announced their purchase of 50% of the Entertainer. In March 2012, the Entertainer announced a significant investment from Abraaj Capital’s small to mid cap investment arm – RED Investments.\n\nIn November 2013, the Entertainer launched a smartphone app. In addition to all the offers in the printed books, the App includes access to even more exclusive offers added each month, which includes brunches, new restaurant openings and special promotions. Features include GPS mapping, advanced search capabilities allowing you to filter against certain attributes, social sharing and integration with Trip Advisor and Careem.\n\nIn 2015, the average Dubai customer saved over AED 6,000 (US$1,600) with the Entertainer App, which has seen over 2 million buy one get one free mobile offers redeemed in the UAE alone.\n\nThe Entertainer signs up restaurants, leisure attractions, spas, gyms, hotels and more to sign up each year. Each merchant provides three buy one get one free offers to be featured (apart from hotels who can feature just one offer). Merchants must provide these offers with few restrictions so that they can be used 7 days a week (excluding public holidays and approved dates). \n"}
{"id": "22355556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22355556", "title": "Theodor Bull", "text": "Theodor Bull\n\nTheodor Bull (1870 – 1958) was a Norwegian businessperson and genealogist.\n\nHe was born in Kristiania as a son of medical doctor Edvard Isak Hambro Bull (1845–1925). He was a brother of theatre director Johan Peter Bull, historian and politician Edvard Bull and literary professor Francis Bull. Through Edvard Bull he was the uncle of historian Edvard Bull. He was also a nephew of military officer Karl Sigwald Johannes Bull, grandnephew of Anders Sandøe Ørsted Bull, great-grandson of Georg Jacob Bull and great-great-grandson of Chief Justice Johan Randulf Bull.\n\nIn his professional career he worked as a wholesaler. He also published several genealogical works, and was the chairman of the Norwegian Genealogical Society from 1943 to 1952. In 1952 he was created an honorary member.\n"}
{"id": "38827706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38827706", "title": "Tori Richard", "text": "Tori Richard\n\nTori Richard is a Honolulu, Hawaii-based company which produces men's and women's resort wear. In its nearly 60-year history, the Tori Richard line has gone from exclusively women's fashions (featured in \"Vogue, Harper’s Bazaar, Mademoiselle, Glamour, Town & Country, Life\" and other national publications) to a line of upscale resort apparel, including sport shirts, Aloha shirts, tropical dresses, swimwear, separates, handbags, interior accents and a range of fashion and lifestyle accessories. Tori Richard resort wear targets those who enjoy art, travel and a casually upscale lifestyle. The collections are introduced biannually in showrooms on the east and west coasts.\n\nFounder Mort Feldman, an avid collector of Japanese antiques and screens, translated his passion into the East-West fabric prints that remain the Tori Richard signature. Textile print as an art form still defines the brand, as do fabrication, construction and attention to detail.\n\nCEO Josh Feldman, Mort Feldman's son, leads the locally owned family business as it approaches its 60th year. In two generations, the company has gone from designing primarily women's wear to becoming an international brand. Through its 10 retail stores, website and 2,500 wholesale accounts, Tori Richard is sold in all 50 states, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Guam, Europe, Asia, Australia and the Caribbean. The newest Tori Richard concept stores, primarily women's stores, are in Honolulu's Kahala Hotel & Resort and Mashpee Cape Cod, Massachusetts. More than 80 percent of Tori Richard sales are U.S. mainland-driven.\n\nAs many as 100 hours may be required to conceive, design and colorize the design and make each new design printable. Tori Richard gathers concept art year-round from company artists, studios, art collections, trade shows, retail outlets and private collections throughout Europe, Asia and the U.S. An in-house art and design team at the Honolulu headquarters expands on the concepts to create original Tori Richard resort prints. They adhere to specific criteria in design, color and placement, aiming for proportion, visual balance, and originality of the final design. When finalized, each TR print is copyrighted, named, and remains the exclusive property of the company. About 400 new prints are added annually to the TR archive, now numbering at least 25,000 designs.\n\nVital to each print is the number of color screens required. Printing a design on silk may require up to 22 screens, and for viscose, 17. Patterns are repeated every 24 to 30 inches, while in the larger “engineered” prints, a single image can take up an entire 60-inch panel. Designs range from tightly patterned images to broad, painterly, artistic motifs in both printed and, in the men's Hawaiian shirts, embroidered images. Various visual elements—palette, proportion, mood, message, soft or hard edges—affect the image selection and final print design.\n\nThe motifs range from bold geometric prints to botanical, nature-inspired and lifestyle-inspired images. Past designs of Tori Richard's apparel include images of maps, ocean sports, Kiplingesque animals and abstract designs, as well as crisp paisleys and tapa motifs in various fabrications. Variations of popular designs from past collections are sometimes brought back by popular demand. From the beginning, the Japanese aesthetic—stylized waves, water, cranes, fans, chrysanthemum petals, bamboo, textures and brushstrokes—has been prominent in the line.\n\nTori Richard has recently released its vintage-inspired 56 series, with its own signature themes, fabrications and a more tapered cut. Emblematic of 56 is the cotton, treated for the vintage-washed effect aimed towards the younger demographic. The Tori Richard line also includes seasonal themes in high-end fabrics, with embroidered, engineered designs in heavyweight silks.\n\nTori Richard pioneered the matched pockets and fronts, now an industry standard. This feature matches the print so there is no interruption in design at the pocket or front seams.\n\nTori Richard fabrics include silks, silk blends, Pima cotton, cotton blends, linen and linen blends, Tencel©, cotton jacquard and spun viscose, as well as a fine proprietary Egyptian cotton called cotton lawn, giving a finish exclusive to Tori Richard. High-end silks, such as silk jacquard, also appear in single, bold embroidered patterns comprising the more luxurious end of the men's line. Some of the fabrics are made in Japan, unusual among retailers today.\n\nThe details of a Tori Richard shirt include laser-etched mother-of-pearl buttons, French seams (raw edges turned in, sewn and invisible), matched pockets, and collars with interlining, an extra layer of fabric fused to the inside of the collar to add crispness and prevent droop.\n\nTori Richard's women's line includes dresses, capris, tops, tunics, peplum tanks, beach cover-ups, sarong-style and asymmetrical skirts, as well as shorts and modernized caftans in black, exotic prints and casual geometrics. Colors are inspired by the dunes of Marrakech, the deserts of Africa, autumn in the northeast, nature and deep ocean. The women's resort wear goes from day to evening and from beach to dinner, casual to elegant. Styles range from off-shoulder, one-shoulder, strapless and spaghetti-strap dresses to skinny, shirred and dolman-sleeved tops paired with skinny pants in all lengths and contemporary cuts.\n\nFabrics include cotton, cotton crepe, rayon, jersey knit blends, cotton-spandex piqué, and silk and silk blends, selected for drape, comfort and versatility. Prints for the women's line range from tapa-inspired tribal prints, botanical motifs, abstract geometricals and art-inspired motifs for a global resort market.\n\nJessica Burgess, formerly of Lilly Pulitzer and Shoshanna, heads up the women's division.\n\nWhile known for its resort wear and Hawaiian shirts, Tori Richard got its beginnings in women's wear. Founder Mort Feldman, an apparel manufacturer from Chicago, flew to the Territory of Hawaii in 1953 on Pan American's China Clipper, intending to retire. He established the company in 1956. With partners Janice Moody, formerly a sportswear designer for Catalina, and Mitsue Aka, Moody's pattern maker, he formed Tori Richard with one sewing machine and practically no capital. They named the company after Victoria (Tori, Moody's daughter) and Richard, Feldman's oldest son.\n\nTheir first office, at Pier 7 in Honolulu, was known to have floorboards that became damp from the tide rising in Honolulu Harbor. Among its early offices were a Quonset hut and the historic Primo Brewery, damaged by fire in 1973 and rebuilt to remain the company headquarters for 17 more years.\n\nSoon after its 1956 launch, Tori Richard became nationally known for the unfussy silhouettes, bright colors and dramatic prints of the dresses, culottes, beachwear, caftans and lounge wear of its high-fashion resort women's line, made largely of imported European fabrics at the time. Offices in key mainland markets—New York, California, Florida, Dallas and Chicago—attracted attention from high-end retailers, such as Saks Fifth Avenue, Lord & Taylor, Bergdorf Goodman, Gimbel's, I. Magnin, Neiman Marcus, Nordstrom, Best & Co. and Marshall Field.\n\nIn the 1960s and ‘70s, Fifth Avenue windows and top national fashion magazines featured Tori Richard in features and ads, many of them photographed on location in Hawaii. As the leisure life was the zeitgeist of the era, the Tori Richard fashions—tunics, harem pants, hostess sets, shifts, caftans, culottes, sarong swimsuits and Capri pants—catered to the cocktail, beach and patio parties that were popular at the time. The esthetics—streamlined and dramatic—departed from the tropical “aloha wear” for which Hawaii was known. Customers ranged from Lucille Ball to the King of Morocco to department store customers across the country.\n\nIn 1966, Mort Feldman and a fellow Hawaii fashion executive, Howard Hope, lobbied the Hawaii State Legislature to establish “Aloha Friday” as a state-sanctioned island practice. The effort succeeded, and businesses throughout the state wear aloha attire on Fridays, and, increasingly, on the other days of the week.\n\nThe company grew during the boom years of Hawaii tourism. From the early 1960s, soon after statehood in 1959 and the introduction of jet travel to Hawaii, fashion emerged as the third largest export of the state, with Tori Richard as one of the biggest fashion exporters. At the request of a Hawaii retailer named Liberty House, Tori Richard, using prints from its women's line, introduced its men's shirts in 1969. By the mid-1970s, the men's segment of the business was significant, and today the shirts and resort apparel, some of it avidly collected, are carried in all 50 states.\n\nCotton lawn, now a staple of the company with its proprietary finish, debuted in the 1970s and became a mainstay of the men's line.\n\nIn the 1980s, menswear eclipsed women's wear in the Tori Richard line. In 1983, Mort Feldman retired to New Zealand, to return to the U. S. three years later. His son, Josh, a graduate of Punahou School and the University of California at San Diego, with a degree in art and a degree in political science, dropped his ambitions for law school and joined Tori Richard in 1994. Under the younger Feldman's leadership, the company grew by over 600 percent.\n\nUpon his return in 1994, Josh Feldman managed the print and product division of the company. He re-introduced the engineered print to the product line in 1995 and redoubled efforts to identify Tori Richard as a print house.\n\nIn 2002, the women's line was relaunched, and a year later, the first Tori Richard retail store opened at the Hyatt Regency Waikīkī. Today there are Tori Richard shops at Ala Moana Center, The Shops at Wailea, Royal Hawaiian Hotel, Hilton Hawaiian Village and Whaler's Village in Ka‘anapali. The year 2006 saw the company's 50th anniversary and was also the year Tori Richard received the “Resort Retailer of the Year” award from Retail Merchants Hawaii. In 2012, the readers of the \"Honolulu Star-Advertiser\" voted Tori Richard “Best of the Best” in the aloha shirt category.\n\nThe company recently received film credit for creating George Clooney's shirts in “The Descendants,” the 2012 Academy Award winner for “Best Adapted Screenplay.” Working with costume designer Wendy Chuck, CEO Josh Feldman and his team provided George Clooney's shirts for many of the movie scenes.\n\nTori Richard also provides shirts for Alex O’Loughlin (Steve McGarrett) and Daniel Dae Kim (Chin Ho Kelly) in “Hawaii Five-0,” as it did for Jack Lord's Steve McGarrett in the original television series from 1968 to 1980.\n\nMusicians, such as Sammy Hagar and, Jimmy Buffett, have worn Tori Richard shirts in their performances, and some artists have worn them on their album covers.\n\nTori Richard designed the signature shirts for the more than 2,000 volunteers and staff of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), spearheaded by President Barack Obama in Honolulu in November 2011. Tori Richard also designed and created an exclusive aloha shirt for Obama and the 21 world leaders in attendance, an effort that required an original design, special limited print run, custom labeling and hand-sewing in Hawaii. The shirt was given to the delegation but was never worn at the official gathering.\n\nIn 2008, the company installed a $1.1-million, 154-kilowatt system at its corporate headquarters and warehouses in Honolulu, becoming one of the world's first solar-powered manufacturers and retailers. The system meets 94 percent of the company's electricity needs in its Honolulu headquarters. In 2011, the company installed an additional 105 KWH system on an adjacent property, effectively offsetting 100% of its carbon footprint.\n\n"}
{"id": "13339753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13339753", "title": "William Andrew Salius Fane de Salis", "text": "William Andrew Salius Fane de Salis\n\nWilliam Andreas Salius Fane de Salis (27 October 1812 – 3 August 1896) was a businessman, colonialist, and barrister.\n\nDe Salis was the third son of Jerome, 4th Count de Salis-Soglio (d. 1836), by his third wife, Henrietta Foster (d. 1856). Peter John Fane, Count de Salis was an elder half-brother. William Foster Stawell was a first cousin, and the poet Lord De Tabley was a nephew. Colonel Bisse-Challoner was a brother-in-law. General Rodolph de Salis was an elder brother and the Rev. Henry Jerome de Salis was his youngest brother and Rodolph, Cecil and Charles were nephews.\n\nBorn in St. Marylebone, Westminster, brought up in County Louth he was educated at Eton (1824–27); Heidelberg University (1828–29); and Oriel College, Oxford (1830–1834, Classics, 4th class). He was called to the Bar, 30 January 1836; and was at 3 Brick Court, Inner Temple, by 1840. He was appointed a revising barrister for Northamptonshire (1839), Nottingham and East Retford.\n\nFane de Salis visited Australia in 1842, 1844 and 1848 to pursue business opportunities in the Australian wool and other industries, then rapidly expanding. His younger brother Leopold Fabius Fane de Salis had migrated there in 1840. William became, with John Thacker, a partner in Thacker & Co, Jardine Matheson’s affiliated house in Sydney, but resigned from 1 July 1847. By 1848 he owned with Robert Towns a 345-ton barque, the \"Statesman\". This they sold, March 1854, for $16,500, she having had an accident 'on her passage up to China from Sydney' trading sandalwood, tea pines...\n\nOn his return to England de Salis joined the Grand Junction Canal Co in 1850 and held the following appointments:\n\nIn the early 1850s Fane de Salis lived between the Jerusalem Coffee House; Dawley Lodge (near Hillingdon); 1 Upper Belgrave Street; 24 Wilton Street, and 107 Eaton Square. From the late 1850s he lived at Dawley Court, near Hillingdon, and Harlington, Uxbridge, Middlesex and Teffont Manor, Teffont Evias, Wiltshire, home of his wife Emily Harriet (d 24 July 1896), eldest daughter of John Thomas Mayne, whom he married on 12 March 1859.\n\nFane de Salis was a Fellow of the Geological Society and of the Royal Geographical Society, JP for Middlesex, (1868), with his wife he was Lord of the Manor and Patron of the Living of Teffont, and JP for Wiltshire.\n\nWith J. D. Allcroft he co-founded the Harlington, Harmondsworth and Cranford Cottage Hospital in 1884. He left Dawley Court to his youngest brother's second son, Sir Cecil Fane De Salis, KCB, one of whose younger brothers was Charles Fane de Salis. At his death Fane de Salis left effects valued at £147,382 6s 7d. His nephew Rodolph was executor. His wife Emily had died only ten days earlier, leaving £1,930. Admiral Sir William Fane de Salis, KBE, was another nephew.\n\n"}
{"id": "57824599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57824599", "title": "Yaron Kanner", "text": "Yaron Kanner\n\nYaron Kanner is an Israeli social entrepreneur and lawyer, director of the Hinam Center for Social Tolerance.\n\nYaron Kanner was born in Tel Aviv in 1968. He studied at the Netiv Meir High School in Jerusalem and later at Yeshivat Ateret Cohanim (today known as Yeshivat Ateret Yerushalayim). He served in the \"Shimshon\" undercover unit in the IDF during the First Intifada. In the 1990s, he served as a correspondent for Israel Radio's Channel 2 network and, among others, was the first reporter to broadcast live on Israel Radio that shots were fired at then-prime minister Yitzhak Rabin. Later he broadcast a documentary program on television, mainly during \"The Diary\" on the IBA’s First Channel. He was also a reporter for Yedioth Ahronoth, writing for the \"7 Days\" supplement.\n\nAfter working as a journalist, he began to study social law. As a lawyer, he served as the director of the Legal Department of the Tebeka Association and led legal battles against the private and institutional discrimination of members of the Ethiopian community. Among others, he was one of the leaders of the legal struggle in the affair of the \"Nezer Etzion\" school in Petach Tikvah, whose students (except one) were members of the Ethiopian community.\n\nIn 2012-2013 he served as CEO of the Kol BaRama radio station, as director-general of Kol Barama, he led a respectful discourse towards all sectors, even if their views were contrary to the nature of the stationand. Then as director of Panim – the Association of Israeli Jewish Organizations. In addition, Kanner initiated his position as director general of Panim conferences dealing with the connection between groups and tribes in Israeli society, while trying to promote dialogue between the various groups. In 2016 founded the Hinam Center for Social Tolerance.\n\nThe investigative reports that Kanner published in Yedioth Ahronoth were characterized by an active approach, in which the journalist is not satisfied with presenting the evidence alone to prove the subject of his investigation, but is actively involved in the investigation itself. This way Kanner tried to produce articles that benefitted from high credibility.\n\nAbout two months before the assassination of then Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, Kanner entered the Eyal organization, where Yigal Amir was a member. During his recruitment to the organization, Avishai Raviv visited his home, and after that Kanner held meetings with Yigal Amir and Hagai Amir in Hebron and was due to join the organization as a weapons instructor. The purpose of the debriefing was to examine the intentions of the organization and its members, in light of their public threats against Yitzhak Rabin. The investigative report, which was planned to continue for several months, was interrupted by Rabin's assassination. Kanner immediately published a series of articles about his meetings with Yigal Amir and the other members of the organization.\n\nKanner served, at the time, as a reporter for the Israel Radio network. On November 4, 1995, he was sent by the radio network to cover the \"Yes to Peace, No to Violence\" rally held at Malkhei Yisrael Square (today Rabin Square in Tel Aviv). As stated, Kanner was the first reporter to report that shots were fired at Yitzhak Rabin as he descended the back stairs of the stage toward his car.\n\nIn 1996, Kanner conducted an investigation into forced psychiatric hospitalization, in which he managed to bring about his own hospitalization at the Abarbanel Psychiatric Hospital for four days, following fictitious letters of complaint he sent to the Tel Aviv District Psychiatrist. In this, Kanner proved that the district psychiatrist was not conducting the necessary tests before ordering forced hospitalization. Following a series of articles published on the subject, an investigation committee was set up by the Ministry of Health, and some of the legal requirements relating to forced hospitalization were changed.\n\nHis journalistic approach aroused controversy over the extent of the journalist's proper involvement in the subject of his investigation, as well as ethical questions related to the legitimacy of impersonation and misrepresentation of the authorities in order to expose information of public importance.\n\nKanner advocates promoting a tolerant society through a long and meaningful acquaintance with the other.  The Hinam Center that he founded applies this approach through in-depth journeys into the Israeli society where participants live \"the lives of others\" and spend extended periods of time  in various communities in Israeli society (ultra-Orthodox, Arabs, settlers, Ethiopians, etc.).\n\nIn 2016, President Reuven Rivlin met members of one of the Hinam Center’s groups after they completeda four-month journey between communities in Israel. The President noted that this is the way to truly recognize Israeli society in all its forms.\n\n"}
{"id": "152860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152860", "title": "Zsa Zsa Gabor", "text": "Zsa Zsa Gabor\n\nZsa Zsa Gabor ( ; ; born Sári Gábor ; February 6, 1917 – December 18, 2016) was a Hungarian-American actress and socialite. Her sisters were actresses Eva and Magda Gabor.\n\nGabor began her stage career in Vienna and was crowned Miss Hungary in 1936. She emigrated from Hungary to the United States in 1941. Becoming a sought-after actress with \"European flair and style\", she was considered to have a personality that \"exuded charm and grace\". Her first film role was a supporting role in \"Lovely to Look At\". She later acted in \"We're Not Married!\" and played one of her few leading roles in the John Huston-directed film, \"Moulin Rouge\" (1952). Huston would later describe her as a \"creditable\" actress.\n\nOutside her acting career, Gabor was known for her extravagant Hollywood lifestyle, her glamorous personality, and her many marriages. In total, Gabor had nine husbands, including hotel magnate Conrad Hilton and actor George Sanders. She once stated, \"Men have always liked me and I have always liked men. But I like a mannish man, a man who knows how to talk to and treat a woman—not just a man with muscles.\"\n\nZsa Zsa Gabor was born Sári Gábor on February 6, 1917 in Budapest, Hungary, then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. The middle of three daughters, her parents were Vilmos, a soldier, and Jolie Gabor (née Janka Tilleman). Her parents were both of Jewish ancestry. While her mother escaped Hungary during the same time period of the Nazi occupation of Budapest, Gabor left the country in 1941, three years prior to the takeover.\n\nGabor's elder sister, Magda, eventually became an American socialite and her younger sister, Eva, became an American actress and businesswoman. The Gabor sisters were first cousins of Annette Lantos, wife of California Congressman Tom Lantos (D-CA).\n\nAccording to Gabor, she was discovered by operatic tenor Richard Tauber on a trip to Vienna in 1934, following her time as a student at a Swiss boarding school. Tauber invited Gabor to sing the soubrette role in his new operetta, \"Der singende Traum\" (\"The Singing Dream\"), at the Theater an der Wien. This would mark her first stage appearance. In 1936, she was crowned Miss Hungary.\n\nIn 1944, she co-wrote a novel with writer Victoria Wolf entitled \"Every Man For Himself\". According to Gabor, the fictional story was derived, in a small part, from Gabor's life experiences. The book was subsequently bought by an American magazine. In 1949, Gabor declined an offer to play the leading role in a film version of the classic book \"Lady Chatterley's Lover\". According to an article written the Cedar Rapids Gazette in 1949, she turned down the role of Lady Chatterley due to the story's controversial theme.\n\nHer more serious film acting credits include \"Moulin Rouge\", \"Lovely to Look At\" and \"We're Not Married!\", all from 1952, and 1953’s \"Lili\". In 1958, she ran the gamut of moviemaking, from \"Touch of Evil\" (1958) to the camp oddity \"Queen of Outer Space\" (1958). Later, she appeared in such films as \"Won Ton Ton, the Dog Who Saved Hollywood\" (1976) and \"Frankenstein's Great Aunt Tillie\" (1984). She did cameos for \"\" (1987), \"The Beverly Hillbillies\" (1993) and \"A Very Brady Sequel\" (1996) and voiced a character in the animated \"Happily Ever After\" (1990).\n\nShe was also a regular guest on television shows, appearing with Milton Berle, Jack Paar, Johnny Carson, Howard Stern, David Frost, Arsenio Hall, Phil Donahue, and Joan Rivers. She was a guest on the Bob Hope specials, the Dean Martin Roasts, \"Hollywood Squares\", \"Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In\", and \"It's Garry Shandling's Show\". In 1968, she appeared in the role of Minerva on an episode of \"Batman\", becoming the show's final \"special guest villain\" when it was cancelled soon after. She appeared on the \"Late Night\" show where she told host David Letterman about her blind date with Henry Kissinger, which was arranged by Richard Nixon.\n\nAuthor Gerold Frank, who helped Gabor write her autobiography in 1960, described his impressions of her:Zsa Zsa is unique. She's a woman from the court of Louis XV who has somehow managed to live in the 20th century, undamaged by the PTA ... She says she wants to be all the Pompadours and Du Barrys of history rolled into one, but she also says, \"I always goof. I pay all my own bills. ... I want to choose the man. I do not permit men to choose me.\"\n\nIn his autobiography, television host Merv Griffin, who was known to spend time with Gabor's younger sister Eva socially, wrote of the Gabor sisters' initial presence in New York and Hollywood: \"All these years later, it's hard to describe the phenomenon of the three glamorous Gabor girls and their ubiquitous mother. They burst onto the society pages and into the gossip columns so suddenly, and with such force, it was as if they'd been dropped out of the sky.\"\n\nIn 1973 she was the guest roastee on the \"Dean Martin Roast\" show, and in 1998, film historian Neal Gabler called her kind of celebrity \"The Zsa Zsa Factor\".\n\nGabor was married nine times. She was divorced seven times, and one marriage was annulled. \"All in all — I love being married\", she wrote in her autobiography. \"I love the companionship, I love cooking for a man (simple things like chicken soup and my special Dracula's goulash from Hungary), and spending all my time with a man. Of course I love being in love — but it is marriage that really fulfills me. But not in every case.\" Her husbands, in chronological order, were:\nGabor's divorces inspired her to make numerous quotable puns and innuendos about her marital (and extramarital) history. She commented: \"I am a marvelous housekeeper: Every time I leave a man I keep his house.\" Gabor later claimed to have had a sexual encounter with her stepson, Nicky.\n\nIn 1970, Gabor purchased a nearly 9,000-square-foot Hollywood Regency-style home in Bel Air, which once belonged to Elvis Presley, and where the Beatles visited him in 1965. It was originally built by Howard Hughes and featured a unique-looking French style roof.\n\nGabor's only child, daughter Constance Francesca Hilton, was born on March 10, 1947. According to Gabor's 1991 autobiography \"One Lifetime Is Not Enough\", her pregnancy resulted from rape by then-husband Conrad Hilton. She was the only Gabor sister who had a child. In 2005, a lawsuit was filed accusing her daughter of larceny and fraud, alleging that she had forged her signature to get a US$2 million loan on her mother's Bel Air house. However, the Los Angeles County Superior Court, Santa Monica, threw out the case due to Gabor's failure to appear in court or to sign an affidavit that she indeed was a co-plaintiff on the original lawsuit filed by her husband, Frédéric von Anhalt. Francesca Hilton died in 2015 at the age of 67 from a stroke. Gabor's husband never told her about her daughter's death, out of concern for her physical and emotional state.\n\nGabor and her last husband, Frédéric Prinz von Anhalt, adopted at least ten adult males who paid them a fee of up to $2,000,000 to become descendants by adoption of Princess Marie-Auguste of Anhalt. Prinz von Anhalt had paid Marie-Auguste to adopt him when he was 36 years old.\n\nOn June 14, 1989, in Beverly Hills, California, Gabor was accused of slapping the face of Beverly Hills police officer Paul Kramer when he stopped her for a traffic violation at 8551 Olympic Boulevard. At trial three months later, a jury convicted her of slapping Kramer. They also found her guilty of driving without a license and possessing an open container of alcohol — a flask of Jack Daniel's — in her $215,000 Rolls-Royce, but acquitted her of the charge of disobeying Kramer when she drove away from the traffic stop. On October 25, 1989, Beverly Hills Municipal Judge Charles G. Rubin sentenced Gabor to serve three days in jail, to pay fines and restitution totaling $12,937, to perform 120 hours of community service, and to undergo a psychiatric evaluation. On June 14, 1990, Gabor dropped her conviction appeal and agreed to serve her sentence. However, she refused to take part in community service and served three days in jail from July 27 to July 30, 1990.\n\nGabor had a long-running feud with German-born actress Elke Sommer that began in 1984 when both appeared on \"Circus of the Stars\" and escalated into a multimillion-dollar libel suit by 1993. The suit resulted in an order for Gabor and her husband to pay Sommer $3.3 million in general and punitive damages.\n\nOn January 25, 2009, the Associated Press reported that her attorney stated that forensic accountants determined that Gabor may have lost as much as $10 million invested in Bernie Madoff's company, possibly through a third-party money manager.\n\nOn November 27, 2002, Gabor was a front seat passenger in an automobile crash on Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, from which she remained partially paralyzed and reliant on a wheelchair for mobility. She survived strokes in 2005 and 2007 and underwent surgeries. In 2010, she fractured her hip and underwent a successful hip replacement.\n\nIn August 2010, Gabor was admitted to Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center in serious condition and received last rites from a Catholic priest.\n\nIn 2011, her right leg was amputated above the knee to save her life from an infection. She was hospitalized again in 2011 for a number of emergencies.\n\nOn February 8, 2016, two days after her 99th birthday, Gabor was rushed to hospital after suffering from breathing difficulties. She was diagnosed with a feeding tube-related lung infection and was scheduled to undergo surgery to have her feeding tube removed.\n\nIn April 2016, Gabor expressed her wish to move back to Hungary in 2017 and live out the rest of her life there. Her husband stated that he was determined to make her wish come true and he intended to arrange for \"a big party in the summer\" to celebrate the actress' 100th birthday, after which she would return to Budapest.\n\nGabor died at the age of 99 of cardiac arrest while in a coma at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center on December 18, 2016, fifty days shy of becoming a centenarian. The causes of death were given as \"Cardiopulmonary arrest, Coronary Artery Disease, and Cerebral Vascular Disease\". She had been on life support for the previous five years.\n\nHer funeral was held on December 30 in a Catholic ceremony at the Church of the Good Shepherd in Beverly Hills, where around 100 mourners attended. Her ashes, placed in a gold rectangular box, were interred at the Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery.\n\nAdditional source: \"TV Guide\"\nGabor occasionally appeared in theatre. From 1961 to 1970, she portrayed Elvira in national tours of \"Blithe Spirit\". In 1970, she made her Broadway debut in \"Forty Carats\".\n\nFrom 1971 to 1983, Gabor appeared in national tours of \"Forty Carats\", \"Bell, Book and Candle\", \"Blithe Spirit\", \"Arsenic and Old Lace\" (with her sister, Eva), \"Finders Will Return\", and \"Ninotchka\". Finally, in 1993, she portrayed the Fairy Godmother in UCLA's staging of \"Cinderella\".\n\n\n"}
